- As a player, to be honest, I didn't know what being Being a dad, yeah it's cool, right? It was real cool, you know? &quot;All right, I'll see &quot;Hey&quot;, wave to you a couple times. By the time I get home, you asleep. By the time you wake up, I'm gone, right? You know, that's really the NBA father. We wasn't really... - Yeah, you miss a lot. - We miss a lot and we're there, right? What's so funny is that we're the ones in the household that's messing up things. - Real talk. They have their schooling, they're on a program. - We've been on the road 12 days, we're the ones- their routine. fucking up their routine. Nah, we're gonna go get right now, 11:00 PM. They're like, &quot;Nah, he got &quot;Ah, all that school shit.&quot; But we're the ones that they're like, &quot;Oh, can you go back on the road?&quot; - And that's us being a good dad. Literally, like he said, they they're in bed by 9:00. - And the player, we mess it up, so- - We're fucking all that up. - When I was- - Yep. &quot;I'm home, hey everybody, wake up.&quot; &quot;Hey, Daddy here.&quot; - &quot;Oh man, how was school?&quot; They like... - Three in the morning. Dad here? You here? - [Gilbert] Yeah, yeah. You're taking me to school? No? - No, they be like, no, &quot;Are &quot;Nope. I'm a-be asleep.&quot; - [Iman] Welcome to season The show that takes an honest look at what it is to be a - [Ahrii] We don't shy away from topics most people are too afraid to talk about. We gon' take it all the way there. - [Iman] It's season two, y'all. (whispers) - [Iman] Welcome to &quot;Iman Amongst Men&quot;, presented to you by Uninterrupted. I am your host, Iman Shumpert, here with my big brother Ahrii. Ahrii, gon' and give - What's going on, people? Today, we got another special guest. Ha-ha. - Let's bring it. - We got three-time All-Star, - Turned world-famous podcaster. Give it up for Gilbert Arenas. - One time. - Thanks for coming through, man. - Y'all listen, y'all You don't need the extra. Y'all got a whole crowd back here. Just get, get 'em working. Everybody clap. On three. - Ay, get ready. You better get ready. We got some shit this year now. We got some shit coming. - The theme of today's show is When you hear that, Agent - Besides Drake? Turning up! Quick turn up. - You know what I mean? Like, you know, it started off as nice and it got real ugly. Real quick. - Real tough. Real tough. When you think about &quot;zero to a hundred&quot;, and you think about some of those, those times in your career where you scored in bunches, you scored in a hurry. That long bout you did where it was even the shooting the and just, you know, we could always, we could tell when somebody's it's a different shot going up. When you're in these moments what are you thinking? - You're not. Right? Everything's, the game's moving fast, but for you, it's moving slow. - [Iman] Mm-hmm. Everyday, it's like in the streets, right? All the lights is green. - And you just moving through it. Right? And that's what it feels You know, when in the game after buckets, that rim... - That rim is big. Like, you know what I mean? So you know, that's what it feels like. It just feels like you just Coffee's tasting exactly Fit nice. You know? - Oh, it looks like that? - Okay. - Fit nice, you know what I mean? Like, oh yeah. - Go outside, perfect Full gas. Right? Full gas, you don't but it's filled. - Straight up. - It's just all the way. - Just got all, your jam's on like, &quot;Yeah, all right.&quot; - Yeah. That's that locked in feeling. The times that I felt like, you know, I'm locked in, my times is like, when I always felt like, especially when running through the East when we was in Cleveland, once we understood how to turn it on, how to beat somebody four times. I'll never forget that feeling of like, &quot;Okay, I get it now.&quot; Like I get why they saying, the little games within the game, or understanding that the whole playbook is out the window after 'cause we all know the plays. We don't even have to practice no more. Like we know them, we locked in. Being in those moments. Now that you say that, with, like, the green lights. My favorite part is the and if I could piggy off that, it's like the green lights, but then it's like green lights and then looking out the window and seeing somebody stand They standing up though You like, &quot;Wow, that's raw as hell. He ain't gonna fall?&quot; Like, &quot;Wow.&quot; Like seeing somebody in Always used to, like, catch my attention, like we so locked in and we playing great basketball, and then somebody do something. We be like, &quot;Bro, you What make you do that?&quot; What tells you in your mind I'm finna turn around? - The confidence. Right? In the moment. At that point, you know the last three, four minutes, me and, was it Okur? - Yeah. Trading buckets. - Buckets. Like boom, big shot, big shot. We was like, he hit a three, I'll come down, hit a three. He hit a three. I got three free throws. He hit a three. I got a three. Right, he hit a layup, I got a layup. Like we was literally - [Iman] Right. So it was one of those things where that we in that moment, like, there's nothing, nothing we're doing is stopping him. There's nothing... - [Iman] Right. Right? And I'm the one - Right? - Right? You just tied it. You just tied it. And I got the ball at - It's on me. - I could really do whatever I want. - Right? That's why I shot it. Oh, Saturday, go home. Big, it was... - So nothing in that &quot;Let me just make sure I lock in, land it, stick it and Like you ain't... It was like it was gone, - Yeah, you know when you feel it, you can feel, like it... - I feel it, but... - None of that feels like, &quot;I'm a-turn and just send - Nah, when it come off your hand around, all I just need is that... There we go. I felt it. Yeah, it's happening. - It's wild. - Did you ever get approached - Nah. Nah. One because you know, Only if you said - Exactly. - If you was weak? If you was weak,... - [Iman] You playing? to convince you to turn up. Like, I like, for me to be... for me to tap into my greatness, I need you to tap into yours. - That's the Draymond. - Right? So my thing is, &quot;Hey, man, or what are you here for?&quot; Right? What you here for? - [Iman] Piss somebody off. - 'Cause, you know, Sit him out, man, if he ain't gonna try to - That's the only way. - And get him, get him pit. Yeah. There we go. Oh yeah, there we go. Nice little, nice little here. That's what I'm talking about, so I can try to tap into - [Iman] Right. 'Cause the only way I can really know what I'm doing or not doing... - Is to take some shit away. - You gotta, you gotta - Nah, you wasn't gonna let me take that. You ain't taking that away. - You ain't taking that way. You ain't taking that way. - Press me. Press me, but yeah, cause I'm a-aim just like you. I'm gonna, I'm gonna adapt. - I ain't gonna lie though. It would've been a different clip if you did that while I was a guard. Like, especially if I 'cause I think my natural to turn around and see if it went in and then after seeing the replay, I'd have been like, &quot;This turned his back and walked off? Start talking to people? He ain't looked back to make sure he just waited on the crowd? That's some of the most put-together shit that - It just like little Like, they were throwing everything, - Now I gotta go watch - Like Deron Williams? you in foul trouble, sit on the bench. Right? I'm talking my boy D. Brown, you know, I had Lil D Brown over there. - [Ahrii] Yeah. - And then they got Kirilenko on me, and I'm telling D, &quot;They ain't got it, this is nothing.&quot; They had Brewer on me. - Nothing. It's like, I'm just talking, like, 'cause you know D. - [Iman] Straight up. So that was my guy. So I'm just sitting there - Amping each other up. - Just amping. - Yeah. He probably ain't even I wouldn't have amped your ass up. I'd have told his ass to Give dude that tap like, Oh, bro, I think Melo did that to me once. I can't remember who start cooking, but he hit me like, &quot;Hey, man, like unless you finna...&quot; - Yeah, yeah. - Unless you finna deny like, you gotta chill, like I ain't trying to I think it was Al - Oh yeah. - I think I got into it with Al. We was talking trash to Al and he, he called me a young pup or something, scored like six straight. They called a timeout. I get to yelling at people, yelling at Stat or somebody, like, going in like, &quot;Melo, hey, man, he doing that 'cause you doing all - Hey, 'cause it's like... - Shut the fuck up, yeah, You better be cool, like... - Man, that's just certain They thrive on that trash, right? It's just that... - Real talk, though. - That trash talk, yeah! - It make them, it make them think you up! - Yeah, like Kobe? Oh, Kobe! Oh, Oh yeah! I was trying to wake - Now I'm a-lock in. - Now I can see you. - Now you got 25 straight, and you're like, &quot;Ah&quot;. &quot;Man, I should have just shut up.&quot; &quot;I should have just shut up.&quot; - How do you go from - I'll say, you know, probably the gun incident, You know when, when you reflect back on, you know, on your situation and it's the personality, right? And people say, &quot;Yeah, you And I say, &quot;yeah&quot;. In theory, in that moment, I can't say I would because If someone challenges, you gonna take the challenge every single time. That's what makes you who you are. - [Iman] Right. If Kobe say &quot;No, you can't stop me.&quot; Bet. You know what I mean? Bet Jordan? Bet. Listen, you gonna take the challenge. So me, I had to figure out how to like, I can't be half and half, so I either gotta be So that's when I left Washington, I was like, &quot;I can't be So I'm one, I'm Penny, I'm gonna take on Penny's And then that's how it was. So, once my career was over with, and social media popped off, you know, me and the BM going at it, and you know me, I'm taking it personal in a stance where you You ain't even killing me right. Well, you- I can do, I can kill me Now, I'm no, you know, Let me show you how to- let me show you how to do me like this. And that's when I just said, &quot;All right, I'm just gonna piss everybody off.&quot; So if I piss everybody off, you gots no ammo against me. 'Cause they already, you know what I mean? And that's how it was. That's where No Chill came from. You did the Marshall Mathers. - Yeah. - Eight mile. Yeah, yeah. I'm-a, I'm a-kill me better. I can do it in a better fashion. And that's what it was. And then it just became No Chill. - [Iman] No Chill. - Damn, dawg. That happened fast too. It did. It's crazy 'cause I low key thought it was, I thought it was- Like 'cause I, you know what I'm saying? I had met y'all in a good space. So I'm like, when it happened, at first I was laughing, thinking it was like gonna wear off. Like we can go back to this girl. Like niggas being funny damn near and, like it's gone, then it start getting descriptive I'm short, like, but now it makes sense. You really was trying - She wasn't doing it right? - You ain't doing it right. I'm-a think that now, every - I always felt that way about people making something. God, I'm like, &quot;Bro, it's tough making something a game with somebody that play Like no matter what his sport is, he's down, like he don't even realize it. He gonna be down to play the game. And like you said, that's crazy. Like you, you make mistakes But that's such a crazy thing to say, what you said, you would've - Yeah. - Like it's sick. You could be like, &quot;I know myself in that moment.&quot; I literally only know not to take the challenge - Yeah. It's like... - But, if I don't have no reference of what happens when I'm gonna think I'm-a win. - Right, it's the same thing. It's because that's who we are. - That's insane though, but that's actually like a That's because everybody &quot;Oh, I'd go back and change that.&quot; - Yeah. Yeah. It sounds cool. Yeah, yeah. Look, I wanna be- listen, I want to be like, &quot;Yeah, yeah. I would never do that again.&quot; - [Iman] Right. Listen, I can tell you - [Iman] Straight up. - But at the end of the On the court, off the court. So if you're telling me, &quot;Yo, Kobe's challenging, And I'll be like &quot;Nah&quot;, and it's gonna work the same way. - [Iman] Right. So it really was just a hard job, a fight that went too a little far. - It wasn't even a fight, it ain't had nothing to do with me. I just accept it. You gonna do this, bet. I gotta see it. Right? - You gotta do it better. - You know when you get- You know when you get I'm just being dickhead. - [Iman] What it is, what it is? - It's just a dickhead. I'm just being a dickhead. - [Iman] It had nothing to do with you? - No, not really. No. - What? Hey, listen, you've been on a plane, you know when you see them, you see people losing money. - [Iman] Yeah. - And you start talking at? I was him. - Copy, copy, okay, you was instigated on. - I was instigated on. - Okay, okay, okay. - And end up turning. - That makes sense. - And I was like, &quot;Dawg, there was no way they was just arguing, you just butt in in the locker room, then pulled up the next day, like, &quot;Yeah.&quot; - I just, I'm just instigating shit. Just being an asshole. That's it. - You gotta love somebody - And that's what our argument- what's so funny, that's what our argument was after it all. Like, dawg, you over here, like 'cause you know he's still trying to make a name for his and you over here Big they think I'm sweet. I'm like, &quot;I get it, I get it. My bad, my bad.&quot; - That makes sense, like, &quot;Yeah&quot;. - Obviously, you trying to still establish yourself, and I'm over here trying to trump him. He ain't gonna do shit. - Copy. - Copy, he like, &quot;That's the only thing I - Yes. - Are you killing me. - He be like, &quot;Yeah, I You ain't slapping nobody, like Like, nah, my bad. - Everything he do, he just- - I'm over here. - Just take the challenge. Like I'll take the challenge. - Oh, but he's stepping on them. He not even meeting him there, - You trying to get his respect. - Yeah, you got this. - Yeah, that's my rook, and I'm forgetting that he has to go through the process of &quot;Let them know, like, yo, I'm a man too. and because he's my you can't do that, right? And that, that was- so we sitting in jacuzzi Man, why you just gotta keep? Come on, man, let me, let me live.&quot; Like, yeah, yeah. You right. My bad, know what I'm saying? - Well, you talk the world of media. You talk this podcast and stuff. You talk conversation. Do you think that there's anybody that's gonna keep it as real as you? - Yeah, of course. But they have to understand though that you gonna get hit, hard. - Straight up. - [Gilbert] But- - For letting it fly. - Yeah. You guys gotta keep going. Ain't no... There, there comes a... Listen, there comes a time where - [Iman] Yeah. - Now what, what you gonna do? Right? If women, the LGBT, come on? What's happening, what y'all do? I'm-a double down and triple down. - We don't need you to double down. - [Gilbert] But that's what I'm saying. - So we don't need you around. - No, no. I know. - We don't have no issue with them. Don't make one. - No, no, no, no. I'm just saying. But I, I say something, if you You say something else, I triple down. I can keep getting worse, I'm not gonna break, but you going to have to go through that. See, we're so, you know, - And you wanna know what's wild? That's actually something that doesn't get talked about at all. - Excuse me. - There's never really a or understanding part. - Mm-hmm. - Like say somebody says something, like say somebody says whether it's race, sexuality, religion, whatever it is that people feel like you can't cross this line, when somebody says whatever they say, it's like those people will, everybody will just go crazy on them. - Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. And then it's like if that person stands and says, &quot;Nah, I can This is why I said it. I wasn't trying to be mean at all,&quot; but they not really given an apology 'cause they like, &quot;I kind like &quot;I said what I said&quot; or &quot;I feel the way I feel about that&quot;, but I don't have an issue But then they kind of make them redact the statement, almost like. - Yep, mm-hmm. - They kind of make you apologize and take your statement back. And then it's like, so now what? It feels like you lose, And that's a weird feeling, 'cause it's like, &quot;What happened?&quot; Why can't the other side also be like, &quot;You know what, &quot;We apologize for jumping down your throat 'cause I could understand why you would say that and Like nobody ever understands that it is not offensive on the other side when it's just like a regular comment. It's just crazy that he said that. I never really thought - But, once you know on the other side... - [Iman] Yeah. what are you apologizing for, because at the end of the day, as soon as you apologize, they got you. Blocked, we got you to apologize, and we're never gonna forgive you. We're never gonna forgive you. And then you're sitting there like, so if I'm gonna apologize, it's gonna be three, four years later when you forgot about it. - What's wrong with this man? - Right? Just come out of the - He got the best intentions. - Just, just come out of the blue. Like even, if like- - A raw delivery. - No, no, no, serious, like I read, you know, how be sleeping, read something, and then, in your head, like, &quot;Oh, this is what y'all on? Alright, bet.&quot; And then get the going. - And then when you you're like... - [Iman] Oh, I ain't - Oh, I read this wrong. Goddammit! - [Ahrii] You read it wrong. - Real talk, but it don't - Now as I said, &quot;I Oh, man. - Oh well. - And then you be like, &quot;Eh, &quot;They're not going-&quot; Hey, listen, &quot;they don't &quot;Might as well just keep going.&quot; And then like, I know I did wrong. - But I can't cave, I'm still a man. - But I can't cave, so, I just keep going, then I'd be like, &quot;You I gotta apologize in a few years. And then, and that's- - That's- - That's what I did with Lupita. - Oh, what you do? - What did you have an issue with Lupita? - I didn't, listen, I didn't I didn't even know her. - Listen! - Didn't know her, right? I'm sitting there waking - What you do, man? - It said, listen, it was like, it was one of them African, you know, one of them African- Pages, right? And it said, it actually said you don't have to be mixed I don't know what I read. I read like, if you mixed you ain't cute. I don't know what my brain Oh, this what y'all are on? Oh, bet. So I was like, &quot;Oh, let me see who the most beautiful African people are. Oh, she ain't that cute. Oh, we got better than this. All right, bet.&quot; So I start off, &quot;So, this is y'all queen? She got nothing on blah-blah-blah-blah.&quot; And I'm going, &quot;I got two daughters that's dark and they mixed. You saying they ain't cute?&quot; And I'm just running down. And then when I reread it, like... (Gilbert hisses) - Oh, we was talking about the same thing. Ooh, dang, I done fucked this one up. Yeah, I can't go back now though. - He made a mistake. - He had a whole argument. - [Iman] A whole argument. - But just couldn't back down. - And then, went and finally - I was, yeah, I already - But that still didn't stop him because he had to keep going. - [Gilbert] That's what I said. - You gotta take the challenge, - That's what I said, &quot;Man, I just threw this Didn't even know who she was. - If y'all don't know, man, it's the part of &quot;Iman Amongst Men&quot;, where we're finding out, niggas just wanna play y'all 1-on-1. - [Gilbert] All right. - If Gil ever have an issue with y'all, if you think it's an issue, come play free throw contest, man. Nip that shit in the bud dawg. - Or just wait three or four years. - And you didn't apologize. - [Gilbert] But that's what I said. I had to wait for, listen, I had to, I was like, because I already messed up, I was like, I just gotta take the hit. There's nothing I can do. - Oh yeah, you don't like - Yeah, yeah. So I just take the hit. Whatever y'all gonna do, cancel me. Whatever, just do it. All right. I'll bounce. I'll bounce back, I'll bounce back. - But it wasn't even that bad, Like you just can't get through with it? - I just feel like you coulda I feel like that take &quot;Yo, Lupita, my bad.&quot; - My bad. - I low key might be tweaking. I was dyslexic this morning. I replaced the- I don't know what I did. I apologize. - [Gilbert] 'Cause they be &quot;Yeah, you wanna apologize Nah, you're not gonna hit me with that. - And then you say that. &quot;Maybe, and I want to get my apology out there now 'cause it's light. - [Gilbert] I just, yeah. - And maybe now I get to meet Lupita. - [Gilbert] Yeah. I just- - That's what you be I've noticed something. I noticed one thing about social media. - Hey, go ahead and say it. - If you do fuck up, you might as well have that conversation with whoever on the other Because if you ever said it's like, bro, some of these people: one, none that I tweet should He live out here. I live in Georgia. We from two different areas, like we really shouldn't be seeing each other's thoughts that - [Gilbert] Facts. - These is barbershop thoughts. - [Gilbert] Mm-hmm. shouldn't read each other's shit unless we at the same barbershop. Everybody in my barbershop Everything in his barbershop The only argument is fucking- - Detail, the details. - How, yeah, did Kobe do better - Yes. The details. Yeah, it's just the details. Yeah. - And we over here talking about &quot;Is Mike that good without - [Gilbert] Yeah. that's they argument. But it's like, my nigga, our So when I do see Moz get one, I'm knowing bro, we probably got more common ground than the 2 million people that's now commenting in between our shit. - Mm-hmm. could understand each other way better. So I pissed you off through what everybody said and how this got pushed around. And then it's like, but now I get to talk to Gilbert, if I don't know him, and it's like, let's have a conversation. We have a conversation. We may end up cool. We may end up saying, you know what, &quot;How we can fix this, we'll do something, put together something blah-blah-blah. But now we could do something because we low key just raised awareness for a problem we didn't even know we had. But everybody don't know how - Making something out of nothing. - Yeah, I didn't know was pissing everybody off. Like that's the type of shit. That's the type of shit that'd be the argument though. It be like, &quot;He wore black Like what? That'd be the argument though, like- - But he not built that way. His competition level is good. - But, what I'm saying, if it becomes a one-on-one situation where he can have a conversation 'cause the man can articulate himself. - Oh yeah. Of course, but - Yeah, but that's doesn't, no, no, no. The public- - Three, four years later on the Internet. - On the Internet. - Like I know I done messed up, so... - Yeah. Internet, get your Internet rules. - Listen, I was like, &quot;Man, I done bought her book. Lemme go ahead and buy her book. I'm-a go ahead and support.&quot; - [Iman] Real talk. you gonna get that like - Oh, you're gonna - Two different people. - Chill Gil and Agent Zero! - Agent Zero still there, right? - He's still there. Now, and here's why: a real apology is though, is really understanding Right? Changing the behavior, and And then you can apologize. - Wait! - He basically said, - No, like no, if I said it right then I don't mean that shit. I just said it. - But for me to really, - You wanna to be authentic. - Yeah, for me to really I have to change the behavior. - An apology and a sorry don't do it. - Yeah, like I can't do that right now. The guy, I really have change my behavior period. Once I change my behavior period, never do it again because, you know what I mean? - Did that take three to four years gas? - Nah, facts. It might take a little It ain't gonna take three- - Give yourself room. - It ain't gonna take no three months. - You give yourself room, but then if it happened in six months, it's like, &quot;I was quick.&quot; - I was, yeah. Yeah, man, you know. I can, come on, like if I and then I'm marbling, Y'all know I'm lying. - A hundred percent. A hundred percent. Shout - Really. - It depends. - A hundred percent though. - Lying, I'm lying. - I feel that, I feel that. Everybody's talking about How do you think fans have changed? - Fans? - They are expecting- they are expecting greatness before the development, right? They're not allowing, fans and media, they're not allowing the build. You're not letting, like you want Michael Jordan, six rings. - Straight up. Immediate. You don't want the beginning of a guy trying to work and and tap into his... You want instant, like we're trading young &quot;Oh yeah, we're done with him.&quot; - [Iman] Straight up. - You had him at 19, he's 24. He's about to tap into his greatness. - He's about to prime. - Yeah. This is Jordan, year three. Just because he's played seven years, this is Jordan, year three still. And what ends up we're already moving. We're expecting like, &quot;Oh, we need to win We need to do this.&quot; And you're just throwing out the pieces. Just get out, get out, get out, get out. Like, &quot;Ah, he's washed.&quot; - Yeah. - I'd always, always would hear that. - It's crazy! - Yeah. - It's just because they know now, like we got so many once they minimize a role, I feel like the roles have been minimized as far as like, just a mid-level player play a certain amount of minutes. Like they overload their They overload the stars with those shots. So if you don't have a lot like I feel like the fans just forgot to be on those players. Like, we was like, &quot;Man, shit, fuck the rest of them.&quot; And then it got younger to the point where niggas was like, &quot;Oh, if you got asked, you like, Like the first time I had to do that, I was like, bro, I don't know if it's 'cause I just wasn't on the team for long enough in the beginning of the but they was... I came with the Nets, they was I'm like, &quot;Bro, who?&quot; I'm like, &quot;What? Who, who is that?&quot; They like, &quot;Oh yeah, they just pulled him up off the G-League, and they got these guys, they playing great out the G-League. And I was like, &quot;Bro, wait, what?&quot; Like, I'm like, &quot;They in rotation?&quot; - [Gilbert] Yeah, they're rotating. - But it's like instant, like- - [Gilbert] Gotta keep team ready. - Yeah, it was like instant. Like they come in, they got minutes. I'm like, &quot;Are they like and then the next year, - [Gilbert] Yep. And it's crazy, 'cause I'm like, I wonder what is damn like, to sit there and say, &quot;Do I like...&quot;, &quot;Which version do you like better?&quot; - And I think that's why Right? They're stuck in eras they They want, I think once we started like making stats... When we started making up new stats, and then we started saying, &quot;Oh, these stats aren't important.&quot; &quot;This ain't a real stat.&quot; &quot;Oh, he average a triple double.&quot; &quot;Oh, he was, you know, padding his stats.&quot; Once that started happening, You're telling me a guy who hasn't done something in 40, 30, 40 years, he's pad statting. No one, no other player When he does it, &quot;Ah, he just...he's going, he's hustling. He's going to get his rebounds.&quot; - So? to go and get his rebounds. &quot;Oh, look, he has a layup, but he's giving it right What the fuck did Magic Johnson do? You think that the assist leader wasn't trying to be the assist leader? You think he had a wide open layup? He'd rather pass it to this three for this guy to hit a shot. Like he got 15,000 for a reason. Magic Johnson was making- That's not padding your stats. It's fucking basketball. - [Iman] Straight up. - So, once they made that what does fans- fans don't look at the game the same. - I swear to God I hate what is being done. I be like, &quot;Don't you Like, &quot;Why didn't you just-&quot;. It'd be like, &quot;Bro, you don't, you not watching the game? You not watching the game? Like none of y'all know - It's perspective. It's also perspective. - They're listening. They're listening. They're listening to someone who's never played the game. They never played the- like, watching the game and you're watching it, and you've been watching it for years. That's what's up. That's cool. I like it, I love it. - [Iman] That's what's up. - But if you never, and it's easy for you to be like, &quot;Oh yeah, That's easy. Listen, that sounds cute. - [Iman] Really does. - But unless you're in you've been through those situations, you really don't know what you're... you really don't know what it is. Right? That's the player. So, sometimes, when you say something, when they say something it's like, &quot;What are y'all talking about?&quot; - Real talk. - Like what are y'all talking about? - They'll be like, &quot;Nah, Like what is he doing right there? I'm not sure why you would, you would never shoot a shot like that.&quot; And it'll take like a &quot;I don't see a problem with the shot.&quot; Be like, that's his role. That's what he does. - That's what he's supposed to do. He's not in the game to do anything else. He shoots that shot. Now this man cannot cheat that cut. - [Gilbert] Yep. - Yeah, but that's perspective, right?. Fans don't see the game from... - [Gilbert] The players. - Like really, not just a Most fans don't know what that's like to see like, the height - Yeah, they don't look - Change of speed too. - Like a whole look to them. It's like, &quot;Can't you It's like, nah. To us we see arms, legs, if people could dunk, he could fly. - We got fast twitch until I decide to throw it. They be like, &quot;Ha-ha, nice try.&quot; - That's really crazy. - Somebody like, you you be like, &quot;Bro, you could just get up on, like no you can't just get up on him. Like I can't get any closer Like you saw the screen coming. No I didn't, 'cause if I turn my head, he's gonna turn it down. - [Gilbert] Yes. I'm-a look crazy and I'm - You get a bop, and you - Real talk. - I got a guy hit with a Jamal Crawford. - Real talk. It's gonna be duh-duh-duh. So yeah, stay y'all ass at home. - But that comes from the media too. Like, you know what I mean? You have guys who haven't played the game or who's, they're outdated. - [Iman] That, too. - Right? Some guys are just outdated. Like this is just not their game anymore. This is a new game. - Straight up. - Speaking new terms. - And you know, you got these guys saying, &quot;Oh, this is a horrible shot.&quot; Yeah, back then. Back then when y'all was shooting, you know, two threes, 10 threes a game. Yeah, now it's 40 threes, so someone gotta take them. Don't know, I mean- - If you don't get enough of 'em up, you can't win this game. - [Gilbert] Yeah. - You just not gonna win this game. - And these, you know, some of the. - That's what's scary! That's what's scary It's like, it's tough like Miami, watching Miami try and If you can't respond to that like, it'll kill you. Like your whole shit will be robbed from you all because y'all So it's like I get what you're saying when it's like, bro, maybe back then. - Yeah, that's even, even- - Whether it's a bad shot or not, it's a better attempt that'll win now. Might as well get them up. - I said it, I said Miami, Boston. Right, I said these are D-league teams. They, they, they terrible. - [Iman] Yeah. - And I don't want y'all to, I don't want y'all to be lied to, thinking this team is good. They're shit. They are. You got, you got, let's just, like when I said, I said you got Jimmy and Bam, right? And Ben, you have Vincent. He ain't gonna start, he - No, he ain't gonna start nowhere, but he can play well. - Cool, but he's not gonna start on any other team. - Gotcha. - Now, you have Caleb, he not gonna start on any other team. - [Iman] Gotcha. - Right, then you got Max, he ain't gonna start on any other team. Now you want them to compete with damn near a all lottery team that's playing harder. - I ain't gonna lie, - [Gilbert] That's - He's actually like low on the totem pole when you go back to that. - Back then, but now he's a two-time MVP. - [Iman] Oh no, he definitely an MVP. - But now, he's a two-time MVP. - He MVP, but I ain't dropped violations, you know what I mean? You been coming with that suit, I see what you got going. - But that's what I'm saying, so you're talking about a group that's, they have all the talent, and they play hard and harder. - [Iman] They play hard as fuck. - So, how are you, what are you guys technically gonna do to keep up and then you coming off the bench with... - Like KCP and Bruce. I keep saying Bruce Bowen. - Like from Florida? I told you Bruce, I - Bruce Brown. - Yeah, Bruce Brown. - Now, this is what I'm saying. Bruce Brown come off the bench. If he was on that team, he'd be starting. - [Iman] A hundred percent. - How you supposed to they bench is better than y'all starters. - Yeah, I never thought - But, what's-his-name was hurt. What's-his-name was hurt. Tyler was hurt. - Yeah. - Vic hurt. - Yeah. So, the guys you have that - So, you didn't like Kyle Lowry? - No, I love Kyle Lowry, but they put my man on the bench. - They did. - Kyle was playing. - But he was playing, but - Kyle was playing. - Yeah, he was playing though. He was definitely playing. - But still, you're trying to tell... You trying to tell me Kyle need to be chasing Jamal Murray, just kick you off the game. Hell, no, he's gonna put out there to chase him around, and Kyle gotta come in again, unless Kyle gonna chase that man, you not finna chase that man. - But that's that problem. - Not that light-skinned man. - But that's, you see how lopsided it was. - That's another light-skinned man, boy. I don't know what they doing with these light-skinned niggas. - These niggas mad, these - But that's why- But that's why I was publicly Like I need y'all to get it in your mind. Stop trying to pretend They don't have no chance. Just get it, I want to tell you the truth. - Bro, the playoffs ain't - [Gilbert] And they, obviously. - They matching up with people. - They had Deandre They could have used it on this side. - I didn't get why they - Because they didn't need him. Jeff Green, y'all could They don't need him. that's how lopsided this is. They have eight people on the team that'd be playing big winners for y'all. - [Iman] Straight up, straight up. - Good luck, good luck. - When you think about it like that, yeah, that's pretty bad. Yeah, they could have just, yeah they could have just gave them Dre. - But that's why I said you know Jimmy has to really like, really go into the summer Like, we won. Like listen, I get it, we lost, we won. What we did was incredible. - Without nothing, now I know - We made a Thanksgiving We fed a whole village. We're, we should be proud of ourselves. We shouldn't be looking at like, &quot;Oh, man we didn't, we No, no, no, no, no. Stop, y'all did, shut up. - [Iman] No, no, they should No, no. They should not have gotten swept. - Huh? NBA helped that. For real. They should have got swept. - No, they laid down a little bit. - [Gilbert] Who? - Jimmy ran out of gas - No, no, no, but... - They wanted that to be over. - Jimmy was go- - They wanted it to be over. - Nah, man, Udonis - Listen. I bet you a thousand dollars that nigga was in that finna beat somebody ass for the lay-down. On bro! - Listen, they got they from first, second, third. - I'm saying they... every other round, they in the eye like &quot;Fuck you.&quot; They look like, &quot;Man, - [Gilbert] They look like, &quot;Hey.&quot; - You're right. - They good, they look good. - Yeah, disciplined, - So? Altitude bad, so? - Hey, I get it. - So you here now, you so we can see a four, two Finals. Straight up. - Boston? - Whoever gonna come in here and not look at them like, &quot;Oh?&quot; - [Gilbert] Yeah. to come in here and look at like you knew... - Oh you're talking - I don't, he said it like they was shy. He said they looked over there, like, &quot;Wow, these niggas is really good.&quot; - They over there looking That's why that first game, zero. - I don't feel like that. I feel like Jimmy, I watched Jimmy run out of gas a little bit. I feel like he, after he was sort of looking like, &quot;Ah?&quot; - He didn't, he, he didn't have nothing. There was nothing he can do. - It was more he could do. - I'm-a tell you why. - I know Jimmy, it was - You sticking, you - Yeah. - Right, you sticking the best player. Pick and roll. - Oh no, they did the right, they did exactly what they supposed to do. He was dead. - Pick and roll. Now you gotta switch on the (Gilbert air punches) - Now let's see you shoot that three. - Now you come on and shoot. Fourth quarter, he's - Trust me, I used to scream - Yeah, yeah. - Go on ahead Steph. You trying to hide? From Kyrie, you trying to hide? 'Cause it's Steph, go guard him. They ain't gonna run no play for me. Who was your role model as a kid? (Gilbert laughing) I used to go, &quot;Man, Steph you know that nigga used to try and hide behind me on the ball screen. Naw, man, you and Kyrie over there, get that shit away from me. Handle your motherfucking Role models as a kid. - Penny Hardaway. So it was Magic, and then Penny Hardaway. - [Iman] Solid. - Me too. I was a Penny guy. - That's 20. I was in high I was, I was 25. So I was 25 in high school And then when Kobe came, you know what I mean? It was something about that, you know, high school, L.A., I remember when I heard like he's at Venice Beach. - Oh, you went and see him? - Oh no. So I heard he He broke his hand. - At Venice Beach? - Yeah, he broke his hand at Venice Beach. - Goddamn, Kobe. - And then I went down there, - No way. - I'm like, Kobe, I'm going to the league. I swear to God that was my... - I'm destined. - I broke my hand and - Real talk. - Going to the league, guaranteed. - Like Kobe, same hand. - It was your shooting hand? Broke my hand at Venice Beach like Kobe. The next day. - [Iman] That's crazy. - [Iman] Oh, it happened the next day. - The next day, broke the hand. &quot;What's happening, y'all&quot;, Kobe 2.0. - [Iman] That's crazy. - He said, 2.0. - You know, in high school, - You told Kobe? Did you ever tell Kobe? - Nah, I never told him. - I had the little bitty fro - That's crazy. Nigga broke his hand to the league for it. - Like, yeah, I broke my shit just like this nigga, last night. - Just off that, just off that. - He broke his last night, broke my shit. - What are the chances, nigga? Taking it back to childhood, being in L.A., give me the experience that helped you the most. - Failing, right? I don't, you know what, I can't even say I I was told exactly the right words that I needed to help me go forward, and a coach by the name of It's easy to say, &quot;Oh, you told an NBA player that?&quot; Nah, I wasn't, I wasn't an NBA player - [Iman] Mm-hmm. You'll never make this varsity team. - What? - The varsity team at the time, right? You had point guard Faheem, dude named Kizzy, dude who tried to go straight I mean these were all super-superstars. - [Iman] Right. - And it's like they were - [Iman] Copy, copy, copy. - You know what I mean? So I'm just... - And they had been playing - Yeah, so they was dominant. Like it was no reason But you know, I ran track, you know, I made the JV team. So I'm like, &quot;Yeah, so what do I gotta do to make the varsity team, you know, after the season?&quot; And he's looking at me like, &quot;Yeah, nah, you'll never make this varsity team.&quot; And just like, I cried. Like never, you know, like You know what I mean? Like maybe you thought like even when I'm a senior? - Right, and he just meant that team. - And then like, all right, nah. So I was tr- Man, I, there ain't no summer, there ain't no nothing. I don't wanna play no I'm just like, &quot;All Don't go home, Adult League. Dad, I need $25 to get I need to pay my fee.&quot; I'm on every Adult League Getting better. - But you was growing up - Eric, coach by the name of Eric Brown, he's at Utah State He is like, &quot;Yo, you should And I lived across the street from Grant, but it's &quot;Ah, that's Grant&quot;, right? So I went out tryouts. I thought it was JV tryouts, it was varsity tryouts. He said, &quot;Yeah, you the And I'm like, &quot;Nah, nah, I gotta tell, I gotta show that coach. I gotta show that coach. I'm gonna make that in four years. I'm gonna be there on He's like, &quot;You can start on our team now and you can play against - Even better. - Right, that sounds better. - Okay, talk to my dad, talk to my dad. He gotta- - Yeah, transfer me out across the street. - Right, 'cause it made sense, like, shit, I live across the street. - And I was, man, listen, the coach, I remember on my first I went to the pre-season Summer league game. I'm playing a dude named Isaiah Thomas who went to Van Nuys Coach took me off and said, Like, &quot;Yeah, I know, I know.&quot; I'm cool. &quot;Hey, I need to get back to the game. I'm having fun. Shit, I'm scoring, I'm having fun on this little varsity thing, shit. He was like, &quot;No, no, no, no, no. Forget the game. You gonna really be NBA You know, if you really &quot;All right, yeah, coach. Cool.&quot; Like cool, that sounds, you know, that sounds amazing, I'm an NBA player. I done been to camps before. I done seen a dude named Carlos Boozer. - Tip top. All of 6'9&quot;, 220, I- Listen, I know the NBA and usually, that ain't it. - He ain't saying that right away. - He opened up the gym He opened the gym at six Lunchtime, nutrition. I was in the gym. We, I didn't know nothing Well I just get him a tape, and I said I need to It'd be a step back. Right? Penny Hardaway did some spin. Kenny Anderson, D Brown, like I need to, can you show me how to do this? And I got a little Jewish, little Jewish coach, don't know nothing. Just this is how we gonna do it, right? Come in lunch. You need to do a hundred of those before you know you And then that's... - He just taught you how to practice. - Just taught me how to practice. - That's insane. - Open the gym. Come in, You don't need to be out - And that's why you- - Saturday, Sunday, come. - That was your gym, right? And this, you like, shit. So you had 24 hour fitness? - Yeah. - All day, anytime I called, - People don't know this. You remember what did I called you when I went to Tech and got the card, the access card to go in? - Dawg, I've called my brother. - You're a kid in the city. - I thought, I'm like, &quot;Bro, I could come up Like I'm talking to him, like hearing the echo of But I'm like, &quot;Bro, ain't nobody in here. Like they don't even be in here.&quot; I'm like, &quot;I got key to the laundry.&quot; I'm like, &quot;They paying I told coach I'll wash the I be talking to the little managers, telling them like, shit, Just leave that shit down. I need to do my clothes. I got class.&quot; I'm like, &quot;I'm gonna be shooting here.&quot; You know what I'm saying? Like if it was some girls, I'll be like, &quot;I don't care. I'll just tell y'all to, Knock, or some shit, like... - Like I'll open it for y'all. - You feel me? I'm like, I'm like, &quot;Dad, they'll probably playing the game I'm like half the time I ain't doing shit. I like being in here 'cause it's free. - Right. - Y'all got Gatorade, I'm like &quot;It's Powerade all in here. You'd give that to a He don't love basketball. You gonna find out right there.&quot; - And that's what they don't do. - Like you gonna find out, right? Give me 24 hour access to a gym and see how much I use that bitch. You gonna have to tell me Like &quot;Hey, bro.&quot; And that's, and I don't think, I think that's the disadvantage that some of these kids have, right? If I'm a college coach, Right, well, NBA we have all access, but college, high school, my players have access to that gym. On bro, to keep them outta trouble. - Trouble too, when they, like when they having They don't want to be at home. - [Ahrii] Get a hundred, get a hundred. - Come on, here. I got the gym open. Come get a hundred, get 200. Right? That take 30 minutes. - You can't sleep at night. Hey coach, can you open the gym? Bam. I have cold, like high school. I'm gonna have cold locks. Hit the lock. Boom gon' on in. - Straight up. Put the balls I'm gonna put a little Ring camera or some shit, so I can watch my players. I'll be able to, &quot;Hey - Tuck that elbow. Yes. - Like why not? - But coaches don't look like- Like even, look, high Oh we can't practice after. You can't practice as a team. - [Iman] Real talk. - [Iman] Real talk. If they want to get- - Three on three, two on two, one on one with some rebounds lifted, that ain't a team. - [Iman] Real talk. they can't get you for that. And first of all, who the fuck at L.A. Unified is coming to your sorry ass school to see if you in there late night? Nobody. I don't know what y'all thinking. Y'all thinking, y'all balling like Sierra Canyon or something. Man, if y'all don't get y'all sorry asses in that gym all hours of the night. - I ain't gonna lie. My high school coaches, they, especially when they realized we wanted, we wanted in like Al used to Give me the keys. I go, but he knew. He was like, &quot;Bro, I'm not They going like Lamont was He was lifting the garage door to the field house all the time. - [Gilbert] Yeah. - Yeah, he was getting us in. - Yeah, committing crimes - [Iman] Bro, I swear. - I'm in here just trying to - [Iman] Real talk. Don't got nothing but a Niggas is wearing the stinking the car up like, it is crazy. When you first came to the NBA, who kind of taught you the ropes? Who was your big homie? - At first I was just that. - Everybody had the whole deal. - I was Dennis the Menace. Right, I wasn't playing. I got all this energy, right. Like y'all sorry, I'm gonna So you know rookie hazing? - [Iman] Yeah. Oh, oh, ooh, ooh. - It was bad. - Oh, I was- - Who with you? You had Twon.. - Antwon, Twon was cool. Larry cool. I had Chris Mills, I had Danny Fortson, I had Bobby Sura, Eric, I mean, so I had a nice group of... You keep playing Rook, we gonna keep putting you to shit. - Right, bro. And I was in like, shit, this is my game right here, bro. What we got? - [Iman] Oh, bro, I got you. - This my game right here. - Kick the ball into - Uh-huh. And then I'm like, &quot;I'm not going up there. What y'all going to do? Beat me up, cool? I need some, I need to run Let's go and take a ass whooping, ass whooping number 25. Like I was that dude. - You just keep building it. - Yeah, I'm just keep, listen, like I, hey, listen, don't start losing. Oh, here we go again, coach. &quot;Bad News Bears&quot;. We got Don't put, hey coach, don't put him in. He about to get toasted. Like I was that dude. - No way. - [Gilbert] Oh yeah, you about, oh you got, you got McGrady? Yeah. He about to give you a quick 15. What? I'm gonna keep your seat ready, boy. I'm doing all that. I just, because I needed some. I'm so glad, I'm so glad I'm younger than this nigga, man. - I needed something bro. Think about it, - No, wait a minute, coach never just looked at you when you was talking all that shit. Like, &quot;You know what, you do something.&quot; - I was hoping he did that. - Oh, you was just like, - Clearly. - Yeah. I'm the dude. Like I can't, I ain't practicing, right? So I can't get that energy out. I'm not playing. I'm not even lay up line. Like I'm mad that I can't lay up line. Like damn man, y'all don't show I got like, you know, - Oh you ain't had on your shit under? - No. Like I'm mad, listen, I'm not, look, I don't care about the game. I came to do my layups. - That's crazy. - If I can't do no layup, how - They can't even go, no. - How the girls supposed like, &quot;Ah!&quot; boy got a little figure roll? - He could play for the NBA. - You know what I mean? Like, you know, before the game somebody and they was like, Hey, how you doing, lady? - Real talk. - Nah, I can't do that. So like when, when I getting like, like I need It was Mark Jackson from Philly, Big Mark. And he was like, &quot;Man, listen, I played 25 games, the that's all I played. I got 25 million.&quot; He said, &quot;Listen, when they call your name, which they gonna call it at some point, everybody name get called, be ready.&quot; So he's like, &quot;So let's He said, &quot;I'm trying to get back, I need to get back in shape and get ready when they call my name.&quot; 'Cause he ended up coming from a cabin. So we used to, six o'clock in the morning, he'd pick me up, go to the gym, we playing full court one-on-one. Half court, one on one. - He like, &quot;Yeah, you got all that energy. Let me get better.&quot; - Right, so we sitting there, six o'clock, we playing for, man, four, five hours just going back and forth, 'cause he was, he think he a point guard. So he ain't sitting there trying to bully me. But he, you know, so we sitting here and I'm playing D using my speed. Then we got half court and then, like that summer it was Mullen. Chris Mullen really Like the, yeah, what you - [Iman] Right. Like get to what you're trying to do. Like go hard. Like you, you doing five hours of like... - Nonchalant. - 50%, you know what I mean? An hour or two, hard, everything hard. - A hundred percent. - And then I started really understanding and he was like, &quot;Play me, one on one.&quot; - [Iman] All right. - I'm about to cook the fuck out you. Oh, shit. - Man. And he using two dribbles. (Gilbert stammers) Oh okay. White boy got a little hands. All right, and then he's just like old man just sitting there poking, picking, ripping. - Just understanding. - And then he was like- - You probably didn't realize - Yep, and he was like, you - [Iman] He been watching you. - You gotta understand this, right? - He been watching you real good? - And he's like, your telltale signs. Right, &quot;I know when you're about to step back, I know when - [Iman] Yeah. - And then he's like teaching me that. - [Iman] Yeah. - And then that was like a real guy who scored buckets... - [Iman] Straight up. how to be a bucket getter. - Yeah. Did he never had you focus on no defensive shit, ever? - No, because back then, - Oh, you was. Yeah, you was younger. - Yeah, I played def, yeah. Picking up full courts, shit like that. Oh, you was on the same shot zone. That's why the nigga laughed I said, yeah, don't wanna - Pick up full, listen, we were stopping all that pickup shit. Before you came in, there They used to try that. We gonna press like college, In fact just go. Come on Damon Stoudamire. (Gilbert evoking engine revving) - [Iman] Real talk. Hell of a score so you feel. - Bad dam. Hey Damon was We can't press. We can't press him. He's too fast doing too fast. Let's just bring it back And then Jamal Tinsley, man, Jamal Tinsley was You know he ain't fast. - Oh no. He just gonna mix you up. - Just boom, I throw between legs. Like he just sitting this calm, you be sitting there and grab it back, fake it. He's sitting there like... - [Iman] Real talk. He just threw off your rhythm at all time. You never really knew what he was, Where the fuck he going on the floor? Him, who else was like that? Nick Van Exel. I'm like, what They're playing in their own, they got, they in their own world. - I'm like, what the fuck is Like if you ever watch it. Yeah. It's like you watch Nick Van Exel, it's like some of the moves he did, like, &quot;Bro, what the fuck is you on?&quot; - [Gilbert] Oh yeah. - What the fuck is you on? - As I said, but you wouldn't understand until we got there and we started looking. - [Iman] Yeah. - And then now, now I'm trying to, now I'm - If I could go back and say I've never really been asked this, but if I had to guard somebody, the scariest person that would either be God Shammgod or Nick Van Exel. Literally because I think I've played against Kyrie now, I've seen that style. I haven't, like Nick Van Exel It's like a fucking Jamal - Yeah. Yeah. It's a mix. - It's like sick. Like when you watch some of bro, why was you putting that together? - [Gilbert] Yep. Like what made you feel like... 'cause I'm like, some of I'm like, &quot;Bro, that don't even, like, that's not even on the highlight reel.&quot; It's just some that I just seen on some random shit on Like you gotta watch one of but it's like, &quot;Bro, this But it's a move or a ball fake to a pass that's like, &quot;Bro, that don't exist.&quot; Nobody's teaching that. - I'd be looking at someone that's like... you're looking at it like He'll do like a up fast here, pass here to go back here - It's like nobody's doing that. - Like why this first to that to that? - It's like what are you faking or what did you throw at first that now you are throwing - Yep, because it was. - It was so many before that. - And when you start and you hear the person - Real talk. I can't wait to get Jay Will, can we write J will down white chocolate. - Like you'll be sitting Yeah. It's like, yeah, when I skip up it makes the guy go up. So when I fake it hid, - He can't get that. - He can't get that pass now. And I'm like. - So you made sure. - So I'm trying to now, now now show me. And I'm like, okay here and then ah. - It works. - Ah. And that was the same Right. And I was like, yo, how, how do you keep throwing it you keep getting people He said because what happened boom boom boom. And then when they get into when I see they they And when I go for you to catch me, you have to cross your foot. If you try to just that, that big in a. - Moment. In moment I see it. - I snap if that big slide you try to big slide me, I'm gone. Yeah. It fall. Right. So if I see that The only reason he kept with Once he crossed over snatch back Dropped. - Real tough. - Right. And I said, so I'm I just know mentally boom, if that's the rule. Lay up. If you go and you stick - This is rule. - And it's, it's just - Something. That's People think people think I'm doing what he just said. Ah, so if I cross my What do you do if I power what do you do? So that's my first move to And if you got, if you dare I'm be like, oh you ain't, you ain't work hard enough you can't do it. I'm about Cuz that was the only Like I already got your whole repertoire. Everything else everybody does, there's always something that And when you could figure if you take away somebody's I don't know what it is, but the NBA player's mind gets very small. Very small. Like if you take like if you ever was to take like Mike can't get to his He just can't make one on you. His mind will start to change. You'll watch his confidence get different. They not looking at you the they overly trying to kill you. Like Yeah it's that now they can't even, they It's just you like, you Like anytime you could But you literally have to near become a fan of - And and that's the, that's the thing. Like I'll- you'll stop me. - You feel like you a fan. - You would stop me and I Hey man, what you doing? What was you looking at? Real talk like what was Like. - And a nigga be such a fan, the nigga be like, oh every time you do this And the like here be like thanks the conversation. Give come back. You want my number, bro. He was Nah. - Nah, but for real though. For you to be- I think people are so scared losing something. Like, what was I showing you? - Yeah. - Yeah. I need to know so I can fix it. - Real talk. - And then when you stop me the next time, what did you see then? Right. So I can fix it. How do I supposed to get better Real talk. - Sometimes though I, I be thinking about it in the that I gotta deal with. If I don't get to shoot on the gonna tell him my secrets. - You will. - I aint telling a nigga shit. - We say it, we say it but we end up doing it. - Because in a natural Yeah It ain't that big a deal. You like, oh you kept showing it like yeah. - And and then now I clean it up. Now he gonna find another way to stop me. - Real talk. - 'Cause I'm gonna study that It just, y'all could have gave me more Who are the best trash talkers you played against in the league? - Gary Peyton, Sam Castell, Big Mark Jackson from Philly. Kevin Garnett. But, listen, K.G. is a funny one 'cause most of his - And to that's the People don't understand this about K.G. I be telling a lot of people this, he talks shit within rhythm. Like it's within rhythm as Bitch ass nigga. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - You feel me? Like it's It's in tandem with an action. Real talk. But it's not. You know what I'm saying? Like Gil go buy you and lay it up. Yeah, that nigga sweet. Yeah. It's not, he really He just trying to hype his teammate up. - Right, right. - And then if you got a problem hard he gonna ride for his his teammate he'll just jump not doing that. Cause he really just want his Yep. He like I can handle Y'all can't handle it. It's all me. I'm taking everything over. He, he shows the crowd afterward. He be like doing this and. - Hell that means you in your head. - Like yeah I'm in your head But all I got was head up Like that for me was low Cause I'm like why is he doing, I used to think he was crazy realized bro he hasn't said everywhere the ball screen is coming, Rondo has now become more, Just, I'm like bro stop stabbing but I'm steady thinking Then I went by him a couple Everybody just caved in quick as. So I kick it out back off and and. But I'm steady thinking like me every time and then I What he doing? - You good. You clear, you Yep. Little by himself. They ain't playing with him. Little ain't on. Nah they shooter. Shooter a weak side too. Shoot a weak side. That's a Right here Lord. Right here Lord. Hey, hey, hey what you doing over? You know what. - I'm saying? But it's like throughout controlling the. - Game, controlling the defense. - He is controlling the out the little stuff when you roll Hey don't cut past me. But even that, it's like you now know exactly And I only realized that Marcus Camby became an you was just guard. I'm like bro, you don't understand what it's KT tell me everything. Like I it's like eyes in the yourself or it's an iso like Oh no, I'm jumping your hand. Yeah, I'm jumping your Figure it out with your Tie your hand behind your Unless you could reverse poking on me. You not scoring today. Like you get what I'm saying? But I know this cause they when you have somebody - See and okay so now we got conversation. So I'm waiting for the big - Oh a hundred percent. - So when I'm going, oh I said Right. And I'm on the side now naturally think ISO baseline. Yep. Right. So because he's gonna think baseline, he's gonna over jump the so what I'm gonna do is I'm like I'm going to hard crossing up the middle. - Yeah Because now he not, he just getting me to jump getting a straight line. - Yeah. So I'm just waiting everybody. - You just waiting on me to jump. - I'm just waiting for to, I'm just waiting for it like keywords. - Little do he know Coach We ain't going for that. Hit. - That hard. Boom. - I'm losing the sideline He will be turning that over scoring today. We ain't gonna let him step could do that. I hated a that could stop they will. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Lou Little Lou will rocker shot. it. Yeah he can, he can. But I'm telling you he wasn't me and just go make Oh no. - You be Tony. - Parker did to me that one time. - I get it because before I, he. - Was short. I started, - I started before we get So my move is starting before line. So you play me straight up. - Right. And you timing and you timing. - Time. Right. So I'm timing, I'm looking at everything. I'm, I'm looking at it. So I don't pay attention to I'm paying attention to the back line. Next what is the back line Do they take charges? - Why you usually jab to see. - What they so mine, I'm Like I'm never really crossing. But. - It's really to probing. what is they doing. - Yep. All I'm doing is just sitting here. That's the help. All right. Okay. And then I'll like be bye-bye boom. Oh back man left. - Didn't video game. Yeah. Huh. That's kinda like the video game. But. - That really man. - Stab he play around. I've He don't really play around now that I, now that he say that, it makes sense. He never really played. He played with a good square. Yeah, it's like this. But you, you don't realize. It's like he said though, it makes sense now that you early. So he's already getting, you don't realize you're You just think he doing. Yeah. You thinking he doing now that you say that this body to where you ha you - Yeah, you can't jump. - Yet. And if you make a mistake, I got too much real estate to I can go here, but it's what happened. It. Oh, okay. Keep keep the cameras rolling. - Telemundo. - Don't worry man. My. - Like, like, like if you, I'm never gonna be stationed close because now you get to So if I came down and I'm offense and then you get You never. - Let that connect. - You. Yeah. That's why you now you're where I'm going. So I'll - Keep the. - Sitting. Yeah. I'm starting to come like looking at the arms. All right. So if I try to cross over me, he got that. Yeah. Right. So I can't do that move. Right. So now it's just trying to make you move, you shift your feet. Yeah. And then when I see you, you stuck gold. - It makes sense though. Cause I, I noticed that about you You never closed off a lot. It was always unless he you say close off, you mean like turn his back, turn his back and play like a are literally like meow, meow will completely turn his see the ball. You get what I'm saying? It's a different type but half spin, fake it. He'll do it. Gil do where it is like they you before they go to whatever they want. But meow can turn his back here and if you behind him. - You can't see it. - Can't see it. Yeah. That's the scariest that people they throw you off. It's they literally drop it and like you gotta pick. - Yep. Pick a side. - Pick one. Cuz if you don't they gonna just turn and they you for a layup. So they go But it keeps you low and it so you so busy guessing you He do it to where he's facing actually decide to dance. So if you do reach for some, it's like he said it's either have to throw your body you know what I'm saying? Either way you gotta but I just never realized that's the game. I wish I would've knew this out the to like hey bro, if like I, I'm big on that though. He was doing what you said I the K.G. at PG once. Once I that's what I became. Oh. Like I started doing that. like the extra he be doing line. be like I smell I'm like bro I ain't got Ain't no look at you crazy bad. Used to go off the deep - Serious. - Oh no. And you realize it 'cause here. Like why wouldn't the pin drop getting louder. You on the road like we can - He's sweet. He's sweet. - Oh bro. It's like house in the house you forcing me to now. Now you forcing me to say - Digging ain't got No. - Look at this little ho man coming out his teammate hoe man s ahoe. He like yo what? Be a open shot. Like look at this. - Yo. - You in the corner wide open too. Like y'all ever look at No y'all don't look at the do - Yeah you look at the rep that solved. He gonna start laughing at you. Yes. - The rep is the police. - Yeah he gonna start laughing. What. - The police gonna do? Laugh at you. - Oh he never, he never did this one. Huh? Hey man. What, what's your name? Oprah. Hey who this coach? We got a No. Oh yeah we you ain't do enough. That's. - Paul Pierce for me to put. That's his move. Looking at your jersey like looked at Melo and said hey Who is that? Like who is that? Like I'm like bro score another another man. Like bro stop playing on me. Like who trying to disrespectful. Like I always loved them Like that's like the best I worked. Yeah, that's disrespectful. I love being hazed but they don't, 'cause if they didn't do like, if Paul Pierce didn't do this I don't, nothing happens for me. The time we come into that's why I was violating scored I did Jason, Terry, Paul did that. I walked to the sideline What's up Joe? Yeah, you seen him? What you on? Where he at? Where he at? What is this? I was steady doing that. I ain't know what he was doing but I was trying to like make what you just like, I've Like I wrote this down like But Paul Pierce was. - But he was violent. It's it is crazy how it - Putting the ball dead in right there. I'm like, I got it. I stuck cut that on. Gimme Who is this young man? Yeah. Who is Y'all got me? Melo. When when you let me know when when you ready to. I'm K.G. smell blood. Y'all smell. - Yes. - Rondo ain't said a word. He at my baldhead he said a word bro. What is this Ray Allen Yeah. Yeah. - He's a. - Nice one, A professional. But he got 35. He. - Got ke perks back - That people don't give He was Draymond for real. Straight up. We talking crazy. You hard fo you. - Think you coming off the Then Kerick over here with that other one back here. Come on you. - Going back up man. That was a good team. I think about it. Even though they the first super team. I feel like they wasn't the We ain't gonna talk about that. Father's the big theme on this show. I'll being a father changed your life. - As a, as a player. To be honest, I didn't, I didn't know what being Being a dad. Yeah. It is cool. Right? It was big. Cool. You know I, I see you at the game, right? Hey wave to you a couple times. By the time I get home you sleep. By the time you wake up I'm gone. Right. You know that's really the N - Yeah, you miss a lot of. - We miss a lot and we're there. Right. It's we're the, what's the funny is then we're that's messing up things. Right? Right. They have, they're They're on a program. Oh word. We've been on the road 12 days. We the ones that's coming We gonna go get some ice cream They're like, nah, he got school morning. Nah, all that school we're can you go back on the road? - And that's us being a good dad. Yeah. And that's, that's us being a great dad. Like you aint good. Right. Think about all the times that we, I my daughters are up at this is me and my, my wife having to be bad And they, they got, they they got a brush teeth - And the player, we, we messed it up. So we. - It all that up when I - Yep. I'm home. Hey everybody wake up. Hey. - I'm daddy here. Oh man, how school? - Three in the morning - Taking me. - To school. No. They be like, no, Nope. I'm gonna be asleep. - It's crazy though, now You really don't, if you got Yeah. Cause shoot around - You and you years for when when I retired it was like. - This is cool. Gimme. - That. I wanna be a father. Real talk. - This. - Is wrong. I wanna be a father. What? How old y'all? Oh, alright. Sam six. Okay. Four, two. I cool you. Yeah. You gotta relearn it. I. - Need a. - Sprinter. Yeah. And that's what I got. I got a sprinter. I do it. Why? I got a Ferrari. What am I doing? Had a Ferrari. How y'all, y'all fit? I had all y'all I can't fit back. Yeah. Just sit on the laps. Right. And you and I had to get That. - Was really like, let's rap the sprinter. Like let's. - Do this. What sports we play I figured. Oh. Oh, okay. Is that's the sport sitting Thought it was football. Ain't sitting there in - Oh bro. - Yeah. Yeah. I'm a hooper. Yeah. I don't, I. - Hate that. I hate that. You had a difference sport. - Yeah. Hey, how'd I, how'd I do today? Yeah, you ran. You ran mean He was kicking some. I don't what the I supposed, I don't know nothing about this sport was. - Kicking some was wild. We watched our father have because we was all over the place. So he didn't know that but he said he was gonna dive. Like he knew we watched but to learn a position he trying to digest the game for me. He trying to do basketball, he playing point guard now. He trying to, so he trying find games that he could give us. Look, youngest brother, this he want to play baseball, he So it was like, dog, we did the same. I'm like, bro. Yeah. Not knowing kick it into the goal. Not knowing none. I'm I'm like, you steady stopping He like, I can't cross right there. I'm like. - What? - He. - Know. - They had. - Zones. What you. - Is standing on one side he the only that care Like he the center. - What. - He the only that could do the jump ball. Gil, we like to ask all of our guests, what are you working on improving They'd apologize. - Well. - He was finna say nothing. - You know, I, I guess as, as, as, just back to the last just improving every day. Right? Because there's no blueprint. We can go look as a perfect father. Yeah. - Go. We say that all the time. Like ain't no, there's no examples. - For this. And I gotta, all five different real. So you, you, you sitting there trying All right got, I got five players. All right. Who likes what? Okay, who likes it when. - How do I keep them unhappy? - What time Right here. Yeah. Like alright these two Okay. They gonna jump this two. Like you gotta sit there. You the. - Yeah, that's, you really a coach. Coach. - You're really a coach. So You know, I got, you know daughter, she just got offered a Purdue So she's like, eh, that's a sorry school. Like wait, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. - Whoa. Relax. - Relax. That's big. - 10. You did great. I. - Know big people what? Be happy. You know this. You know I got St. Mary's over here. Whoa. - Wait a minute at the mailbox. Whoa, whoa. Coming in. - See value because of the This like, this brownie. Like wait a minute. - College around here. Like you need to, you need to relax a little bit. Right. Right, right. Cause. - So that's the things that girl understand that you got he has this emotion like you, you, that's what I'm trying to being a father to the point how'd I do? Right. You know, how'd I do? Like I, how I do was was was I cool? What was my flaws? You know what I mean? - That was wild. This is a first, this is, you know the parent asking Oh bro. - Cause listen, how you finish, how you go on is a Right. Right. If you, if I up like - All son. How do with you. - Hey I made it. - NBA he that ain't fair with you? Cause you can rely on the numbers. No, no. My, my son like, I. - Made an NBA. I'm, you know, Hey my van. - Ah daughter, she gave me a. - D. What, what you got from me? You know, you know B minus I Okay, I get. - That. Like so you just trying to come outta there with a B. - Average. Now you're trying you know, I'll, you know what I mean? Because when you look at, I know as a parent now when celebrities and they be having Yeah. You know these older ones having you be like, man don't like Right. We all wish we could fix it. Where, where, where does it come to the like I ain't talking to - That's crazy. That's crazy. - No, there's, that's insane. Like hey come on Pops or mother or like, Hey man listen I listen. I ain't do this. Right. I ain't know how to talk to you. Like that's easy conversation. - Straight up. I up real talk. I was a little kid. Yep. I'll spend every day this year I spend every day next year If you ain't going to talk to me, let me at least walk you to school. Yep. - We ain't gotta talk. I just Listen. - Just walk just so I can Yep. That's it. Little stuff. Just the little things. What is that? What did they say? - I think, I think we, I think sometimes it'd be like yeah you wasn't with me swing or you know, a push Yeah, true. I wasn't there but you, you You probably need some lunch. I'll be your uber Uber driver Let me, let me try to make you need to babysitter. I can babysit you. Your kids. You ain't gotta pay. Let me be a grandfather. Straight up. I might not have been a good - Let me, let me sub in. - Something else. Yeah. You know I don't want, you know, I don't want what I did wrong here. Let me go ahead and It is just, that is, but that's Right? Yeah. You gotta figure out father, - Real. - Talk. It's all the same. - No, I love that you said that. I ain't never really thought That is, that is a first. That's a first for me. I I can't wait to ask my That's what I'm. - Saying. Hey you how'd - I'ma do that tonight. Give me a grade. Gimme a grade. - Gimme a grade. Go. - Ahead. Year. Might be hard though for birthday. I might video a grade every year. Oh yeah. Give him my full report card. - Report card. Gimme a report. Card. Card. Report card. What I need to work on. We do it in everything else we season. Right. - What you get the evaluation I'm just seeing YouTube They'll ask you to rate Instagram bro. - Rape me. Real. - Talk Uber. - Everybody want to rate it real. All right. What? What'd I get this week ain't lie. - Deal. Oh bro. Real. What'd you. - Gimme? What I need to - Huh? All the kids come Dad. Yeah. Like it's gonna be a bunch of dads y'all, where does Quin come from? Where is this? Quinn? Hey dad. Huh? Came forbid no chill guilt. He said I had. - I had your fathers all you hey all you A U kids. - Hey all your AAU kids every specific. - AAU kids rate your Hey man, I ain't even gonna be rude. Don't with your pops but yeah, don't. - Do that. - Yeah mama. You gotta see Daddy. You got a D. Hey y'all go work on y'all. Y'all over here embarrassing listen to be honest. Why? Why the kids is playing. That's they job straight basketball. Don't shoot no more. Slide. - Run. I know I ain't come in the My dad did that one game. I'm not gonna come here to watch this. I said yo. He was like 10. But I'm like yo. - That has the most pressure nine and 10 got the most pressure. - It just made everybody a, I knew what I was gonna I turned it up. We gonna turn it on. But it's like all the other not that serious. Everybody look not that bad. Like yeah, they looking like let it be. - Kid one lay. - He like, I'm not, I'm not I was like, pop like take it easy bro. Like let's go bro. It's like yo, like pop. It's cool man. It's the Y M C A game. Yeah. - Oh, it's worse now. - Yeah, it is. The Y M C A game. We got on This is the blue shirt, t-shirts shirt. Yo bro, I always playing I used to have to tuck my shirt down. Like my, I really like baseball. You said baseball joint before we let you go. Anything you wanna promote. - Drop, you know what I mean? I I I'm not one of those man, - You got a podcast? - I I know, I know. - This really not gonna do it. - Man. No, I know I supposed to man. But I like, like when it is theirs man. I. - Know, but it is like part. Listen, we wanna promote your podcast. - Listen, we here right. If you wanna watch me at some point, when you not watching this, you know Fubu, you know what I mean? For Fubu, right? That's Fubu No chill, no chill - You can follow me then. could say Fubu. - That's, you know, knew. - He. - You know, but that's what I'm saying. I just like to focus on what I don't like, I don't like to take away You know what I mean? That's how. - Feel it feel Takeaways. Tell, tell if your, your - I don't know. - Talking. - About listen, no Chill. Right. You type that in. You'll find me somewhere. Hey. - Man, type it in and Man. You drive around with - Type it in. You can type it in. - Anywhere. You'll find me. That's me. Don't worry about me. Pull me over there. Hey man, as always, thank you I am your hoister. And I'm Ahrii Shumpert. Thank you Todd. Guest