From massive snakes to 100-ton sharks, here are extinct! 10. Titanoboa Titanoboa means "titanic boa" and that This ancient serpent could reach lengths of It lived in South America, 58 million years younger than the dinosaurs. The swamp where it lived received twice as Not only were the trees larger but so were It makes sense that there would be a predator manhole covers and crocodiles over a dozen The titanoboa looked like a modern-day boa anaconda. The thickest part of its body would have been It was also the largest snake ever to exist. To give you a little more perspective on how a crocodile whole. It was at the top of the food chain and probably its powerful jaws to crush the windpipe. For the titanoboa, we would probably have meal. 9. Cameroceras Cameroceras means "chambered horn", which not really clear what it is. The horn was a large shell inhabited by the Cephalopods include octopus, squid, and cuttlefish. These are all predators, but Cameroceras was It lived in the middle Silurian period, about Its shell, the chambered horn, was around Tentacles grew from the base of the head, used those to seize its prey. Its hard, keratinous beak would have bitten straight through hard shells and armored exoskeletons. Within the beaks of modern cephalopods, out soft tissue from within the prey's shell. Though it is not known for certain if Cameroceras because the tentacles, size, and beak weren't Its fossils have been found in mainland China, So, during its heyday, there wasn't a safe 8. Kaprosuchus Ever wondered what a wingless dragon would Look no further than Kaprosuchus. Discovered in 2009, this Cretaceous period Its name means "boar crocodile" and comes tusks. All we have so far is the skull, so things However, that speculation is pretty terrifying. It has a bulky nose, which suggests a horn used as a battering ram. Its jaws have notches in the bone to allow Otherwise, its huge teeth would have forced I'm not sure which image is more frightening. The only fossil of this creature has been Despite the lack of knowledge about this creature, imagination and you can encounter Kaprosuchus 7. Arthropleura Arthropleura, whose name means "jointed would want to encounter. Living 323 to 299 million years ago in the A seven-foot long (2.3m) millipede. This makes it the largest arthropod ever! At the time it lived, there was more oxygen in rain forests, helping animals to get larger Because of its size, it left deep trackways today. Scientists have discovered it lived in eastern Luckily, it was an herbivore most of the time, So, unless you're made of leafy green vegetables, Unless it ran you over. And even if you survived that, the fact that to fuel a thousand nightmares. 6. Pulmonoscorpius When we think of scorpions, we think of an but is rather small. Well, that wasn't always the case. Enter the Pulmonoscorpius, or the "breathing Like the Arthropleura, it lived in the giant everything was bigger and scarier. This scorpion transitioned from an aquatic lifestyle of its present-day descendants. Unlike its descendants, the Pulmonoscorpius No one is sure what this creature ate exactly it dined on other insects and tetrapods. Scientists feel safe in guessing this scorpion's Fossils of the Pulmonoscorpius have only been What the heck? Who knew Scotland had so many scary bugs! 5. Argentavis Magnificens Six million years ago, in present day Argentina, It is the largest flying bird ever discovered. While its name points to Argentina, it is This ancient bird's wings spanned 23-30 This is twice as big as an albatross or the Because of its size, scientists don't think It also couldn't launch itself into the Scientists believe it used the same method ground and headwind. Once airborne, these birds glided rather than What did something this large eat? Because it has been extinct for millennia, ate carrion as well as small animals. Small when compared to an Argentavis Magnificens, It has been hypothesized that when Argentavis up its prey and ate it without stopping. 4. Deinosuchus Deinosuchus is an extinct genus related to years ago during the late Cretaceous period. The name translates as "terrible crocodile" The first remains were discovered in North but the dinosaur was not named and described Deinosuchus was far larger than any modern measuring 35 feet (10.6 meters) in total length. However, it looked fairly similar to its smaller Deinosuchus was an apex predator and among It was probably capable of killing and eating Hector Rivera-Sylva and colleagues described from Mexico, and similar finds have been reported It may have also fed upon sea turtles, fish, 3. Megalania Prisca Megalania Prisca was a giant monitor lizard 30,000 years ago. This could mean that the first human inhabitants No complete skeleton of Megalania has been The first fragments were discovered in the He estimated that this giant lizard grew to It was nicknamed the "ripper" because ripped it apart. However, some controversy exists regarding Scientists today say that the bones resemble In fact, many now refer to Megalania as Varanas eleven feet. That's still nothing to scoff at, especially What's more, many people think Megalania Australia's bush because there are eyewitnesses As if Australia wasn't scary enough. 2. Entelodon Interestingly, this creature's name means It existed 37 to 27 million years ago in the While some people have taken to calling these like hippos than swine. So, how big was it? About the size of a modern day cow, about Entelodons are widely regarded as omnivores though it sometimes supplemented its diet Its bite strength was phenomenal. Scientists discovered a pile of Oligocene Skulls have been unearthed bearing evidence own species. Somewhat confusingly, this animal has lent the Entelodonts. The Entelodon belongs to this family. The reason why it gave its name to this megafauna its kind to be discovered. 1. Megalodon This enormous, extinct shark species has become perhaps second only to the T. rex. The biggest species of shark to have ever to have looked similar to today's great However, while a great white shark can grow pounds, the megalodon was estimated to be 50 to 100 metric tons. Its teeth were so massive that when people they thought they were dragon tongues. Megalodons died off about 1.6 million years it still wanders the ocean. If it did die off when scientists believe that are still around today--like giant sea Its fossils have been found all around the There is no direct evidence that Megalodon There are fake documentaries and fake footage either the carcass of the creature itself, or one of its teeth to wash ashore before Whenever a previously thought extinct animal shark, people can be forgiven for letting You just never know... Thanks for watching! Be sure to subscribe and and click right here See you next time!