Wes Van Dell: My wife and I have the last two years. Narrator: This is Wes Van Dell. facing many of the same issues have faced in this hot housing Wes Van Dell: We really just to increasing interest rates mortgage. We did put in a couple anywhere, just because it's a Narrator: But the Van Dell's most home buyers navigating the Wes Van Dell: We found one that was right area, but we knew it budget just because the interest to look at the realtor app that app that said, This home Narrator: What the Van Dells called an assumable mortgage, rate, as opposed to the 2024 6% Raunaq Singh: an assumable where the buyer can actually terms from the seller. Wes Van Dell: That meant a Narrator: a common occurrence in mortgages are a rare find in 2023 only 4052 Federal Housing assumed. That's still a 59% assumptions Since 2021 for jump is even larger with 2244 increase of 713% compared to already outpacing previous years So what are assumable mortgages? they more common? Raunaq Singh: The vast majority know that they have an assumable to find them, and agents don't purchase. Narrator: While assumable Public interest in them is the term assumable mortgage have increasing mortgage rates over Raunaq Singh: This is the most America of the last 40 years, 60 from being able to purchase to Narrator: When it comes to the experience, most Americans approaches a lender to get pre the buyer settles on a home, cover the cost at a fixed rate. that mortgage over the term of years. What an assumable take over the seller's loan. So loan at a new rate, you inherit mortgage at whatever rate they that took out an assumable interested home buyer a sub 3% Raunaq Singh: for the homeowner rate mortgage in their home sale of being able to sell the home buyers who can afford to Narrator: In the 1970s and 80s, highs, peaking at 18% in 1981 popular then, but have largely consciousness following the act in 1982 allowing private repayment if a property is sold. clause. Diana Olick: Assumilable at all, simply because they're Narrator: Assumable mortgages do hurdles, the possibility of payments knowledgeable lenders fact that they're only offered VA FHA and United States mortgages are now the main type in the US. Raunaq Singh: The most popular mortgages is Texas. This is population. There also a large population. Wes Van Dell: we are a military Force base in our community loans. It's also a younger of FHA loans within our Narrator: and government back you are looking to enter into an settle in, they can take a while Diana Olick: Assumable mortgages involve a lot of paperwork, and simply don't want to do them. understand them. Wes Van Dell: So there's a lot that is required. We were told company that the process is Narrator: Homebuyers should also money than the typical 20% down require buyers to cover the mortgage as well as any Diana Olick: We've seen really somebody who has a home that have a lot more money in that Narrator: For example, say, a fixed rate VA loan for a home at 25,000 of that over two years, would have to pay the buyer the that $25,000 Additionally, if their home for $250,000 the additional 50,000 in by taking out a second mortgage. Wes Van Dell: A little bit of a you're negotiating on what the Of course, you don't really know house, either got lucky in that the house versus what we had almost exactly that same 20% we Narrator: one of the biggest mortgage awareness, not just by have to advertise their home as Raunaq Singh: So about a fifth 25% of the homes on the market time, the number of assumption is far fewer than the number of Narrator: while assumable and at times, complex companies streamline the process for Raunaq Singh: 97 98% of the don't know that it can be a what kind of homeowner sits type being the marketing Narrator: Other companies like help match interested home Wes Van Dell: I think once that a possibility. We're going to up.