- This video was made possible by NordVPN. Stay safe online by and get a huge discount with a risk-free 30 day Also, why not grab of the little corporal and big shout out to the patrons head on over to learn about and maybe even a little Okay, Mrs. Bonaparte, this is it, one last push and we're done. Congratulations! It's a general. Oh, and here comes the Did you just say the rest of the army? (fanfare music) History is full of great conquerors many with very impressive origin stories. For example, Alexander The Julius Caesar came from that descended from a goddess. Great conquerors don't usually come from relatively on impoverished islands, that is where our story begins. In the early 18th century, The Island of Corsica was a part of the Republic of Genoa until we're declaring independence not worth your time to try and stop us. So Genoa said, you're right, Hey France, you want to buy this island? And France said, sure thing. And thus Corsica became for Napoleon to be born French. Many Corsicans didn't appreciate And from an early age, anti French sentiments. Napoleon's dad, however, quickly embraced his new French overlords which created some tension Ooh. Look at me. I'm dad. I wear powdered wigs and And I'm a trader to the Corsican people. Go to your room Napoleon. No, you go to your room, dad. Okay. On the other hand, who was definitely the And even though she would he kind of respected that. But Napoleon's parents wanted And since they were a very minor nobility they were able to have Napoleon sent off to the shining lights and rat-infested sewage Napoleon went to military Okay. Napoleon, why don't to your new classmates? Well, I'm Napoleon, and I hate all of you. Your farts smell like cheese. You can't pronounce the letter R. All you do is go on strike. And you call eggs &quot;oeufs&quot; like a bunch of big dumb idiot dingleberries. Okay, thanks Napoleon. I hope you like being bullied. And bullied he was. They picked on him for his family's lack of wealth, and it probably didn't help on his shoulder, but And on an average day, out ratatouille sandwiches for breakfast. He spent much of his time about the great conquerors of history. He learned about Julius if one day he too might after him, (funky music) He excelled at math and geography, and when he graduated at the age of 16, he was made second Lieutenant Now, Second Lieutenant might screw up like you, but called ambition, stonks of it. And he wasn't content being He wanted to rise the ranks. Unfortunately for him, that Well, Napoleon I've it's clear you're very skilled and would be a perfect And Simeon, you're just about the Your test results suggest of a senile earthworm. And in the part of the form you seem to have drawn giving birth to a shoe, but your dad is the so, you get the job. (Simeon screams) French society was just too closed off. Positions were handed out And the young Napoleon Wouldn't it be nice if, say, and changed all of that? Well, what are the chances? The French revolution is here. Bastille toppling, head the revolution promised to do away with the old social hierarchy and make everyone a little more equal. Napoleon may not have cared but if it meant he could He began fighting to He put down a British into Toulon and got promoted. He put down a royalist uprising And as his military prowess he was even given his very own army. It was astonishing progress for such a young man of humble origins and Napoleon's wildest But Napoleon also his social status if he And so around this time, However, if some sources he was a verified creep. He reportedly had terrible luck with woman and most wanted nothing to do with him. Fortunately, he eventually met Josephine an aging single mother and needed stability. So she agreed to marry him, despite finding him intensely disgusting. Napoleon you dirty dog, you've done it. Unbeknownst to Napoleon however, Josephine had a bit of a Hey Napoleon, I hear Boy, she sure is a great kisser. That's right. Hey, wait, what do you Hey Hugo! You hear Napoleon's Wow. She sure is a great kisser. Now hang on just a minute. Hey everyone! Napoleon's (crowd talks over each other) Oh for goodness sake, is there anyone here who Yeah, you. (crowd laughs) As Napoleon fell madly in She fell madly in love It wouldn't be long however, before Napoleon would because while France was tensions in Europe were rising. Hey Austria, you'll never What's that France? I got two words for you, Revo, Lution. We totally just socked it to our monarchy! What, dude, the rest of us are monarchies. You've just totally threatened the balance of power in Europe. Now we have to worry rising up against us. I mean, holy hell your Queen is Okay, France. This is pretty awkward. And the rest of Europe give you a wedgie, but you're So you gotta be cool man. It's absolutely crucial that you say something to diffuse Preposterous! I declare war. Sacrebleu! So France ended up at war with and the war of the first coalition began. At first France struggled, but then they started And in many conquered territories they began to establish sister republics, exporting their revolutionary In 1796, they planned a and knock Austria out of the in the north to kick ass, as a bit of a diversion. For the first time, Napoleon This was his chance to prove and what a general, he proved to be. The army he was given were demoralized, lacking equipment, and underpaid, but Napoleon galvanized them And he took them into Italy. He was outnumbered and meant to be a sideshow, but While the two Northern Napoleon made staggering progress. In a signature Napoleon move, he masterfully split his enemies into two and took them on separately, knocking Sardinia out of the war, and putting the Austrians on the run. At the famous Battle of Lodi, he was in the fray, getting covered in mud, and earning the total respect of his men. They respected him so much, that when he ordered an on the only bridge in town, and took it despite fierce For Napoleon, it was that he was the greatest Wow Napoleon, you're pretty Just be careful, your What did you just say And as Napoleon swept the Italians cheered his arrival. Yes! I'm here to liberate you from your cruel Austrian oppressors. And replace them with French ones. Napoleon plundered as he to France to help its economy, but also paying his men the first real The Pope had been so Napoleon briefly went And as he began to approach Vienna, the exhausted Austrians with Napoleon overseeing He had just single-handedly And by the way, he was only 28. So maybe it's about time you In the Italian territories Napoleon established new even writing constitutions and organizing governments himself. Not something a general generally does. When he got back to France, and the extremely unpopular he might get some power hungry ideas. So they agreed he should go where he could maybe undermine Napoleon was eager to win more glory. So he brought with him a team of scholars, and he was like, whoa Whoa, it's a big stick. Whoa, It's an ugly horse. Whoa, it's a stumpy little manlet. Hey, I'm actually average But then British Admiral Nelson came down and wrecked his fleet. And an Anglo-Ottoman force So Napoleon abandoned his His campaign in Egypt hadn't But one thing you should that he was a skilled propagandist. He published his own exaggerated his achievements that generally made him look cool. So when he returned to hailed as a hero, and he began to get First however, he had a bit See, he had learned something Really Josephine, this guy? I'm just as tall as him. I'm sorry. I swear, now that you're becoming famous, I'll never do it again. Make sure you don't. I've never stooped so Now, if you'll excuse consulting my generals And by consulting, I mean boinking, by my generals, I mean this woman and by 30 minutes, well Having dealt with his wife, by a very influential politician, He wanted to stage a unpopular government and needed the extremely And Napoleon thought that was The plan was to trap the government and convince them to And here's how they did it. Hey guys, oh my gosh, quick! There's a dangerous Jacobin which we definitely aren't just making up. Better get inside this Okay. Gentlemen, we got them. (cheers) In this case, the cage outside of Paris, with no and his army. With the government inside, and a pretty chaotic event ensued. During which, the government what was going on, Napoleon's what was going on, and Napoleon himself didn't seem entirely But thankfully Napoleon's brother Lucien, President of the Lower House, and the remaining into creating a new constitution. And thus, a new government was formed. This time with three Consuls in charge. But after Napoleon did some rewriting, in the end there was really the first Consul, him. And over the next few years, he worked to consolidate even more power and essentially became a dictator in total control of France, So maybe it's about time you washed your disgusting bedsheets. France was now ruled by military leader of the time. Possibly the greatest? Or definitely? Well now is his chance to prove it. See, back when Napoleon being Indiana Jones, back being France. They had conquered even more hey Piedmont, you get Hey Switzerland, you get And Rome, you get revolutionary ideals. Everybody gets revolutionary. Oh, Hey guys, nice sledgehammers, and Naples, very cool nail gun. You guys here to get some (screams) Sacre bleu! As France was still And with Napoleon busy in Egypt, the European powers felt the And the War of the And this time they're was here to bang some French And bang them, they did. France, got blasted. But then Russia pulled out And now that Napoleon was he was ready to start blasting right back. He took command of The Army of the Reserve and he brought the fight to the Austrians. Now, there are many a great military leader. I already mentioned one of them, and commanded the total But now we see a second reason, In 1800, Napoleon moved to Geneva and it looked like he was on the Austrian forces in Germany. There's no way he'd be crazy enough to move his entire army a surprise attack on the Oh, Napoleon's moving through the Alps as a surprise attack on the Austrians besieging Genoa. Napoleon's crossing of And you may have seen one of the general popping a stallion, surrounded by Of course, in real life, on a depressed mule, When he emerged in Italy, come break their siege. But Napoleon went for their forcing the Austrians at the famous battle of Marengo. The Austrians initially clobbered And they were like, hooray, we won. But then a few hours later, with an even bigger army and Holy cow this tiny little is running rings around us. Hey! I'm average height Then, after General Moreau's Vienna was exposed and the Just like the war of The First Coalition, the Second Coalition ended But in many ways they both felt more Only the UK remained at they were using their powerful and were even seizing the Obviously everyone else got pretty pissed off that the British were So in response, they formed a league and they Neutral countries protecting That's offensive. So Britain went to Copenhagen And the league disbanded. But because UK's economy was pretty bust they decided to sign a For the first time in a long Congratulations, Sire, Yes, Pierre, but not for long. I still don't trust those dirty Brits. Did you hear they've been What does that even mean? Keep an eye on them, would you? I can't, Sire. Why not? Because they use NordVPN! How would you like to spend 12 hours a day on your favorite website of your data being stolen? Then you need NordVPN. NordVPN has thousands of allowing you to safely surf the net at the fastest possible speed, while staying away from online threats, thanks to the anti-malware tool, CyberSec. NordVPN comes with a 30 And now you can take advantage of their new password manager, NordPass, and new encrypted cloud NordVPN lets you search for better deals in other territories and unlock content not available in your country. Like some OverSimplified It's incredibly easy to use, with just a click of a button, you can head up to Canada and just like that. Go to nordvpn.com/oversimplified plus one additional month That's nordvpn.com/oversimplified. And as always, you'll be so thank you. Now, where were we? Oh yeah. Crossing the Alps, and Europe at peace. What a meteoric rise it had He had just taken charge of be losing a war and turned it all around, securing French gains in Europe. But there was now a big the chaotic French had struggled to keep the economy afloat. They often didn't have and they frequently came and went. Would Napoleon finally be the Military victories were one thing, but could the general also govern? Spoiler alert, yes. The economy's crumbling? Well then why don't you have currency reform, and improve The legal system is an incoherent mess? Well then why don't we nicely into one new centralized legal code? Corrupt government officials? Bad infrastructure? Throw it in the trash. Women's rights? Throw them in the trash. Wait, really? Well, Yeah. Unfortunately, on the equality of the revolution, he also largely scaled back and husbands had full legal But come on ladies, maybe let men have a slice Napoleon further reformed education, ensuring a system based Meaning now, Simeon had to and Napoleon could get to help him run the Republic. But he wasn't just building on The revolution had led to a lot of chaos and Napoleon needed stability. So he rolled back a couple of things. Most notably with religion, pretty much kicked the but Napoleon understood citizens still considered that could be a problem. So he came to an agreement with the Pope and brought back the church. Only this time with some He also ensured freedom and is often noted for of Jewish people at a time But while all of this like a pretty standup that he believed in religious freedom because he thought it was a from eating the rich, Overall, Napoleon's aim was to end the chaos of the revolution and finally create a stable And in that aim, he seemed and generally popular He officially declared that the revolution is over, Napoleon's head could be seen for miles. Of course, not everyone was Conservatives felt he was too radical. Radicals felt he was too conservative. But since Napoleon was a dictator, opposition could usually be stamped out with some good old fashioned iron fisting. In 1804, Napoleon took After some failed attempts He wanted to strengthen his position and ensure his dynasty And so he decided being simply wasn't quite enough. He decided he should become Emperor. He held a vote asking the with the idea and they not rigged, 99.9% in favor. The balls on this man. And so in the 2nd of December, 1804, in an elaborate ceremony at Notre-dame, Napoleon was made Emperor. The Pope was even invited to attend and normally he would make sure everyone knew this circular power division, and placed it on his own head. Like I said, the balls on this man. He was now Emperor of the French. Well Napoleon, you were a General, then you became First Consul for Life, And now you're an Emperor. Is it enough yet? Is your ambition finally satisfied? I don't know Pierre, I would say, God sire. You want to be a God? Yes. I'll put it down under maybe. Okay everyone. What the hell is going on? This Corsican guy showed up out of nowhere and he's kicking our ass! He's exporting the ideas wherever he goes. And he just declared himself He can't do that, I'm the emperor! Oh, hey fellow monarchs. I see you're having a monarch party. My invite must've got lost in the mail. I'll just set up a spot right here. Wow. You don't belong here, Napoleon. We're coming to take you down. I'd like to see you try. I'm so scared, I just pooed my pants. Hey everyone, I just pooed my pants! (crowd laughing) No, but I did just poo my pants. Before Napoleon had even the British had already because both sides had been Napoleon immediately occupied Hanover and then began making plans Partially paid for by to the United States. Napoleon gathered his army But here was the problem, while Napoleon's powerful obliterate the British on land, there was very little across the channel because This power dynamic would keep from engaging in much real direct combat throughout the Napoleonic wars. However, the British had copious amounts of money. They were willing to throw cash at anyone who would go to war against Napoleon. And there were plenty of and Sweden, hoping to put in its place, formed The Third The coalition forces probably thought that this time they stood a chance. They weren't prepared they were about to suffer. The War of the Third Coalition We've already learned two ways in which Napoleon was a but here comes one of the He had reorganized his army into corps, which were themselves, Each had their own infantry, And as a result was able They spread out through the off the land, rather than they were able to move extremely quickly. Napoleon would traverse massive distances, outmaneuver his enemies, for the kill before they Lightening warfare, leading Would you like to see him do it? Here we go. Part of the Coalition's plan with the Austrians and Combined, they could turn So Napoleon needed to stop but he's all the way over in Bouillon. No problem. In a matter of weeks, in secret, encircling and capturing his entire army. A devastating blow. Napoleon later remarked, I have destroyed the Austrian Next, he turned to face Okay. It looks like the but check this out. I've got an amazing idea. When they approach, We run away, Sir, you're a genius. The Russians began to retreat And since his tactics this could be a problem. Especially because the the more likely it looked other countries may join But Napoleon knew the Russians are Alexander The First, who So he came up with an idea to lure him in. He sent him a message. What does it say? It says, hello. I'm and I'm very scared. Are you talking like that, or is he? He is, sir. Why's he doing that? I don't know, but it's very A little baby boy. Very scared. Cute? Boris, get my crossbow, The Allied forces turned to face Napoleon, who they now believed was He was set up at Austerlitz and to make it look he had even evacuated the high ground. A thick fog set in, as the Allies took the bait From there, they spotted Napoleon's very And they descended the Little did they know, it was exactly what Napoleon The next thing they knew, a from the fog, launching a huge They swung around crushing the allies. And as men attempted to flee Napoleon ordered his causing an unknown number to drown. But he told me he was just a He tricked you, sir. You mean I was the little It was Napoleon's masterpiece. And Austria were once again forced to make peace with France. Then, with the French The War of the Third Coalition ended as yet another Napoleon victory. This was the third time give Austrian Emperor And so with the peace treaty in 1805, Napoleon was determined to punish him. He was forced to give up territory, hand over significant compensation, and promised never to For now Russia, Sweden, and the UK remained at war with France but none were able to And so Napoleon got to work strengthening his grip over Europe. He gave out rule of captured territories to his family and friends. And most notably, he in Germany with himself as its protector. Seeing his influence in Emperor Francis acknowledged reality, and officially dissolved An entity that had existed But it wasn't all good news for Napoleon. For one thing, Spain had earlier because the British just from blowing up Spanish ships. And Napoleon hoped the would eventually be Unfortunately, he received word had engaged his fleet at Trafalgar. Normally Naval battles looked Nelson did this? Was it because he was an idiot? No, it's because he was a genius. He successfully punched through and unleashed hell. His victory ensured British during the battle made him a legend. Napoleon's hopes for a future But not just that, Napoleon on the continent, but because the Prussian king was Frederick, he's established and he told us he'd give us Hanover but then offered it to the British. You have to declare war on him. What is it with you and war? What is it with you and being a cupcake? Go to war. Okay. In October 1806, Prussia, with its famed military and declared war beginning the Unfortunately, Prussian King Wasn't the smartest tool in the shed. Look at him over there. Being all French, makes me sick! Boys, will get him this time. But here's the thing, this Do not, under any circumstances, You all saw what happened to Austria. Hey, where'd Fred go? Hey you jerk, think you're Want to tango with Fred? You don't got the cajones. We're screwed. Without consulting its allies, Prussia had gone ahead and Demanding he move all his Now some of you watching this video, probably can't even wipe but even you know, you don't just send Napoleon an ultimatum. Obviously, Napoleon went in for the kill. Prussia's army was quite outdated. So when they met Napoleon of Jena and Auerstedt, Even Marshall Davout's heavily sent the Prussians running out a ruthless pursuit of his And within a single month, Frederick William, and moved to the east. At this point, Napoleon's Winter had come and He anticipated both sides would but Russia decided to try their hand at an unexpected winter attack. A series of brutal battles on both sides, including fought in blizzard conditions. Men froze to death, and many deserted. The Russian artillery and Napoleon himself was momentarily under risk of being captured. In the end, the French army was saved, thanks to a legendary cavalry charge by Napoleon's flamboyant After the horror inflicted on both sides, they decided it might do any more fighting until after winter. Then after winter came the Russians were pushed where Russian general Bennigsen by positioning himself with The French artillery were between the river and A major element in and many Russians drowned War of the Fourth Coalition, (dramatic music)