Translator: Rosa Baranda Whenever we draw something, we ask ourselves painful questions, such as, 'Is this drawing good?' 'Am I talented?' or worst of all, 'Is this art?' And that leads many of us to say, 'Well, this doesn't look like art. I can't draw, and I shouldn't do it.' We would never do that with language. No one would say, 'Well, this just didn't come out (Laughter) Because we know and get in touch with others. Well, and so is drawing. We've put drawing into But drawing is not only personal self-expression, Drawing is not about art. Drawing is bigger than art. It is a way to think in pictures - like an architect does or a scientist who tries to figure out These people are not they are also thinking in pictures. The think visually. You can do that too. And today I want to show you five ways how drawing can support Let's get to the first one, intuition. When we want to get better at drawing, is improve the connection And we can do that where we just fill We start with bigger ones And exercises like these are So they might get but the stronger our hands become, the better we can control them to draw. Repetitive exercises like these We have to focus intentionally So they bore other parts of our thinking, bore them in the best sense of the word. They bore our restless and make room for a more And in this intuitive mindset, Because, you know, The problem is We can't see everything - so we have to reduce the amount and we try to see patterns and order. We also see less. Now, without turning around, What is the person behind you wearing? How many trees did you see in front of We don't pay attention to these things, It's much easier to just recognize things We don't care how many or how its branches are shaped, (Laughter) all we need to do is identify the tree We reduce the world to labels. But when we draw, we actually have to look The labels disappear, and we see We situate ourselves in the world. And because we pay such it becomes a part of us. So when I think back where I spent last summer, I can remember many beautiful details. Because I spent the time So I stored those memories Now, you might say, 'Okay, I want I'm going to draw one of those plants.' And the drawing should look So you give it a go, but your drawing might turn out (Laughter) What's going on here? The problem is we tend to draw and not what we see. Here is a little trick, how you can Instead of drawing an object, let's focus on the spaces and draw those. Because when there's nothing like the leaves or the buds of the plant, it's easier for us to actually And when we make observations like these, we can discover extraordinary beauty Because we don't find beauty; we make the world beautiful Okay, so we know how to get and how to draw what we see. Can we also draw what we cannot see, like our thoughts or emotions? We first have to understand and, as a consequence, has been shaped by evolution. Over millions of years, our surroundings Gravity, for instance, so we're very sensitive Horizontal lines seem to be Vertical lines as you can see in a standing person Both horizontal and vertical lines Diagonals are a whole different story. They make us a little uneasy: 'Is this thing going to And it is visual habits like these that are the foundation Now, when I use the term language, Shapes are very different from words; you can't look up what And we don't build sentences, compositions that mean something. Here's something you can try. Pick any subject, and arrange it in different ways Now, observe how changes what the composition says. Each of these arrangements prompts us as a threatening monster, a lover, or maybe someone who got lost. And if you learn compositions like these, if you learn how to use then we can draw things For instance, I made it a habit In fact I have a rule: if I can't draw something, So I make little sketches, like this one, what's going on in my mind Or this one, where I was wondering about the relationship between and the shapes of our hands. This was about two different sorts And here I was thinking and other types of communication. So over time I've gathered and they give me an overview And I can also rearrange So drawing can also help us to understand. Okay, so we know how to get how to discover beauty with drawings, how to draw things that are invisible. What can we do with this? Well, we can imagine something new, At the core of creativity are ideas. What is an idea? I like to think of ideas and that somehow magically combine And of course, the more thoughts and knowledge the likelier are the chances might combine into something Creativity really is all about quantity. Let me give you an example. Let's assume for a minute and you want to come up with a new cup. If you know how to draw things, then you have a visual and you can combine those, Let's say you are into football, You can easily imagine it vividly. All you have to do now is draw it. Or let's say you feel a little grumpy today, and you want an angry cup. Or ... you might have a friend You might come up And this type of visual thinking because you can imagine something So, this is very useful in the first part where you try to come up with as many Especially the bad ones. We don't judge in this part And then in the second part, when we narrow things down a stupid idea from before might turn out as just And you can apply this way of Because creativity you take in information and knowledge, and you combine it And if you know then you have a powerful support You can also share in texts or in presentations. Language is probably the most powerful tool and yet it has its limits. One problem with is you have to go through them to know what they say. And as soon as you have, and vanish into a grey texture again. It is hard for us to anchor and drawings can help make them stick. Let's go back to how I want you to close your eyes Imagine a tree. Got it? Okay. Did your tree, or does Or like this? Or maybe even like that? Probably not. I bet each and everyone of you Because the word tree is a public Now, you could say, these personal imaginations that we have so they're useless for communication. We should focus on the word, And I would say, The problem with words is it's hard to relate them Now, a drawing can build a bridge between the personal experience of a tree the word, the conventional word. And it's crucial that this drawing Let's have a look at a very conventional that keeps haunting flip charts I would argue the light bulb It's a mere substitute for word. So it doesn't add If, on the other hand, we have then that can supplement So if you want to convey you can help make it stick And the fact that this drawing is not a problem; this is actually where its power lies. Because you can lead other people to connect them and understand And for that to happen, these drawings Okay, these are just five ways how drawing can support your thinking: it can ignite our intuition, make our lives more beautiful, help us understand, imagine new things, If you make drawing a daily habit, it will be a dramatic And please remember: Our drawings do not have If they help us to think they are good enough. Thank you. (Applause)