One of the most common attributes folks imagine sound they make as they roll down the tracks. anymore. Or really, I should say, most rails still pretty clickety-clacky, but they're far those rhythmic clicks and clacks came from Those joints were a solution to a transportation problem: you can only roll out a length of rail so long before it gets difficult to move them around. It's can be bolted together in place. But, they You might be familiar with the idea of an handrail or bridge deck or building meant to from changes in temperature. I actually made a on railroads were bridged by fish plates, would have room to grow. But look for a joint on We're in the middle of a deep dive series on out the other videos after this one. A lot of new CWR that eliminates most joints. Large structures account for thermal expansion and contraction how do modern railways get away with it? I have and this is Practical Engineering. Today As much as I enjoy a good conspiracy, the kind of special steel that doesn't expand or contraction and expansion. In the US, they would general, tracks would be laid out so that on would just barely close. But, this style of practical problems of railroad construction) it was noisy! The famous clickety-clack of over each joint on the track. I'm a simple man. or as they say in Korean, "chikchikpokpok". consider how long a train is, and the fact and that train journeys can be hundreds of The railroad companies might say too many, because over a joint in the rail, that impact batters location. Try as they might, railroads could rest of the rail, meaning that (in addition to load on the ballast below, and the flexing in a phenomenon called rock and roll. All this cost of keeping railroads in service. And it's why it's a huge reduction in the maintenance costs In CWR, rail segments are welded together using some cases, THERMITE welding. These welds have of course, are ground smooth, so they lack contract with changes in temperature like most I've set up an aluminum rod on the and the other free to move. I put a dial tiny changes in the length of the rod. we're already starting at a fairly warm rather than wait for the weather to get even Notice the dial on the indicator This is an example of unrestricted thermal the rod from growing under the increase the change in length from most materials difference in starting and ending temperatures by look up in a table. This aluminum rod expands increases in temperature. Steel is about half joints and jointed rail are designed to allow comes, the materials expand into the gap. That's up stress and stress is what breaks things. But, joints is that changes in temperature aren't the I've set up another demo using that same this length of pipe and put a nut and washer on just like before. Now, watch what happens when I the whole rod twists. But if you can keep the other end from twisting, you can see the dial There's no change in temperature here; this is a Turning this nut applies a tension force to Just as all materials have a mostly linear and length change, all materials also have a in length (often called strain). If you stress (or plastic) deformation. But within a certain to its original length if the stress is removed. expansion is the thermal coefficient, the slope is called the elastic modulus. And this is restrained thermal expansion. You can overcome one Here you can see me using a hydraulic press in a I get this iron pipe set up in the press with cylinder and table, about 3 tons. Then I heat up think will happen? Will the hydraulic press break it wasn't quite as dramatic as I was hoping, corresponds to about a quarter of a ton of You can kind of think of this in two separate but then the additional force from the hydraulic thermal and elastic deformations canceled each reality, the force required to counteract thermal think the frame of my hydraulic press wasn't quite you still get the point: you can trade temperature changing in size. With a little recreational get a single one that gives you the stress in a So that's just what railroads with CWR do: it tight and restrict its movement, allowing it temperature changes. Of course, too much stress a bit before it gets close to that. Railway below freezing to over 100 degrees F or 40 C. than 2 feet longer on the hot days than the would expand by roughly half a meter, if it wasn't we can see that fully restraining the rail stress of about 15,000 psi or 100 megapascals, way modern steel, especially the fancy alloys they particularly for compression. Just because a steel does), that doesn't mean it won't fail under We're back to the aluminum rod, but this time condition. Now watch what happens when I apply the up stress so that the elastic strain is equal happens. Instead, the rod just deflects sideways, is relatively strong under compression, the long tracks) is particularly prone to buckling. it's a pretty serious problem. The material at being a railway since trains need rails Many train derailments have happened because a an effect colloquially known as sun kink. about compressive stress in a rail, and in the US, procedures for installing, adjusting, inspecting, the tricks they use to manage buckling is adding demo for you. The formula for the critical force is pretty simple. Notice that the force goes structural member squared. This is much clearer in and I can apply a force with my finger that about 375 grams to buckle the rod. But watch centerpoint, effectively halving its length. force from my finger. It happens right around formula. Halve the length, quadruple the critical is really important because it affects whether or one of the most important jobs of all that the ties in place and keep them from sliding The other way railroads use to manage buckling is, undergoing compression at all. Any continuous essentially the temperature it was the day which the rail experiences no stress at all. the rail experiences tensile stress, and if the rail experiences compressive stress. The neutral temperature to ensure the rail The Central Florida Rail Corridor has a neutral only install rail on hot days, and if they temperature up. And if they can't do that, they tensile forces in the rails before they're welded they have to go out and inspect the rails but a small break in a rail is nothing compared derailment, so it just makes sense to use as high Of course, you always get to the end of or older length of jointed rail. To keep you need something more than a small gap. called breathers) use diagonal tapers. to transition smoothly from one section of rail thermal movement. And joints are also needed to crossings and signals. So railroads often use to electrically isolate two sections of rail cover track circuits in a future video Even with its challenges, continuous and wheels and makes for a much smoother for the soothing clickety-clack to know that railways are continuously This video had quite a bit of math to explain effects. I do my best to stay out of the weeds do like to give you a peek behind the curtain I don't want anyone to feel intimidated, but form the basis of engineering, and if you want to knowing a bit of math will take you a long that not only really easy, but also free, with really advanced topics. Brilliant has been six years now. It's the longest partnership I is people watching this channel just keep finding way. That and they keep adding new lessons every it did back when they first started sponsoring keep finding new topics to brush up on, like built in interpreter to show you how to connect reading or hearing but by doing, and that's why when you're actually using the information free for 30 days and see if it's something get better at a hobby, or just enjoy the brilliant.org/PracticalEngineering or click like this product and I think you will too. Thank