The Northeast Morning Market is a combination of breakfast stalls and open-air markets. It is not only part of the daily life of locals, but also has a breakfast culture that is affordable, plentiful, and rich in carbohydrates. It has made many southern children cry and want to go. visit. Today, I invite you all to join me on a tour of this lively Northeastern morning market! Hello aunt! Hello uncle! These are celery knots. Celery knots? Is it used for pickles? right! It's used for pickling pickles, it's so delicious! Come on, I'm done pretending. How much does it cost per pound? If it sells for 6 yuan per catty (12 yuan per kilogram) in two days, there will be no more celery lumps . Put some in this bag! Put some in this bag! Okay, okay, it's okay, it's okay! Celery knots can be stored, so it doesn't matter if you store more. Northeastern pickle sauce is rich in flavor and is especially good with rice, but this is my first time to eat celery root. With the addition of various seasonings, the unique taste of celery has been weakened a lot, and it is still very good as a side dish with rice. How delicious would it be if you bought this celery head and dipped it in the sauce? This thing is not easy to clean. I just picked and washed it little by little. You have to pick and clean the unwashed ones yourself. How can you eat celery root if you have to wash it until midnight? Eat it at home or dip it in sauce! Okay, okay, okay. Did you buy celery root for more than 50 yuan yesterday? It's not me. I bought something worth more than 20 yuan yesterday. I know that the woman bought something worth 50 yuan yesterday. It's already 68 yuan. If you put some more aside, you can make up 70 yuan! 68.7 yuan. How much does pickled celery root cost? It's 30 yuan per kilogram. Can you bring me some and I'll try it? I want 5 yuan, okay? Okay, okay, come back after you eat well! Okay. I sell everything from Gaba to Gaba. I sell everything from Karma to Gaba. Well, you sold it too expensively! It takes so much time to make this pickled vegetable, but it's also delicious! Celery root is troublesome to clean , not easy to wash, and it has to be delicious. This is celery root made by a chef, a serious chef. Can you make it? I'll give you some more! Just 5 yuan is enough. I can't eat much by myself. Okay, this one I made is not salty! Traditional hot noodle tea can only be drunk in Jinzhou. This breakfast called &quot;tea&quot; is actually made of millet noodles that have been boiled for a long time. Since it needs to be simmered over low heat to bring out the aroma of millet, and the base of the noodle tea must not be burnt, someone needs to stand by the pot and stir constantly. This kind of traditional breakfast that is time-consuming, labor-intensive and not profitable is becoming increasingly rare. Sesame paste water and yellow rice cakes are added to the noodle tea. The sesame paste water provides a light salty taste, and the fried crispy balls of the yellow rice noodles add a bit of oil to the fragrant noodle tea and enrich the taste. In order to maintain a crispy texture, yellow rice cakes are only added to the noodle tea when drinking. What time did you get up to make the noodle tea? At four o'clock , add some sesame paste water, and it will have this sticky feeling. It smells like noodles. The noodle tea I make is thicker than others. Thank you, brother. Is this the sesame paste water? The skin of the beef patty of &quot;Old Beijing Palace Crispy Beef Patty&quot; is both soft and chewy. After being stretched and wrapped one by one, the baked beef patty is crispy in layers and has an attractive oily aroma. Do you want to come here? No, the beef patties need to be turned over. It's hard to make breakfast in the winter. Just turn it over and it'll be fine after a while. Yes, it'll be faster after turning it over. Can you go home and put together these shots? Yes, yes, connect it into a long video. The footage just now cannot be connected. I forgot to adjust it. Where are you from? There are too many self-media companies in Qingdao now. Well, is there anyone selling this in Qingdao? There should be, right? How many are in this pot? More than 20 thanks boss! Hey, it's okay. Do you have millet porridge? Have two drinks! I'd like a cup of lily porridge. Okay, wait a minute! &quot;Breakfast nutritious porridge: 1.5 yuan ~ 2.5 yuan/cup&quot; WeChat payment is 2.5 yuan and I will make millet porridge in a while. Thank you boss! Thank you! &quot;Xiangxiang one-yuan meat clips: chicken meat clips are 1 yuan each, pork meat clips are 1.5 yuan each&quot; Hello boss! Rou Jia is a specialty breakfast in Jinzhou. The golden pancakes are sandwiched with fragrant bacon. They are not greasy and filling. Locals like to buy three or five of them and pair them with a cup of soy milk, which is a perfect meal. If friends from out of town try it for the first time, it is recommended to choose the pork version, because the chicken version will taste drier, while the pork version will be more oily and palatable. Your meat is ready! Slow down! I'd like four chicken nuggets. OK! My card will never expire. Whenever you want to eat, you can bring a card to exchange for the meat tongs. Meat dumplings are only available in Jinzhou, right? Yes, this is a Jinzhou specialty . Are all the meat folders filled with bacon? Yes, it's all bacon, both chicken and pork are smoked. The traditional way is to use bacon, right? Well, &quot;Thank you to old customers: buy 3 meat clips and get a card, collect 5 cards to exchange for a chicken meat clip, and collect 6 cards to exchange for a pork meat clip.&quot; WeChat payment is 4 yuan . Thank you for your patronage, welcome to visit next time! I still have soy milk here! After collecting all the cards, come back and exchange them for meat clips! Hmm, the biscuits need to be baked in layers to fit the bacon, right? right! Collect all the cards and exchange them for meat clips! OK! What to eat today? Three chicken tenders. OK! WeChat payment is 9 yuan. Thank you for your patronage. Welcome to visit us next time! &quot;Braised pork burrito: Vegan 3 yuan each, vegetarian 5 yuan each, beef burrito 7 yuan each&quot; Braised beef took the money from this person first. Vegan with eggs, 6.5 yuan each. Do you want to eat chili, aunt? Should I use a small electric pot to keep the braised pork warm? Yes, it's too cold. When I was editing the video, I discovered that the boss made the burritos on an induction cooker. Breakfast stall owners are always full of imagination when it comes to coping with the severe cold climate in the Northeast . A total of 6.5 yuan, right? Yes, she added an egg for change of 3.5 yuan. Stir-fried bean sprouts and stir-fried shredded potatoes . Auntie, I'll give you 3.5 yuan! Eggs are 1.5 yuan each? Yes, eggs are 1.5 yuan each, it says on the price tag! You didn't see it, did you? The vegetarian burrito also has a lot of fillings, right? Yes, are the rich eggs braised eggs? Yes, it's braised eggs. A little less hot sauce? Well, use less and add fried bean sprouts, fried potato shreds, braised bean skins, and kelp shreds. Add braised beef, kelp shreds, and potato shreds. Are they all added? Yes, it has all the normal vegetables, plus meat and eggs as required. Two pieces of cornmeal pancakes! Okay, 3 bucks? How much? Two large cornmeal pancakes cost 1.5 yuan. Hello boss! To make gluten cakes, &quot;potato shredded cakes are 1.5 yuan, salt cakes/sugar cakes/bean paste cakes are 1 yuan, gluten cakes are 5 yuan/catty.&quot; Are raisins and red dates added to the cake? Well, yes. How much is it? 10 yuan per kilogram. The cornmeal steamed buns and cornmeal pancakes are freshly baked, and the glutinous rice cakes are reversible. Give me two, one yuan each, right? right! This kind of fluffy and soft pancakes made of flour and cornmeal are called pot stickers. They are made on the pot, so there is nothing wrong with the name. &quot;Liu Ji Donkey Meat Fire Spoon: 1.5 yuan each&quot; Hello boss, let me take a picture. You have to go to the store selling fried dough sticks in the west to buy it . This pot of fire spoon will be ready when you buy it back. Is this a donkey meat fire spoon? Yes, donkey meat fire spoon. Sales are poor in winter, and customers come to the market later. It's getting cold. Yes, it's cold and people get up late. People in Jinzhou love to eat this hot spoon. Yes, this is pure old-school fire spoon. I feel that this donkey meat fire spoon is larger than those beef fire spoons. Something different. It smells so good! Well, it's almost out of the pot? Yes, take it out right away. It takes just over three minutes to cook in one pot, and it's crispy on the outside and tender on the inside. How much will it cost if I want 3 more? I can't add more, sisters, the fire ladles are not enough. I see, aren't there more than 4 more there? Those were what the elder sister wanted, and she bought them for 30 yuan. There is no more for me... Then the eldest sister suddenly asked for 30 yuan? Well, the eldest sister bought a fire spoon for 30 yuan, and we are all repeat customers. There are 25 in a pot, and almost all of them belong to her. Do you flatten the cake dough when you want to bake it? Yes, flatten it before searing. Is there any significance to this? If you flatten them in advance, they will not fluff well when baked. Flatten now after baking, and become more fluffy after baking. Oh, the fire spoon puffs up better. Yes, when it comes out of the pot, it will be charred on the outside and tender on the inside . The donkey meat stuffed with onions is salty, fragrant and oily, and it is worth eating again and again. &quot;Wu Ji Shaomai and Lamb Soup&quot; Hello boss! Hello! What is the filling of these siomai? Beef stuffed with onions. How much does a cage cost? 8 yuan per cage, 10 pieces per cage. I'll give you the bag and you can pack the tea eggs yourself. I want two portions of Shaomai and a bowl of mutton soup. Do you still have to wait 7 minutes? Yes, this is the second pot, and these people in line are still waiting. Okay, then I'll wait. Because this pot is gone and the siomai is gone, we have to wait for the next pot to be steamed. WeChat collects 8 yuan. Someone wants to take a picture of you holding Shaomai . I wonder what you take. Don't be nervous. Relax! I'm not nervous... &quot;Xujia Yuanxiao, sticky bean buns, rice cakes&quot; rice cakes... No rice cake balls? have! Where are the rice cake balls? How many sticky bean buns do you want? It only costs about ten yuan. Will these work? Can! How much does a pound of sticky bean buns cost? 10 yuan for 3 pounds of rice cake balls and 10 pieces for 5 yuan. I want 5 yuan. What about this rice cake roll? I want those small balls for 3 yuan each . Okay, for 5 yuan , can I give you 10 yuan? 10.7 yuan, which is 0.7 yuan less for me. Is that okay? ! This ball-shaped donkey roll is stuffed with white sugar, sesame seeds and crushed peanuts, which is more suitable for eating in summer. The money has been paid! How many small flower rolls did you buy at once? Take it home and freeze it. Oh, freeze it and eat it later, huh? Well, here are the small flower rolls for 10 yuan. Hello, brother. Squeezing pomegranate juice on such a cold day. My hands are suffering, what should I do if the customer wants to drink? How much does a cup of this cost? 15 yuan for two cups. Two pomegranates for 15 yuan? No, for 15 yuan for two cups of pomegranate juice , I juice the customers for free. Oh, the customer buys a pomegranate and you juice it for free. Yes, this is a free service. What we sell is pomegranates. The pulsating bottle that the uncle brought with him can fit two cups of pomegranate juice in one bottle. Hey, it's full of &quot;sugar-free corn pancakes&quot;. The black ones are black rice pancakes, and the white ones are rice pancakes. They have the same taste, both are very soft and sweet. Hey, here we come, uncle! Wait for me for a while! Hello boss. Hello. Is that pot of cornmeal pancakes almost ready? Wait a moment. Are there any pancakes with rims? The pancakes are all about the edges and the middle. I want the pancakes with the edges. Not all pancakes are made of Bian'er, uncle! How many pancakes would you like? two. 1.5 yuan. WeChat payment 1.5 yuan. Are the prices of these three types of cakes the same? Yes, they are both 1.5 yuan each. How many can you buy with five yuan? 7 pieces for 5 yuan , no wonder they asked me to bring 5 yuan pancakes! Give me a three-dollar tortilla! Give me something white, not the bottom one. WeChat payment is 4.5 yuan. You want white, black and yellow pancakes, right? right! Wait for a while, they will all be in pairs, and there will be no pair of each color for 1.5 yuan! Oh, together they make a pair? Yes, yes, I want a pair of yellow ones and a pair of black ones, right? A pair of yellow ones and a pair of black ones, right? Hmm, wait a minute. How much is the total of my pancakes? 4.5 yuan. The taste of the staple food is getting better and better now, and the hot pancakes just out of the oven taste like cakes. What are the black pancakes made of? Black rice! Hello boss, let me take a photo. Oh, shoot it! Thank you. Are the eggs freshly fried? I've been busy with you since morning. Well, I see that some of them have fried eggs in advance at home. The taste of the meat and egg burger is different. The meat and egg burgers in Jinzhou are really cheap, only 3.5 yuan each. Yes, where are you from? From Qingdao. How many meat and egg burgers do you want, sister? I want three