Translator: Tina Huynh What inspires you? How inspired are you by the thoughts you think, the words you use, the feelings you feel, and the core values It's not so black and white, and there are many missing The more information we have on diet, exercise and weight loss, the higher the rates and life dissatisfaction we have than ever before in history. I'm going to leave you One, how greater self-love And two, how to cultivate more of it. One of the first and most basic is a connection through love, a bond. I remember, like it was yesterday, feeling so much love who in my eyes was the most She was a mix between and she could do no wrong. I used to love watching her get dressed, dressing in beautiful outfits. I would always compliment her. &quot;Mom, that dress is so beautiful on you! Oh, I love that. That looks so good!&quot; And in return, I would receive, &quot;This? Oh God no. I look so fat today. Like a slap in the face. I felt wrong. I was wrong while I was extending love because of a block of her own. When will it be that we stop looking outside ourselves that we know comes from within? Maybe if we felt that true depth of worth we wouldn't constantly be comparing and feeling that if they succeed, If they're good, I must be bad. This natural scarcity and this feeling When will it end? I know it's possible for us and see true beauty, see love, with kindness, compassion, empathy, and true magnanimous love. Magnanimous is deeper It goes to the depths true depth. Diets don't work. Love does. Negative emotions while positive emotions We make better choices when we come from And we feel it right here. Did you know we have on average And did you know are repeats from yesterday. And that about 80% of them are negative towards ourselves or somebody else. How do you think all that negativity Love. It's one of those first things we feel, but while we go through these experiences I want to get closer to you I'm in awe of you. And yet little bit by little bit I feel very fortunate Upon being born, I was removed and they were told I was not alright, I had to be taken away and true fear came over them, What I didn't realize at the time was that all the attention - all the love, healing, the worry, the positive vibes that were in all my many visits to the hospital, checking up on me, unbeknownst to me, Did you know positive emotions actually strengthen We can literally harden through negative emotion. It's quite fascinating. Gratitude. We've learned and we know it is that secret ingredient. I feel very grateful that my mortality You have a problem. I wasn't sure there was always So I lived in gratitude. And I knew the feeling when my mom didn't like my compliments that I didn't want to do that to others. These were two really great Interestingly enough though, it wasn't until the biggest life lesson, came to teach me something The true depth of self-love. Day after day, thousands and moms are feeling the pressure. Feeling the pressure of looking a certain way, of doing certain things But we don't really want to lose weight We don't want to focus on things that we should be superficially We want to focus on the love, But I, too, fell prey and I was worried after I had gained worrying that, &quot;What would people think of me I had all these preconceived notions What I needed to do to keep up. What I made sure that I should do And you know what I did? I gave myself a really, really, I injured my back to the point in a single week. My babies were just I was not able to lift them. I was not able to bathe them. I was not able to care for them in the way that me, as a young new mom, This brought up in me I didn't even realize &quot;Well, sure, I'll eat this, because then I can go work out I had all these weird stories and messages that I didn't even realize Not being able to exercise, not being able to work up a sweat, and even having pain just breathing allowed me to learn the true essence It's the innercise, the inside work, for me to rehabilitate From the time that I hurt myself, I learned everything I wanted to understand exactly how and through this, I learned about the deep I learned how to rehabilitate it and breathe in a way And this after years of training to new moms. Now knowing - If I knew then what I knew now, that was the most contraindicated thing I actually put them in front of danger, This is the lesson I learned. I was able to write a book called knowing that being a fit mama It's not about all those that you think you need to do, It's all about slowing down, This is our second brain right here. And after the trauma so many moms We want to be in our but instead, we're in our heads feeling shame, regret, &quot;I didn't go to the gym,&quot; it never ends. This does not need to be the way. And I truly feel that we as a collective through education and through giving them I specifically wanted to target Weight loss, weight loss, weight loss. We judge people over and above What if instead of weight loss, What about letting go that feeling of unworthiness. That should never up for debate. You are worthy. You began that way. You will end that way. That never needs to change. Trust that. Trust that knowledge. We have such ingrained patterns, neural pathways that we have created, formulated from all those stories all those experiences Did you know there is no survival adaptive None whatsoever. We can give it up. It's going to be uncomfortable, but it will feel good as you lay down filled with self-love. Chocolate cake. Once a symbol of loving, fun celebration, now a poster-child shame, regret, cheating, bad! I want to tell you about a study They had two groups, and they asked them They divided them One group was the guilty group. &quot;I'm guilty, I'm bad, The other group that ate did so in celebration and fun. That was their mindset. They didn't put the mindset on them. Those were the two groups What they found when they later tested was that the guilty group in the stress hormone cortisol, which we all know is a sign if your cortisol is shooting Now not only is the guilty group feeling negative emotions but in fact, in the longer term, those guilty folks and weighed more in the long run. Guilt: also not a positively adaptive ... emotion. There is no cheating, just choosing. Choose the foods you eat. Don't use them, but choose them consciously. But not from your head, where you are thinking, &quot;That person said that's bad.&quot; Get it out and bring it down, bring it down into the positive remembering a time This is where the magic is. It starts from the heart. It moves into the core, where you trust that the beliefs are worthy. All we want is connection. We want love. We want to feel loved not because of how we look, but because of who we are on the inside. We want to connect with amazing people, and yet we are down here saying, &quot;Oh no. No, I'm ugly. I have shame. Low vibration. Those two are not going to connect. I want to leave you because I don't recommend things to others The first thing: positive self-talk only. Under no circumstances for the fact that you missed the gym or you ate a piece of cake You don't deserve it, Make a pact. Number two: Remember those 98% of your thoughts Let's ditch them. That leaves you over 68,000 thoughts thank you, thank you for this day, thank you for my heart beating. You could find 68,000 things in a day that are for sure going to and inspire you much more And third: take time every single day to breathe. Breathe into that heart space Positive emotions will keep Breathe into your core. Understand how it works. Get deeper than the superficial. There's always more than meets the eye. And lastly, I am going to leave you with this quote, that if you can love the body you will have the body Thank you. (Applause)