The Dark Side of the Force was nothing if not strength, tempting even righteous beings into abyss, suffocating all else until its victims corruption is one we've discussed many times greater depth some other time. Because we're not begins - we're here to talk about how the stories of two of the most fearsome Sith a Lord of Hunger, while the other was a Lord They followed the path of the Dark Side to its powerful Sith the galaxy had ever seen. Their be using their stories to understand the true The path to the Dark Side could begin with Side corrupted its victims, those goals had power. The Sith embraced this, claiming that the and in their paths down the Dark Side, they cutting out anything that would slow them down made it to the Dark Side's ultimate extreme what sorts of power they were concerned with. Even two specific kinds of power - ultimate strength goals - but the two we'll be discussing Nihilus and Sion are the antagonists of Star Wars: in which they act as the leaders of Sith remnants Sith Empire. The game establishes that they were particularly the conflict's gruesome final superweapon caused such enormous casualties that the now-ravaged planet. Nihilus and Sion and wherever they went, they took the horrors galaxy. Their goal was simple, but devastating These Sith believed that the war against was the only thing that mattered, for should would be triumphant and the galaxy would be Sith Empire ruled. The world of politics and was insubstantial to Nihilus and Sion. Their war be said to represent a "purer" form of the Sith They operated as the Sith were meant to operate - Force, and feeding on the atrocities that resulted empires and the trappings of power, only with what These two Sith Lords are some of the clearest call "end-state" Dark Side users, Sith of the Dark Side and have allowed it to Sith who had attained the ultimate goals of we can gain an understanding of the power it offers. We will start with Darth Darth Nihilus was the Lord of Hunger, a black when the planet died at the close of he learned terrible techniques that made he grew powerful enough that he was able to escape Republic battlecruiser Ravager, from the planet's Sith remnants and they became his slaves, bound his crew wandered the darkness between the stars, of Sith remnant ships would emerge from the Nihilus is fairly well-known among Star then you've probably heard it said that he ate his abilities, but it wasn't entirely wrong. a hunger for the living Force, which he could enormous scale. He severed connections between and he fed on the death such techniques caused. and Force nexuses could sustain him for he could feed on non-Force sensitives During the Dark Wars, Nihilus was drawn to any Jedi couldn't gather in one place, lest he detect Katarr, where the Jedi Council called a conclave together they would be able to determine the succeeded - when they gathered upon Katarr, their and Nihilus came for them. When he arrived, every the planet's Miraluka colonists to the smallest the Lord of Hunger - all but a single Miraluka, Nihilus embodied one of the two forms with - ultimate strength. The immensity of and the ability to consume a planet's worth of inarguably be a form of ultimate power. And as power was enough for Nihilus. The hunger devoted to consumption, to gaining ever greater he had consumed the galaxy - and from there, he power was all he was, and it dominated his With that in mind, it's worth examining the depth. So far, we've been vague about how because our source material is, too. While it's by directly draining life from all living things it's also implied that Nihilus could feed his fleet attacked Telos at the climax of the targeting civilians directly, and when his everything in their path. Nihilus fed on these that, to an extent, the actual destruction while Nihilus fed on the effects. But while that nature is not. While Nihilus's power may seem like fundamental to the Dark Side, based on techniques The Force connected all living things, binding ways. Use of the Force was a matter of drawing on depended on the alignment of the Force adept in times, opened themselves up to the collective will which generally contributed to the strengthening things, while Darksiders denied the will of with others for selfish ends. Jedi preferred Force to strengthen life around them, while the drawing on those bonds to steal strength But not all bonds in the Force were such as those between Force-sensitives and such as their trainers or apprentices. to extreme effect - Lightsiders could use them strengthen others considerably, and even take could use these bonds to drain the other person history of the galaxy who could form these and even subconsciously. These people would strengthening them or sapping their wills by their acts as the player character in KOTOR II, was one In KOTOR II, Kreia claims that Nihilus's It was the foundation of virtually to different extents, fed upon the Force, to drain strength and power for themselves. But creating these strong Force bonds and draining completely consuming the Force the other person would be worse than dead - But Darth Nihilus was one of those with the around them as a matter of instinct, and once he tremendous power. That was all his but devastating. He made bonds with everyone as was the case with his crew, over long periods connection to Malachor - much like the Jedi Force that had been created there within him. constantly feed on everything around him - it was that was a void that could never be filled, and Nihilus himself was what he made others into - Throughout KOTOR II, it's repeatedly emphasized that are most familiar with Darth Nihilus, that Visas claims, he's more presence than flesh, an effect of his abilities, but rather an inevitable "one cannot have power of that magnitude that the universe as most of us do." They aren't has a physical human body, though Kreia does say matters, being "so consumed by hunger that he has that has ceased to be human. His all-consuming spirit and perceptions into something alien to In the past, we've talked about how the path of and in Darth Nihilus, we see an extreme isn't as unique as he might appear. been so consumed by their obsession with that was virtually a requirement for being a Sith. and it was spiritually destructive in the extreme. scale of his power; while most Sith continued to abilities warped his perceptions until he On the surface, this might seem Nihilus's incredible power. Many to have such power that other individuals as the mites on your skin is as close to ultimate in KOTOR II, if you express such sentiments This insight is essential to understanding and their scale is vast - but he completely his consumption of the Force isn't even presence - as you can see through the state of around Nihilus slowly drains people. His power control it - and as a result, it isn't really But Kreia doesn't just reveal power - she reveals that his This completely recontextualizes Darth Nihilus's was - but both the hunger and the power weren't and they had grown into a force in their own This hunger even had its own will and instincts, Force to consume. Nihilus himself had no choice hunger led him. That he was more presence was not a sign of tremendous strength, but the entity, and Nihilus himself was nothing. a slave to his own all-consuming hunger. only follow where his hunger led him. This is why had no independence of action or thought, and what trapped within a shell of a body Visas observes this at the end of KOTOR II, all the times he's spoken of as some he does die in the end. If you let her, Visas will her answer is brief - "a man, nothing more." Darth one of his own creation. He was hollow - and so Darth Nihilus might seem like an anomaly among and no other Sith Lord became so consumed than living being, as Nihilus did. But hunger Nihilus parallels a different sort of insatiable history of the Sith - the hunger of empires. a hunger in their own right. Like Darth Nihilus, which they understand as constant consumption. resources to consume to justify their own and growth never satisfies them. They expand invariably begin to turn back upon themselves. experienced over the millennia, and one that Darth Much as Nihilus was consumed by the hunger consumed by the hunger of empires. Dark Lords Darth Sidious were among them; these beings saw a method of attaining wealth and influence Darth Nihilus only in that they were preoccupied which, to Nihilus and his contemporaries, truly mattered. But the principle was the same So Darth Nihilus wasn't as he was representative of the core truths KOTOR II emphasizes this by having the philosophy eerily echo those used by the In converting Visas Marr to his cause, Nihilus bringing order. Ironically, there's more truth for the Empire - with the Empire, the idea but with Nihilus, there was a sort of twisted shamelessly steal a line from Tacitus, the Lord All this is to say that Darth Nihilus embodies and its empires, the eternal push for expansion, consumption is completely meaningless - the hunger and no matter how much must be destroyed for and no order, either. Much like Darth empires are hollow, and so are their rulers. With back on itself, as we mentioned earlier As Kreia said, Nihilus's hunger consumed him in the later stages of his life, his and Jedi was not done entirely out of a desire torment. When Nihilus didn't feed, his power Nihilus's own insatiable hunger was ultimately without end and demands constant growth, Nihilus's or later. As the Jedi neared extinction, it would himself, and the hunger would have consumed him he had been weakened enough that he was able to was largely because the Exile's disconnection attempts at draining the Force from her, desperate enough to attack Telos and put Such was the case with many Sith over the years. were always bound to turn back on them, and Darth himself. That's the first major lesson Darth its inherently self-destructive nature. But as well - how this self-destructive nature As we discussed before, the strength and power of what seemed like power was actually the more that power controlled him - and the he had all but ceased to exist, while his too great and turned back on its host. Nihilus wasn't really any of him left by that point. And The Sith Code laid out a battle plan with the however, was very specific. The path begins which helps one gain power, which helps one claims, a Sith's "chains are broken," and they the Sith only understood "freedom" as it plan. Freedom, to the Sith, meant a total lack Now, freedom as a concept is something but freedom isn't an end in itself. Freedom what matters is what you can do with that from. And when the Sith talked about freedom, anything worthwhile in life - instead, the restrictions that held them back from the they only valued power as an end in itself; the Sith would see as another restriction. This a hollow goal that was built into the path of just a matter of Sith philosophy, but something Thus, any Sith that got far enough down the out like Darth Nihilus. No matter what power they because it would eventually become the only control them. The freedom dreamed of by the when the only thing you live for is the pursuit of bereft of independent thought And for the many Sith that followed Nihilus's but self-destruction. Those who sought ultimate in the Force or absolute imperial control, one which was doomed to consume itself, and Darth Nihilus - as well as for Naga Sadow, empire-builders one and all, each former partners in empire, and each of But Darth Nihilus's path wasn't the only end foundational and the most common, as it was the Dark Side. But some Sith pursued other rather, ultimate strength was one of two goals with the other being eternal life. To understand Nihilus and discuss the other Sith Lord Darth Sion, the Lord of Pain, was no less fearsome operated were considerably different. Sion, and unlike Nihilus, he and his Sith assassins was impersonal; the casualties were staggering, and the individual lives lost didn't even register slaughter, driven solely by the desire to But Sion was no ordinary Sith warrior, alone. His flesh was a deathly gray, his entire body was covered in wounds. And as examined him aboard the cruiser Harbinger, What held Darth Sion together was the Dark body was dead a thousand times over, so utterly to remain in one piece. But through sheer force Sion was not only able to telekinetically hold his it. This came at a cost - Sion felt excruciating this pain, and the extreme depths of his own anger fuel his command of the Dark Side, which he yet more pain. It was a vicious cycle, but one Sion, too, was spawned from the horrors of an active role in the Sith Empire established by the self-destructiveness of empires, and of Darth Light Side and Darth Malak was slain, the Sith but brutal struggle for power. Sion was in and he watched with disgust as the Sith turned on To an extent, Darth Sion saw through the lie of that drove Darth Nihilus. He understood and unlike Nihilus, who maintained a fleet drawn assets were his assassins, and he seized and them. But Sion, too, had bought into the lie of which he instead sought to achieve through Sion also contrasts with Nihilus in that he was was entirely driven by his instincts - or rather, were all very intentional and conscious. he embraced it. He consciously held his own body life was lived by choice. And while Nihilus fed Jedi because he wanted to - it was his only chosen for himself. But the motivations behind and unformed. He was driven simply by a desire In this respect, Nihilus can claim to at least touched on earlier, Nihilus had a rationalization a fairly bare-bones and unconvincing ideology, but ideology beyond the basic precepts of the motivated by teachings or beliefs, but by Anger and hatred were only a few of the strong Dark Side. Most commonly, the path to the which were positive but could lead those sorts of strong emotions became weaknesses to purge themselves of them. That was the goal of which involved the inductee killing the person off their emotional grounding in the universe. the Sith saw strong emotions like love attaining true freedom, distractions But darker emotions like anger and hate were of the path of the Dark Side. Anger and hatred of lashing out at perceived threats. They don't were anathema to the Sith - in fact, the more the angry and hateful they became. Though the Sith due to the isolation and loneliness brought on by had inflicted on themselves by cutting all their hatred were reliable sources of strength for the Sion's anger and hatred drove him towards death of all his enemies, and he sought to so that his victims would come to mirror goal usually just involved more violence, brute force - on two notable occasions out of the he sets straightforward but well thought-out saw no use in subtlety, Sion's approach was raw effective immortality. And even when he relied his goals were more complex than murder, he Sion's extreme hatred, of course, partially owed the Lord of Pain for nothing - his existence was him. He drew on his pain to fuel his power, and made him tougher as well - his constant withstanding normal sorts of pain, to the point source of power for him to draw on. The harder his Sion's pain, however, wasn't just physical. there was more to Darth Sion than hatred. Much which was a source of pain for him as much as of this trauma isn't entirely known. KOTOR II from his training at the hands of - spoiler alert and his lingering trauma from it is throughout the game. It's also implied that Whatever the source, Sion buried his trauma deep hatred, and a burning desire for revenge source of power - not his physical pain, but Sion's trauma utterly consumed him, squeezing it was all he was. It fueled him to the point of one - to spread his pain to those he believed had Sion's chosen purpose for himself was, from a abuse. In this, he's sort of a mirror image of the Light Side path. The journey of a Light helping heal the trauma of others; Darth Sion, many people in the real world, his response to to try to spread his pain to others. In the real cruelty, but Sion, at least, knows what he's Many Sith over the millennia lived consumed by their own unspoken pain and trauma them. Darth Vader was the most obvious example of and to an extent Darth Sidious. These Sith were prevented them from seeing any way out of their The teachings of the Sith urged those on to use it exactly as Darth Sion used hatred that they could use to fuel their their ability to use their pain in this way as pain killed the weak, they claimed, and focus and power. This was a philosophy Sion the Sith promised, it gave him tremendous But Sith who embraced this philosophy were sort of living - proof of it. There are more hatred, and not even Darth Sion was immune Side-conducive ones. His relationship with He clearly hated her, but at the same time he was taking his place. The final chapter of the game more complicated than he ever would have admitted respect she had for the Exile, to be acknowledged If the player character is female, all the fact that, in spite of everything he's Sion is attracted to the Exile. He hates himself he needs to purge, but he's unable to do so. prevent himself from feeling love. As a result, Sion even expresses some twisted form of fighting not out of hatred but from a desire the heart of Malachor. Compassion, of course, and Sion knew this - yet he No matter how much it affected his judgment, him in the end. Like Darth Nihilus, he so long before the Exile returned we need to circle back to Darth Sion's most Immortality was one of the primary goals of the of their order. In fact, that was the meaning Rakatan phrase darr tah, meaning "conqueror restriction on their power, the last chain stood in stark contrast to the views of the Jedi, came. The Jedi believed that, upon death, those losing their individuality but living on as part indeed, many Sith believed that Many believed that Sith and others who to Chaos upon death, a sort of hell but the extent to which this was true is Chaos was just a different interpretation Force - while the Jedi accepted the loss of to the hyper-individualistic Sith, such a The nature of the afterlife aside, death Sith of their power, and so the Sith constantly would be to achieve ultimate power, everlasting it would allow the strength of the Sith to of a mortal lifespan. Thus, most Sith at while some devoted their entire lives to trying Some Sith, among them Ajunta Pall, Marka Ragnos, a limited form as spectres, usually through this by becoming so attached to these particular into them, and as a result, when their the material world, tied to those objects. But as these spectres would have very limited power movement. Ajunta Pall, for example, tied his buried with him when he died, his spirit years until the redeemed Revan convinced him Other Sith pursued genuine immortality, and Darth Sidious. Darth Andeddu and Darth younger bodies for their spirits to inhabit when the bodies of random victims, which required souls, while Darth Sidious made clone bodies for meanwhile, experimented with micromanaging scientific method of attempting to cheat death futile one. All of these methods were limited Of all the Sith, Darth Sion was really immortality. Others could cheat death, sometimes but Darth Sion was able to will himself to with no limitations beyond his will to took tremendous strength of will, which Sion had lest his body fall apart on him. But allowing him to keep living through Where Darth Nihilus was an unstoppable and like his counterpart, he had achieved power. More impressively, he had achieved the form that only he was ever able to attain. it did have a single weakness, as HK-47 observed. Darth Sion was only immortal so long as he had the Exile only had to show him the truth the end of the day, much like with Darth As we've described already, Sion paid an form of his constant pain. But there were other choice but to remain firmly committed to hold himself together. But the Dark Side was the Sith lost themselves. They had to give to become creatures of anger and hatred alone. and for no purpose apart from increasing their we described earlier, the Dark Side destroyed Revenge of the Sith novelization details what "You killed her because, finally, when you could with her, when you could have been thinking It is in this blazing moment that of the Dark Side, the final cruelty of the Sith- Because now your self is all you will ever have. And within your furnace heart, Darth Sion, like Darth Vader, spent his life existence of his own making, one that he the cost. To keep living, he had to give because like Darth Nihilus, Sion was a slave kept Sion alive, and he had to sacrifice of anything that didn't fuel the Dark Side. To waking moment feeding the Dark Side forever, Darth Sion could live forever, but he had was a hollow goal, as revenge always is, and nothing - no purpose at all. And because he forever was meaningless. The eternal life he had In the end, what defeated Darth Sion Exile - whether the life he had lived had he could not escape the answer - that it was not. But the Exile was not the one who had was a defeat in and of itself, bereft of meaning gave him the choice of freeing himself - he realized the meaninglessness of his existence, Darth Sion achieved one of the ultimate goals of away, to abandon immortality, because it wasn't and as Sion learned, being condemned forever There's an interesting bit of despite the Jedi embracing death and the true, independent life after death was In the Revenge of the Sith novelization, the "[Eternal life is] the ultimate goal of it comes only through the release of comes through compassion, not greed. Only by letting go could one achieve living - because only through could one retain genuine connections connections that made life worth living That brings us to our last topic of discussion Republic II. Throughout the game, the faces of are Darth Sion and Darth Nihilus, but she alludes to a third Sith Lord that the Exile brings this final Sith Lord up once, and there's this final Sith Lord - Darth Traya, the Lord of the game, after she's manipulated the Exile the two former apprentices that had betrayed and she provides our third and final example of For reasons we'll get into later, Kreia is aligned with neither the Light Side nor seems to back this up - she shows up as and unlike with all your other companions, her her and your own Force alignment do. But this facade. Kreia claims to be neither Jedi nor Sith, This is evident at the end of the game, once the Force Sight ability while approaching Kreia Force alignment has changed, and she will show This, to be clear, is entirely in keeping with Kreia had her differences with the Sith, and had her own Dark Side philosophy, one firmly sharply different in its conclusions. Kreia Like Kreia's change in alignment, this is its predecessor, KOTOR II has many moments that the Light Side or Dark Side by doing particularly Light Side shift are all treated the same by earn you influence with your Light Side-leaning evil companions. But the game actually divides Cunning and Psychotic. Psychotic actions the staple of the Dark Side playthroughs of most stealing candy from small children, you influence with your evil companions and But both Good and Psychotic actions cost you respects are those that fall into the Cunning low on violence and heavy on deception and intricate plans. Put another way, the "cunning" to your own ends, seeing the connections between When Kreia's other teachings are taken as context, this aspect of the Dark Side sees the instead returning to the roots of Sith philosophy Side rejected the forms of meaningless but it clung to the foundations of the Dark Side, It glorified the strength of the individual an understanding of strength, power, and the So who was Darth Traya, exactly? The answer as the player knows her, took up the title Battle of Malachor V. Once, she had been a Jedi her greatest student, to war against the she was believed dead. But she had survived, and she became Sith. When Revan's Sith Empire remnants at Malachor, taking Darth Nihilus their war of extermination against the Jedi. stripped of the Force, and exiled. In she regained her connection to the Force. She At the end of the game, Kreia reclaims the title the Trayus Core, at the heart of Malachor. But final test for the Exile; Kreia was merely setting student to overcome. The title of Darth Traya was there's a point earlier in the game where she II has a fourth major antagonist, the Jedi Master to the Dark Side, and Kreia implied that she, too, Atris's journey down this path was ended so her story is a topic for another video of Darth Traya here is interesting. Darth a purpose that Kreia, at times, fulfilled. So who was Darth Traya? She was the Lord of whose teachings she found lacking. She saw those who opposed her, unraveling them and their to the path of the Dark Side, an alternative whispering promises of strength and doctrines of individualism Individualism was fundamental to the way of the it was a major factor in what divided the Dark the way of the Jedi, was completely concerned with and humility. The Jedi were servants of the Force's connective nature. The greatest among drain themselves of all sense of self, and become That's all to say that the way of the Light was the same as being anti-individuality, mind you - of living beings as a natural aspect of life. individualism, the prioritization of self-reliance from the perspective of the Jedi, there was really after all, and therefore no one could The Sith would disagree. They, and were individualist in the extreme - they living beings not as collective strengths to the strong could use to claim their rightful Side meant rejecting the Will of the Force, and instead of opening themselves up to the Darksiders tried to control those currents. well-being of the collective whole, the Sith with increasing their power by preying on others. struggling against one another to become stronger connection to the Force to climb to the top of the To do so, the Sith drew heavily on the Force. the Sith altered themselves to amplify their power wasn't anger or hatred to achieve ultimate Darth Nihilus, the Sith abused their bonds with stealing from the "weak" to increase their own their ends, and to increase their power they made Force. As the last line of the Sith Code claimed, Kreia, for the most part, agreed with Sith - she was an individualist, she believed and she worshiped strength and despised primarily in how they understood strength and In KOTOR II, Kreia explains this disagreement the mad Wookiee, joins the party. She teaches but she also gives them the choice of refuse to draw strength from Hanharr, they have learned the true lesson of strength - "to True strength and power, Kreia believed, can are perceived as strength and power, she taught, one is left as a shell of what they was the true failing of both Darth Nihilus and ended in self-destruction. They had both been they were dependent on the Force, without she begins expressing very early on in KOTOR Kreia's disagreement with the Sith Code shall free me." Because the Force was not true its users were dependent. Kreia believed in the struggle for ultimate power, but believed that and that, in reality, even the greatest of not freedom. Real ultimate power, Kreia believed, came from self-reliance and total independence That is the goal of the third and final path total independence. It is a path that and it's a path that betrays fundamental aspects of course, raises the question of whether Dark Side - to which the answer is yes. Even of the Dark Side would remain, and the same topic might be a video in itself, but for Independence from the Force, for those was an even more ambitious goal than eternal so thoroughly ingrained that both the Jedi and the the Force. Even so, there were means of cutting The Jedi had a technique that allowed them to capture the Sith Lord Ulic Qel-Droma during the this same technique by Darth Nihilus when he and chosen to deafen themselves to the Force, as were true examples of severance from the Force. off from the Force were just rendered unable to and they just couldn't access it. Kreia believed from the Force, because it still left those cut The Will of the Force was something that influence over all that were touched by the ends at times. And it was the Will of because its existence only reinforced that could ever genuinely be independent. the Force would still be able to use them of the Force manipulated all living things, But then there was the Exile, who had made ever made - she had chosen life without the was one of those who made strong Force bonds of Malachor V, she had experienced all transmitting their unspeakable pain through those And yet the Exile did survive - and she the Force so completely that it left a wound. off from the Force, and in that choice, But this could not be achieved just by repeating a galaxy bound together by the Force, and it still had a degree of influence and control her. Kreia's vision of independence The millennia of war that had consumed the with the largest being centered on Malachor V, galaxy off from the Force, to kill the Force the choice the Exile had faced - to cut themselves strength of will to make the Exile's choice, Kreia she believed, and deserved to die so that the As we mentioned earlier, Kreia is but like the more recent example of Baylan Skoll, and her willingness to cause the deaths have been opposed to fundamental aspects of the through and through. Her hostility to the Force the Dark Side was fundamentally a perversion of Kreia, of course, never achieved her end goal; the where she healed the wound in the Force there and from carrying out Kreia's plan. So we technically of the Dark Side would actually look like, but Obviously, this path is extreme, even more so of the Force would cause an omnicide on a truly the choice to survive, most would be unable to. a thing, which we aren't, even if it could true ultimate power - what would it be worth? We know, for example, what adherence even in opposition to the Force, did to Kreia. Her happened to Darth Nihilus and Darth Sion, but walked the path of the Sith, Kreia's adherence to the point where she was unable to see the so much death was evidence of this, as was her encounters in KOTOR II. Kreia couldn't even see who she next to never refers to by their categorical nicknames - Atton, for example, Hanharr was the Beast, Bao-Dur was the Alien, Kreia saw all those around her as tools, not who Kreia saw just as a unique And just as Kreia could not see the humanity as well. Her failure to see anyone else as a human connection, as did her ideology. She which she worshiped as a source of strength; to her, a constant zero-sum game of all exploit each other for their own ends. From such extremely desirable goals - because if life setting yourself up for betrayal. But fortunately Kreia was right in understanding that true with the Force - but where her ideology else. Because even without the Force, living something that Kreia never understood. Human and like it or not, its existence makes us all such thing as full independence, no such thing Kreia's other failing was in buying into the lie an endless struggle for strength and power. Such what there is in life, and what makes living but how they cooperate. Mutualism is a fact of are not there to be drained, but to be nurtured by This is a lesson Knights of the Old moments. At the start of the game, when the the leader of an Ithorian herd helping to to try and help heal your connection to the herd's disputes with Czerka Corporation. If the Kreia will regularly voice her objections; as she healing to be manipulation and cannot see Chodo she was simply projecting onto Chodo; he which she saw the world, and she was unable Chodo Habat was entirely straightforward in his and after Kreia casts doubt on his abilities to dead planet is entirely different from healing a "With all due respect, I believe you are wrong. In healing a planet, it is a matter of and animal populations thrive and grow, web of the Force. I have walked in the growing and perhaps that connection will help make you think on the surface. You, me, my herd, helped we describe the restoration as a process, we This is the lesson of the Light Side, one that a zero-sum game, and the most worthwhile not competition. Connections through the Force be exploited, but simply by virtue of their far greater strengths than the Sith could ever the strength of the greater whole, and above strength isn't the only thing that matters in our bonds would still be worth every aspect of ourselves is influenced by be celebrated. As KOTOR II takes great pains to and while this means we must be cautious it also means that we can all work to strengthen That was the true meaning of the choice the Exile even after a decade of purposely isolating human connection, and that was what had in KOTOR II's canon storyline, the Light heal wherever she traveled, and as she grew Losing the power of interconnection one that not even Kreia could escape. She may have but her own path had destroyed her in its own way; and isolation. No matter how one approached the way of the Dark Side was a dead road, and power, not immortality, not even independence. the Dark Side, there was only one that was We hope you've enjoyed this analysis of the Sith do you think? Has this changed your perspective on something? Feel free to post your thoughts guys, thank you so much for watching,