Eurrhhh! Ahhhhh! Hello there. Brightstar, where is he? TELL ME! AAAAARRGGHHH!!! Don't just observe the fish, feel I know father. I had it! I'm sure you did. Go get your arrow. [Music] Father? When is it all right to kill? For sustenance, it's all right to hunt animals. ...but what about bad people? You must always try to avoid conflict. ...but if you're faced with aggression you must do what you can to protect yourself, ...in that order. Do you understand? I do, Papa. Clean them. But you said you were going to Tomorrow, I promise but tonight I have to...(coughs) But you said...? ...to clean those fish! But mama? Vaylie don't argue with me. And while you're at it, show your Come on ,Wally. It's not Wally, it's Walden! And you? To bed you got a fever. Yes, he's been coughing all day. Traitor. I forgot, big bad knights don't I do not have a fever. We could fry those fish off your forehead...and stop arguing with me you're setting a bad example for that monster out there. I'm just acclimating to the weather. We've been acclimating to this constant wet for six months, so no shame in getting sick now and again. Are you starting to miss the dry society life Mrs Brightstar? The only thing I'm starting to miss... is a vigorous husband. Are you now? (coughs) That's it...bed. (coughs) Right, he doesn't have a fever. Mama, when can we go back to Not just yet sweetie. Are the bad men still chasing us? I hope not but...maybe. Why can't we ask Papa's old friends for help? Well because, your father broke some rules for us and now we must fend for ourselves. But don't you worry... ...your father will always protect us. Father...? ...there's something in the mist. It's too late to get away. I'll buy you some time. Vaylie...Follow! Jonn Brightstar... ...is that you? Vaylie! Has your eyesight diminished that much Valek? It has been a long time...Battle of Venmar was it? Congratulations, I thought so too but Lord Asher decided otherwise. How is your master? Like always...angry. What about? That you stole his property. How could something I've built be Lord Asher's property? If Lord Asher desires something That's what I've always loved about your cult, the ease which you fit reality into your delusions. ...and what I hate about your order is its constant stubbornness in front of unsurmountable odds. Forgive me...former order. Well I'm happy for the visit but I'm afraid you've treked into the woods for nothing. I've sold what you're looking for, in Calinda, for safe passage here. Calinda, yes, we visited your But it seemed you had already gone. Yes, a foul stench suddenly befell the Brightstar... ...why lie? Has the time in the Speaking of which, you look positively Little bit of both I'm afraid. Well that's disappointing because I've But it seems I took too long to find Kill him. Kill whoever's Oh Valek... ...you've never learned Look at it boys, the purest weapon in Take your last look and forget you ever saw it as you run back to your Sith Lord children, this is your final... (coughs) Hahahaha! You heard him, run to the shuttle. A moon castle to whoever brings me his head. I see it still has its unique ability. What a beautiful weapon. MAMA! The way it was always destined to be. If you say so. Last chance. Give up and disappear into the far reaches of the Galaxy. Why would I do that? When I'm about to be victorious. How's your Sith logic figure that? Because I cheat. Marvelous. My lady, may I? Please. NO! The reason for the exile, I presume? You should have run. I'm here to protect the helpless. That's not the lesson. Don't cry little bird. Your father may be gone soon but...we'll take care of you. Hahahaha! I'm not crying... ...I'm concentrating. On what? Protecting my family! Father? What you did was just... ...but don't let it touch your heart. I won't father. How can I help you?! You all gave my life meaning... I'd do it again... What is it darling? With Father gone, what will we do when they come back? We'll go far...but if they do come, we'll be safe. Because we have you. What do you mean? Because Vaylie... ...like your father before you... ...you are now a Jedi.