For the greatest Premier League, again, we're talking about he would still be in that XI, and I think he'd get above Lampard and he'd get above Paul Scholes. He would. He's the best all-rounder. Lampard and Scholes could in the team that he played for. I promise you he couldn't. He couldn't. I think Gerrard is probably we've ever had in my opinion. Tell me who's better. This is The E11even, and I'm joined by Liverpool fan Doyle How we doing, chaps? You all good? Good, thank you. Good, up for a battle. Ready? He's in the zone. I like it. We were talking loads before this, but now look how silent we are. We're in the game. what we're gonna be doing and all-time 11 Chelsea In the Premier League era. So we're gonna do the So we got right wing and left wing. Who are you gonna be putting forward, Zac? So my left wing, he's managed to win the only something Liverpool have done once. Wow, shots fired within about 30 seconds. He was nice before this as well. And, to be fair, I'm sure he's but these two guys were always, always But my left wing is gonna be Eden Hazard. Okay. a few years back, I would've loved to see them play together, Joe Cole. Okay. Two great players there. Yeah. Not at all. No. I've got Mo Salah on the right wing, mate. How can I be scared Can't, can you? So, for me, I agree with When you're talking about the two players, they're always compared to one another. I still think Mo Salah, and the numbers that he's deserves to be the better player. And if we're talking about an Salah gets ahead of Eden Hazard. But we're talking about a joint team here, right? And I do think the best Mo Salah and Eden Hazard on the left. That would make the best team. I do wanna rewind there, that Mo Salah is better than Eden Hazard. Do you agree with that, Zac? Hazard left the league a few years ago, and since then, Salah has absolutely crazy things. We've also seen him lift the which is no mean feat, especially up against Manchester City. I think it depends on you as a person enjoy. Exactly. If you like a goalscorer who is just always in the league alone every season, the records show it, that is Salah. But I think if you enjoy a and let's remember, his He is a freestyler. I am. Fun fact for you there. Eden Hazard ticks that Like, it's not to say and, like, he's one of the best dribblers in the league. He is. Like, he's now started being But Eden Hazard had the and he had the ability to create and make you just sit there and think, &quot;Oh my God, this is the I personally think Messi Agreed. People say, like, there was touching upon those In terms of his, like, ability on the ball and his ability to do crazy things with the ball. Let's not go that far. Yeah, yeah. That would be my argument. Oh yeah. Yeah, that would be my and I think it just comes It's subjectional. It is. Like, I'm a freestyle footballer. That's what I do, right? So I love style. Who doesn't like the eye My favourite player in the because every time I watch him, he excites me. He's brilliant. But I'm talking about consistency, right? It's not how good you do it, it's how long you do it good for. Mo Salah is the definition of that. I just said it before, if there was an XI for the greatest Premier League team, it would be Mo Salah on that right wing along with Thierry Henry and all them, and John Terry. Like, Them type of players. He He is an icon, not just in the game and the way he plays football, what he's done for his country, what he's done for his It's unbelievable what he's done. So I don't think you could ever- Is he the greatest ever Liverpool player? I grew up with Gerrard, lad, right? So Gerrard will always because I'm a Scouser, if you didn't know. The accent was really throwing me off. I know, yeah. He will always my heart, right? Because of the stuff he that should never have won just epitomises the Scouse spirit for me. So he'll always be number one. But if I'm objectively thinking about it, Mo Salah probably is the best player, other than Kenny Dalglish. Can't speak on him, 'cause But in my generation, this I've seen play for Liverpool. He's incredible. Really. [Maz] Alright. I get it with Hazard. I do. So you've come to an agreement, you're gonna have Hazard and Salah. Yeah. Yeah, 1-1. 1-1. 1-1. Right, here you go then, lads. Well, here's one for you. Thank you, mate. And here is one for you. [Maz] Look at that. Right, next one. This is a good one. This is the good one. Striker. So I've got a few names Liverpool have always been famous for having a number nine, So we look at Michael Owen, 'cause he played for Man United. But he was brilliant Fernando Torres, Luis Suarez, right? You gotta look at them three players and think how can they fit in a team that's gonna compete against That's the stick out one for me, to be quite honest with you. Yeah, Diego Costa gets the other mention. I will say- He had a few good seasons. Yeah. Brilliant, brilliant. I will say, though, Suarez's- Felt very dismissive there. 'Cause he's not as good as these. Brilliant, brilliant, but he's not Drogba. He's not Drogba. Suarez, I've never seen, have a better individual season in the Premier League ever. And what I would say, when and the way you look Suarez passed that. He could score every single type of goal that you wanted. Not a great person, but We know this, lads. I Did bite one of the right-backs. [Maz] Yeah, yeah. He bloody did, yeah. And So it was a toss-up between And I do think Drogba, I think Suarez was better but Drogba was better overall I think in terms, especially, you're right, Suarez was great. He had that incredible season It was nearly breaking the record. But Drogba... We've got to remember when no one knew who he was. And to go on and do what he did, multiple, multiple Premier League titles, was feared by every defence Okay, he never had the season like Suarez. Individually, he's not as good as Suarez. But- was bigger than what is was for Liverpool. And if you look at the he could score goals, man. He was a big game player, wasn't he? Always, always. He's the biggest big game player. 10 goals and 10 finals, Wembley was essentially with Drogba there. It was Drogba's second home. Like, against Manchester United, Arsenal- Did you feel confident going into a Chelsea Were you like, &quot;In a final, he's gonna do it for us.&quot; 100%. 100%. Just we wouldn't have been the club we were without Didier Drogba. And that was a, you know, that no one had expectations [Doyle] Yeah. And his first season wasn't that great, like, wasn't amazing, but he went on to go and score incredible goals. And just for me, he's a cult figure. That Premier League era, He's one of the faces. he's one of the faces. I think I do lean towards Didier Drogba. I feel like you've admitted Yeah, yeah. If we're talking outside Luis Suarez is there, lad. We're talking about the Drogba's there now. Yeah, I would say Drogba. Right, on that note then, Zac, you've won that one. There you go. That is your blue counter. [Zac] Thank you very [Maz] No worries. [Maz] Look at this. It's [Doyle] Yeah, I'll let him have that one. Do you know what I mean? Right, next up, we have We're gonna get you to for each spot. So two in particular, I really won't budge on. And I know who it's gonna be. Frank Lampard. And it's either gonna N'Golo Kante. N'Golo Kante. Doyle, this is not part of the show. I wish we could have... I'm just going to put Gerrard Because I think maybe for Liverpool, like, Xabi Alonso has a very good shout for when he was there. He wasn't there that long in the end. It's one of them type of things. It's like Desailly for you, right? Yeah. He had about one or good but actually, he kicked on And the same for Desailly, right? These players, great, but when you're talking Claude Makelele. I thought But then watching Kante I don't think I've ever People die in that position, right? Fabinho got off from Liverpool 'cause Jurgen Klopp murdered him, yeah? 'Cause he just made him run like mad, and he was like, &quot;I'm shattered, lad. I'm going to get a big paycheque.&quot; And Kante- He's done that now. But even so, lad, he came to the Euros and he was playing for France. Yeah. like he was 19 again, lad. He's an incredible footballer, an incredible human being, and absolutely I think that for the Premier League and One of the biggest compliments I think you can give to Kante is managers who've managed would say it's like Like, it'd be 12 vs 11 with N'Golo Kante on there. And when he joined, he was at Leicester, people thought of him as wins the ball back. That's it. No, he can dribble. Then, comes to Chelsea, and he works under a and they always found a way for him. He started playing rather And he'd give the ball, he'd run it forward, continue attacks. He'd managed to become that I don't really think people give him a lot of credit for. [Doyle] I agree the Champions League with Chelsea. He won the Premier League with Chelsea. He won so much with us, and I think he is, you're right, like, in terms of not just I think if we did a Premier I love him. I love the guy, lad. That's nailed down. You can put a blue one there if you want. Yeah? Do you want to take that? Alright, that's cool then. Now, there you go, Zac. [Zac] Thank you very much. [Zac] N'Golo. N'Golo. A lot of blue. A lot of blue. I will say, I will add to this, right? It's very difficult when we're talking about Liverpool's best team, right? Because our best team is, some of the players are Whereas your best team It was 2004-2005 type of team. And, you know, they've So we can't really compare that we're gonna talk about But these midfielders, are absolutely some of that England have ever So why would you not put them in the team? There is no one above them. I love Macca [Steve McManaman], I love Thiago Alcantara Jordan? Jordan Henderson, wonderful captain. The reason why he played for Liverpool is because he demanded He was vocal. He was a But with some footballers, right? Mm. [Zac] Yeah. that you want from a And I feel like Lampard, similar. Maybe Gerrard was a better all-rounder, but Lampard's goalscoring On Gerrard, do you feel by one, that slip, and a Premier League title? No. Why would I feel like it's tarnished? I just put him in. I don't think it's- For the greatest Premier League, again, we're talking about he would still be in that XI, and I think he'd get above Lampard and he'd get above Paul Scholes. He would. He's the best all-rounder. Lampard and Scholes could not do what Gerrard did in the I promise you he couldn't. He couldn't. It's so tough to say. Like, this is the Lampard and eventually saw the talent And there was a period where, he did go from being around and being more of a distributor and stuff. I think we saw Gerrard do that. It's easy to say Gerrard, 'cause he played for a longer time. I think Gerrard is probably we've ever had in my opinion. You heard me. Well, I think that might be Yeah, might be a Might be another I said it. I said it, lad. Go on, quickly elaborate. Wayne Rooney. Tell me who's better. Why? Better in all sense of the way. He's not. He was. He was a fantastic- He's also a Scouser as well, by the way. Fantastic striker, ended playing central midfield He could score every goal you wanted. It's subjective. I guess I'm Because it's Steven Gerrard. But also, I do think if you they'd put him up there. Mate, Rooney at 16 was Incredible. Yeah, definitely, incredible. He scored that goal against Arsenal. It was insane. It hit the Gerrard's still better, though. I don't think so. Yeah, he's better. Right, different argument, Different video. Right. Look, we've decided There's your red counter. [Doyle] Thank you, boss. [Doyle] This is crap, this. I'm losing. [Zac] We'll put Lampard in there. [Maz] You wanna him put a [Doyle] Yeah, that's fair. Right, next up, we've got centre-halves. Now, I feel like this could be your time. Let's put your two forward first. Virgil van Dijk, lad. I know for a fact that you I know Carvalho was brilliant, and as a partnership with But if you take Carvalho out that team, he's still not as good as Virgil van Dijk. And if you put him next to Terry, oof, he could do just the same things as Carvalho could and more. He's genuinely the yardstick Right, if you look at Willie Very good. Stole his whole flow from Virgil van Dijk. That's where he got it from, lad. That's where he got his flow. And I'm telling you now, John Terry was that It was Rio and Terry who were and he's took that on and created That's why I'm saying he's the yardstick. I don't think you could ever leave him out of a or again, I'm gonna say it, He's better than Vidic, Man United fans. I But because he hasn't got But his football ability 'Cause he's phenomenal. You ask anybody, any defenders. Ask John Terry, ask Rio Ferdinand, lad, &quot;How good's Virgil van Dijk?&quot; They'll say, &quot;He's better than me.&quot; Yeah. Yes, he's better. Of course he is. He's a Modern footballers are better than the- But what attributes are His ball-carrying Ball-carrying, I'll give you. But I think passing, JT beats him. Definitely doesn't. It does not, lad. One of Virgil's biggest He used to take free-kicks for Celtic. JT does it with his left foot. So does Virgil, lad. Virgil's got a cultured Virgil van Dijk has a There's nothing, nothing that Terry can do that Virgil can't, and I guarantee that, lad. Alright. And he's better looking. and he smells better, lad. If it's based on looks, Let's talk about the footballing. So from Chelsea a perspective, John Terry. Yeah, and let's remember the context of what Like, defenders didn't pass the ball. Defenders get the ball and they go long. And then JT came about and he went, &quot;Okay, so I'm gonna take of throwing every bit of me on the line.&quot; Well, it's that famous picture. Exactly. That's good. I haven't seen Virgil do that. Doesn't need to. Yeah, because he'll mess the hair up. The hair will come out of the bun. He gets dribbled past about Hey, what's that ridiculous stat? Did happen in the Champion League final against Real Madrid, though, didn't it? And the ball that came across. I mean, this is the thing. Like, JT was someone which, like, people love to sit here and talk about all these defenders. You mentioned him, Vidic, and these guys who are, and JT had that. Had every bit of that. He then also had the new style, and it was about being cultured. It was about being happy to and that did come through time as well. But I don't think people realise how good John Terry Like, everybody you speak to how much easier he made the game. 'Cause it wasn't like we had a left-footed centre-back at that time. You said Carvalho, there was Gary Cahill at moments with him as well. JT made it so much easier He went from a team that was to a team that was winning Like, that is some longevity, man, from a young kid to then and do so much. And he's the highest-scoring in the Premier League. Like, that's ridiculous And as a partnership, if it's Van Dijk and John Terry, like, I- That's insane. Incredible. On that note, there you go. [Doyle] Thank you very much, buddy. [Maz] No worries. Next up, we have left-back. Yeah. this one, right? Because I don't feel like, again, I don't think it's fair. Like, I was comparing Virgil hasn't finished his career yet, and he's the type of that'll go on to 38, 37, 36 and still be fantastic footballer. And I'm gonna put, you know who I'm gonna Andy Robertson, yeah? Andy Robbo has been just as Mo Salah, Trent, He has been a bedrock and without him we wouldn't be anywhere. And he cost us PS3 million The value for money that is unbelievable. and then Robertson. Yeah. Two very different paths. And even think of the morale he brings to the dressing room. He gets along with everybody. Like, he is a top professional, and a fantastic footballer. He's only second to Trent in assists. That says something, lad. That says something about And it gets overlooked because But he has the second-most assists as a full-back in the Premier League, lad. If it wasn't for one man, I'd probably end up agreeing with you. I know who it's gonna be. But when you're up against Ashley Cole- I know. You got it tough, I'm not gonna lie. It was incredible during- And finished his career now as well. He has. He has. But it was incredible when he was at, you know, an Arsenal at a went on to, yeah, win... we've spoken about the the Champions League, Like, he's one of the most He was someone who was so... the way that we had our defensive line and his connection with John Terry and the way that they he was just incredible. I mean, he could defend... One of the best players and in the world, Cristiano Ronaldo. Yeah. Who's he say was the toughest person he ever come up against? Ashley Cole. I agree with that. He was literally the yardstick. Again, I keep saying it, at left-back in the world at one point. But I still, I'm not gonna Because I can't do it to Robbo 'cause I absolutely adore him. So I'm gonna make you decide, because I honestly, I can't Because he gets overlooked And I just think he's such You do it, lad. I like it. The tension's building. I can't take Robbo out, lad. I can't. You can't? Well, I can. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, it has to be Ashley Cole, arguably one of the best left-backs ever. Let's move on then. [Doyle] Do we need to? This is Trent. There's nobody else, is there, lad? Oh wow. He's done that. Don't you dare, lad, put Ivanovic there. No, no, no, no. Azpilicueta. Azpilicueta is not appreciated enough at all in the world of football. Fair play. That's a good shout. I like that. This is someone who came in, I think, for about PS12 million. Chelsea had just won the Premier League. Sorry, had just won the He came in and was considered we've just got from Spain. Not too sure what to make of him. He can kind of play a little bit, right? But he can play right-back. He kind of can play a And he went on to not only win the Premier League several times, he also went on to win He went on to become captain of Chelsea. He went on to be amazing under Antonio Conte. Also did There was a season where Ashley He went and played left-back. Not many defenders can come Like, I think there's an argument, and look, right now, it's tough because Trent, he's won it all, but Azpi has as well. It's tough. Trent has as well. That's lovely. That's really lovely. But it's still Trent and you know it is. Yeah, I mean, it is. I'll argue as well that Azpi, lad, rather than a right-back. And if you're talking about Trent is a generational talent, brother. There is nobody than Kevin De Bruyne with his passing variety in this league. He's exceptional. Are you happy to concede on that one? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You can take Trent. Yeah, it's fine. Looks like I just like the ride side. There you go. Right, final position. Yeah. Now, there should be some good names here. I mean, Chelsea's probably two that I'll bring to the table who's obviously gone on We mentioned it about Luis Suarez, what he's gone on to do Real Madrid. But the one is Petr Cech. Petr Cech came in and was And we mentioned this core, This guy here, he came He then had a nasty injury, awful injury, was told that if he was ever to be a bad collision again, like, it might be over. It's not necessarily the safest of things to be doing right now, and having the ball while men are rushing at you as well. And he was, during that era, I think people would from '04, really, to 2012, the best keeper in the Premier League. That's a long time. That's really, really impressive. I think from a shot-stopping ability, he was just outrageous. Yeah, I think Petr Cech, again. was that player who was the blueprint 15, 20 years ago, whatever. And I think a lot of this team has been based off, like, a Because that team that conceded 15 goals is put right up there, 'cause it's never been But he wasn't doing it on his own, was he? He had John Terry and And he had Ashley Cole and They're top defenders. He's So the only player I who's at the same calibre, Alisson is right now the So I can't really put Petr Cech above him because one, he hasn't He's still got plenty And two, like, I'm not gonna where 'cause he's conceded 15 goals, it means he's the best It's not the truth. Are you saying that he Edwin van der Sar during that time was also phenomenal for Man United, lad. So I can't really say. Not for as long, though. No, I agree. Not as long, right? So, but still, ability-wise, pretty similar in my opinion, lad. But then Edwin van der Sar was brilliant. So I'm gonna put Alisson there for being a bedrock of his ability to distribute the ball. You've seen so many goals where and he's ran through against United. He even scored a goal as well. Yeah, so he's even the score goal for us. I just can't put Cech in front of Alisson just simply because he And I think after people will look at Alisson and think, &quot;Is he up there with with Cech and that?&quot; I think the issue, though, is that's where it comes down to honours. And it's not fair. It's not fair on Liverpool, right? I hate this, right? City have basically taken And without that, there'll because they'd have accumulated I think when it comes down to it, at the end of your career, which goalkeeper here is gonna It's gonna be Cech, isn't it? And just, like, that 15 goals There's 38 games, 38. It's mental. I don't think it'll ever be done, will it? Liverpool only lost one The only, like, you know, the has not being as defensively stable as that Chelsea team, without a doubt. But his footballing ability is still better than Petr Cech's. It is. Right, so it's down to me again. And you're? Don't do this to me, lad. No pity points, no pity points. Genuinely what you believe here. Okay. What you believe. Everyone's sucking up to me. It's great. Can I flip the table if Pay me some compliments, go on. That's a sick haircut, that, lad. I wish I had a beard like that, lad. Oh, thanks. Right, sadly, still doesn't It's tough. These were the All joking aside, this is a tough one. However, I am sadly gonna have as much as it pains me. The reasons why, I think I think honours is a part As well as for me as well, because he has finished his career, everything's on the table. I think Alisson's still playing. It's unfair on Alisson, I think he's had a really because he could easily be in this team. We could put Alisson on Yeah. Yeah, no. How dare you? How dare you? You don't want that? Yeah, no. I can make it happen. I've We'll put your subs here, mate. There you go, that is your all-time Premier League 11. Are you happy, Zac? I'm very happy. Very, very happy. Tell you what I'm happy about. This is all a thing of the past. This is all the present. If we did a combined 11 there'd be one player from and that's it. That's not what the video was. You remember it fondly. I'll enjoy my team this I reckon all three of them Well, they are today. Yeah, so that's all that matters. Put it there.