I'm not a scientist Please take everything. Imagine I am an idiot Now you can listen to me. This is what now with Trevor Noah. Christiana. Nice to see you in person. This is so much fun, a friend. Haven't seen you in so, like. I know in the flesh. Yeah. Remember? Yeah. Every single day of our lives. Yeah, I was like, I loved it. He liked it so much. You quit? Yeah, I. man. I'm excited because, I mean, I'm excited this conversation is is one we'll be able to complete today, are, strangely enough, and this one everybody's talking about Ozempic. Right? And we're not talking about ozempic I think that's that's going to be We're just going to use that loss drugs because Ozempic Munjal, You know, the point is we're talking lose weight, apparently feel great. This is the If they want to buy it for me. I'm. I'm available. Eli Lilly I never know how to say their name. Yeah, I can't, but, Yeah, it's. I feel like we're at an interesting there was a point when this would have just been You know, I mean, You're cheating. Yeah. And then now it's slowly. We're like, you know. Yeah, it's like Republican, Democrat. It's like 5050 now. It's basically like. Yeah. What do you Oh my God Trevor you can't ask me That's exactly that's exactly I am pro-choice Oh I like this I hate choice. I'm pro-choice. So you have no moral judgment No, I have I've seen friends on the drug and see how it's seen Okay. Change their lives. In what way? Beyond the weight, they Some of them had, like, back and me It was just like, yeah, Some people were like, they kind of They're drinking less. So when you see it from that So I'm pro the choice. But I'm not pro. The societal pressure that I think Okay okay okay. Well let's let's I wanted to bring in, a writer, think has some of the most informed on this topic You know, her work If you read, if you don't read, And this will be your introduction Gia Tolentino, welcome, Thank you for having me. Thank you for joining us. I'm going to apologize in advance for all the ignorance I'm but I feel like it's my purpose. As my mother used to say be of service. So if I'm surrounded I have to now balance the I think you heard the question So let's let's start from your no scientific, Where where do you stand when I think I think about ozempic cultural phenomena, which is I have a lot of thoughts And then in terms of anyone's other than I have a group chat sometimes and like to make fun of the fact because everyone looks so different. But yeah, I mean, I'm, I'm I'm Yeah, it's none of my damn business what anyone's doing with their own You know, it's interesting you bring up like I've noticed now, there's a you know, we talk about There's like, there's this game now where people see someone Oh, that's what I've noticed with me. Depending on like how someone takes a picture of me them and like, But then sometimes I go like, in a way, it's almost become a bit of It's like, oh, I see you run ozempic. Are you one of them? Yeah. Trump Because the Republican Party, and everyone calling him like They're calling him as them Donald Trump allegedly Allegedly. Wow. He looks different. I believe that, yeah. I can see him now. Ozempic. well, I hope you know this. I do have thoughts on. You know, that our whole fascination And it's interesting, I wonder if you have thoughts Part of beauty is thinness, from a really early age, all of these things are like coded I like you, in Disney movies, in anything like And there's a Protestant work It's something that you should achieve through hard Right? Yeah. And when people use those, cheated, you skipped the hard work, And so you got the thing But now we find this Like you worked Okay, I hear what I hear. Just. Yeah, it's funny, it was for you growing up, but so I have I've had an interesting and how I perceive it because I grew up in South Africa This is such a weird thing to try and You did not get made as much fun of Like so like a fat person, I mean, I don't even remember but I remember all the ones Sansa. It was. That was my favorite was that sticks. My Sansa skinny manly. It was like where it was just like you. You're a twig, you're feeding you. And it was a sign there of of, Yeah. If you got married weight, people would say Literally. They'd be like, I mean, I know, I mean, look at you. If I would come home from the States I would, I'd come back from America And so whenever I go home, people You're looking good, America. Treating you well. We are looking for Norm Look at your cheeks. And then and and so where I grew up, fatness was considered and then being skinny was like, look, and you're not making So it's interesting how it flips, you know, But in both cases I mean oh yeah. Like the thing that is valued is always the thing And it's You look through art history, right? The, the fuller figures are valued Yeah. Wealthy signifying plenty. And now it's signifying, you know, I got a, you know, I mean, it's funny that you mention because recently Oh. It was. Yeah. right. And there are parents I don't know about that. I mean, trepidation is very visceral. You're like, giving it to kids, I'll tell you why. I do not think that these types of drugs I personally believe a whole host of things like if you're giving them because they wait is Otherwise it's it's weird, like you I mean, it's weird. It's so crazy. But, I mean, mothers, pre-teens and teenagers, of their daughter and be like, oh, You know, like mothers. It it's so encoded in our culture and fathers out there, just like I mean, most people's relationship They often come from their parents It's so interesting creates health for kids always comes And it's like there's It's like it's housing policy. It's like it's food stamp It's all of these things and, you know, and for and for all these things there are levers certainly during childhood not to say that lifestyle But you know, there you know, they're the patients and they have nobody And they it's not safe to be outside where there they are you know, all day because of, you know, And so the only lever to pull, for these complicating conditions And this is everywhere in the world, very good at treating the symptoms Yeah. Like very, very, very, You know what I mean. Like like America Yeah. America will find a lot of money but then won't find ways to stop Yeah, you know what I mean. America will find you. Enrich Exactly, exactly. So, so so this feels like where it's like we are going to now but not ask ourselves why these children would need Because I don't know, was Nigeria What was weight like in Nigeria There is this cultural. The body So it's like yes, big hips, tiny which is pretty impossible Most people don't have it naturally, and you're not probably going to have I was always considered a bit too I remember and my mom was like, She was just like, Am I should be just like, who's That's, you know, you know, in particular, Yeah. So you see, like, really And like, in Nigeria, I think the most about how bodies naturally are is have a fattening room, which is like she has to go to a room They call a fattening room because the cows are just naturally like in the southeast, quite muscular So you know what that means. Fatness is supposed to be good, But then again, how long do you stay I love this, yeah. Oh, I don't know. Oh, okay. Is it like they just eat like, giving Carbohydrates, basically. They're not like force feeding you. I mean, the girls didn't want to get fat or get married, All right, like, once again, a fun Sorry, guys. Ends with oppression. Oh, well, I want to know, When and why Because you were one of you know, before it became the way, I remember there was a moment And then there were whispers. Yeah. And then all of a sudden Musk was on it and you're like, Well I think cause I kind of think the sort of weather vane for what Hilarious. And, you know, like deeply punitive, standards, you know, like, written upon their bodies what women all across do you know, and this really kind of And so, you know, I, I think I it was, it was like that And then, you know, there was this shot the chronic conditions that women and like, you know, some women in Hollywood were taking and their bodies And it was interesting to me to begin you know, like, I, I grew up in, you know, the 90s, the early 2000s and in sort of very conservative within this hegemonic, like white dominated the age of sort beautiful are like Paris Hilton, And that was the body prescribed. And then we had this sort of Obama democratization of culture, you know, about how you could be healthy Right. And that all sorts of bodies And I always felt a little skeptical ad body positivity thing, for reasons But I thought, okay, finally, maybe will unlock the sort of hold culture is out on America And then this happened and it was I mean, that was my initial interest. I was like, I thought we had already changed, train of, of, And, and, and the sharp swing back, for the way people talked and thought about beauty, And then so I just started I wonder, though, do you do And, you know, because I mean, like, I'm a little simple in this thinking and animals also judge each other and we're no different. I just think what happens to us there are tastemakers who sort of like pull the levers where the, you know, the Overton Yeah. And whether one of health is, do you think that our conversations lie in beauty, or is it people using health on what they think beautiful is? Yeah, And I think where we accepted everyone's I think The Economist did a piece that, like, women's salaries And I feel like if you lose your salary goes up. Yeah. So it's just like the market forces, reason, we know And by the way, did you see Interesting. The more a woman gains in weight, And with men, the bigger they get. Like the rounder, I guess it's like because you look He's just like Henry. Yeah, yeah, it's like those vibes, The more like bulbous you become. The your money actually, like, They're just like, yeah, this dude He ate a pig Yeah. And I think for women, it's That connection between morality. Yes, and beauty and health. I think people just They don't see them Even if they use a language like, You know, when but they're saying to someone, don't And I think it's going to be harder Unfortunately. So okay, is there a moral way for people about weight, weight loss, health and You know, you've done a lot of research I know you've talked about this for for years, but like, where I think it exists, that are the best at it You know, I think that there are that have spent, cultural, discursive work in the last a whole vocabulary for how we could Right. And it's incredibly difficult in reporting this piece, even in I think that the fear of fat and the bias against it is I'm sure it's built into me you know, But I think that there is a way right, that BMI is based on, you kind of eugenicist and there can be serious conditions But that doesn't mean that, excess weight is in itself You know, and so much of this is really arguably down Right? Like there there are OB gyns that There's so many, so many like you know, beliefs about patients overweight or obese. And, you know, they they underdiagnosed, all health problems to, yeah, that are never sort of suspected And, you know, there's like, yeah, I think there was a It might have been actually, where there was a woman Yeah. And yeah, it was blood. Yes. That was like, oh you're like Yeah, yeah. Diet. You know like. Yeah. And she actually had she have lung Yeah. Yeah. But I think you know your you mostly find the healthy way And people who have had to like advocate against all of these things I also think fundamentally, probably health is to kind of set weight aside and talk about other metrics Yeah, I don't know what that means. No, no, no, really, I know I hear VO2 That's actually they say VO2 max. So VO2 max is your body's ability to withdraw or to extract oxygen There you go There are so many other metrics that have nothing to do with weight, that would be the healthiest way be just sort of an incidental byproduct We're right after this short break. And let's let's talk a little bit Like the actual way I had a conversation with the and some of the scientists because I wanted to understand. Yeah, what is this thing? So I'll, I'll break it down. And I know you're the expert, A few decades ago, who discovered that there was that was released into your body, that told your body And they wanted to study GLP one, they called it. Could they never call it easy which they should, because then it would help us we're going to call this Patrick, But anyway, scientists found GLP one. This is something that makes full, makes you feel satisfied. I think is a And they wanted to study it All right. How do we figure it out? They always find a lizard. And they're like, You fast forward, they realize that this drug can help Then they're like, okay, this is for But then someone goes, wait a minute, it's not just diabetes. People are losing weight. Yeah. And then like, the same way they did with Viagra, we're trying to help people with Have you noticed that are getting erections We don't give a shit about blood We've just struck gold. But what I found is to what you said, Christiana, if we have the conversation we're missing something bigger And these drugs are helping something about self-control Because people take pills The first thing they do We knew that would happen. But then people go, oh, I don't drink I don't watch as much TV. I don't use social media. I'm not even on my phone as much. I don't gamble as much. And you just like we were worried. What? Impulsive shopping. Someone stopped. And so, you know, discovering this solution, exposed all of the poisonous has unleashed upon itself? Does this make sense? Yeah. We don't judge gambling or drinking or online Wait, so that was I got on Ozempic to lose weight, but they discovered that they were waking to, like, Like a woman and she wasn't putting things in her This is what, the same way. We don't see like excessive shopping the same way we see excessive eating. and I think that's the most Well, this is this is taking it But what what makes me think of and what I think this thing when I was writing like, one of the reasons that I, I, you know, on a macro level, who are extremely thin take it Right? Is that like what it is to be human right? Like that. I like the things of what we seek hunger for. And, you know, like our our desire for pleasure Right? These things are important. And they they make us human. And back to the conversation It's like so much of the rise of obesity in children that people are so afraid of fat Like that children are taught to fear jar, like the idea of just kind of seems to be the thing lead to the healthiest relationship To not need to to like, indulge and sort of secret That that, that if these appetites treat them normally in all respects consumer culture just blows sky high because of this fear I think my slight pushback to is that, to have a regulated relationship Yes, when there are very few So food is like a very interesting I think that's okay. If you're like in a country there's a park down the road, Like it's just like you get pleasure One of the dopamine in this country, and alcohol are the only cheap, Yeah. Like if I guess, culture, then I'd be like, Because then you can regulate because you're getting pleasure but people don't get to it's They don't have any other pleasures. If we could, if we could like, honor we were saying outside time and safe. Yeah, yeah. And like the labor market being organized differently you have to squeeze two minute micro installments, like, Like, I think we would have to compulsion and appetite you know, if American society that would, like, honor people So this isn't unique to America. I don't want it of course, is pretty tough right It's like, yeah, well, I have seen we also have to consider is this one corporations have found ways to create messaging into making the corporations problem Yeah. In the same way, into thinking Right? And they make it about individuals. Yeah. You need to recycle. Yeah. No no no no. Let me tell you something. Recycling is not our job. The job is to not make the thing We take for granted how many times when we ignore, into believing that it's us? And I think the same thing in America Is where, you know, to your point, people have been made to feel guilty and about their indulgence And then we create this world Why are you letting your kid eat Well, I cottonwoods, I don't want to stop. And no one seems to be. Not no one. But like I think sometimes Like, wait, why is it impossible to stop eating those chips? If we live in a society for the addiction catching them, who's imposing the addiction then I feel like we're playing telling everybody in society when in fact we were ignoring for sure. These ozempic type drugs, as much as we're focusing on them they've exposed this underbelly Yeah, I think Trevor, you is that we've always thought all of these things Yes. And and the response I think It's not about, Like the system is basically working And some of us are able to resist and resist some of it by some of it. But I think it's it's Yeah. I feel like that's the whole story of of the entire conversation Like it's and who's So it's like they always Yeah, yeah, yeah. So let's so let's talk a little bit about, appetites per se and we come back what they're doing have we now entered a new world? You know what you're saying, where of the haves being able to escape There's a it's almost like on people being able to evade this thing, this net of addiction So I think just to help in it, like we're talking about ozempic and we think losing weight And now it means that there will be and not have to go through and it's going to be the people with money that can And then the people Well, yeah, I think one of the things meaningfully new about this standards of the last decade kind of insidious arms race And then technological alteration and then you digitally enhanced more to further sort of shape Like the thing that really scares the idea that an unaltered body and sort of acceptable that like, really like Damn. Yeah. It's almost like, in those, you know, when you watch where, like, people are judged because they don't have cybernetics Yeah. You've just put it now it becomes judgment why aren't you making yourself And I think plenty of people happy in their lives are now hit wave of like, well, why don't you know, because now it seems like you're actively Or why wouldn't you? And why wouldn't So here's a question I do have. I'm going to throw a few things and everybody at trigger warnings. Everybody trigger And feel free to plead the fifth. No one needs to speak, okay? I don't wish to bring anybody down And the pilot will tell you before I take it on this dive. So let's let's let's get with a few of these of these moments, sometimes it feels And because I generally don't think But I do know that there's people perceive as a When a celebrity, let's just deal Celebrities will come out. They go, I love my body, They build fans based on that body Fans are like, We're all with you Like after six months, they've just disappeared and they've got And then they're like, Yeah. And then people are like, yo, what And they're like, no, Because actually I wasn't healthy and I wasn't happy Whatever it might be. And then they get a, from the people that were body positive who are now sort of anti body positive because now Does this make sense everything else in society It's like it's sometimes towards a place where people can be We're working to a place we wish them to be, and then if they You get I'm saying, like, at Adele for losing weight. Yeah, angry at Jennifer Hudson. Angry at her. Do you know what I mean? I, you know, not to speak on behalf but I think there's such that had perhaps Adele's old body There was something very comforting to see a fat woman who's thriving Right. and there's like this disappointment when that celebrity band changes I speculate some of that. Well, I mean, I mentioned earlier, you know, the the beginning positivity movement. It seemed dangerous to me immediately no, like, actually beauty assignation based on people's It's not like a Like it was this whole thing that everyone was beautiful, And it was like, no, no, no, But perhaps Oh, wow. That's fascinating. Yeah. And it seemed to me like perhaps it is just much more important and beauty is not as important Like, it's just this thing to dumb almost like what you're saying Yeah, I like that as a that's I never And just seemed like, that people are going Now we're trying to get to we're Okay. Hold on. There's but the headline is this plus size But then she lost 100 pounds, even though she was But she's also perfect now. You know what it was like. Like it's it's like this this is the sort of circular when it's like everyone's beautiful. But also health is good, but also But also some choices And it's just so so so yeah. Oh I just wanted to throw Tracy in. Oh definitely. McMillan Cottom She talks about structural This is the thing about like how beauty is like even though you can feel beautiful if you are dark skin, fat And I think what exemplar is getting to that structural ugliness of weight That's what a lot of thinkers Like, why have we made being bigger, So, you know, I Okay, first of all, And this is why it's hard to have I believe, because people weaponize Yeah. And use it Let's take it to like athletes. LeBron Or he decided, or rather, LeBron James decided If I want my knees that they're going to take me, it is easier if I carry less weight. It is easier for me to run across I think the thing we shouldn't take I almost wish there was a world good faith conversation land. Yeah, you know where but it cannot be used against Yeah. A doctor can say, hey, and work out as much as possible But then someone's not going to point See, you piece of trash. Yeah, but it is important for people Just like just like resistance training has been shown factors in longevity I'm saying living as a functional person So that's that's like, okay, so I agree with you, you probably understand what I say Sometimes it is so hard to disconnect for the pursuit of a body, especially I'm with you. People won't disapprove. Trust me. And mean it's not exactly the same. Yeah, but we also. And I. I'm not saying it's exactly the same because we don't get judged the same. But I know there's guys there's also You're standing in the gym and you're But also, man, Yeah. I'm so I'm so far off know, I'm so back in America. I think back to the LeBron thing It's like you know he has very specific needs for But that that that many of that But I think it's an interesting thing how does he need to live in and or change his body to do the things Yes, even that as a way even that would be just a really nice like it's like for people to that, it was like, can you do the things in your life you know, do you feel And it's like, you know, that That's amazing. What we Because I feel like that could make It's like, hey, can you do can you lift your overhead Can you lift your child comfortably? Can you move a couch? Can you live your life Yeah. And like, do you feel good? Do you feel good in your body? Right. I think that's what I was thinking appetite and pleasure thing. Right. Like people just feeling good in all. Man, I really love that idea. Like, it seems extremely health We need to get we need to get And this one would be like, That's what it would be. Don't What now? After this? You know what? You know what? I also realize whether we like to admit it or not, right? We hold and cost because it either makes us feel like Whatever it is, there's reasons I think we shouldn't ever take one of the few things that tells them something about you You don't know what it's telling you, but like, think of it this way. If somebody has a has or whichever way you want to put it that you can't tell. If somebody drinks to alcohol or likes you can't tell And I think what's is it is one of the few things can just assume many things about you sort of see it from the outside and not just make judgments Yes, but I think with fat people, We are like and sometimes as well. And we see that body is like this is kind of like, That is a thing Or like, being fat and exercising is people I'm so proud of you. And you're like, I'm You like, why do you feel this need to like, encourage the people trying Like, yeah. So someone that should be pitied in a way and I think We just feel like we can say Yeah, and it's often really cruel. That's actually a really good point. There was a there is a thing. There is, like Harvard and I think I mentioned it I'm going to get the dates sort of from a point in the mid 2000s They analyze about age, about skin color, you know, like these various things, expression of bias era, period, except for bias I believe both implicit and explicit. So everything went down Yeah, Of the ten things tested in this Interesting. Well, that's that's Yeah, yeah. Look, I, I think, I think, you know, of this conversation, this feels like a, an inflection point the conversations we have going are going to continuously evolve, that's been introduced. Yeah. I feel like we're we're at that point is they're that go far beyond the questions living in for a while. And those questions are, Are we trying to promote health or are we trying to promote upon other human beings? Yeah. Are we trying to, you know, run around shaming people Why do we even feel, as you said, to do these things. And then with children, Because again, the big thing I think we don't know what the very long term effects of these drugs are now I mean, for a long period of time, for people for people who don't have diabetes, And I think that's something people always have to be careful of what we do know And so, what now from your perspective, What what do you think What would you hope that maybe we wouldn't What I thought originally the cultural effect of this, you know, the fact is that we could kind of from every part of this conversation possible, right, metabolism and the hormonal preset to be a certain weight, of arbitrary and, and, And like you said, Christiane, I like a, a sign of just environmentally Like, I think that is the best thing that something like Mozambique can do people to the understanding that relationship to fullness then maybe it wasn't should have been judging people, It's not something that a century like a full century of like the entire beauty Of course, it doesn't seem And I think, other than the fact that, you know, in the vast majority of cases, your the, your body reverts So the, the weight loss lasts And, and you gain and you gain Yeah. So this is, this is something we've learned about bodies, from the starvation experiments The only ones we really have, Dieting slows your metabolism. And that's one of the reasons that fatphobia leads to obesity And and so, you know, the way of, of what happens when with the sort of exit plan, or the sort of lifetime for this sort of like beauty Yeah. And I don't know I don't know how people will it still doesn't seem like this that people talk about, frankly, And I don't know, it'll be interesting to see if Yeah, that's, that's that's a really, to look at all for what it could as we move forward, I will throw in Okay. I think I think at some point the American government because these drugs, if they get to like a point extremely effective because right now Yeah. But when they get to the point are just nailing it I think they might get shut Because what is America if people are not addicted People are not addicted to fast food. People are not addicted to junk food. A lot of America has been built addicted, not giving them something, And I wonder if and I know it's but I go like, these corporations and these CEOs are going to phone this one drug thing is shutting down make their money. You need to shut it down. And I don't think that that's I agree with you. I have a working theory. I think that like as there anti wokeness thing happening I think the obsession with thinness And as long as we're kind of populist conservative era, Because I think that when people like use woke as a slur, they'll mention they'll mention body positivity, all of these things that years, were coming into mainstream, They weren't quite acceptance. And I think that this thin, white, blond, ideal Barbie It's no coincidence and we were like, oh, But it's just like all of that being ascendant that you say, rejecting As long as that's the case, Damn. And I think the Kardashians, and even dating white men, And then like until it swings Kobe bodies, we don't mind The politics, the different. I think the thinness Well, as they say that's about to begin, Jia, thank Thank you for joining us Thank you again. Thank you so much. What now with Trevor in partnership with Day The show is executive produced by Trevor Noah, Ben Our senior producer is Jess Hackel. Marina Hankie is our producer, music Thank you so much for listening. Join me next Thursday