Translator: Ellen Maloney Did you know that spicy foods That they wake up your libido and actually cause you And did you know that if you are a man you can actually become infertile? Not only that, but it can cause that not only affects the man And did you know can actually cause you to grow hair (Laughter) Everyone will know what you do (Laughter) OK, everything I just told you was a lie. (Cheering) Thank God! But it was not that long ago And many still do. So today I am talking to you So we can uncover some of today's and unearth some from the past that have actually come to shape For example - unsweetened Kellogg's cornflakes were developed by Dr. John Harvey Kellogg. See, he was an anti-masturbation crusader. He believed, as did that spicy foods led to lust, and masturbation led So, he developed this diet to hopefully decrease (Laughter) It was actually his brother Will and marketed them as a breakfast cereal The Graham Cracker Sylvester Graham was a minister and he developed as part of a bland diet If he only knew what we did with S'mores. (Laughter) Now, it wasn't just these two men campaigning against In fact, most health care professionals believed the same thing. So, now it is easy for us and think how naive and ignorant to believe such silly things. Because of course, out of our grandparents' generation We know our facts. I mean, we are part of movements and improving our sex education and increasing our 'clitoracy' through things like (Laughter) We know our facts. Or do we? There is actually still a lot of falsehood You see, as a sex therapist, I get to meet and talk It is actually quite a unique opportunity because people come to me and they tell me their innermost their desires, their fears, everything. And over time, So, for example: Women will often come to me because Now, being preorgasmic could stem but one trend I often see is that many women still feel around masturbation, Therefore, they're as their only means to orgasm attainment. But they have no roadmap for their body. With men, I often see a different trend. Where maybe - (Laughter) stay with me on this - (Laughter) maybe they have relied on masturbation as their sole means that this has created adverse patterns. Now, regardless if the client looking at the issues and how that ties is extremely important to recognize. So today, I thought we'd address as our mistaken beliefs will have a and contribute to many So, let's do a little fact-or-fiction Fact or fiction? Women who rely on vibrators will not be able to have an orgasm They will become dependent on it. That is fiction, yes. So, some women do like more intense, which a vibrator will provide but that does not cause an inability In fact, research shows that women and learn about their body are more likely to attain than those who do not. Alright, fact or fiction? Those in dating relationships than those who are single. That is a fact. So, those in relationships are more likely than those who are single. Not only that, but homosexual behavior or a higher frequency of masturbation. Men masturbate more than women, older people less than younger people, African-Americans less than other groups, non-religious more so than Christians, and the more educated you are, the more likely it is Fact or fiction? I think she's reading (Laughter) Women - fact. (Laughter) Women generally masturbate by inserting therefore, simulating penetrative sex. That was a quick one. (Laughter) Fiction, yes. Some women do masturbate in this fashion, and that is fine and completely normal. However, it is far more likely by using clitoral stimulation, The clitoris is actually It is not merely a little button you know, we say, (Laughter) It is actually a fairly large and it is the only body part The clitoris is estimated to be and 6 centimeters wide. Fact or fiction? Early childhood masturbation is abnormal and may mean that your child Well done. Fiction. So, children learn very early on when they touch their bodies, So, early childhood masturbation, even into infancy, (Laughter) This man looks very worried. (Laughter) Fact or fiction? Too much masturbation That is fiction. So, the only health risk associated would be allergic reactions infections due to unwashed toys, or just skin irritations in general. Masturbation is actually and masturbation - (Laughter) fact! - (Laughter) masturbation resulting in orgasm actually carries with it It alleviates headaches, and it actually improves And women who masturbate can actually alleviate menstrual cramps. It is estimated that about have masturbated So, masturbating, is normal and healthy. So, the only adverse health risk is if you are masturbating so much that you stop going to work, let's say, (Laughter) or it is impeding your daily functioning then it may be an issue - and you should come and see me. (Laughter) Fact or fiction? Masturbation will not or affect your performance before a big game or workout. That is a fact. So as I already said, masturbation carries with it a plethora so it actually may be beneficial to you Again, the only thing is if you are masturbating (Laughter) But then, that would be true where you are repeatedly using Alright, last one. (Laughter) Now, this is a very common one I get. Fact or fiction? Masturbation causes premature ejaculation You are all quieter on this one, I see. (Laughter) That is fiction. Now, this is a very complicated issue. So, the general act of masturbation however, it may be helpful to think of it So, let's say you are During practice, you are sloughing off, just not being an overall good player. Now, when you get you are not going to play like a pro. Why? Because you practice like you play. So, you have to think Masturbation is the practice; So, for example. Let's say, as a man, you only give yourself a few minutes That may condition you So, when you are with a partner that may create problems for you. Or let's say, you watch let's say foot-fetish And then you are with a partner does not want you anywhere near them. That could create psychological So now, again, I am not saying What I am stressing is the importance as similar as possible, just like anything in life So now, I can stand up here and do the fact but perhaps the catalyst for change but on a shift in perspective. Now, there is few people campaigning against like Kellogg and Sylvester however, there is still or this one behavior So, if we think of all this negativity how do we break free of this We just keep creating more. I mean, the Roman Catholic Church so many Catholics may not masturbate or feel guilty about masturbating And many children inherit from their parents. Now, speaking to the guilt. When I was younger, I did something that Now, I was really worried So, I pleaded with the cosmos. I was like, &quot;Please, just let me out unscathed, I will not masturbate Thirty days! Thirty straight days.&quot; Now, I have no idea who I was pleading to, but I think that in times where we feel like we do not have a lot of control we reach out to this cosmos. So now, I was lucky enough but when I look back on that now, is that I viewed masturbation or something that was so bad that I could use it as a bargaining tool. Almost like giving up smoking or drinking. Now, I was very blessed to be raised who never taught me or something I should be ashamed of And I as I have already said, so where was I getting I've come to realize, For example. If you google the term masturbation words like self-abuse come up So, with all this negativity how do we break free of this? I think we need new terminology Because changing the words we use to describe people, are our first steps towards Now, I am not saying or that using proper what I am saying is that in our adult, slang word of tongue, in our day-to-day conversations, this would be helpful. For example. I just stayed in last night. Played a little sexual solitaire. (Laughter) Or, I asked Jenny to come out with me, but she said she needed A little self-relaxation therapy. You know? She was having herself sounded great. Now, I am not saying that this change but what I am asking is for to look at the words that we use and our hang-ups surrounding it. Because if we can change this, we will have a better society. We will be better partners, And the sexual problems that I see daily So, I think now Go home, set the mood, turn the lights down low, and romance the hell out of yourself. (Laughter) (Applause)