Early in the morning of December 14, 2005, pumps at the Taum Sauk power station, marking the of the rockfill embankment, reaching the concrete But the water didn't stop. One of the two pumps the water was lapping over the wall. Within stream cascading over the parapet, pouring against eroded slowly at first, but the hole grew deeper was too late--the footing of the parapet wall had a massive surge of water was unleashed down the This award-winning pumped storage facility, immediately became the center of intense scrutiny. a lot about the field of dam safety. I'm When it was built in the 1960s, the Taum Sauk power plant in the world, at least in terms of it was designed to meet a very specific need. I've and Taum Sauk was one of the largest facilities which eventually merged with Ameren, the actually a net consumer of electricity, power plant. But managing the power grid isn't but also when you can produce it. Large make lots of power, but they couldn't ramp fluctuating demands throughout the day. So, one that's pretty common today, but was innovative one low on the east fork of the Black River Missouri's sixth-highest peak. Between them, a When electrical demands are low, rather than that energy can go toward pumping water from the Then when demand spikes during the day, all cheap electricity can be harvested and put back hydropower. Of course, you don't get all the evaporates or leaks out, and there are losses of overall efficiency of around 70%, it was more than and operating two reservoirs and a power plant The most striking part of the whole facility is sight: a circular dam, sometimes called of a mountain. This is not usually an efficient across valleys so that the natural topography With a so-called "off-channel reservoir" you have the costs and the engineering complexity. But and that height is an essential part of a from falling water is really simple to calculate: of the fluid, the volumetric flow rate, and the only change two of these. So for a specific power trade height for flow. The greater the difference storage facility, the less water you need to move, and thus saves costs. The mountains in southeast project, creating about 750 feet or 230 meters Actually the whole facility is named after which was the original site for the upper about building a project there, so they moved encountered some challenging conditions during the dam to avoid an area of weak geology, giving was built as a rockfill embankment - basically perimeter of the reservoir. Rockfill usually works of material nearby. It's really strong, doesn't much over time like soil fills do. One thing Too many spaces between the rocks. So concrete the reservoir to make the embankment water-tight. the mountain to the generating plant. The inlet bottom of the reservoir to suppress the potential The whole project was designed to be operated another innovation for the time, but one of For most of its life, the Taum Sauk station usually during the hot summer months when night and day. Deregulation of electric power of selling power to other utilities. meaning the upper reservoir cycled up and down, And that was starting to cause some problems. The since it started operating in the 1960s. Several deal with the issue, but the increased cycles worse. At one point, small ponds were built leakage and pump it back inside. In the fall guns and spent more than two million dollars entire reservoir. That essentially fixed the About a year later, in September 2005, the Engineers, or "I-triple-E" declared for its innovations in the world of electrical some of the participants took a tour of the over the parapet wall on one side of the pumping mode to generation to get the water winds from a remnant tropical storm that they hired a dive inspection team to check on the When that geomembrane liner was installed in any penetrations might cause leaks in the future. for the control system to be operated remotely. to the concrete through the liner along their Two cables were run between anchors at the conduits for the sensors were attached to those needed. Unfortunately, the mounting system was and also subject to strong currents as day. Sometime after the spring of 2004, so the sensors inside were providing readings Based on those findings, the operators to subtract two feet from the upper set point two feet or 600 millimeters of freeboard water surface. They figured that doubling that permanent repairs could be made during reservoir was drained. Unfortunately, Less than three months after that first time on December 14, it happened again, this time Once the parapet wall collapsed, the emptying roughly 6 billion liters or 200 million straight toward Johnson's Shut-Ins State Park, By pure luck, the failure happened in the winter superintendent, his wife, and three kids (one of when the water demolished their house. Incredibly, without suffering from injuries and hypothermia. where it would have gone anyway later that The event was investigated by the and the conclusions were surprising. Like most which on their own wouldn't have resulted in a of dollars in damage, plus the effects on the That rockfill it was supposed to be built from designed it intended. There was a lot more soil of the embankment over time. Unsound areas of not properly cleaned out, making the settlement some parts of the parapet wall were a full they started. That settlement wasn't taken into after the lining project in 2004. And with the was no way for the logic controllers to know the Failsafe probes were installed on the parapet wall off the pumps if the level got too high, but they higher than the top of settled parts of the it was already overtopping parts of the wall. that required both sensors to be activated before water was running over the wall didn't trigger check them. And rather than ground truth the all sensor levels, they just decided to add a fix. It would have been so easy to have someone filling the reservoir each day to verify the or even a closed circuit camera, especially happen a few months earlier, but no one knew it the regulator the first time it happened, so Probably the most significant error of was ever built. The design had no spillway. As ways water could get in: rain falling on top or a rainstorm and the redundancies built into the need for a way to let water safely run over the systems for safety, the likelihood for things to sometimes called "normal accidents," a term when systems are complicated, and especially a project's complexity, failures are much failure becomes normal. Compared to an industrial the water gets to the crest, it just goes out. spillway failures in previous videos - but there FERC fined the owner 15 million dollars for ever issued. Five million of that went into a although some recent reporting has alleged State of Missouri also sued, and agreed of which went toward restorations at the state At the same time as Johnson's Shut-Ins State working on rebuilding the upper reservoir at the dam was built on the same alignment and to than trying to repair the flawed rockfill went with an innovative design. The new dam a dry concrete mix that's handled using place using rollers. The new design would issues the original structure struggled with while original embankment. That rock fill was crushed reducing the amount of material hauled into they included a spillway this time. The structure in the United States. The plant reopened in and the project won the US Society on Dams' The failure at Taum Sauk was a wake-up call for implemented some big changes to its oversight of together a task force that issued a technical challenges of pumped storage facilities also updated rules for owners, requiring them Chief Dam Safety Engineer who is responsible at the time. The event triggered states as programs. And most importantly, the failure even for off-channel reservoirs with redundant If you're paying attention to issues related to storage. Particularly as intermittent sources ways to balance out those mismatches in important. Pumped storage has traditionally been but obviously, it comes with a tradeoff. Dams build. They don't fail very often, but when serious consequences to people, property, fail that often, those lessons come slowly and cheaper and much more widespread, it will be storage change. By 2030, some are predicting of battery storage on the grid; that's more than some major changes in how energy is stored. Those how they interact with the grid, and they come safety considerations, but the risk profile is a the top of a mountain. As energy infrastructure probably going to shape the future of A big lesson from Taum Sauk that we learn over and something I care a lot about - it's defined my attention to the news about floods and disasters. Central Europe. There's no such thing as a purely and I'm always trying to understand how like the dam that failed in Poland. There's always and by focusing on different details of the and response - different outlets change how you interpret the facts. That's why Ground News aggregates major news stories easier and more effective. This one update you can see how just reading a single one might story comes with quick visual breakdowns and tags the sources backed by ratings from independent you can see that 43 percent of the reporting and only 17 percent lean right. 50 percent are have been rated "High Factuality." They that shows you stories mainly covered stuff you might totally miss if you only Maybe more than anything else, disasters shape to do better in the future, so it's important like what happened in central Europe. In that and Ground News hands some of that power back landscape, they're offering a huge discount 40 percent off the Vantage subscription, their features. That's ground dot news the link in the description. Thank you for