Imagine that we need one million dollars long as we don't reach this amount, we're and its small percentage of millionaires, we can seven figures in a bank account. to be happy and feel incomplete as long as we've managed to save a hundred thousand dollars, if we take the requirement of happiness we've set thousand dollars in debt. It's not comfortable to and implies a state of owing something, which, we obtain what we want is this debt paid off. If and easy to lose because everyone wants it. In our Suppose we let our life satisfaction depend we set ourselves up for stress, discontent, not having what we want, losing what we have, A much better alternative would be If we experience no shortage in getting our needs And the quickest way to reach The less you want, the more you have. And when we're less stressed about missing This video delves into the benefits of being carefree life, and how we can experience abundance When happiness is in short supply, The requirements for happiness we've decided for high social status, a near-perfect partner, Imagine slaving away endlessly to meet these nagging sense of dissatisfaction (because as long Imagine that when we finally obtain our holy we've worked so hard for would mean the end of our The more specific our conditions for it becomes to be satisfied. Especially when circumstances that are incredibly fickle; even of our well-being. An example of this would be life," which entails a "perfect" house, "perfect" and the list goes on. Satisfaction requires them isn't "perfect," then this person's sense As the backwards law shows us: the more we need and the more we want, the less we feel we have. we'll experience abundance. Abundance implies That's subjective: for some, it's never enough. of what's enough tends to change over time. For enough money to buy food and going to parties careers, we could very well be dissatisfied with The good news is that we can change the less we need to have enough, the easier by the fickleness of the outside world, as a plentiful. Just look at the oceans; despite all the last four billion years, they're still around. essentials, like clothing, food, shelter, and or offline. This person's satisfaction depends So, it's tough to harm this person's contentment available, contrary to what's scarce. position becomes. However, we can't be is part of being human. But we can manage our of scarcity and lack and predominantly in the "If you want to make a man happy, add not unto his Here are a couple of ways to channel our desires (1) The power of moderation In a previous video, we've explored the philosophy Epicurus distinguished three kinds of desires: and rest), natural and unnecessary desires and vain desires (like power, extreme wealth, should focus on the first (which are necessary are unnecessary and impossible to satisfy). of needs that, in the modern world, aren't thus, easy to obtain. For example: listening to Looking at the amount of music, games, say that these pleasures are abundant. But we is that overindulgence leads to dissatisfaction we need more and more, as our senses become less more we need, the less abundance we'll experience. to engage with them in ways that disempower us. to curb our desires, so they do not rule us. If we master these virtues, then pleasures serve us only when we choose, so they maintain (2) Being thankful for what we have Humans tend to focus on what they But doing so means we exchange potential sources pain that comes with that. The things we Is there anything easier to obtain than what acutely available than what's already in our we'll be dissatisfied, so we need to put in the away from what we don't have and start focusing Being grateful for what we have increases many people view the houses they live too ugly. But they could also see the glass as live small but cozily, and old doesn't always mean better-looking houses are available, the places There are many people with worse living spaces, any home is a blessing and something to be from dissatisfaction to gratitude, the value cherish what we previously devalued. Gratitude, satisfaction; it's also a way to save money. Had have eventually ended up with the same level of (3) Contemplating the price of our needs Our needs come with a price. In general, expensive. And it's easier to acquire something the level of difficulty depends on our context. time obtaining a costly watch, which, for a Even though the watch's price remains the than for the poor. So, when selecting our needs, American philosopher Henry David and I quote: "The price of anything is the Whenever we desire something, we could immediately for this? How many hours of work does this this work affect my health? Things that need a cheap. Items that require a large amount of life needs that are cheap and easy to fulfill, we based on having plenty of resources or the minor Taking an expensive mortgage may not be such a for it. Even though we might buy a dream house, (4) Staying out of long-term debt Being in debt can be a very stressful what we owe shackles us. Although we associate debt to one of the most tormenting, nagging, So, how is the mind a creditor? Well, every we're instantly in debt. We moved from in which we owe ourselves nothing as we have The mind demands that we fulfill this desire, like a debt collector. To a certain extent, this we must satisfy our hunger with food. When this debt by sleeping. But in most parts of the paying off these natural desires isn't hard to do. in long-term desires that we must fulfill to feel long-term debt: a feeling of lack that only which can leave us feeling incomplete for a long people handle unrequited love. Imagine having doesn't feel the same way about you. If you're that this person someday reciprocates, you've Your mind has turned the romantic interest prerequisite for happiness. So, you'll be which probably never happens. Hope, therefore, Instead of letting our happiness depend on especially those that take ages to realize (or on finding joy in more readily available that we shouldn't have long-term goals, but that joie de vivre solely depend on realizing the big. with what's abundant. But this often means that conquer our desire for the world. Ultimately, The first one is by accumulating more we become dependent on outside circumstances putting a chain on our desires, so we in the present, more satisfying to the more abundant the world appears. Thus, Thank you for watching.