Do you find yourself using the same Simple words like good, bad, nice, Today you'll expand your vocabulary with to express your ideas fluently, Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course, I'm Jennifer Now Let's get started. First of all, just know there is You can and should use these The goal of this lesson is just Learning these alternatives your comprehension when natives use these words. Now let's start with a word And just remember that native speakers are Our first word, our vacation was amazing. I'm sure you know the word amazing. And you might think, well this is It's a replacement to good, very good or great. And that's true. But this replacement word And I say I'm guilty of it because there So why just use the same word over and over So let's review the most common So here the alternative word is incredible. Incredible. Now you can modify this to make it sound My English progress in just Astonishing now hopefully that's something you play a role in helping you get astonishing If you think so, then put that's right, that's We also use Amazing to describe scenery For example, the sunset was Amazing. Now don't worry about taking notes because You can find the link in the description. We're bringing incredible talent and. Tools. The story of the Lake Penyer drilling It was initially constructed in 1436, but the astonishing front facade wasn't Our next common word? The restaurant was nice. Nice. This is a positive adjective. It's a feeling of general satisfaction. Of course you can use it to describe For example, you can say what a So this is something you can use every single day. Or you can say the receptionist Instead of describing him Now that is a person. You can also describe an Our stay at the hotel was delightful, delightful. We had an enjoyable time at the park. It's been a night. It's been a pleasant surprise. To be involved in this kind of thing and even though we put cream cheese in it. Now, sleeping is delightful. Here's a common word you probably use every day. The exam was easy. Easy you can say. I studied for weeks, so the I find that most students know The exam was a piece of cake or Jennifer makes learning English easy peasy. So you just add the word peasy here. Easy peasy. It sounds very fun, very So if you agree that Jennifer put that's right, but that's Or you could say you make speaking Look easy, look effortless. Now you could say the instructions were easy to easy to follow with the instructions So you can use both or you can just use one. If it would work, we know it. Would work. Piece of cake. I think most people would get behind it. It's effortless. We just. Do it without really thinking about it. Seems pretty straightforward. Now, what's the opposite of easy? The exam was hard. You can say I didn't study. So the exam was challenging. The exam was difficult, or you could be a piece of cake or easy peasy, It was arduous, arduous. Both strenuous and arduous mean so they're generally used with physical tasks. You can also say I had a tough day The cosmetics were challenging. It's. Going to be difficult to get them to pay. Because of this, couples avoid tough How about this easy word? The traffic downtown is always bad instead of bad. You can say the traffic this morning was dreadful. Dreadful. Or I had a terrible headache last night. Instead of bad headache, the Appalling. This is more severe than bad. It means very bad. So often these alternatives can replace You know, they're just so earnest and dreadful. I asked. My son, who is by the far terrible, I wouldn't crave it, but it's not. Terrible. How about this common one? She's a happy person. I think this describes me overall. Instead, you can say she's a joyful person. She's a cheerful person. You can say he was elated, elated She felt ecstatic, ecstatic. When she got the job. It was so good. And I brought the joyful grains. I know that others felt devastated or elated. But I didn't care. I was jumping up for joy. I was ecstatic. I was happy. Our next common word. That was a smart question instead of smart. You can say that was a clever question. That was a brilliant question. Brilliant sounds like very smart. Or you can say he's extremely intelligent. He's extremely bright. You don't have to use the modifier. Extremely is just an option. Just like you could say he's He gave an astute, astute, he gave That is an excellent word to use in a You can say his ingenious ingenious. His ingenious method solved the issue quickly. There are more clever ways to Yeah, I think that that's very Well, local officials came Here's a common one that native speakers overuse. The documentary was interesting. Interesting instead of interesting. You can say the history of Fascinating. Or the speaker gave an intriguing, His captivating performance held the These are great alternatives because but the three alternatives I gave you I just think it's a fascinating. Idea. I think it's so captivating to see this couple I find the. Definition of compassion. Is a fascinating 1 and. It's not one that I hear people talk. About our next common word. Thanks for the beautiful flowers. Again, there is nothing but there are so many beautiful alternatives. Like the word gorgeous. Her garden is gorgeous. The colors of the leaves in Or the flower vase is exquisite, exquisite. Now notice I said vase. Both pronunciations vase which rhymes with Both are used in American English, is the American pronunciation and and generally in American English we But for this specific word, vase or Vaz, There are kind, loving men looking Deep sea. Corals actually come in a Cajal was in awe of its exquisite detail, Our next common word? I have an important meeting this afternoon. How many times do you describe I know I sure use it a lot. Instead, you can say the meeting is crucial. Crucial or this is a significant, You can say it's vital vital or it's essential essential to get enough rest Influence is crucial in the Now the site is a work. In progress, but it's significant. Progress because it's designed Most having these vital money talks you to have them during marriage from Our next common word. The movie was funny instead of funny. You can say the comedian is hilarious. Hilarious. This sounds like very funny. Or her reaction was humorous. Her reaction was comical. Instead of saying you're very funny, Keep in mind though, that this so it does have a slightly different meaning Made-up nonsense gibberish He's very keen on his. His work is is very humorous anyway. He was a very witty, very wise. Man, how about this common word? I made-up a big mistake rejecting the job offer. You can say it was a substantial, Or this is an enormous enormous. That sounds like very big enormous project. You can use enormous to describe objects. You can also use massive. Elephants are massive. Elephants are massive. Elephants are enormous. We've come to a. Very. Substantial phase one deal patient. All these things are areas where and there have been significant payouts. These are massive machines. And what's the opposite of big? It was a small mistake. A small mistake. Let's review some common alternatives. Don't be mad. It's a tiny mistake. We can fix it. Tiny is very small. So if you want to minimize the importance of Here's a great one. I made some minor changes to the report. Minor changes. Or you could describe an object and It's an alternative to saying small cars, only compact cars can park You can say we invested a Soil is mostly made of little tiny rocks. It's texture depends on the size of those rocks. In between all these minor wear a mask, get a vaccine, you know the drill. So although the findings were pretty modest, Here's one that might apply to you. Many students are scared of You can say she became terrified. Terrified. That sounds like very scared. She became terrified when she found out she had to give a presentation or the Frightened instead of scared. Now to say extremely scared, I'm petrified of spiders. We are. Terrified of being wrong? What are you frightened of ever losing? My engagement, right It was. I was absolutely petrified. Of this man. Let's review this common word. It was brave of you to agree to of 2000 people even though you were petrified. It was brave of you. You can say she made the It's brave. It's bold. She made the bold decision or it was courageous. It takes a lot of courage. It was courageous of you to quit your job. For the first time in my life, I understood. How courageous she is. So we were so proud of him because Now that's a pretty bold statement. There are many more alternatives to and honestly, this lesson benefits me as well. It's a reminder to myself and all native speakers I was going to say amazing alternatives because I overuse that word, all the So if you want me to make another lesson put more, more, more and I will find I will find more spectacular alternatives for you. So put more, more and more in the comments. And of course, make sure you like this lesson, share it with your friends and subscribe so And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or Now here are some other words that you should Make sure you watch it right now.