Normal people who happen to be they can commit monstrous deeds. The acts committed were monstrous, Why does this country go on when dealing with the president whose behavior in relation to the welfare of the state, The power of ideological certainty today largely driven by the fear of loneliness. You meet people and ask them What is white and what is black? Great, but be careful and don't be executed like Socrates! I'm not a monster! Action. My name is Nelly Ben Hayoun. I run a college without tuition fees, I decided to find the origin of knowledge In his coffin. What is knowledge? Who owns our thoughts? Can a monster think? Am I a monster? Are you a monster? I have a partner on this trip Her name was Hannah Arendt. She died. She was a political theorist. - Hello! I'm so glad to have met you. You go... Go there. You know, I think they are an integral part of all conversations with everyone thinker I met. - I understand. -as you can see... Yeah, that's what you did, yes. This is... Do you even recognize this one Well, now I see what you're talking about. Of course I knew her, but I don't recognize her I met her in April 1972. A FRIEND OF HANNAH ARENDT They invited her to give a lecture at... At my college. I didn't invite her. I didn't at the time -Hannah Arendt is a political theorist? - Is she dead? Is she alive? -Hannah, no... Just the basics, and then we can deepen the topic. So let's get back to the basics of the basics. Physically we know that she was born in 1906. Who is she? Hannah Arendt is born When she died, she had several and people... Now. In the beginning... it is recognized in ever wider circles as one of the most important If we look at what is happening, already around the world, transition to authoritarianism, use of propaganda, it... ...the systematic lying that goes on, these are all things she claimed that they are characteristic of the 20th century, and at the end of his book says that totalitarian regimes like that i can finish but the temptation to continue using them I think it's the world When it comes to ideology, understanding how ideology -takes its form and content. I'm really interested as an educational worker and someone and it is part of the concept to a certain extent -maybe it develops a form of ideology. For her, ideology has always been For her, it's not a question For her, ideology becomes a kind of system, includes a form of consistent system which tries to explain everything. Ideology includes everyone thinks the same way all adopt the same type of procedures, so she is very critical of the idea CITY HALL IN SHEFFIELD, UK How should I address you? - Shall I address you as lord? You, personally, can call me Magid. I think people call me Magid. - But the official title... ...says Venerable... The official title is Venerable, first citizen, Lord Mayor of Sheffield, I don't expect people to call me that. -Welcome to Sheffield Town Hall. Let me explain. So this is called the vestibule, and these are portraits of the former This is the first whose photo we have, - there are more, but we don't have photos. All these are... ...former mayors. When I first came, I thought about how he would do it this photo of mine stay long This photo will stay there forever, I look at them and think, &quot;They're not telling a story.&quot; Or you can say they tell a story It would be wonderful for me if each about his time, to tell a story So I decided with mine I decided to bring my own photographer, Everyone from the city administration broke down. They said: &quot;You came here What is the purpose of being the mayor? You'll ruin everything!&quot; They didn't understand why I did it. I keep coming across institutions, who claim they have always done so This is not an excuse, to say that something Traditions... We had traditions that women are not allowed to vote, Do you understand what I'm saying? Traditions come and go, and realize it was stupid shit you educate yourself on a matter But people are sometimes afraid of change! - This was recorded here? You are alone, I guess. Yes I am. So the photo starts in color, and ends in black and white. All the clothes I have I chose myself because I wanted to make an impression but at the same time that I came That's why, for example, I have boots, This is a room for all council members. Its main purpose is that once a month, the first Wednesday of the month, let's hold a council meeting in it. Here people argue, all councilors... We accept suggestions and decisions here In that room over there, a lady named... It's a lady. So the lady who is the bearer of the sceptre walks and says: &quot;Please stand up.&quot; No decisions are made in the city Everyone stand up Venerable, Lord Mayor, Councilor Magid... and I think: &quot;I'm wearing a T-shirt that says: and a sombrero.&quot; And then I remember so I get nervous because I think: &quot;God, I'm really going in I walk in and say, &quot;Sit down, please.&quot; And everyone sits down. I join the meeting very seriously, and I think to myself, &quot;What the hell is going on?&quot; For me, it meant achieving something and then I talked about why I work It's like... It's very... people argue and it gets dramatic. People from the gallery shout: &quot;Shame!&quot; Something special indeed. It's very brisk. I moved to Sheffield as a refugee, I didn't know English, I didn't know anything, but then, when you are a child I also enrolled in school here, even as a child i... I remember: &quot;When I grow up I want to be an elephant.&quot; I soon realized that I could not be an elephant. Then I wanted to be an astronaut. But then I didn't know exactly what I wanted, and if someone had told me that I would be I always... People always ask me: &quot;Who was your role model in your youth?&quot; -That. I wouldn't say it was any My role model was the Internet. In the true sense of the word If I was depressed, or learn some things. Every time... The internet was everything because, although I lived in one he was the whole world to me. I would go online, the source of my knowledge was the internet. - Where is the source of knowledge? The rich are the ones who decided about the future of other people's education. Amazing thing that we don't have to rely on the rich because we have sources, like the internet, well Whereas rather knowledge, one could say, You had to really try to leave You could, say... And so there are incredible stories about people who traveled I think Sheffield has a history, the history of political radicalism. So, for example, the suffragette movement, the movement to give women the right to vote and the first is the Society of Suffragettes Let's not forget Mrs. Mary Ann Rosen which contributed to the abolition I think one of the reasons is if we're being honest, that it all boils down to What I mean by that is, if you look at all forms of government, the people who are there and guide us are not a reflection of people who Look, for example, at our government, they are millionaires. How could they So they can truly understand the benefits which art brings Everything has always been theirs One way of control or power so they don't have enough knowledge Because if everyone really understood that power rests in the hands of the majority, not the minority, we could easily turn the situation around. But if you're at the top and you want to stay there, one of the methods you use is that Political thinkers are really important or one topic that represents the foundation. A theme that Arendt promotes is pluralism. And pluralism... She means by that term we have a different view on it. Policy! There is no politics without pluralism. That is the reason why is most of what we call today and try to agree on what it kills politics, it kills pluralism. According to Arendt, this is There is no... When he talks about political action is pluralism. It is my great pleasure that the City of Sheffield voted the decision on the university and about free education HEADQUARTERS OF THE INTERNET ARCHIVE ORGANIZATION, You talk about the Internet as a place where we can share and transfer from one generation to another. Archaic form of the species Homo sapiens it basically didn't need the internet No! Internet an incredible step. Is that so? It's not just a mechanism computers are already in the game. -Is that so? Those computers are starting to get interesting. We wanted to create them so that people, Even in the 80s it was a radical idea. Then we wanted to make everyone a publisher. It seemed like a radical idea. Now these things are common In which direction is it all moving? How will we achieve that everyone's ideas worth propagating and being propagated and that they are kept in an appropriate manner. We continue to upgrade and preserve diversity This is the headquarters of the organization These are the people who dedicated that information is constantly available, free to everyone and everywhere. So we don't charge anything. The idea is to try to live as a universal approach to knowledge. We digitize 1000 books a day. A thousand books? Hundreds. We digitize in many countries. We search and find what those things are What are those... Family matters, two centuries Who decides on priorities? Most often, these are libraries that Then we digitize them Or people donate books to us, and we want them This... ...are Internet Archive servers. This is ten petabits of data. -They go in the order mega, giga, tera, peta. There are ten petabits on each side. From the Internet Archive's 40-petabit collection. The cool thing about this is that the lights Every time the light blinks it means someone is uploading something from the Internet Archive. I look at it as on the open shelves of the library. You know when you go to the library That. This is even better. You can see that someone in the world -Do you sometimes sit here and just...? - Isn't that wonderful? Always. What happens when there is no electricity? Turn off. AND...? No one has access to that copy. Luckily we have another copy We also have a partial copy in Amsterdam and a partial copy We really do. - This... All this... It's us! That's us. These people spent their lives It's like the Terracotta Army Good? These... If you work in the Archive organization we will make a statuette. This is me. This is... There are more and more and more. Good? These are just... -More supercomputers. This is the World Wide Web. Universal access to all knowledge. What does that mean? So we started building this collection with the idea of being the fundamental center of the archive which can then be upgraded to a library which people can use for education, for journalism, for daydreaming, for... and return back. It's a repeating cycle. What do you think about VR? Would you use it? And how? Who would you invite to that space? What do you think are the technical applications? Educational applications? That you have to form a group of people to think about the future of this technology, who would you include in that group? What do you see as advantages and pitfalls? What about Google? What would she think of Google? Hannah. Yes, you know nothing about this. VR i.e. virtual reality is interactive computer generated which provides access to the virtual world when you put on your glasses. AR ie augmented reality is when there are some digital elements through the lens I hope that makes sense. If you think about Google's It is the organization of information and in a universally accessible way. Often times we look at VR as I would say, therefore, that we are directed I think if you look at AR for example, AR adds intelligent layers to reality. Can we help guide you using technology? This implies a great responsibility. There are many powerful things you can do So, now is the time to get new ones how people will use them. In the sense, do we consider VR or the direction in which it moves VR, AR, immersive technologies, it's like It's like, &quot;I can take you anywhere.&quot; I can translate things in real time. I can... So that's... It's like embellishing things but you also make them more powerful. And for that, much more is needed Is that so? One of the things I dream about is That we don't have to have real zoos. The children could go to the zoo And giraffes would live in the wild and they would see them in VR and they could come quite close to them. So, in a way, it is about knowledge and helping to add intelligent and such things. In this context, what is education then? I think Hannah Arendt best characterized by the term In German selbstdenker. She did not belong to any school. She was not a Marxist. She was not a liberal... I think it's one of the reasons is experiencing such a revival that when ideologies fall apart, Good? Arendt's aspects are numerous which certain people consider radical, and others conservative. She was very conservative She believed that people must be and that education really should be UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE, UK INVESTMENT EXPENDITURE TAXATION PROFIT AFTER TAX This is the model of the British economy which they invented and which is a metaphor about money and water. We have a source of income, cash flow, liquidity, outflow, etc. However, this is not just a metaphor He takes that metaphor and calibrates it. So water flows here cash flow in the economy. Can't we speed it up to the present moment? To some extent. There were problems in the 1970s because this doesn't really include - Let's see how it works. - Water goes everywhere! create a device for knowledge as well. Of course. That would be great. I would love that. -Ready? Who pays for higher education? It used to be paid for by the government, but they want to stop this. So, what those from the government decided, and make students pay. So, students have to pay. How will the students get the money? The government borrows it from the bank here from and bring it back here. Put it there so instead of it going this way, So it does not affect in any way Everything the government produced on students' bank accounts. Tell me, let's really make it ...thinking in the box which is somewhat different Knowledge is a really interesting idea. Should we try to create a map? -We can try. I would do it in a way For this area, I would start with birth. - And I would put death at the bottom. I would make a big waterfall. And they kind of fall down this device. And eventually they die. I would put school years in the middle, and here the college age and here the employment relationship. So when you are at this level, some of these people are employed, Some of these people are employed. These are in college, Who pays for it? Now I have to look at my Philips device and all streams of that device. It is interesting and implementing this in a Philips device? Well, this is... - This is parallel. This is an independent device, but they are linked. -Economy is related to knowledge. - They are mutually connected. Who pays the cost of education Who has the most money right now? It's Google, it's a company based on There is a strong connection between Do you think it's always been like that? -Connected? It's completely clear to the engineers that the industrial revolution was You know, from our perspective, wealth that was the result So, knowledge is directly related That. EXPORT Basically, if I wanted to Water, yes, water for two reasons. First, it's completely... we need water, and there is water It is also a metaphor for everything else. Therefore, physically... Everything starts with water. There is a belief that they are completely separated from the economy. That. That's exactly what I'm questioning. - Because someone... I think she was so caught up in it to make people aware... Hannah Arendt was aware of this and not in a utopian way. Because she believed that the type of politics, which she sometimes called It happened in the Grand Palace, it happened in the Paris Commune. So, it is not just a matter of a utopian idea. It existed and can exist again. If humans create it, but... In his effort to emphasize dignity she sometimes makes a clear difference between what he calls political and considers the economy to be social. see, it means it makes two major differences between politics and economics. My personal criticism of Arendt would be, if you want to get the idea, Arendt's idea of political action, then you have to deal thoroughly economic conditions that made it possible. That would be an internal criticism PUBLIC SCHOOL IN TOKYO, JAPAN -I'm glad. This is our school, There are no children at the moment because they are upstairs. We just got back, you see. last week from my summer camp so they write a review above about summer camp. Shall we go up? One of the questions that comes up is what makes your school different I think it is one of the main ones concept-based curriculum. It is not activity based. We want our children to adopt and to be able to appreciate the concepts of connection as you said earlier, So I can solve one problem acquire skills and ways of thinking and to try to see how what kind of relationship they have with each other Each year of education includes Free time literally means We don't tell them what they should do, they decide that entirely themselves. I can laze around and read a book, I can go outside to the park. If they go outside, we don't monitor them, we trust their judgement. And that is a really important time It is almost one hundred percent focused SCHOOL OF POET COMPUTING, NEW YORK We wanted to create We realized that people are coming and they spend a lot of money to come and we considered it foolishness. We could come up with something shorter, some more intense experience. More like... Something between internships So we designed this alternative, where people come for ten weeks Is there a reason why didn't you ask It's about ten weeks, -which is equivalent to a master's degree. Because we don't have an official status. So, you know... We do not have accreditation and... We work the way we want to work, We don't want to go through that procedure. The official name of our school is SFCP, you must not add the word &quot;school&quot; because it has to go through the Board of Education, and we are indeed an alternative. We didn't go that way. So... So we don't have accreditation, They don't leave with the title, do you think that one of the key messages may be that that education should exist She considers the situation to be catastrophic Education is for her something that should be partial But by no means a state-political issue. The only role of the state would be to ensure public education. But to what happens in the classroom in her opinion, What about demographics It is mainly about the faculty We have students in the age range of 20 up to 50, 60 years. We had students who were It is often the case that they have made up their minds It lasts ten weeks, so you have a chance You say: &quot;I want to take a break for three months My course is called recreating the past. Each week we discuss a different one For example, about Romona, which has been in Paris since the 1970s and writes code to manage the plotter for creating algorithmic drawings. Students study her work, but they also have to recreate one of the using modern tools. What I find beautiful There is often a gap. And that gap is really beautiful and we talk about it, we think about it. For me, that's exactly what poetry is and in what we say to students ADDIS ABABA, ETHIOPIA What is the National Museum of Ethiopia? The National Museum is, well... - Four collections make it special. The most important are archaeological where you can see fossils... ...the origin of man, the origin of life. So here I will see the origin of man? That. You know Ethiopia is the country of origin. Here is the origin of human beings. We claim this because of the discovery of Lucy in the National Museum. NATIONAL MUSEUM OF ETHIOPIA WELCOME TO THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF ETHIOPIA A MILLION YEARS OF LIFE AND CULTURE Good afternoon. I'm glad. We... I do. This is... We also practice it in the south of France, Are you a museum curator? Yes, I am the curator of the museum. - We have two departments in the museum. Laboratory and showroom here. We'll see...? Science setup Lucy. -Scientific setup Lucy? It is the first fossil found with the ability of bipedalism. That. Lucy is unique in that in 1974. They realized that the first... They found almost 40% of her body. It provided detailed information even about the morphology of the sexual system. In many ways, it is unique. The research about her is still ongoing. -Was she able to shape thoughts? Her brain volume is about 500 cm3. But brain volume also increases over time She was capable of thinking. She was, yes. What I want to ask is whether or not she was or is it the origin of knowledge? Ours. - Because she is the first... our, for us, Homo sapiens sapiens, It is the origin of knowledge because it was found so long ago. She gave us all the information about the size. It is the origin of knowledge Lucy. Lucy. You died. Bride, I can see your wisdom tooth. I think you are... ...died young. Please, is there anything? -Lucy has a wisdom tooth. I mean her biological age. - You mean her biological... She died young. At about 18 or 20 years old. It's really sad that you died so young. You didn't get to see so many things, but i have to admit lucy that I am delighted that you are Metasebia, and her colleagues found a great friend. -Friend? Ardia? who is much older than you. Some million years. But at least you're not alone. I think that's important too. They sacrificed themselves for us, - That's one version of the story. EARLY HOMINIDS IN AFRICA THE EVOLUTION OF MAN THE ETHIOPIAN RECORDS RESEARCH OF THE PAST: METHODS We don't know the exact pronunciation. We have certain clues because of the Coptic, which is used today in the liturgy, which is actually the last stage But we are not sure which one it would be in the ancient Egyptian language. BRITISH MUSEUM, UK Tell me more about that where this Rosetta Stone was found. Yes, it's called the Rosetta Stone Can you show on the map where? Here is Rosetta. Napoleon, of course, was not there? No, he wasn't. He was found by one of the He found it simply immediately understood the importance of this text, and later, after the defeat of Napoleon, What is this text about? It is, in fact, the same text, The text says that every temple a special shrine with a special who should be worshipped. Do you want to say that it is basically communication That, obviously, was the most important If I send a product from one I need to write addresses, quantity or some other data and therefore it was the first use Later, of course, it was adjusted what was really important but also for the needs of the state. Do you know the weight of the Rosetta Stone? It's written in here somewhere, I don't think it's easy... - Oops! Yes, because I wanted to take it with me There are many copies in stores, I myself have several at home. How does Hannah Arendt define the monster? People think that, if someone commits a crime that person is a monster. By monster they mean a sadistic person, a person who does evil for pleasure, a perverted person. is that normal people, if they find themselves in certain situations, monstrous deeds. Therefore, she will say that there were acts that they were extreme, but being a man is not a monster and that's what you have to... If you want to understand evil in the 20th century, you have to understand people too. They don't have to be psychotic. They don't have to be excluded from everything. People can be... ...in normal situations, but if they find themselves in certain situations can participate in any What I suggest next of the human condition from a point of view and our latest fears. What I propose is, therefore, Nothing more than that TOKYO, JAPAN Nelly Dream. CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION OF THE SEVEN-DAY SEMINAR, HYPNO-POTENTIAL TAKAKO FURUKAWA AMERICAN HIP BOARD Take a deep breath and I'll count Gradually your body relaxes. And gradually this door opens and can access their beliefs. They are usually suppressed, you cannot see them. When you are in a state of hypnosis, the mind is open. The unconscious mind is open and connected to some kind of higher self. You can call it that. Either in spirit or... ...kind of... ...of unlimited consciousness. And then you can get answers. That. Shall we try? -Three... -Two... One... Do you see anything? Or... Therefore? Or... Images... -Hi! Then clap twice. NOH THEATER That. BUNRAKU THEATER AWAJI DOLL PAINTING COURSE Hannah Arendt, the Japanese way. COURSE IN MAKING AWAJI DOLLS FROM WOOD So, I... I travel the world and try to find Hannah Arendt. That's the head I'm making. MAYWAY DENKI WORKSHOP HANNAH ARENDT CENTER, NEW YORK STATE Oh, no. Is this really happening? So, in short, this is a smoking porch A smoking porch? Roger could do better for you but when he went to Leon Botstein, President of Bard College, and asked that the Hannah Arendt Center be at Mary McCarthy's house because Mary McCarthy was the best ...he agreed on the condition that I leave because Hannah Arendt, as you know, Oh, not on the dress. This is our seminar room, which was transferred from her apartment after her death. And Jerry Kohn, says it is not covered by the will. The executor called him and he replied that the Bard would take him. People sit behind him and write. We sometimes serve food on it, So this horrible Formica thing she had it in her apartment and wrote on it. In fact, this works very emotionally I jumped on him when I got him Alright. This is really happening. What a pleasure it is to move It is probably the biggest one for me I think we should... Be careful not to fall. -Let's see. That's great, great. It's good now. We can for a start And should we take clean chairs from the inside? Yes you're right. I think these are dirty. Yes, one, perfect. EXCERPT FROM THE LECTURE: &quot;What do we do when we're not working Where are we when we we are with no one but ourselves?&quot; HANNAH ARENDT BLUCHER HANOVER, GERMANY What I love about Hannah Arendt is that she was willing to write To take risks, to be provocative, brave. She was fearless and that's what I want in the center. That's what attracted me to her. And that's what I want in the center, We keep repeating that the Center is Arendt a place for reflection in the world in the spirit of Hannah Arendt. There is fear, collective fear related to knowledge We live the last 200 or so years in the period which Nietzsche called the death of God, and Hannah Arendt a period of homelessness and loneliness. It's a time when... A fundamental question &quot;Who am I and why am I here?&quot; We don't have clear answers. It used to be religion, What, ethnic group, tribe. And when you don't have clear answers to that, Arendt calls this condition metaphysical anxiety, not belonging, loneliness and a feeling of complete deprivation. In such a period we tend to... ...as people who need meaning cling to ideology. To grab hold of some kind of comforting truth. AND... ...that's what we saw ...both with Nazism and communism, However, it is a wider phenomenon because it does not only refer to Nazism but also to modern times because the power of ideological certainty today largely driven by the fear of loneliness. It gives us ideological certainty At that very moment people when people question it. It's not just a political threat, it is You know, the amazing thing is, that I am questioning the views of supporters or that they do it to opponents it wouldn't just be a word we are talking about evil here. We're talking about someone trying and we express... Disagreement... ...a logical question of character, This is because we are in great fear from a sense of self-esteem because caught into that political movement For me it's fear. It is the deepest source of fear that deep anxiety that our loneliness will be revealed. Here it is! It just pours like from a cable. Monster from the sky I'm sorry. - Do you want to come under the umbrella? -Shall we? Alright. Ugh. It's pretty bad. Alright. Here we are. Oh God. - Sorry about this. I guess this is... Not completed. - Is that Hannah Arendt? - He doesn't have hair yet. It is also obvious that we should pay her back everything, and there is also a kimono that is made I understand. And that's, you know... Awaji doll maker - Oh, wonderful. I like it. I didn't plan for it to be BARD COLLEGE, NEW YORK STATE Bonjour. To address you Come in. I'd love to hear what you think about this? So, what is it for? The idea was that when I go and meet to persuade them to make a doll with me. Tell me something about yourself and your relationship? You started telling me about it. I was a student. It would be an exaggeration to say I met her when I was sixteen. I graduated at the age of 20, and she was towards me If I learned anything from Hannah Arendt, i.e. how one would react As you can see, as if you can see that the clock, mechanism... ...started. You could watch him think, in response to a stimulus This is where you spent the most time? I don't know, I am, tell me. - What I want to ask you is... I am going through this journey because I'm trying to get to the heart of it - and I understand... Where is the origin of knowledge? -Where? to his students -The origin of knowledge. I want to take it back in my trunk or at least I believe that maybe To bring it to them in September The origin of knowledge. I didn't break my head &quot;If thinking is an activity and the only adequate metaphor for it obtained from our usual is the feeling of being alive, from that it results ...the aim or purpose of thinking To really live do you have to consider the other side and Our ability to adapt and therefore requires that, in order to be proper You have to be and that's not right. Oh yeah... We have to be very careful related to... Especially in this country now where we as citizens we put up with it and that's how we make it possible. It doesn't seem like we're enabling it, Why didn't the country stop it? When they started separating immigrants, children from their parents? Why does this country carry on when there is work with the president whose behavior and destructive and maybe the whole world? I've been traveling a lot in recent months, as a scientist, It seems like there is no end to summer to our students at some point Meditate and act according to what you say, Well, to think and act I can tell you, it's not that simple. What was her look Are our thoughts our own creations? Well, she wanted to clearly discern knowledge from thinking. Since the knowledge I want to know how a certain mechanism works. I want to understand... This includes the type of knowledge that is required Reflections deals with meaning. Try to see the meaning of things, that endless activity is what she thought Behind everything is always personal experience and I really think it's... That you have to understand her experiences and I find it true. There is always a way that it is rooted and based on experience, and not just something elusive and abstract. MAKING KIMONO MAKING COSTUMES Explain to her what is going on. -Okay, we'll make... -Hannah with H. We will make you a very beautiful kimono of hand painted cotton fabric here which Nelly had so successfully crafted, and we will leave the kimono sleeves for semi-official occasions. SICILY, ITALY You are one of the winners of one of the for political thoughts. I really don't know why. It's funny that they gave us an award Being physically in prison includes a lot of You must not have any feelings, thoughts, you can't be critical so it's really weird that we received this award because we were a clean, naked body. It is... ...an interesting contradiction. You know, culture only exists Do you think you are a monster? Personally, I don't define myself as a monster. I'm more of a punk or... I don't know, witch? In the lawsuit against us some things are listed. that we fought with... ...invisible devils. We are just boxing, simulated boxing. It's no fight with devils, but they were saying, &quot;Oh, we should call This is nothing new when it comes to women. What I am facing now ...what kind of monster it is To my mind. I discovered that actually in me but not in the sense of a good criminal but of a person who devalues everything because that happens to the people who stay They want to destroy everything I realized that such I carry a person inside me. It happens to me sometimes nowadays in a moment I start devaluing everything. Let's say, when I try to create and I approach it as that person, I think, &quot;Who the hell is that? I'm trying to make punk music, a person approaches me and says: They want everything to be beautiful It is an integral part of criminal culture. Before you do something like what Pussy Riot is what procedure preceded it? We thought about doing something because we were really interested that relationship between the state and the Church, and we practiced for three weeks. We quickly made songs for the occasion, all in one day, and it all started... ...with my performance of Rachmaninoff, Russian composer. And, this... Can you sing now? But it is slower in the original. So, it is about his interpretation We practiced once in the basement of the old church, they told us: We had to go to the metro, and we finished So three weeks but you weren't allowed to exercise On the day it took place you had to I mean, did you have a map of the place? -For positioning and reference purposes? - Have you prepared all that? And the position of each person. While we were practicing, they would split into different groups so one group would practice and the other group would act so you know you have to keep up the gig It is important to. Every second is important because you start playing, the cops show up in five seconds and you're not done yet So even if they try to grab you, you still have to play and we knew how to use that in Sochi The video shows us being beaten, It hurts, we are in shock, Do you want to be a guard? - I'd rather be a guard. Because I have that guard in me, Okay, we can do that, and tell me what I have to do. &quot;The answer, it seems, depends on that And power, it seems, is an instrument of law... What are the established laws of existence? -On instincts of dominance.&quot; I think your project is cool so... But for me... ...for me it's like practicing magic, what you are trying to do. Because you can't... You can't really have... ...detection algorithm So it comes down to the question of the prophet Then you are like Socrates. You meet people and ask them I don't know, what is love? What is white and what is black? Great, but be careful. Don't be executed like Socrates. Which doll should I take to Noam Chomsky? I have two dolls, This is Hannah Arendt, not finished, no hair and I have yours too. One of them should go to Turkey because she had to go... Hannah Arendt should have gone And you should have gone to Turkey too. -If you want? I want to do what I think... Is there anything you want me to say to Noam? Or for your doll to order? No, just say hello to him. That's all. Shall I take your doll to him then? - It can. - Sometimes I think that we activists... We have to be selfish, you know? We think... Sometimes we forget to take care of ourselves. At first I thought yes of course Noam Chomsky because it is good and modest, but then I thought - screw it, So take mine away. I wanted to fill you with my betrayals and test all your flesh, but leave flawless And blow through the tiny opening above while all that is And breath and shape and pressure. I would be a breath too. And I would press the rear The root of your spine. The back of your teeth. Your little shoulders. The inside of your belly button. The slippery side of your throat. Your vocal cords. Your larynx. Your Adam's apple. Your cheeks. UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA, USA DOUGLASS BUILDING We started the trip by going to Japan where I was taught Kabuki, Bunraku, you know, learning... This is an Awaji doll, This is Nadya doll from Pussy Riot, and she wanted her doll I'll put it there. A little over... How would you define a monster? Germans have been around for a while They had never faced each other before and all others, only recently, more precisely since World War II. After the Second World War nuclear age, when human intelligence to essentially destroy almost everything. We have been living in its shadow for seventy years. At that time it was not known, that it was around the same time which geologists call the Anthropocene, and refers to the geological period in which on the nature of the environment is drastically affected by the actions of people. And, although it is very well known, extremely talented they rush forward and make things worse. I'm trying to take it back to mine If you go back in time, of course, some of the fossilized... ...a consequence of having knowledge, like a tool. Neanderthals, the closest to us, they made extremely complex tools. So complex that it requires technology The interesting part is that, although Neanderthals lived on a large that they all made the same tools. They haven't changed them for a long time. When Homo sapiens appeared, a number of creative activities are observed, something new happened. I do not know Have you ever been to Lascaux Caves? Yes, we did. We recorded it. I'm glad we think the same. I was lucky to be there so I saw the original CAVE LASCAUX II., FRANCE We stand geologically So, about a hundred million ago when everything was covered by the ocean, dissolved limestone of which Lascaux Do you have the keys? I have the keys, over there. - Do you like that fake cave? But I think it would, - What's that? Knowledges? Maybe they were more interested I think that what is successful is that both idea and meaning are conveyed to another, and there is a real artistic and human bond But he also touched the replica... Man, which means a lot. To copy an idea, meaning, Is it already open? Yes, just for us. You opened the door? No, they remained open for tours. Do you want me to close and then open them? Lascaux is managed by a society -which you must have heard of. Semitour is a semi-public trading company. It manages several cultural landmarks and those are my bosses. -Semitour. Yes, Lascaux II. is now and they are in charge of... ...management of other cultural places. They are, in fact, the owners of knowledge? Um. I guess we can, I guess As soon as you enter the cave, you immediately have that feeling that this is the work of an experienced artist, and not a beginner. Every dot and every stroke They want to say something, but we will never be able to decipher it. But the pictures want to convey something. So this... ...is thinking. This could be a representation. The cave could be the beginning of new knowledge. Or some form of knowledge. There are other forms Knowledge you can listen to. This is something you can see, maybe read or rediscover? What should I bring then? That I want to bring them the origin of knowledge, what should i take see, I'm afraid that technically and legally you must not take anything from this cave, but you can take... - The keys? You can take a visual memory with you. You can take a photo with your mind and evoke it to your students. That's interesting. I don't know if they would like it. What else do you offer? Here. You can take, if you want, this accreditation. That's for you. But what will you do without a name card? I don't want anything. This was my last day What do you mean? This is indeed That's the end of my career as a guide. -Not. - Well, you can take it. That. -Is that true? Today is the last day of my contract and I was fine in the last tour. Let's go back to modern technologies such as for example That. Do you think he is with us today? to consider artificial intelligence a form of ideology? Is it always on? No, not always. - When was it turned off? For recording, things like that. What about the night life, does he sleep? May we touch his hands? A bit strange. He's my boss. Never touch your boss's hand? What? So never, you know? Yeah, sometimes. But not with the boss. I shake hands, no. He is more friendly. That. - We manage it from here. I get it! It's like a control center here? Yes, the control center. Let's say. This has a gyro sensor. Put this on and you move your head. Greeting. I am Hannah Arendt. This microphone records your voice. It's me. Have a seat here. Talk. I am Hannah Arendt. Just now IM thinking. -Ishiguro-sensei, can you hear me? My question to you is: I know that... I still don't know what a man is. So, at least I know. I still miss her So I study humanoids. Do you think I am faithful representation of your thought process? In a sense, yes. You know, it is important to communicate with someone to think about something. Alright. We must use language to think about something. Conversation, communication with other people Do you think you are dangerous? Probably some people think that because I create new technology. New technologies are always available For good and bad purposes, right? If someone uses my technology that means I'm dangerous. Do you think we thought first? Before we invented economics I understand. Knowledge. I think it used to be economics. Knowledge is a fairly new concept. When... ...we invented computers, only then could we have knowledge. Knowledge came later. Very recent in historical terms. Maybe some 30, 40, 50 years ago. Before that, they only had data. Knowledge is the invention of study That's very interesting, And... So, knowledge is actually a reaction to the invention of artificial intelligence? -That. That's right. Because we believe it is so. Do you know what the most important invention is? in artificial intelligence? That is knowledge. How do you see the future of knowledge? - The future of knowledge? Knowledge affects humans and robots. Are robots the future? Both of them. I see no difference between humans and robots. It will be so in the near future. Maybe not in the near future, but in the future will the boundaries between robots and humans, I like to think of myself as a species because I speak for a robot Are you happy? Want to know if I have feelings? Yes, please. It's hard to say. If you ask me, For example, I'm happy when I can and I get frustrated when I don't get it I think it's important to have feelings Some people think that my feelings that they are not real, but if i think they are real, Do you agree with that? Maybe. My name is Neil Harbisson I made this antenna and which enables me beyond the visual spectrum. So, it is an organ that we it allows me to observe They can also connect to satellites I look at it as an artificial sensation which allows me to discover reality and to explore that reality - How do you think? That. Um. BANK In images and forms, and then in puzzles. Tell me more about it, about the concept of revealing reality There are many realities that surround us, but the human body cannot feel it because we have no sensors to perceive that surround us. Well now, with the help of technology, we can make these new organs and feel that reality that us but which we as humans could not understand. AND... This will allow us to discover the planet So what we know is coming so, the more senses we have, learn and acquire knowledge. I think we will witness more and more and adds new senses to his body We are a species that already and which changes the planet in order to survive, and I think that it would With the help of technology, we can change ourselves Say, having night vision, it would be much better for the planet. Or being able to regulate your temperature, and do not use heaters it would be much better for the planet. That's what we usually talk about Hannah Arendt is clearly Eurocentric, there is no doubt about it. She got an education in which you learn about the Greeks and Romans, on European history, and, although it deals with Africa indeed there is a certain kind of ignorance related to radically different traditions. She is knowledgeable about some things, I consider it a hallmark of many things. We can be extremely critical and to use an American phrase: &quot;get it in her head&quot; But what I find most interesting I think, although they are Eurocentric, Of course she traveled a lot, From Europe to the USA and back. I don't think she's ever been to Asia. And, more importantly, intellectually SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT LEARNING HERTIE, BERLIN She asks us: &quot;Do you know the difference between love and desire?&quot; And we were all 21 years old. We said we don't know... -Then she asked who knows the difference. Do you know the difference between love and desire? Yes, that's good. Then... -We do not know. Then she answers. - I'll tell you later. No it's not. I'll tell you later - well, you can act it out. When you want strawberries, you eat them. - You eat them! When you like strawberries, plant them. Someone like Arendt is like a giant, giant in a certain conversation. From Socrates to Arendt. But she does not hesitate for a moment about ideas being the most important and the question is how to get them again That is the question. Here is Arendt! Here is Aristotle. -That. Alright. This is a very long journey, and it involves -That. Very complicated, but she offers But there are stories on all of these and if you want to look at this globally, You can't just have this story and say: How to make it universal? You must say: and then I saw this history here. Then I went there and arrived here.&quot; It's a bit slower, and we can still come but not a shortcut. Explore globalization today, you can't if you're not paying attention to concepts with a little more. Ideas, not just behavior, not only markets, shops, -...concepts. So... This is the hardest part. It reminds a bit of kabuki or noh. Ideas which are not products at the same time Not when the French come to India so Indians start talking about brotherhood. Not. What Indians used to talk about long ago but did they see anyone from the West? They had ideas. They had a Sanskrit language, they had this and that. But do we know enough about it? MEMORIAL MUSEUM TO THE VICTIMS We need ways to manage, and self-management in a democratic way, of the nation state she witnessed She also saw that... ...when a nation-state goes to war, When the atomic bombs were dropped, then, for the first time, When there was a possibility humanity was born. Until then it was you, it was me, but because of the bomb we could have all disappeared, Humanity was born with a bomb, that was it She strongly opposed the nation state What is action, and here To act... ...means... ...to start something new in the world. To start something new in the world. - It's action. Action! That's really good, yes... -I'm back. All right, team. That's it! In here! I mean, I don't know if that's really the case, The result of traveling around the world and discussing the very act of thinking Do you want to see?