The Yellowstone prequel 1883 was full of did you know the finale had more connections Keep watching for the truth With Elsa seriously injured from the wound James and Margaret take her to They suspect the wound is infected, With Josef and his wife also sick and injured, &quot;This Is Not Your Heaven,&quot; they arrive at a Their call for a surgeon is answered by Major examining Elsa, the Major reveals that the that she's already gone septic. He tells Shea and and that what they thought was than a meeting place for ambitious He explains that Fort Laramie is &quot;She's done traveling. Laramie's as Best you could hope for is that she At this point, it seems the hope survival in the previous episode were When they realize that Elsa's James and Margaret clash over what Drifting in and out of consciousness, Elsa and her mother doesn't want to take that hope strength and spirit, and wants to be honest As it becomes more and more clear tension between James and Margaret arises. It's can't tell Elsa the truth, and that she may Margaret, meanwhile, is still holding on to the She even reassures Elsa that her fever has decision upsets James, he still agrees When 1883 first started, many fans of Yellowstone James Dutton wasn't traveling to Montana, but Audiences knew the train would be diverted at would eventually happen. We finally With the Fort offering little help for Elsa, and James and Shea decide they must make drastic give Elsa a proper resting place. The journey divert to the Bozeman Valley in Montana, where before departing for Oregon in the spring. and Josef and his wife unable to travel, it Unfortunately, the rest of the group is with or without Shea. The grizzled war veteran but they insist on continuing. Despite &quot;We are staying. The trail is easy enough to &quot;Suit yourself.&quot; Yellowstone fans now know why and it was due to a tragedy few As the rest of the wagon train departs for James Dutton and his family, preparing to Shea releases the cattle, and lets cowboys After saying goodbye to their companions, they and their children decide to stick with Shea. but Shea refuses them, saying they are too sick join them, declaring to Shea that they are She even offers up her own As days drag on, and Josef's snake bite continues that he might not make it to Montana. Thomas the snake-bitten leg, or he can die with it. Josef prepare to become battlefield surgeons. Getting Josef's leg in a brutal surgery by firelight, &quot;Sure glad I didn't get shot in the leg.&quot; Before the surgery on Josef, Shea and James sings Elsa a lullaby. James explains and that she paradoxically promised to sing he'd die after her. However, it's Shea who He finally opens up about his past, and how According to Shea, his wife back home had sent him a letter explaining that she prompting him to leave his unit and return home When he got there, it turned out to be a ruse saving him from death on the battlefield It's a touching story, one that gives new we saw him leave behind in the premiere episode. and the passion that drives him helps explain the respect he has for James and The love he sees in their eyes proves that he's The settlers' decision to proceed to Oregon cowboy, who warned them they would die if they best hope for survival was to spend the winter in but the remaining group had had enough of had gotten many of them killed crossing a river, The settlers also felt that at this point enough that they didn't need Shea as a doom them. Not long after splitting up, a group and killing everyone they found. It was and brutality of life on the plains, and They came to American shores with but in the end they wound up meeting their Though all hope seems lost for Elsa as James, her north towards Montana to die, they have an Americans. The leader of the tribe, an elder named and says he has a doctor in his own &quot;What do your doctors say?&quot; &quot;We have no doctors.&quot; &quot;I'll get you a doctor.&quot; After days spent injured on the trail, Elsa from two medicine women who take her to a Audiences may have believed this was the and she might finally be saved. It would have made since she had bonded to a Native American the tribe's prognosis wasn't any better than the the Lakota coat the tips of their arrows in cow by infection if not from the wound itself. Despite it seems that there was truly Having accepted his daughter's fate, James tells the mountains to die. He explains that wherever claim and build a ranch. He goes on to say he does hospitable to him. In response, Spotted Eagle &quot;The winters are cruel, but the summers Spotted Eagle says it is called Paradise Valley, life valley where the series is set. It's also Dan Jenkins, that tries to push the Dutton's off Spotted Eagle also gives James a word of his people will rise up to reclaim their land. continue hunting in the valley, which he kindness towards a small tribe we saw as he owes them a great debt for helping Elsa and Finally realizing that she won't Elsa feels betrayed that her father lied to her. choose the spot where she is to die. James grants distraught that her daughter has to face the truth from Shea Brennan that helps James come to terms consoles him with the fact that Elsa lived a full &quot;She has outlived us all.&quot; Elsa had a happy childhood and a loving joined a wagon train, saw the beauty of the She clashed with Comanche and battled bandits; she fell in love more than once, and was loved and death was now the last destination In &quot;This Is Not Your Heaven,&quot; fans of Yellowstone been looking for all season long. We learn Oregon to founding the Yellowstone Ranch. After we finally understand the spark that ignited In an early part of the episode, Elsa muses to death is being forgotten. James and Margaret vow where they bury her so they can visit her grave a spot by a tree near where the Dutton ranch the Dutton's ancestral claim to the land. We've let the land go, and now we see that the same It seems the Dutton's claim to the Yellowstone of Elsa Dutton. While her descendant it remains to be seen if Spotted Eagle's prophecy Once Elsa passes away in her father's arms, the story flashes forward one year. While we do we do get updates on the surviving cast. Josef is removes his wedding band in memory of his wife. and we're left to believe that he is building his his group, but he has finally found the home We then cut to Willamette Valley, Oregon and see near a river. Noemi's two children rush to because earlier we learned that her children and hadn't spoken to her since. Finally in Oregon, Finally, we see Shea on a beach, looking out admiring the beauty of the Pacific and seeing nothing left to hang on to, Shea ends Whether heartwarming or devastating, the ending When the series began, audiences may have much like Yellowstone -- a high octane drama seemed like the perfect place for the dreamed of rough-riding cowboys chasing down When it premiered, viewers were instead treated more intimate look at life on the frontier than a central role, it became clear right away that her journey north from Texas. An unexpectedly provided background to Yellowstone while telling Perhaps the most surprising thing about and discovery that many may have thought. tale of the hopelessness and sorrow felt by so Though there are moments of joy to as so many of the series' characters meet left with illustrates how every element of early Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Looper videos about Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit