- This is a video about the that dates back 2000 years. Some of the brightest have tried to crack it, In the year 2000 the Italian mathematician, listed it among four of the at the time. Solving this problem could be as simple as finding a single number. So mathematicians have used computers and checked numbers up to but so far they've come up empty handed. Why do you think this problem of so many mathematicians? - It's old, it's simple, it's beautiful. - What else could you want? So the problem is this. Do any odd perfect numbers exist? So what is a perfect number? Well take the number six for example. You can divide it by 1, 2, because that's the number itself, and now we're left with If you add them all up, you which is the number itself. So numbers like this are called perfect. You can also try this with 10 has the proper divisors If you add those up, you only get eight. So 10 is not a perfect number. Now you can repeat this and what you find is that or undershoot between 1 and a 100, only 6 and 28 are perfect numbers. Go up to 10,000 and you find the next two These were the only perfect numbers known by the ancient Greeks, and they would be the only known ones for over a thousand years. If only we could find a pattern then we could use that So what do these numbers have in common? Well, one thing to notice is that each next perfect than the number that came before it. Another thing they share is between 6 and 8, which also But here's where things get really weird. You can write 6 as the and 28 as the sum of one, plus 2, plus 3, plus 4 plus 5 plus 6 plus 7, and so on for the others as well, of consecutive numbers and you can think of as adding a new layer. And so these create a triangle, which is why these numbers Also, every number of consecutive odd cubes. So 28 is 1 cubed plus 3 cubed. 496 is equal to 1 cubed plus 3 cubed And 8,128 is equal to 1 cubed plus 3 cubed plus 9 cubed all the way up to 15 cubed. But here's the one that If you write these numbers in binary, six becomes 110, and 28 becomes 11100. 496 becomes 111110000. And 8,128, you guessed it. It is also a string of ones So if you write them out, they are all just What now around 300 BC Euclid was actually when he discovered the pattern that makes these perfect numbers. Take the number one and double it, you get two now, keep doubling it. You get 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, and so on. Now starting from one, So 1 plus 2 equals 3. If that adds up to a by the last number in the So two times three equals Now let's keep doing this. Add 1 plus 2 plus 4, and you get 7, which is again prime. So multiply it by the last The next perfect number. Next, add 1 plus 2 plus but 15 isn't prime, so we this is prime. So you multiply it by 16 and you get 496. The third perfect number. Now you can keep doing this to find bigger and bigger perfect numbers, and using this we can So 6 equals 1 plus 2 and 28 equals 1 plus 2 and 496 equals 1 plus 2 plus 4 plus 8 plus 16 times 2 to the power of 4 where the first term is prime. But there's a more convenient Take any sum of consecutive powers of 2. So 2 to the power of zero which is 1 plus 2 to the 1 plus 2 to the 2, all the way up to 2 to the n minus 1. And now because you don't that is equal to, but it So let's call that T. Now multiply this whole equation by two. So you get 2 to the 1 plus 2 to the 2, all the way up to 2 to the If you now subtract the first almost all the terms will cancel out and you're left with T So you can replace this whole series with one less than the next power of 2. So six becomes 2 squared 28 becomes 2 cubed and 496 becomes 2 to the 5 Do you see the pattern? This number is always one more than this. So if we call this P, then Euclid formula that gives a perfect number times 2 to the P minus 1 Now, because you're multiplying which is even, this will Euclid had found a way to but he didn't prove that So there could be other including potentially ones that are odd. 400 years later, the Greek philosopher nicomchaus published Introdutio Arithmetica, the for the next thousand years. In it, he stated five conjectures to be true, but did not bother His conjectures were one, the nth perfect number has n digits. Two, all perfect numbers are even. Three, all perfect numbers Four, Euclid algorithm produces And five, there are infinitely For the next thousand years no one could prove or disprove and they were considered facts. But in the 13th century, Egyptian mathematician Ibn Fallus published a list with 10 perfect numbers and their values of P. Three of these perfect numbers turned out not to be perfect at all. But the remaining ones are. The fifth perfect number which disproves Nicomachus's And the next thing to notice and sixth perfect number end in a 6. So that disproves that all perfect numbers Two conjectures were proven false. But what about the other three? Two centuries later, the problem where they rediscovered the fifth, sixth, and seventh perfect numbers. So far every perfect And the best way to find new of P that make 2 to the P minus 1 prime. So French polymath Marin numbers of this form. In 1644, he published his in a book including a list of 11 values of P for which he claimed Numbers for which this is true are now called Mersenne Primes. Of his list the first seven exponents of P do result in primes and they correspond to the But for some of the larger numbers like 2 to the 67 minus to not even checking &quot;To tell if a given number or not all time would not Mersenne discussed the with other luminaries of the time, including Pierre de In 1638, Descartes wrote to that there are no even perfect numbers except those of Euclid. He also believed that if an it must have a special form. It must be the product of a prime and the square of a different number. If he was right, these the biggest breakthroughs 2000 years earlier. But Descartes couldn't prove Instead, he wrote &quot;As for real odd perfect numbers. But whatever method you to look for these.&quot; Around a hundred years later the Prussian mathematician met a 20-year-old math prodigy. The two stayed in touch and in 1729, Goldbach to the work of Fermat. At first, he seemed indifferent, but after a little more he became passionate about number theory and he spent the next 40 years working on different problems in the field among them was the problem This Prodigy's name was Leonhard Euler. Euler picked up where but with more success. In doing so, he made three First in 1732, he discovered the eighth perfect by verifying that 2 to Just as Mersenne had predicted. For his other two breakthroughs, the sigma function. All this function does is of a number, including the So take any number, say and you get 12, which is twice And this will be true The Sigma function of a perfect number will always give twice the number itself because the sigma function as one of its divisors. Now this may seem like a small change, but it ends up being extremely powerful. So let's look at a few examples. Take a prime number like seven. Now, because it's prime, you can't rearrange it into a rectangle, therefore the only divisors So Sigma seven is 1 plus Now, to keep things easier to follow, we'll just stick to the numbers. But what if instead of Well, again, the sum of the It's just 1 plus 7 plus Now let's use it on a The sum of its divisors plus 10 plus 20, which equals 42. But you can also write this as 1 plus 2 plus 4 times 1 plus 5. And this is what really makes the sigma function so powerful. If you have a number that that don't share factors with each other, then you can split up the sigma function into the sigma functions that make it up. So sigma of 2 squared times sigma 5 is equal to sigma 20. And since any number can of prime powers, you can of any composite number of its prime powers. With his new function in hand, Euler achieved his second breakthrough and did what Descartes couldn't. He proved that every even This Euclid-Euler theorem and proved Nicomachus's fourth conjecture. Math historian William Dunham called it the greatest mathematical But Euler wasn't finished yet. He also wanted to solve the So for his third breakthrough, he set out to prove Descartes other statement that every odd perfect number Because if an odd perfect you know two things first n is odd. And second sigma of n equals 2n. Now any number n, you of different prime numbers and each prime can be to some power. So let's take that and put So you get sigma of n equals to their powers, which equals 2n. But since all of these factors are primes, you can actually split up the of the individual prime powers. Now one thing to notice is that if you have a prime for example seven to the power of 1, then the sigma function will be even because 1 plus 7 equals 8, you'll always get an even number because odd plus odd is even if the prime number is instead raised to an even power like seven squared, then the sigma function Sigma of 7 squared equals which equals 57. Because odd plus odd plus odd equals odd. So if you have the sigma to an odd power, it will If instead it's raised to an even power, you get an odd number. And this is where Euler's because here on the right where n is an odd perfect Well, what that means is that on the left side there because if there were two even numbers, you could factor out four. But that means you should also be able to factor out four on the because n is odd and there's So only one of these sigmas which means that there that is to an odd power and all the others must just as Descartes had predicted. Now, Euler refined the form a bit more and showed that an odd this condition, but even whether they existed or not. He wrote &quot;Whether there is a most difficult question.&quot; For the next 150 years very little progress was made and no new perfect English mathematician Peter Barlow wrote that Euler eighth perfect that ever will be discovered for as they are merely it is not likely that any to find one beyond it.&quot; But Barlow was wrong. Mathematicians kept pursuing and most started with Mersenne's The next on his list So far, Mersenne had He had included Euler's while avoiding others like 29 that turned out not to but 230 years after Edouard Lucas proved that 2 to although he was unable 27 years later, Frank to the American mathematical he walked to one side of the blackboard and wrote down 2 to the 67 minus 1 equals 147,573,952,589,676,412,927. He then walked to the other and multiplied 193,707,721 times 761,838,257,287 giving the same answer. He sat down without saying a word and the audience erupted in applause. He later admitted it took him three years working on Sundays to solve this. A modern computer could solve From 500 BC until 1952 people had discovered and therefore only 12 perfect numbers. The main difficulty was checking whether large Mersenne numbers But in 1952, American mathematician a computer program to perform this task and he ran it on the fastest Within 10 months, he found and so corresponding perfect numbers. And over the next 50 years, new Mersenne primes were all using computers. The largest Mersenne was 2 to the power of 2,281 minus 1, which is 687 digits long. By the end of 1994, the was 2 to the power of 859,433 minus 1, which is 258,716 digits long. Since these numbers were the task of finding more and more difficult So in 1996, computer scientist George Woltman launched the Great Internet Mersenne GIMPS distributes the allowing anyone to volunteer to help search for Mersenne primes. The project has been having discovered 17 new Mersenne primes, 15 of which were the largest And the best part, if a new Mersenne prime, you'll be listed as its discoverer, adding yourself to a list that includes some of the best There's even a $250,000 prize for the first billion-digit prime. In 2017 Church Deacon John Pace discovered the 50th Mersenne Prime by using GIMPS. The number 2 to the 77,232,917 minus 1 is more than 23 million digits long, and it was also the largest To celebrate this achievement the Japanese publishing house, Nanairosha published this book, &quot;The Largest Prime number of 2017.&quot; And all it is is that number spread It's wild. The size of this font is so tiny. The book quickly rose to the and sold out in four days. A year later, the 51st It's 2 to the 82,589,933 minus 1, and this number has But there's something I like there is knowledge in here, but it's not the kind of knowledge that anyone's ever gonna But in some way it's nice that there's this physical artifact that like has the number, if ever we lost all the prime numbers. You know, someone could find this book be like, here's the big one. As of today, this is still And since numbers of this the largest Mersenne Prime is almost always the largest known prime. Computers have been incredibly successful at finding new Mersenne primes and their corresponding perfect numbers, but we've still only found 51 so far. So you might suspect that there are only a finite number of them, which would mean that would be false, that there aren't infinitely but that might not be the case. The Lenstra and Pomerance how many Mersenne primes should appear based on how large P is. Now this is the actual data the conjecture performs remarkably well. But more importantly, it predicts that there are infinitely and so infinitely many The Mersenne primes are that they take a lot of time But a conjecture is not a proof. And up until this day, this problem shares the title of oldest with the other open problem. Do any odd perfect numbers exist? The easiest way to solve this problem is by finding an example. So maybe we could just and see if one of them is perfect. That's exactly what By using a smart algorithm they were able to show that does exist, it must be larger than 10 to the power of 300. 21 years later, Pascal raised that lower bound to 10 to the 1,500 with recent progress to the 2,200. With numbers that large, it's unlikely that a computer So we'll need to get smart. What would a proof look like? Like how could we actually prove this? - I think the main idea to approach this problem more and more conditions odd perfect numbers have to of conditions where it has that we know and maybe thousands of non distinct prime factors and has to be bigger than 10 to the 3000. And it has to do all and we hope that eventually that can strain the numbers - Since Euler, mathematicians conditions to this web. - But so far it hasn't worked. - But there might be another path. When Descartes was looking he came across 198,585,576,189, which you can factor as times 11 squared times Put this into Euler sigma function and you find it is equal to In other words, it is perfect. That is if 22021 were prime, but it's not because it is equal to And filling that in shows Numbers like this that are very close to being odd perfect Spoofs are a larger group of numbers. So odd perfect numbers share and then a few extra ones. And the goal is to find that ultimately prevent them For example, one condition of odd perfect numbers is that So if you find that spoofs then this would prove that odd perfect numbers can't exist. In 2022 Pace Nielsen and a team at BYU found 21 spoof numbers and while they discovered they didn't find any that So how large would an odd - They don't exist. - You don't think odd - No, they don't exist. I wish they did. That'd be really cool if if there was just this one gigantic odd, perfect They don't exist. No. - How are you convinced - There is something where it's not a proof. So if we had a proof, we'd be done. It's just an argument from, okay, we think primes occur And you put that those pieces and you think, okay, on average how many numbers should be perfect. - This argument, which was that between 10 to the 2,200 and infinity, there are no more than 10 to the negative 540 perfect numbers of the form N equals pm squared - With odd perfect numbers the heuristic says we We've searched high we have enough evidence they - My understanding is It also predicts that there are no large So... That's true. So there's a downside. Yeah, there's a downside because it says there shouldn't be large, even perfect numbers and to be infinitely many. And so, okay, so... why do I believe the and not this case? You're right. Am I being hypocritical about that? There are other aspects you can add on to the heuristic and make it stronger. Let me put it that way. But you're right, it's not a proof. - For now this is still the Euler was right when he any odd perfect numbers is So are there any - I can say no. - Now, many people may think that if there are no then there's no point studying it. Why should anyone care about But I think that's the wrong approach. For more than 2000 years, number theory had no It was just mathematicians and solving problems they one result after another and building a foundation But then in the 20th century, we realized that we could take this foundation and base our cryptography on it. This is what protects to government secrets. - Whenever you have a group of people put their something good's gonna come out of it. If it's only, if it's this doesn't work. Okay, well, as Edison of not making a light bulb. Eventually I got a good way to do it. It's the same with math. You have a problem and you throw your mind And you come up with new ideas and eventually something - Einstein's general relativity was built on non-Euclidean geometries, as intellectual curiosities of how they would one day change the way we understand the universe. How many people do you think of perfect numbers right now? - I'd guess around 10 people currently have papers in the area, 10 to 15. If you're a high schooler and you think, I want a this one's a great problem to think about. And you can make progress. Yeah, don't be scared. Hundreds of people have for thousands of years. What can I do? You can do something. - Why should you do math if you don't know that it will lead anywhere? Well, because doing the to know for sure. You can't tell in advance Like this problem might We might solve it and it might or it could turn out to The only way to know for sure is to try In today's world, it often between following your curiosity you can apply. But the truth is it's Fortunately, there's one learning to do just that. And it's this video sponsor, Brilliant. Brilliant will make you a better thinker and problem solver by and everything from math and data science to You name it, Brilliant has to explore so you can wherever it leads you, and you won't just learn key concepts. You'll actually apply that knowledge to real world situations, giving you real hands-on intuition. With Brilliant you can learn by trying things out for yourself. That's what makes learning with And along the way, you can set and level up with guided learning paths that let you go deep into specific topics. I think that learning of the best gifts you can give yourself. And Brilliant is the perfect way to do it with bite-sized lessons that you can do right from your phone. So even if you only have a few minutes, you can feed your curiosity, and build new skills. To try everything Brilliant for a full 30 days, visit scan this QR code or click the link in the description and the first 200 of you will get 20% off Brilliant's annual premium subscription. So I wanna thank Brilliant and I want to thank you for watching.