I'm Jim Browning. I'm and I hack into scammers' CCTV, and I've managed to close down hundreds of scam call centers. This is how crime works. What I do is disrupt The ring leader's exposed, and those people have an awful Why the silhouette? Well, You can imagine the type of things that they may decide to do to stop me. Up until recently, had a normal day job, and sometimes I would work at home, and I would constantly that I think most people get, and you instantly know it's a scam. But I was getting those so often that it was interrupting my normal work. I thought, I am an engineer. I know about computers, Maybe I can do something about this, or at least I want to find out what it is they're really after and in the hope that I can stop the calls. I encountered Faremart They were operating a pop-up scam. I was browsing the internet. Suddenly this message pops up saying I've got a virus and that locked my keyboard mouse. And from experience, I but I deliberately called the number. They told me that they and they needed access to my computer. But I have this little trick where, if someone connects to my computer, I can reverse that connection, and that enables me to see their computer. And I was able to find out quite a lot of data and video and audio. Of course, the people on the to persuade you that you've They will want you to, although they may not say the words &quot;remote access to your computer,&quot; they will deliberately misdiagnose it. And to fix that problem, even though there's no problem, you will have to pay them. And it varies anywhere between up to a few thousand pounds. They will talk reasonably deliberately, but it's all just a script. Most people who are victims of that scam think that it's some friendly when in fact there was It's not just done once; they're scammed multiple times after that. The setup can be very tiny. You can run a scam call You don't need particularly to run a scam, and I think And what I typically find is they will run the oldest of old computers, just because they're cheap. The average scam call center Faremart Travels, they set They were running out of two buildings in a suburb of New Delhi. In those days, the front offices were all running legitimate work, but in literally the offices they ran a scam operation. In fact, they used the that they did for their legitimate work, but in the background, they So they had almost a perfect setup, so that if the police they could always point the They actually recorded their phone calls, and I was able to download over 70,000 scam phone calls from other operators in that room. It did help that I could see So I could see the messages who actually operated the calls right back to the CEO of the company. So, if you can think about any they had exactly that structure. The agents are incentivized and because of that, they get a bonus at the end of the month. So they had supervisors who would tot up every and if you can make more for example, you will make more money. I have seen in other operations that if you don't make your targets, typically you're out of It was an operation that ran 24/7. They would have different shifts. So they would target Australia It would move to Europe in And then at nighttime it would be the USA. There was another person who was the accountant for the company. They knew which channel it came from, so what sort of scam operation which country it involved, which payment gateway it involved. You would have all the going into huge spreadsheets, and of course then that So, they had everything you would expect in a real office building. They had a HR department, They would actually listen to and feed back to the agents how they could run the scam better. I was able to see exactly because there was a CCTV It was the only one with audio, and he would spend a looking after his legitimate business, the travel-agency business, but an awful long part making sure that the next type of scam was going to happen. But I did hear him and how he would set that up. Things like how they would Occasionally I will encounter and if they're asking normally it will be to a bank And the reason for that is for money to go out of a victim account into a local bank account, a But of course it hasn't got So there has to be a network of people who will take that initial transfer and move it between a number of countries. An average scam will have at least one money mule in the UK, one money mule at least other than India, typically Thailand. And between them, they will move money I have seen Telegram and Skype groups specifically set up to allow money transfers to happen. So, I know with Faremart technologies, I was able to see exactly when it came between the victims and right through to the company. So, I could see as each there was an individual which went to a company And Amit Chauhan is the CEO of, or was the CEO of, Adhrit Technologies. So I got a direct payment link between the victims and his company, and I could tell that he was making at least tens of thousands but it was closer to $100,000 a month. What they would get is average about $10,000 to $12,000 just from scams each day. But I've seen call centers which are upwards of 200 employees, and they can make more I have encountered a victim in the UK who had already lost PS100,000 to scammers. People write to me as well to say that they have lost a lot And again, there's once the money has already been stolen. Seeking out victims, criminals absolutely use social media. I'm on a Facebook group where scammers sell And there's very little They will also sell things Those are sold openly on Facebook. I get to hear a lot of the and I've heard everything from teenagers right through to people well in their 90s falling for these. The types of scam though that I look at are more likely to affect older people. Faremart Travels were from the average scam because they pay a third party to put adverts onto websites, and the advert itself is called a malvert, a malicious advert. It goes full screen, has a bit of very loud audio saying, &quot;Your computer has a virus,&quot; but most importantly, it The one way to tell whether If you see a phone number on your screen, 100% of the time, that Your antivirus will not ask They wait for victims to come to them. Then they would simply That's how they seek out victims. The kind of victim they're after is somebody who's not computer literate. I have to lull them into so I have to appear convincing. I can't be somebody who is type stuff in really quickly, because they'll instantly get suspicious. So, whenever I engage with I know in advance what my name, address, credit card, and everything else will be. I also have a fake bank page, which I will deliberately to make it look as if All I need is a little bit of knowledge about the system they use for me to hear other phone calls. I not only can hear the calls, I can see the phone And I can see a phone call has lasted more than, say, five minutes, it's very likely that that And what I do is typically call the person when they've hung up and say, &quot;By the way, did you know that you were You were not speaking with Amazon.&quot; And that is quite often a surprise to the people who've been because they can be incredibly persuasive. They use terminology all the time. There's never a &quot;victim,&quot; So, you're a customer, of course, and that's the term I kind of hate because not one person that I encounter is a real customer in any shape or form. Yes, &quot;process.&quot; And whenever you go for an you have to use the or a &quot;banking process&quot; But that is just shorthand or the bank scam or whatever. Whenever they build a everyone will sound just or their grandfather, because that way they Obviously, when I can see one computer, just like the phone system, I can potentially also see A good example is Faremart. I can see the guy actually and he logged in with a username of admin and an eight-character password. It enabled me then to log in and just use the computer or the CCTV. The scam room itself pointing all four directions. It was difficult to know Obviously they give fake names, but knowing that they will the very easy thing to do is to change my desktop like purple or green or something, and then as the scammer connects to it, look on the CCTV and see who has got the And then I can pinpoint I'm speaking to that particular That's the one I'm going to focus on.&quot; So, I'll be kind of picking which may be on their computers, again, just to help identify who they are. Sometimes some of the computers or spreadsheets with real names on it. So I'll be kind of looking for that. I know this is a little bit vague, but, equally, I don't want exactly all of my tricks, but there are definitely to figure out exactly what they're doing. I was in the fortunate position that not only could I see live CCTV, but they actually had recordings of historic events. And when I did rewind the footage, I could see them position certain cameras and actually turn them around. I was able to kind of roughly but I still couldn't figure it out. So, I have a colleague who does something very similar to me. He's called Karl Rock, and he's in India. He's got a drone, and I asked him, &quot;Would you be able to to figure out where He flew the drone over the and then out to the back When it comes to reporting crime, it's actually very difficult in India. The best way to get any action is to go directly to the local police where that call center is nearest. It is not enough to say, are pretending to be a bank or Amazon.&quot; What I have to do is present a victim to the local police to say this person has had money stolen, and it comes from that building, and here are the people involved. And that makes it very, very difficult. Obviously, I try to this scam is operating on your doorstep, but quite often that's ignored. And it's kind of a tolerated scam. If you seem to be stealing money from rich Westerners, for an example, that may be less of a than maybe other types of crime. Now, in the case of Faremart, I was working with a documentary team. The BBC were involved. The police became interested only because of that involvement. Then the police raided those buildings. So, they arrested Amit Chauhan. They dismissed the case because there wasn't enough evidence. I would love to see tougher laws when it comes to call centers. I think there should be laws to say if you're running a call center, you have to give the the details of who you are, where you are, your real name, and It would be easier, I think, to prosecute some of And maybe that's the way to I actually ask scammers, The answers that I usually get, there will be people who say, &quot;The only way that I can make And undoubtedly that's the case. But everybody's different. There are not enough And don't forget, these people in general, they speak English, so They come from the equivalent of middle-class backgrounds. Their education levels, I've seen the CVs sitting They generally know what So, if there was an opportunity some will tell me that they And some of them do I'm only going to do I personally think the primary reason is, the reason why so many I have had scammers who have said, &quot;Well, I do this as kind of revenge for colonial corruption.&quot; I do speak to some scammers and some of them have and exposed their own and that's admirable. India is more than likely where your robocall is going to come from, which is a really sad reflection on India, because India is a fantastic country. But it now means that people when they hear an Indian are just that more wary, Other than India, I have ones in Ukraine and Tunisia. The Tunisian call center targeted including France. There's a few different ways that scammers will And I guess the primary one, someone pretending to be your bank or a large company like Amazon. Unfortunately, if you've got a landline, that is a typical thing that And one of the biggest ones, If you've started a they'd want to get at your money, and they will target you The first one is wanting and therefore wanting They will get you to make a transfer or they'll blacken your screen and they'll make the transfer. The other one is they don't really need or want access to your computer, but they will try to convince and move money by socially engineering you to send money or withdraw and people unbelievably still do this, and send it to another address. And the third one is they will persuade you to And there's different and read out the gift card number. And if you do that, that's equivalent to directly putting it into And the most obvious way these days of getting money cleanly for scammers is to use cryptocurrency. There's other sorts of scams. You may have seen SMS messages saying that there's a parcel being delivered or a different sort of SMS message targeting someone in your family. Recently I've come across a group who were operating out of London, and they were pretending of someone who had lost their phone. So they would send a message saying, &quot;Hi, Mom, I've lost my Can you contact me on this? I need to get some money quickly.&quot; It's not easy having multiple identities, and I have my own family like everybody else. Doing this in the evening times did take up an awful lot of time. So, I do work very odd hours, and I have to keep the So I'm on the night shift just So it can be difficult. I have worked in IT for although these days I could I haven't got the formal qualifications. Because I have dug into scams I probably know scams I'm still learning. I still want to understand better some of the systems that But I would like to I am working on projects that will help victims using AI, before scammers start So, I have a YouTube page, the channel name is Jim Browning, which is dedicated to combating scammers.