If you were a kid some time before, say, 2010, there was a phrase your parents probably learned to be quite irritated by: batteries not included. Our gadgets and gizmos used to be quite reliant on the good ol' AA battery or, if designers wanted to be annoying, the AAA battery. Look, there's not a huge difference in size between so whenever some engineer out there decides that a thing will go with just as expensive but shorter-lived AAAs instead, I get a wee bit angry. I mean, just look at this remote control. It could totally fit AAs in there, wait is that a Duracell PowerCheck? Indeed it is! If you were buying batteries in the late '90s, you probably remember these. The idea was that rather than need to use some sort of you could build that tester into the battery. And that's what Duracell did - as well as some of their competitors. As a matter of fact this version of the idea came from Kodak, and there's a whole fascinating story (long story short, James R. Burroughs had a similar but both patents got approved which caused some kerfuffles - Here, I just want to focus on how the Duracell version worked, But also much much simpler than you might have imagined. If you want to test a battery like this, you're going to want to measure its voltage. Like most battery chemistries, ordinary alkaline manganese dioxide When fresh each cell has a voltage around 1.5, maybe 1.6 volts (and the standard AA, AAA, C, and D batteries are composed of just a single cell, like an amoeba!). But that voltage steadily diminishes as the battery is used up. When you're halfway through it'll be down to around 1.2 volts So, a quick check of a battery can be done with a multimeter like this one. If I use it and probe across this battery here, it's reading 1.57 volts so this is either brand new or hardly used. This one, though, it's only reading 1.06 so it's pretty dead. This test isn't perfect because we're not checking the batteries under a load, Trouble is, you need a multimeter to do this as well as the So lots of inexpensive battery testers were made But what if you could build a voltmeter into the battery itself? Well, that's ultimately what Duracell did with these batteries, First, you'll notice that the battery says to test it That probably means the tester's functionality But before I get ahead of myself, let me just show you how these were used. It says "press dots to test" and, well, that's all you had to do. Except... if you remember these you'll know that you had to press quite hard. Dig your nails in there a little bit. Once you did it though, the little bar If the whole bar turned yellow, the battery was full. And less and less of it would turn yellow as the battery wore down. Now, with a use by date of March 2003 it probably won't surprise you I got the tester to turn yellow with a little Because heat is what turns that little bar yellow. Behind that little window is a small amount of thermochromic material, It's the same sort of stuff that goes in a mood ring The specific chemical in here is simpler - it merely indicates it's above a certain temperature threshold, but it's the same general idea. What makes it heat up, though? Well you may have noticed that the testing window is perfectly in-line The tester is built into the battery's label, which I've removed from this one. In case you've never seen an unwrapped alkaline battery before, The positive terminal is actually part of the battery's shell, A small insulator separates the negative tab from the shell. And if we compare with one of the still-wrapped batteries, we'll see that one of the testing dots rests on the negative terminal (which, remember is the positive terminal of the battery). Looking now at the backside of the label, The pads on the negative side are very difficult to see, but the positive contact patch is quite obviously a metal foil of some sort. And the contact patch sits behind a round hole That insulating layer keeps the pad from touching the battery shell If you exert enough force on both dots for their respective contact patches To what, you ask? A tiny little heater. That heater is in contact with the thermochromic material, when you press in those dots and complete the circuit, But it's not quite that simple. While you could just use a very thin wire heating element, If the battery had enough oomph But you wouldn't necessarily know how much oomph it had left. So instead, the heater has a varying cross-sectional area If I remove that paper insulator, we can actually see the heater. Kind of, anyway. I'm not sure exactly what it's made of - Regardless, it is visible and you'll notice that it has a slight taper, That means its resistance actually varies across its length, which also means the voltage drop across each part of this heater when it's operating is different. If the battery is strong enough, its voltage will be sufficient to heat the entire thing, But if the battery is getting weak and voltage begins to fall, then only the skinny, high-resistance part of the heater will get warm. Most of the voltage drop occurs in that part of the heater, and the battery doesn't have any more volts for the rest of it, And luckily I can show you this with a DC power supply. When I provide this with just 1 volt, To clarify, the indicator always turns yellow at the same temperature, But low voltages (caused by a weak battery) can only get the skinny part of the heater warm enough to actually change the indicator's color. But when I crank the voltage up, And of course the bar is aligned with the zero to 100% scale It's a very elegant solution using tech so simple Oh, and remember that beige insulator? Turns out it's not just electrically insulating, it's also thermally insulating. That slot cut into it is there to maintain an air gap The battery shell is made of thermally-conductive material and it's rather massive, it would suck all the heat right out of it and it would never turn the indicator yellow. Keeping it away from the battery is necessary for the indicator to function, so the same piece of what's essentially just paper is functioning as Neat. You might have realized that since the that means each time you test it you're using up a little bit of its capacity. And this is true - though it also means the test is slightly It's not like the actual scale here is all that These 25 year old batteries test at about 1.3 volts on the multimeter, But their ability to produce any current flow is completely shot. If I manage to activate the tester while also probing the battery, you'll see that the voltage plummets So, sure enough, these batteries are dead Yet the multimeter doesn't. So then... why did it go away? Duracell PowerCheck was a pretty short blip on the landscape Well, the patent disputes and licensing shenanigans are not that many people were actually testing their batteries on a regular basis! Yes, we all know about the loose batteries in the junk drawer but aside from random situations like that, I think it's fair to say most people used and continue to they simply stay new in the package until they and then they stay in that thing until they and another set of fresh batteries replaces them. I'd argue it's pretty uncommon to take partially-used batteries out of a thing I'm not saying I think that never happens - I myself have a few tools which need batteries but I don't keep batteries in them since I rarely use those tools. But I do think in the grand scheme, Certainly infrequent enough to question whether it actually makes sense to spend the money putting a battery tester on every single battery. These are commodity items, and while there surely is some and so if you need a pack of batteries and you use them like I do, (and makes me less likely to buy it). And as I already said, It was actually quite frustrating to jam those And if I were the type of person who kept partially-used batteries in random places, Or, ya know, just try putting them in whatever needs batteries That was always an option. I think that in hindsight, this is a pretty clear case of a really clever, A frustration that the inventors thought Duracell used to include inexpensive battery testers in the packages of their batteries, and they worked very similarly to the PowerCheck feature here. Some people found them hard to use, and that could be seen as a legitimate problem to solve. Which Duracell did by incorporating those testers into the battery! But I don't think anyone asked how Because if they had, I'm not sure this would have ever happened. Of course these days, most of our devices which need batteries so we're just not buying or using disposable batteries as much as we used to. Which I think is unequivocally a good thing! It's kinda nuts how normal it used to be to I had a Game Boy and that one device And then there was the Walkman, my camera, and who knows how many other toys I had Thank goodness we're past that. Mostly. Uh, but even for the devices on sale today which need AA batteries? They often tell you how much charge is left so Alright, well I think we're done. I want to extend a thank you to Luis Solano for suggesting this video topic. It's been on the docket for a while but, uh, so it took me a while to get my hands on them. And I have a second thank you for Ernie Smith - this is at least the second time my research began I would have gone more deeply here were it not for the but production issues on a different topic moved it up to now, so if you're interested in those patent details and some of the backstory, be sure to check out the link in the description. Normally I try to put something clever here but I think I'm all out of juice. exhaustedly smooth jazz like most battery chemistries, ordinary alkaline magaz-- magazine? Are you subscribed to Alkaline Magazine? Lots of inexpensive battery testers were made which are really just analog voltmeters with a scale that ride-- DANG IT Kind of. I'm not exactly... oh I don't like that delivery ...but there ability to produce any curr...mmmmnaAAGH ...plummets to not even half a volt as the plater... mehah huhhh It was actually kind of frustrating to And if I were the type of person who kept part- yep, I can't say &quot;light up&quot; I'll get pedanted for that. If I were the type of person who kept randomly used partially used aaaaahggghhh! So apparently these were made for much longer in some markets and also hung around for a while here in the US on some of the high-end batteries Duracell sold. TBH I had no idea but mostly because (or might splurge for Rayovac if it's on-sale). Does this count as an end-captions gag? You decide!