From the largest offshore wind farm the world has threatens the political stability in the Black This video is sponsored by We start off with Over in the rocky coasts of Norway lies Considered as the convergence of the North Sea of the busiest maritime routes in the country. of the most dangerous waters along the coast with has been documented by historians that even the land instead of sailing through these waters. regarded as a treacherous area for even most ships today usually wait for days until the To make traversing this area safer, the Norwegian what would become the world's first full-size bypass the dangerous Stadhavet Sea and cut travel times by up to two hours. The tunnel and 36 meters high. It will be able to accommodate the Stad Ship Tunnel will be the first of its full-size oil tankers and cruise ships. the Norwegian government with a budget of more Ship Tunnel is expected to begin some time in Number 9: Frankfurt International Frankfurt International Airport is by far airport serving as much as 70 million passengers airport in the country, Frankfurt International is 2 million tons of shipments just last year alone. transport hub, and the ever-growing number expansion project was initiated back in 2005 to the airport's passenger and cargo capacity. the airport's oldest terminal that extended the total of seven new wide-body aircraft stands. capacity by more than six million passengers Another project that drastically changed the 2.8-kilometer runway in 2011 that ran from east to were now possible which significantly increased Finally in 2015, construction on a brand new runways began. The area used to be the site of a the base closed down in 2005. The new terminal by as much as 19 million passengers annually Because of delays brought by the COVID-19 expected to open some time in 2026. Situated at the crossroads between Europe and at one of the most strategic locations in the of the critical Bosphorus Strait that connects the the world's oceans. This natural waterway compared to the Panama and Suez canals combined. borders, Turkey actually doesn't benefit from international treaty that Turkey signed back regulates its use. The agreement ensured Turkey's access of warships in the strait, and it also As one of the world's busiest shipping routes, wherein ships usually have to wait days shipping traffic, the Turkish government is artificial waterway that would cut right effectively turning it into an island. and is estimated to cost the Turkish government 2021 and is expected to take seven years to bypass the Bosphorus, and some experts even Turkish allies such as the United States could in warships just outside of Russia's borders. that pass through it hoping for the project Number 7: Hornsea 3 &amp; 4 - $19.2B are using an amazing 3D size comparison animation helped us with this. If you want to see more channel! But now we continue with Hornsea 3 &amp; 4. Kingdom is the second largest producer 4 out of the 5 largest offshore wind farms in the Most notable of the four are the Hornsea Projects and first largest in the world respectively. Sea 80 kilometers east off the English coast. of 2.6GW of power, enough to serve as much as 3 up an area of 870 square kilometers which is However, despite the immense scale of the as much as 14GW of total generation, they reaching a combined capacity of 50 GW by 2030. farms are currently being planned to be built wind farms currently under construction and is planned to be built east of Hornsea 1 over an Hornsea 3 is expected to generate 2.8 GW of Even more power than Hornsea 1 and 2 combined. stage and will cover an area of 600 square is expected to start construction in 2023 Number 6: Energy Islands of Denmark - $30B Denmark is no stranger when it comes to the wind farm was actually built in the country way further development of the technology. Today, wind production; the highest percentage in the world. sources of clean and renewable energy, the largest construction project in the entire build the world's first ever Energy Islands; farms to Denmark and neighboring countries. large-scale offshore wind farms located in the be created in the North Sea section to act as would have a total capacity of up to 10GW, The island of Bornholm in the Baltic will serve Once completed, the Energy Islands would by as much as sevenfold. Construction on the Number 5: European route E39 - $30.6B being extremely rocky, mountainous, and separated difficult to navigate. The European route E39 easy to traverse path along the Norwegian coast. route still does not solve the problem entire Norwegian coast. This is because the highway that goes all the way from Denmark up of many different sections across vast stretches require travelers to board seven different ferry However, this is all about to change as the 20+ hours of travel time in half. They plan the required ferry connections. This will be that would bypass the water crossings along the Aalborg in Denmark, up to Trondheim in Norway. the Rogfast Subsea Tunnel which would connect a 15-kilometer stretch of water. If completed, deepest road tunnel with a length of 27 km surface. Work on the tunnel began back in 2018 The project also calls for the creation of carry the E39 across some of Norway's One of these planned bridges would go over the above the water. Once completed, this floating more than doubling the current record. The Paris Metro is one of the busiest metro million passengers each day. It is also known for in the Art Nouveau architectural style. Being Paris suffers from the worst traffic congestions it has been a top priority for the city facilitate the millions of commuters One major project that is aimed to combat Paris' largest transport project in the city which aims of the already intricate Paris Metro. The project and the extension of two existing ones. In to create 200 km of new tracks along with 68 million passengers daily. Construction of the new constructed in phases up to the year 2030. megaprojects in Europe, we want to thank With Squarespace you can create your own We actually built our own Top Luxury website by simple drag-and-drop Fluid Engine. The process But Squarespace offers more than their simple third-party extensions or use their powerful blogging tool which allows us to automatically whenever we upload a YouTube video, we can And their website analytics tool gives us our website and how they're If you want to get started you can head and when you're ready to launch, go to off your first purchase of a website or domain. Now, let's continue with Number 3: Hinkley Point C Nuclear power plants are notoriously and extremely costly to decommission. However, if their initial costs. So when the Hinkley Point was first proposed in 2010 it was met with with substantial financial backing from both was looking quite well for the new plant. nuclear power plants that are meant to replace the project was initially slated to complete in the enough to supply 7% of the entire country's unfortunately met with multiple delays that pushed balloon to more than double of initial estimates. backers withdrew from the project back in 2013 the 2011 Fukushima disaster. The COVID-19 delayed project with supply chain complications Today, the project is still under construction and more than twice of its initial price pushed back to as far as 2028. When the high-speed train connection between it was met with huge success. High Speed 1 managed to significantly reduce Because of its unprecedented success, the British line that would connect the British capital to the Department for Transportation started to line which would aptly be called High Speed 2. phases: one going from London to Birmingham, the East Midlands Parkway. As of 2020, the known to go for as much as $132B and will program in the country in over a century. started back in 2020 with the creation of viaducts under different terrain. The project is estimated Number 1: Trans-European Transport Network - $625B interconnected web of roads, railways, and go in and out of different countries. In fact, 27 the Schengen Area. Travel between countries within and functions as a single jurisdiction As part of an effort to further connect the the EU drafted plans to create what is network across the entire continent. The long-term project that will consist of roads, telecommunications infrastructure that would entity. The entire project will be divided into corridors that would cover all major population estimated to cost as much as $625B and One notable part of this ambitious vision the German island of Fehmarn to Lolland in and once completed in 2029, it would become the piece of infrastructure would drastically capital of Copenhagen to the German city of Another interesting part of the project cross the Alps and connect Italy and is part of the greater Lyon-Turin rail link rail networks for easier trade and travel. At Tunnel is set to become the world's longest rail Which of these projects are you most excited If you want to see more about similar the Top 10 Megaprojects in the USA. Thank you for