- Let me ask you, how old is the earth? - That's a bombshell. 6,000 years. Are you kidding me? - It feels like a big claim. Is there any evidence to support that? - A considerable amount, in fact. The rate at which we see rates of erosion of the The solar system speaks The moons of Jupiter can't have been around If the millions of years are true, we have a problem with God's character. - Why is that? - Because the millions of years always include death, - Wow. These are really serious things that Christians should really think about. Mark, many Christians do the age of the Earth. And you told me that once, you did your but something happened, turning your timidity into boldness, to the point where now to thousands of people around the world. What changed? - Well, Scott, I became a And I grew up believing that, well, God must have used That seemed like a logical conclusion. I didn't really think too much about it. I went through my high But I had a lot of questions Basic questions like why Because it made no sense. And I used to reason, Jesus have come to the earth, shown us how to live in relationship with our Heavenly Father, and then have been Why the agony of the cross? And I didn't understand it. And that's a pretty basic question for a young Christian, right? And consequently, I wasn't capable or confident in sharing my faith with others because they might ask and I couldn't answer. So then you look like you don't know what you're talking about. And I didn't want to go there. So it was at the end of my I was reading a book by Billy And in that book, Billy And in that chapter, he has words to the effect that Adam was no gibbering caveman. In other words, he made a deliberate conscious decision to rebel against God. And I just felt the do you believe that? And I thought, yeah, I do believe that. And it was like a light went on and I realized, well, if that's true, you can't have death and And that means the is theologically impossible. So that started me on a real journey of discovery and reading. And I discovered that, hey, I could actually believe without having to, as it were, leave my brains at the And that was liberating for me. - So you're there, you're a young man, finish your postgraduate degrees. You're reading this book and the realization that comes to you is that you can't have death before sin. - Yeah. - So how did that liberate you? - Well, it meant, - It meant that I now why Jesus died for me. Because the Bible actually in the New Testament that it was Adam's rebellion against God that brought suffering And that's why the last Adam came. He came to pay the price for Now until you link those you don't actually have a coherent basis for the gospel message. And that really was my I hadn't made that link. It was challenging then hang on a minute, I'm now confronting the belief system of the very culture in which I live, which of course is in of death, struggle, and suffering before mankind even appears. - Okay. So before that point, you would've said, hey, I'm a Christian, but I believe in the millions I believe in evolution. Is that correct? - Yeah, sort of. I avoided it though. - And I kept my head down. I certainly didn't share As I said, I wasn't game I mean, how can you something that you don't - Yes. - So it's almost like you had that really needed addressing, but you hadn't been able to face them, or you didn't think it until this point. I didn't really understand other than I was a closet Christian. You know, if you'd known you wouldn't have known I was a Christian. I wasn't open about my faith at all. Now, I didn't do all the things my engineering colleagues might have done, but I certainly wasn't sharing - Yeah. So you weren't but you weren't telling other - That's right. - Because you were concerned which you had not answered - Yeah, I didn't have confidence. - Yeah. So what you're saying is critical to you having the And so far, we've just covered, well, you saw the problem, and the problem was we And so that's an issue theologically, that's an issue for the gospel because why did Jesus come if there's, like he came to abolish death. - Absolutely. Absolutely. But the thing is, the millions of years always - Right. - So if you have death before Adam, you don't have a meaningful So that means the millions of years actually undercuts the gospel. And that was a revelation to me because I'd never joined - Yeah. Yep. - Now, it didn't happen overnight. It was a process of I like to summarize it like this, I say I discovered two key things. Number one, that I could because the evidence all points that way. And we'll talk about some of And the second thing I discovered is that I should believe it because the Genesis account - Yeah, I got you. So there's the theology or what the Bible says to be plainly true means that you should believe it. But then also there's a that points to this actually being true. - Yes. - But certainly that's We hear the contrary. - We do indeed. - And I hadn't heard any at that stage of my life. - You'd just heard the evidence for the millions and billions - That's right. - You've not heard the - It's in the textbook, it's on the TV documentaries. Where do you find out the evidence that supports the biblical - And so how did you find out the evidence that does support the biblical history and what did that do to your faith? - Well, reading that book by Billy Graham really started me on a journey because I realized I had And I started to buy books And I remember the and I started to read So I had a pencil on putting and yeah, not sure about that. I got to about the third or fourth page and it suddenly dawned - Wow. I can trust the Bible. It really was liberating. In a sense, it was like - Wow. - If I can use that. Not too much of an exaggeration. - Yeah. That sounds like a very And you can see the effects in your lives because since that point, for 35 years, you've to audiences across the world. - Yes, yes. Yes, I have indeed. - And it's also been really exciting to hear some of the of being able to transmit the and them have the same revelation. - Well, you know, just a week ago, I was at a church. And after the meeting, this man came up to me and said, &quot;I just wanna share briefly with you.&quot; He said, &quot;For 32 years, I've been burdened with doubts. It was all about dinosaurs and how do these things fit. And I'd ask questions and I would get answers But today, during the meeting, it was like a weight was And he just couldn't stop Thank you to the Lord - because it's God who - Wow. - And that's why I just love - Yeah. That's why you do what you do. That's great. - So, Mark, you've mentioned two things. One is that there's the need for Christians to find this information, that there is evidence, scientific evidence that supports the But you also said another important thing that happened in your transformation, and that was that you it needed to be this way. Not just for the inherency of scripture and to believe the Bible plain as you read it, but also because there was - Mm-hmm. - Because many Christians, and my experience was, I thought, okay, the Bible must be true. So I took the position but I didn't think it was about the age of the Earth. I thought I could be evangelical about being anti-Darwinian evolution because that was obvious. This death and suffering, God did not design this But I thought it was not necessary to be evangelical about the even though personally, I held to what the Bible said was true. They're what people characterize But to me, when I first found out the death before suffering issue, it took me maybe a couple of weeks for that to really sink in as - Yes. - Now what I wanna ask you is, 'cause you said the same thing, Is there any recommendation that are trying to understand this issue of why death before suffering is an issue for the gospel? Because really, if they understand that, they understand why need which is find out more information. - Yeah, this is very - Yep. And in my own experience And look, there is a And I couldn't think of anything better than recommending that - Yep. for Creation Ministries International. And there's over 13,000 that address the whole variety of issues that come up when one as actually being true history. - Yes. - The age of the Earth of But it's one that is a as you've rightly pointed out. - Okay. Now that's been really great to hear your testimony, Mark, and how this is an important issue. So I wanna get now into how we determine the age of something and what some of the So I guess I'll ask you How do we determine the age of something? - Well, I know my age because I've got a document at home called a birth certificate, which thankfully my parents found. - 25, right? - But just a shade more I'm glad you said that, Scott. So I have an historical record. Now, there is no scientific experiment you can conduct on my body, to determine my age. So making observations in the present actually can't permit So you really need an historical record. - Can I just pick you up on that? - Sure. There would be your cells. Would they be slightly - Oh, sure, sure. - But I think your point. - Kinda rough estimate, but not with any precision is my point. - Right. Yeah, got you. - You certainly couldn't determine that I was born on the 24th No, no, that was ago. So if you want an accurate, Now, a lot of the ages we see for things like rocks and fossils are given with extraordinary precision. So much precision that you think, wow, these scientists are, you know, they're really They know this stuff really well. I mean, who could argue with them? But it's interesting when because you can't actually measure age. - Right. - So a scientist measures the physical and chemical but you can't measure the age. So what they do typically is something which is happening and can be observed in the present, and then they wind it backwards to determine when it might have begun. Now that's a principle called So what's happening today is what has been happening And if we can measure this rate, we just go backwards and So that's very fundamental. It is a principle which the conclusions of geology now for a couple of hundred years. Now the problem with that is that you can't actually make Science only works in the present 'cause we've only got the present, we don't have the past at all. Perhaps I could give you an example. Let me use this glass of water. I'll try not to spill it on my laptop. So I've got some water in this. - Yeah. that this was sitting - Okay. - Now if I measured the rate - Yep. - and then I measured the I could calculate how long the Right? - So you've got the dripping rate and then you've got the - Yep. okay, the volume, and you've got the dripping rate, you can calculate the age. - Yeah. Sounds pretty straightforward, doesn't it? - Yeah. - But let's imagine now that you've only just discovered You've walked into the - Yeah. - You didn't see the cup - Okay. - So to be able to work out you've had to make some assumptions. What kind of assumptions do you think you would have to make? - Well, I guess you have to start with. But you don't know - True. I know you saying I guess that's how they, You also don't know that the tap's been - True. Yeah. You only measure in the - The present. That's right. So if someone had turned the tap on hard, partly filled up the cup, left it dripping, and then walked away, so seconds before you - Yeah. I've got a much slower dripping right now. And I can estimate a very big age when actually it was dripping - Yeah. - So it's a much younger - full cup than I realized. - Exactly. - So you're saying some work on this principle? - Well, I'm just trying So that would be applying to take the volume of water, hey presto, we get the age. So you can think of radiometric of working a little bit like that. You have a radioactively unstable element called a parent element that to produce what's called So if you can measure the to the daughter element in your sample, and knowing the rate of decay, you can then calculate But you're measuring the You're measuring the and daughter element in the present, but you don't know the initial conditions, how much parent and how much daughter were in the sample to begin with. Maybe some parent or removed from the sample in the past. Same with the daughter element. In fact, there is something like seven independent to be able to determine based on measurements in the present. - Wow. And so is there anything that Or is there any way that we can see that those assumptions I guess I'm asking is there a 'cause this is really because when people think and its stumbling block for Christianity and the biblical history of the earth, it's mainly to do with radiometric dating is the main thing I heard. That's right. Radiometric dating is held up as the, like an absolute dating method. - Yes. - Which gives billions of years if you use certain or potassium-argon and so on, there are quite a number of them. - And what you are describing It's a relative method that - Well, it's a method which - Okay. - Okay. So it's probably Relative dating would apply above or below another layer of rock. - Okay. Yeah. - In which case you the layer on top was deposited - Yes. that's not necessarily true because sometimes layers are laid down by horizontal transport of a slurry of different But let's not go there for the minute. - Yeah, yeah. - So it's put forward as - Yes. - But it is based on assumptions. - Yes. when you get a date that doesn't So let me give you an illustration. Let's say that when you without dripping tap in the cup, someone says to you, &quot;Oh, I saw that cup put under - Okay. And then you've got some, - So now you know the answer. How long has the cup been? It's been there for 45 minutes, irrespective of drip rates Okay? So you might think, when I calculate it based on drip rates and volumes of water, I get much longer than 45 minutes. So how do I make it fit? Well, okay, maybe there was a different maybe the drip rate was different. So you adjust your assumptions to make your scientific calculation fit what the historical record tells you. Can you see the difference? So it's the historical record how long the cup's been under the tap, or if you like the age of - Yeah. What do you assume is the age? And the assumption in the is based on what people believe. So if you begin with a belief that says, I have to explain this I'm forced into a naturalistic explanation 'cause I cannot admit into the equation. So when I have a naturalistic that's the evolutionary story, I've got to have deep time as it's called, the billions of years, to even have a ghost of a chance of explaining the extraordinary complexity and diversity of living things that we see in the world around us. So the millions of years become for the naturalistic explanation. So when you get an age, if it doesn't fit your millions of years, well, obviously the so that it does fit. - So you said earlier &quot;Hey, the cup was placed you've got your answer. - And you're saying that that And so are you saying the only way we can truly determine an age is if we have someone that - I think that's exactly right. And the best possible historical record is a written record from the eyewitness. - And I guess that's how we determine most of written history. And people talk about that happened, you know, Then we go into not just written history, but I guess it's archeological history. Is that correct? And we can confirm with reasonable precision. - But then written history, - Ah, well there is the question. What you've got to is - Yes. - You see, the earliest we find in Genesis chapter 1, verse 1, &quot;In the beginning, God created the heavens and the Earth.&quot; And it says on that first day, created the earth, light and darkness were separated, day and night. There was one day. So that's the very beginning. And that's when the written Now people say, oh, but hang on a minute. There was nobody there then. And yes, but God was there. And he's the eyewitness of what when he was speaking - Yes. - So that's the eyewitness Written through the agency but inspired and guided to write only what was true. - So it was Moses that the Pentateuch? - Oh, he was the editor and writer. - Okay. Okay. So there may well have that he had available to him. - Which he would've integrated into what's called the Pentateuch now, the first five books of the Bible. - So is it possible that and he wrote it down and got passed down the What's your thoughts? - It seems perfectly reasonable to me. They walked and talked in I can imagine Adam saying, &quot;So God, how did you create the stars?&quot; - Yeah. - &quot;What about this tree? And I could just think it And Adam, remember, was a perfect man. - Yes. - No flaws, no faults. He had a perfect intellect. Phenomenal capacity, the like of which we just don't see today. Yes. - But the problem is our by the evolutionary concepts. We think about the patriarchs as having swung outta the trees. But instead they were giants of intellect and we are just a pale of what they would have been. - Yeah. So I've heard it two ways. I've heard that Adam could through the generations and then it got to Moses, or that God could have But either way, the 'cause it was God. - Yeah. - Do you have a preference Is there a, - No, I think that sounds great. You see, in fact, - you can go, I think both. A bit of both. - I think both. - You have the early Now, it turns out that was 56 years old when Adam died. So it's quite possible the I'm quite sure they would've had writing right from the very beginning. - Yeah. - Went from Adam to Lamech And Shem, Noah's son, was alive when Abraham was alive. - Wow. - So you don't get many steps. It's not like you have the for thousands of generations. Not like that at all. Very few. - Just a few generations. - And then you have Moses. Interesting. So we're talking about the ages of things, and we've said that written history, most people agree on written history. When you talk about the when you talk about when maybe even when the Roman Empire was, and further back, people tend to agree roughly on Egyptian history, for example. I know there's some discrepancies, but what we're saying is you and you get the start and that was biblical written history. But some people wanna believe that we can go much And the way they need to do that is through these which you talked about having - Yes. But assumptions that are - Yes. - About the process of creation. - Yes. So for the evolutionist, a person who believes in evolution, the deep time, the millions and millions of years is an integral part of that whole story. - Yes. If you don't have you don't have time for, - Evolution to have taken place. - You can't have an ape turning into a man in just a thousand years, it needs millions of years. - Well, not even that's but that's what they think. That's right. - But it's based on a belief. And the important thing is that the belief begins you must explain everything - Yes. - And the reason is that So if you reject the supernatural, it's the same as saying, - Mm-hmm. - And that of course So the deep time and evolutionary position is in fact based on an apriori - That's interesting, 'cause mostly people would say that we're not coming to it it's a faith position. 'cause we have to ignore the evidence. But I think what you're saying it's a measurement made And if you change those assumptions, then you change your interpretation. - That's right. Here's the thing. You can change the assumptions and get any age you like, depending on the assumptions you make. But the worst thing is you can't test any of those assumptions because they're all in the past. - Yes. - And we don't have the past. - All we have is the present. And so I guess the is the only reliable is a historical eyewitness account of what actually happened. And I believe that's what we right from the very beginning. - Okay. So let me ask - Okay. So let's apply that principle. The historical record actually tells us. - Yep. - Tells us that God created Adam was created on the It tells us that Adam was 130 years old when his son, Seth was born. And Seth was 105 when And they're all the way down to Noah. And it says in the 600th the flood took place. You can just add those numbers up. They're all there in Genesis chapter 5. You don't have to be a It's straightforward. In fact, I get my grandchildren When they get to their 10th birthday, I'll sit down and we build a - Wow. - And you'll discover that after the creation. And then you can follow on and discover that Abraham was born about 2000 years after the creation. From Abraham to Jesus is about 2000 years. We know that scripturally And from the time of is about 2000 years. So if you've add those up, according to the Bible, here we are about 6,000 Now that's a bombshell. I mean 6,000 years. Are you kidding me? - Yeah. Most people would say that. - Yes. - And look, I've gotta be honest, when I realized that, it really did take my breath away. And I had to say, wow, Lord, there's gotta But you know there is. - There's enormous amounts of evidence for a recent creation. - It just that people don't know about it. But that's the sort of thing - It feels like a big claim, and it feels like, well, big claim, it - Absolutely. - So could you give us some of those, I mean, obviously, people and they can find out those. - creation.com/age was it? Or 101? - Yeah. Yeah, yeah. creation.com/age - And you can go and - 101 Evidences. - Could you just give us a - Absolutely. Look, there are various There are those which with the evolutionary timescales. And then there are to just a matter of a few Now in the former category, I would think, well, let's take some and maybe it might be worth just spending a little bit of time on that because radiometric dates gets in our culture. So what you can do is test how Now in order to do that, you need to have a rock of known age. - So it takes the assumptions away. Like earlier, we're saying 40 minutes. - Absolutely. So then it got You see, you know when How do you get a rock of known age? Well, a really good way is to take a rock from the lava dome of a volcano - It's just been solidified. So you know someone saw it. It's a historical record. - So there's an historical So we now know exactly So people have taken for instance, of Mount St. Helens. It erupted in 1980. And a rock from the larva using the potassium-argon dating method. And people got anywhere from 350,000 years to 2.8 million years old. - Wow. And it was only 1980. - Well, yes. And the rocks at the time - Oh right. - Okay. - And read in the literature, well, dating rocks that are So just hang on a minute, let's just think through that. I've just given you a rock to date, and you are telling me that a young rock is very hard to date. But I don't know if it's young or old, I just know I've got a rock. I want you to tell me is it young or old? So it's an interesting admission to make, isn't it? - That the dating oh, well, it's pretty But the point is, you shouldn't get such of very old ages for something which is - Yeah. I get you. So I guess they're kind of saying, hey, look, the amount of daughter element is gonna be very low 'cause it's so young. But what you are saying is, well, hang on. Shouldn't you get the - Well, yes. - And not this range 'cause it's 350,000 units to 2.5 million. - And it should be within your error bars of performing the measurement. - Yeah. And they give error - Absolutely. - Any competent dating - Yeah. Wow. - So there are a number of others. There's a couple of volcanoes in Hawaii, Kilauea and Hualalai. - Each of which erupted Various ranges of ages, anywhere from up to 22 million years, or one was data between 160 million and 3.3 billion years old. And they're about 200 years old. - So people have done this a lot. And it sounds like, I mean, they must be creationists that are going to these sites and they take the rock samples and they send them away to laboratories. - Yeah. - But it is not only creationists. I mean, the geologists - Yes, yes. - And they come across so they send it off to be dated, usually potassium-argon They wanna have confidence But if you get unreliable results for things that have a known age, how can you have confidence in the results you get - Yeah. - So there's a fundamental dilemma there. But there's something else you can do. You can test different dating methods on things which must So let me give you an example. In Queensland, there's a mine where about 20 something meters down, a drilling discovered a And it had passed through a forest and there was charred wood still there. So the basalt was dated at 45 million years. The wood was carbon dated at A factor of a thousand different. But there must be at the same age 'cause the lava has - Wow. - So you would think should give about the same results. Now people will say, yeah, but hang on, carbon dating can't go back But it gave a date well within the range of its So it should have at least But there was carbon-14 present, showing that it could not - So you're saying they came back with a carbon date and the okay, so it's within its caliber, it's within its level. - Yeah. Yeah. So therefore, that shows that these methods are not very reliable. That's what it's showing. - Well, it says that, And to be fair, no serious scientist relies - Right. the uncertainty of the So geologists for instance, would always do what They will look at the layers the relevant sample. And if, for instance, it's above a layer, which is generally accepted and one of the results comes well, they'd reject that So it can't be that So there's other data in interpreting the results. So when the published results come out, if a date is within what they expect, they'll publish it. If it's not too far out, it might appear as a footnote, but if it's completely Now, I'm not trying to because I am one, but what it reveals is how because we filter all the evidence we get in accordance with what So if I've signed up for the evolutionary story, and there can be no creator, if I get a date which like too young, for instance, I'll just reject it, I'll rationalize it away. Maybe there we're impurities, perhaps the lab equipment It's a bit of an insult to the lab. Maybe the lab technician I don't know. But whatever happens, something was wrong. Now the problem is you've got a budget for your research project, and these results, these So you haven't got enough - Interesting. Now that has an interesting effect. It means that everything aligns pretty closely with the paradigm. So the peer review system - We've spent a bit of time which I think is really important. And actually, there's that people can do on that. And again, we'd refer them to the website, creation.com So let's go back to the evidences. What are the other evidences? - So we've talked about You can find rocks of a known age, and the radiometric dating gets it wrong. - Yeah. - But what about other - Look, there's a lot of these. Let me just give you a few. And these are the sorts of things that people never hear about. Right? - The river systems around the world today dump about 20 billion onto the ocean floor every year. Now we can take an average We can calculate approximately we know the rate at which So we can place an upper limit on the age of the ocean floor. And it turns, out all of that we're just taking a process we're winding it backwards. - Yep. - And all of that would've got there in less than 12 million years. - Interesting. - Now that's a disaster because the oceans are supposed to be at least 3000 million But then people might say, ah, yes, but it's too long of only thousands of years. So you gotta go back to So is there some event in the that might have dumped billions on the ocean floor? And you guessed it, the flood. So when you have the of the history of the earth, we have the basis on which we can interpret There are stacks of those. The rate at which the would mean that the current continents would erode down to sea level How come they're still here? The earth is supposed to we're told. It's not consistent Outside of the earth looking people think that astronomy of proof of evolutionary The moons of Jupiter. Absolutely fascinating. There's lots of those. Back in 2018, they discovered another 12. They were interesting because they were what are They orbit Jupiter in from all the others. - Which rotate around which Jupiter itself is - Yeah. That's another story. But in this group of 12 going backwards, there's one going forwards. And so in the the article in the journals, the scientists said, &quot;This is an unstable situation. Head on collisions would quickly occur and grind the objects down to dust.&quot; But they're not dust, they're still there. So just how long can you fly upstream amongst all these other moons with an orbit that crosses So what it says is those have not been there for 4.5 billion years. Lucky to have been there So it's a pointer to a recent creation. Now the evolutionist can And they'll make up a story that says, ah, well, maybe there and the debris got captured and ended up in this nice circular group going the wrong way, except for one, which But anyway, let's move on. - Number of specific Yeah. - It's a long bow to draw. - Yeah. I got you. - And I don't think it's really a plausible Far more likely that the so that there's an indelible on the moons of Jupiter showing us that they Saturn's rings are decaying The Cassini space probe passed through the rings multiple times towards the end of its life. And the results are secular scientists, that the rings cannot be more So there's no really plausible Here they are and So there are some things that are very discordant but things which perhaps to the biblical age. Now look at the population It's about 8 billion people, Do you know when I was born, the Earth's population was 2.5 billion? - Wow. - And when I was doing my post-grad work, it was about 4 billion. And now it's 8 billion. So how long can we keep And you go backwards. Now here's the problem. You see, if you look that survived the flood, and there were six people Shem, and Ham, and Japheth, Noah's three sons, and their wives. And let that population grow at the rate of about half a percent for four and a half thousand years, you end up with 8 billion. - Just half a percent, is that reasonable? - That's a very conservative growth rate. Growth rate today is more - Wow. to allow for things like But if mankind had been on the planet for a hundred thousand years or more, where are all the people? We should be shoulder to shoulder on every square meter including the ocean basins, and that wouldn't be enough. - Wow. - So it's not consistent with the idea that we've for a hundred thousand years - Sounds like you can even just with the, I've not looked into the numbers, but just from what you're saying there. - Well, that's right. But it's quite consistent - Yeah. - Another one which is very interesting, the discovery of carbon-14 and in fossils everywhere. The remains of living things consistently show the Carbon-14 has a relatively about 5,700 years. So quick that you really or be able to detect carbon-14 for more than about - That's its maximum life - Yeah, but to be able to and then that's going to - That'd be the daughter element. - It would be - so small, you can't detect it. - They can't. They can't detect it. So the fact that carbon-14 in organic material, fossils, says that they haven't been Could only be a matter of thousands. But thousands is consistent with the Bible's record of history. And when you correct for things like the effect of the flood, the dates one gets from carbon-14 But that's another story we could go into. So there's a lot of these things which show that the evolutionary story really struggles to explain processes that we can observe today. And there are some of those which point very strongly - You know, Mark, some of the I can imagine an excuse for it. And you even mentioned some of them to try and dismantle them. And I guess that's because in a way, a lot of those examples you gave were employing the same - Yes. Yes, they were. - So really we're coming back to more of the beginning which was there isn't a way to measure age apart from a written record. - That's exactly right. - So looking at these evidences, you can paint them one way or the other, and you can choose which one you want. And so I guess what you're saying is, like you've mentioned all of these, and maybe many people have but the ones we get told are on our newspapers, in our magazines, on our TV screens, in our museums, we only get told the one side of the story that uses certain assumptions - to get these large ages. - But what you are demonstrating is that actually, we can use the same idea and get young ages, we just need to look at different things. - And show that some of the processes produce very discordant results Discordant with the evolutionary story. - Got you. - But you're absolutely right, Anybody can make up any story you like about the unobserved past, because no one can check you. No one was there. So the evolutionist always has or they'll make one up. But the question is how plausible is it? How consistent is it? - So once again, it comes back Have you begun with the Have you tried to build into your worldview? Now that was my problem as I was integrating an an atheistic worldview into my developing biblical worldview. And it was hopelessly in conflict. I therefore couldn't understand As fundamental as that. That's why this is such - Yeah. And as we were talking about the start, you were timid in your faith, you didn't share it because you had two worldviews And really, when you tell your testimony, there seems to be this actually, I can just and have a consistent one worldview. And that really gave you - the life and the energy and gave you the understanding to - That's right. - That's right. Well, the Bible says we are with all our heart and So having, somebody says, you don't park your brains But what that means is we can and with our intellects. - Fully. Because the evidence correctly interpreted in the light of the true simply supports that historical record. Now you might think that's a bit circular, but it actually isn't because the variety of evidence we get is from a whole range of And they all point to the And there are many, many ways, as I said, that people will find on our website. If you'll allow me, there are two other key reasons why this age of the that if the millions of years are true, we have a problem with God's character. - All right, why is that? - Because the millions of years always include death, - Right. - We as little creatures evolve slowly to more complex organisms, and finally mankind appears. Now a lot of Christians will say, &quot;Oh, well, Genesis begins with man. And before that was all this animal death for millions of years. And when Adam rebelled, it was just human death that came.&quot; But the Bible says that is in bondage to decay. - Yeah, Romans 8, I think. It's not just mankind. Everything in the creation this inexorable running down. - Yeah. - So the whole of the - And that seems to impugn God's character is what you're saying? Because if the millions of years are true, it means that he created the world full of suffering and death before man and therefore before man's sin. - And that doesn't sound That doesn't sound like when it says death is the It's an enemy. - And so what you're saying is actually, when we accept the millions of years as the age of the Earth, we're agreeing, not with the Bible, we're agreeing that but God created death. - As a means to go forward. - So hence the classic question comes, if God is a good God, why do bad things happen? Why doesn't he just fix it all up? Why does he allow it to happen? Doesn't he know what's going on? Doesn't he care? Is he impotent? You see, these are questions which, well, that was a question that plagued me as a young Christian. I couldn't answer that. - Well, that's a major question for unbelievers as well. - If you are evangelizing, I had that question before - Right. What about the struggle? What about the pain? - That's right. Now, I don't believe you can without understanding the So the first challenge And for Christians to they've actually impugned God's character. But the second issue is to do with the inerrancy Now, the Bible claims to be Jesus said, &quot;I'm the way, And in John 1, it tells And in the beginning. He was with God and in the beginning. So the word of God is So everything that is in the must be true and we can have So people say to me, oh yes, but, but it was written by men. Well, yes, through the but under the inspiration And what that means is wrote only in accordance and without errors. Now just think back, they would've had all about the physical universe. There was a very common view Or was it four? Air, fire, earth and mortar. Four. - And a lot of people held that view, but not one of those human authors put any of that into what they wrote. The Holy Spirit so guided them that no errors were - Interesting. I never That they're, 'cause a lot of the time you hear, oh, the Bible is not scientific. But what you're saying is scientific errors in that day, they were not recorded in the scripture. - That's right. - So you're saying that's evidence that God guided the scripture? - I believe so. - So it's not that the Bible It clearly is not. But it's a history book of the universe. - Yes. And it's got no errors. - And it has no errors. So if the Bible makes statements, we can have complete confidence So there are three counts on which it's a major issue that the millions of years the millions of years calls into question the inerrancy of scripture, and the millions of years undermines the proclamation of the gospel because it makes it unintelligible. - You summarized it really well. So the millions of years challenges the inerrancy of scripture, it impugns the character of God, and it downgrades the gospel or makes the gospel unintelligible. - Mm-hmm. These are really serious things that Christians should really think about. I mean, the age of the Earth, - it sounds like it is a big deal and something that we should look into. - Yes. - Absolutely. - Thanks a lot for your time, Mark. - It's a pleasure. Thank you.