If a ship was to capsize, they don't just turn turtle quickly. They fill up with water. And for the vessel to turn would have to hang on to Hi, I'm Capt. Wendy Williams. Recently, I was the first Canadian woman to captain a mega cruise ship. Today, we'll be looking in movies and TV and deciding It's going to hit! Jack: Get back! The Titanic disaster is the one that everybody associates First of all, it struck an iceberg. I'm hoping it would never happen again, but I don't, I never say We just have a lot more technology and we have associations and the ability to track some I don't think that the crew of the Titanic were even expecting ice. Whereas now, it's part of the training. They're closing the doors! With any incidents on board, there's checklists of things, but there are initial actions for something that may or hitting another vessel. And that is to close all What they called watertight compartments were not actually watertight, so they actually put doors through what should've been And what happened was that the If a ship were to have a strike, there may be the need to be in a water-filled or water-filling area and have to do exactly Unfortunately, they got and things were locked. There are emergency escapes You have to hold an emergency drill. Jack: I've got you. I won't let go. Is it advisable to go up or down? I mean, the ship is sinking. You're going to do what The fight-or-flight kicks in, and we would be just grappling before succumbing to Some people actually in a situation where the they choose that jumping into the water is the safest method. My view and what I tell everybody and when we're going through training is your ship is your biggest lifeboat. You don't want to be in unless you absolutely have to. In this case, a lot of people died because they could not I think it's an eight. It was really well done, that it was very similar to that event. I've seen the movie. That's food illness. I've never been on a ship where there's been an issue with food. The food and the food preparation, it's very highly regulated. Everybody has to have special I'm sure it does happen, it Cruise ships have been in the news a lot for something called norovirus. Typically, the cruise ship People bring norovirus to the ship. There's a guy bringing out an AED that just happens to have one. Crew members would, even they would just be making They wouldn't actually be On a vessel of that size, there would be a dedicated medical crew. Typically, they would and have some sort of triage place. Hand grenade. Piracy is a thing. of many different types Cruise ships are not exempt from that. I mean, there's all of how vessels do navigate through areas where there is a risk of piracy. There are agencies that actually put people There's barbed wire on It can get pretty nasty. The pirates themselves, some of them are equipped with and really bad weaponry I'm assuming the explosion at happened because of one grenade. I don't think a grenade a vessel of that size, one of them. Believability here, probably four, five, for how the situations were being handled and the actual attack itself. Laser imaging generating a negative white-screen response, sir. That's impossible. Radios, there are so many backups, and if the radios didn't work, all sorts of different types To be able to scramble What's happening here, gentlemen? There's a lot of people on the bridge. I'm not sure what they're all doing. Most cruise companies, they have different terminology, but we would have what's called green, yellow, and red conditions. Green would be when Typically you would have a you would have an assistant and you would have one or two lookouts. That would be the bridge composition. Our bridges, like, a full red condition, would be captain, staff captain, chief mate or communicator, two lookouts. That's it. Five. Five of you on the bridge, Probably just a pod of whales. Moving at 31 knots, sir? I don't think so. Where's it coming from? Directly beneath us. This particular cruise ship which, I don't know why you would even need So, everything is scrambled except for the sonar I guess it's a sea monster in this one. Even though in this particular movie clip, they're dealing with a sea monster, not to put whales or large of being sea monsters, very unfortunately, Cruise ships pay a lot of attention to give a large leave distance and to avoid whales at all costs. Believability from that This one looked like Not a believable wave. A tsunami is biggest when Out at sea, a tsunami might just be a wave like any other wave. So the fact that this is a yeah, probably not that believable. Being that a tsunami wave you wouldn't necessarily navigate but you would navigate away from the area of concern if you could. I do remember seeing this as a kid, and I remember the dining-room scene and everything going upside down. Are tables and chairs and Cruise ships, larger vessels, they have something called a heavy weather or a heavy object register list. And yes, larger, big-ticket items that can cause a lot of could literally go through So they are secured. Tables and chairs, no, And for the vessel to turn that quickly so that people would not believable. If a ship was to capsize, they don't just turn turtle quickly. They fill up with water. All right, now what? We're in shaft alley. Nowhere This hull is only 1 inch thick. Would there be a sustained amount of time that people could have I mean, possibly yes. The likelihood of there that much time, highly unlikely. The shaft alley, that's interesting, because the shell-plating That is probably icebreaker class. One inch would be exceptionally thick. Ship hulls are not that thick typically, but in engine spaces, technical Thickness varies depending and for what class. I'd probably give it a nine believability, two, three. The deadly Pandora virus Unprecedented threat requires A virus?! Stop the ship! Given that it was created in 2012 -- the pandemic took everyone by surprise, and certainly cruise ships that were already in mid-cruise suddenly were getting cases The Diamond Princess was very unfortunate that she had a lot of cases on board and then was put under quarantine. She was kind of the worst-case scenario. Ships are now being such that it's independent in cabins, filtration systems, much like Announcer: As we greet a Today's delicious buffet features fresh seagull and Would the ship look like But in &quot;The Simpsons,&quot; where Vessels could only be as their fuel and food supply We didn't and we wouldn't Cruise ships do carry a lot of food, and they carry food in excess of what the voyage length would be, but not by that much. So I'd probably give that a nine, just because it's actually pretty spot-on for having been made almost No, don't let him drink that! Don't let him drink our torpedo juice. They're in a ship's jail, or a brig. Ours look a lot different than that. You wouldn't be thrown There are holding cells, and they are typically a with a mattress on the ground, and they're under camera surveillance and they have a window, a Typically, they're not It could be just the night But there's a lot of factors before we could actually put Whatever the situation anybody else getting or from them harming themselves. This is a big cruise ship! It's got, like, a big, deep sound. It's like a [imitating engine starting]. Yeah, if you're starting the engine. But we would be hearing a steady The guy that was doing the kind of low &quot;boom, boom, boom&quot; is probably closest. It depends what kind of So if they have big you may have that guy that was generating that &quot;boom, boom, boom, boom&quot; sound. It's almost a comforting [alarm going off] You wouldn't be left alone, so that was a little unrealistic. Kind of a common thread here, everything on a cruise ship so that we don't forget people, we don't forget to sweep areas. It would be part of the to escort them to a muster area. That would not happen. Believability of the jail This is dealing with the rogue wave. For a long time, people that rogue waves actually existed. It's an anomaly wave that is different from in a certain sea state. And then it could overturn I got it! I got it! Come on. Turn. Basically, the tip, or the bow, has what's called a collision bulkhead, and it's very strong construction. You never really want to because even in a small sea, a vessel can get into a synchronicity, which will cause it to The announcements were not appropriate. I felt that they caused you want everybody to but there are ways to word like their understanding of the situation, this is what's happening, but I am in the hands and if I follow You would have crew members whose duty it would be Cruise ships have a fantastic stability criteria, they call it, and it would take a h--- of a Is it going to happen as a result of the general rogue waves that Now, if a cruise ship these areas that are not causing the capsize. A good example of that we may have seen that maybe people will understand is the Costa Concordia. She went over, and she were it not for the depth That's a little bit of a movie thing. You're not going to really get explosions, because explosions would have to do with vapors catching and a large amount of vapors in an area causing And on cruise ships, you just don't have that I can't think of something that Although exciting, very exciting. Believability of what was going on, probably a five, four, somewhere in that realm. But fun. Fun to watch. Ready. Now. For somebody to be able to control the main engines of a vessel, no, they're not hooked in that anybody would be able to take over. There's automated systems on board, but everything can be done manually. What are these switches here? Don't you touch them! They open the ballast doors. There aren't ballast doors. There's watertight doors Those are the tanks that to change the trim of a vessel. Someone's just taken the wrong term and put it with the wrong equipment. It'd have to have been going for it to sort of glance off like that, but the amount of speed, and the two vessels would've There was a few black not even a crumpled bow. Yeah, not really believable. For the cargo vessel to have that wouldn't happen. Anchors are either stowed The cargo vessel was not moving, and there was no sea to Those things weigh tons and tons. Believability on a scale Not a lot there, meat on the My favorite cruise ship scene from today would have to be &quot;Titanic.&quot; It's the basis for all the safety protocol that we do today, and I think the portrayal the severity of the situation, was very readily understood. If you have enjoyed this today, all you have to do is click the link above and set sail for another one.