So, it's been a full year since I installed these house ... and I've got some news. They say solar but what actually happened. This past year was a of getting them installed to seeing how well through heat waves, freezing temperatures, and solar isn't all sunshine and rainbows. Was I able to achieve net zero energy? And most I learned some pretty surprising lessons I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. So this is the second part to my "What I Learned first part focused heavily on what went into energy efficient home with geothermal heating and more. I'll link to that one in the description My goal is to give you some strategies to that you should do exactly what I did, because you But hopefully, these videos spark some ideas in more energy efficient. And, of course, I'll do all of my effort really worth it in the end? the course of the year than we used, so we is a little bit of a gotcha I discovered on how But first, what did we install? We went with 43 system. Most panels face south, while a few on and evening sun. This setup is estimated to We paired the panels with 20 kWh of Enphase IQ full power, but plenty to keep things "current" fridge and HVAC). There's a whole backstory which is what I actually wanted, And the price? Let's just say it wasn't and the batteries were $33,407, totaling details in previous videos, which I'll link general costs of solar. I'll get into To optimize and monitor energy use, we for circuit-by-circuit usage data. Home with a dashboard that combines data water tracking. It's a great way to We've also installed Lutron Diva dimmers automatically turn off lights when rooms are Lutron Serena shades are programmed and incoming sunlight, helping control indoor the Lutron system gets high spouse Before diving into the crazy high costs, deciding on solar (or any tech) Solar isn't a one-size-fits-all solution. Some others claim everyone should have it--but neither decision that depends on your unique In our case, we built this house as our forever in mind. That's why we invested in a super we believe will pay off financially and enhance a single-story layout, not just for aesthetics in place without worrying about stairs. And we regardless of future energy prices or inflation. ensuring stability and energy independence, I see my house as a whole system--not but how they interact with the home's hot water production, and EV charging. So how was the performance over the first 12 I'll be on a trip in Germany by the time this Surfshark. I've been using Surfshark for what it. Surfshark is a fast, easy to use VPN install on an unlimited number of devices Even shopping services will sometimes so you can change your location to They also have add-ons to their VPN service to let you know if your email or personal details, breach. Right now they're running an absolutely only ... go to surfshark.com slash undecided for 4 SurfShark offers a 30-day money-back guarantee, I've been using Surfshark for years and love it. description below. Thanks to Surfshark and So, how did solar perform in the first 12 months? with estimates from my installer and my own professional installation, I cover my approach in which you can find on my website. If you're this guide isn't really for you. But if like I did ... it can be a huge help. I'll put a According to my Span Smart Panel, my house closer to 16 MWh), so we easily met our Month-by-month, I was extremely especially in November and February, which was just under our energy use, and The way this works out financially is also First, as I mentioned before, it's performed to really understand if the to look at how solar paired with the and hot water production--two of the In previous videos, I shared that I spent $78,000 water. The bulk of this cost came from drilling into the budget. Thanks to a 30% federal tax to $54,600-- which is more comparable, but still considered at $38,000. If I'd retrofitted $15,000 Massachusetts rebate for switching from as a new house, the geothermal system still played This wasn't just for the geothermal, but also the home. That rebate also worked out to $15,000. cost of my geothermal system $39,600, which isn't Even without the state rebate, the difference our geothermal used around 2,260 kWh, totaling about $700.69 per Since our geothermal system includes a reducing the load on our heat pump water 818 kWh for the year, or roughly $21.14/month, Because I'm a super nerd and love data, data for Massachusetts going back 34 years and year. It's about a 3.28% increase on average. you find some interesting trends I compared my geothermal heat pump water heater My current hot water cost is $253.68 per year, Over a decade, my geothermal setup will heat pump water heater, or $4,545 compared to My HVAC and hot water system combined currently costs about $954.37 per year to run, while we considered would have cost $2,121 per the return on investment between the two systems 12 to 25 (a reasonable lifespan), the geothermal If you do start off counting that $15,000 rebate, the two systems are essentially the same my geothermal system will be $42,321.13 Of course, these electricity costs are with solar. Essentially, by installing solar, I've fixing my costs and protecting my return on investment really I'm taking advantage of the 30% federal credit for solar and battery installs, which the Massachusetts SMART program, a renewable should provide around $5,000 over 10 I'm also enrolled in my utility's Connected help stabilize the grid during summer peak during the summer. Last summer, I participated me about $1,881. Unlike Tesla, which takes a like Enphase, Sonnen, FranklinWH, basically everyone else, pass on the full amount this could bring in around $9,407, reducing my Without solar, my annual electricity costs would break even in about 9 years, and from year 10 Because installing solar is like bulk buying your what the per kWh price would be breaking it up electricity price? My REC panels have a 25 year warranty is for at least 98% of output in year 1, Even with a 0.25% yearly degradation, my MWh annually by year 30, down from 18.1 MWh around year 9 when my solar panel cost per kWh likely rate increases, utility electricity could my solar cost drops to $0.13 per kWh, and by year at $0.76 per kWh by year 30, the long-term savings are unique to my setup. You can't take that and and cost of the system will be different But here's the catch. We still have an electric for our grid connection, which seems fair an important detail: in Massachusetts, for net metering credit ... sort of. On your bill, I mentioned I pay that $0.31/kWh here. Now if you $0.15 for supply and $0.16 for delivery. It's not to 1 credit is like wiping out both ... up until you credited for the supply cost only, which amounts Right now, I have over $500 in credits on and January bills when solar production for those two months was around $752, so these we might only pay $200-300 every This limited credit for net positive financially valuable since storing and using That's why I'm excited Span rolled out their I used to do this with a kind of hack in Home my EV when there's only excess solar, keeping So, was this whole endeavor--solar, battery, heat pump dryer, and everything else I our house's costs and energy use to a similar, air-source heat pump. I tried to do an apples to Before we had the solar and home battery of 32. That's a rating of how efficient your house we're hitting now. At the time we built this house a HERS rating of 52. As of July this year new keeping the solar and home battery out of this for The HERS 52 house (with air source heat pump) house (with air source heat pump) would cost air source heat pump) would cost about $6,400.12 Over 30 years, the HERS 32 home saves over and about $100,000 compared to a HERS 42. save nearly $300,000 versus the HERS 52 home So at the end of all of this, my wife and I do been an electrifying experience. The house has reducing our dependence on the while giving us the comfort we were Your mileage will vary (or rather, your you should check out EnergySage for great articles I've found them to be an amazing resource when one. For U.S. residents, my EnergySage portal quotes for solar and heat pumps without sharing random calls). It's also an affiliate program, I find EnergySage a great way to easily compare But what do you think? Have you done anything specific elements? Jump into the comments follow up podcast Still TBD where we'll keep this for your continued support. Keep your mind open,