T1J: On the show Schitt's Creek, there's She's basically the epitome of the obnoxious, ALEXIS: Hold on, hold on. Those bags are not for you! My boyfriend bought those for me, so theoretically T1J: She's spoiled and kinda snooty, ALEXIS: Ew! Ew! Ew, ew, ew, ew, ew ,ew T1J: She's obsessed with being the center She constantly name-dropping her wealthy acquaintances. ALEXIS: I used to text Zac Efron just like call. Poor thing would be buzzing my apartment before T1J: But by the time I finished the series, which I did not expect to happen. Over six seasons, she somehow develops into really end up rooting for. We kinda get that for all of the characters about this out of touch family of narcissists that allows them to slowly become slightly It's send up of the ridiculous folks you or The Real Housewives, which may make you think that the show is But what we actually get is a surprisingly you cry more than once. But Alexis's story is somewhat unique compared a video about it. Most of the other main characters get their more unclear. But I'm getting ahead of myself, let's Hi, I'm T1J. Follow me! I'm supposed to use this time to ask you to get into the video before people get bored. Oh well. So, if you've never seen Schitt's Creek, from 2015-2020. It revolves around the extremely wealthy Rose who are defrauded by their crooked business And since the Roses can no longer afford their the government seizes most of their assets, to keep. ADVISOR: You bought a small town in 1991, JOHNNY: Yes. I bought that as a joke for my son. DAVID: Wait, you actually purchased that town? JOHNNY: Yes I purchased the town, how else ADVISOR: This town might just be your saving MOIRA: What do you mean? ADVISOR: You can live there for next to nothing T1J: So the Roses grab what little possessions town of Schitt's Creek, where the only available lodging is an old As you might imagine, the Roses are not super JOHNNY: David, help me with the doors. DAVID: No, I can't, I just got out of the JOHNNY: I need help with the doors. ALEXIS: Help him with the doors! DAVID: You help him with the doors! ALEXIS: No! JOHNNY: David, could you help me with the DAVID: It's air drying! MOIRA: Pick up a hammer and nail this coffin T1J: The patriarch of the Rose family is Johnny, who earned his fortune as the owner of Rose JOHNNY: Terrible parents? We sent them to the best boarding schools, right! T1J: which is funny considering that this in exposure it got from being released on the company that is largely credited for gutting I think Rose Video was gonna have some issues Johnny is married to Moira, a dramatic, substance who switches up her speaking accent almost In my opinion, she's the funniest character MOIRA: (cockney accent) I'm from London, I Tragically, I was snatched from my crib at T1J: The Roses have two spoiled adult children. David, their son is fashionable and flamboyant, DAVID: Yeah, &quot;funky&quot; is a neon t-shirt you iPhone case. This? This is luxury. T1J: His friendship with Stevie, who works and his eventual romance with his business of the show. Unfortunately I can only talk about so much and I've chosen for now to focus on the Alexis is an obvious reference to wealthy Kardashian. Over the years they has been a not-so-flattering which I'm not gonna personally engage in because never met. But Alexis, the fictional character, is definitely not that smart. DAVID: What are you doing? ALEXIS: I'm checking the mail. Did you know that you can still get mail? DAVID: Yes, I know about mail. T1J: But there are moments that show a deeper beginning. For example, she's generally a kind-hearted She's never knowingly cruel, she's just always so she can unintentionally come off as rude ALEXIS: I wish I could pull off the whole So French. STEVIE: Thank you? T1J: She's not a mean girl, which is what And there's a running joke throughout the Alexis has taken part in since her teenage which were often extremely dangerous. ALEXIS: Do I have to remind you of the time yacht by Somali pirates for a week? TED: I don't think you can run in those. ALEXIS: Tell that to me at twenty-one escaping I'm sorry, were you picked up by the South T1J: This is played for laughs of course, character. It has resulted in Alexis developing a knack have, as well as a lot of surprising knowledge and ALEXIS: I don't know why you didn't ask me countries, and I have my F-class. DAVID: Isn't that for transport trucks? ALEXIS: Yes! Well, I had a lot of people to move! T1J: There's a great scene where the family at it except for Alexis because she's been ALEXIS: Okay, this is an ancient Egyptian one tattooed on her lower back in seventh DAVID: Okay what does this mean?! ALEXIS: It means we need to find something ...a pyramid. T1J: Wait, the key was under that pyramid What a trash escape room. Alexis quickly finds the two most eligible And her story arc throughout the run of the It's a classic sitcom love triangle! Ted, the local veterinarian, is immediately TED: You know, I have to say, I think that every seen. ALEXIS: What? No, I'm sure there's like...another girl somewhere. TED: No, I mean it. ALEXIS: Yeah. T1J: He's a stark contrast to the playboy he's kind of a goofball with a heart of sweetheart characters in shows like this. TED: (baby talk) Isn't that right Fifi?! Yeah, your worms are almost all gone aren't T1J: Alexis decides to go out with Ted and But while she's seeing Ted she finds herself boy Mutt. And this guy, like, never wears shirts, so ALEXIS: So, why do they give you table scraps? Are you, like, a poor person or...? MUTT: Um, no but thanks for asking. No I use it to compost. T1J: Over the next few months Alexis spends adjusting to the ways that she and Ted are For one, Ted's a veterinarian, and Alexis Also, Alexis is kind of annoyed by how nice ALEXIS: So, um Ted ordered toast, not home just be a peach and-- TWYLA: Oh, sorry -- TED: No, you know what, it's okay. I'm good with it. I like home fries, and I'm gonna eat em, so. T1J: She's used to dudes that have a little Dudes, more like Mutt. Alexis also happens to find herself spending because she's forced to complete some community And Mutt got busted selling weed to truckers. But we learn that Mutt kept doing community hours. It seems he was a little more motivated than and Alexis confronts him about it. ALEXIS: Why did you do that extra community MUTT: You know why... ALEXIS: Why can't you just say it? T1J: After a couple of months, the Roses finally when a wealthy businessman offers to purchase Which would certainly get them back on their Creek. And needless to say, the family is excited. JOHNNY: We're finally getting out! (joyful laugh) DAVID: Oh my god. JOHNNY: I mean it! (The Roses cheer and scream) MOIRA: (joyful sobbing) T1J: But when Alexis goes to say goodbye to ALEXIS: Well me and my family are leaving. TED: Oh. Well, in that case, then um--- here there's something that I need to show you. ALEXIS: Okay... TED: Alexis Clare Rose-- will you marry me? T1J: As you might imagine, the deal doesn't a show. Which leaves Alexis in a sticky situation. MOIRA: Are you going to be all right? ALEXIS: I'm pretty sure I'm engaged. And I'm pretty sure I just cheated on my fiance. T1J: Alexis ultimately decides to break up ALEXIS: You're the perfect boyfriend, Ted. But you're not the perfect boyfriend for me. T1J: But the relationship only lasts a few because the whole relationship is pretty much It's unclear if they actually even like each Mutt was dismissive towards Alexis the first MUTT: Composting...? ALEXIS: Yeah, no I know composting! Um, Gwyneth Paltrow does a compost gift exchange. MUTT: ...I'm gonna go. T1J: And that dismissive attitude carried For example he buys her a bicycle as a gift, never learned to ride one. MUTT: I'm not!, it's just riding a bike is ALEXIS: Mmm, is it though? MUTT: I think that most kids learn how to So yeah it just seems like the only reason Well that's not totally fair to Alexis. She's is clearly emotionally invested, but Alexis tries to connect with him but he's MUTT: All I am saying is that, you know, you ALEXIS: I don't NEED to talk about everything! I'm just saying that if I stop talking, who you know. (extended silence) T1J: I don't know if we're supposed to like He's one of those guys that tiptoes the line The beginning of the end was actually when Alexis, and she kinda freaks out about it. By the way, let me know in the comments if ALEXIS: I'm just saying that I think that as a couple okay? We need to communicate more! MUTT: I really didn't think that this was T1J: Should you have to have a conversation your own face? I'm sure it depends on the nature of the relationship. But it's not really about the beard, it's equal partner in the relationship. There's a very clear difference here when They're also very different people, but and liked each other on more than just a physical Meanwhile, Mutt mostly seems annoyed everything Ultimately, they have a silent mutual break soup" scene from Girls. (Alexis nervously laughs) Despite the superficial nature of the relationship, is apparently something new for her. ALEXIS: It's just really weird because I've DAVID: Mmhmm. ALEXIS: Like nothing, like I've been to doctors But this time it's different. Like, he knows me. I let him know me, you know. T1J: She made herself vulnerable to someone heart with care. We've all been there. But something about Mutt and Ted and maybe encouraged Alexis to open her heart in a way And around this point in the show you really is from the rest of the family's. By the 3rd season, The Roses have pretty much not leaving Schitt's Creek anytime soon, so they've tried their best to assimilate Johnny and Stevie have partnered together Moira finagled her way into a seat on the and David opened up his own store with the Patrick. Meanwhile Alexis has had two major breakups and seems disconnected from the rest of the Everyone else started on a low point and glowed but Alexis came into this pretty confident ALEXIS: I think I need a hug or something. T1J: Alexis's story mostly revolves around but we learn a bit about her relationship As I said before she was constantly galivanting and it's clear her parents never seemed her life. As a result, they are much closer to David and it's actually kind of sad, it comes up MOIRA: I've been calling David and he's not JOHNNY: And what about Alexis? MOIRA: There's an idea. Anybody have her number? T1J: But as I implied, I think these experiences that has carried her through life. The problem is in a situation like this when she can't rely on her distracted family. So Alexis awkwardly reaches out to some of cafe manager, who actually becomes a recurring source of TWYLA: So you know what they say--If you can't be in a relationship. T1J: This concept is foreign to Alexis who but she decides that she's going to try As it turns out, that's exactly what she Because it allows her to finally make some and catch up with the progress the rest of The first step is getting her own job, which who happens to need a new receptionist for And as you might imagine, she's never had so she's kind of bad at it at first, TED: Why are there three calls on hold? ALEXIS: Um, I don't know, someone hung up? T1J: but she figures out how to make it work TED: I have to say that I'm impressed. It's not everyone who can tell an old woman AND sell our most expensive marble urn in ALEXIS: Well I'm not totally sure about the to text me back. T1J: But now she's spending more time with much fun she has with him. And she also learns that he might not be as JOAN: I've been trying to set Ted up with ALEXIS: You want me to put in a good word? JOAN: it wouldn't matter, and you know why? ALEXIS: Is she not cute? JOAN: She's not you! You must know that Ted is still stuck on you! T1J: So Alexis has a steady income now, but being a receptionist isn't exactly her She decides to continue her journey towards getting a degree, which is another thing she never found to but there's one major roadblock. ALEXIS: The thing is, I can't go to college. Yet. Because I didn't finish high school. T1J: So there's this weird few episodes is a bit bizarre. I'm pretty sure they have GED's in Canada, So she does that, and then goes on to finish Well she doesn't get, like, a bachelor's but she does finish a four month online public that she has to print out herself. Either way I'd still call it progress. Alexis has always been independent, but at she never had to work for anything, nor did of her actions. Now, for the first time ever, she's become her own life. MOIRA: Alexis, you've worked very hard! And now that you've done this, the world is T1J: She's done a great job of focusing but that can get lonely, And she's getting close with Ted again, but Ted has since gotten into a new relationship. And when Alexis realizes this, she's actually But as she and Ted spend more time together, the new Adult version of Alexis realizes that He's a sweet, caring, handsome, successful Check out how Ted responds when Alexis tells ALEXIS: This might sound crazy, but I almost think I should finish high school. TED: That doesn't sound crazy at all. And truth be told, it took me a minute to T1J: Can you imagine how Mutt would have responded I feel like he would have been a little less She's starting to realize she may have made She even tries to go out and pick up a guy but she realizes she doesn't want any of connection. She even has an opportunity to have more fun but she's completely not into it anymore. ALEXIS: I can see how you would make that But, things have changed for me. MUTT: That's cool. T1J: She realizes she wants Ted. I feel like a typical sitcom would have Alexis but never reveal her true feelings and then fodder for at least 3 seasons. But what she actually does is immediately And she does it with no expectations from It was for her own self-care. ALEXIS: I love you. I'm in love with you. And I know I really don't have any right to and also I know you're in a relationship, um, and I'm happy for you, I really am, I just feel like if I didn't tell you how T1J: Luckily for her, Ted has always been immediately. And again, they don't do the TV thing, where it's like, 'I'm dating this girl am I to do?' No, Ted immediately breaks up with his girlfriend, That's what you should do! I just think it's cool to see fictional examples It's especially rare in sitcoms. By season 5, The Roses have settled into Schitt's family. Johnny and David are running successful businesses, and Moira's acting career has been revitalized They no longer seem like fish out of water characters that already populated the town. The main throughline of this season is Moira musical Cabaret. And that probably sounds like strong jumping-the-shark-vibes, but Schitt's Creek established itself as Near the end of season 5, however, we do get of which is David and Patrick getting engaged. But of more relevance to us right now, Ted ends up getting selected for an exclusive which requires him to move away from Schitt's At the same time, Moira's movie The Crows has become a surprise streaming hit and she marking a big opportunity for her career. A shitty horror movie related to birds that That's gotta be intentional. But anyway this means that if Alexis and Ted one of them will have to essentially put their And once again, they don't milk this situation it's eventually resolved through Alexis and Ultimately, in the saddest scene of the entire ALEXIS: You can't move back here, Ted. You've just been offered the job of your dreams, TED: What about you? What are you gonna do? ALEXIS: This might come as a shock to you, but I can't move to the Galapagos. TED: I wouldn'ta let you even if you tried. You're building something special here, Alexis and you deserve to see where it takes you. I'm so proud of you. ALEXIS: I'm so proud of you. TED: I don't think I've ever gonna meet another ALEXIS: I'm sure there'll be, like, some other TED: To us. ALEXIS: To us. T1J: At the end of the series, Johnny lands the motel business into a franchise. The firm is located in New York, so the Roses after having spent over three years in Schitt's This works out for Alexis as New York is the career as a publicist. But when Moira gets a lucrative job on a reboot she and Johnny decide to move to California And after some heartfelt deliberation, David JOHNNY: So, does this mean you'll be coming ALEXIS: Um...no. I think it means that I'm gonna be flying I've done it before and I can do it again. T1J: Alexis's story ends on kind of a hopeful but unlike the rest of her family who have we don't really know what Alexis's future I wish I could check on her, I hope she's Mostly I was just delighted at how this superficial thoughtful character on the show. I'm a sucker for a Sweetheart. The theme music for Schitt's Creek is kinda going on the show. (theme music plays) I saw a as weary yet regal and proud - refusing It's fun to analyze theme music and intro media, and if you're into that sort of thing, we our streaming service Nebula called Working that. Leo Vader did a video analyzing the intro It's hilarious. LEO VADER: In Season 2, we get mostly the Kevin's intro now starts with: ANNOUNCER: Kevin O'Leary knows how to make LEO: K, getting a little defensive! Barbara's real estate company is now successful-- ANNOUNCER: In the shark-filled city of Manhattan. LEO: Uh, newsflash, it's a borough, not a Even I know that! Real New Yorker over here! And 'I'm walking!' T1J: Super underrated creator by the way. To make it even better if you sign up for you can be comforted by the fact that you creators in the process. Like me. Like individual viewers are really devalued we're basically hoping that YouTube pushes time. But on Nebula, your individual subscription Huge shoutouts to everyone who has already Even if I wasn't on Nebula, I would still It's ad-free, often early release version anyway, as well exclusive content like Working Titles We've also recently launched Nebula Classes, who are interested in learning how to do what If any of that sounds cool to you, consider if you do so using my link below, you will and you can also use that link to get 40% a little over 2 dollars and 50 cents a month. Thank you for watching that video! I really like doing these videos where I follow It's an interesting way to analyze a TV If you have any ideas for other characters in the comments. In the meantime, you can watch my video about there should be a link on the screen. But that's the end of the video. StayHAKO bye bye.