Hey, everyone. Welcome In today's video, I'm through step-by-step a full So by the end of this video, you need to know about affiliate marketing to start the business for yourself. Now, this is going to that moves at a rather quick pace, but it's going to go through There's going to be a lot in this video, totally And what's going to make this one unique is that I'm going to take you on my computer and show you real examples and show you things on my screen so that you can see what Now, before we get into this just to give you some credibility, my name is Greg Gottfried. I've been making videos here on YouTube for a couple years now, affiliate marketing for I learned how to do affiliate before there was much information on it. So I learned a lot of That's what I'm going to A lot of the things that still are not common knowledge. They're not shared very or anywhere else where you learn how to do affiliate marketing. So I think I have some to the table, and I think you're Now, with all of that being said, I do wanna spend a little bit to go over affiliate marketing so that, as we get into real examples of this and different strategies you have a great different strategies work and because you understand the concept of affiliate marketing very well. Now, after breaking of affiliate marketing, some of these strategies that you can use to do affiliate marketing. You'll see the pros and cons of doing affiliate marketing, you would be the most comfortable doing based on what skills you already have. Now, when it comes to for affiliate marketing, in with you the most basic that would be the easiest for a beginner, and I'll work my way all the way up to the most advanced what's out there and you that you could do this business. So sit back, relax, this And if you have any that aren't covered in this video, just let me know down in the comments. So first things first, let's break down what And I wanna break it down in a and what affiliate marketing really is, not the complicated explanation of it. So in the simplest terms, is you partner with a company, they give you a unique referral link, you then share that and when anyone clicks on that link and makes a purchase from that company, you get paid a commission on that sale. Now, you may be wondering, &quot;What is a commission on the Well, this will vary So for instance, you may get they spent at the company, or you might just get a flat rate. So you might get something like $50 for any time anyone makes So essentially you are a for a company, but the is that a ton of big companies out there, almost every big company and they're all free to You don't have to actually be It's basically like a for free and then they get and if they don't generate any no harm, no foul. But if they do generate sales, they'll just get paid So I'll start with a couple examples here to show you what this looks So starting with a which is a big electronic store that you can physically walk if you go to their homepage to the bottom, you'll see that they have all these different buttons or different places on their website. Almost every big company that says Affiliate Program. So all you have to do and you can literally join their You literally just click Sign Up, fill out a little bit of and they will give you that you can start sharing with people and automatically getting commissions on anything that they purchase. So that's one example that's kind of a big box in-person store. But once you get into affiliate marketing, you'll find that there are that you can join. I'll talk on this a little bit But an example of this would be Amazon. So if you go to Amazon, as you can see right here, And then the same concept here, you just hit Sign Up and then and you can be an affiliate for Amazon. Now, what's cool about this is you can get unique referral that that company sells. So when you think about Amazon, Amazon sells so many different products. So you could literally be an affiliate for any different hobby any different topic, any niche, all through the Amazon affiliate program. Now, one more to show you this is a more unique one, and you'll start to see why I'm showing you some of these obscure companies. So this for instance is a Bluehost is one of the biggest It's basically, if you wanna most of the times you're basically someone to and Bluehost is one of the So with that being said, you and you can see again, So you might see that it it might say Affiliates, it We're looking for something like that. But you click on here, and same concept, you click the button to join now and you can get your unique referral link. And this is a case where instead of a commission, This is actually really So you'll see here it says you'll get $65 for each signup or referral. So every time you send them a buyer, you're getting $65 as But what I love about this and what starts to get really is that, if you go to one if you were to refer someone and they go ahead and they say, &quot;Okay, I wanna start with this plan, this is the cheapest So what's awesome about that you referred here can they can check out, and a $65 commission. It seems kind of weird about affiliate marketing, How can someone spend $35, is going to pay you a $65 commission? Well, the reason for that is traditionally speaking, to have their website they typically keep their for three to five-plus years. So Bluehost is going to get that $35 over and over and over again, and they only have to pay us the $65 once. So it's kind of like a win-win. Someone only has to for sending them there, is So I just wanted to show you that, just a couple different before we start getting and moving on from here. Okay, so before we get a couple little rapid-fire, that are probably going to if you're just getting into this business. So the first question here is do you need any prior experience if affiliate marketing today? The short answer here is no. There are so many different different ways that you that even if you're starting you've never had an you can start today and Another fun fact about this, while we're talking about getting started, affiliate marketing is 100% free to start. As you can see with you can join the programs And then the different you can do the marketing on your links for free as well. Okay, the next question, affiliate marketing today, how soon can you start making money? Now, this is going to depend on your pace of how quickly you are and sharing that online, but I would say that it's safe to say that from this in the same This is not one of those and you have to wait until you start making any money. This is one of those business models where you can start seeing So if you are someone who's in a position where you want to start an online business but you don't really know this would be one that I And then within a month, that it's starting to work, just start working on it more content and then you'll Okay, another really common question here is how do you get paid? So how do these companies, when you join their affiliate programs, how do they pay you your commissions? Well, there's a couple different ways. I would say the two most So if you have a PayPal account already, you can literally just send the companies your email address to your PayPal account. And then typically every for whatever sales that you sent them and whatever commissions you are due, they will automatically Now, speaking of the PayPal account, you don't need a business You literally just need a totally free to create, and with them for the PayPal account. You don't have to share Now, the second most that you are paid is by direct deposit. So the same concept, once a month, the companies will automatically but this way it just goes Now again, you don't need to have a business bank account for this. This is something something just use your personal bank account. Now with that being said, through PayPal or you're getting paid through direct deposit, you from anywhere in the world. You don't need to be located You literally be in any country and you can still do affiliate marketing. You'll see what I mean about the different strategies It doesn't matter where you are based. All right, the next thing is do you need a business entity? I know we talked about and your personal bank well, do you need a business The answer here is no, a business entity for this. I would say once you start to in profit, then you might wanna consider starting a business entity for yourself. It's just going to make all coming in a lot more into your personal bank account. Okay, and the last question that I'll put in these rapid-fire do you need to invest This is one of my favorite The affiliate marketing where you can create content and you publish that and that content lives on the So it's literally going to make you passive income commissions where you don't have to you don't have to keep Once you get that out there of work up front, it's making you money for years. This is something that I can I've been doing affiliate And without lifting a finger, a few years ago that's or thousands of dollars every month from a single piece of content. All right, so now that we've gone over what affiliate marketing of these common questions, about the business model. Now let's move on to the fun part here, which is what are the different strategies for doing affiliate marketing, just so you can see which and then you can get started doing it. Okay, so there's three main categories that affiliate marketing Now, this is where some is going to come into. What I'm about to share with you in these three different especially this way. So hopefully this is very valuable. So the first overall strategy on how to do affiliate marketing, which happens to be the is what I call search. So basically when someone goes to Google or they go to YouTube and about a product that we want to show up in that and make a recommendation that we think would fit them So for instance here, if we you can see in the results kind of these suggested products that you can make a purchase right away. We have Google suggesting us an article, which is the &quot;5 Best Dirt Bike Helmets For Track and Trail.&quot; And then just to show you what else is on this search results page, we have videos that are as you can see right here, And then we have different which is a forum. We have different articles that we could read, and this So when someone searches for the best item or they're about to make a purchase, they're coming and they're we wanna show up in these results. Now, I'll start with an article result just to show you what that looks like. So any of these, basically, you can click on this, and where essentially they're going to give us their recommendation of what they think is the best product for us, and then they're going to This is common practice but you'll see things like this. So number one we recommend is this helmet, and here's the link to that So if we click on that link, it instantly redirects us to Amazon. So for me as a buyer, this nothing's different. But when you look at the actual link that it sent us on right here, you can see that the So you can see that this from Dirt Bike Planet, So to us as the buyer, when we come in and we're reading this article, and we go make a purchase, that that's an affiliate link. The price of the helmet is But since I clicked on anything that I go purchase they are going to get a commission on. So you'll see as you go down here, you'll see kind of the and then they'll go on which is number two, again, another link. It's the same concept here. So that would be the first of these kind of search results here. Basically you're writing an on Google for when people that they want to purchase. Now, the second way that you is with videos. Now, this is quickly of doing affiliate marketing. And without getting into the reason why is that these down here that are text-based, well, there's artificial that are coming out just and they're getting where basically you can &quot;Write me a blog post about You hit Enter, and this is a free artificial intelligence going to write you an entire blog post or an entire text-based article that you can then essentially on your website and Now, this is going to keep writing here, but just to show you here, this is why I'm not a huge fan of creating the affiliate marketing websites and creating the written articles anymore because anyone can come a hundred of these and they can basically just take what are these find the affiliate link and and basically go publish And with that being totally free to do and so easy for people to do nowadays, it's making it a lot on this first page here because Google's just sending in articles. So that's why I like these videos. So basically videos show So for those of you Google is the number on the internet. If you look at just these crazy numbers, there's about 99,000 searches So we just typed in best dirt bike helmet, that's happening 99,000 times So there's a ton of traffic going to all of these search result pages. Now with that said, YouTube website on the internet. Now, it doesn't say how per second, but there's more a month on YouTube. So that's totally separate from Google. Those are in addition to each other. But coming back to this example of the best dirt bike helmet, if instead of creating a on your website and if you instead create a video, and you don't even have you can be showing with the camera what that dirt bike helmet you're talking about without If you create that video and you are going to be taking that comes to YouTube, the three But also, and this is you're also going to be of the Google traffic of Because, what not many people know, is that Google and YouTube, they're owned by the same company. So Google is now showing on Google's search results. So you're kind of getting or double the people to Now, when you click on it's going to take you back to YouTube, and then you can see right here, this is the affiliate link right here. So you click on this, it's going and you can make your and you earn your commission the same way as if you had a text article. So without getting too much those are the first two options. They both fall into the search strategy for affiliate marketing. So that brings us into the on how to do affiliate marketing. This one is called social. So rather than using the search approach where people are searching and we are creating that to their search, this to build an audience and then present our affiliate products to people. So to show you an example of this, let's come over to Instagram. This is just a run of that is a perfect example So this is called toponlinefinds. They actually have 487,000 followers. So in order to do this strategy, you kind of do have to build an audience or already have an audience on some kind of social media channel. That's why I say that this one's But if you are someone who has that, this could be a good fit for you. And basically you are just showing photos of different products that So in this case, it is most likely Amazon, and she can be creating that's on Amazon or even 'cause you can join multiple And then rather than writing or creating a video about that product, you're literally taking and then writing in the And then, although a on Instagram specifically, you can't put clickable links So she's going to say, &quot;Click which is right here. You click on this link, it's going to say, &quot;Okay, what are you looking for here?&quot; I came in here, I'm looking And then before you know it, you're on Amazon on her affiliate link, and here's all the products that you see on her social media page. So if you come into here, that you're looking for, now you can go purchase and she's going to get So think of this one as kind of the opposite approach from search. The reason that I like is because you can create to what people are already searching for. With this social method, you're and then you're continually Now, as you continue every time you make a post, you're going to get more and And if they like that product they'll click on your link, they'll go over and make a purchase, and you get your commission. Now, something else that is that you can join as many as you want. You're not limited to You can join 10, 20, 30 all at once. And then you can share It's not something that's exclusive. You don't have to be an And also, with that being said, each company has their own So we already talked about the commission. You could get paid a or the percentage that the person spends on the website after or you could get paid the for anything that they purchase. But something that we is the cookie window or Basically what that is is a timeframe from when someone clicks your link, how long after they've clicked that link are you still going to Now on Amazon, specifically, it's a 24-hour attribution window. So when someone clicks on your link, like I just clicked on her anything that I purchase in she's going to get the commission for. This could be something totally unrelated. So I could close out of I could come back and I could something that I just She's still going to get the commission because it's within the 24-hour window. However, on some of these the attribution window is 30 days, or even 365 days, a full year. So when someone clicks on your link, if they come back in 25 days, or if they come back on in five, six, seven months from now and they decide that they on their own, they don't and click your link again, you are still going to That's kind of the beauty What makes it so passive on your link, they have where they can come back on and you're still going So that is the second overall strategy for affiliate marketing. We've covered search, and now let's get into the last strategy, which is the most advanced, So in this strategy, you affiliate programs and your own money on advertising in front of the right people when they're ready to make a purchase. Now, this strategy is by far strategy for affiliate marketing. Many people that I know and have been doing it for years still haven't even of affiliate marketing, just it's so hard, there's a lot of risk here. But I want you to be aware so that if you do have this skillset, you can absolutely do it this way. Now, the most common example or on Facebook. So basically, if you type basically using the search approach, so if we started with best electric bike, you can see two things here. So first, there's an that says, &quot;Best Electric Bike of 2023.&quot; If we click on that, right to a company that Now, this ad is actually they're selling their own products, but you as an affiliate And knowing that, let's as your flat rate commission, as long as you can get and make a purchase with on that advertising, you are going to have somewhat Now, another way you're going to see this is with an actual video. So if you click on the first or any of these real videos this ad that's going to before this video is being So in most cases, what is an advertisement about electric bikes. So it's targeting someone who is coming in trying to find the best electric bike, trying to get you to click on their links so that you go make a And then again, the same concept here. The person running that ad is less money than the amount of flat rate or percentage commission when people do make a purchase. Now, you will see these and you will also see them on Facebook. That is the number one and that you're going to see these ads. When you are on Facebook, the there is just as you're you're going to see an That's where this is coming into play. So with that being said, the is so advanced is, when we basically creating and posting those on Google and even the next strategy of an audience and you're both of those are entirely free to do. You don't have to pay anything and put it out there for people to see. And then people will find When you get into this spend category where you're spending every time you're trying to get you have to pay. So when you look at these there is really no risk to them. Anytime someone comes and they you get paid a commission. But when you look at right off the bat, you have to spend money and you have to hope that and it's targeting the right let's say, 100 or 1,000 people So as your costs start to build up, you wanna make sure that that has a commission that you've spent. Now, just for reference this spend approach, the if you're doing this right, about 20%. Now, I say that just so you are aware of what that looks like, although that is a very advanced way to do affiliate marketing. You will typically see that approach are spending in advertising, and they have everything kind of dialed in here and Now, with that being said, something that I've absolutely you should know before you get started with affiliate marketing you choose here is really on your lifestyle as you're So for instance, if you are and you are creating content, whether that is a written and you're posting that on the internet, that is stress free. You have no risk there, once it'll live on the internet and people are just It's basically you are are already searching for. Also, every dollar that is just straight profit because you don't have to be Now, as you move into the social approach for affiliate marketing, there's a little bit more stress here because you have to and giving your audience a or stay followed to your social account. Also, you're not going to of organic traffic like It's more of you're building an audience and then you continually So the lifestyle starts more stressful there and stay on top of it. And then once you get for affiliate marketing, that comes with a very You only have a 20% margin there. And in order to make money, So you're always going to How are they performing? Do Are they starting to perform worse? Do I need to optimize things? There's a lot that comes with Now, you're probably saying, if it's so high stress?&quot; Well, the reason is, once and a really good video, So you can go from $500 a day to 5,000, in some cases, $50,000 and you're just going to get 20% of that, as long as everything stays the same. So there you have the three strategies for doing affiliate marketing. You've got the search, and you've got the spend. If you are just starting I highly recommend starting in the search. Search is simply going for you to get started as a beginner, and it's super low risk. So I know this is already but if you wanna learn more details on how to do the whole search strategy, I'll put a link down in the description. So guys, that's it for this video. If you have any questions or anything that you're still wondering, let me know down in the comments, and I'd be happy to help you out.