So, during 2020, I had like a lot and I to better myself in some way and I didn't, I didn't. I worsened myself quite a bit. I'm not responsible, If there's an important I'm a constant Sir, do you have your I haven't seen that in 30 years. Sir, it's an important document. Well, then you guys on a gum wrapper. Okay, at least the a book out of their thing. It's got pages and I lost that one, too, Sir, do you have your My birth certificate? That document is 54 years old. I also don't have the You can get a new birth you just gotta but you can get one. I lose them all the time. I'm like can I just Is there a birth certificate of the month club I could join? Then they start with Do you have a I never thought of one. The sedan with a plan. My friend told me if that's the government's a chip inside of you and if that's the case, I mean, that's gonna make the DMV a place for everybody. Sir, we need to I'm pretty sure I got my shot in my left arm. Just get your chip reader Yeah, it'll beep like a If I could ask a favor I forgot my Apple ID if No, I tried three times and it locked me out. Irresponsible, man. I'm not a good driver. I hit stuff. Cars. Primary, right? I spend a lot of but I use it. My friend was like, in one accident in I'm like, &quot;Well, how do you Mine works overtime, you know.&quot; I pay a lot, I should pay a lot, but I want more from First of all, they say an insurance card. Stop calling it a card. It's a piece of paper, okay. I want a card, $3,500 I you can afford to At least laminate the card. The library laminates I don't think the made $3,500 last year. They don't send you a card. They send you a piece of paper and it's got a dotted line on it with a picture of a scissors. No, no, no, you cut it. I'm not cutting it. Not for $3,500. You can hire a couple for that kind of money. And if I do cut it, I'm not cutting it I'll cut whatever shape The cop's gonna be like, Swan, is that a swan, is Did you make a swan, son?&quot; If you get a piece that's got a picture just know you're doing business with some greedy dirt bags. At least back in the day, they did a thing called Remember that? That was their way of saying, hey, we're not gonna cut it, but we'll get you started. It was a fair deal. Each side gave a little bit. You felt like you were being There is no more perforation. It doesn't exist. The only thing left is toilet paper and I'm if Charmin starts on their product, I'm gonna have a real yeah, yeah, yeah. That's where I draw that line and I'm not talking Somebody in here is they would give you a card every six months, the insurance company a plastic card. It looked like a credit card. - Yep. - You'd put it in your wallet, you felt like a man. Now if I get pulled over, I have to unfold a it's looks like a like please excuse Gregory from any bad driving. He lacks concentration, There's a not from He doesn't lack he lacks brains. He's an idiot. He can't drive. They're just greedy, Hi, this is Stan in finance and I was running the numbers and we only made 178 We're gonna have to save Here's what I'm gonna Send them paper. Put a scissor picture on there. They think they a craft Then a couple of years later, hi, it's Stan, I Don't send them paper, send them an email, they Pretty soon, it's gonna be like if they want a card, tell 'em type something up, write the word of a Bounty paper towel. We don't care, we Tell 'em it's for I read my car insurance card. On the front of it, the fault of an accident with anybody except or your insurance agent. And I remembered it, but I got it mixed up with my health insurance card. I was at the doctor, he was like, &quot;What's wrong.&quot; I'm like, &quot;I'm not I'm not talking. You guys are great, So, I didn't used to do this, like this, this wasn't I was in the peanut butter game. You think that's funny, ma'am? I guess you've never heard of a little thing called lunch. I was part of that. I sold JIF, I sold JIF There's a reason why in Lexington, Kentucky. JIF is made here, yeah. JIF is the best it's the best peanut butter. Our motto choosy moms. - [Together] Choose JIF. - Choosy moms, not Let's say maybe your mom and goes to the to pick up your If that's the case, by That's a better product Peter Pan, come a boy who refused to grow up. Maybe he couldn't grow up 'cause he was eating that named after a cartoon character. Peter Pan can fly, 'cause There's no nutrients in Peter. Now listen, I'm a talk a lot It's an important subject, but I need to address It's been a rough - Yeah. - If you guys don't we had a problem. Some people, barely got some salmonella, okay, and they traced it and JIF did the right thing. They pulled it off the they pulled it all off and I feel bad about it. I mean, I didn't I wish I could go back 20 years when I worked there if you guys are with some sort of a raw Don't. It's a bad idea. And just so you know, with Peter Pan, they had They had a recall, salmonella. Just this year, Skippy in their peanut butter and they had to pull and you guys are it's never happened with Yeah, that's 'cause like 30 jars of that You know what I'm talking about, It's got like an inch looks like a science project Well, Greg that's how peanut Well, then cover it up. Nobody wants to see that. Greg, your peanut butter that's why it doesn't do that. Yeah, that's exactly Maybe it was trying to preserve Greg, you just take a knife and you stir the jar and the oil goes away. Oh, now I'm supposed to help Why don't you just hand me a bag of peanuts and I'll smash them up myself. Me eater, you maker. Now listen, listen, there's and, you know, your mom made when you were growing up. If that's the case, obviously, you were homeschooled. That's why you're homeschooled. Your mom did not want and sit next to the JIF kid and have that kid be like, hey, there's another way to live. And maybe you're a parent, okay, maybe you're a parent and you force your child to and if that's the case, I'm not gonna tell you I am gonna gently suggest that you at least expose them to some different peanut butter, you know, before you send because I don't know an organic peanut butter It is not pretty. Okay, these kids, they then they go off to college, they have one bit six weeks later, on a park bench with Nutter We got a lot of that We didn't want it. That's blood money right there. We took it, we took it. Now the company was called Procter They don't own JIF anymore. You know who owns JIF. - Smucker's. - Smucker's. Smucker's owns peanut If these guys ever Now the government will step in. That's an illegal monopoly. That's Sherman I mean, you can't The country was all right, buddy. I mean, I'll be honest, Ma'am, I was. I was a big deal in All right, I was that I'm sure you'll remember. I was part of the team that launched the first, low sugar peanut butter It was called Simply JIF, it was targeted I wanted to call it I liked it. I always felt guilty the same for crunchy as if you think about it, the crunchy like, we didn't finish making that. If you went to the plant, the crunchy guys are probably and the creamy guys are still The savings should've and I still lose sleep over it. I'm a purist, I'll just I'm a peanut butter purist. I think there should be creamy and crunchy and that's There's a lot of new They're getting fancy. I don't care for it. Like Peter Pan has honey If I know those guys, they're just grinding up bees and stirring them in there. And, I mean, even they're doing some I mean, they're getting fancy. They have an Omega That's fish oil. They're putting fish and they're wondering What kind of fish was Are you guys not seeing I mean, I know a lot of stuff. I mean, just so you know, you the main size in peanut That's what the deals are. That's where the That's where we go There's a 28-ounce, but the deals are, If you went to Kroger right now and you bought an it'd probably cost You know, back to school, If that happens, stock up. It's not coming around I ran a deal one 200 Kroger stores, Yeah, yeah, I did that. It'll never happen Even the bad moms Mama, this peanut Don't get used to it, boy. I ain't givin' up cigarettes and I ain't givin' up Red Bull so when it's gone, it's gone. That was an unchoosy mom. I'm sure you've all at the grocery at their kid or something. Like choosy, I wasn't choosy I ain't about to start You better put that brand on the shelf or I might choose to leave you in the parking lot like I did your brother. You didn't know you I'll come back to peanut butter. It's like I told you, you know, I had a lot of time and I started thinking from peanut butter to comedy. When I was in college, I And it was, it was owned by He was 100% New York Italian and he owned a bar in It seemed a little witness You know, nobody Freddy was good to me. He treated me like a son, In my senior year of college, I went to him and said, &quot;Fred, I think when I graduate, I wanna be a standup comedian.&quot; He was like, &quot;Greg, You're a wrestler, You know, comedy and wrestling, they're very different things.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Yeah, on wrestling the audience.&quot; &quot;Let me make a couple of calls, I can't promise you And then he did, he He set me up with and he was gonna in the Chicago club scene, but I told you guys at Procter &amp; Gamble. I chickened out, you know, and I had to tell Freddy. Like, &quot;Freddy, I took a &quot;Greg, why would you do that? You're gonna be bored, Greg. I just fell asleep between &quot;Nah, Fred, it's a good job. They're giving me &quot;Yeah, they'll give you That's how you trick You really wanna sell soap I'm like, &quot;I'm not selling soap. I'm actually selling &quot;Oh, why didn't I mean, that's an entirely Here I think you're but you're selling That's gonna be a lot I mean, think of all the with peanut butter. I mean, creamy one day, Greg, get in your company car and drive it off a cliff. At least you'll of fun before you hit I worked there for 10 I loved it. I told you guys I did, but I could never get comedy and one day I did a crazy thing. Like, I went into and I just quit and 'cause I knew he that would understand. I go, &quot;Freddy, I did it. I quit P&amp;G, I'm going &quot;Greg, why would you do that, that's a good job, man, they gave you a company car.&quot; &quot;You said it was boring.&quot; &quot;I said it a long I mean, you're not Your life's almost over. You're supposed I mean, get a hobby, You don't quit your job. I mean, comedy's a People don't need comedy, Greg. You know what they There's a lot of stability I tell you what, you know. Use your head, come on.&quot; I still talk to Freddy I love him, you know. But I hear him every day That's the voice, you guys have a voice when That's Freddy. When you regret something. I woke up the other day and I was like, ugh, &quot;Yeah, of course you you ate an entire at 11:30 at night. You shoved the whole in six minutes, Greg. I think you ate the rubber band that holds the legs Greg, you get Don't eat an entire Come on, those things are made for a family of five, not one many standing naked in the front of the refrigerator at 11:30 at night into his fat face, over God knows what. You make me sick. I hope you saved the wishbone, you could break it apart and wish you were somebody I wanna be clear that That's me talking This is what goes on I should probably I should get some I could get help, I could, like I didn't tell you guys, I have health insurance. Like I have it and I pay a lot. Like it goes up every year. I didn't even do anything and it like, I pay a lot for and but guess what they give me. - A card. - I got a health insurance card. It's great, man, it's plastic, full on plastic. It's flexible, it's very nice, but I mean for what I'm paying, I want more than a plastic card. I want like a guy. I want a full-time health guy. Just to follow me around, in case something comes up. I'll be at Walgreens. Mr. Warren, what Tell 'em about it, Tony. It's my guy. Pick up some toothpaste, Tony. I'll be in the car. I got a guy. Every time I call my the first thing they say Well, I didn't know I'm definitely not getting What group did you put me in? I'm guessing by how you put me in a group with some very unhealthy people. Like, I wanna meet the group. I wanna meet 'em. I wanna go to the group meeting. I think my group is gonna be me, some guy eating a that monkey that in the North Korean zoo. And a corpse, that's We're not an insurable group. My health insurance you know, Cigna. I've noticed a lot of these end in the letters N-A. You know, it's like That stands for, hey, I have Cigna Bronze, or whatever, that's my level. And it sounds pretty good, like bronze, that's third But my insurance in the Olympics if in the Olympics. In the insurance game, bronze means the worst. Every time I use it, I hear Freddy in &quot;Hey, Greg, put Why don't you show them It's gotta be better than Yeah, you should've kept You might have silver.&quot; I tried to use it. I called this podiatrist. I go, &quot;Hey, I got They were like, &quot;Dr. bronze level insurance.&quot; I was like, &quot;Okay, I'll She was like, &quot;No, no, that does take bronze I was like, &quot;Wait a minute. Different doctors within the same practice take I'm betting that means they are different and I'm not getting My podiatrist is just who's like licking my feet. Playing this little piggy. Like what are you doing, man. Hey, sorry, brother, what did you expect, I'm the custodian, man.&quot; By the way, like podiatrist, that just seems weird. You went to like and you just wanna look at feet. What percentage of are foot weirdos? I was say right And if you're a foot weirdo, you have a lot of If you're a foot weirdo and you did well in If you're a foot weirdo and you flunked I talk about this stuff. I had some health It wasn't like overly serious, but it was bothering me. I had some stomach And I went to the doctor, He gave me some pills and I went to like they gave me pills, gave and I started getting depressed. And my family's like, a holistic doctor.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Oh, you're I'm not going to My stomach hurt and I was like, I'm And I went and I didn't I never been to a witch before. Right off the bat, She goes, &quot;Call me Call me Dr. Olivia.&quot; I was like, that does Like, if I was in for the prosecution I'd be like like this guy, this guy is not a But here's the thing. I'll call Dr. Olivia whatever 'cause she is a She healed me. You wanna go nicknames, Like I love, I love Dr. Olivia. She changed my life. Now I need to tell you, which is, they charge, like she's expensive. Witches charge and 'cause every time I there's like three pretty this nice desk, &quot;Greg Warren, it is so nice to see you.&quot; Aw, this is gonna cost me. Pretty girls being nice to you? That's usually very expensive. I've been to the regular doctor, that is not how it works. You walk in, they about a half an inch. Sit down, fill out the forms, if you have any You're like aw. She doesn't sound She sounds like a $12 So Dr. Olivia charges, you know. She does. But I was like, okay, So I send it to Cigna and She's a witch. I'm like, she's a She's like Stevie Nicks. They won't pay her, Now part of the reason they did not go to med school. Just hear me out. By training, she's a but she spent 15 as she could about and it worked. I went to the med school guys. She beat them in a Okay, fair and square. I don't care if she learned it at clown college, They won't pay her. They won't pay her I gotta pay her and I gotta pay the insurance company and I'm going broke and I think the only solution is I'm just gonna have to go to med school. It's gonna be cheaper. She's not gonna wanna go. I'm like, you go, And if I'm paying, I wanna Greg, you're not Well, you got a D in I don't know what med I'm assume it's body parts. I mean, here's the thing, I bet you in 20 years, they're gonna pay The insurance company It's like back in the day they were probably we don't pay for that. We pay for the pint of whiskey and the stick that and that's it. And I gotta pay for others, I gotta pay for You know what that is? It's like probiotics. There's a war in my stomach between good bacteria and I'm sure you've My good bacteria costs But here's the good news. I read the bottle, each pill on the bottle contains 360 so per colony, very affordable. I'm getting a deal. I'm getting a deal on I tip her. Hey, here's an extra 50, Okay, so you guys can of holistic medicine now. I'm a believer, but I Be careful. Like holistic medicine Like over here, you proven stomach fixer, okay. Over here, you have Hey, if you get a cold, don't take cold medicine. Chop up some onions, wrap it around your put a sock over it, go to That's a real video, It's embarrassing, I did it probably I know, I just got carried away and I travel every week, okay. Do you know how hard with an ink pen in a hotel room. And the grocery Like sometimes I'm I gotta go buy a bag of Funyuns at the hotel gift shop, crunch them up and I get up to go to the bathroom in I got up one night. You know how hard it is to walk on onions and garlic I fell down. I fell down, okay, and there was a and I saw myself. It was ugly. It was very pale skin. And underwear and all over the place and all I could hear was, &quot;Greg, what are you doing, man? You're walking around on your feet.&quot; So, yeah, I just wanna say, like since, you know, I'm a big fan of You know, they're heroes, doctors, nurses, is Are you a nurse? You're a nurse? You're all nurses. Are you a registered nurse? Are you all registered nurses? What are you? - A mom. - Okay, a mom, a proud mom So you're both That's a big deal. - That's a very big deal, like, you know, she to be a registered nurse, okay, and she outranks almost and she makes more It's a big deal. Just no offense, ma'am. It doesn't sound It sounds like oh, you Like one time I registered in a drawing, it took seven and then the one below LPN, that's a licensed- - Practical nurse and like You make more money you went to more but no offense, ma'am, They have a piece of paper that says they can nurse where you just, I don't know, signed a clipboard at And they're practical. That is something in a medical professional, Okay, like if I hurt my toe and went to the LPN, she's be like Band-Aids, you'd be like cut it off. Cut it off? That's not practical. Well, I'm not a practical And then the other nurse, the only one that's above you, that's the nurse and they can do doctor stuff and it seems a It feels like one man, we are running Lisa's the smartest nurse, let her do the doctor stuff. Did she go to med school? No, but she's smart. She just doesn't but like she could do. We only gotta pay her like we can't afford a doctor, like just let her She keeps her mouth shut. It feels like every time I call the doctor's office, into seeing the I'm like, I'm sick, man, The doctor can see No, man, I'm sick. Oh, the nurse She is just as good. All right, well, when Five minutes. Five minutes? If she's so good, why She's on her way to You can't take it back, sir. There are no take backs You touched her. I didn't touch anybody. This is a dangerous precedent. I've been to a nurse It's just, like I don't wanna be on the operating table one day and be like, hey, Surgeon, eh, surgeon What? Is she good? Oh, she very good, sir. You familiar with that Yes. She's seen every episode. Yeah. I need to, I need to say like I was making fun of them, but they did a great they really did. I had to get tested, I don't I was doing this, I'd get tested and they Like, you know, no questions, they paid for it. The only time they and it wasn't their fault. It was just so crowded, The only place I could get It wasn't a bad deal. It was $79 for a COVID test, $99 for a negative COVID test. You get what you pay for. So, listen, I know on everybody here. It was maybe a I have a condition. I'm a surface toucher. I always have been. I don't know if you remember, in the beginning they're like you cannot touch surfaces and I was like, all of them? That's gonna be a problem 'cause I'm a leaner, you know? And when you lean, you touch I would be elbow deep from Wuhan China if it off my arches. Greg, what are you doing? You're touching the I know, man, but I'm tired. I like to sit and lean. I like to sit and lean back. You ever been to a restaurant and they have a bar I'm like, whoa, we're I came to have a meal, not strengthen my core. Seems like, I don't know, Starbucks, it kind of broke. Like, I love 'em. I went there twice today. It's my favorite place. I love it, but eh, there's 25 people in line. There's 100 cars and two teenagers It's the only people There was a manager, but he wasn't working. He was interviewing somebody. Fine, but it was Finally I walked up, I was like, hey, I don't know but look around, you're hired. What could he possibly Have you ever Okay, are you sorry? The funnest time I had during the pandemic actually It was relatively, I middle of the pandemic, And my friend and I went Nikki Glaser, you All right, all right, like this is my show. She's great. We actually went to She went way after me, but. She's great, but we We were like raising 'cause they had a rough time and we had masks and stuff on. It was fun and we And I don't know sort of in the pandemic, but they did not want you They put signs up, there's probably COVID Like cones and skull I knew, like the staff has to So what I would do, and I'd go right like right to the bathroom. By the time they knew I was like base, Like you can't, can't get me. Already peeing. So I go and I come &quot;I gotta go, too.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Nikki, just go.&quot; She's like, &quot;I don't I don't wanna get yelled at.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Nikki, just go. They're not gonna Finally I convinced her. &quot;Just walk fast, look down, act like you know They're not gonna say anything.&quot; so she finally does. She walks all the way down and she gets one step and I go, &quot;Ma'am, you're not And the Starbucks girl goes, &quot;He's right, ma'am, you I was like, oh, this work I swear I didn't She was like three and I was like Then she was two steps. I was like I don't wanna And she was one you can make new friends. It's COVID, you don't But, now I'm back to I missed it. I been in some cool places. I was in Alaska. Have you guys ever been? Like if you never been, go. They don't have poison There's no poison ivy. It was the most I was running around naked. But they have bears, They told me if I I had to buy this bear spray. It's a real thing. It cost $60. Just so you guys it's not like OFF! You're supposed You don't apply it to yourself like regular insect spray, which they should on the can. All it said was So I was hiking up there and I didn't see The first day I 'cause of that spray, but I didn't see any bears. Then I was looking online and the TSA said to bring that bear 'cause it's a weapon. It was $60 and I So with two days left, I was like somebody's I spent a lot of money I'm gonna use it. I wound up, I sprayed this Trust me, she had a lot She was stumbling around. She was reaching for Anybody would've She grabbed the I went on a whale watching trip. It wasn't one of the main, it was discounted. Okay, it was a night which, I see what I got a good deal, okay. And when we got there was a lot of Apparently we were the whole time, yeah, yeah. I couldn't see them, I heard them. I think I heard Is this what a &quot;Hi, I'm a whale.&quot; Sort of sound like the guy So, you know, one of the pandemic was a little time with the people that you love. You got to spend time I got to hang with my dad more. My dad, he was a teacher and a football coach and his hobby is woodworking. He can make all kinds All kinds of stuff, But during the pandemic, he was doing his woodworking and he cut his finger off. And this is not the I was like, Dad, we can only They're not salamander tails. They're not coming back. He cut his finger off. Where did he go? Urgent care. I was like, &quot;Dad, your finger off kind If you lose a body part, you don't show up All right, like go But he went there and They cleaned him up and are like, &quot;Hey, he has and we don't do that here. We can give him a flu shot.&quot; You know, like, but- So they found a surgeon and me and my dad went that night and, you know, there was forms to fill out and my dad's got half a finger, so I gotta fill them out and the first question Now, my dad has had He's 77. He has had a lot of stuff and, you know, he's one of you'll ever meet. I'm pretty sure that he has that he's so to be safe these days when I get that question, I check them all. I check them all. Sir, it says here your Yeah, yeah. I think it's the left one. The second question and my dad, like a bunch of pills, you know. So I go, &quot;Dad, I don't He goes, &quot;Ah, I don't Just put none.&quot; &quot;I can't do that, Dad. I checked a lot of stuff It's gonna get suspicious.&quot; Oh, 76 diseases and just My dad has this dog 'cause I travel all the time, but during the pandemic, I got to hang out I love Red, so I was and we walked by and she just starts She's pees on the She comes out, don't don't let him do that. If he pees on those bushes, the other dog's gonna walk by and they're gonna smell it and they're gonna pee I was like, well, how do My dog is not a leader, Like I saw my dog follow a He's not exactly capable And by the way, those for seven years, okay. You're telling me he's the to ever pee on the bushes. I peed on the bushes I didn't want to. I think a buy peed and I was compelled, you know. Yeah, my dad has always of anything I do. He was supportive of the He didn't really understand it and he's like, &quot;You're I'm like, &quot;I am, Dad.&quot; He's like, &quot;Ah, they for a long time at How'd your sales call go? You guys wanna carry JIF. We already do, pleasure It's not sales, son.&quot; &quot;No, Dad, it's not about it's about like what how do they promote it, how do they shelve it.&quot; &quot;Shelve it? Just like I Your brother got a job at the airport. What's that make I sold other stuff besides JIF. I sold Duncan Hines cake mixes. Nobody's impressed. We had the number We had the number one We had the number three frosting and that was embarrassing and we did some market research and we found out people were baking Duncan and frosting them with Betty it's not funny, sir. That's like saying, but I'm gonna have The other frosting was Like the doughboy, was called Funfetti. Funfetti, you know. Funfetti's a fraud. They had like 70 items, 68 Like it was all vanilla frosting with candy in it. Vanilla frosting Vanilla frosting Vanilla frosting You don't need all those. Well, my daughter Well, your daughter needs When I was a kid we had variety. On your birthday, cake. On the other days, no cake. I sold Crisco shortening. That was a good product. We had a hard time coming up with like a health The best we could do is But we introduced the to happen in the shortening and oil category, Crisco sticks. It was a big deal. It was a very big deal. Basically, we took shortening and we put it in the form We wrapped it in foil, we put tablespoon markings on it so you could cut it a measuring cup all greasy and people were like, &quot;Greg, with all that extra packaging, it probably costs I was like way, way, way more. Let's be honest, so you're You do not have a lot of Like spend your money. Bake a cake and put instead of candles, I sold orange juice. We had the Citrus Hill brand. Most of you guys probably We weren't there long, but everything in orange juice today, Back in the day, back in the day there was a cardboard and to pour it, the top and it go all and then somebody on the side. You're welcome. Yeah, yeah, so next a glass of Minute pour a little out. To show respect for the OG OJ. But my passion It's important to me. What kind of peanut - JIF. - JIF, yeah, I could tell, I can see these things. What about you, sir? - JIF, yeah, yeah, you're - You, sir, what do you eat? - I don't. - You don't eat peanut butter? Okay, you can go. We don't need you here, sir. You just don't like it. How about you, sir? - JIF, yeah. Anybody eat Skippy, You eat Skippy, ma'am? You eat Skippy? Stop, hey, hey, you don't. You eat Skippy and you - I do. - Ma'am, you have COVID. It affects your You have the Skippy variant and you better get that What about you, sir? - Peter Pan. - Boo. - I don't like you, sir. I respect your confidence. Well, at least, you know, at least you eat peanut butter. I've heard a lot of don't eat peanut butter. My son has a peanut allergy. We don't keep it in the house. Well, we do a lot of and we found out that I like almond butter. Do you? I mean, you're a hippy. That's fine, hippy. Go ahead and eat or smoke it, whatever I don't know how you buy it, 'cause from what I understand, the grocery stores You didn't buy it, did you. You got it from one at a Fish concert. They pulled it out of one of their hobo bag, it was in a bottle that used you know, probably from some skirt of lawn clippings, hippy. Fine, hippies gotta I've heard this, You're eating a Just put a Hershey bar in You can prefer it, but don't By the way, check You're about two of from a permanent ride on the type-2 peanut Now, listen, you know. I said a lot of stuff here. I said some bad stuff I said some bad And I meant it. I hate 'em. I hate 'em, but I respect They've been in the You know, they've been there. They were there before JIF. I respect 'em. There's some peanut they can just jump in the game. Like Reese's. Remember when Reese's we're a peanut butter? I'm sure they were thinking hey, we're a candy bar as a main ingredient. How hard could it be to Real hard, Reese's, okay. You gotta find to stand on your own. You don't have chocolate We're not playing We are feeding Just be a candy, Be a candy. You don't see Ring in the jewelry business. I love JIF, you know. I love peanut butter. There's only one product almost as much and Pringles is a great product. We introduced it in 1968. It came out strong and then the government They said hey, you're You're made up of corn and soy and wheat and potatoes. You can't call You have to call And people are like, The government was like you know they're not made And people are like, yeah, we kind of figure that when they were uniformly of each other in the perfect You know those gummy Not real oranges, Pringles are great for Number one, we - Whoo! - You ever go on a picnic One banana rubs up against it, you got potato dust. At Pringles, we built around our chips. Number two, efficient I'll say it again, efficient use of space. You ever open a can of Pringles, wall to wall, floor to ceiling chip, chip, chip, chip, chip. You ever open up a You just bought air. That stuff does not it belongs in the balloon aisle, 'cause that what you bought, a blown up balloon with four You got ripped off. They should put a scissor Thank you very much, thank you. Thank you. - Thank you very much.