This week I studied Huangqiao Shaobing, which is really crispy and delicious. Listen carefully and see what are the differences between the two Shaobings at the beginning. Today in this video, I will reveal to you a newly discovered knowledge point. It is also unintentional. I discovered this in time and then I can make crispy snacks. If you want it to be crispy, it will be crispy. If you want it to be crispy , it will be crispy. Be sure to bookmark this video first, otherwise I'm afraid you won't be able to find it in the future. Huang There are many types of fillings for bridge sesame cakes . In this video, three kinds of fillings are made. Shredded radish filling, sugar heart filling, and pork floss filling. They are all classic fillings. Add some oil to a small pot. First, put the dried shrimps into a small pot and stir-fry this. The shrimp skin is used to make shredded radish filling. I fried it for 5 minutes. I thought it was a waste of time. Then I put it in the oven and baked it at 150 degrees for 15 minutes without preheating the oven. Then I opened the oven and set the time to wait for him. Take it out after baking , but because your own ovens are different , you have to check it halfway to make sure it doesn't burn. At this time, you can put the water skin on it and put it on when you usually make puff pastry. Isn't it called water skin? This one is called water skin. Because it is basically a traditional recipe that does not add oil. I added a little bit of it to make the dough softer and more moist. It will not break easily when it is baked. If you don't want to add oil, you can leave it out but water is not required. Add a little more to make the dough softer. I tried making it without adding oil and it was pretty good. I have actually made Huangqiao Shaobing several times. The watery skin of Huangqiao Shaobing is made using the method of hot fermented cakes . To make hot noodles and leaven noodles, according to the recipe, first put the lard and flour together , then pour in boiling water , scald the noodles, stir evenly and stir into a flocculent shape , then let it cool and then add dry yeast and ice water or Then knead the dough with room temperature water until the surface is smooth . If you are making it in winter, you can add room temperature water. If you are making it in summer, it is best to add ice water. I mixed them manually to form a dough, then put it in the chef's mixer at setting 5 and kneaded for 10 minutes and then turned to 6. Knead for 3 minutes until it reaches this state. If the surface temperature is relatively high, it will not be easy to knead it smooth . Anyway, try to knead it as smooth as possible. Doesn't it also need to ferment? During the fermentation, some gluten will be produced during the fermentation. Bake the shrimp skin and put it aside. Let it cool aside and while it is fermenting, make the stuffing. Peel and grate the radish. After the water boils in a pot , put the shredded radish in and cook for 30 seconds . Then take it out . After it cools, squeeze out the water and add a handful of coriander. Add a little lard to the green onions, then a little fried dried dried shrimps, add sugar and salt, and finally add some pepper and sesame oil to prevent water from coming out , then mix them well. If your chives have more moisture, add them before wrapping. Put the green onions in and mix them well. If you don't like carrot fillings, you can also make some sweet fillings. If you like sweet fillings, you can also make some sugar fillings . Pork suet, fine sugar, honey, sugar osmanthus or caramel, you can mix them well and set aside. There is also a meat floss filling as a spare. I watched a documentary and an old store in Huangqiao Town introduced that the most traditional filling is one sweet and one salty. The salty one is the meat floss filling, the sweet one is the white sugar filling. All the ingredients are put together and mixed well. Onion. I Don't you always ask me what brand of meat floss I buy before putting it in ? Recently I found a particularly good light-flavored meat floss without any additives . This meat floss is quite fragrant and crunchy, and has a light, slightly sweet and salty taste . It's better to suggest that you make it yourself. If you are lazy, you can buy this one. The price is a little more expensive. In today's video, I will show you how to make 3 kinds of stuffing. You can choose any one or two. Anyway, my favorite is pork floss. And stuffed with shredded radish, then make the pastry. I just use low-gluten flour and lard and mix it evenly. If you want to be more particular, you can put it on the table and knead it. Knead it very, very finely. There are no gnocchi at all, so I won't be too particular about it today . I'll be more particular about it next time. It's fine if the dough is doubled in size. It doesn't need to be very big because the sourness will be too obvious if it's too big. It's possible to knead with alkali. Then knead with alkali. If it is not kneaded evenly, it will be really tragic. It will be twice as big as it is when you press it and it will spring back slightly. Then roll it out directly. Basically, the filling is done and the dough has risen. There is really no delay in rolling it out until it is crispy. About 2.5 times the size , then put the pastry on it and wrap it up. Make sure to pinch the end tightly for him. It's okay to leave a little more, because you still have to roll it out. Once you roll it out , there won't be that much. If you leave less , The pastry may leak out when you roll it out. This dough is relatively soft. Sprinkle a little flour on the chopping board and roll it out to a thickness of about 5-6 mm. Roll it into a rectangle, then fold it in three and then 90 degrees. Turn it over and sprinkle some flour before continuing to roll it out. Roll it out to a thickness of 5 mm and then stop. The operation of lard is much simpler than that of butter. There is no oil leakage or softness. Of course, it is not room temperature at all. If it is so high , it may be easy to leak if the room temperature is too high. Roll it out to about 5 mm, then roll it up from top to bottom, press it slightly, and divide it into 12 equal portions because the authentic Huangqiao Shaobing is very small. I made it today. This method is also quite authentic. I will call it the authentic home version of Huangqiao Shaobing, because the old stores use fermented fermentation to make it at home. I just use commercial yeast, but the steps are basically the same. There is one more step. Different from most old stores, they may use the method of making small puff pastry. I have also tried it because it is made from yeast dough and is quite soft. Small puff pastry is still a bit difficult for us to make at home. Large puff pastry is easier to operate and divided into pieces. Cover and let it rest for 10 minutes , then roll it out. Fold the two ends where the puff pastry will be exposed, and fold it to the middle. Then roll it out again. When rolling out, make it thicker in the middle and thinner on the sides. Then put the filling if you want to make the puff pastry. If the layers look more obvious, you can't put too much skin in the filling and you can't roll it out too thin. If you want to make this shredded radish filling If it tastes more fragrant, add a little more pork suet and wrap it in while pressing the filling and then turning the skin slowly to wrap it up. As long as the filling is not too wet, there is basically no problem. Pinch the interface tightly, but it doesn't matter even if you don't. The shredded radish will not leak out. Press the interface underneath and arrange it into a small oval. Brush a layer of egg wash on the surface and dip it in white sesame seeds to form a dough. The meat floss filling is ready. Before wrapping, add chopped green onion and mix well. Then you can wrap the meat floss filling. It is particularly good . After wrapping, just put it in the oven and bake it. No need to ferment. Put the upper and lower heat at about 200 degrees and bake it in the middle layer of the oven for 20 seconds. When it bakes for a few minutes , the pork suet inside will turn into oil and it will flow out. This is normal. The oil that flows out will be absorbed by the dough underneath , and the bottom will be very crispy. The black sesame seeds are filled with sugar. It is the easiest to reveal the filling. The freshly baked yellow-flavored sesame seed cakes are very crispy on the outside and very soft on the inside . The layers are really fragrant and delicious. The sugar filling is wrapped when you want to eat osmanthus flavor. You can also add some dried osmanthus to the sugar filling. Did you find that the sound is particularly crispy? Because I used different water and noodles. When I cut the shredded radish filling , the sound was not so crispy . Look at the filling. It's too much and the skin is rolled too thin, so the layers are not obvious , but it's really enjoyable to eat with a lot of fillings. The meat floss is also very fragrant . Let's see if the meat floss is not as soft as the shredded radish filling. Hey, I'll give it to you now. Let me reveal the shocking secret I discovered, that is, the texture of dough made by kneading it with water of different temperatures is different . The texture of the dough made by boiling it with 100% boiling water is completely crispy , not crispy at all, and it is very crispy. My first The first time I made it, I didn't read the instructions carefully. I just used all the boiling water to scald the noodles and then kneaded them well. I didn't add any cold water and the texture was very crispy but not crispy at all . It's delicious. If you like a completely crispy texture, then use 100% boiling water to scald the noodles. This is the first time I made this and I asked my husband to help me taste it. My husband said that it is already extremely crispy. It's too crispy. On the contrary, I The dough is made with all ice water and has a very crispy texture. The sugar filling is made with all ice water. So why is the texture not soft enough? Because I only used the fermentation method once, that is, after kneading the dough, it was directly wrapped into crispy dough without fermentation. When it is baked, it does not swell more and the inside is not softer. How to make the authentic Huangqiao Shaobing? It is semi-hot noodles and then fermented once more , so its taste is somewhere in between . It's crispy and very soft inside. I think Huangqiao Shaobing is really worth trying. It's very particular and very delicious. I'm looking forward to everyone's homework.