- It's been a minute since Margrave. - It's been two years, You look good. - I look the same. - You looked good two years, Yeah, you look the same. - You look road worn. - Yep. (upbeat music) - [Reacher] Excuse me. I was wondering if I - Well, that is what we give here. - [Reacher] I'm looking for my cousin. He has a really bad drug problem and a family friend said they saw him living on the street around here. - I'm sorry to hear that. - Well, thank you. I promised my aunt I wouldn't come back home without her son. I don't know where to even begin looking and I thought maybe the church has a support group or something and, through that, maybe where Jimmy was scoring. (suspenseful music) - Look at this (beeps) beaut. What's he think he's gonna do? (airbag explodes) (suspenseful music continues) Ah. My (beeps) nose, man. (head thuds) - Gun! (fist and knee whacking) (customers chattering) (tray clatters) - Looks like someone took the - Doreen, I'm just warming up. - The devil did his best work when he created that poison, didn't he? - Sure did. - Almost everyone who comes gets their fix from the same place, Dumont, just east of Rockaway. But you've gotta have a death wish to walk in there alone, son. - I'll be fine, father. (footsteps clomping) I have righteousness on my side. (dog barking) - Just like the good old days. - Yeah, you on the sidelines - Uh, fellas, this was his gun. (ominous music continues) - Name's Gaitano Russo. - Don't look at me. You did all the work. Oh, tell me it's time Uh, tell me it's time - O'Donnell and Neagley found the bar. It's fully stocked, not for long. You unpacked? (upbeat keyboard music) - Yep. (upbeat keyboard music continues) (ominous music) (car revs) (car doors slamming) - No, you two stay here. You both look like cops. (footsteps clomping) - What do you two look like? - Lady and the tramp. Broadway Yeah, funky Broadway Baby, oh, baby - Gotta say man, major screw up. Soon as Russo wakes up, the entire NYPD is Why'd you gotta hit him so hard, huh? - I don't hit soft. - Ha, well, a cop puncher's - I was pissed about the dog and I assumed he was involved - What did you teach us? &quot;In a investigation, assumptions kill.&quot; - No, it was, &quot;In an - I didn't kill him, I'll take the 17, two 19s, that - Well, just so you know, once there's a seven day waiting period, before you can purchase a firearm. You can only buy one in a 30-day window, but I can hold 'em for ya. - That's a lotta hoops. (ominous music) (window knocking) Hey slugger. - Get out. - I'll pay you back the bail money. - Don't forget the room - What are you waiting for? Get out. Hands on the roof, Paul Bunyan. (car door slams) - Neagley, Dixon, handle O'Donnell? - How can I be of service? (boxes thudding) - Oh yeah, more hoops than the NBA - Rules say you can lend which, as you know, is for legal temporary transfer Nice to meet you friend, I'm Joe Gordon. You went to law school, right? - Yeah, Rutgers. - So, kinda - You can kiss my (beeps) - This guy's my lawyer. (beeps) - Detective? My client's requested counsel. If you separate us during transport, you'll be creating a contestable issue that I assure you I will win on appeal in the slim chance a conviction - None of that is remotely accurate. (suspenseful music) - We can agree to disagree. - Rutgers. (suspenseful music continues) (car door slams) - Barbara Gottelsman She's 79, so be nice. - Why wouldn't I be nice? Bookstores and record shacks - I don't know, I like my Glock 17. - That is a Glock 17. - I said my Glock 17, okay? I like the feel. (Reacher sighs) What was that? - Oh, nothing. Just listening to a 200 hitter - Hey, I'm a great shot. - You're average at best. - Bull (beeps). Dixon, back me up here. That time in Biloxi- - Was the luckiest shot I've ever seen. - Thank you. - Man, you couldn't hit a - Yeah. - Oh, you pick up the phone. I thought maybe you couldn't answer because you broke your hand through the office building. - I didn't get hurt at all. - You think this is funny? I told you no more cowboy (beeps). - The car belonged to I was returning it. - Hey, where are the - Garbage. - Garbage, why? - I'm already carrying boots. If I had any more clothes, I got a suitcase, I need then I need a car for the driveway. Before you know it, I'm - So, spare shirts is too Anyone ever diagnose you as a sociopath? - Diagnosed? No. (upbeat music) We got money on the table You really wanna bet it You ain't talk about Making moves so forget it Come on, come on Come on, come on You got money on the table You really wanna bet it - Howdy. Making moves so forget it Come on - (beeps) Five O, five O. - That was rude. (fist whacks) - This just aint your week. (gentle piano music) - Not one word. - Holy (beeps). - That's two words. Another one and I'll right up your (beeps). - I'm just saying you look nice. You both look nice. - You look like the (beeps) (gentle piano music continues) Here, I'll pay you back in a - Yeah, your pension won't cover that suit or the hotel room or the plane ticket. - I'll pay you back in two months. (ominous music) So, are the drug charges - I don't know, I'm not a cop. (car revs) (passersby chattering) (car door slams) (horn honking) Let me guess. Government plates, government Surprised it took Senator Lavoy this long to figure out who sweated - The senator has a - No. (ominous music) - You're under arrest. - No. These guys took a run at a crowded funeral. They're getting desperate. This thing's coming to a head fast. We take him in, he lawyers up, and doesn't talk until it's too late and the terrorist has 650 chances to take down a commercial airliner. - So, what do you want me to do? - Look the other way. (ominous music continues) - Oh, come on man. - Why not, Mr. Reacher? - Fine, Reacher. Why won't you get in the car? - Because he didn't ask nicely. - Okay, Hart, what's the magic word? (suspenseful music) - Please get in the vehicle? - She got her kid a drink and a dog and bought a burner phone with cash. Let me keep the change. - She was in a rush, didn't - If you wanna see (horn honking) - She's not the scooch in type. (ominous music) (tape rips) Home made silencer. Call Marlo out here or Scream, I shoot you in the head. - Okay. (ominous music continues) Uh, Marlo, can you come - Sit back down. Can't believe you fell for that. (O'Donnell laughs) It's a 16th inch of plastic. (upbeat rock and roll music) - Looks like you had a rough night. - Had worse. - What can I get ya? - Same. - Hey, you can bring the pot. - For you, ma'am? - Cereal, pops, puffs, and pebbles in that order of preference. And a chocolate milkshake, thanks. (customers chattering) (bright music) (upbeat music)