AMY GALLO: Let's say you've for a position you really want. Well done. Congratulations. But when it's time you might get a lot Be yourself. Whatever you do, Take charge of the interview. Let the interviewer Confusing, right? Well, I'm here to help. In this video, from top experts in to share strategic tips on how and what to say so that you in your next interview. [MUSIC PLAYING] First, do your homework. Let's be honest. Your primary job is to dazzle them with the suited for the role. But before you can to invest time in learning about So find out as much how the organization its culture, and If possible, see about the people There may be valuable of connection that could relatable and memorable. Lastly, research the of the particular position and the qualities of a on that information. Ask yourself questions like, essential to perform this job? What kinds of people skills What do I need to prove or that I'm willing to learn Being well-prepared will and give you a better chance And all of this information in the next tip, That's right. It's story time. And these stories are the perfect person for the job. As author Claudio &quot;people buy into stories far or data.&quot; A good story can and boost your likability. If you give them a chance to you might just set yourself Remember how you just researched and what's important Well, now you get to tell connect each of those values, and achievements in both Pick three or four main messages your narratives accordingly. The goal is to have so you can smoothly as answers to relevant Author Vicky Oliver writes has a great beginning, and an end that makes the to win the job. Have a good opening let me tell you about a time then tell them about any and how you overcame them. Keep the story short but An important note-- have to show total perfection. You will make a real impression if you can share stories of as long as you remember to show Practice, practice, practice-- Once you select your stories, Just like an actor prepares you are preparing a character, flexible version of yourself I'm not saying you should be your experiences or skills. But author and coach &quot;You are literally You are presenting the best And since you've you know what parts of your to emphasize for each position. So what exactly Well, for one, First impressions In fact, research form opinions about your in the first 30 seconds of So in front of a mirror, pretend and assess things like and body language. You want to communicate a and confidence. The most important thing is to with energy and enthusiasm. You want to be ready to share and straightforward responses You can even practice or record yourself on video. You can then use the feedback to to your appearance before the actual interview. Have a great conversation. Once you're comfortable Cathy Salit has another Instead of performing is trying really perform as someone a great conversation with First, be curious or at if you need to. Ask open-ended questions This will allow the conversation Side note, if you check out the links for another to ask in an interview. Be ready to improvise. I know I've just told you your stories, but they to be rattled off. You also need to listen to accept every conversational phrase, &quot;yes, and&quot; as a way to Also, as author John be flexible, read the room, If your radar is telling working, you may need to adjust your tone, or because, well, some to hear themselves talk. Pay attention and When things go wrong-- despite your best interviews don't Here are some potential pitfalls Lack of direct experience-- If there are areas where your correlate to the job, away from where your fall short and towards an and overall competence. If you can demonstrate your or adapt to a situation, this to ignore any potential One side note-- taking charge can help steer interviewers that favor experience Tough questions If there are some on your CV, like a long or a short stay at a recommends preparing to reply so that you aren't First, prepare a simple, that doesn't go into Then have an if the interviewer follows up. For example, if a degree that would have be ready to answer an initial I felt it was better to go If the interviewer be ready with another thought about it carefully. I knew it would carry but I was confident that with direct work experience. Mistakes happen. If you notice your or you've stumbled don't dwell on the mistakes. Just keep going Answer the current question Even acknowledging the situation like, am I giving is there other information and then following their of the current hole and get A note on preparing Many interviews these If that's the case for you, you should do to prepare. First, prepare your space. You want your background to Clean up the area even if it's not Research shows that so is our thinking. A clean environment and make you feel less stressed. These are things your and it will make a big Your face should be Make sure your internet Pro tip, Google and check to make sure can handle the call. Next, prepare yourself. Even though it's virtual, you Unless the organization experts recommend a business to appear more authentic, and knowledgeable. Wear something comfortable. You don't want to be while on camera. Use your computer's and your space can see what your any necessary tweaks. OK, let's review. Here's a quick wrap-up of the out in your next interview. All of these strategies linked in the description. Do you have any advice on how Or do you have other big Comment below. Bye for now.