The placing on this list is based off of a favorite sith lord. At number 10, with 350 votes, is Vitiate, He was born over 5,000 years before the clone By the moment he was born, Vitiate was as At just the young age of 6, he had already His stepfather's life, after witnessing him But Vitiate didn't kill him out of kindness, mother for months with the force before finally The pain and anger produced from these killings After killing his mother, he went on a rampage planet he was on, forcing those who were strong By the time he was only 13 years old, he had His lust for power didn't end there. When he was older he went on to trick 8,000 resulted in their deaths, with all of their gave him immeasurable amounts of power and After the ritual, he probably became the most in history. He was so powerful that he even defeated the both to the dark side. He then secretly constructed a new sith empire, waging war on the republic and taking over Although he was onset on taking over the galaxy, to destroy it and consume every living being's life and the ability to do anything he pleased. He basically would have become a god at that Anyway he was killed multiple times over the Multiples times, in that he was able to transfer bodies and cheat death. During his time as the Sith Emperor he was known as the eternal empire, to which he began But at that point he wasn't exactly a sith we'll end the summary here. From your guys' comments, most of you voted and the fact that he achieved immortality, personality. At number 9, with 374 votes, is Darth Plagueis. A wealthy Muun banker to the public eye, Plagueis known for being the master of Palpatine and Like most Sith, Plagueis strived to achieve extreme, especially in his later years. He experimented with the force and manipulated that was the path to success. He was somewhat successful, being able to others. It is also believed that Plagueis indirectly him through the force with his manipulations Which means Plagues is technically Anakin's Anyway, as we know through Palpatine's tale, apprentice, aka the guy telling the story. Plagueis was killed in his sleep after Palpatine his former master as nothing more but a loose Although his apprentice was a psychopathic reasonable and kind of nice, well for a sith He came to view Palpatine as an equal despite him with his life, which was a fatal mistake the chance. Many people voted for Plagueis due to his the fact that he laid the groundwork for the And also because some people believe him to At number 8, with 396 votes, is Darth Bane. Born about 1,000 years before the clone wars, miner who was only known as Dessel. After a heated game of Sabacc, Dessel killed after the officer attacked him over losing Desperate in avoiding the authorities, Dessel and into the Sith Empire. He quickly became a footsoldier within the it was discovered that he was force sensitive. He was sent to the Sith academy on Korriban Although he became an excellent warrior, he place, viewing the brotherhood of darkness Bane went on to study Darth Revan's sith With this new knowledge, Bane destroyed the Sith Order. In his order he instituted the rule of two: at any given time, a master and an apprentice. This was to prevent the endless infighting Bane later picked the young girl Zannah to his knowledge down to. A decade passed, and Bane's existence was The Jedi sent a strike team to kill him and Despite being outnumbered, Bane and Zannah Bane sustaining an injury. They both went into hiding, during which Bane A decade later and Bane's rule of two was Believing she was ready to surpass her master, to replace him. The first duel between ended with a draw, Shortly after a second duel was fought between His apprentice continued his rule of two by This same cycle continued on for centuries to Darth Sidious who went on to destroy the Most people who voted for Darth Bane seemed of two which paved the path for the sith to At number 7, with 406 votes, is Darth Talon. Born over 100 years after the clone wars, up under Darth Crate's Sith Empire. She quickly rose through the ranks after killing the high rank of becoming a Hand of Darth She was given a mission to capture Cade Skywalker During her time with Cade, they developed But it didn't last long, with Cade eventually After Darth Crate was defeated by Cade Skywalker, of the order went into hiding. Her ultimate fate is left unknown. Many people voted for her because of her unending how she looks. At number 6, with 444 votes, is Darth Tyranus. Originally a long devoted Jedi, Dooku became Republic they were serving, viewing both as ways. Being regarded as one of the greatest Jedi blow to the Order and the Masters who knew The Jedi eventually created a bust in his in their own ways. Dooku eventually fell to the dark side and name of Darth Tyranus. Together they schemed the ultimate sith plot galaxy. They did this by starting the Clone Wars and sole purpose was to betray and destroy them. Unfortunately for Dooku, he was betrayed by who went on to replace him as Palpatine's Many people voted for Count Dooku because very elegant lightsaber fighting style. At number 5, with 698 votes, is Darth Sidious. Born to a wealthy family on the planet of very young age. Viewed and treated as an outcast by his family, killing them when he was a young adult. He was later taken in as an apprentice to side. Along with his Sith teachings, Palpatine was who would spear head the Sith plot by becoming opinion only a Human could become Supreme And seeing the recent history of the chancellorship, Anyway, once Palpatine cemented his rise to Plagueis in his sleep, as he viewed him as As Chancellor. Palpatine manipulated the galaxy throughout to extend his terms and eventually gain emergency After the Jedi were destroyed from Order 66, new galactic empire. He ruled with an iron fist for the next 2 killed by Darth Vader. But his story didn't end there. In Legends, Palpatine came back to life through bodies he had stored on secret worlds across Once ready, he wrecked havoc in the galaxy into a full out war. He finally was defeated after Han Solo killed Brand consumed Palpatine's spirit and trapped the force itself. Most of his votes came from people who enjoyed him to trick the Jedi into their own destruction of the galaxy. At number 4, with 967 votes, is Darth Nihilus. He is another sith from the Old Republic era, clone wars. Losing everything as a young man during the consumed with immense pain that later developed force. This hunger could only be cured by stealing But the relief only lasted for a short time, demanding Nihilus to continue draining his He soon became a slave to this hunger, committing energies. He continued to do this until he was taken who wished to make him into her student so into her powerful servant. She eventually granted him Darth Nihilus and With all the training he had received, Nihilus their life forces, making him one of the most Unfortunately for Traya, she was betrayed Doing pretty much his own thing now, Nihilus he possibly could, eventually destroying his all the energies he had consumed. This forced him to use the force to encase He later took on an apprentice named Visas consumed to destruction. Marr would eventually betray her master and the current Mandalore to defeat Nihilus. Although he was defeated his force spirit on the planet Korriban. Many people voted for Darth Nihilus due to to destroy all life on planets, and also because At number 3, with 1,350 votes, is Darth Maul. Originally only supposed to act as a Sith Maul become a full blown Sith Lord once Palpatine Though this apprenticeship was short lived Wan when he was cut down. Believed to be dead, Maul was soon replaced But he wasn't dead and he continued to live he went insane over his failures and defeat He finally came to when his brother Savage nightsister magic make him sane again. Now back and seeking revenge, Maul wrecked out Obi Wan in an attempt to destroy him and taking power over Mandalore and crime syndicates. But his plans were crushed when Palpatine him, capturing his former apprentice and bringing Palpatine's ultimate plan was not to kill to lure out Mother Talzin and to kill her Maul fell for this trap eventually leading her get killed. After witnessing his own mother get killed, a shadow of his former self. He reappeared almost 2 decades later and he him his apprentice, but he has currently found Maul gained many votes for his persistence been motivating him in getting his revenge He also gained many votes for his tattoos At number 2, with 2,741 votes, is Darth Vader. Probably the most iconic villain in not only made his first menacing appearance in a New Rogue One where he proved once again to audiences He was the emperor's main enforcer and was hunting down Jedi to chasing down rebels. Although his injuries limited his ability he was still a monster in lightsaber combat. His strikes were so strong and heavy hitting, Jedi with just a few hits, knocking their a killing blow on them. Although he at first was pretty much completely slipped once Vader discovered he had a son. While he was unable to convince his son to he did eventually save Luke's life by sacrificing People voted for Vader for multiple reasons, development of a broken man who was corrupted Palpatine but was able to ultimately overcome in chains for decades. Before we mention number 1, we have a few First is Darth Crate, for getting 11th place He was the creator of the Rule of One and series. Second is Darth Malgus for getting the most He was a prominent warrior for the Sith Empire during the Great Galactic War. And finally a shout out to the 12 people who drive through. At number one, with 2,942 votes, is Darth Originally a prominent Jedi who led the republic dark side when he and his friend Malak confronted As a sith lord, Darth Revan started the Jedi He was eventually betrayed by his friend, dead. But he survived and he eventually recovered Knowing how powerful he was and wishing to decided to retrain him in the Jedi ways again Once retrained as a Jedi, Revan was sent to He succeeded. After a while, the memories of his past life This caused him to search for answers, and sith and kept as a prisoner. As a prisoner, he was constantly tortured mind to split into two halves, the light and The dark side of Revan sought to destroy the methods. But before he was able to accomplish this, side of Revan. After everything, Revan finally was able to force. Many people voted for Revan because of how was right, even if it meant going against His struggle between the light and the dark Thanks for watching our top ten list. Let us know if you enjoyed this video and and categories concerning star wars. Feel free to comment below with what you want that you agree with. Also let us know what you want us to change anything we should add or remove. All feedback will be greatly appreciated.