(mysterious music) - [Data] Sensors indicate the presence of an extremely strong in this vicinity. - Can you localize the source - [Data] It appears to be approximately 200 million kilometers in diameter. - That's nearly as large around the sun. - Mister Data, could this be a Dyson sphere? (mysterious music) - Dyson spheres are one of that have percolated into The concept is seductive. A gargantuan artificial the ultimate machine for But, it's also an idea which and so today, we're gonna of Dyson spheres. How might they work, and what might someone even use these for. Today, we're gonna dive into all of that, so stick around because the but the fun is real. Let's start with the In truth, both the word Freeman Dyson wasn't the and by his account, he Dyson himself attributes the idea to a 1937 science fiction by Olaf Stapledon, a book which literary once described as &quot;probably of imagination ever written.&quot; In fact, in a 2014 interview, Dyson even gracefully suggested that it should instead be But, the fact remains that to described the idea published in June of 1960. In it, he suggested that at of just 1% per year, humanity would eventually of the entire sun in a testament to the extraordinary To achieve this, he imagined which completely surrounds Now, certainly that sounds but in response to numerous he later clarified that a solid sphere would be mechanically impossible, and instead he envisaged or swarm of objects. Later on in 1966, he of detecting such swarms would be via irregular light variations due to starlight shining through Perhaps there was a typo or something, but to me, this sounds distinct of something which, and I quote, completely surrounds the parent star. In any case, I'm gonna continue to use the phrase Dyson sphere, as wrong as it might be, simply because it has become so ingrained in popular culture at this point. Now, before we dive into the physics, I wanna take a minute to thank the sponsor of today's video, that's Incogni. I've been partnering with because it is such a great service, cleaning up your digital Look, if you're anything like me, you probably hate giving away your personal information online because at the end of the day, you're gonna get hounded with spam emails and bogus phone calls. The truth is, there actively harvesting and One way to fight back is Incogni, who scour databases for and then use the weight of the law to demand that your And what's great is that they keep at it, persisting until compliance is met. Something you can track I used to get all kinds of spam calls to such a degree that I basically had to stop answering the phone, and often, I'd get emails I am sick of this kind of stuff. And if you are too, then head for an exclusive Cool Worlds discount of a whopping 60% off their annual plan. Once again, that's incogni.com/CoolWorlds, link down below in the description. Clicking that link supports our So please do check them out. Now, back to the video. Okay, so it is widely stated is mechanically impossible. But why and is it really? Let's dive into the physics here, which is wonderfully summarized in a brilliant review article Consider a solid hollow It is generally assumed that Dyson spheres will be very large in order to be useful, be it for habitation or If it has a radius equal to Earth's orbital radius around the sun, then even a relatively thin shell is going to be incredibly massive. Dyson imagine deconstructing Jupiter, the heaviest planet in the solar system, over a span of 800 years, which would yield enough material for a 6.7 meter thick shell. It's important to emphasize For comparison, if you that's say half a meter across, the bubble wall is typically about a hundred nanometers thick. If we now shrunk down the Dyson it would have a wall 10,000 times thinner than the soap bubble. So hopefully, it is is gonna be incredibly fragile. The mechanical feasibility in 1985 by astronomer Michael Papagiannis, who pointed out that every will feel an inward where the star lives. Like a keystone bridge, each but resists by pressing These forces essentially and if the force is excessive, the bridge, or in our case The critical pressure at which this occurs is given by the elastic modulus E multiplied by the relative The gravitational pressure felt is given by Newton's familiar normalized by surface Equating the two and rearranging, we need a material that of at least this in order to resist buckling. So to give some example numbers for a 10-meter wall with, this corresponds to an extraordinary 10 to the 13 gigapascals. That is some nine orders of magnitude greater than the strongest atomic bond, the carbon-carbon bond, found in graphene and diamond. Now, trying to make the because the sphere becomes so massive that it then tries to collapse much like a black hole. A similar issue arises if normal matter for exotic Whilst neutronium has elastic modulus, which is eight orders it is unfortunately 14 And thus, it is in fact an even worse potential builder material. Spinning the sphere to try and create counter centrifugal since the poles won't spin, and thus they would still buckle. Jason Wright's article points out that a much better hope for a solid sphere is to make it incredibly light. If we make it thin enough, radiation pressure from the start will push against the in the same way how a due to photonic pressure. The downside is that this with a mass density of just over a hundred times thinner humanity has ever flown: LightSail 2. But, there's no reason make a material like this. Indeed, the Breakthrough that they can manufacture which has a computer and into a smart fabric. This wouldn't be very useful like us to live on, but it would be an immensely It also has the added benefit We'd now just have to the same mass as Mercury An obvious downside here How would such a material fare against a stray micrometeoroid But mechanical stress facing Dyson spheres. There's also the question A particularly elegant theorem which proves that the gravitational field felt within a spherical shell Indeed, this also holds for other fields like electric or magnetic. In essence, all of the cancel out to zero. This means that the star actually feels no force exerted upon it by the sphere itself. Yet more, this is true from the central position. So, if we shifted the the star would just sit there feeling no force and That's actually a bad thing though, because now there is no restoring force to keep the star and the What this means is that if the sphere experiences a slight nudge to one side, it will just drift across. As it does so, the star until of course it eventually crashes into the waterless sphere. This situation is not an It's something in between, one you might call neutral stability, like a ball balanced on a ridge. Such things cannot last because after all the universe is filled with slight forces nudging things around all the time. Unless the sphere is willing to lose mass using reaction thrusters, but then of course, it would the only option it has to stabilize itself is to exhaust photons. To see this, consider is solid everywhere, then photons coming off the star just hit the inner surface evenly and these little nudges all Hopefully that makes sense. It's the same reason why you can't have a reactionless drive. And bonus physics point, it whatever the shape of the envelope. It doesn't have to be a sphere. But let's now use that and fire off a laser out into deep space. That laser carries momentum, and thus the sphere will being propelled in the other direction. In this way, a sphere could for slight nudges, but the problem is that light really doesn't carry much momentum so this really isn't very effective. I estimate that there's enough force here to counter something like passing by, say, Saturn's So, a civilization would probably need to thoroughly clear their before attempting to So a solid Dyson sphere is possible. It just has to be incredibly thin and in a nearly empty solar system. Now, everything we discussed so far are really engineering issues, but it is also interesting to If we put a blanket around the star, surely that is going to After all, the inner surface of the sphere will be emitting photons and a fraction of those will Some of these photons from the sphere because and some of them will be photon simply reflecting off the interior. In just the past few years, astronomers like Macy have been exploring how these effects might impact the star itself. Keeping track of all of the different ways that photons can get reflected, absorbed, transmitted, and emitted, the conclusion is that the with extra energy that As a result, the luminosity the degree of which of the sphere's material properties. If the inner shell is highly reflective, the luminosity increases by where T is the fraction of light which transmits straight So, if T were zero, we would have infinite growth in the luminosity, and thus the star would Barring this extreme case, the photonic feedback can be quite stable and leads to some interesting As the star gets bombarded it responds in the way to increased heat, it puffs up. After all, it is just The star that swells in radius, and as a result, the surface cools down as well as decreasing So this means that we First, the star becomes redder, which is actually kind of annoying. Red light has less exergy than blue light, which is a measure of that can be extracted. Second and more usefully, means that the rate of Thus, the star will burn fuel In this way, one could actually extend the lifetime of a star. Here at the Cool Worlds Lab, we've developed another way by using starlifting. That is physically One might then imagine that could use both strategies the parameters of their So we showed earlier that Dyson spheres are plausibly stable, at least under certain assumptions. And now, we've established not destabilize their parents' star. Great! The only thing left Why would an advanced Certainly, Dyson's original is a good one, which in his famous paper into three types. You can see our earlier But what does a civilization actually do with all of this energy? Dyson's original vision of an artificial After all, the only stable Recently, much more to the idea of using these Perhaps in a post biological world, civilizations upload their an idea we explored in our The physics of computation and here, the most important Physicist Rolf Landauer approved in 1961 that the maximum rate of classical competition is inversely proportional of the computer. This is now known as Landauer's limit. Now, things are admittedly for quantum computers, but again, it is clear that because that reduces the thermal noise and makes it easier to Cooler temperatures mean a bigger sphere. Just think about putting your hands close or far from the campfire. It turns out that even a Dyson supercomputer that was about 300 Kelvin will be capable of some 10 to the 47 logical That is enough that you like 10 to the 33 human brains, a truly outrageous number. From this, my hot take is on why Dyson sphere builders would prefer the smallest red dwarf due to three reasons. First, they live the longest, up to trillions of years. Second, they are inherently much cooler, and that means that if you wanna build a 300 Kelvin Dyson sphere around it, that sphere could be 40 as compared to the sun, and thus, you need 1600 Third, they are the most and are more often in single star systems. However, a downside is that such stars take many billions of years to settle down and stop flaring so wildly. So, perhaps the universe to be worth building these things yet, and maybe this is more I haven't talked about observations or candidates at all today, which have been in the news recently. We'll get there another day. But we have shown how is not totally impossible, and given that, everything when you consider dense Giant rings are particularly neat since they can be spun up to reduce the mechanical stresses One might imagine a harvesting energy from the star. Each ring performing different functions like habitation, computation, The thing that really is that there's apparently no reason why they can't exist. As far as we can tell, there are no fundamental physical barriers to their construction. The rules of the universe apparently excluding our or warp drives. But then, they turn around and say, &quot;Go ahead, build as many You get the feeling that we're starting a kind of grand game, and we are playing in sandbox mode. How far we choose to take this game is really up to us. So until next time, stay (light upbeat music) Thank you so much for watching If you enjoyed it, then please It really does help us out. And if you wanna become a super supporter, you can use the link where you can become a the Cool World's Lab, just like our latest supporter. That is Hunter Schiff. Thank you so much for Appreciate you. All right everyone, thanks again. (light upbeat music)