-Hi, Cong. -How are you? Welcome. -Thank you for taking me. Of course, of course. That time with my dad, I told him, After that prayer, my dad's eyes opened. Mhmm. He lived. That was a tough battle. My mother was fighting for her life, and she's trying her best to wake up and watch me win. And you were also fighting for your--- For my constituents. &quot;Ma, before you leave us, please help them make up.&quot; Mhmm. That was it. The reason why I'm tearing up is because it's so hard to have a family that's getting divided. Mhmm. Especially me since I'm the eldest. Mhmm. I feel useless as the eldest You are originally from Baguio. Yes. My parents met in Baguio My father is the one from Bulacan. So, when they got married you transferred to-- or did you also live in Baguio? I stayed in Baguio for seven years. And the reason why you transferred to Bulacan is? Because since we are an extended family so my father is wherever my grandfather was. It seems to me that the children or grandchildren were exposed to their grandparents or other family members that work for the government or public service. Yes. I feel like the other members of the family tend to lead towards that direction also. Yes, because at first, I didn't like it because my father used to have a lot of visitors. People are really coming up to him. My worry that time-- because I get jealous as the daughter I used to complain, &quot;There are so many people here.&quot; I didn't realize back then that my grandfather was serving for the government and the people. Same with my dad. This is me now. That's how it is, right? You don't notice it but you are being led to that direction. And as a young girl, whenever I see elderly people, I go after them to help them. And I said, &quot;I want to have a Home for the Aged.&quot; I was only 8-10 years old that time. Then my dad asked me, &quot;Yes, Dad. I know it.&quot; And then finally, that's when I realized that But Cong. Rida's dream as a child was? I wanted to be a doctor. Yes. Right? I really wanted to be a doctor but I'm asthmatic, I said, &quot;Maybe I'm not meant to become a doctor.&quot; But I took up BS Psychology. My mom told me before, &quot;Rida, take up Nursing.&quot; &quot;So you can go to America and live with your uncles and aunties.&quot; I really didn't like it. Honestly, I took a lot of exams, I couldn't pass Nursing. But I passed on Medtech, BS Biology. Instead you took up HRM. -Yes, I took up HRM after. In St. Paul College of Manila, I shifted to HRM. Your educational background is so impressive. -You went to Harvard. You also went to Wharton and Cambridge. Yeah, and I also went to Oxford. You also went to Oxford. I also went to London School of Economics. So, what did you do after finishing HRM? Because before, in St. Paul College of Manila, you need to learn everything. So, I worked for a fastfood chain. I trained there but I did my practicum in Manila Hotel. During that time, when you got into Manila Hotel, it means you're a bright student. -When you pass their training? And then I also worked in British Airlines. -Ah. All of those trainings and all, I followed my father's footsteps who was a contractor. And then how did you end up being a public servant? I got married to Mayor Arthur Robes. Ah. And when they were asking him to become a congressman, Because we just got married that time. But I prayed for it. And true enough, when he won, I told him, &quot;Dad, when you are already in the position, just do what's in your heart.&quot; &quot;Because it took us a while to come up with this decision. The whole family decided on this.&quot; &quot;Give them what they deserve.&quot; But the Lord is good. Mayor Arthur was given the position of Chairman Committee of Person with Disability, Senior Citizens, And you already have the heart for the elderly at a young age. Yes. So, when I saw the elderly, it's like the Lord was telling me that public service isn't about fame and power. But it's your heart to do what is right. But from the outside looking in, there is a negative connotation about politicians here in the Philippines. -I get hurt because of that. I get hurt because nobody is perfect. There's no perfect thing in life. But for those who are like us who have the heart for it, it's hard. You really have to condole, empathize, and sympathize Even if you're not related to them. You also cry with them even if you're not actually related. It's hard because it's not just drama. For you to have this heart, you need to have a soul. Soul that really cares. Nothing can compensate for that. Because what we do is public service, We know that we have a different character. And this character is with the Lord who will lead us through. So, it was 2016 when you first--- Entered. In the world of--- -Politics. What is the most challenging part of being a public servant? When they accuse us of all sorts of things. Because it hurts. For you to serve well, you need to have a good reputation and credibility. And it hurts us the most when it is tainted. Because it is hard to lead if the people you are leading have inhibitions. It's hard. As a woman and leader, how do you separate your personal feelings from your work? Because just like you said, it's really hurts when you are being judged and when there's a misconception about public servants like you. -Yes. For me, there is no separations. What you see is what you get. But I make it a point and make sure But if I were to ask you, how can you separate -Oh, okay. Because that is their first target. Yes. -Because they know. Because that is the weakness of a woman. Because family is the kryptonite of women or politicians. Mhmm. So we can get to her. &quot;This will destroy her.&quot; &quot;We will target the family members.&quot; Because it's more painful. -Yes, I can handle it. Just not my children. So how do you deal with it? Because the Mayor and I are very open to the public, right? So we show them our children and all. But during interviews or anything about our children, we don't mention them anymore. Because sometimes, they use that against us. So, to separate our private life, we don't answer questions about our children. We can show them to you but I make it a point that we don't share anything personal about them. Even if you are a public figure or a public servant, Yeah, because there should be boundaries. You should limit what you share. Because it's different now. Our children today is different to how we were before. It's easier for them to take on challenges, struggles in life. A lot of the young people today struggle So, I saw that in my children. And I have this project called 1 like for life. I go to shools and I bring psychiatrists, psychologists, And based on what I observe, family is the number 1 reason for young people to struggle mentally. And I don't want that to happen to my children. Mhmm. Good thing that my youngest is strong enough. She would come up to me and say, &quot;Mom, I saw this.&quot; &quot;Do you believe it?&quot; &quot;No. I know you better. You're my mom.&quot; But what happens when they get affected? Oh, I just cry. -It's only natural. -That really made you cry, Cong. When it comes to your children. Yes, when it comes to my children and parents. I remember back in 2016, they were saying I am not doing anything but they keep on dragging my name. Until my mother went into coma. Why? Because she's been hearing things about me &quot;My daughter is not like that.&quot; After that, she was taken to the hospital Then she finally died after 10 months of being comatose. How did you handle that? During my campaign, I couldn't stop crying. Yeah. The campaign ran for 45 days, right? My siblings were like, &quot;Ate--&quot; She died during the campaign? No, she went into coma during the campaign. Oh, shucks. After her birthday, so that was April 3. We even went to church together on March 27. Then that was it. That was a tough battle. My mother was fighting for her life, and she's trying her best to wake up and watch me win. And you were also fighting for your--- For my constituents. -Yes. So, what are the core principles for you? For me, it's transparency and honesty. Put love in your work. You should be focused. You should put your heart and soul And God. Some would say I'm corny about that, but every time I hold a meeting, we would always pray. Even if I am not a pastor. Even if I'm not a nun or a priest. I will do everything in my capacity as a Catholic to share with them how I feel this morning, afternoon, or night that I am grateful to Him. Why do you become emotional when you tell that story? Because during the time my dad got into an accident- It's funny but you are crying. He had an accident with a firecracker before. He lost his thumb. We were in the hospital for almost 3 months. I told him, &quot;Dad, let's pray 'Our Father' &quot; After that prayer, his eyes opened. And he lived. Mhmm. And with my mom was when me and my siblings had a problem. So, back when my mother was still okay, no matter what I do, they can't get along. Then I said to God, &quot;Lord, please don't get my mom I don't know what to do for them to talk to each other. I want them to talk it all out. &quot;Please,&quot; I told Him. True enough, because the day when my mom passed away, I went to my mom and said, &quot;Ma, let's do our best to make them up.&quot; My mom teared up. I saw all of them came by my mom's side. They promised not to fight ever again. The following day, around 12:45 pm my mom passed away. But all of them reconciled. They finally made up. Until now. No more arguments and fights between us siblings. Because that's what I told my mom, The reason why I am tearing up because it's so hard Especially for me since I'm the eldest. Mhmm. I feel useless as the eldest What is the one value your father taught you Always look back to where you came from. Always be grateful to those people who helped you. Even if it's just a piece of candy, or a tissue paper, always say &quot;Thank you.&quot; And always look back. Friends come especially when you are in power but only when you are at your lowest you discover who your real friends are. &quot;So, my child, always remember those people &quot;Because they will not leave you.&quot; How about from your mom? From my mom? Praying. Mmm. Always give whatever you can. -Mhmm. Because there was a time I fell in love. I fell in love with Mayor Arthur. I kept on crying. Then we separated. Then we got back to each other's arms. We got married. My mom said, &quot;See, my child? You get what you pray for.&quot; That's what she taught you. Praying. Yes, praying. -That is why I think you strive in everything that you do. Because I feel like one of your motivations is that you want to make your parents proud. Yes, even if they're already in heaven. Mhmm. They always say that being a public servant is difficult because of the public scrutiny, the judgment the misconception and all the accusations that come with it. Yeah. And once you are in that position, the goal of those who are below is to bring you down. Yeah. Why do you still continue to serve? Because of my desire to help. Because passion is very important. So, when I started delivering my services, I see smiles wherever I go. And when people see me, they are very grateful. It makes me look up the sky. &quot;Thank You, Lord for making me a good public servant.&quot; What are the projects that you are most proud of Of course, since I am more of education I have several bills that became National High Schools. Which the people of San Jose del Monte needed. I continued what Mayor Arthur started. We have 19 National High Schools now. It used to be just 2. But it takes time. Tell us about &quot;Tindahan ni Maria&quot;. Tindahan ni Maria is actually helping our people. I empower those who already own stores and help them by adding more items to sell. I also give them cash to serve as change for their customers. After 4-5 months, when my team visits them and sees that their business improved, I will give them extra capital. After a year, if I see their improvements, I'll add more. This started during the pandemic. If we look at it, the community pantry during the pandemic was originated by me here in the Philippines. I called it, &quot;Tindahan ni Maria on the go.&quot; So, you are already doing it in Bulacan in 2020? Yes. I did sectoral. So those in need that were surveyed and enumerated by my coworkers, are being summoned. And I will give them bags that can hold &quot;Get whatever you want.&quot; &quot;Just give me one peso.&quot; And that one peso will go to a bottle of water. They put it all there. Some people would give out 20, 100, 200, 500 pesos. Because they get more of what they paid for. And I don't get those bottles filled with money. And if ever I get money from the sectoral of TODA, For them to buy their supplies like coffee and sugar. And they use it. I do it all around San Jose del Monte. All of those came from my salary since I cannot use government money for it. It has all kinds of vegetables. And of course, a project that took me a while to get approve, the St. Bernadette Maternity Hospital. This is actually for the mothers like us. Those who don't have the means to give birth for free. Those who don't have the means for check-ups This is my greatest achievement. Because this hospital represents those who are like us. Mothers. Why do you get emotional when you talk about it? This makes me feel fulfilled as a mother and as a public servant. Because this came from a mother who dreamt of helping. No one else. And my mother and father. Mayor Arthur. And all the people of San Jose del Monte who struggled back when we were still in Sapang Palay. All of them became my inspiration. Because before, they say Sapang Palay is smelly, dirty, ugly. It's a salvage area. And now, if you see San Jose del Monte, Me and my husband. With the help of those working together for San Jose del Monte. And those who believed in us that we can change the ugly image of San Jose del Monte which is Sapang Palay. Now, it's different. We're good. If you think of Cong. Rida, you have so many roles If we take out the Congresswoman title, who is Rida Robes? I'm just a simple and responsible &quot;Ate Rida.&quot; Ate Rida of the family because I make it a point to patch everything up with them. And to all my constituents, everything they need as long as I can, I will give it to them. That's why I was branded as &quot;Ate Rida.&quot; When the people of Bulacan hear the name Rida Robes, That there was an Ate Rida who served them faithfully and with sincerity. Who is sometimes a bit crazy. Who can be a bully sometimes but loves them. Because I couldn't do all of that All the mean and cruel things I've received. From tabloids to tri-media, I've been through all of that. All because of politics. I wanna be remembered as Ate Rida Who didn't leave them when they needed someone. A big sister who will listen