Greeting Earthlings. If you follow the channel, you know that we hardware. It all started simply enough, with just the wave amplifier, that we picked up from collector But it got progressively more complete, as system, both on the spacecraft side and on Marcel and other generous collectors. It's getting so involved, that we had to it all. But we are far from done. The system is so complex, that we still have For one, we have been powering it up with Now, wouldn't it be nice, if we used the [Marc]: Mike and Eric... [Eric] Hello! [Marc] ...what is this big chunk of metal [Eric] It's very heavy! [Mike] This is a Block I inverter. So, one of three of these, that were installed DC and put out 115 Volt RMS three-phase 400 [Marc] The good avionics AC. So one kilowatt, 1.5 kilowatt-ish each, right? One for each fuel cell, which was 1.3 kilowatt, To better understand the role of the inverters, Service Module power system for a moment. The heart of it consists of 3 fuel cells, and hydrogen, stored in liquid cryogenic form. This produces both electricity and drinkable We explained the fuel cells and their failure I'll link in the doodly-doo. But I'll recap quickly here. The fuel cells were quite powerful, at a max They produced the power for the whole spacecraft, to 31V, depending on how hard you ran them. They had three fuel cells, but the whole mission puts it in their operations handbook, you just one. Of course, on Apollo 13, they lost all three, or the situation would not have been recoverable. The fuel cell power was distributed over thick Main DC Bus B. Normally, Fuel Cell 1 powers and Fuel Cell 2 is connected to either A, And that's why you hear the famous Main [Apollo 13 Audio] CAPCOM: OK LOVELL: We have a Main B Bus undervolt They had just lost Fuel Cell 1 and 3. At the Apollo 13 accident time, the backup the Bus B voltage went to zero, hence the However, you can manually switch any fuel try to reconnect fuel cells to the default on bus B. EECOM: Flight Eecom EECOM: He's got fuel cells 1 and 3 are offline. We got main A volts, we have no main B volts. Have him attempt to reconnect the fuel cells. Fuel cell 1 to Main A, fuel cell 3 to Main CAPCOM: 13 Houston, we'd like you to attempt cell 3 to Main B. This will of course fail, as both fuel cells 2 will be nursed to last an agonizing 90 more HAISE: OK, Houston, I'm showing... I tried to reset and fuel cell 1 and 3 are showing zip on the flows. EECOM: I copy Flight EECOM: Let me commiserate on that Note that on this drawing from Apollo 17, backup. Couldn't they just switch that on? Well, you bet they did not have that one on It was added on 14 after the accident. Hindsight is always 20/20, as they say. Note that on this drawing from Apollo 17, backup. Couldn't they just switch that on? Well, you bet they did not have that one on It was added on 14 after the accident. Hindsight is always 20/20, as they say. But enough for the DC power. What we want to discuss AC power. The spacecraft had two AC busses, powered to open. The inverters converted the DC power from 400 Hz, 3 phase AC, which had been the standard The inverters were quite beefy, rated at 1.25 Since we have 3 fuel cells and 3 inverters, to each fuel cell, but the system is more As you can see here, inverter 1 is powered Inverter 3 by either Main A or Main B. Each inverter AC output can be connected to In the normal config , Inverter 1 powers AC is on standby, connected to nothing. Note that unlike the fuel cells, which you connect two inverters at the same time to However, there was flexibility to connect A complicated set of motorized relays implemented more than one inverter at a time to the same So, you should now be able understand why Main DC Bus B went down, and that's the So inverter 2 went down, and that took out that were connected to it. Sensors that will become quite important pretty You can hear them realizing that, early in EECOM: It does appear we've lost AC Bus 2 Main B is reading 4 Volts, and that effectively By the way, that was the voice of our engineering at the time of the accident. EECOM stands for Electrical, environmental The EECOM will get quite a workout during in a very confusing situation. About 10 minutes after the accident, way before comes to the conclusion that they have lost 1, lost fuel cell 1 and 3, and that they blew tanks. EPS: We might have a pressure problem in the EECOM: Yeah EECOM: That can't be! EPS: I can't believe that right off the bat, EECOM: Yeah, if you believe that N2 pressure EPS: Yeah, we might have lost fuel cell 1, The other voice you just heard is from our manning the EPS, the Electricity Power System Sy will heavily rely on Dick for the whole In the meantime, Sy passes on the bad news engineer. EECOM: And ECS Eecom EECOM: Larry, I am almost afraid to think or we busted the manifold or something. Why, that pressure shouldn't be down that So, right now, the only remaining source of dwindling pressure in Oxygen Tank 1. About 16 minutes in, EPS asks for an immediate the correct move. EPS: Eecom this is EPS EPS: I think we ought to start powering down EPS: Can we... let's keep the power down FLIGHT: Eecom do you want to go through that again, what do you want to power down to? EECOM: I want to power down a total of 10A, FLIGHT: A total of 10A!? EECOM: That's affirm After that first emergency power down, which 25 minutes in. Sy shifts his focus to confirming the status O2 Tank 2 would be their only hope to power But remember our off-line inverter 3 and our Well, Sy has not been able read the O2 Tank pressure sensor is powered by the now dead He then asks Gene Kranz to prioritize the O2 Tank 2. EECOM: Hey EPS Eecom EECOM: We gotta get inverter... we gotta get going on with the O2 pressures! O2 Tank 2 pressure. EECOM: Flight Eecom EECOM: Okay I need one thing right now. He's powering down, he's down to 41 amps total I'd like to get my AC 2 bus back, so I can I have had no insight into that. FLIGHT: Okay. EECOM: Let's get, uh, I guess we can put the Inverter 3 is indeed the only other inverter and can be connected to the AC 2 bus. But this will not get done, because Gene pushes He is still in power reduction mode, and worried EECOM: Let's just do it temporarily Before you do that, would you like to make from the bus? EECOM: No, let's not do that right now Flight. I think we're in good shape that way, main inverter equipment - we had a problem, we don't know That's when Sy, who had suspected that Fuel minutes after the accident, finally breaks It's about 20 minutes in. EECOM: Flight I've got a feeling we've lost I hate to put it that way but... I don't know why we've lost them. It doesn't all tag up. And it's not an instrumentation problem, to FLIGHT: Okay, I'll tell you what, let's discuss Capcom start moving them back towards the Gene is still reluctant. You have to realize that he is on the flight He has heard nothing of the backroom conversations on this after the fact composite loop. All he's heard so far, were the various around while reducing power draw. Then Dick Brown has a brainwave. He realizes that, although you cannot put one inverter on two AC busses. Inverter 1 is working fine right now, powered save the power draw of bringing up another EPS: Hey Sy? EECOM: Go ahead It will save about 4A. We can try AC inverter 1 on both AC busses. EECOM: You want inverter 1 on both AC busses? EPS: Right EECOM: Flight Eecom EECOM: I got a little correction. Let's put inverter 1 on both AC busses, please EECOM: That's affirm. Gene is still nervous about the move and asks FLIGHT: OK, so, you want to configure inverter EECOM: That's affirm, Flight You can tell he's still worried about making He asks a third time for himself, then fully What they are about to discover is startling. FLIGHT: You want to put inverter one in both Eecom and Capcom let's do it. CAPCOM: Okay. CAPCOM: 13 Houston, we need to get some more We'd like you to put inverter 1 on both AC FLIGHT: Eecom Flight FLIGHT: Monitor this bird when we switch it EECOM: Will do This segment it hard to hear, but behind the pressure reading. ECS: Hey Bill O2 Tank 2 pressure. OK, it's low, it's been low. It looks like the culprit is probably venting. In fact, it's probably the one that blew up EPS: Okay I see 19 PSI It's 19 PSI. It should be 900, not 19. The second oxygen tank that they were counting That's the one that caused the problem in Gene is eager to find out, if his caving in And Sy is so taken aback by the reading, that FLIGHT: Okay, you got two good AC busses. What did all that tell you now? EECOM: It... it tells me... that, uh... well... FLIGHT: Okay, take your time Sy thinks the tank 2 is simply empty. One way to confirm it is by looking at the EECOM: Trying to figure out what happened EPS: Right. Now our pressure still should be good. And you see, we got a low point... EPS: Because I probably don't have anything EECOM: Yeah! And we're losing tank 1, if we can believe EPS: Uh, losing what? EECOM: Tank 1 pressure! EPS: Yeah! EECOM: Do you think we blew the manifold? EPS: It looks pretty good that we blew it Oh yes, they sure did blow the manifold, and They blew the whole tank. Sy will never bother to answer Gene's question. He has already moved to the next step. Tank 2 is a goner. Instead, he immediately focuses on a few more EPS asks that they try to turn on the heater back up. Tank 1 is now around 320 psi and dropping. They need to beg for 5 Amps of power to turn FLIGHT: Capcom, we want to get cryo O2 tank CAPCOM: Roger, copy that, and we'd like to So turn the heaters on manually, we'll watch EECOM: Okay, 26.9V FLIGHT: Did you see a 5A increase coming through Eecom? EECOM: Do you see 5A increase here Dick? EPS: That's affirm FLIGHT: Okay We'll watch the pressure. OK, this better works, or our Fuel Cell 3 How does the pressure look, Sy? EECOM: ECS Eecom EECOM: It looks grim! EPS: Yes it does EPS: Just went down! EECOM: It's going down, we're losing it! EPS: Yes we are. We are in serious problem if we can't get some more here And luckily we've got the LM EECOM: That's right, we're gonna get it all the way down gonna lose this third fuel cell Sy has realized it's an abandon ship situation. He tells flight to get the crew in the LM, the TELMU, to better get ready for an emergency EECOM: Flight Eecom EECOM: The pressure in O2 tank 1 is all the You better think about getting in the LM, TELMU: Go ahead Eecom of losing all three fuel cells. So you guys get yourself geared up, okay? TELMU: Rog we are working on right this minute... EECOM: Get your power procedure now. You guys had one worked out already, I think, TELMU: That's right It's about 40 minutes after the accident. Sy has only one question for EPS now: how running out of power in the command module? EPS: Eecom? EECOM: Go we've got about 1 hour and 54 minutes left Which is about the end of it for the fuel EECOM: Uh, Flight, we are gonna hit 100 PSI That's the end, right there. From there on, it's a mad rush for an emergency down of the CM. But there will not be quite enough time before Which brings us to the subject of the battery So we are back in DC land, and there are a in particular battery Bus A and battery Bus service module battery backup added later, at a measly 40 amp hour each. These were only meant for powering the Command There a was provision to throw the batteries spike. This was done by connecting, or tying, the of motorized relays. A few minutes into the accident, the ground Tie, which will tie Battery Bus A with Main Bus A, with backup Battery C on standby, this out the struggling fuel cell 2. EECOM: Stand by, Flight. Go EPS EECOM: Okay EPS: Until we are sorted out. We're getting undervolt. EECOM: Flight, Eecom EECOM: Okay. If we want to keep main... SWIGERT: Houston, are you still reading 13? EECOM: Stand by, he's finishing... CAPCOM: Affirmative, we are reading you battery A on main A now HAISE: OK Bus Tie A/C on But as the situation gets worse, Houston needs the crew to take the tie off. The astronauts immediately know why, realizing part of their re-entry battery for the better EECOM: Flight, Eecom EECOM: We really gotta get that battery off FLIGHT: OK Sy, now how long to you want to EECOM: I want to try to get it off as quick EECOM: You want that battery off the line EPS: Yeah. We can take it off now Flight Eecom EECOM: Let's take battery A off the main EECOM: That's right even with the cry 2 going down? EECOM: That's affirm, Flight What's your worry level on cry O2? EECOM: Say again, Flight? FLIGHT: OK, you want to... EECOM: I want to save the battery, Flight Pulling the battery A off, Capcom SWIGERT: That's right, we were pulling current LOVELL: Battery A off, roger However, an hour later, at the tail end of going to make it, and they desperately need platform going, until they are able to transfer They are now caught between a rock and hard Flight director Glynn Lunney decides, rightly, platform over saving the batteries. They had just started to recharge battery FLIGHT: Capcom, Flight FLIGHT: When we get a little low, we are going we get them put it on Main Bus A. We are then going to hold up the IMU long And then we'll see whether we are going to But for right now we are running the profile, And keeping the coarse align they will, this They will do a free return trajectory burn to attempt a platform star alignment for the the Moon. After that, they'll finally turn the LM save LM power. Now, they are still not out of the woods in They need to recharge their reentry battery They will do it, thanks to a cable meant to a hacked procedure to use it in reverse, involving [John Aaron, EECOM] There was a normal process the Moon, that the command module supplied What you could do through a precarious route, transfer come backwards. Somehow we could arrange the circuitry, such inside the Command Module, out of all the breakers, was just this little thing called And we sent the crew over this checklist, this little multi-page checklist, with hundreds on it, to actually get to the battery charger. But it worked! [Marc] Alright, you are now Apollo spacecraft follow the raw Apollo 13 accident audio, which call you'll ever hear. I'll link it in the doodly-doo. But let's get back to opening our inverter, video. I know, we got sidetracked a bit... [Marc] And this one, you identified? [Mike] Yeah, it has written on the side here: B/P 14, boilerplate 14, was the North American So this was the spacecraft that they had in all their integration testing on. Block 2 is very similar from the specification It looks like they may have combined all of You can see, it was laying on the floor of So, laying upside down. The three inverters were wedged under the to the curved edge of the heat shield, laying And somebody apparently had that in his aircraft And they had put goop on it, and there were We cleaned it up. So it sat on a hot plate - on a hot plate Which has a leak in it, it has a patch on And there is this really heavy copperish material, But somebody had added some goop on it, which So we removed it as best as we could. So, this one has seen some amateur use. But it's a cool thing to have in your aircraft! Yeah, we don't know what's in there. There was a screw missing, there's some stuff So we're going to look at this stuff in there. Right away there was something cheesy with Screws were missing, nuts were heard falling material. So we took the Depstek endoscope, and got quite right. [Marc] A mouse! [Eric] Almost looks like it, but it's not. [Marc] So it doesn't look pretty inside. I'm not sure if it's asbestos-y. Why would you put that in there? From then on, our voices will be a bit muffled, And it turned out to be a good decision. The screws or whatever was welded at the bottom, some of them went loose. So this has had a tough life. That's the weirdest piece of Apollo equipment It's filled with this crap. That would be an insulator. It's very very light. Yeah, I think you're right, it's - how do [Eric] Vermiculite. [Mike] Yeah. [Marc] Oh no, someone filled the thing with This was a test unit, so it was not potted, it. So probably the person that used it in his to pot it with vermiculite. Which is very light and insulating. In fact, being an incredibly good thermal you'd want to fill a power supply with. And to top it off, it's extremely toxic. Vermiculite is laced with the most deadly Good thing we put our N95 masks on, but we Okay, so we're back at the inverter, the deadly Should be fairly clean, but we masked up just Well, should be fairly clean, I'm sure there's It's a little sketch. So you see, this is the 28 volt input, and the holder of that cap over here. This is very tight. There's another point you can see over here I saw another one that... Yeah, I bent that one up, because it was so So it's a little sketch, you have three of These guys are actually not transistors, they They only have two connections to it, this a lot of them, so that's on purpose. We will have a lot of capacitors to check. Plenty plenty plenty plenty plenty. 100 micro. Lots of caps on this side. Oh that's an SCR. That is the main inverter. Lots of transformers of course. There's a huge one in the middle. Underneath here, I think, that's a big transformer. Some more out here. A bit of a scary monster, that is. We cleaned it off the best we could, but this on it. To make things worse, there were obvious signs We don't have the schematics, but we have of how it works. It's all solid state, they use thyristors, The final upvoltage conversion is done by transformer to create an efficient power unit, We went as far as testing a few capacitors. We can't really work on repairing this unit, One bad capacitor, and that would be the end [Marc] Testing the caps in circuit, I guess, [Mike] Yeah. [Marc] I bent it up because this was like [Mike] Man, Block 1! [Marc] So, my idea was just, check a few caps. 3.8 microfarad! That starts good. 3.8, okay. 12 microfarad, so that looks okay. 100 microfarads, 92 microfarads, well that's 550 microfarad! What's up? Some with too much capacitance? Should we complain about it? 47, well they're all reasonably capacitive. [Mike] hmm-hm. [Marc] 34, 36, and 35. So man, looks reasonable to me. Okay, so the ones that are spot checkable, Over here, some over there. It's full of caps basically. [Mike] Yes. [Marc] 2.5 microfarads on the dot. [Mike] Yeah, 60 MFD. [Marc] This big fellow reads 2.5 micro, but So I got the end out of it, so we can test 6 - no, 65 nanofarads. Oh that's bad. This one looks like it's a capacitor no more. Yeah, so, the 1.8 microfarad is from the connection Okay, so, we have one bad one. Which probably tells us, we just give up. [Mike] Yep. [Marc] 659 nanofarad. So we have one example of one that died, which They are so many capacitors all over the place. [Mike] Yeah. [Marc] We pack it all back together. [Mike] Return to sender! [Marc] We send it back. Oh dang, I would have wanted to give it a [Mike] I'd be really curious to see what a considering they didn't change the part number. They changed the dash number, but not the [Marc] I'm being nice to the next owner of I'm making sure I put some tape. It's cloth tape. It's period correct, from teletype, it's just And places where there was stuff that could And our dodgy one behind the 28 volt input. So if somebody tries to fire it up, at least So it's all buttoned up, and Eric, who did But that's it, bye bye inverter, I don't think So we sealed it up in plastic bags and will off to wash every surface in the lab. At least it taught us a bit about the command of Apollo 13. So, don't use collectible Apollo inverters of crack ground controllers to get your back,