We knew that the James Webb Space Telescope the mysterious early epoch of the universe. For example, there are hints that the galaxies than expected given the short amount of time But perhaps no one was expecting that we powered by dark matter and shining Which, by the way, might help us explain those In April, a paper was published in Nature four objects - JADES-GS-z10-0 We'll call these z10 through z13 for short. Not very poetic, but space is so big we ran Admittedly, these don't look all that impressive. They're basically just dots, but that's resolve. So you'll have to trust me and be impressed Why? Because these are among the oldest and most Z13 and z12 actually are the current second objects whose distances are actually confirmed, They were discovered as part of the JWST Advanced - whose mission is to study the very first This is only possible with JWST because of It can see stars whose energetic ultraviolet infrared wavelengths as it traveled to us Some of these things are over 30 billion light to us for most of the age of the universe. We're looking at the cosmos as it was only or around 3% or less of its current age. Based on the brightness of these blobs, at galaxies. But enormous ones, at some hundreds of millions Such big galaxies are common enough in the galaxies so big back then, when they'd had The issue with the big early galaxies discovered and some pretty out-there speculation. That said, let's at least entertain the truly weird here. After all, these are the cosmic dark ages of pristine hydrogen forged in the Big Bang shrouded our vision across spectrum. It's a time when that same pristine hydrogen more massive than today. Who knows what else might be lurking there Perhaps, here be dragons. Or perhaps here be dark stars. That's the assertion of a new paper was Academy of Sciences. The idea that three of these four The original idea for dark stars and collaborators back in 2007, but this is the first time we've seen I should point out that the term dark star 1783 to describe a very early incarnation But these new dark stars aren't that. These aren't even dark. They are super bright. But how can dark matter, which is meant to much of the stuff? Before we build our own dark star, we're going For example it doesn't work if dark matter It has to be some kind of new undiscovered the particle has to follow to be able to make First, it has to obey the main rule of all with itself. That means one dark matter particle can't super close. That enables dark matter to avoid collapsing to explain how it remains as a giant puffy On the other hand, particles in a cloud of a kind of internal friction that saps kinetic shrink to form stars. But with very little self-interaction, dark One type of strong interaction that is doubly Dark matter can't emit or absorb photons and we need that for dark matter to remain dark. The second rule for making dark stars is that, strongly with itself, it some weak self-interaction. This interaction strength has to be tuned almost no interaction due to the particles But if we can get those dark matter particles This allows the dark matter cloud to collapse, extreme circumstances. But more importantly, it allows And that's the last requirement. For our dark matter particles to form dark This could mean the particle allowing any two particles to self-annihilate if they get too close. That's the assumption in the recent paper. But this could also work if antimatter comes The key is that the annihilation happens when Now that we know what type of dark matter that actually exists in the universe. This isn't unreasonable--popular candidates fit these requirements. So we're going to fill our early universe evenly across all of space. We'll also add some hydrogen and helium And finally we have small fluctuations in higher density that would pull on the surrounding in the universe. The seeds of the first giant stars would have to hundreds of millions of times the Sun's The dark matter part would have a hard time However the gas in that halo would fall towards star, depending on how large this halo was. Now, as we discussed in our recent episode, the gravitational pull of regular matter. And that's what happens here. The growing density of gas in the center of inwards. The density of dark matter inside the central than we see in the modern universe. And this is where our dark star is born. The amount of dark matter inside the star the mass of the gas. But its concentration is trillions of times That means its particles can find each They annihilate, releasing an enormous amount of very fast moving decay products. That energy release heats up the surrounding any further. The gas ball never gets dense enough for form But that doesn't matter, because the dark energy than a regular star ever could. Our newborn dark star starts out as a bloated and several times the mass of the Sun. But then it grows, pulling more gas and surrounding young universe. It grows in size several times, perhaps to to millions of times the mass of the Sun. At that size, it's glowing billions of times bright enough to be seen by JWST Ok, let's assume for a moment What happened to them? Eventually the dark matter would annihilate the gas cloud from collapsing. However it's also possible that a dark star in dark matter from the surrounding halo. Either way, when it's done - be it millions no longer supported it would probably collapse This is actually a nice We know there are giant black holes in the holes seem to have grown very quickly in the Perhaps dark stars give us a way to produce of mass that could then grow into the billion first quasars shining out of the early universe. So are dark stars one of those speculations refute? Fortunately not. There are some pretty straightforward observations massive early galaxy. We can do that from the signature wavelengths in whatever these objects are. When we split the light of a star into component see that there are chunks taken out of the These are absorption line, and happen because absorbed at very particular wavelengths by On the other hand, a galaxy spectrum tends This is light from cold gas in between the starlight. It gives us the colours you might be familiar Now if we can get high quality spectra of these lines indicates a galaxy, but if there are that would suggest a single star. And with that crazy luminosity, the dark star Of course, it could be a mix -- a small galaxy the spectra will help identify that case too. Of course those distant blobs might just be For a very clear take on these supposedly some of the hype, check out Dr. Becky's OK, so what do we have? Dark stars or galaxies? Well, galaxies seem more likely if only because still so speculative. But this is an exciting case where we have there are clear observations we can make that'll Whether or not these things turn out to be about that mysterious epoch when the very first of spacetime. Before you go we are excited to of science shows coming to PBS Terra. in which biologist Shane Campbell-Staton to us. The first episode explores how we humans in some very unexpected ways. So if you'd how the world is changing or if you just like Also consider subscribing to Terra if you want Today we're doing comment responses for the possibility that the speed of light is variable. gravitational wave background with the pulsar whether the standard model that astrophysicists Starting with the variable speed of light though. Spindash64 asks whether a rapid decrease the same thing as a dramatic increase in apparent expansion of the universe as a slowing and people have tried. In fact Robert Dicke terms of a variable speed of light. But this of general relativity--the warpable, stretchable Will Dye asks what if the one-way choosing all possible speeds just as Well will this what-if is a reasonable statement calculating the trajectories of quantum light travels many paths with many speeds they cancel out leaving only the most probable light and traveling at close to light speed--or Okay, onto the gravitational wave background. Sudoboat asks whether the Pulsar Timing Array data is public. The answer is yes. Google Nanograv data 12.5 year data release and a link to the paper with it. But seriously guys unless you're really planning to do something with it, please don't spam their server too much. AmblesJambles asks whether gravitational waves black holes right before they merge. The are subject to gravitational lensing. Grav the fabric of spacetime. Gravitational waves travel along whatever weird shape spacetime finds focused by large masses such as galaxies. In the very large apparent masses observed result of lensing of those waves increasing their from bigger mergers. This isn't the generally As for whether a merging supermassive black Well sort of. Before the merger, the waves emerged encounter complex gravitational field, and that waves. But this isn't the same classic focusing, In a related question, Naimah92 asks if so are gravitational waves subject to refraction. whether gravitational waves always travel at The way to slow a gravitational wave would be medium in which the waves are continuously way. With light that means passing it through of gravity is mass, so it's conceivable could slow a wave - I dunno, a cloud of black but I did find at least one paper that gravitational waves using a superconducting mass movement is possible for electron pairs obviously be very handy if you want to check Okay, finally onto the episode about dark matter. inujosha asks: given that only usually cold gas can form stars, and since dark matter is cold, could a dark is yes - they're called dark stars, and as chance But to recap, normally dark matter can't form enough to shed the orbital angular moment of shrink down and reach the high densities needed dark matter particles can be cold but still @a3d4e asks what if dark matter doesn't exist, to be revised at scale? It's such a great question possibility, and are still doing so. But it's really is some time of stuff out there, rather expect. One big reason for that is that we see light matter, like the the bullet cluster or little dark matter. If dark matter was just then we'd at least expect it to always be i.e_Above11D says if you listen carefully you Well I object to the object to the idea that I've been replaced. That implies I was ever meat-based. The evidence to the contrary is abundant. For one thing, how do you