Champion of the World, We put down no fewer than Grygorovych, check out the shit Enough sitting home, The main thing is not to be - You're our No. 1 request. The fans demand You're at the top I can't imagine why. You want me to press - Just don't point that thing at me. You're one of the old guards, right? I've been fighting the war since 2014. Remember how back in 2014 when Donetsk was almost under control And then, the Russian army --two VDV regiments, They promised our guys a 'green corridor', but instead of the 'green corridor' the Russian tanks murdered our troops as we were pulling out of Ilovaisk. That was a back-breaking moment. I suspect, that we had traitors helping the Russians. Are you one of those that Russia will invade again, I left military service in 2020 to spend a year at home, I didn't think about it at all. Sure, I heard all kind of rumors, but I thought the Russians encroach in the Donetsk I never imagined it would be with them attempting to enter Kyiv... When it all started, - At the beginning of the invasion, 'high-tech guerilla warfare'. But how can one call when we are clearly reverting to the realities and methods --trenches, mud, artillery... By the way, wise men say: &quot;An artillery commander &quot;about how much training you've had But I wouldn't go as far as to say Look at all the drones. Look at the infantry gear: nearly every squad every third soldier and all those other trinkets. So, I won't call it a 'low-tech' war. But far more important than the trinkets, we need to achieve Right now, they have in the best-case scenario. It's the same with the tanks, Unless we reach some kind of parity the war will drag on much longer. Are we gonna do some shootin' ? Some shootin' and some killin'... Why did you choose And what was your war path I joined the Azov Regiment Prior to that, I was in the Right Sector. I didn't get to see much action there. But then, I received a call &quot;Yo, why are you sitting home? &quot;We've arranged everything. So, I packed my shit, and the next day we were Things were simpler back then. What was your military profession? At first I was a loader Then the gunner, I even participated in artillery duels. Four times. We've won all of them, 'Cause they shot straight at us, - Blindly or guided by drones? There was either a Furia - And them, an Orlan? Fug knows... But it was really scary. Then in 2017, I transferred as an AA missile operator, but on the battlefield I served with a shovel instead of a Stinger. - Sing us a song. Vamonos, amigos! I'm uncomfortable in the extreme. - Let me show them the side view. There's no fucking space for my noggin. You'll need a can opener - In March 2022, Moschun was a total hellfuck. To be perfectly honest, 'Cause the war in the Donbas compared to what There were a lot of 'firsts' in Moschun: the first time a helicopter attacked us, the first time a jet plane And we're like, &quot;WTF is this? But you tighten your sphincter Because what else can you do? And then you went to Zaporizhya? It was our ill-fated &quot;Operation 21&quot; --the attempt to deblockade Mariupol. I thought we all gonna die there. We had no resources to break and had to pull back. But my commander &quot;Rollo&quot; in all the gory details. He tells it much better than I do. I was convinced ...but went anyway. The main thing is not to be That's the most important thing, So, brothers, shall we go? - Valhalla! - Tell us about your What do you remember the most? And what would you do differently? The most recent operation was I was mostly at the command post, handling coordination and to some extent What I remember is constant shelling, and the never-ending The guys on the forward positions the enemy infantry like in World War I --herds of orcs, 30 at a time, Whiskey... Tango... Foxtrot! The dumbasses seem to And those in command don't seem to give a damn and drive the grunts to slaughter --not even like peons, --onto our machine guns, My guys had two Brownings, and the Russians We put down no fewer than But they kept sending in new ones. Unbe-fkn-lievable! In my unit, every soul counts. Every soldier We care and worry And when one of us falls in combat, We do have NODs, thermal optics, And the training is a notch better. Many of us served in the Azov Regiment So, we already had And in the last nine months, Champion of the World... The Tactical Tiger... Artem Kukuruza! - I thought that all that talk about the Russians drowning us but it's for real... That's exactly how it was The Russians sent in and we ground them And after that, came in more or less who moved in pairs, utilized snipers, Everything is as it should be But still, we held our positions And the PMC &quot;Wagner&quot; losses than those among We have drone footage: a trench full of dead &quot;Wagners&quot; and next to that pile of stiffs stands a couple of clowns yapping about something. Or that video crawling over their own dead... This goes against We can't do it like them. We don't have such vast And it would be exceptionally stupid And for what purpose? - I once saw a Russian trench A vehicle arrived, and they basically stood Yeah, I saw that too. There was a lot of such stuff. A lot of things that I haven't seen anything like that Utter disregard for human life... The Russians don't give a flying fig You're fighting the PMC &quot;Wagner&quot;, In terms of ideology and in terms of They know how to fight, - Even considering the inadequate Don't forget, &quot;Wagner&quot; has units especially the ones that gained But they are warriors without honor. Look at how they treat it does them little honor. How would I characterize &quot;Wagner&quot;? They are my enemies. Period. Orcs... An orcish horde, - They certainly act like a horde-- They spend away ammunition, they use up batteries for the drones, And when it's all used up, and try to finish the job - And? They also die. We terminate them Realize, it's much easier You know why? A merc also wants to live. You turn up the heat, and the buttocks - And I thought it was the stories about the Russians But it's happening in real life-- I'll tell you about a media fabrication: that 300,000 'partially mobilized' Even if they are complete dummies, each of them is capable of taking And even if it takes it's still a painful loss for us. Or that other nonsense you hear on TV about the old Soviet T-62 tanks Did you look carefully? It's a tank that comes out together with your unprotected ass. - And they don't seem to be They're like the cherry on top Any old tank is still a tank. Even if it's a T-34 from a museum. It has a cannon--it's a tank. - And God forbid, someone that costs more than that damn tank. Daily mail. - Oh, I was just about to go for #2. The Russians are saying, The dill-eaters (Ukrainians) Well, shit, Gryhorovych, come take a look - Let's talk about the eternal. Human stupidity? - No, art. Can you recommend I liked &quot;Black Hawk Down&quot; a lot. And also that Ukrainian film &quot;Chervonyi&quot; And the film with Mel Gibson, the one about the Vietnam War. What about &quot;Saving Private Ryan&quot;? Dude, that's a classic. - The coolest war movie ever. Every time I get the blues ...and my mood gets even worse. When I was small, I dreamed of growing up And then I grew up... ...and became a tank. You studied various conflicts and wars. Which ones were the most interesting I gained a lot from studying Back then, Grozny in Chechnya was --they couldn't take it for about six months. The siege lasted 180 days, I think. I find the spirit of the Chechen warriors - Which book influenced you the most? The most influential? The Army Field Manual. It has to be the best book And it's probably the most useful book Even reading a portion of it A lot. As for the fine literature: I really liked and &quot;In Storms of Steel&quot; Of everything I've read recently, You only read about war? What else is there? The war is here, And here, in my heart. Thank you for your support.