According to some scientists, the secret to eternal youth The fruits that grow there apparently contain Looking at Jaime, who's 80 years old, In Peru, this force of nature which he sells as fuel. Unbelievably, no one helps which could do with a facelift itself. My van is 35 years old, Let's go! Jaime's bones are about to be shaken, but what does that matter It's been a long time but I don't transport passengers anymore, When it was new, everything worked, I think it's coming I'll sell it to a scrap man soon. However, Jaime will keep his van going. The wood trade is his only way I started working when I was very young. I've done all sorts of jobs. I've been a farmer, and I also had a bar I get up every day at 5:00 a.m. In Peru, if you don't get up early, Jaime is right, It has to be said On one side is the Andes mountain range, On the other, Covering 60% of the country, the rainforest is certainly home This doesn't make it easy Danger is constant, From the back, the driver is blind. Roni has to tell him which way to go Whatever happens, You have to accept reality. We could have been crushed It's not the end of the world. In Peru, there's just one motto: In the valley of the Ene River, virgin forest gives way who are continually Ignacio buys cacao and coffee from them, However, his most successful product Five kilograms, another 12 kilograms. Ignacio and his wife have developed Five kilograms. The only problem is reaching the crops. Twelve kilograms. They are situated in the mountains especially in this tin can. At 60 years old, the old American military truck However, in Ignacio's eyes, This metal you see is solid, It's not like the bodywork I've just changed my petrol engine It makes life easier and uses less fuel, so I save money. Many traders have transformed by adding a tipper Tomorrow, Ignacio and his driver into the mountains However, before he goes, Ignacio is slipping After a day of working as a trader, in the evening, I never wanted to become a pastor, Being a pastor is about knowing things, I'm here to serve, not to be served. The evangelical pastor's sermons often refer to the difficult life -Glory to God! Glory to God, glory to God! Father, with all these roads These are the trials you give us We will rise to them. God, you are our guide, Glory to God, glory to God, glory to God! The Lord has not yet given Ignacio but he's not one to complain. When you are a pastor, you don't get paid. We have to work As the Bible says: &quot;By the sweat Thanks to my work, When Ignacio goes to load up the bananas, Let's go. She worries every time he leaves. The roads are really bad, The truck could get stuck. Sometimes, they have to sleep on the road. I'm always worried. The banana fields can be found but along mountain tracks that the Amazon rainforest Here we go. We're on our way We're going to face but nothing is impossible However, his unwavering faith Come on, let's go! We're up against the mountain now! It's only going to get harder from here. Careful, careful. Pretty quickly, We must absolutely avoid Stop, don't come any further! Wait, it won't go through. Not for sure, no. We need some trunks to fill in the hole. It's a small miracle or divine help. A farmer has left Where should I put it? One here, the other there. We're going to need more trunks. Otherwise, it'll collapse. Bring some more trunks. Ignacio hopes that, filled in like this, of all four tons of American steel. -Look out! We've got to have faith, Let's go! Keep going! The trunks withstand it, but not the path. Get the pickaxe out. In the Peruvian mountains, We need to get rid of that too. Come on! We'll get out of this hole, let's go! Great! With my friends and the help of God, Come on, let's move forward! Religion is not the only thing For one thing, The difficulties he faces are nothing compared during the armed conflict against the communist guerrillas One day, when we came through this village children, teenagers, and pregnant women, They were all dismembered and decapitated. This village has suffered a lot and is still affected In 20 years, this internal war and created thousands of victims. The guerrillas abducted young adults who lived in the mountains Ignacio was one of those taken, he became one of their slaves They made us take up arms and fight against those It was like living in darkness. Families no longer slept, as they knew the Shining Path men When I come through here, I cry. It still hurts me, and it's a pain Come on. The path that leads still has some nasty surprises Ignacio's region where there is little The Ashaninka people Many dangers hang over their heads, and the villagers to fight against them. These men are part of the Campari Community Having seen off they are now facing a new threat: Drug traffickers and they have a lot of weapons. We always patrol and an armed man as we could be ambushed. The group has only two guns so it's a very unfair fight. Those are coca plants, The cocaleros made the most of the chaos to take hold of the land, They also have labs At first, they grow the coca on plots of land However, nowadays, the drug traffickers We haven't had a lot of help and driving these guys out We can't count on the police either, The first small town and once again, the end of the journey as a flood The patrols the group organize are not meant That would be impossible. Rather, they mean to warn them The Ashaninka tribe so without their fields, In this region, the state's abandonment This is the bed for the babies. Look, there's nothing, not even a doctor. When a doctor comes, This woman came here Her son is very sick, he has a fever, Who is going to help us? When children die, is it our fault? No, it's the absent doctor's In Peru, 40% of indigenous people making them easy targets leading many to start growing coca plants. This man is trying to stop The aptly named Angel is also indigenous, but he's unusual He has set up an association to take care Sometimes, but it's not enough. If my fellow Ashaninkas they must learn to sell their fruit If they made better money, they would no longer have any issues To this end, Angel suggests alternatives These solutions should help them so that they become profitable. To achieve this, and he also The rain causes landslides, They've been lucky this time, just before the cars passed through. Landslides are common They are like a tsunami of land and water, sweeping away drivers as happened on this day in March 2022. The rain isn't the only thing to blame. Uncontrolled building works and a lack of investment also contribute Each time he travels these paths, Angel asks himself will manage to develop their businesses. The track is really bad, the Ashaninka people will never be able Right here, many cars fell into the river. Angel is right, poor-quality roads are crippling Drivers of heavy-weight vehicles how to make deliveries quickly or breaking everything. Unlike other things, and it's the drivers for bringing them here. I've been broken down here for three days. I'm starving. Luckily, some colleagues Today, I've had nothing to eat, nothing. Gerardo would rather not eat If it goes missing, he has to pay for it. Petrol is expensive right now. It wouldn't be hard to steal it, they'd just need to decant it all Luckily for him, That will be his only meal for today. Daily life for drivers here a living hell The roads are wrecked, I travel with my wife, unlike other drivers The road is so bad that you need someone to help put down wood The couple mainly travel together, Ignacio owns his lorry, and make several he'd be able to make more money I make between EUR630 or 2,500 soles We've both made a lot of sacrifices. Sometimes we don't sleep, I've got four children: I miss them, they're still little, but I don't have a choice, He's going to need her help. I'll check the state of the road The situation isn't too bad, is that they aren't Other drivers are already hard at work. We have to get rid of all the mud. If we don't clear the road, The task is huge, but not impossible. Three hours later, It was a huge scare Sonya is relieved, but also very angry. It maddens me to see drivers This road is hellish. It takes us four days and it's like that on every journey. We're always stuck. Sonya, her husband, and the other lorry drivers The trucks won't be covered The humid climate of the Amazon and the steep mountains make it is time-intensive and expensive That's why just over half that make up the road network In the Amazon, that require a little less investment. On the largest river in the world, and boats have replaced cars. The thousands of waterways enable the community to get around Careful, there are some whirlpools. Watch out, careful, Gregorio! However, these amazing lifelines Floating buses connect villages The boats can carry 70 passengers They are essential especially as certain villages Pablo is an Ashaninka indigenous person. He's off to plead He hopes to convince them A Macaw parrot feather is on this crown I wear it because it shows This ancestral outfit is a way as they too wear hats In my village, the farmers have no road to transport their harvests We urgently need a road to be built, Transporting our goods way too expensive, At around EUR7 each way, it really is too expensive but a boat uses a lot more petrol and the risk of sinking is ever-present. This is why Roni acts as a lookout. The whirlpools and swirls The waves fill up the boat, and if the boat is full What's even worse is that there is a whole load ready to pierce the hull From the back, the driver is blind. Roni has to tell him which way to go In the Amazon, passengers are never whether by land or by water. It's impossible to know but in 2021, 11 people drowned Roni will guide his boat with no problems As a storm breaks out, There are very few cars in Atalaya, so everyone uses Where are you going? We're going to the village, In Atalaya, there are 35,000 Driving one Fares are extremely low. The drivers work hard I make around EUR24 a day. It's hard, I can't always treat my kids. Without the motorcycle taxis, the Amazonian farmers to sell their crops However, a considerable into getting these fruits Ignacio and his team In five hours, out of the 30 they need to. The path that leads is making things more and more difficult. Go forward. Wait, go that way. Go on, go on, come on! Let's get the machete out. We need to cut down the branches. When the truck starts skidding you have to be able We're like a family, we pull together. It's important in the Amazon The road reminds him What a difficult slope, this is awful! It's really steep. Come on, come on, come on! We've got to get the chain out. We won't manage without it. It's hard work, That's what the roads are like Ignacio trained his young driver, Without the pastor, Eder would have headed down This young man has earned all my respect, Since I met Eder, as he doesn't have parents anymore. His mother died in childbirth, I left my grandmother's house because my aunts didn't count me I felt rejected by everyone. Therefore, I decided to run away, I slept in parks, I ate bananas, apples, and clementines. Eder's difficult childhood Six years after he was taken Ignacio managed to escape. However, when he got back his father abused him. At the age of 13, and begged on the street. It was at this time that God spoke to me. I understood that he was saying: &quot;Become someone and help orphans.&quot; This helped me, There we go, I think it's okay. We're past the worst now. After eight hours of grueling road, Eder is a little tired. Come here, Jaime. Come see, there are bananas. Ignacio has negotiated but for this price, The benefit with the banana tree is that they can cut it because it isn't a tree, In three months They're still ripening, This whole journey was worth it, they would have spoiled, It's getting late, we must get a move on. Nothing is wasted, as the banana leaves and stop it from ripening. However, there is no guarantee that they or the ton of bananas Just like there's no guarantee A worrying phenomenon is spreading. Each year, more and more banana trees die Look, there are grubs and they're killing the banana trees. We need insecticides to get rid of them, It's a well-known fact is another's opportunity. Maria Cruz cooks grubs in various sauces. That one is small, I have a customer who will eat Served with a grilled banana, this is a special dish What's more, Firstly, they're delicious, and secondly, they treat your bronchial tubes. There you go, eating grubs might be The scourge is putting indigenous farmers' as they don't have the means It's an awful disease for our community. Therefore, some Ashaninka people as the work is easy and drug traffickers Angel is trying to reverse this trend. Through his association, he visits Ashaninka villages by diversifying their crops. We have taken a chance on cacao because they're legal. If the harvests are good, the indigenous people and their families won't have to worry about going to prison. Cacao is a good alternative to coca The village is in sight, a whole day to travel just 150 kilometers. This might not have been as he now has to convince to abandon their coca plants for cacao. I'm standing here in front of you to ask that you no longer and stop growing coca plants. If you want to benefit from our program, the whole community I would like you all A few kilometers away, This plantation is a real success. The indigenous people earn a better, There you have it, Our cacao is natural and organic, and it isn't treated We've managed to sell it in Australia Thanks to this, we can show the world that the Ashaninka people to produce and respond Now, the Ashaninka people to rebuild the roads and look toward a comfortable future. This life is no longer possible. After having spent eight hours that separate them Ignacio and his team What I'm going to do is turn and dig so that the truck can turn like that. There's not much room to turn around. You need to do it like that. Let's see how we'll get out of this one. Come on, come on! Careful! Each time the wheels turn, the team takes a risk Including transport costs, while Ignacio resells it for just EUR0.18. The people in Lima who buy our bananas Most of the time, They don't understand Most of all, The river crossing The wheels kick up pebbles, The pedestrians are the only ones Once they're out of the water, a little tarmac provides some relief but it's too late, Something must have happened in the river. It's overheating, There's no water left in the radiator. A stone must have and damaged it. We must go through this type It's not God's fault, It's not that bad, and Eder and Ignacio are intent a very long time. There we go. This is what's damaged. We'll have to take it Spare parts for this truck so they repair it piece by piece. It must be said that certain garage owners It got damaged I'm a radiator doctor, of any kind of radiator: and even planes if necessary! As we can't find the original parts, that we sand down and weld. Look, compare it to the old one. The holes in the radiator How much do I owe you? That would be 160, Here you go, 100, 50. Around 11:00 p.m., No one complains, and indeed, the evangelist in Ignacio You have to accept reality. We could have been crushed This breakdown We should thank God for our good luck. We're alive, in good health, There we are, let's go! Are we good? It's taken them 20 hours The next morning, They have to load the truck for the cooperative Eighteen tons of bananas, a huge number, Their sweat earned them EUR3,240. According to Ignacio, That's enough for us to live comfortably. I can take care of my family, look after my house, It's enough for us. The important thing is that and buy the produce from the farmers It's like our daily bread. We try to buy at a good and fair price. Peruvians have a saying: he who moves forward Ignacio and the other indigenous people By joining forces, they will make changes, and perhaps one day,