This is Tony's Tony's costs more than bar. But how does it Tony's tastes a lot more real chocolate. I could eat more of this So if we look at dollar chocolate. We spent $19 about 6% in 2023 over I would pay double price It's also more ethical, The company started by first. With its bold and colorful brand is trying to make chocolate 100% slave Today, 60% of the world's from Ghana and the Ivory million children work on As Tony's, we're not doing it the right way We're interested in industry. Tony's Chocolonely brought in fiscal year 2023. So how did a relatively make a place for itself aisles? The great thing about chocolate company is you chocolate every day, so I'm Douglas Lamont and at Tony's Chocolonely. So even though we're a founding story actually In 2001, two US Harkin-Engel protocol, an that was signed by eight brands, including The goal? To end child chocolate industry. Two years later, a team including Teun van de investigate the progress made. There were still huge working illegally on Africa. They felt very to change and needed to How did they go about it? Well, as well as decided that they were arrested. And Tony walked the Netherlands, having from one of the big insisted that he was aware that there was this chocolate bar. And aware of something and happen and you you're breaking the law four years. Obviously the rather strangely and with this. Teune also decided to persuade chocolate makers to Willy Wonka, the Charlie film, was launching in They tried to persuade to that bar, to introduce They couldn't do that and to launch a bar for And that is how Tony's So, Tony, because Teune, international name is Chocolonely because they very lonely journey to But what we've also done inequality and the supply our bar does not look And what that symbolizes supply chain that, you big chunk, other people In fact, some of the the West African sources its cocoa beans. As a Dutch brand, it famous and grew very the leading chocolate bar From about 2014-15 expand internationally. Tony's Chocolonely was 2015. Today, Tony's bars major retailers like Walmart. The US is clearly a really not not just because of know, we really see that becoming more conscious they buy, the brands from behind those brands, you at Tony's, we offer and And that seems to be Our most popular flavor bar. It's universally by our milk bar. Tony's Chocolonely is in a very crowded field. The top five manufacturers sales. So if we look at players that are out 150 manufacturers sales greater than $1 Tony's revenue grew 23% in million. It also received funding. While the at a steady pace, it's We're not profitable. We're at a break-even company, we're making growth in the US market. We've just launched and capacity in Chicago investment. What we know demonstrate that we can business, proving that distribution charity, but business is part of our Besides its main chocolate Chocolonely also has a Open Chain. So any brand or any source cocoa from Tony's their supply chain. In an ideal world that Tony's Chocolonely, we to 5% of the cocoa beans Africa, and that's only come on board with us and faster than just the Tony's Chocolonely. Tony's recently partnered conscious brand Ben and They've made a commitment cocoa beans for their ice Tony's open chain. And so for a big brand a high commitment to on board with Tony's open did, to compare it to the good work they were ground and decide that way forward, was a big our teams have done on We have 100% traceability We know every farmer that so obviously we source In West Africa, we beans into cocoa butter i We then transport some butter to either to that's turned into liquid all the interesting, into bars. Tony's Chocolonely is by addressing the root a living wage. What happens is those have labor to support their children end up farms. In 2021, Tony's was free chocolate list relationship with Callebaut, which it used liquid chocolate. The defense that its cocoa in Barry Callebaut's partnership with the scale up its production In a statement to CNBC Chocolonely said it will beans from West Africa as problems there. So what we believe in is So we report on every that we find in order to And it's only by being problem and then actively deal with the systemic In fiscal year 2023, the had found around 1,000 in its supply chain. Chocolate consumption in in 2023, but Americans than ever on it. Well, part of the reason in consumption is that love chocolate, are still prices. In 2023, increased 12%, which is a So faced with those once again are deciding, want this? Besides the chocolate has been introducing new like bite-sized products. We've obviously got lots including, you know, our Behind one of the doors, Another great way to tell inequality and the supply get a chocolate in your to understand why. So where are the original They're still still regularly pop in progress that we're We're really excited going and where Tony's because we really feel now possible. We're this at scale. And also, with tightened up around traceability, we feel are coming into place to change. We're not going on our mission to end industry.