- Hi, friends. Today, I'm gonna show you how to make the best Thanksgiving turkey. If you've never roasted a turkey before, trust me, it is easier than you think. This recipe is my no-fail, And the good news is that you and you don't need to baste it. There's just a few simple steps juicy, and insanely flavorful turkey. I do have a bunch of and I'm gonna show you how to carve it. So let's dive right in. The biggest mistake that people make is buying a turkey the So don't do that. Remember that a big turkey is gonna take a while to defrost in the fridge. It takes about 24 hours to thaw properly. So I recommend you buy your turkey at least a week before Thanksgiving, store it in the freezer, then let it thaw in the fridge two to four days before the big feast. In terms of how big of a turkey to buy, the general rule of thumb is or a pound and a half And I think we all want It's always better to have than not enough as well. Today, I've got a turkey but the great thing about this recipe is that it's adaptable You may just need a little The first thing you're gonna wanna do is remove the packet of giblets in the neck cavity of the turkey. Then if there's any excess you can trim that off. At the other end, in you'll find the neck. So remove that and you can It's always best to double-check both cavities of the turkey, just to make sure you got everything out. And you can save the giblets or you can discard them, it's up to you. The plastic thing you and used for trusting the legs together. But since we're not trusting you can remove it. When it comes to the equipment you'll need to roast a turkey, it's just three basic kitchen items. A sharp knife, a thermometer, You can buy an expensive roasting tray that comes with a rack, a or a cheapy, disposable roasting tray. They all work perfectly fine. And while a rack is handy, it's definitely not In terms of a knife, I'm using which I'll link to below, but if you have a chef's knife or really any other sharp And lastly, let's talk thermometers. You can use a probe thermometer that you insert into the turkey and keep track of the temperature Or you can use an instant-read thermometer which I use most often in my kitchen. Or you can use a leave-in that's the most economical option. As long as you have something to tell the internal you're good to go. All right, let's get to Once your turkey is thawed, let it rest at room While it's resting, you and one lemon into wedges. Season the inside of the turkey with a generous amount of salt and pepper, then place the onion and lemon If your turkey is on the smaller side and you can't fit all of as you can always place (gentle upbeat music) The last thing you'll is a few sprigs of fresh aromatic herbs, like rosemary, sage, and thyme. The herbs, along with the onion and lemon, give the meat flavor and moisture. You don't wanna cook as overfilling the cavity of the turkey actually slows down the cook time. So always cook stuffing in Now it's time to move You'll need one tablespoon and I do recommend trying and add that to 3/4 cup of You'll also finally chop and add that to the butter and then peel and mince Now, while I added sage inside the turkey, I prefer not to add it to the herb butter, as it's a strong flavor that can be a little So I prefer to just stick with rosemary and thyme on the outside. And then the last component is a little salt and pepper. Once all of those ingredients use a spoon or fork to mash them all up and make sure it's well combined. At this point, your turkey might have little beads of moisture on the outside, going from the fridge to room temperature. So it's really important that you use a few paper The key to beautifully is making sure it's completely dry before adding the herb butter. So to add the herb butter, you'll wanna loosen the skin of the turkey by gently sliding your fingers underneath. Just go slow and take your time, and don't try to use any knives or spatulas or any other kitchen tools because you don't wanna Your hands are some of the so just keep at it until all the way up to the top of the breast. Take about 1/3 of the and rub it under the skin. This helps to keep the breast meat, which is the naturally drier And it's also the reason baste the turkey while it's cooking. Once got the herb butter under the skin, you can also smooth it and then pull the skin And then with the remaining herb butter, you'll rub that all on including the legs, thighs, and wings. (gentle upbeat music continues) Preheat your oven to and we're not gonna start the oven hot and reduce the temperature We're all about simple so we'll keep it at 325 the entire time. The reason I said at the beginning that you didn't need a rack is because you can on top of roughly chopped vegetables. This elevates the turkey allowing air to circulate underneath. And it has the added bonus of flavoring your turkey drippings. All you have to do is and chop up three carrots These are your basic mirepoix vegetables, which are often used for flavoring or in our case, a turkey gravy. And I do have a separate recipe for a very tasty gluten-free No matter which roasting pan you're using, just place the vegetables in the pan and set your turkey on top. If you'd like to use a roasting just wiggle it around the vegetables until you can get it pressed flat. Then place your turkey on top and make sure your I do wanna point out that we're not trusting While it looks pretty, the when air can circulate inside. So just leave the legs as they are. Place the turkey inside your oven, and if you're using a probe place that into the thickest If you're using an you'll start to take the when it's about 75% done. Roast the turkey for about which for me is about or until the internal temperature is 158 to 160 degrees Fahrenheit. Remember that turkey will continue to cook once it's removed from the oven and it will rise in 165 degrees Fahrenheit after it's rested. But if you leave it in that's when you end up with dry meat. If you follow all of those steps which are also available in you'll have a beautiful, perfectly golden, deliciously juicy, and flavorful turkey. At this stage, the most important thing is to let the turkey rest This allows the meat to fully cook and the juices to Now, in full disclosure, I because I was running out of and I wanted to show you So my turkey is far too hot still which is why too much juice It's definitely not my but nonetheless, you'll see So just remember that yours doesn't have The first cut you'll to separate the leg and And continue slicing through the meat until you reach the joint. Then pull back on the leg, splaying it flat on the cutting board, and push up on the joint from underneath. Once you see the joint, use and remove the leg and thigh completely. And repeat this process on the other side. To remove the breast, slice down on either using long strokes. As your knife hits the bottom, use your thumb to gently If needed, you can slice horizontally at the bottom of the to help remove it. Then repeat this process on the other side and set both breasts aside. (gentle upbeat music continues) To remove the wings, gently pull the wings away from the body and slice through the joint. Then set these aside as well. Now that all of the meat separate the drum stick from the thigh, then remove the bone from the thigh by using your knife to preserving as much dark meat as possible. Once you've got just the thigh meat, slice it into strips, and Slice up the breast into thin strips by cutting against the grain. And this is where a sharp as it preserves a little And this is how you Once both breasts are sliced up, add them to your serving platter, and you can arrange them any way you like. There's really no right way to do it. It depends on the size of your platter and any extra garnishes, like herbs lemons, cranberries, So feel free to play around I just tried to make sure like the breasts and For the wings, you can and then bend them backwards to remove the drumette from the wingette. And I usually remove the wingtip as there's really no meat on it, but it's great for stocks and gravies. So I'll add those wing around the thigh meat, and which are definitely more of At this point, I'll fill and today I'm just and leftover sprigs of rosemary and sage. And see? Even though I was burning and cutting far too fast, it I do have step-by-step photos of how to carve a turkey on my website, and those might be easier to follow. So I'll leave the link for that below. I hope you guys enjoy this And as Thanksgiving is I just wanna say how thankful I am for all of the videos and all of the recipes that you make. I always love seeing them on social media. But I hope that you have a very delicious, happy, fun-filled Thanksgiving, And I will see you guys