You can keep your hands up all you want. Help. Mrs. Old Knees never lets anyone relieve themselves. But this is an emergency! Stop asking if you can go to the bathroom! But Miss, I'm gonna- I told ya. Who said that? I-I keep telling ya. What the? Nobody, and I mean nobody gets out of here without a little shart. Ahh... Just don't go full poop. I hope not. Remember Nelson from the second grade? Yeah. Pooped himself and now he's dead. No, no, this cannot be my fate. Oh no. It's getting bad. I can feel your stomach rumbling. I know. You aren't gonna make it. Don't say that. You're gonna explode! Listen! Okay backpack, I'm listening. You need to leave. Yes, but how? Don't worry. You won't have to do this alone. Thank goodness you're here, anthropomorphic talking backpack. STOOP! GET BACK HERE! I'm sorry this is an emergency situation. You've left me no choice. Hope no one else has to go. That'll definitely keep her away from us. But for how long? We should probably talk about the conditions here. Go on. But I can see the bathroom. Now hurry! Before you pop like a balloon. Like a little poop-filled balloon. Please don't say poop-filled balloon. Don't worry. I am worried. You won't have to do this alone. Well that's I'm here. Your best friend is right here. Best friend? I know people make fun of you for having a child's backpack as your best friend, but I think it's super cool that you don't care about being a loser. Okay my pals, we have a lot to catch up on here. I think I might be having the worst day at school ever. I'm having a toilet emergency and my backpack is negging me. Uh oh. Hold on a second, nerd. My name is Holly. What are you in such a hurry for? Well... Don't tell me you're about to poop your pants. [Laughing] Like I'm gonna let you go inside? Please. I want you to poop yourself! I beg. [Laughing] How long is he gonna laugh for? Do I just have to stand here and clench? Eh, don't worry about this bathroom, buddy. I'm sure there's another one close by. This is a nightmare. Not only am I still in danger of soiling myself at any moment, but now I'm being bullied by my backpack and my classmates. Also, am I being mocked by all of these toilet plungers in the hallway? What is happening? It's like, you know when you have to pee and you hear running water? It's like that. Move out of the way! My best friend has to poop bad! Hey! Oh, sorry. That's a secret. I mean, it was a secret until you blasted it to the entire school. Who waits in line for cafeteria food? I'd rather eat a troll's meal. Okay, backpack. We need to focus on the problem at hand. I cannot allow myself to descend into panic. This is a huge school. Surely there are bathrooms everywhere. I just need to find them. Hopefully in a hallway that's less flooded. Oh my gosh, if the hallway is flooded because the other toilets are broken, I will actually cry. I will cry massive rivers that will flood the rest of the school. I don't know how I can ever recover from this humiliation. At least I found some toilet paper. Because let's face it, when I finally do find a toilet, you know there will be no toilet paper in there. The chronic underfunding of education visible everywhere we look. But it's gonna be okay. I made it to the gym. Surely there's gotta be a working toilet at the gym. The front door was locked, but I can go around the side of what do you call this? That didn't taste right. Ew, taste what? You should see a doctor. It wasn't like your other farts. Uh, backpack? Maybe it's because it's too close to the poop. Because we all know farts are just hot air running over logs of turds. You have clearly spent way too much time thinking about that. Please do me a favor and just wipe your memory of what backpack just said. There is just absolutely no need for anybody to have that mental image. All right, I think I see the problem here. I think the school has started using those enormous jumbo rolls of toilet paper. You know the really cheap ones where it's like basically tissue paper? But the rolls are clearly too enormous to actually fit in the stalls, and that's why they are rolling all over the school. Fortunately, someone has been leaving standard size rolls just lying around the school, so I'm stuffing a few of those in my trusty backpack, save them for later. Quick break for a Prairie Pete's tip of the hour. Ages of no importance unless you're cheese. I don't know if I fully agree, but that is pretty wise coming from a burrowing ground squirrel. Woah! Safety! Watch your step! No! Oh, I bet that was close. I can't imagine falling when you're so full of loads of fresh, hot, steamy poop . Zip it! Clench up! We can do this. We can make it. I'm sure there's another one close by. No, not the football game. Anything but this. I don't want to cack my dax in front of an audience in all the school's most promising junior athletes. What if the cheerleaders start to make up a cheer about it? I might die of shame. Wow, it is hard to express how much I do not want to be jumping hurdles in this moment. Don't worry. I'm sure they can breathe under the sand. Can they? Definitely not murdering them by letting them sink into the abyss. Am I really gonna do this? Literally walk on their backs? Okay, well, it's already happening. Welcome to the abyss, everybody. I'm so sorry this had to happen. Guess I'll be hearing those screams every time I close my eyes. Ha ha, good game, everybody. Go, prairie dogs or whatever. Okay, now while everybody is distracted by the big game, I can collect all the rolls of toilet paper and make it to safety. Or failing that, just a hole in the sand. Don't worry. These guys will peak in high school. Oh my gosh, backpack, spitting truths. Backpack is actually so real for that, though. Like, do not worry if you are not considered cool at school. Like all of the coolest people once you grow up were called losers at school. This is the greatest time of their lives. They'll talk about this every reunion. And you know what? I'm happy for them as long as they don't stand in the way of me getting to a toilet Where's the janitor? Dead? They better be dead. I don't know if we even have a janitor. Like, there is filth everywhere. We need an army of janitors. Honestly, the janitor should be fired or killed. This is disgusting. I think that's a problem, backpack. I don't think there is a janitor. Oops. Don't worry. I won't tell anyone that you farted. Do you have to say it so loud? Nobody will know that you just farted. Backpack. This person did not just fart. You gotta be kidding me. Not this one. Okay, I'm starting to think that backpack might be a fake friend. So if you want to apply for the now open position of best friend, just give this video a thumbs up. Wait, why does that say beware of poop monster? Ahhh! Run! Why? He's getting closer. He wants to eat us. Eat us? Who? Oh, him. I don't understand. Is this a metaphor for what's happening inside of my body? Is this the personification of my gastrointestinal distress? A porti potty! It's not ideal, but it's better than your pants. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Keep your head up, kid. You did great. Thank you so much. Walk into that porti potty like you're accepting a major award. What a coincidence. This feels like a simulation. It does. Let's go to the gym. I know they have a bathroom there. Of course. The gym. How did I forget about the gym? That's horrible. Oh no! You'll have to keep playing now. Play what? Man, oh gosh. Never saw that coming. Backpack's probably talking about playing dodgeball. Usually I love dodgeball, but I don't love that this game of dodgeball also includes dodging poos. All right, over the cubes of stank and then surely, surely I will reach a functioning toilet. More tips from Prairie Pete. If you're watching this and you have any tips you'd like to share for Prairie Pete's tip of the hour, just leave them in the comment section. Hey, he rocks those blue shorts. Gotta give him that. Who are you talking about? I'm not sure who is more delusional here. Is it my backpack talking about an unknown someone and their lovely blue shorts? Or is it me hearing my backpack talk to me? Possibly because I have to go to the bathroom so badly that my colon has ruptured and now I am experiencing sepsis. Guess we'll find out soon. That's just part of the fun of the game. Maybe I'm so sick I'm hallucinating. Maybe that's why all the poops have faces. Hey, I can see the bathroom from here. Where? We're almost there. Hurry. A little dusting. Never hurt anybody. In fact, it's good for plants and stuff. Don't feel bad about it. Can't believe that I am accepting reassurance from a backpack. Although at this point, I will take it wherever I can get it because things are dire. I have reached absolute peak tummy trouble and if I do not get to a toilet, immediately I think I'm going to die. It does appear that I'm not the only person at the school that has had this problem. Why are there so many turds on the floor? Are they figments of my imagination? Or are they physical evidence of the fact that this school needs many, many, many, many more toilets? Unfortunately, only time will tell and possibly a trip to the hospital. If anyone has any words of encouragement for me, my goodness, it is time to put them in the comment section because I have to do hurdles again? What's happening? It's coming. Oh no. Stop grunting. It's weird. Get out of my way. Wait, he's not going to my toilet, is he? Don't you dare. Please. Tragedy. They should just shut down the school and rebuild. They won't be getting him out of that. But the lunch room does have a bathroom. It's disgusting. But this entire school has gone downhill anyways. Do I seek solace in the vent? They should just shut down the school and rebuild. They won't be getting him out of that. I can't believe I'm saying this, but maybe I could poop in the vent. No, Holly, you must not spoil the sanctity of the vent. I know these are desperate times. I know that tragedy has struck again and again, but we have to maintain some standards. The vent has always been good to us. A place of safety and solitude. I cannot simply befoul it. I need to make it to the cafeteria. I'm so sorry that was me. Gross. Yeah, ew. Why would you step on that? I didn't. We don't even know who that is. We don't know what type of a diet they have. That could be very unhealthy poop. Oh, wow. Garbage in the lunch room. I thought they served this stuff. Not throw it away. Prairie Pete's tip of the hour. Avoid the school lunch. That's it. Oh, what the heck? Why would that even be here? This is why everybody in the school is suffering from diarrhea. It's the cafeteria food. There's poop on the dishes. Throw it up. Oh, I'm literally throwing up right now. Same, bud. Well, not literally, but I'm close. What do you think would come out if a backpack could throw up? I think it would be like pencil shavings, bits of balled up paper, and like old lunches. Anyway, just a little thought experiment to take my mind off of my disgusting surroundings. But perhaps I need to face reality because I'm gonna have to talk to the principal about this. Now, I don't know if you know this, but one of the main reasons that people could get sick from contaminated food is because the food has come in contact with poop-filled water. And what have we seen around the school all day long? Heaps of poop. Heaps of water. Not surprising, but this is honestly the best the lunchroom has ever smelled. Why did you say that's not surprising? That's very surprising. But we'll put that aside for now and focus on what's really important. There's a toilet! Maybe I'm gonna make it. Maybe everything's gonna be okay! I can taste it. Please don't say that. Not mad about it, though. Friends don't get mad at friends. Okay, but I'm mad. You disgusting little rat. Okay, rude. I realize this is not at the top of my list of problems right now, but I think I might have a toxic friendship with my backpack. Like, I'm having an actual crisis here and you're calling me names? I told em not to eat the food. I warned em. Nobody listens to me. Now look at him. That's true. They ate the food and now everybody is just pooping themselves. Oh, buddy, just give up. I am not going to give up. Not now. What are you expecting to do? Just fold. Just sit down and accept humiliation. Well, that's not happening, backpack. Not today. I have come too far to simply poop myself in front of the entire school. I have outrun a poop monster. I have done hurdles. That's weird. I mean, I'd be mad too if I was brought here to be eaten by a bunch of booger kids. What you talking about, backpack? Don't deny it either. I know you eat boogers. Hey, what's that? Guess that's none of my business. I'm heading to the hay. No. No, boy. No! It's over. That was the last bathroom. That can't be possible. It's time to just accept your fate. Are you telling me to poop in my pants? That's terrible advice. I'm not going to accept my fate. You know, I think if you pooped right here, nobody would notice. The Lux lady would pick it up and just serve it. Backpack, that is a step too far. I just need to vent to somebody. We've been through too much. This school needs to be-- Hey there. Have you got some time to talk? Come. Take a seat. Thanks. No need to explain why you're here. I can read it on your face. You can? You're defeated because you can't find a restroom, correct? Yeah, my backpack says poop. When I was younger, I went through a similar event. You did? After countless trials and errors, I gave up on finding an available restroom. And I pooped in middle of the gymnasium in front of everybody. I don't want that for myself. Even to this day, I regret it. The whole school saw me poop on that gym floor. Actual nightmare. If only I hadn't given up so soon. What if I told you there was one more restroom down the hall? There is? Succeed where I failed. I'll try. All my hopes and dreams. No, I won't try. I will. I leave them to you. I'm not gonna let you down. Well, that was some unconventional therapy. All right. This is definitely the end of the game. You just have to make it through this hallway. Then it's pop a poopy time. I just need to make it to the end of this hallway. This incredibly long hallway. The staff-only restroom. Why the picture make it look like just royal men teach here. Nobody will know that you just farted. This person did not just fart. Stop saying that. Not this one. Okay, the second that I am no longer in danger of soiling myself, we are dealing with this backpack situation. Like, it is one thing to be best friends with your talking backpack. It is a different thing entirely to be bullied by your talking backpack, okay? And frankly, after the indignities I have suffered today, I cannot take a single more. I want to leave this game with just a teeny tiny bit of remaining pride. Don't feel bad that this is your fault. My death is on your head. Not my problem, I'm afraid. Almost there. Wait I'm still alive. I didn't die. Sorry about that. I thought I was dying. What if you just pretended for a moment by being quiet? I'm trying to concentrate. Hey! Look, I am trying so, so hard, but this is very, very difficult. I've been holding it in for like 15 minutes. 15 minutes of absolute emergency level needing the toilet. Nothing is gonna stop me at this point. Not my talking backpack. Not this hungry, hungry octopus. Nothing. You can't just keep floating those out there. Couple of more of those and it's over. Not just a game, but your reputation. Everyone remembers the kid that pooped themselves. It's embarrassing. It's a sign over your head for life. I know, I know. I am so close, so close. I'm getting that awful feeling, you know, when you really, really have to go, and then you get to the front door of your house and it's like your buddy knows that you're at the front door and it starts getting like more of an emergency? Wait, no. Who do I have to? No skipping class. I'm not skipping. Okay, Mrs. Duty, I didn't want it to have to come to this. Go to the office. I would go to the office if there was a toilet at the office. Is there a toilet at the office? Go to the office. She doesn't care. She's just trying to get me in trouble. Well, I am trying to throw toilet plungers at your house. Go to the office. That actually looks pretty good. It's kind of a look. What a weird power trip. I'm telling you parents. Sure, tell my parents. They'll understand. Go to the office. Again, remind me, is there a toilet at the office? Maybe a special one for the pencil? Real nice one with like smelly soaps. Okay, unexpected. I'm just going to ignore that and just go and do what I came here to do. Could you imagine if there was no toilet paper left? Yes. Like you made it this far just for the toilet paper to be out? I brought my own. There's no toilet paper here. That's just fine. I don't care. You'll need to use your hand or something. Gross. Don't look at me like that. I'm a collectible. If you do that, I'll lose all my value. Hey, stop. Please forget what just happened. Nothing happened. I did a nice, normal trip to the bathroom. But yes, I definitely need to wash my hands. Don't have super high expectations for what this is going to be like, but at least there's running water. Finally, a little bit of dignity. Whoa! I can't believe you didn't wash your hands. I did. That's disgusting. I was about to ask if you wanted one of these. Some of my brand new bag of sour cream flavored chips. It's family sized. But now, I don't want to take you to flavor town. The shame. Wow. Not only was that the most disgusting display of booty trumpet I've ever heard, Booty trumpet? but you didn't even wash your hands. I did. Disgusting. The shame. After all this, I'm dying of the shame. After everything you've been through today, you overcame all obstacles, but didn't wash your hands? But I did, I swear. You soiled it. You soiled it. Final blow. The shame was too much. Goodnight.