Today, you'll hear about a Russian gangster with three devious and murderous American Later in the show, you will wonder with a Yale-educated spy could massacre his nearest vanish into thin air like a spec of dust. The latter mystery is an absolute cracker, to wrap our heads around. You're going to hear some messed-up stories seen one of these people. If so, you could become the beneficiary of Since there seems to be some confusion about is. It consists of 195 member states. Interpol's website explains, "We connect and in person - bridging jurisdictions, " Millions of messages are sent through what system." Unlike, say, the FBI, Interpol doesn't go It just helps find people. The organization does keep a wanted list, people that a country wants located and arrested. Notably, a Red Notice is not an arrest warrant. They are more like an international notice, the criminal. Interpol does not look for them in the physical It's up to local police forces to do that. The Red Notices make up the longest list of From 2014 to 2021, there were anywhere from list. There are currently 249 people on the Red to 104 people who are Americans. We can't possibly talk about all of them, the worst of the worst, or at least the most all. 15. Canada controversy when she had what she calls a consensual relationship baseball team. She's now on Interpol's Red Notice list This happened in 2008, and in 2009, she, her what she did is not considered a crime. In some US states, it might also not be a age of consent. Still, in Florida, if the accused is over an intimate relationship with someone that of authority, as Harvey was, the age of consent Her lawyers have claimed the 30-year prison be deemed "cruel and unusual." Right now, she's still on Red Notice but We thought we'd open the show with a good to extraditions. Keeping a low profile stand out in a crowd manage to evade the law Listen to this description of a man on Interpol's He's somehow not been seen for well over "Tran may weigh 47-61 kilograms and may Tran has several tattoos, including a design going onto his back; multiple designs over low on his back; 'Tran' on top of his above 'Warriors' in script." He might as well have fixed a flashing target His full name is Kim Ngoc Tran. In 2009, when he was 29 years old, he was in which he and two others opened fire on Two were injured, and a third man, 20-year-old Tran is a Vietnamese national, but he had the crime. His paperwork has probably expired by now to Vietnam and is currently residing there. This next person will give you the creeps. A big fish out of muddy water weighs about 300 pounds (136kg) and would (204cm). In 1998, this former swimming champion and head swimming coach at a college in Lancaster, He was by all accounts an excellent swimmer, New England Champion, competing in his college That year, a group of women found a videotape On the tape, they saw themselves and heard It turned out the coach had been secretly The police subsequently charged him with six The general consensus across the legal world to film someone in a public place if there's a private environment. People end up on other people's videos all But it is very, very, illegal to film someone that the people being filmed won't want Trites was last seen on January 30, 1998, amount of money from a bank and disappeared. He left behind a wife, who was going to divorce He left his apartment and all his clothes, Mercury Mountaineer, and in it, police found That may sound strange to you, but it's One thing he did keep was his passport. The FBI said it's hard to miss him, given The agency said wherever he may be, it's He might also be teaching golf since he had The FBI says he might be living under the include John Morgan and Buddy. He has ties with New Mexico, Connecticut, although it's suspected he might have gone There is no reason to think he's dead, so near someone watching this video today. The FBI has issued its familiar warning for "DO NOT ATTEMPT TO APPREHEND THIS PERSON HE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS." So, if you've seen him, go to the FBI website You might wonder how he's still on the run. Law enforcement says criminals are usually but it's very hard to find someone who lives with their past. Still, the FBI has said it's caught 163 list thanks to people sending in information. It helps that the agency may give someone The same applies for Trites and his case, be compensated for information leading to This next case is horrific, but it comes with 12. Potential serial killer? The FBI says on any given day, around 80,000 Most of them will be found, but each year, or Jane Does, meaning bodies without a name. After one year, about 1,000 will remain unidentified. Another estimate from the FBI is this: There in the USA each year. Now, let's talk about the case of John Lytus, killer. We say might because police have only convicted women in the US go back decades. He's also wanted in Nicaragua for crimes The US has him in confinement at the moment, the Red Notice list. In 2016, when he was 54, he was sentenced murdering a 30-year-old homeless woman whose Just days before he killed her, he'd picked and offered her illegal substances. He proceeded to take her to a private place her for 12 hours. This is a bad, bad man. Police later discovered that he had convictions to 1986 when he was arrested and detained He also had a stalking conviction in Orange It seems he chose the most vulnerable women, become Jane Does, or in the parlance of academics, a great number of people are concerned about It's hard to imagine that this is all Lytus Given the extremeness of the crimes he was this guy is guilty of more crimes. There's little chance he'll be sent back at least you can sleep safe knowing that he'll Help catch this next guy, and a reward of 11. The violent vegan your typical criminal. He's been called a mostly strait-laced kind animals to the extreme. The FBI calls him an "animal rights extremist," "straight edge" movement. This is a movement linked to hardcore punk alcohol, tobacco, recreational drugs, and bands like the Sex Pistols stood for. They sound like Puritan punks, inspired by Edge" by the punk band Minor Threat. Some people involved with the movement have A few of them started a band called Vegan "vegan jihad" movement, part of a so-called This was the life of Daniel San Diego. On August 28, 2003, just before sunrise, two of Chiron Corporation, a biotechnology outfit The first one went off, but it took some time That second one was time-delayed, which led attack up wanted the authorities who responded The FBI later said in an interview: devices. They were not made with garbage -- he actually You have to know what you're doing to build A month later, they say he left a nail bomb This company makes products such as vitamins have worked with a British research firm named This company tests products on animals, mostly other non-specified animals. Shaklee has said it has nothing to do with In 2003, the FBI had San Diego, described around-the-clock surveillance. On October 6 that year, he parked his car been seen again, not by law enforcement, anyway. He's described as six feet in height (1.82 The FBI describes his tattoos as: center of his chest with the words 'It only burning and collapsing buildings on the sides tree rising from a road in the center of his The agency says he is smart, a skilled sailor, He might carry a handgun and should be treated We imagine he's not half as dangerous as 10. The disguise artist the body of a lawyer and father of two named He'd been strangled. An investigation found that a man named John had set up a business meeting with Patel at Panaligan entered the building wearing a disguise, a hat, as well as carrying a cane. His appointment was not made under his real someone who had filed a civil case against The Chicago Tribune later wrote, "The victim's in 2017 that she believed her husband had dealings." When Panaligan entered Patel's office, he While the disguise did indeed hide Panaligan's of interest due to the court case. It became obvious something was wrong when for attempting to take a handgun into Canada. He was sent back to the US, where police later have enough evidence to keep him in custody. After executing a search warrant of his house, that time, it's believed Panaligan had already And with his dual citizenship for the U.S. as a fugitive is made a lot easier. He might be in the Philippines right now, seen him and that "he could be anywhere." Maybe you've seen him. He's described as Asian, with black hair (1.63 meters) tall and weighing 150 pounds He's considered bald and may have a scar It's also suspected he has a goatee. He might be using the alias Reynaldo Cabrera. Given the nature of his alleged crime, he approached. Now for another eco-terrorist, one with a 9: The escape artist being a domestic terrorist. She's now 52 but has been known to use an 1974, October 4, 1971, and November 4, 1971. She has several known aliases, including Lisa Rachelle Quintana, Maria Quintana, "Osha," Overaker was allegedly involved in a series out for the Earth Liberation Front and the She was part of a smaller group known as The have all been arrested, she's the only one She's wanted in crimes that occurred in and Wyoming. It's thought she had a hand in one of the Vail Ski Resort attack in Colorado on October The attack, it seems, was motivated by the No one was hurt, but it did result in about Six people have since been sent to prison, thought to have possibly gone to Spain since At five feet three (1.6 meters) and just 130 The FBI believes she might be working as a a masseuse. On its website, the FBI states: her upper left arm and a very large bird tattoo her upper back. She has scars on her left ankle, right ankle, Authorities don't think she is a very dangerous risk. 8. The girlfriend killer Robert Lee King has been on the run from cops On December 1, 2005, he allegedly murdered to murder her 20-year-old daughter, Diana. Diana survived to tell the tale, explaining and shouting. She proceeded to go into her mother's bedroom, Diana ran away, hoping to get help, but King She locked herself in her bedroom, but King, He then stabbed her in the neck with a sharp Luckily for young Diana, the stab wound wasn't When she was sure King had left the house, she, too, had been stabbed in the neck. She wasn't as lucky as Diana, and died shortly Diana was in critical condition for a while King. US Marshalls are now after him, and believe plain sight." He is described as black, 6-foot-2 (1.88 meters), When he went on the run, he was about 185 Police say he has a tattoo of an upside-down Underneath that, he has a picture of a horseshoe He's known to use the name Robert West, area, although he may have moved to Greenville, Minneapolis. He's almost 60 now, and it's thought he gone gray. There is a reward of up to $25,000 for anyone to his arrest. It seems people do get paid, but not always That might depend on how good the tip is. In 2011, when some tipped off the FBI about Bulger, they got a cool $2.1 million, with companion, Catherine Greig. Russian gangster or wayward geek? Now let's talk about Leonid Ilich Kogan, Well, an article in a San Francisco newspaper that wrong. Authorities believe that he's actually Ukrainian, It seems in the US, besides working as an character in the nightclub scene as a concert/party That all sounds innocent enough, but on September into a nightclub, the Avalon in Santa Clara, a 22-year-old named Nikita Kozlovski. It seems these men knew each other. Kogan said he just wanted to talk business, Kozlovski out of the club, where around 450 They shoved him into the back of Kogan's down the 101 freeway while making him an offer One of the men tightened a chokehold around uncertain terms that from now on, when Kozlovski Kogan a good amount of his takings. Interestingly, Kogan told Kozlovski that if end up the same way as Eugene Gorenman, a who was found dead at Fort Funston in the 2004. This might sound like the work of the Russian know Gorenman was a UC Berkeley graduate who Pacific Gas and Electric Co. Gorenman had actually been lured to Fort Funston with him, pulled out a gun and shot him in They took his wallet and credit card and left For this execution, they got away with $20 Kozlovski ended up agreeing to make the payments he also went straight to the cops. Kogan was soon arrested on kidnapping charges, to $250,000, he disappeared, possibly to Mexico, headed to Russia or Ukraine. His accomplices were also arrested, both men gangsters. Kogan is now in his early 40s. He's stocky, weighing 180 pounds (81 kg) He has brown hair and brown eyes and still Now, for someone whom you should consider 6. American Murderer Brown. He's the only person on this list who, to him, a movie titled American Murderer. The reason why the director chose to depict that Brown looked very out of place on the to the likes of Whitey Bulger and Osama Bin Brown was removed from the list in 2022, but still appears on Interpol's Red Notice list. Brown's background was in toys. To outsiders, he was doing well, but his businesses Despite this, he had a taste for luxury, for In 2004, he bought a .45-caliber Glock semiautomatic He took a firearms instruction class, and killer. On November 29, Brown shot and killed 24-year-old the deposits from an AMC theater in Phoenix, Brown made sure Palomares was dead, shooting with a bag containing $56,000. His getaway vehicle was a bicycle parked in Police would later take Brown's fingerprints Brown has been on the run since. Now, age 52, he might be going under the names Harline Johnson, Greg Harline Johnson, John He has blond hair and blue eyes, is five feet 180 pounds (81kg). He might have become a businessman again, of golf, skiing, and snowboarding. He's fluent in French, so authorities have to a French-speaking nation. He might also be in Mexico and maybe even The FBI says on its website, "Brown enjoys known to frequent nightclubs where he enjoys and other toys." Considering the brutality of his execution-style If you know anything, get in touch with the or consulate. The reward stands at $200,000. 5. Escalation is thought to have belonged to the Chinese-American On the weekend of July 31, 2007, Kim, who went to a party to celebrate a girl's 18th The house, located in Rowland Heights, California, in all, firing down as much booze as they Never a good mix when testosterone levels Kim rolled into the party with his buddies, attire. As the booze flowed, Kim got into an argument At around 1:30 a.m., unkind words quickly The fight flowed into the street, where Boo That was the end of Boo's life. Witnesses say he staggered toward his car The other victim survived. Kim's been on the run ever since. He's five feet four (1.65 meters) and, at (65kg). He's Asian, has black hair and brown eyes, Mexico. That's all the information the authorities Now for a story that should be turned into 4. The Air Pirate Cooper, but have you heard of his female counterpart, Described in the media as an "all-American Flight 701 from Los Angeles to Seattle on war vet named Willie Roger Holder. The two claimed they had a bomb in an attache In a note passed to one of the cabin staff, "Success through Death. Except the Captain will leave the Cabin. There are four of us and two bombs. Do as you're told, and no shooting will They said they'd blow the plane and everyone $3.6 million in today's money), and the was released. Davis was acquitted two days later, but that The plane landed in San Francisco, and half the rest flew on to New York to refuel. At some point in the flight, according to Mile High Club. They then flew on to Algeria, where the couple In Algeria, they linked up with members of by all accounts, this didn't turn out too Holder phoned an American newspaper and explained, and I. They've got the guns, and they've It's known that Holder suffered from severe The money, minus $12,000, was later returned After using counterfeit passports to get into and Janice Forte, but Holder could never settle experiences. He returned to the US in 1986, where the FBI He spent just two years in prison for his Kerkow could be using the names Janice Ann Marie Kerkow. She's five feet five (1.67 meters) and might She has a pale complexion, with brown hair now be hiding out in Oregon, France, Switzerland, The FBI does say she should be considered 72, we imagine she's definetly not as dangerous 3. The survivalist Fisher might sound like an upstanding member He'd served in the US Navy, worked as a attended weekly bible class. But something rotten lay at the core of Fisher's Perhaps part of it was due to the fact that by a brutal rejection. He was full of anger and resentment, evidenced animals. He was violent and controlling with his wife. The two could be heard screaming at each other "You're worthless," his wife would shout. "I could have done better than you. We should get a divorce." Then something snapped. Fisher and his wife were heard arguing at 43 minutes later, he was seen drawing $280 Police believe at this point, he'd just in Scottsdale, Arizona. His wife had been shot in the back of the He also slit the throats of his 2 kids, 12-year-old At some point, Fisher lit a candle. He then pulled out the gas line from the furnace made his escape. At around 8.42 a.m. the house exploded. Who knows where he went after that? There are plenty of theories. Some say he died soon after, possibly inside Other theories say he used his survivalist Despite the FBI putting up $100,000 for information of possible sightings, he remains at large. Some think that it's unlikely he's survived the land and enduring 22 years of winters. It's likely, if he's still alive, he's jobs. The sad fact is the FBI doesn't even have Maybe you've seen him. Due to an injury from his firefighting days, He has a scar on his back and a gold tooth, for so long we doubt he's had the dental He's 62 years old. Standing at 6 feet (1.82 meters), he weighs The $100,000 is still up for grabs for anyone It goes without saying, do not approach this He will very likely be armed, and he is considered Now for the second-craziest story on this 2. The robber reverend has quite a colorful rap sheet. In 1962, when Wright was just 19, he and three pantyhose, went on an armed robbery spree being fatally shot. Wright didn't pull the trigger that killed 15 to 30 years in prison. In 1970, he'd evidently had enough of prison, Wright and a man named George Brown, also warden's car to make their getaway. Reports say that they made it to Detroit, This was already quite the life of crime, On July 31, 1972, he was part of a five-person 841. Wright had boarded dressed in the garb of Darnell Burgess. Hidden in the hollowed out Bible he brought One of the passengers later explained, "They is a decadent society, and they didn't want When they landed in Boston, they were given ransom money. They also got cheese and ham sandwiches, apples, After flying to Alegria in what passengers passengers were allowed to disembark. The Algerians took the plane, took the ransom allowed the hijackers to flee. In 1976, four of the hijackers were arrested. His two male accomplices each served three The two females were given suspended sentences Mr. Wright skipped off to sunny Portugal, Over the years, living under the alias of money from selling gift items to tourists. He did a spot of bouncing at a nightclub, taught basketball. By all accounts, he had a great life in Europe. He married a young translator, and the two Even though the Portuguese authorities arrested and remains a wanted man in the US. The FBI states he "SHOULD BE CONSIDERED That's not what Wright's lawyer thinks, his client is "a caring father, a devoted of banquets for the homeless, [and] basketball Wright later spoke to this journalist at his is a matter of life or death to me," often between sentences. On his ankle, the Portuguese authorities had He told the journalist, "I've been working on it, trying to accept who I am. I made a decision a long time ago to do something I can. You dig? It's part of my repentance, to get rid of people go through, to be able to balance the Wright is now 80. He never did any prison time in Portugal, back to the US. What we do know is that he sure as hell won't Ok, the last one: a highly-educated mass murderer How is this not a movie? How is it not ten movies? 1. The diplomat and US government high-roller, committed one American history. He graduated from Yale with a bachelor's degree degree in Italian, as well as completing a The world was his oyster, but it seems, he In the 1950s, he worked for US counterintelligence, saw during his work with the government. What we do know is that his stint in the intelgience Being fluent in Italian, French, Spanish, as a diplomat for the US in various posts in Africa and Italy. On March 1, 1976, Bishop came back to the Now aged 40, he told his secretary he thought to go home. Reports say he was upset since he hadn't Police believe his next stop was the bank, money). After that, he drove to a mall, where he bought ball-pein hammer. He then drove to a gas station and filled the can. His next stop was the hardware store, where There's not many things you could do with No one heard from him for a while after that. So, on March 8, police went around to his Springs neighborhood of Bethesda, about 22 It was quiet, eerily quiet, at the house. Police then spotted a trail of blood that When they went inside, the house was covered It was on the walls, all over the bedrooms, There were human hairs, bits of flesh and It was as if a werewolf had torn through the One of the officers later said: completely splattered with blood. There was hardly a place you could put your I'd been a police officer for approximately I've ever observed." So, where were the bodies? The answer is police found them smoldering North Carolina. Bishop had dug a hole and thrown in the remains he'd bought, so the story goes. What was left of his family was soon identified and three sons (5, 10 and 14). He'd bludgeoned them all to death. Police later said: was probably killed first. She was found beside a book, which she may killed. The children were probably killed next, followed They were all killed with a blunt instrument, to defend themselves." On March 18, Bishop's station wagon was Tennessee. Inside it were dog biscuits, a shotgun, an Bishop's medication. It's very important to note that at the medication used usually for sleep problems Bishop, it was discovered, had been seeing He just disappeared after that. No one could figure it out. There were plenty of theories, some that involved the CIA, of course, has denied this. Sure, his life wasn't perfect; he was apparently much of the world, and he did get denied that There was nothing to suggest he disliked his them in such a brutal way. This was overkill, suggesting intense hatred. He was about as close to the top of the labor He was a winner. No one could figure it out. They still can't, but there's more to As a man who'd worked for intelligence, He had a diplomatic passport and quite possibly That much makes sense when you consider he In those days, 'diplomats' were often He also knew how to fly small planes and had He would be be 87 now. If you've met him already, you might have foods. You'd have seen him perhaps with a dog. He loved dogs. You might have been privy to the six-inch You couldn't have missed his cleft chin He's six feet one (1.85 meters) and 180 have gone to Italy, Belgium, England, Finland, or Switzerland, seen, quite a few times. In 1978, in Sorrento, Italy, a former colleague to face with his old friend in a bus station Harrell was sure of it. You don't generally forget old friends. He said: disheveled-looking man came in. In my mind's eye, I took the beard and his Bishop I had seen coming out of the State I followed him and watched him disappear down where boats go to Capri." Harrell said he'd actually gone up to him you?" and the man responded in an American fast. In 1979, another colleague, this time someone was "absolutely certain" she'd seen Still, at that point, she didn't know he Then, in 1994, a person who'd known Bishop said she definitely saw him on a train platform The woman said, "All of a sudden, this sick I realized it was Bradford Bishop...The very The last thing the guy said to me was, 'That's hang out.' They never contacted me after that." There's more to this story than meets the It was later discovered that before Bishop he'd been corresponding with a prison inmate, at the United States Penitentiary in Marion, Citizens National Bank in Plain, Mississippi. How did Bishop know such a criminal? The letter was only discovered ten years after already died of cancer. The authorities have been criticized for this this case could have likely been cracked by Also, for some strange reason, it took the list. 531 fugitives have appeared on that list over but not Bishop, arguably one of the worst The letter from Bankston to Bishop is in the is very difficult to decipher at first glance. It explicitly doesn't talk about murder, held the key to the riddle. At one point in the letter, Bankston wrote, Yes, I am most sure she is in North Carolina Was this in reference to a woman seen with Was Bishop using Bankston to help him find Maybe in exchange for a counterfeit passport? At another point in the letter, Bankston writes, Central America, as you know." A man named David Paul Allen was mentioned Post, "Bishop wanted a shooter... He was willing to spend good money and more." Robert Keefer, who was working as a sheriff's and has spent years turning over every stone he talked with Allen on the phone. Keefer said: some money to kill the family, and they were some gutter or home repair work. All this was supposed to take place while It seemed to me he paid them some cash and Keefer went to talk to a man he suspected said killing kids was against his criminal Keefer said he later tried to get another was no longer available. The FBI said an agent was now in control. Keefer said, "We tried to locate this agent, Again, strange. What's interesting is on March 19, 2000, bought an old diary for $38 at a Flea Market On the front, it was written, "Bradford The woman's son looked that name up on the what they had on their hands. Who knows if it was the Bradford Bishop, but Here are some passages: in the Foreign Service--make Ambassador before dedication and considerable sacrifice of time Also, February 1967: "Toxic, degenerative megalomania." June 12, 1968: "One should seize upon life We should state here again that Bishop had This man was Dr. Frank Caprio, but Caprio talk about his relationship with Bishop to 1968: "This accursed insomnia. ...It's amazing, despite how lousy you feel His last entry in 1971 states: still stand on the threshold. Outwardly, your accomplishments are great. ...My, such symbols, promotions, citations, Still, you stand on the threshold. You have soared to the heights &amp; plummeted, Was this diary the real thing? Was it planted by the CIA to make it look In the world of intelligence, anything is People who've worked on the case the most Raymond M. Kight, Sheriff of Montgomery County, most. In an interview about this with MoCo360, a the case is so strange and so very mysterious of the CIA's MK-Ultra trials when the agency control people's minds, sometimes in an Bishop was certainly in the right place at The sheriff said, "I'm not so sure this How else, he said, do "you go into your mother?" Still, there is no proof. These are just his musings. There's one more we'll add to this tale already. In 2022, a woman who'd done a genealogy none other than Bradford Bishop. The FBI confirmed it. They look almost identical, too. The woman, who'd let her cousin track down the result was in, "Is he famous!?" The cousin replied, "Hmm, well, yeah...I'll Now you absolutely need to watch "50 Insane Or, have a look at this creepy and bloody Serial Killer."