- Today, I'm gonna show you how to make the fluffiest dinner rolls. (funky music) (Natasha grunts) (Natasha grunts) (Natasha laughs) Hey, everybody. It's Natasha of NatashasKitchen.com. You guys are going to love this recipe. The ingredients are so simple. You probably already have and they are melt-in-your-mouth soft. I'm craving dinner rolls, (hands tapping) (bell chimes) To start, you'll need one and a half cups of warm whole milk. It should be about 110 degrees Fahrenheit. You want to make sure it's not too hot or it can deactivate the yeast. Stir in one tablespoon of granulated sugar and whisk that to combine. Then, sprinkle the top with one tablespoon of active dry yeast. Let that rest for a minute. Then whisk the yeast Now you're gonna set it aside and let it proof for about five minutes or until the yeast looks foamy. All right. That looks perfect. Now, we're gonna add four tablespoons of warm, melted, unsalted butter. Also, add the rest of your and one and a quarter teaspoons of salt. Next, we're gonna add just under four cups of all-purpose flour, and make sure you measure that correctly. I do have a video tutorial on how we measure ingredients for baking, and I will link that in the notes. Add the flour just half a cup at a time and whisk in to incorporate Once that's fully blended in, add a little bit more flour until it's too thick to whisk. (funky music) I love starting my dough with a whisk because it incorporates much faster and speeds up the process, but eventually, the and we're gonna switch to If you don't have a stand mixer, you absolutely can continue with a stiff spatula and (funky music) I'm gonna set my mixer to speed two, and continue adding that flour. Scrape down your mixing bowl as needed to help the flour incorporate evenly. Add the last one to two only if it's needed. When the dough is done, it should still feel sticky but if you have clean, dry fingers, it should not stick to your fingertips. If you see it is very you can add one to two until you reach the right consistency. Once the flour is all mixed in, you want to knead that for Because this dough is so soft and moist, it will produce the Now we're gonna let the dough rise. Transfer it to a well-oiled Cover that with plastic wrap and let it rest and rise in a warm room for about two hours or until The dough will rise faster so you can either use If using your oven, for about two minutes, and set the bowl of dough on a towel, and let it proof in the warm or you can place a damp kitchen Heat that for a minute on high heat. This'll create the perfect for the dough to rise. Place the dough into the warm microwave, shut the door, and let it When it's done, you'll see that the dough Now we're gonna divide the Lightly dust a clean and Now, turn the dough out Since the dough is sticky, I find it's much easier to work with after giving it a quick turn We're gonna turn this You can make 16 dinner rolls or 24, depending on the pan size that you use. We're using a 13-by-9 casserole dish, which fits five across and three deep, making 15 dinner rolls. I find the easiest way to First, divide the dough Then divide each of those I find it helps to score to see what your pieces will look like. Once you have your dough pieces, you're gonna roll them into balls. You can either wrap your and roll it on a clean work surface, or you can roll it in (funky music) My favorite way is to hug the dough with my thumb and fingers and then roll it in the palm of my hand. You should get a smooth and even ball. (funky music) Lightly oil a 9-by-13 casserole dish. Then add your dinner rolls so they're evenly spaced in the pan. (funky music) Cover those with plastic wrap, and we're gonna let those for about an hour or until We're gonna do our same So put a damp towel in the Then, put your casserole close the door, and let When those are nearly done, you're gonna preheat your oven You can see they've puffed Now we're gonna bake those in the center of a preheated oven at for about 23 to 25 minutes and the tops are a beautiful golden-brown. As soon as those come out of the oven, if you want them to have a golden glow, brush the tops with one (funky music) Now, the easiest way to amp up the flavor is to sprinkle the tops with while the butter is This will help the salt (funky music) You do want to let the rolls And it is so hard to resist (funky music) All right. These have I personally love rolls when they're still a little I think they're the softest So we are gonna do a taste test. Are you ready for this? I can't wait to show you guys how soft and crazy fluffy they are. Okay. And I've got my butter and I've Here we go. All right. And these come out super easy, because remember, we oiled the dish. All right. Look at this. These are so tall and fluffy. Delicious. Take a look inside. These are like cotton candy soft. They're so good. Look at that. Yummers. Okay. And we need butter. We need butter because bread and butter... (laughs) Got some softened butter here. And I do have a really, which we serve for the holidays. It is easy, excellent, and I will leave a link in the notes, but here we go with this taste test. Okay. Oh. Mmm. The texture of a homemade dinner roll. You just can't beat it. You can't. I love that these are It's melting my butter. I'm excited. And I don't know. There's just this feeling about making your own dinner rolls. Make these, and you I'm telling you, it feels even though it was really easy. Okay, I'm gonna eat more of these. Also, These are perfect for sliders. I have a really good sliders recipe that you can use for these and little peanut butter So good. Mmm. Wow. The texture, mmm. These are like my favorite because homemade is always better. My whole family loves these. They freeze really well. And I hope these become I hope you love 'em, and we'll see you in our next video.