- Action. My name is Claire Wineland. - Kendrick Evans. - Darth Vader. - Isabel Bueso. - Jess Oldwyn. - Kat Lazo. I have terminal gastric cancer. - I am living with something - Leukemia. - MPS 6. - I have terminal sleep apnea. - And I am living with - Thank you for calling this is Kat, how may I assist you? The doctor's name is Doctor Chamberlain. There's been a lot going on, there's a lot of changes in my life. On July 7th, after my doctor said, &quot;Kat, And I like freaked. The crazy part, though, is that I had a hard It was harder than Because for once I didn't - Me sharing my story with the world, at first I was a little hesitant about it. But now I know that God through certain things About two months ago I work out two days a week. I used to sit in my car, 30 minutes, just sit there and have to But after like the fourth time going, I'm eager to get up and go work out. And what really makes me work out now is when, you know, when I be walking, and people say, oh you're losing weight, oh okay, thank you. That lets me know that, okay, I'm losing weight, I got this, I got this. - So if you open up, the design which sounds horribly boring. But I make it sort of cool. The past year was like, I think the first year of my life where I really realized that I had to kind of take everything I I felt myself slipping health wise a lot, and I knew I didn't have as to do everything I needed to do. And I kind of have just what to prioritize, and what I care about, and what's important to me, and what I actually want to be saying. I'm winging it, and it - Last year, I ended up one triathlon, 25 Tough At that point, my leg luckily it just happened that I was able to connect and get my leg amputated. And since I've had my leg amputated, I have competed in seven triathlons, I needed to get back up again. And after having such a major surgery, I needed to prove to myself, you know, in a safe way, sort of, that I was able to do it. - I'm a senior now in And I'm also the new That means that every and I have like different duties like, organize events, help to students, go to board meetings. It is a lot of work but, you know, when you care about something, and you want to make a difference, all I could do, I just try my best. - You want the end of this. Around this time last year, the MRIs started to You know I look normal, I felt awesome. We just kind of went for it. So we had a brain surgery They were able to remove everything that they could safely remove. Right now we're on an every It's a day by day process. Oh, that's delicious. Here's the biggest knock on wood, I have That's a big deal. - You know, living with leukemia, and the disorders that I have, I am chronically fatigued. Like I really have to force I've been living with it's something that I - It's my dad. He's been through like Every milestone. I just want him to be I just don't want to lose him. - Knowing that Alexis and she works hard, gives that I really don't have raising my daughter. That job's been done. Now my job is to be there and to support her when she needs me. All right, I'll talk to you soon. - Okay. - Bye. Drive fast, take chances. - Come here, girl. For about a month or two, And we've done more tests and more tests. - Sit down. - And we're waiting to see what happens. It's scary. Because I've done everything Changed my diet, the people around me, the things that I do, the In making all those changes, I found her. And she has shown to be the - Excuse me, the - Oh wait, what? - Ouch. - The new thing right now with my health is that the right side of for some reason. And right now I'm just It is scary, but I'm trying my best to just be relaxed. And what I do every morning is listen to music . Music helps me. 'Cause when you feel the music, you don't want to just sit there. You want to, you want to go. - [Announcer] So the warmest, loudest, best welcome we've given anybody, please welcome Claire - The last few years, we've all been trying to encourage her But when she turned 18 she told us very clearly And it's her path, so - See when I was born, my life I knew that I wasn't gonna live very long. Both my parents have been to make me better, to stall the process, or to find miracles. But at the same time, kind of stepping back that has to occur when you have a terminal illness. And now kind of what happens, happens. - So my right side, I couldn't feel it at all. And now I can feel a little bit. I can write a little, I think what's so interesting is that, I don't think people look hm, she just went through something. Which is awesome because it's and just be a normal person. - You know I could just sit about how I'm hurting and I'm sore, or I could stay positive and fight through and whatever time I do have, I want to be able to And then when It's time to like, then I can be like, all right. And I can be satisfied with that. - All right, hot potato one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Couple days ago I shared my story with some of the kids from And a lot of them, they but they didn't know how serious it was. - Since you've been through so much, I want to change my action and attitude, and I want to thank you had gave all of us. - If your story can make a difference in a three year old's in a 20 year old life, Clap. Ah, right here. - Even though I have a condition, or I go through surgery, or I have problem, that I'm happy. I'm happy, I'm blessed. I am who I am, and I love it. - Being aware of the people for me has helped me in making better decisions about my life. When you have good people around you like I have good people around me, you just become a better person. - I was telling my kids today, that there was a time where because I thought I was But now I'm at peace with myself. And so, I mean, if that I mean I know that I gave, and I know that I made a difference. I'm good. - I tell people, you know, we all have our own cross we have to bear. But not to be defined by that Sometimes that's the if there's a life altering - This last year has been, I think the most spiritual I don't need to be able to I don't need to have everything done. I'm enjoying the process. Just allowing myself to just be. - Maybe we should stop fighting everything that we think needs changing. And start fighting for something. A lot of pressure for me to be the person that I want to be before I die. Even if I don't get to I want to do with my life. There's a sort of simple beauty to it all. I don't want to make this video. It hurts everything inside of So, pretty much, I'm getting new lungs. And it's very exciting and, I mean also completely But I can't work, and to be able to get through a transplant. I have a GoFundMe. Ah, I'm so uncomfortable. Yeah, there's a GoFundMe link down below, and I would be tremendously Have a great day, you know, go enjoy your life, really. I mean seriously, not in a sarcastic way, go enjoy it 'cause, there's people who are You know. So, there you go, adios amigos. There's so much that I want to say, and there's no way, there's no way for me to even articulate what you guys have done for me. I don't have any words, really, to say how grateful I am. There's no way to describe it. So I guess now is just a and like doing this, you know? So, I guess let's do this. It's terrifying to be invested in life. One of the most terrifying because you know inevitably, But it's also the thing really worth anything. This year has been a and to throwing yourself into things, even though you know you're gonna lose. That's kinda where I'm at. So in the end, I'm not even really losing. Yeah. Soul Pancake Subscribe