Who can imagine Paris today without it? It is one of the world's As much a symbol of France La Tour Eiffel, the Eiffel Tower, Photographed from every angle, However, its creation was anything In fact, it was a mad dream It was twice as high as the next-highest The dream was that of a man named Eiffel. Gustave Eiffel. He fought for years to erect, a tower that nobody wanted. This metal tower The local residents were furious. Against all the odds, Eiffel would take the helm take on previously and revolutionize The challenge was to build something It was an unprecedented technical feat. More than anything, and come close to bankruptcy. How did Gustave Eiffel How did he succeed in erecting in just two years, This is the incredible story This incredible tale began Two complete unknowns To build the world's highest tower. It was June 1884. A far cry from today's modern buildings, and a firm of architects However, deep inside the workshop, two men had spent the previous few days They were both engineers Their names were Maurice Koechlin They were in the process of designing At first sight, almost like our modern electricity pylons. In fact, that was unimaginably tall, Unprecedented at the time. One thousand feet is 300 meters, The two engineers for by the end of the 19th century, no man-made structure In fact, nothing had even come close, even the biggest of the Egyptian pyramids. That of Cheops, The world's tallest tower in the capital of the USA, Its height is a mere 169 meters. To build something twice as tall, 300 meters, The question was, &quot;Would they manage it?&quot; Would France be the first country Koechlin and Nouguier were convinced thanks to technological innovation. The tower would be entirely made of iron, a building material and just as durable. After several checks they were finally sure. Breaking the height record The only problem was that before they needed the green light He wasn't just any boss. He was one of France's greatest engineers and a celebrity in his field. His name, Gustave Eiffel. Iron structures He had built many stations, viaducts and ever more ambitious bridges Two current constructions and still stand today. One in the middle of the Massif Central One hundred and twenty meters it was the world's highest bridge Four hundred men Gustave Eiffel and invited photographers The other had an even higher The Statue of Liberty, It was a gift to the USA from France Its creator, asked Eiffel In fact, the whole skeleton This giant work was built before being dismantled For the entire duration it was great publicity for Gustave Eiffel. People came to visit and see the statue. Even the writer Victor Hugo had paid a visit giving Eiffel even greater kudos. As it meant, he was now recognized in the art of metal construction. In the spring of 1884, Eiffel was not short Business was good, and he was not the type When the two young engineers came to him his reaction was swift and resolute. Eiffel saw the drawing and said &quot;I'm not interested.&quot; Just like that, I'm not interested. However, I want you to work on it. A 300-meter tower? Why not? Gustave Eiffel asked his engineers to come up with something more aesthetically pleasing. What he wanted was an edifice for an idea was forming in his mind. He wanted to present a project for an event that would take place and which would have a global impact. An event which was in all the papers Yesterday morning, the government decided would open in Paris in 1889 to commemorate the centenary Universal exhibitions where the latest technical innovations During this period, The electric locomotive, the first telephones, not to mention the first typewriters It would be a huge communication exercise its industries and its reliability. However, Eiffel knew he would need something spectacular. Each exhibition had been defined In the 1851 exhibition in London, the British had scored high a spectacular 40-metre-high structure A triumph of its time. The Paris edition of 1878 saw the construction A huge building which housed For the forthcoming 1889 exhibition, something truly spectacular What was at stake? The ability to show the world that French science and technology The reason that Eiffel was unconvinced was that he did not see would attract the crowds Their plans so that people Aesthetically, For Koechlin and Nouguier, They recruited a third man, who was a friend of the business He agreed to work on his associate's pylon He designed arches between the feet, However, the main thing he did into a leisure facility. Visitors would be able to go up on it. There would be three storeys At the summit, there would be a dome and a beacon to light up the city. It would be a tower like no other, and Parisians would probably Their boss started to take an interest. He signed his name and offered the engineers a deal. Emile Nouguier and Maurice Koechlin agreed to cede all rights In return, they were offered a tidy sum, one percent each of the costs of the work This meant that each could potentially a small fortune. First, they would have to be victorious Gustave Eiffel was far The city's greatest architects One of them stood out His offices were just a few kilometers in the heart of Paris. He was none other than Jules Bourdais. It was he for the previous exhibition of 1878. He was a star among engineers One of the most famous French architects Bourdais' response was a building It was a 1000-foot tower too. It was christened the Sun-Column. It was divided into five levels. On the ground floor, Each floor would house hospital wards for invalids who needed to breathe At the very top, an electric beacon as if it were daytime. It was a majestic project the tower would be made of stone, just like all the prestigious monuments Unlike Gustave Eiffel's which was causing outrage. Iron was not a respected material It represented modernity. It represented industry. It was the material one saw warehouses, and factories. Opposed to Jules Bourdais's Eiffel's Iron Tower had every chance by the Universal Exhibitions jury. Therefore, in order to win, Eiffel would use the influence even if it meant employing In early 1886, he had a meeting in Paris's Marais district. The man he had come to meet who was not only the trade minister the man in charge Things looked promising for Eiffel, as the minister was not a great fan He had commissioned a survey that there could be Its colossal weight would have to be excavated It seemed risky. Conversely, Eiffel's metal tower This was a forward-looking structure. Eiffel now realized His arguments eventually convinced Lacroix to promise his support in making the tower in the heart of Paris, This was a huge step but that alone was not enough. The minister A panel of 29 people At this point, He simply rigged the competition. A few weeks later, on May 2nd, 1886, Edward Lacroix published the rules Reading the details, did everything in his power Competitors will have to study of erecting an iron tower An iron tower, that alone was enough to eliminate However, that was not the end of it. A tower with a square base and standing 300 meters tall. What a coincidence. The prescribed dimensions were exactly The competition's specifications are the exact copy The competition was, in short, a sham. With the rules designed Eiffel could not lose. Therefore, it was he who was tasked with building The inauguration date The tower would have to be completed This was a very short time frame with all its potential obstacles. The problems began was turned over, with an attack The Avenue de la Bourdonnais has a fine selection Nowadays, these buildings However, at the time, The Champ de Mars with a few dwellings who appreciated the tranquility between the city and the countryside. Among the inhabitants in late 1886 was one particularly incensed woman. She was the Countess of Poor. The windows of her mansion looked out She had a view of a small park for local residents Then she heard was going to be built The Countess was livid. This tower would ruin her view With the aid of a neighbor, she attempted The case took on greater Further explanation at the Musee d'Orsay in Paris. The imposing dossier is marked Inside is the original letter In which he states she was given a guarantee that the park for the use of its residents. According to the Countess, this meant that the tower The park must be permanently preserved with a right of access for the plaintiff. This legal broadside The state was now reluctant Meanwhile, work on the Champ de Mars site This was particularly problematic as any delay had financial implications. He was at risk of financial collapse. Clarification can once again be found where a priceless document is held. It is an agreement signed by the state regarding the construction It explains that the engineer The state contributions were dependent Five hundred thousand francs 500,000 francs on completion and a further 500,000 francs Until these stages were completed, Eiffel would have to pay out of his own pocket. Each day the project was delayed and there were less than two before the Universal Exhibition. The engineer could not afford Should the women win their case, he would take responsibility fines, damages, He would even pay for it The engineer had gambled but this move reassured the authorities. The state greenlighted the project. A few weeks later, the Countess Meanwhile, work could, at last, begin. On January 26th, the sound of men at work rang out for the first time. A gigantic building site was underway Spades, wheelbarrows, The legal case had wasted a lot of time. However, the early days Workers found a parcel of land It would be impossible to sink foundations Indeed, two of the tower's pillars In order to find solid ground, the foundations would have to be dug well Gustave Eiffel then stunned Parisians He used a system of watertight chambers to enable the workers The idea was to use sealed metal chambers, which would be lowered into the river The bottomless chambers where the workers The compressed air drove the water out, and dig until The more the workmen dug, The mud was evacuated bit by bit After a few days, The workmen found the layer of limestone When they reached then the chambers were filled with cement which the Eiffel Tower rests on. The excavation chambers had been converted which would support the tower. However, having overcome Eiffel would then On February 14th, the newspaper Le Temps, We come as writers, painters, sculptors, and indignation against the erection in the very heart of the capital. The petition was signed and artists of the period. In an impassioned treatise, with what they called his factory chimney. There was a reluctance to look forward, a love of old stone, They thought it was ugly. Eiffel was cut to the quick, but his counterattack He had been warned about the petition senator and press baron, Adrien Hebrard. Notably, Hebrard was the director in which the artists He had alerted Eiffel giving the engineer time which appeared in the same paper just a few lines beneath it. Point by point, gently mocking his opponents. There are, among the signatories, and hold in the highest esteem. Others are known putting a flower on their bodice, or for wittily scribbling Well, frankly, I do not believe The protesters were ridiculed. Now the work really needed to get going. Eiffel used to build his tower in record time Despite the Herculean nature there were very few workers. At most, In fact, the 300-meter tower was not being built here, In Eiffel's workshop, to design the 18,000 pieces It was all built here, Everything was perfected in a workshop. You had 18,000 modular pieces, and they were taken That was the secret of the tower, and that's what would make Gustave Eiffel On-site, the major part of the work It was a huge challenge. Every girder and that required four-man teams. One worker heated the rivet, the second positioned it in the hole and two others hammered it to flatten the ends of the rivet. The rivet then cooled down In so doing, they pulled the iron plates In all, the workers fitted Thanks to this well-oiled organization, However, Gustave Eiffel was still not sure He knew that one critical stage In December 1887, The pillars were now 60 meters high. Only one-fifth of their total height. It was the moment of truth. Would the four-feet Eiffel and his engineers reviewed with a model of the tower. If the workers didn't manage the tower would be out of kilter and unable to survive the winds We can see that as they started and as they were everything had to come together To complete the assembly perfectly, they had to be able In theory, that was impossible. They weighed more than 70 tons. However, inside the structure itself, Gustave Eiffel On this diagram in red, Giant pistons worked with a hand pump. They could be used to slightly raise As a backup, Eiffel used a second system boxes of sand. They were placed at the top of the feet, in the metal structure. To tilt a pylon, they just had to open the box As soon as they reached they closed the box again. Using a combination the workers would be able to line up with those in the transverse girders December 17th, 1887, the critical day. At that moment, and it was a complete success. It was an extraordinary technical exploit. It required a level of organization and it succeeded. Less than a year the joining of the feet The girders were assembled without a single bit of filing The tower now had a solid base, from which you could rise What's more, by getting over Eiffel received the first cheque In principle, it was all looking good but financially, Eiffel reviewed his calculations. There was one thing One thing they couldn't do without, Today, from the ground to the first floor, Taking an elevator up 300 meters but at that time, and a great deal of money. Of course, at the end of the 19th century, The first one was designed On his plans, of the emergency brake by cutting the cable In France, it was the engineer Leon Edoux who exhibited the first prototype However, for the tower, would be needed. It was necessary to design lifts and that also, of course, One difficulty between the ground and the second floor. The lifts had to be a combination that rolled along a track It was really very technical, Gustave Eiffel knew that people Ever since his first project, about the feasibility in a tower that wasn't straight. He called in the best. The American, Otis, built two lifts They rebuilt bit by bit in New York Two other elevators, would go only as far as the first floor. They were designed by Frenchmen, These elevators ran on rails up an incline The most complex elevator was the one Of course, it was a straight run, but it had to rise 160 meters which had never been done. Eiffel turned to the French engineer, At the time, elevators that pushed the cabin upwards, but in this case, the height was so great that it would have needed that could have never been housed Edoux found a solution He would use two cabins Rather than going directly he envisaged two cabins The upper cabin coming down The lower cabin and the piston that pushed it To go all the way up Obviously, at the halfway point and that's where the cabins stopped. The passengers changed cabins Thanks to these different systems, to the top of the tallest tower Soon, but not immediately They now had to be built, Now, the tower wasn't going but seven million, the equivalent How could they raise Eiffel managed to do it on the other side of the world. Nine thousand kilometers another gigantic work site was under way. To link the Caribbean Sea they were digging a canal in Central America. It was the work of a French architect, He was known throughout the world at Suez in Egypt, It was a huge success, which brought Lesseps the Great Frenchman. They called him the Great Frenchman because he achieved the exploit that even and his prestige was sky-high, not only in France However, in Panama, He had wanted to repeat his exploit but this time The Panama Canal was, than the Suez Canal. In Egypt, He committed a technical error. He wanted to do the Panama Canal, but he hadn't taken into account It wasn't possible. As well as the technical problems, the workers had to cope Thousands were dying. The company Lesseps sought a solution. Since it was impossible he had to find another way It would be possible There was one man capable the King of Iron, Gustave Eiffel. Lesseps called on his colleague for help. Eiffel realized that he had a chance so he imposed conditions Eiffel's reaction at that moment &quot;However, it's going to cost you.&quot; &quot;Not only do I want a considerable sum, Eiffel was giving a huge order. A dozen locks, for which he asked He was paid an advance of 70 million. That's ten times From then on, there were no further Panama financed the tower. That was the masterly gamble Eiffel's financial problems were over. The tower continued to make headway The object that nobody wanted to see where Parisians were amazed to see For them, it was like living a fairy tale. It was a show, and they went to see it It must be said that there was no At 170 meters, it was the highest building in the world It was the demonstration Gustave Eiffel was optimistic. There were still eight months They'd just finished the second floor. It seemed and that's when the very people who, for months had been building the tower One morning in September 1888, the workers put down their tools They were protesting To keep to the deadlines, they'd been asked 12 hours a day in summer Every morning, almost 200 meters above the ground. They had to eat up there so as not to waste time Up there, The height was more and more dizzying. The teams demanded danger money. For Gustave Eiffel, the strike could not have come and he was offended by the claims. After all, he'd never had a single death As much as he tried to make he still didn't tolerate opposition. He told the workers to work up at 200 meters than at 50. If ever anyone were to fall, He told them, &quot;I'll reduce the number &quot;for those prepared to go up&quot; &quot;because of the extra time &quot;Instead of working 12 hours, &quot;and I won't increase your wages.&quot; &quot;I'll give you a bonus After a few days of negotiations, This time, Eiffel knew that nothing He had won his bet. On Sunday, March 31st, 1889, Gustave Eiffel accompanied by one of his daughters Two years, two months, he raised the French flag The inauguration was an amazing success. On the 31st of March, he hoisted the French flag It was a triumphant day. However, Gustave Eiffel didn't forget that building the Eiffel Tower Seven million francs. About EUR100 million today. From now on, and he had it all planned. Standing at the end of the Champ de Mars, the tower served as the entrance A gigantic gateway because it was lit up at night The first way to protect the iron, both of which are naturally red. In 1889, it was completely red. The main source of profit was, of course, The prices were fixed by the state. To go up to the top of the tower and five francs during the week, Expensive, but the tower's power were fighting to get tickets. Even though the elevators 29,000 people bought tickets to climb up to the third level and see for the first time The unrestricted view of the capital. At the very top, Gustave Eiffel They were the only private places All the rest was designed On the second level, There was also a 250-seat theater, tobacconists, and Eiffel received rent The tower's success The visitors' book shows in The Cowboy Buffalo Bill came, as well as crowned heads future Edward the Seventh of England, or the young Nicholas son of the Tsar and himself, future Tsar of Russia, However, for Gustave Eiffel, the visit that counted above The American inventor and the phonograph, gratified the French engineer To Mr. Eiffel, the engineer, the brave builder of modern engineering The exhibition lasted six months Two million visitors. The ticket sales and this money was added to the money Gustave Eiffel was now extremely rich. However, there was one point The tower was temporary. This had been the plan and the agreement signed with the state. Eiffel could manage the tower Then, the land would be given back and most probably He wanted to avoid that at all costs. To save the tower Eiffel wanted to prove and that it could be useful so he multiplied the experiments. He made the tower where he carried out tests He was convinced he would save it from destruction. However, he hadn't accounted for an event An event that would throw him and drag his name into the mud. The affair erupted on September 6th, 1892, The Panama Scandal. Gustave Eiffel was seriously implicated. What had happened? To understand, Remember, the works on the Panama Canal Cutting into the mountain was a nightmare. To get out of trouble, Ferdinand de Lesseps placed an order and he paid the top price for them. Seventy million francs at the time. To raise this money, Lesseps had an idea by launching a national loan, but to do that he needed the support and that's where it all went wrong. To do this, To get the law passed, he bribed MPs, so the Panama affair Corrupt members of Parliament to invest in a high risk venture. The Panama Company collapsed and thousands of small savers Gustave Eiffel was in a delicate position because, he made 33 million francs profit In short, he had made a lot of money The fact that he got rich obviously, that caused a lot of anger. To which Eiffel replied, &quot;I haven't wronged anyone. &quot;Why are they picking on me?&quot; However, for the far right, Not only because he'd made a lot of money, Eiffel had always been attacked Gustave had not always As this register shows, the engineer was born with the name The name came from his Germanic ancestors, The family had been settled in France Even so, at the time, Bonickhausen A few years earlier, in 1870, a national disaster Eiffel had Bonickhausen removed but that made no difference He was still called a German, he was also called a Jew. At the time, it was quite often thought It was classic in people's imaginations to associate a German name In fact, this association when people no longer tended to imagine At a time it was yet another pretext as did this anti-Semitic author Well-informed people who turns up with a tower, is nothing less than a Jew. There are some ideas Nobody but a Jew In the face of these attacks, Eiffel was forced to vindicate I am neither Jew nor German. I was born in France, However, with the Panama scandal, The hero of the tower who wanted to ruin France. In an explosive atmosphere, he was finally convicted He was reproached for having asked In short, Eiffel was found guilty. but he fought back and took the affair The Appeal Court annulled his conviction. However, they didn't give a new judgment but by simply stating In short, Eiffel then started a descent into hell. His name, which had been praised was now synonymous with scandal. Humiliation followed humiliation. In Dijon, his native town, they had named this bridge Four years later, The esteem of the public People thought he was a crook The tower wasn't doing much better. It was as if its destiny was linked It was being spurned. The drop in attendance was spectacular. From two million visitors the year Eiffel was convicted. His opponents had him in their sights in a commission presided over the architect Jules Bourdais, who was clamoring The district had to be reorganized. They had to get rid of that monster. Eiffel retired from business and devoted himself However, he was chomping at the bit. There were only 10 years He had to prevent the destruction However, a stranger While Gustave Eiffel a 45-year-old army officer His name was Gustave Ferrie, and he had opted to serve and he was a specialist The TSF wireless telegraphy a completely new field It would soon be possible to communicate Captain Ferrier had discovered that the bigger the aerial the further you could communicate. The tower was ideal for his experiments. However, The army was still using homing pigeons and didn't believe in this business Eiffel didn't hesitate for a moment. He was a scientist, and he was convinced If the tower could help the army, He took on all the costs The first communications In 1906, Ferrier managed to communicate A year later, Another five years Progress was staggering. The Army could no longer ignore That was when the fate There was no longer any talk Forget it, it's all over, Gustave Eiffel saved his tower His great work would, year after year, be confirmed Gustave Eiffel died in 1923 The Eiffel Tower was then still exactly 312 meters high, However, the race to reach the clouds In 1931, in New York, the Empire State Building 381 meters, It reigned overall for 40 years. In 1973, still in New York, the World Trade Center with its twin towers In 2004, the competition moved to Asia. The Taipei Tower in Taiwan Then, in 2010, 828 meters. Next to come which will be the first to break That's more than three Eiffel Towers For a long time now, the old Iron Lady but she showed