I was born in Hildale, Utah, which the Utah I was born a seventh-generation fundamental Every generation from Joseph Smith's day I was born in a fundamentalist group. I was born and raised in the Kingston group. Joseph Smith Joseph Smith started it. Polygamy The principle Pure Mormonism The highest principle of the gospel is plural It was essential to their salvation. That's what we were taught. [SUSAN] Being raised in fundamentalist Mormonism, We lived polygamy. We did not celebrate Christmas, we celebrated [NARRATOR] The mainstream Mormon church, or The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is led by a man who a considered a living the only authorized successor to the founder But the mainstream Mormon Church does not "Mormon." There are many so-called Mormon Fundamentalists prophet, which include the requirement of polygamy The Mainstream LDS Church, however, has abandoned though it still teaches that plural marriage Mainstream Mormons do not consider the fundamentalists lifestyle. Likewise, the fundamentalist Mormons consider precisely because it abandoned the practice a practice which had been established as an and a requirement for all who would become The secretive lifestyle of Mormon Fundamentalists of how many there are. Most estimates range from fifty to one hundred [SUSAN] Polygamy is widespread and becoming There are polygamists everywhere, on their own and could be your next door neighbor, I believe that there's polygamy in probably [NARRATOR]: Many Mormon polygamists are not These are known as "independent fundamentalists." However, there are many organized groups of One of the largest, and most notorious of Christ commonly known. They occupy enclaves throughout many regions Their current leader is a man named Warren For several years, Jeffs was on the FBI's He was finally caught and arrested in 2006. Warren Jeffs is currently serving a lifetime to polygamy, girls. Nevertheless, he continues to rule with an And his followers still consider him to be [FLORA JESSOP] If you wanted to see what original [NARRATOR] Joseph Smith married his first In the first years of their marriage, he published and declared himself to be a prophet of God. By 1843, the Mormon Church was based in Nauvoo, Around this time, and much to the dismay of that he claimed was from God, which stated life and to become gods. This so-called "revelation" however coincided [SANDRA] It's obvious that Joseph Smith dictated the revelation. Because there's a verse in there that says has to accept those that have already been So the revelation itself shows that he was [NARRATOR] Rumors of Mormon polygamy were The published Mormon scriptures in use at included a denial of the practice polygamy. The original version of the Doctrine and Covenants a statement on marriage which affirmed that, reproached we declare that we believe that one man should [SANDRA] It's known that Joseph Smith had The extent of the list is debated, thirty-three beyond his legal wife. [NARRATOR] Of these thirty-three wives, ten Smith. The youngest was only fourteen years old. Joseph Smith's polygamy was exposed in a In retaliation, he ordered that the printing As a result, Smith was arrested and was put trial. Before his trial, however, the jail was stormed Shots were fired by both the mob and by Joseph The mob prevailed, and Joseph Smith was killed. In the aftermath of Smith's death, there leader of the church. The biggest dividing line was over the issue The leaders who rejected polygamy stayed behind and Joseph's widow, Emma. Brigham Young and the other polygamist leaders This monument marks where their journey ended It depicts three early LDS leaders, each of Among them, these men had more than one hundred In fact, the top fifteen leaders of the Mormon Many of their sermons and declarations are Journal of Discourses. Included in their sermons are statements that absolute necessity of polygamy. [DORIS] And Brigham Young was notorious for They would go to the men and say, You need to live it." They'd pressure the men to live polygamy. It was rampant in Salt Lake. [SUSAN] It was what does "everlasting" mean? That it should be lived forever. [SANDRA]: It was openly taught that God and Not just married, but polygamists. [NARRATOR] Although the Mormon Church had of years, in 1852. This drew the attention of the federal government, Nevertheless the Mormon Church continued to They even removed from their scriptures the and inserted Joseph Smith's revelation that This revelation became Section 132 of the The addition of Section 132 resolved the conflict polygamy, When increasing pressure from the federal to dismantle finally conceded, and in 1890, declared that cease the practice of polygamy in a statement [SUSAN] And that's why the fundamentalist church, that they believed was given by God. [PAUL] The fundamentalist groups, they felt marriage, of their church, and they were wrong. So they had to spin off from that group to [NARRATOR] The LDS Church's abandonment which continues to thrive today. Yet Section 132 still remains a part of both Which means that once again, there is a disparity doctrine, This puts modern-day Mormons in an awkward On one hand, they're taught to revere their Yet on the other, they are deeply offended [SANDRA] I'm a great-great granddaughter And Brigham Young had some fifty-some-odd he had fifty-six children. [NARRATOR] Polygamy is an undeniable part Joseph Smith was a polygamist. The early leaders of the church were polygamists. The first seven LDS prophets were polygamists. All of them were breaking the law, many were all for their practice of polygamy. So what happens when we compare the early leader like Warren Jeffs? After all, he is a polygamist. He has spent time in hiding, and he has been as those early Mormon leaders. Now, contrast this with the lifestyle of the law-abiding monogamists. It begs the question, who best represents The current LDS leadership, or polygamist [HOWARD] It's extremely hypocritical for when they're Mormon. Because Joseph Smith and Brigham Young did To a worse degree. [NARRATOR] Warren Jeffs is not alone. There are dozens of polygamist leaders, and presiding over thousands of fundamentalist compromised the practice of polygamy. [SANDRA] Most of the church leaders today practiced polygamy. But that's embarrassing for the church, endeavors. And the church today wants it both ways. They want to have Joseph Smith a prophet of but they want the ability to reject any of in today's world. It seems like an odd position to me. Either he was what he claimed to be, or he I don't see a middle ground here. [DORIS] Gordon Hinckley even had an interview When I hear statements like that, I just, coming from, they're brainwashing the world, because Joseph Smith, their prophet, said if you don't you do not get exalted in heaven. The Mormons need to own up to it. Polygamy is alive and well in the United States [HOWARD] Mainline Mormonism is very embarrassed By the beginnings of their religion. They talk nostalgically about Joseph Smith but boy, that's as far as it goes. Imitating their lives? Forget it. [NARRATOR] Joseph Smith established a series to summarize the beliefs and practices of And one of them reads, "We believe in being rulers and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, Polygamy is illegal today in the United States, that land, faith. Just as the early leaders of Mormonism were [SANDRA] It wasn't legal when Joseph Smith So I can see how the polygamists rationalize Joseph Smith went against the law. So did Brigham Young, so did John Taylor, All the presidents of the church that had knew they were going against the laws of the Now Mormons assume it was just a social practice, that supposedly there were so many women in that this was a means of taking care of them, the church quit practicing it. That is absolutely wrong. We can prove that the census that was taken shows that there never was a time when there so that was never the reason for polygamy. Its aim was a doctrinal issue of eternal life, not some social reform to take care of needy [JANIS] It was doctrinally driven, that if he had to practice polygamy. [SANDRA] The church today denying polygamy of denying what is really their doctrine. But it's hid from the convert. [HOWARD] Basically the fundamentalists and [JANIS] Both mainline Mormons and fundamentalist that one day a faithful man is going to become [SANDRA] The first time I can remember being grade, class, and asked me if I was a Mormon. And I said yes, and she said, "can you tell And I gave her the little couplet by Lorenzo "As man is, God once was, as God is, man And she looked at me with this horrified look and she said, "Sandra, that's blasphemy." And she walked away. And there I stood thinking, what was wrong I run it back through my mind, and it sounds I don't understand why she was so offended. [DORIS] God was once a man, he lived polygamy. And he had to go through eons of exaltation [JANIS] As he becomes a god, then he is going [DAVID] I believed as a mainstream Mormon That Jesus Christ was a polygamist. [SUSAN] We were taught that God the Father And were spirit children in heaven, and were [MARY] Giving physical bodies to spirit babies [HOWARD] The idea of becoming a god was intoxicating. It was a power trip. [SANDRA] And we all understood that man's his own world. [SUSAN] The rational of polygamy in the whole that's the way it's lived in heaven in [SANDRA] The concept of polygamy came from that man is going to progress to godhood, all the spirits [SUSAN] Our husband would become a god. We would be called "goddesses". [CATHLEEN] I could become a goddess if I did [SUSAN] We would be wombs for him to use to [MARY] The polygamy thing and the godhead It isn't possible for one god with one goddess to make all the spirit babies that come down [JANIS] So this where polygamy solves the If a man-slash-god has a thousand wives, he [MARY] And so these people who are now down and working out their salvation, are going to have to have multiple wives [DAVID] In the mind of a mainstream Mormon of heaven, [JANIS] Back in the mainline Mormon church, that one day they would definitely have to And the wife of one of the members of the and shed bitter tears over the fact that she anybody else, And, I mean, she suffered, suffered, over [DAVID] You can still see the doctrine of where a man can be sealed to multiple wives, man. [SANDRA] My own grandfather outlived my grandma, married a spinster school teacher there, before, and my family all is assured that grandpa in heaven as his plural wives to help him It is very much still a part of the doctrine it's just something that's kept in the When Joseph Smith introduced plural marriage, were single women, that had living husbands. And this is one of the problems in Mormon in trying to defend Joseph Smith's practice one of the things in the Doctrine and Covenants it talks about if a man has ten virgins, he I don't see anything in Joseph's revelation marrying married women, with living husbands. That seems to fall outside of even his own How do you explain his marriages to married The founder of Mormonism claimed polygamy If in fact it is not a doctrine, [SUSAN] I was raised Colonia LeBaron in Mexico, and he married a Mexican lady named Maria, [HOWARD] We had one house, five thousand square but that was my life growing up. I've got two brothers, the three of us are Three different moms. And so we grew up like triplets. But there's a huge lack of fathering in When you have seventy-two children like Rulon and you can't even remember their names. I mean, my dad had twenty-seven kids of his and I suffered under striving and trying to [MARY] My dad would never own up that I was My birth certificate says Roy Mackert is my There is no such person. Clyde Mackert is my father. He wouldn't own me. That hurts real deep. [DORIS] If you live in a polygamy group, you One way or another, even if you don't live there has to be lie and deceit in your life. There has to be. 'Cause there's always a cover up. You're told to cover up, you're told to you have to lie, to protect the group. [HOWARD] My dad went to prison in '53, marriage, [DORIS] All of the people in our group were you've got to be careful, they're spying make sure you don't say anything, the kingdom they will take us all and throw us in jail, not say anything, goes on in this group in the deepest depths of hell. And of course as a child, that really affects your whole thought process, your whole fear. [MARY] It draws you in, so you don't talk Because you might say something that would So you're scared to talk about anything [HOWARD] I went to public high school in Salt And it was hard. Because they really didn't like me. They didn't like what I stood for, religiously, because it's like, but you used to be like You guys worship Brigham Young, and yeah, school, But you wouldn't do what he did! You know, what, why are you picking on me? [DORIS] The abuse in a closed society will and the Kingston group and many of the other like the FLDS are extremely closed. And since there is no accountability in that then there's going to be a lot of abuse [MARY] The sexual abuse thing I don't want and say that all polygamist families have It happened to me. It has happened to other girls that I've known. And people who hear about this just are amazed with all these wives would be sexual predators And...and...why? I get that, why? And my only answer is that when old men daughters, as young as their daughters, My father was &quot;preparing us for marriage.&quot; [DORIS] Doctrine and Covenants Section 132 it was taught to us constantly, it was shoved In fact, they use it the way Joseph Smith threatening her with hell and damnation, live plural marriage, and teach the children they will be destroyed, we need to live plural marriage [HOWARD] Mary and I always had a great relationship, She was always my favorite sister. And we had a close relationship, and she just [MARY] My wedding day was bar none the saddest I tell people I've been to happier funerals. I was leaving all that knew and loved, And to what situation in his family, how many How many children, where they lived, I knew There was a horrible thunderstorm that day. And I remember sitting there in the car with and just praying, Lord, us. I'd rather die. I'd rather die. I begged God to take me. Car accident. Lightning, please from heaven, strike me, I was seventeen. Seventeen years old, and my husband was fifty. He was older than my father. I became the sixth out of seven wives to him. [HOWARD] And we weren't told who she was and it was probably three or four years before [MARY] I believe that secretiveness began The secretiveness is because of what society that old men are sleeping with little girls. Fourteen, fifteen, sixteen year old little When they're old enough to be their father. There's people who'd just go on the warpath. And so it's kept on the hush. [SUSAN] I was pursued from the time I was And ended up marrying Verlan LeBaron who was and I became his sixth wife. He was thirty-eight, and I was a week past [SANDRA] Well, you take a Mormon and put all you can show that the leaders said it was And that's how they convinced people to into the different polygamist groups. [JANIS] When I was in the Mormon Church, I And I just felt I needed more. And my driving urge was that I wanted to become I ended up deciding to join this small fundamentalist Pretty soon, I mean, I was miserable. But there was no way I was going to leave, God to go into this group. [DAVID] I was raised as a seventh-generation The goal of my life was to follow Joseph Smith As I studied the Journal of Discourses, one emphasis on the plurality of gods. Not only that, but the teaching of polygamy And the teaching that in order to become gods, It would be inconsistent with early Mormon God So I made the decision to come out here to The LDS Church excommunicated me not so much but for my having been baptized into a splinter People will say, well, you joined the TLC I say no, I'm a man who wanted to live consistent and the teachings of Joseph Smith, who I believed and Brigham Young who I believed to be a prophet [CATHLEEN] And I loved Joseph Smith with all Because that's what you're told a lot, it's all about him. And I felt like I had to do everything that all of it, fear is that I wouldn't be with God. So I just felt like that's what I had to And then when I married, that's what he and so that began our search into finding When I was excommunicated from the Mormon oozing [DAVID] If Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, and today, polygamy. [CATHLEEN] That was the big selling point That was the main selling point to get you Well, Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, John Heber C. Kimball, Wilford Woodruff, none of [MARY] The Mormon Church had apostatized from [SUSAN] All other churches were wrong, including [HOWARD] Yeah, the mainline Mormon Church, deceived people, [DORIS] The Kingstons believe and teach that they've apostatized when they gave up the [SANDRA] There've been over a hundred different [CATHLEEN] Within all the different fundamentalist the Kingston group, LeBaron group, the... what they ever tell you in the paper, too. [SANDRA] So there are many groups today that It isn't just one church, there are many as their head. [PAUL] The leader that I followed was named And I just figured he was God's anointed, That's all there was to it. [SUSAN] And our prophet was the only true [DAVID] Jim Harmston, he claimed to have been [SUSAN] Joel LeBaron, who was the prophet. [SANDRA] Gordon B. Hinckley [JANIS] John Bryant [SUSAN] The Church of the Firstborn of the [CATHLEEN] The Righteous Branch of the Church [DAVID] The True and Living Church of the [SUSAN] Our church was the only true church [MARY] We were taught that we were the true [DORIS] The only ones that have the truth. [CATHLEEN] The one true church. [SANDRA] The only true church. [DAVID] The only true church on the face of [PAUL] To me that's so amazing that the all the people in the world are going to go [CATHLEEN] We were converted in Salt Lake. And then they said, come down to the city They said it's a beautiful city of God. So we went down there. We hadn't been in too long. Oh, my heart. It's just, I said, the only Celestial Kingdom It was so bad. Trailers just flung in there any old way, the streets and said, Is it fear that holds women in polygamous For fear of being destroyed like Joseph Smith For me it was. For me it was. Because I had to strive to be an elect lady, was to be submissive to my husband. And if I wasn't, and I didn't give him And would be damned. That's absolutely taught in fundamentalist [MARY] When you're married in the principle, his resources. And every day you're having to do it better [SUSAN] You really didn't have a good solid Because you knew that he wasn't just yours. You couldn't build this bond with him, because you would be disappointed. He was gone, he was with other wives. There was the constant feeling of jealousy. [MARY] It's not a peaceful existence. [CATHLEEN] Behind the scenes, it's not happyville. And there is horrible trouble between sister It is not a pleasant way to live. It's horrible. There's so much gaming that goes on between [MARY] Lying in my bed love to another woman, is abusive. It's emotional abuse. It's torture, it's torment for a woman. Women need to feel secure. [SUSAN] Verlan and I had been married for courting another girl I couldn't believe that he was, after four and during the time I had seen him so little, to find that he was courting Lily, I felt [CATHLEEN] You've given a wife to your husband, it kills. I thought I was literally going to die. I was begging for death, I was just, I could [SUSAN] To see him leave you, leave you and going to another wife, it is heartbreaking. [MARY] And so those women with those big smiles They've buried it, and they've put on "I'm not jealous of my sister wife, I Oh really. I just think you don't feel your feelings Denial was my drug of choice, too. For you feel like all those feelings and emotions wicked and evil, those bad feelings, you need to repent. And pretty soon, all your feelings are buried. No matter what happened, I just kept plugging duty. You never know for sure that you have a home There's never a day that you know. It's always work, work, work, try, try, Every day of your life is a crap shoot, because You never know when you've done enough. [SUSAN] What led me to start to question polygamy...number the loneliness that I saw in my husband's Plus I was angry at God, okay for his daughters to be lonely and without and yet how he could love his sons so much I started studying the scriptures, and I decided where I would start. I read in the Book of Mormon that God was it called it an abomination in the sight of and said they should have one wife, and concubines And I read this throughout so many of the and it confused me. You know, I started looking at the Bible and these things The Doctrine and Covenants revelations that commanded polygamy. And how God could change from saying it was to commanding Joseph Smith's church to live didn't make sense to me. So I kept studying more and more about this, that And why did God give Adam one wife? He could have given him more at that point, and the whole thing just was totally confusing From everything that I started to study, polygamy Bible. And I remember times when I would try to talk particular, I said to him, why is it that God says here should be the husbands of one wife? And he just laughed and kind of passed it since then we've had the new and everlasting And I said to my husband, how is it that it the church well. And I said, I don't think you're managing And he says, in what way am I not managing And I said, well, you're never home for Not only that, but you have so many wives, never a father for your children, they don't So I don't consider that good management [HOWARD] Throughout my life I would hit this And I'd go to my dad and I'd say, "Dad, What about this, and this, and this? They just don't add up." And he'd say, "Well, son, just put it truth and knowledge to you, And I was haunted by those things that just [JANIS] And I asked if I could drive in my and they thought I wanted to go and pray and I've had of joining this group. And I just needed to get away. Way out in the middle of nowhere was this So I slipped inside that only because I was that Sunday. So I began to hear for the first time about I learned that I was a sinner. And began to understand more what Jesus actually So I was able to attend for about four Sundays, And they found back on the farm, and I was "Have you been going to that little church?" All this rage broke loose, adultery, and I was worshiping at the altar by going into this Christian church? So I was ordered to hand over the keys to On the back of the property was a large building but unfinished on the inside except for one And that's where I was put until I could They wanted me to come into the meeting and by going to the Christian church, and to denounce And I wouldn't do that. [SANDRA] When I got into college and was going I started asking questions in class, and finally I started asking questions in class, and finally that's thinking of joining the Mormon Church." And I'm sitting there thinking, "Well, But I was silenced. [DAVID] After I joined the TLC, I started What I saw was that Joseph Smith had rewritten had lied, polygamy. Joseph Smith lied about polygamy for the same that anybody would lie about anything that If something was clearly of God, why would [PAUL] I knew I could never be good enough I could never be that good. And what was funny was, that's the truth! I couldn't. The requirements were too high. And so I really started searching for the [MARY] I had been told that everything outside, and evil, My father had told us that if they knew who they would chew you up and spew you out. When I married, we lived on Third Avenue and And Ruthie was a woman who lived across the And Ruthie had this little habit of stepping she'd get in my personal space. And I would keep stepping back, and she would And as we were doing this little dance on and grabbed my arm. And I felt the love of that woman. And saw the love in her eyes. I knew she loved me. And I knew I'd been lied to. For not everyone out there hated me. And if they had lied to me about this, [PAUL] Well, the thing that keeps them in is because they've been taught since birth that's the only place it is. That if they leave, they'll go to hell. It's as simple as that. [MARY] I said Lord, if these are your people, I don't want to be where they are. [DORIS] And I chose, I consciously chose, I remember that, I remember that decision, But I knew somebody who would help me. And so we made the plans three days after they were going to meet me in front of the And that's what I did. That's what I did. I remember getting in the car and driving and I remember such a sense of freedom come [HOWARD] In the polygamous group where they the girls got a week's notice that they a dress together or borrow one, And they got married. I got a phone call from Roy Johnson, the leader And he said, "do you know so-and-so?" I said, no, I knew of her, but I didn't And he says, "Well, I want you to go meet If I say no, I'm out. Pack your bags, you're out of the community, You're ostracized because you don't rebel So married that gal that I didn't really Even the marriage was used as a way to control After three and a half months, almost four I don't love you. I tried to, I don't. Go home, they'll give you to somebody who You know, girls hear this and they're, "Oh, And I'm like, no, it was desperation. It was survival. I just about got trapped in something that I had to come to the point where I just said, hell. But I gotta get out of here." [CATHLEEN] And they wanted to give my husband and I said, "Well, if you take her for a And I won't be a party to it." Well, then there's always the whippings went from bad to worse, That's when I left. But I just couldn't take it anymore. I was just dying. [PAUL] I left the only life that I'd ever I was fifty-seven years old when I left, and I still didn't know God, still didn't But I knew that that wasn't it. [SUSAN] Ervil LeBaron, Joel's younger brother, And so he had his brother Joel murdered. We'd been taught from the time I was a little Christ's second coming. When that didn't happen, yeah, my faith At the point that Verlan started to court I knew that I just couldn't hang around I needed to get my children and myself and I was twenty-three, and we left the colony, That I was leaving for good. Of course I really didn't know what I was I was scared, I felt very, very lost. [JANIS] I was locked a small eight-by-ten I was in that room for about nine months. My health deteriorated terribly. When I was in that room, every day I prayed out of there, God as a covenant-breaker. So come what may, I would not try to escape. And one day I was praying, I was kneeling and right in the middle of a sentence, I was shall deliver you." And I remember sitting back on my knees, and And then the light dawned, aha! If he's going to deliver me, that must mean And fortunately, the front door was unlocked, car, So got in my car, and out of the side view the car. And oh, boy, I just rammed that accelerator, rammed the passenger side of the car to a and I took off down that driveway, and I was [DORIS] When I left the group, I was empty-headed I wasn't allowed to have an opinion. You are so nobody, you are so nothing, and for the world. A lot of women that leave, a lot of men that because of that brainwashing I think is the In here, you're going to go to hell, you're hell, you're going to go to hell. The only way is back. The only way is back. My biggest fear was, what if I die, was true after all? And it scared me. Through all of those years after I left the The only God I knew was the God of the polygamy God hated me. I'd been taught that all my life, he hated And so the best thing to do is to run away Which I did, for years, and years. [HOWARD] It always blew me away when, if my and they'd join the Mormon Church. And I'm like, ah! What are you doing? If the root's bad, the tree's bad, the If polygamy is wrong, and that's why you It just dumbfounded me. I'm like, it's the same thing, boys. You know? It's just white-washed a little bit, acceptable than the fundamentalists. You know, if you want to get free, get free. All the way. [CATHLEEN] My children were pushing at me So, being the pleaser that I've been through but when I went to get re-baptized back in I felt absolutely icky about it. I didn't feel right in doing it. But I did, to please my kids. And that became a living hell also for me. And so I just started to plead with God, teach free, And I told Father in Heaven, I said, you take 'cause I can't stand this anymore, or because I can't live this way anymore. Not there, not here. I said Father, somewhere, there's gotta Somewhere. I gotta find it. I told the Lord, I said, Father in Heaven, and knees, you're at, and that's what you want, I'll Or I'll say in the Mormon Church, if that's I will do anything you want me to do. I just want to be where the truth is, and and strength. Just take me there. Please! I've begged him, and it's just opening And it's still very hard for me, because and I told God I will do whatever you want, you want me to go, don't let go of me. Because I love him. And that's why I'm here, because it feels at this point in my life. And I just told him, I said I can't stand It's gotta be cleared up for me. I can't live in it any more, take me home crazy, to find you, you know? [HOWARD] I had no idea that the Bible contradicted [MARY] Joseph Smith questioned the final authority, [DAVID] As a mainstream Mormon and as a fundamentalist, the Bible. That the Bible wasn't sufficient, that it [PAUL] They teach that the Bible is right which they claim it has not been. [DAVID] The question became, can I trust the Has it been translated correctly? And we could look at the history of the manuscript and we can see how clearly God had set his from all other works of antiquity. Just by virtue of the amount of manuscripts [DORIS] One of the first things I started Bible teaches And I remember sitting down, opening the Bible, And searching, and searching, and searching! And it wasn't there! [PAUL] To realize who Jesus really was, was it just seemed like it was plain then, the [DORIS] And one of the most amazing things God. That just blew me away. [PAUL] The Mormon Church and the fundamentalists, their Jesus is not the Jesus of the Bible. Their Jesus is somebody that they can become How can you worship a god, if you can be his God says he doesn't change. Same yesterday, today, and forever. [CATHLEEN] And I began study in the Bible, where God said I'm the same yesterday, today, [HOWARD] Isaiah forty verse 8, that the grass [DORIS] ...the grass withers... [DAVID] ...the grass withers... [DORIS] ...and the flowers fall, but... [SANDRA] ...the Word of God... [DORIS] ...the Word of our God... [DAVID] ...but the word of God... [DORIS] ...will stand forever. [MARY] ...forever. [DAVID] ...forever. [SANDRA] ...forever. [CATHLEEN] ...forever. [HOWARD] ...the word of God endures forever. [DAVID] And either those things were true, [DORIS] If God said it, isn't he strong Isn't he able to keep his word? If he said it, he can do it. And I went, well yeah, of course, that makes That's obvious. And from that point on, I believed everything And it said, God loves you. And that was where God just took his arrow because I'd never heard that before, never. It had always been, God hated you. It's so exciting when you've been raised the beauty of the truth, and the simplicity And yet the depths of it! When I became a Christian, and I realized And I look back, and what I'd...that wasn't I hadn't learned any good news when I was Everything that I'd learned as the gospel That's why I ran away from it, because it Well, the good news is focused on a person. The gospel is a person. Salvation is a person. The first time I went to church after I was And I just stood there and bawled. I just cried and cried the whole service, I thought everybody thought I was really weird, Because everything was Jesus-centered. In the group, in the polygamy group, everything It's not you-centered, you do die to yourself a person. It's them-centered. So when you get out and you see that Jesus it's just...it's just so awesome, beauty that permeates your soul and it changes It's awesome. [SUSAN] I was invited to go to a Christian to want to step into one of these churches abomination. You know, the Lord just really spoke to my I felt like the pastor's message was directed And before I knew it, I was standing there, crying, and I didn't know why. And I accepted Jesus as my savior that day. [JANIS] I could rest in what Jesus did for Because how on earth could I earn my salvation? [CATHLEEN] Just knowing that I don't have because no matter what I could do, I could Not on anything I could do. I couldn't have been good enough. And that's the joke of it all, that the They're never going to be good enough, and their hearts, Christ already did it! [JANIS] Oh, my goodness yes. My goodness yes! If God says he's gonna deliver you, he'll He's done a pretty good job, I'd say! [SANDRA] I realized that the Mormon concept That I was outside of God's favor because that it was only the atonement of Christ that Now the Mormons talk about the atonement of full payment. Besides the atonement of Christ, a Mormon and be faithful to the Mormon Church to have And here I was hearing this man preach on that this was the means for eternal life. That eternal life is fully provided through to God. So listening to this radio program, I accepted [PAUL] There's nothing that we can do because Because he's God. The only reason he could do it is because And he shed his blood once for all. The Holy Spirit convicted me. All of a sudden, everything made sense. Just like, I was in total darkness, and Jesus I could see. It all made sense. And I got on my knees and confessed my sin, He did not disappoint me. Before that time, I was so racially prejudiced I was really bad. I know the leader, Ortell, the one that I and they taught that, and they believe that That was completely gone that night. I couldn't have done that in a lifetime. But Jesus took from me in an instant what [DAVID] Fundamentalism was not able fill that I realized that Mormonism was clearly Joseph I've repented for thinking that God was I mean, that's just utterly blasphemous. I've repented for thinking that blood of Those things strike at the very character And so that's why I am where I am today. I was looking for something, really I was I was looking for Jesus Christ. And I finally found him. [HOWARD] I was very hungry for the truth. So I started going to church. I was like a huge sponge, just taking in everything Everything I'd known was skewed, if not The Mormon god was very impersonal. Very mundane. I mean he was a couple notches above me. There wasn't anything really awesome about that happened to catch some breaks, and become Instead of this awe-inspiring God that we the whole universe came into existence. Now there's a God I can fall on my face I said, I've made a mess of my life, I'm and I'm just bombing out every time I turn help me. I expected a new person. And the cool thing was is the next morning, [MARY] I remember, finally, when I left, I years old. And five children to be responsible for. I couldn't embrace a religion. But God showed me that it wasn't about religion. It was about a relationship. I didn't need a priest, I didn't a church, And he met me. Just him and I. And told God that I knew that I couldn't I knew there were things I'd done in my And things I'd done that day that didn't and I knew that I would do things tomorrow And I told God that I knew that Jesus Christ to pay the sin debt of the world. And I asked God if he would take that blood And I told him that I wanted to live for him, of my life. And when I finished praying that night, I me, was indescribable. And I thought, surely it would wear off. It would go away. It was just one of those emotional highs. One of those burning in the bosom things. And it wasn't gone in the morning. And it didn't go away in the next day, and the next week and the next month and the next and it just gets sweeter and sweeter every I have people from the group that just shake "how can you walk away from your heritage?" Seven generation have lived the principle. And all I can say is that I have a heritage I have a heritage that is in Christ. And that it's eternal. And no one can take it from me. It's not of this world. And I would trade my Mormon heritage any day [CATHLEEN] I'm starting to see that I can [SUSAN] I want them to know the Jesus that [CATHLEEN] I don't have to perform anymore. [MARY] You see, you don't pay for a gift. Or it's no longer a gift. [CATHLEEN] He's awesome. [MARY] Salvation is free. [CATHLEEN] And he loves me. And I love him. [MARY] My mother had come by with a friend And they were going to win me back to The And in our discussions, my youngest child And he said, after they left, "Mom, who And before I could say anything, he says, colors. But who is Joseph Smith?" And picked him up and whirled him around the and said, "Hallelujah, I have a child who