(instrumental music) Stephen Seals: It began A dream that would after sacrifice and It would take decades of airmen to be recognized that paved the way Hampton, Virginia is English speaking city in the it is also a large part of the United States Tuskegee Airmen were the to fly combat missions in the United States military It is estimated that Tuskegee airmen are still living in the United States. Hampton Roads is legendary Airmen from Their experiences have shaped and inspired They share stories from a time when hardships pushed a Hello, I'm Steven Seals. Join me as we explore about the contributions to the United States military and as they share their thoughts on the challenges they faced. A study by The Army evaluated African-Americans and physical standards The study claimed that Blacks were not fit for the ability to lead others. The findings were African-Americans military aviation programs The interest in flying stemmed from the arrival Once people saw the floating body interest Dr. Eric Sheppard, the and Technology at is the son of Tuskegee airman Sergeant James Sheppard. His father recalls seeing the Hindenburg as a child. Eric: He loved airplanes. He loved anything that He remembers seeing fly over New York Anything to do with Stephen: The terms and &quot;Tuskegee Experience&quot; to describe what the Dr. Sheppard says that the words &quot;experiment&quot; and after desegregation Eric: My dad usually they didn't really they were the Tuskegee. A lot of those names at least as far as he says. I think it was an experiment. I think they were from both sides, whether saying this is the opportunity to show that we could do this. It was an experience. Stephen: The Tuskegee the first Civilians could proper aviation exams. World War II was looming. The desire to fight to inflate among many men. The Army War College Study would not hold up for long. After pressure from and African-American &quot;Pittsburgh Courier&quot; was soon formed by This pilot training by President to appease Black voters that helped him get The airmen completed A year later a and based in Tuskegee, Alabama. The Tuskegee Institute for training because of There were several that were involved in training African-Americans to fly. Locally Hampton to Tuskegee, Alabama, complete their training. The Tuskegee have been designed to fail. For the first class of the about a dozen men pilot's exam and The testing was rigorous Eric: There was some African-Americans in to participate in the Some who were very weary said &quot;If you're going to be training &quot;I'm going to make They were given lots of exams. They were given difficult exams and sort of made to than some of the others. The expectation was obvious that many in the country felt. They just assumed that To their credit the They didn't all pass, but those who did passed Stephen: The widow Lieutenant Colonel Armelia Thomas says didn't make it into the program even though he passed Mrs. Thomas says that he and once he came the same exam a second time. After waiting for his results he was called in Armelia: When Donald that he had failed the test. He said he was so shocked because academics was He had always been He said he knew that he but they told him He said tears came He said he was embarrassed in front of the officers but he was so he knew that he really He said he saluted He went back to the door. They said that he was dismissed. He said he put his and the captain called &quot;Cadet Thomas,&quot; and He said &quot;I was just &quot;here and I made a mistake. &quot;You didn't fail the He said that he was so elated. He said that he went jumping and running and shouting and he had such but he said for a moment there he thought that Stephen: Failure was not The Airmen were in and at the helm was one of the pioneers of Davis was one of the first graduates to earn A West Point graduate in a class of 278 white cadets saw to it that the in military combat situations once they completed training. Many looked up to revered him as an elite leader. Eventually, Colonel the 332nd Fighter Group to Italy in February Eric: Benjamin Davis who could have led them. The one thing that the fact that when he went for four required discussions nobody talked to him. I think they all saw and he was the one. He wasn't always but I've always that he had to be the first. He was the only one around and his father was so they knew that he understood what it would take to get there. Stephen: Chief Master like many men was drafted and started his training Once basic training was complete he boarded a troop train and arrived in Grant: Upon arrival there were some men I'm talking about men of color. That was completely new, a new thing and most of didn't know what it was about. We thought we were going there for basic training sent to another but rather than that we completed basic to fill spaces for which was designed to Stephen: Armelia Thomas Donald was unprepared for what he would experience but his mother's wisdom Thomas, a native of had different experiences of segregation and discrimination. Armenia: Being northerners and he was trying discrimination in the south, of segregation in the south. When he first went to Tuskegee his mother told him &quot;I &quot;most of the time you're there &quot;because you don't &quot;and we don't want you He said it was a he really started talking until he saw the He said he was always because he was always when he was supposed straight forward instead Stephen: Armelia Thomas for most of her life. They didn't marry until Colonel Thomas gave 37 including World War Vietnam and even the He flew over 19 different His wife shares how in becoming a pilot. Armelia: His mother and interested in the In the beginning of in 1943 some Tuskegee came to Selfridge which is about 25 Donald's father took to see these Black pilots because that was really, really- well we didn't have any. They were still in Donald was so impressed. Up until that time he always but when he saw and how proud he decided he wanted to fly and that's when it He immediately to try and get to be but they told him to come back next year. As he was coming through he was six-one, and he was So he started as a bomber, but he flew 19 different over his career. I know the last two sea mines and the 141. He was considered Stephen: Many of different levels during a time when was supposed to apply to all. The Tusgakee Airmen that denied them and training opportunities. Sergeant Harry Quinton that had heard of the and was trying to figure out how to become a His eyesight didn't but that didn't stop him from pursing his goal of He enlisted in the was assigned to He was made a part of the 477th Bombardment Group in Augusta, Georgia. Sergeant Quinton says &quot;difference between &quot;and military service.&quot; Harry: Well, it was so to speak, because The training was segregated. The units were segregated. It wasn't much different from my civilian experience. It was like a transformation going from one into a segregated service. Of course, it was something- they still follow that policy of &quot;separate and equal,&quot; it was &quot;separate and unequal.&quot; Stephen: Despite how Sergeant Quinton knew were a part of something that for African-Americans Harry: We knew something special have done anything This was in an age people were still I mean when a plane flew over you'd run outside and look Fighter pilots, people looked upon as top, elite Black people were Most of us thought dumb, cowards and whatever, and to put us in an those things just We knew, we knew we were doing something special, yeah. Grant: Little by little, We found how to get who weren't anxious and even those who didn't We found ways to idea that we were human Stephen: Tusgakee to partake in combat right after their training scenarios. The &quot;Pittsburgh Courier&quot; when the Airmen had but were not yet participating First Lady Eleanor in getting the Airmen in World War II combat Moton Airfield in She flew with African-American Charles Chief Anderson. Upon her own convince her husband president Franklin D. Roosevelt that the pilots were Eric: Press was important. I guess back then it was significant first of all to get the word out to let them know about amongst the historically Black colleges and universities of the folks of were going to college. You had to have some in order to be a pilot. Of course, to put greater community to show that they were pilots of color and they were folks flying They were people The famous picture in the plane with Chief If that picture hadn't then nobody would have ever known what Stephen: Tusgakee Airmen that they were more than capable pilots, technicians, by overcoming prejudices by rising through a respected fighter group Grant: We knew that to see whether we could do what we were supposed to do or not. We were taught that that we did things right, otherwise we would fail and that was the when they started the program was not to prove that but to prove that we couldn't. That included not only where I was assigned, but those who were That's where the rub came that they didn't want to see They did everything they rather than encourage Stephen: Inspiration and day-to-day challenges came from unexpected places. Corporal Wilbert in high school that he has carried with him Wilbert: Teacher, Mr. &quot;You being who you are,&quot; he didn't use the word said &quot;but you got to ... &quot; Some people say don't bite off no more than you can chew. He said, &quot;But you, you &quot;than you chew and So I didn't forget that. Stephen: Gore also as a flight engineer that he lives by the idea that you treat people how Wilbert: I never met I had to like people because somebody had to like me. That's the way I looked I mean I think that's a Stephen: His attitude may in getting his first While Gore was without a college he was able to make with a sergeant Gore boldly asked Sergeant Shackleford's He had never been until he arrived in California to train as a flight engineer. Wilbert: He took [unintelligible] right My ears stopped up the propeller turning. I thought the thing was falling. I never forgot that. I covered my eyes the first time I'd been on an airplane. It was nice, it was a because I'd look the prop turning because you know, couldn't see it and over that water so that was the first time I'd ever been on an airplane. I'd work on them, I didn't fly on them. Stephen: In 1943 the left for North Colonel Benjamin Once the Airmen were their role became clear to protect bombers on The United States was which were carrying as Previously, the bombers were engaging into combat and leaving the bombers Their presence helped The fatalities were at a minimum once they took on The Tusgakee Airmen to stay with their bombers unless they were forced to take on fighter aircraft. The airmen decided the nickname &quot;Red Tails.&quot; They painted the rudder with bright red paint so that they would as protection for the bombers and they wanted to be seen Sergeant Harry Quinton was immune to attacks Harry: I always said didn't care what color you were. They didn't have black They would shoot at everybody without discrimination. Stephen: During World War II German prisoners military bases in while waiting for the It was not uncommon to walking about freely on base, able to come and It seemed to many had more freedoms than Blacks that lived in the United States. Sergeant Harry Quinton didn't let many things bother him, but one day seeing a German POW lounging freely at really irritated him. Harry: When I was Augusta, Georgia they had one day a soldiers could go to I went that one day and I saw the German prisoners of in the Post Exchange. I found out they could go I just couldn't- At first I was angry. At first I was really surprised. I couldn't believe that were given that much freedom. Then I was angry because they were getting more Of course, I never Post Exchange again. That has sort of stayed with me. I've never forgotten that. I just didn't I learned that you can't- If you stay angry than your own purpose in life. Stephen: Though felt his military was a positive one he notes that the separation was Wilbert: I was in Long That's where I The people there was pretty but [unintelligible] you get on a bus, you could In the evenings You went to one barrack, You couldn't stay Stephen: Chief Master says that being recognized so many years ago is flattering. He says that the have changed and Grant: It is quite of Americans now. We get just as much or as many good things from White people as They seem to recognize It's more like an apology. They talk about it. They say it's just too had to happen like that, but they're proud and We did what we were We did something that they Now we're getting the accolades. Stephen: Accolades that or receiving honorary Recognition during the International Tattoo. And even a congressional president George They have received for combat fighting as well. Over 1,000 were trained for World War II between 1941 and 1949. Approximately 19,000 participated in the Today an estimated 32 Tusgakee Airmen and 66 Airmen made and gave their lives in combat. The Tusgakee Airmen have of organizational support about the plight and challenges they faced in the war effort. Locally, the surviving continue to tour and churches and local organizations via speaking engagements. Each of their stories are unique and give an inside the beginnings of The Tusgakee Airmen and created a path for all who want to serve their country and live as everyone else does. Many of the Airmen say to educate today's of how far the United since the days of segregation Grant: Well, it's sort young people and that is that America is a good place and it requires the that occupy space to do the best that they can do at and if they do their be contributing to those who come after them because they have and if they follow the they will make the Harry: Well I think the young people If you don't know your history you don't know who you are. A lot of people- A lot of people today some people become successful and they think that they have- They alone are responsible but they don't standing on the who have sacrificed I mean people have died. Armelia: I think with the idea that that I want to be if I pursue it because some young oh well, I don't want but you have to work at whatever you're supposed to learn. Education is the key. I think that that's for them to walk away with that here were some to try do the best and to endure for a cause and they loved their country. Stephen: As part of honor the Tusgakee the Tidewater Chapter also educate youth and other methods. The story of the Airmen U.S. history books in The major goal of is to educate and inform ages and gender about Retired Lieutenant is the president of He says that it is to be involved in the community. Lt. Col. Spann: The fact the Experiment, their years of the experiment or are not taught American history or The fact that that's what has more or less as an organization is to make sure we stay and do a number of to the fact that is now part of the The fact that we go to schools be they elementary to middle school, high and businesses, we talk We talk about what the challenges that Stephen: Creating to making sure that Airmen gave for their Lieutenant Colonel that being involved in schools inspires younger students to seriously consider Lt. Col. Spann: Even the percentages are low, but we don't have degree that they We don't have those like we used to. Now we just need in science, technology, and make sure they're We actually have a youth program that we try to and expose the kids is part of our We have kids that we try to fly on a regular Experimental Aircraft We have a certified a retired air force and a lot of parents in exposing their kids to STEM and making sure that in a way that they're ready. That community is and they need more pilots, so this young group they have been told, that it's getting pilots in America are Stephen: Lieutenant the Tusgakee Airmen for himself and others. If the experiment had African-Americans set back further from progress. Lt. Col Spann: Had the the glass is half empty, If they had failed I to come in the air force. My family would to enjoy the lifestyle because I seriously able to aspire to be an If I wanted to fly I would Stephen: It is critical in technical careers look for young people A legacy that they to be noticed by all people. The Airmen have said that they are now receiving It's about continuing the young people and all across the nation. It was the Experiment that the Tusgakee to take for granted. The Airmen and their living their lives participating in educating all of their their message will resonate Thank you for joining us. If you would like to Tidewater Chapter of their doors are open Visit their chapter website (instrumental music)