S.B. Keshava Swami: The amazing teachings is that divinity isn't doesn't just have a very, very its personality, but divinity is divine person is actually making intimate relationship, and is character, is full of charm, is [Music] When you go on the spiritual initiations, which are like of spiritual commitment. So when you're known as a Dvija. So it of commitments or initiations in kind of refers to like an Dvija. But there's two other in Sanskrit or twice born. The name for the teeth is also teeth and then they fall out, pillow and pray that the Tooth grow again. So the teeth are other thing that's known as a chicken is also twice born, of the mother and then the just to give you a flavor of language. All right, so this is of you are familiar. Maybe some considered kind of like the the oldest books of wisdom in biggest circulated book in the Bible, and you'll be happy to Potter. So this is the Bhagavad generations. There's a beautiful Bhagavad Gita by Mahatma Gandhi. haunt me, sorry, when doubts stare me in the face and I see horizon, then I immediately open verse, and in the midst of great hope and inspiration. So for hope, for inspiration, for questions, it gives answers when confidence when we have pain, it looking for clarity, it gives make sense of things, it really book that we go back to again I was 15, and I often say this. because it was the first time in didn't understand anything, and book. So it was kind of like it like something within me just have no idea what it is, but I'm explore. So I did, and nearly 30 the Gita, and it's really gives me so many insights, and with beautiful souls like today. Would you like to give us Audience: 11 S.B. Keshava Swami: Okay, okay, chapter. Can you change that? Let's go with it. Let's, let's second. Okay, would you like to 55. Yeah, yeah, no behind you. Audience: 42 S.B. Keshava Swami: 42 Okay, hard one today. Okay, let's see right. Sometimes, like, Why did let me give you some context. long, and it's a conversation Arjuna almost represents the questions, that has confusions, existential crisis. Sometimes where we're kind of like, not going? You know, recently, I How old are you? I'm like, 43 said, What do you mean? It's a people usually have a midlife was almost having a midlife questioning who he is, what is, began to ask Krishna a bunch of success, about happiness, about so many things. And in the Arjuna kind of began to realise teacher, that Krishna is the kind of, the source of he kind of goes through these like sometimes you know someone, realise their greatness. You're like, rub shoulders with them. them. And then later on, you person, you know, like, my god, speaking with Krishna like a through Krishna's words and revealed, he began to understand in the 11th chapter, Krishna actually, Arjuna, you're right. not just your charioteer. I am everyone is actually searching called The Universal Form, speaker, does is he kind of and Arjun realises, like, wow, person. So this chapter is know how many of you watch here watch Oppenheimer? Yeah. there's that point where detonated the atom bomb for the actually launched in Hiroshima, a kind of test, I think they was in the kind of in the test the button, and the atom bomb ever. And when he saw that atom cloud, you remember that famous actually quoted a verse from the Gita that we're reading right Krishna says, time I am the so Oppenheimer had studied at sanskritist, like he learned was one of his main kind of go remembered this verse from the Gita and realised this nuclear going to destroy everything. He I've just created. I don't know but too late, it was already bomb was dropped in first time. All right, so on I told you you picked the You know? Okay, so this is speaking to Krishna, divinity, Would you like to hear the sakheti matva prasabham yad sakheti ajanata mahimanam vapi. Okay, this is the speaking to Krishna now, have rashly addressed You "O Krsna," "O Yadava," "O my friend,&quot; not knowing your whatever I may have done in dishonored you many times, the same bed or sat or ate sometimes in front of many please excuse me for all those for us today? So basically, conversation, and it's a and God. In the world today, there are opinions on God, whether God person or not, whether God is not. So the ancient scriptures God has many features. Divinity features, divinity interacts of the world knows about in a way in which divinity is with great respect. If we look then the way they approach God divinity is the supreme amazing revelation of the Vedic just a controller. Divinity formal and reverential side to actually the best friend. The himself available to have an full of color, is full of full of charisma. The famous said, I will only believe in a an interesting statement, religion and what most of of theology are is that God is a very, very strict, and God is a quite a sterile concept of God. the Vedic scriptures is that divinity, that divinity is and that one can actually very, very beautiful, intimate the Bhagavad, Gita, Arjun is of his life, he's just been very friendly way, almost like a Krishna is my friend, not that divine person. And then Krishna is the actual source of then begins to happen, as we're begins to think, then that maybe you're just like my friend, but greater, but later on, Krishna no, I actually relished, I relished your friendship, I relationship with you. And this spirituality really, really experience relationships of relationship of love that we can person. But in order for that spontaneity to exist, to some formalities of God. And this is call bhakti yoga. Yoga means to theologies in the world are ways. But bhakti yoga, which is Gita, is the process by which we is the most natural, the most satisfying. In the Vedic God has six qualities in this, aisvaryasya samagrasya jnana-vairagyayos caiva sannam means all attractive. And in attractive? Broadly speaking, it which irresistibly draw others He has incredible opulence, incredibly strong, influential. means he's beautiful. Jnana and vairagya means he's completely detached. And if we relationships and what draws us combination of one or more of or five of these qualities. So people in relationships of love they have. And it's mentioned divinity, God actually has these to connect to divinity in a the most natural thing, because everyone will naturally be whole process of bhakti yoga, of teaching us, is how to heartfelt way to God. And so which we kind of uncover and these are kind of all contained yoga. And so this opportunity is us. When I came first to the the monks, I don't know if sure. And he looked at me and he convince you that Krishna what are you trying to do? Then convince you that Krishna introduce you to a process and a perceive the presence of life. He said, we're not we're not teaching you simply, traditional or a sectarian we're trying to share with you spiritual science is a process their heart and actually try to relationship and connection with bhakti yoga. And so the whole Gita is aimed at this. And so basically helps us to understand see Divinity has basically two which they see divinity. One is and kind of regulated way, and through a much more heartfelt, And while both of these are seeks is to have a genuine most natural way, and that is kind of practices and spiritual were some thoughts, just to kind lofty verse, down to something don't know if there's anything triggers any thoughts or any would like to know more about. would like to ask so far, Audience: You were saying other referential, and the other one intimate? Would you say that we process to get to the relationship? We start first all of a sudden start talking to S.B. Keshava Swami: Yeah So how that journey of kind of natural and heartfelt way. You meet someone for the first time, general questions first. If thing you ask is, like, how was it's usually a question about the is you just kind of form a basis a person. Like, who are you? did you come from? Like, what do Like, there's a sense in which relationship, then the first get our bearings. Like, where is from? What are they all about? when we do that, then then we conversation with someone, and to have the trust and kind of more deeper things about their as we do that in the our relationship with divinity, trajectory that what we do when understanding, like, is there a world? We begin to try to just truths about that divinity, how this world. And then what as we grasp those aspects, then deeper and deeper understandings a kind of a progression that we happens is that in the enter, you know, to kind of gets so intense, it gets so forget about all the formal they just enter into a more it's interesting. They are what because they connect with where they don't see divinity as connect. Sometimes I say there in this world, like one type of someone who just doesn't believe never really thought about it. philosophical atheist, someone theory, life on chemicals, God equation, so they try to of the equation. Philosophical emotional atheists, people who necessarily because it because maybe something bad because they had a bad therefore emotionally, to accept for them. So emotional atheists, of atheist is a psychological say they believe in God, but with the world and others, divinity and ignoring people's say there are transcendental realm who realise, who reach a realisation, in which they almost overlook the divine just connect in a very, very horizon of atheists like that. Yes. Hare Krishna, well, this is them out on Instagram, they're amazing. Audience: I found it interesting that then we randomly picked a verse interesting. My question is we as devotees trying to get forgive ourselves for the path, because this world is has so many things that screw us up kind of like, oh, like, does out with me if I'm making all all these things. S.B. Keshava Swami: Thank you so question. Yeah. So we make say to err is human and ourselves a hard time. We're mistakes, and we just think, divinity ever look at me in the deprecate ourselves sometimes. mistakes? From my little, small helps it makes it easier to genuinely learn something from make a mistake and we get so can't believe I made that now? What am I going to do now, spend some energy saying, like, that? And how am I going to how that? Then, even in that satisfaction that comes because because I moved on, I'm better in digesting and accepting our kind of draw us into a very kind mentality is number one we just And when we genuinely learn from we don't feel as bad about them worth it, right? So I guess the second thing that helps us always need good people around see the picture when you're why relationships is so around you who can actually give journey and how what you may certain way, could actually be perspective or angle. And so in really, helped as well to, They say one of the greatest if someone in your life who has in yourself. And I felt like found people like that, and it level. So I would say that's like as we encounter mistakes in third thing is to reflect on our recover from mistakes. They say, like, say, for example, you get have a scar. Then when you look do is one of two things, either very painful time in your life, I had a very painful time in my the tale, and I lived through you can see it in two different that, you know, oh, my god, life you that I'm strong. I survived mistake. Kind of tell you that, weak, I get distracted, I get mistake can tell you that, you here, and I'm still on the resilience, I have staying are some things that help us mistakes and and grow from those Thank you. Nice question. Anyone like to ask, either on this on your spiritual journey, Audience: I like what you said about seeing God in every moment of your life, can you speak on seeing you receive terrible news, or when life can be really, really hard. S.B. Keshava Swami: Yeah. So try to understand divine we see that there's a benevolent who is there and who's attentive course, this is one of the People ask the question, why do people? Which really means, why Because I'm a good person, and us it causes us to doubt God. So something bad happens in your imagine this is the bad in your responses that can help you to to look at the good around the life is something bad happens, telescopic vision on that one all the other all the other Gandhi once said, I complained until I met someone who never try to do is we try to look at response, number one. The second at the good which could be Oftentimes, when we look at our see that the most challenging, difficult times were the times grow out of adversity. The actually deepen our wisdom, you awake and gratitude, so many difficulties that we go through. try to do is not judge try to understand what's the this lead to? How could this second thing we do is we try to from the bad. And the third going through a bad situation, can look up, or we can look ourselves, what is the good that counteract the bad. Every time opportunity for us to within our character which will situation. There's the famous looking up at God and saying, God's looking down at the person situation so you change every situation is kind of ourselves. You know, like, if lifting a dumbbell, there's two you can take the weight off, but the weight off, the only way to your muscles. And so we can't we can increase our inner resistance is the only way you say, I'm gonna now, I'm gonna do no resistance here. When there's when you develop character. And good around the bad. Number two, from the bad. And number three, being called to develop which that way, we can say not is good, but something good can happens in life, and when we begin to see, wow, divinity is kind of experiment where we say, empty. Now you can't see but it half empty? So they say, the pessimists say half empty. But perspective is that it's and half with air. And so like of mentality of life where I'm I'm going to be optimistic, but Maybe the bad is also part of learning, part of living, and so say, yeah, it's half full. No, the other bit that you feel is contributing in a very powerful vision. Anyway, easier said than front of a mic, and then you have to live it. And that's why like, in one sense, when we come not always hear groundbreaking know that one I saw on an Thank you for reminding me. The we live with this vision? How interact with the world, genuinely imbibe this conscious a spiritualist, more than actually changes. So that's why that one day it'll go in, some thoughts. Audience: Everything good everything bad, bad karma? S.B. Keshava Swami: Is everything bad, bad karma? Yes, Another way of seeing is that of seeing is that all karma is perspectives could be true from example, if I say to you, who son. It's not a trick question, the until the son was born, he man. So first the son comes, and Agree? Agree. Wrong. The Father simultaneously. So here we could The father comes before the Son the Father correct. The son and time, correct, and they're all and there's no issue, correct. there is such a good thing as receive there's four broad ways You can now do a karmic there's four broad ways in which karma. Janma, they were born in received love and all the opulence, comfort just comes to money without trying. Those like intelligence and cognitive has these things, they're good These are good karma. Everyone's can say it's good karma, and of all of those things. So there and bad karma. In another sense, karma, because everything can be consciousness, even the bad everything's good karma, even sense, you could say get all this good stuff, and it. They get all this money, and actually can imprison you and it's, it's like that, you know, whole kind of thrust of karma, because karma is other, whether it's good or bad. Krishna tells Arjuna in the into a life where you actually spirituality. Is that okay? Thank you. Yeah. Audience: I was wondering if you experience of how your character over the the years of practising this. S.B. Keshava Swami: Yeah, thank was billed as the monks really quickly tell you the four share with you. I'll just do it mistakes that we make in life happened. And you're like, Oh are other mistakes in life which like, but you weren't really point it just dawned on you, be doing this. So the four to share with all of you today helpless means hopeless. Number improvement. Number three, and number four, disconnect to of four broad mistakes I felt I each one. The first one helpless of my life, I thought I could do need the help of others. I got knowledge I know what I need to with it. And so what I did in a is I walked the spiritual path really take any coaching or any guidance from more mature life, I realised this is a made. I think some of it was control. Some of it was maybe bother someone else with my own just fear, like I don't want to tell me to do something I don't part of my life, I never took I realised that that is actually empowering people in our lives, who kind of help you to dream just go further. That kind of so I felt this was a big mistake journey, which stunted my you don't get hope, and without progress. So that's the first blocks improvement. What I observing myself is that I personality on other people. I certain aptitudes, I had a almost was going intuitively everyone to be the same, and character. And not seeing them own abilities, who have their own way of approaching things. life, I became very judgmental that judgmental attitude, I improved, and our relationship time, I began number one, judgments on people, unless I two, when there was a sense of a someone's personality, to write really try to understand them, with them. And number three, to kind of see that I can also helping them to be better. just place them at a certain But actually, according to ability to also contribute and German writer says, treat a remain as they are, but treat and they'll become what they can the opportunity to be an active lives. So I feel like that was blocks improvement. A third one I feel like one of my strengths consistent most of the time. I'm tomorrow after saying that, but do the same thing, like every time, eat the same food, like, love it. I love consistency. But that consistency without your full potential. And what I kind of imprisoning my way done things, and I wasn't being new, better, unknown dangerous phrase in the English this way, so to kind of break be creative and explore so I mistake that I didn't embrace have. And the final one is like in my for a large portion busy. And while that was like I missed out a lot because disconnect. At one point, I disconnect for one month. Every and every day disconnect for one take time away, I disconnect explore my inner world, I read, kind of understand and realign aspirations. Then when I come just so much more effective, and happy and joyful. And so after a long time I wasn't that was a big mistake, because better things in the world if I it's like an a bowman, when if want to shoot the target movement is you go away. You go when you go away from the can aim, and then you can that was another mistake. I felt time. So those are four things to develop my character. Number adjusting the way I see people Number three, being creative and and go into new environments. time away, disconnecting from this world and just going helped me. Is that okay? Thank maybe we should call it here, I late, right? Okay, sure, yeah, so, thank you Really appreciate it. [Applause]