In our Law and Justice Lead. Another shocking turn in the case of Sean Diddy Combs. Prosecutors, as you know, say that the music mogul, committed some unspeakable acts. and now they're saying that he's engaging in witness tampering from behind bars. How do they know that? Well, through evidence that did his attorneys say the feds should never have been able to obtain, they are accusing federal prosecutors of what they call outrageous misconduct. Personal notes notes that allegedly contain attorney client defense strategies were seized from Diddy's New York jail cell. Combs legal team calls that search a violation of his constitutional rights, and they're demanding an evidentiary hearing. Not so fast, though. Prosecutors defend the seizure. They say the notes were obtained during a nationwide pre-planned sweep of multiple prison facilities. They claim the notes were reviewed by a filter team, someone not involved in the case, to remove privileged materials before they were turned over to prosecutors. Now, prosecutors are arguing the notes that they got contain evidence that Diddy may have tried to influence witnesses alleging that he paid a witness after making a public statement that his team strongly denies these allegations. This development comes as Diddy, who has pleaded not guilty to sex trafficking, racketeering and related charges, is set to appear in court Friday. This would be his third attempt to be released on bond. The case is now raising serious questions about due process and pretrial detainee rights. To clear up some of these questions for us. Joey Jackson, criminal defense attorney and CNN legal analyst. Joey, just to remind everybody, you know, allegations are not, is not a conviction. and Diddy is presumed innocent until proven guilty. But the big question here is, is it legal for the prosecutors to seize personal notes from a pretrial detainee, even if a filter team has gone through them and taken out anything privileged? And also explain what a filter team is first, if you could. Yeah. So, Jake, this discussion, no matter whether you love Diddy, don't like him. Think he's guilty, think he's not guilty. That's not the issue. The issue is the propriety of the conduct of the government as alleged. Everyone is entitled to a fair trial. Now, the first question comes well, should the government have been searching his cell? Do they have these searches in jails? Is that appropriate? I think the general answer is yes. They're going to have searches of various detainee cells for safety reasons and other reasons. So as a result of that, expect and anticipate that your cell will be searched. The next question becomes, well, if there's information with respect to that search that deals with your case. That is attorney work product, right? Not attorney work product, but certainly attorney client. When you go when you're visiting a client in a jail, you have discussions about your case, about witnesses, about strategy, about issues. You may take notes or do anything you like, either with your attorneys or when you go back. Now, if the government has gotten that specific information, the answer becomes, well, why and how? That leads me to the question about a filter team. If you get information and it could be attorney client privilege, right, you should have the right to speak to your attorney about everything and anything, but it should be filtered. There are government team, in fact, the Department of Justice created a team in 2020 to do just this filter information so that that team is not part of the case, not part of the prosecution. You look for attorney client privilege information. You passed out that you give it to prosecutors. What was the process followed? What was the protocol followed? Was it followed properly or appropriately? We don't know. That's why a hearing is necessary. That should never get into the hands of prosecutors. It's unfair. It's inappropriate, shouldn't happen. And that raises serious questions. That's what a filter team did. Did they abdicate their responsibility? We'll see it. Hearing this all coming on the heels, of course, of a recent court filing where prosecutors were citing jail phone records. They claim that. Did he use the phone accounts of at least eight inmates to evade monitoring and to make calls that they allege are also witness tampering? How does this defense team respond to that as they're trying to get data released on bond? Listen, that's a question of fact. And either the government has the goods on that and he was attempting to do it or not. That's an allegation. That's something else that could be addressed at a hearing or not addressed. But I think the main and core question is if you have materials that's prepared with your defense lawyers, how do prosecutors get that? Should prosecutors have gotten that? Should the defense team have been given notice to object to that prior to it being given to prosecutors? And so, again, no matter what you believe in as guilt, we have to have a process where people believe, whether people believe in their government and the government is not going to overreach. And I think there's a critical question here that will be determined not by me, but at a hearing as to whether or not those protocols were followed, whether the search team or filter team followed the appropriate steps and passed out the information that they should have. All right, Joe Jackson, thanks so much. Appreciate it.