Sports history is made by legendary athletes. Every moment becomes rare, sometimes even impossible. Travel back in time with WoW TV to witness the most incredible feats in sports that few can achieve. A hill higher than the standard competition was the quickest way for Kobayashi to set a world record jump. The Florida Panthers were playing with a good advantage, and winger Mike Hoffman had a chance to score from midfield. But then, the light suddenly went out. After lifting the referee up to celebrate his team's win, the player got a red card for freaking the referee out. The Swedish racer left his competitors in the dust with an incredible drift. Winning was as tough for him as putting on a medal. Do you ever think that tennis is a bit dull? Well, the Indian Wells Open proved it can be way more exciting. Now let's welcome the Raccoon player onto the field. However, this player was asked to leave because he wasn't wearing a team jersey or shoes. Unwilling to leave, he kept running around, making the security team chase him everywhere. In the end, they had to use a big bucket to temporarily trap him until the game ended. This moment makes me wonder whether to praise his skill or his luck. Extreme sports always thrill us with the impossible, though it's clear they've trained for a long time to achieve these rare moments. Stay safe while watching races, because luck like this doesn't come around often. A scorpion masterpiece from the goalkeeper in the dying minutes is coming your way next. The BWF World Finals were going on between Busanan and Jamin. Oh my god, let's watch it again! So far, this is the most perfect jump of the gymnastics qualifiers. While many are still struggling to balance, he's leveled up. Yep, Mitchie Brusco nailed the first ever 12 .60 in skateboarding history. Nice shot! This terrain makes it really hard to control the bowling ball's direction. Does this result deserve a like? This throw should have secured a win for his team. But this happened. No freaking chance. I'm not a skater, and I've never seen footage like this before. An image that reminds many of throwing paper planes in school was captured impressively by the Red Bull Skydive team. Keeping a cool head during a competition is crucial. It's okay, this was just a minor slip -up. The Korean athlete celebrated too early and lost the gold medal by just 0.01 seconds. This was probably their biggest regret. Even though the goal was allowed, I don't think it really embodied the spirit of sportsmanship. A taekwondo athlete broke 111 bricks in 35 seconds. The odds of the puck going in were one in a million, but somehow, a fan easily nailed the challenge. I wonder how much Apple paid Rodolfo for that ad. Did this fighter really kneel down to beg for mercy as soon as the match started? Nope, the best part was just getting started. An Australian rider surfed massive waves in Tahiti on his motorcycle. This crazy feat took two years to perfect. Some athletes spend their entire lives striving for a championship. Yet in 2023, this is the second time Judd O'Learton has reached the pinnacle of success. After losing his shoe just 500 meters into the race, the Kenyan runner didn't get discouraged and went on to finish the remaining 2 kilometers. I appreciate the dog's calmness and how the racers handled the situation. At 800 feet up the Strat Tower, will In the last second, Slattery scored that golden goal. No words could describe the sheer joy of the girls at that moment. Is there a goalie brave enough to take on this challenge? For a volleyball genius, this is so easy that he could do it even with his eyes closed. With the weight she lifted, Tamara Walcott has officially entered the Guinness World Records as the world's strongest woman. In soccer, anything can happen. Actually, the orange-shirted tennis player was a magician. A special trick helped him score that point. Hey, it's fine. He's still too young to... STRIKE! Front row seats ain't always the best choice. Watch out for those surprise hockey pucks. Mother Nature helped him cut off his opponent's tail. The opposing team's fans showed a lack of respect. But he showed them that he's a good goalkeeper. Subscribe to WowTV to witness more legendary moments like this. Just where I was aiming. And that's it for today's video. Which performance impressed you?