My name is Vladimir Pereverzin. I was sentenced to 11 for the crime I never commit. This is how crime works. Russian prison system is just instrument to manipulate people. Human rights and the living condition, just unbearable. This is nonsense that cannot Like in Navalny's case, person and nobody knows where he is. I was arrested 2004. I was placed under surveillance, and I was followed by a secret agent. They make me a phone and asked me to come to for 20 minutes. So I was taken to some police department. It was night interrogation I did not understand and didn't realize what for several months. I left Yukos Oil Company two years before my arrest. Yukos Oil Company was one of the biggest very well organized. Khodorkovsky was one of the and general manager of this company. It was a politically motivated that Russian government The goal of this process was just taking the company from the owner. They're accusing me of stealing crude oil. I did not realize the sense of this accusation because every single gram of oil and every single cent was on the balance of the company. I wasn't a high-profile employee of Yukos. I didn't have any shares. I didn't believe that I was arrested. I made a phone call to my wife. She thought that we were pranking her. I was transferred from Butyrka Matrosskaya Tishina, it's a It consists of several barracks, where I was kept the Was overcrowded with terrible conditions. There was just 10 iron bunks and about 25 prisoners. So I didn't sleep for several days. One moment I felt something crawling on me and tickling. I just turned out my I'd never seen them before, but I was sure it was lice. Dozens, dozens. You cannot understand or where you are. So, just like a dream, a bad dream. I was transferred to a more-security cell. I was placed together and gang leaders. You are being watched by I was sure that every 10 or 15 minutes the jailers looked through special glazok, peephole. I spent in Moscow jails 2 1/2 years. Everybody always moved. So jailers just called you, you'd pick up your stuff, and It's some kind of pressure to force me to confess to Every court hearing, special I was sure that I would be released. My innocence was so obvious for everybody. I was sentenced for stealing 13 billion US dollars and for stealing all crude oil produced by one of the largest I do understand this sounds ridiculous, just like nonsense. But for this nonsense, I was sentenced to 11 years' imprisonment. The first colony I was transferred was a strict colony in small village, Melekhovo. We was transferred to Vladimir Prison, and the next day we were Transferring from prison to colony is the most dangerous because the prisoners disappeared, and nobody except jailers knows where the prisoners is. My transferring took three or four days. Ordinary train takes But in our case, 24 hours because we were placed in Stolypin wagons. Originally, this carriage is for four person, but we were about 10 or 15 person in this carriage with our stuff. They stop eating and stop drinking because the jailers will not It's common practice I was beaten by rubber The previous group of prisoners I was sent to a strict penal colony, No. 6. Strict regime means that only prisoners who were could be sent to this colony, and who were sentenced not the first time. There is a special dress code, and the prison gave you shoes you should wear all year Jacket doesn't make you warm. Everything was made to make prisoners feel not comfortable. When a group of prisoners they were placed to quarantine, separate barrack where the prisoners are being investigated by jailers. And according to the laws, they're allowed to be kept 10 days, but the jailers have ways to keep them for as much as they want. It was the worst condition in this camp. You can imagine. There is big room, let's say 30 two-story iron beds close to each other. You have to sleep It was not just toilet, it It's called parasha. You can go to shower once a week. There is one shower from the cell. Six or five prisoners should manage to wash themselves for 15 minutes, wash themselves and their clothes. Most of prisoners, not most, all of them, are dreaming to be moved to another building. I was the only prisoner who spent so much time in this barrack. In three months, I was for most-dangerous criminals. Originally, there is two types of camps in Russia, red and black. Red colony, completely managed by jailers. There is strict regime, no telephones, no drugs, no alcohol. But in black colony, the law is established by criminal code. The thieves' code means just like a law for all prisoners. Criminal code or thieves' code forbids violence between criminals. So if you beat someone, you would be punished by prisoners. In a black colony, prisoners should follow this code. In a black colony, there always, someone in charge reported to criminal gangs outside. So, there is a special criminal tattoo, some kind of label that someone belonged to highest criminality There is thief stars tattoo in the shoulder and the knees. There is a chapter in my book about untouchable. It's a group of prisoners ordinary prisoners cannot touch, cannot shake hands, cannot sit where they're sitting. They used separate dishes, spoons, tables, and they did work like cleaning toilet. They sent them to this group for terrible crime among prisoners. Melekhovo, the first colony, they have several production areas. They produce uniforms for jailers, shoes for jailers, and bricks. I was keen to learn myself sewing. Then I worked as a person packing hats. I was admitted to the group of people I woke up at 5 o'clock, and we did some physical exercise. According to the regime, everyone should go and And then we went to the and then we go to the production area where we did these bricks. And it was real slavery, unloading trucks with cement sacks. Then we bring the sacks to make cement. We mixed and then we make some bricks. There was some special ingredients which makes this cement more strong. There was some poison. Definitely, some of this dust comes to our lungs. But we didn't have any choice. But I'm still alive and can talk to you, so. The administration and jailers are profiting from this production because they use it for Generally, I got for this about $20 or $30 per month. But I worked about 10 hours, so it was unbelievably hard work. Gulag, it's a prison camp system which existed former Soviet Union, and a lot of people were innocent and sentenced to imprisonment. Famous writers wrote books about this system, like Solzhenitsyn, Shalamov, Common practice in gulag system, a lot of people died from hunger. The keystone of the gulag and the modern prison system in Russia, prisoner is not a human. Most important feature of gulag system, that innocent people were imprisoned. When you are imprisoned, you realize that the jailers can do whatever they want. It's usual and common and force them to confess to crimes they didn't commit. They knew exactly if I saw someone being beaten by jailers, I would make a complaint So that is why they keep eyes on me and never did it just when I was near. I was punished. One jailer found some kind of knife. Not really a knife. You know, when you buy you have to have something to cut. And I was immediately placed to shizo. Shizo, it's for punishment. Small cells, iron bed fixed to the wall. There is some small table and small iron bench fixed to the floor, so narrow that you cannot sit comfortable. And I'm sure that the width of this bench was calculated by someone in the jailer's institute system just to make person not comfortable to sit but not fall down. I hear some strange noise, and I saw rats. And they're coming from where? They're coming from the hole for toilet. People must put something to close this hole in the floor to prevent rats coming out. When you come to this place, there was a special suit. On your back, they placed big letters, big white letters, &quot;SHIZO.&quot; And there is a special group of jailers who is responsible for guarding To try to escape from prisons, I know one guy personally who was trying to escape from the colony, from Melekhovo. And this guy was sentenced 24 years for murder and for robbery. During night, he managed to escape. He was catched by jailers quickly, but he was free maybe 15 minutes. I saw him from the distance. He was beaten, placed in the shizo. They didn't make him additional years for escape attempt. They keep him silenced Jailers can recognize you as Like in Navalny case, they gave him a suit smaller in several size. He was recognized as a regime violator for just unbutton. But if you have small prison jacket, you cannot do it another way. Who is responsible for this violation? This violation let other jailers put him in the shizo. It's completely their responsibility. They pressed him every minute. Russian prison have much less rights. You cannot sue the jailers. Extremely rare cases where you can initiate a trial against jailers because in Russia, they have much more instrument to influence on prisoners. US is more a free society, much more than Russia. When I come to another colony with officially more easy regime, Vladimir, its colony is a general regime. Toughest day during my imprisonment, they make me a violator of regime. I didn't agree, and I sent a complaint to the court. I was placed in a more isolated barrack, and they tried to press me. I started writing complaints for administration colony. And when I sent my complaints, the jailers stopped allowing And the other prisoners &quot;You place own interest So because of you, most of the prisoners from our barracks suffered.&quot; So what should I do? There is a way to go to another colony or another barrack. So I knew that the only way, I just had intention to just injure myself and go to the hospital. Maybe five or four other prisoners jumped on me, and there was some kind of a little fight between us. And, but anyway, I managed to cut myself, not as severe as I planned. But I remember this moment very well. I cried, &quot;Freedom to political prisoners!&quot; Thanks to this accident, I was free because the jailers were They knew that you can do something serious. And then they sent me to Pokrov. When I came to this colony, the deputy came to me and told me, &quot;Look, how are you going to stay with us? Are you going to complain? He's scared of me, and he didn't want to have problems with injured and with scandal with lawyers and et cetera. So we made some kind of agreement. I stopped complaining, and he didn't press on me. My sentence was reduced. I didn't believe that I could be released. My terms come to the end suddenly for me. Every prisoners are My son, my wife, my friends were supposed to come by 10 o'clock to the colony, and I was going to make to other prisoners. It's a criminal tradition. So I bought some tea, It's a real celebration. But I was woken up before general wake up. They gave me my belongings. I was released about 6 o'clock before other prisoners wake up because they're scared. They're scared of press conference. When you're released, they give you some certificate of release, some money from your personal account. I received everything, every money, all documents, and I was really scared. There is one car standing near the exit from the colony and some unknown people standing. From my previous experience, I knew they can do whatever they want. They can kill me, and nobody will find my body. They drive me to Vladimir bus station. I get out of the car. I thought, &quot;What should I do?&quot; But I have some money from And I went to the cafe in the bus station, bought ice cream, ice cream and coffee. My relatives were thinking about 10 o'clock. They were on the way from And I took one taxi driver and asked him to make a I was surprised to remember number because it was not so easy. And I make a phone call, asked them that I'm on the way. It was like a dream. We drink Champagne. We burned my belongings, my suit. It's tradition. And we came to home. So I was lucky. And then I was just, you know, enjoying just simple things. I was sitting on the chair, laying on the sofa. I enjoy every moment in freedom. Before prison, I didn't pay any attention to just wearing comfortable shoes, for example. And you can stay on a hot shower as long as you want. Some small things. I don't feel angry. I want to be apologized. I don't want any revenge, but I want official acquisition. Number of political prisoners increased tremendously. I was released in 2012, and I was almost the only one. But now a lot of people are sentenced for nothing. Every political prisoner is in danger. Vladimir Kara-Murza, he's in danger. It's terrible things, what happened to Alexei Navalny. He was murdered by jailers. The first colony Navalny Then he was transferred to Melekhovo, and then he was transferred to Kharp, where he was murdered. I was in shock, but I wasn't surprised. Vladimir Putin is trying to Navalny was isolated from other prisoners, and the jailers keep eyes on him 24 hours. Every jailer had video register, and definitely something happened. But authorities trying to hide. Where are all these records? Why don't publish these records? It's terrible when so obvious innocent people are in prison. It's terrible that we're I would prefer my book wouldn't be topical at the moment because my personal story is nothing to compare to another's stories. My book is called &quot;The Prisoner.&quot; This is my personal experience. I would like to share with everybody to understand whom they're dealing with. It's a story of personal, ordinary men like me. So it happens to anyone in Russia.