Ok, I wanna try something right now. Here's what Bowser sounded like in 1996. *growling noises* He sounds like some kind Then, here's what he sounded like in 2002. &quot;Mario!? How dare you disturb my family vacation?&quot; All of a sudden he's speaking full English And then, here's what he sounds like now. *growling noises* He's back to growling and That's right, out of any Nintendo character, most. But why is that? Well, I started looking into things behind here. So I wanna take you on the journey that I question: Why has Bowser's voice changed so In the beginning, Bowser wasn't voiced by Before I explain that, I first want to clarify or the old Mario anime either. No, I'm talking about big, main series Mario And for Bowser, his voice first appeared in I actually made a whole video about this a Unlike Mario and Peach, Nintendo didn't the role of Bowser. So, they turned to "sound effect libraries". These are essentially huge collections of just about every video game, cartoon and movie. A classic example would be a "boing" sound It would be silly to record a new "boing" you get it from a sound effect library. But these libraries don't just have goofy No, they've recorded just about any sound So, when Nintendo started developing Mario sound effects to make up Bowser's voice. Looking at the character, he seemed like some to use animal sounds. Bowser's roar, for instance, is a sound LION, CAT 01. Here's the original sound effect. And then, here's the pitched up version Another good example is the noise that Bowser It's actually a sound effect called ANIMAL, According to the description, it's a mixture Lovely! Then, of course, there's Bowser's evil This one is really interesting, because it's It's actually a very slowed down version LAUGH: MALE. Here's how it sounds at normal speed. Now, you might notice that voice sounds kinda And that's because it was recorded in the would eventually provide Mario with his iconic That's right, before he was Mario, Charles Oh, and interestingly, the sound is also used So, that's where Bowser's original voice It was all stock sound effects. And these sound effects were re-used again Let me show you what I mean. Here's Mario Kart 64. And then, here's Mario Tennis. Lastly, here's Mario Golf. All of these games use the exact sound effect Certainly efficient. But then, in 2002, everything changed. Nintendo were developing a game called Super 64. And the developers were keen to make this The director said, "You may say that this Wow, that's certainly bold. So to tell a more dramatic and complex story, in full sentences, Bowser included. And frankly, the current animal noises they So, they started holding auditions across role of Bowser. One guy who showed up to these auditions was He was originally a radio host in the 1980s, into voice acting instead. And one fateful day in 2002, he was called He read lines for 3 different characters, Now, like Peach's voice actress, Scott Burns in his life. In fact, he didn't recognise who Bowser He was just shown this pixelated image of voice. But he couldn't scare children - he was told So Scott Burns started to think. And that's when he came up with an idea. What if he based his voice on Santa Claus? I mean, no-one's scared of Santa, right! Yeah, that's right, Bowser's voice was based So, Scott combined a villain voice, with a And, it worked, he got the role! Now, of course, Scott was pleased. But remember, he didn't even who Bowser However, there was someone else who DID know. "I remember going home and my son who was said hey look, "I got this role", and He knew bowser, and he just couldn't believe Before long had passed, Super Mario Sunshine voice of Bowser. Again, keep in mind that Bowser was speaking "Jr., I've got something...difficult...to "That's my boy! Well put son! The royal Koopa line is as strong as ever! But for now... let's just rest awhile." So, this was definitely a big change for the fans was mixed, shall we say. Having Bowser speak full lines of English to. One review from the time described the game work to be found on the GameCube.&quot; Ouch. So, Nintendo decided to go for a compromise. Scott Burns remained as the voice of Bowser - BUT, the character would no longer speak He was back to growling and grunting. You can hear that for instance in Mario Kart: There is, however, one videogame series that To this very day, every single Smash Bros instead of the human voice clips used for Take a listen. So, why is this? Well, it's hard to pin down to a specific sources, this decision comes straight from Masahiro Sakurai. Why he prefers to use the retro style animal is impossible to say for sure, but it's Donkey Kong, uses realistic gorilla noises, and King K. Rule uses crocodile grunts. Anyway, back to Bowser's voice. By now, Scott Burns was the resident voice games. However, fate would soon play a cruel trick Scott was a member of the Screen Actors Guild, And this union has a list of which companies If a film studio, or game developer isn't One day, Scott Burns got a letter from the that you have worked for a non-signature". That's right, Nintendo weren't on the allowed to work for them! And so, the union gave him two options. Leave the union forever, and never come back, Scott chose the latter. ...Which left Nintendo scrambling for a new You see, Nintendo had a new game coming out and they needed someone to play Bowser ASAP! With little time to spare, they found a temporary Newsome. Here's a taster of his take on the role. While that was going on, Nintendo were busy to take on Bowser's role. And once more they held auditions across America And one of the actors who showed up was a Now, Kenny's path into voice acting is a One day in 2001, he decided to become a voice and kind of expected job offers to start rolling They did not. In fact, the very first job that came his Doo phone message. "Hey Scoob, answer the phone man! You know, and then I'd have to do Scooby Doo, HEE HEE!" Obviously, 8 dollars is not enough money to suburban propane. One day he was delivering a lady some propane, Doo answering machine thing. And that's when the ball started rolling. The woman, it turned out, worked at a local start sending him details about any future Which included Nintendo's audition for the So, Kenny was sent some lines and some audio from Super Mario Sunshine! "Jr., I've got something...difficult...to So, he assumed that what Nintendo wanted is He did his best impression of Scott Burns, Kenny James had never had a proper voice acting that he would get the job. But, it was worth a shot! 2 weeks later, he got a response that shocked He got the role! He was officially the new voice of Bowser! When he entered the recording studio to record And that's where he found out something He was basically never ever gonna speak in "I've said 4 words in 15 years, in English. Showtime &quot;SHOWTIME&quot; - that one. Mario, Peach and Nintendo. Those are the four words I've said in English, You can hear a sample of some of this Bowserese Mario Kart Wii. Ok so one last thing before we move on. There's actually a weird date discrepancy up at all. Kenny James first started voicing Bowser in But Scott Burns only left the role in 2007. That doesn't make sense! Well, it seems as though Kenny James was originally Burns was busy in 2005. And then in 2007 after the union dispute, time. If you listen to the voice clips from the hear a mixture of Kenny James and Scott Burns. But nowadays, it's been 16 years since Kenny If you pick up any game from the decade or you're hearing *Bowser laugh* were recorded Which is great! This is of course, just my opinion, but I he's ever sounded. I mean, just listen to this roar! *roar* But what happened to all of the old Bowser Well, Scott Burns is doing just fine for himself! He is a prolific voice actor, whose voice if you didn't know it. Plus, those union issues sorted themselves final appearance as Bowser, in the game Super Since then, he's voiced the announcer in Eric Newsome who took over Bowser's voice actor with Nintendo. In fact, he is the permanent voice of Meta Next time you're playing, keep an ear out Masahiro Sakurai, the director of the Smash his games instead of the many many human recordings up to him. And lastly, Kenny James continues to voice I hope I will continue hearing his voice for All of this is to say, Bowser's voice has from animal noises to full English sentences to hearing nowadays. Whether you prefer him as a fearsome beast, Also, Princess Peach is another character over time, so if you want to hear just why out - it's on screen right now. Plus, if you're not subscribed to the channel, So you should totally subscribe! If you want - it's up to you. (I don't wanna be too pushy...) See you next time, bye!