- Hey guys, it's been a while. I don't work at Donut anymore and I haven't for a while I but now I am. Most of you have probably but it is official from the mouth of me. I don't work at Donut Media anymore and I started a new channel. This one, it's called Welcome to Speeed. I'm gonna tell you guys what I'm gonna do next, what I am very excited and very nervous to be honest about the next but luckily I'm not doing it alone. One, I've got you guys the best and two, the real OGs have but you might not recognize his face. The former Chief Creative of Donut, my best friend and creative soulmate, Jesse Wood, is behind the camera right now. We're doing it together, but before we get into the future, I think it would only be appropriate I need to call out how special the last nine years have been. Working for Donut and on Donut has been the and by far like not even close, the coolest thing that I've ever done. I got to meet and in a an amazing group of extremely and genuinely good people. I am so grateful for that. I'm grateful for them and I mean, it goes without what it is without you guys, and my life would not be what I mean, guys, straight up and now it's pretty sweet. So from the bottom of my for allowing me to do this. Donut has gone through a lot of phases, countless milestones, a bunch of people and faces since it started in 2015, and I want to take some time and highlight some of that shaped donut and really my life. So something of you I thought it'd be fun. this is everything you need to know. Get up to speed on Donut. - This Media at this point. Donut was a small production. They were like three months old. They were mostly making cool stunt videos for Formula D drivers. I was a huge fan of Ryan Turk He also drove in this and Tony Angelo called Blood Masters. Coolest shit ever. I was in love with it and when I heard that the guys who put that together were involved in I was super excited to meet with Donut, was started at the end of 2015 Nick Moer and Matt Levin. Ben did a bunch of stuff, for the first iPod commercial created the titles for Zombieland, the Visuals for Beyonce's Lemonade Tour. Oh yeah, and he directed Nick was his production and knows everybody and loves to introduce them to each other. He's the one who found me and the guy who sent that Matt Levin worked at Awesomeness and would become Donut, CEO, and influential professional relationships that I've ever had. I am grateful for all these guys. Back then I was a comedian of success. Phil, what are you guys doing? Is that like a store or I did a lot of improv, I was in some movies and some TV shows. I also wrote for some, and that entire time I It was like this and this When I got that email from Donut though, I was in my sister's to figure out how those things of normal job. 'cause after years of struggling and feeling like success I'd all been given up on the for a living was in the cards for me. So when I got that email and the idea of combining that I ever cared about cars and being funny was potentially as a sign from God and I flew back on Spirit and I'm glad I did. Not even in hindsight, I As soon as I walked into the Avenue and met with the guys I was, it felt special in a and most importantly, it These guys liked what I They had tattoos, cool and they were actually They all hung out all the time. It was literally the coolest imagined, and they wanted Within a few months, I quit doing comedy shows and went full time with Somebody order a race car? Yeah, me. Initially, I had no I was burnt out on performing. We mostly made stunt videos and experimental one-off stuff, to do on camera anyway, I was enamored with Ben and I wanted to learn as much from him and the other guys as possible. Ben was Rich and Ben directed commercials, so I figured I could eventually learn how to direct commercials My new job at Donut situation immensely. All right? It allowed me enough money to rent a porch. My bedroom when I first started working, there was a literal porch full of other dudes. That house was full of rats I accidentally got a and I texted my old roommate. I was like, Hey man, do He is like, no, dude. That I was moving up, but I Boy, this porch was just the beginning. I wanna take a time out how grateful I am for everything. The donut and the audience years have done for me. You know, putting this video how much my life has I'm making decisions right to do next, not on what I have to do next, and that privilege is So for every single one of you that are hopefully watching this right now, thank you so much. It's gonna take a while, dude. The first video I ever made for Donut Media was called Car, don't Get Screwed Buying a used Car. It was a vo driven montage that you should do when that you don't get screwed. Look at the condition of the Do the pads and rotors look thin? Do they look grooved like a The shooter for that was We bonded over the fact that and we didn't know which A theme that would continue and is still very much the case today. We shot the video and as we were driving we shot the video and as we freeway, Jesse leaned down of the camera car hung and filmed rolling shots of that we just bought Los Angeles Skyline behind me in the sunset, and I got a friend bone that hasn't gone down in eight years. I've shot hundreds of in much cooler locations But that day changed my life. It was the definition of a core memory and set my life on a trajectory making videos about cool Ironically, the BMW had title and we did in fact get screwed. Many of you guys probably found or Money Pitch Wheelhouse, or if you're an OG Science before any of those and raw and formative to and the people that worked vibe that you guys fell in of them moved on before James Kirkoff, Jacob Aian, Andy Puka, Sam Conifer lvo, Tony Balde, and I still work with today. All of these people were into something worth paying attention to. I could make a whole video to the aesthetic, the and purpose of Donut. Several of them went on to start a company called Race Service. Now, this is also when some of the people that you have heard of Nolan was hired as an and Eddie Esparza who have shot, edited and directed some of the also started their donut You guys need any help In 2017, about a year after I got involved, Matt asked me to make a video he's talking about Up to speed. Hey dude, I haven't I popped up in donut but my focus really was I was happy being a part with fun drift video concepts and making pitch decks, trying he will slide around a corner and interesting style a Basically saying, Hey, trust us. Matt insisted and we decided that I'd host of the Nissen Skyland, six hours to shoot, and took Eddie months to hilarious gaming laptop with Do anyone got Mike? Like if brought this laptop and was like, Hey, some In the movie, people would be Thing sucks altogether. Took about four months, If you like this format, let us know what else you want us to cover. If you hate my face, let me know. If you want me to die, please tell me how. Please subscribe, comment. Now, this time we were mostly 'cause Facebook was paying The name we ended up calling experiment on building I'm wanna be real with you guys. Did pretty good too. Got and as a reward, I was told that I have to make one every week Up to speed changed everything. Let me be clear, the stunt videos that we had been doing were rad, all right, very cool. But they were expensive of resources to shoot. Every video would take the sometimes to another country for days or even weeks at a time. Now, I often say that early boutique ad agency. Those stunt videos were essentially ads and how cool they were how cool the client was and the views reflected that we were seeing people come back to the channel every Thursday No matter what car we were talking about, we were getting views and for the first time to get subscribers. You guys, that's when you I've been here since Grady's and Lambos and Chris Forsburg, drift van q and a. Well, not you. I'm what you call an og. I'm saying most people. All right. Most subscribers started weekly content consistently, and because of that, we decided and completely undeserved Matt promoted Jesse to chief Creative Officer, The two of us were now in charge of all things creative at Donut. Now, none of this, none of this donut would've happened without Matt Levin. Matt is the smartest and there are a lot of to who've said that same alright for anyone. He saw what Donut could be and he didn't relent on reminding us. He pushed us constantly further He had big ideas. He encouraged us to have big ideas and then he'd figure out how No one had ever believed in before, and I'm sure other people that donut feel the same way. The amount of respect and and the amount of care that as creatives and leaders is a gift that I hope someday I can afford on more people in the future. Matt, thank you. Our first decision as to this day, brilliant, move, hire our friends, teach the One such intern was a of Nolan j Sykes. Perhaps you've heard of him now, Nolan is one of the and dynamic personalities but back then, he was a an amazing work ethic, and a haircut that was Nolan sent Matt an email Matt told him to email and according to Nolan, he for exactly three months. From that day, emailed Matt again and was invited to come Now, when people ask me how they can get a job or anywhere really, I always use Nolan as an example of doing it right? Alright, show that you that you can respond, but Alright, Nolan rode the line perfectly. I think we can all agree The dude is a fucking star now. Now, back then, we didn't Okay, I'm gonna be real. So we ended up doing a So in turn, everyone at Donut and together, together and more bits every day until When Nolan joined the team, of stuff until eventually he gravitated to the stuff that he liked the most. He edited videos, wrote sales and research for our Eventually he expressed so we gave him a shot. He took to it very naturally and soaked up everything that me and Bart taught him like a sponge. And eventually Nolan became I mean, he still is. No one before or since has even come close. The dude understands timing He knows when to be serious and though it's harder He eventually told us that he wanted to be on camera as well. So we had him write, edit, and host his own daily automotive news show, donut News. It lasted nine days. In hindsight, that was insane to think a person could do that. It is a lot of work and but he didn't and he kind of killed it. So we started developing to become Wheelhouse. The longest running donut show in the history of the channel. You know, it's very possible. - My nostalgia for these - Working with Nolan has been one of the great joys of my lifetime. When I was younger, I was fortunate enough to have some really great mentors. Guys like Matt Walsh, Colton Eric Moneypenny, Heather Sam Brown, Trevor Moore, Matt Levitt, and a lot of other people. They all spent hours, weeks, years talking to me about comedy, writing with me, letting me act in their thing, really helping me figure out who I was and how I could best present and be the best me that I could be. I wasn't a good actor, They would tell me when I did a good job and maybe more importantly, how to do a better job when I did a bad one, and Nolan was really the first to my first chance to pay it forward and teach someone to do to participate in a tradition Nolan is also my friend, and the partnership that we shared during those formative days of the channel is really special. Recurring jokes like Nolan Drinking Milk or my son Nolan, came from a very pure and genuine, joyful place of joking around at the old donut to make each other laugh because we knew if we could do that, people on YouTube might The vibe and feel that came and was forged in those early building, I think a single and talent than resources. I'm known for selling FM radio has plenty of fans, but what if car owners could We may do with what we had and we built something out of nothing. Speaking of friends, that Park showed up and Bart and I worked at a restaurant together in Louisville, Kentucky. He was a waiter and I was his busboy. I was actually head buser at that restaurant until I got fired. We hit it off instantly and I actually did my first Bart is just about the best friend that anyone could ever hope for, alright? There's times in my early reason I was able to eat. He let me bar his Oldsmobile and when I got arrested when I was 23 for stealing a registration sticker, Bart and two of the other before bailed me outta jail. Turns out that's a felony. All charges were eventually dropped. When I got my Giga donut, I brought Bar in as soon as I could. He took over head writer responsibilities, and as most of you know, started hosting his own show. Science Garage and rakes are the net, - Which means expand. Boy, that was fun and easy. - What we, for a lot of of Donut, the first one at least. This is the team that hit The team that did our first card, the first team with Jimmy showed up. This time at Donut was that I felt successful and I was surrounded by a who were also sharing in that first It was the fucking best and our lineup was fucking Sick Wheelhouse Science Garage, new Car show, which later turned into bumper to bumper, the old version hosted by me. This is also when we did Miracle With and Bating cleanup the show I fucking love that shit, man. That shit was the most fucking fun shit ever, man. It was responsible for so through the channel to this day. Our style, our sense of humor, Every car is cool. Let's be inclusive. A hardcore car guy can but a person who's just watch it and like it too. People watched it with their with their spouses. Not to mention all the around Mo Powell, baby Power Baby. A More power baby, more Buff horses. Lightning, lightning, lightning Curse Jessica Nolan's son. Things that you guys connected I almost forgot. A lot of the style and to Kolby Mann, the editor of Up To Speed. Kby was my dj. We had a shorthand. I'd be filming an episode editing on the other side of the office, and if I said something funny enough, I can hear Colby laugh. I knew killing, and then he'd try and make me laugh with the edit. He's the reason that we started so that he could move me all around and I think put me in What? What Ram Charger. You driving around in that It's called a Hellcat Yeah. Trick. Oh my Lord, please don't use We definitely wouldn't have gone as far or as hard as we did. I think the channel would Probably a lot more boring We're just kind of a Multiple videos a week, what worked and what didn't. Eventually Matt told me, So we posted on our Insta and hired a casting director to do a nationwide casting call. Thousands of people applied, and shoulders above the rest. A dude from North Canton, Ohio that worked at ECS tuning Zach job - Account, he infested. - Zach changed the game for We went from being a channel and sometimes drove cars to He's probably the only with his specific skillset, right? He worked in parts development at ECS. He's an insane mechanic. He was good on camera, He was a really hard worker and he was really interested Now, stunt videos was phase and Wheelhouse were phase two. Then phase three started This is our E 36 rally. We were like, you want an And while he was still literally we started production on high, mean more better. Let's find out. Let's find out. Yeah. Now I feel like all the videos we made up until this point were Okay, we got some buzz. People were starting to knew who we were. We had a pretty dedicated fan But High Low was our debut album was the first time that we Our first series, our first and the first time a donut bought Project Cars Getting a Good Pump Gun. Alright? I just rewatched that first season about a year ago, and I remember thinking, this is so good, but there is no way that we could do We were so dedicated to get it done. The emotions are so real. Our budgets were tiny and we loved it for the most part. And I think all of that really We were just grateful to be there and the best moment in the history of the channel happened Here we go. Okay, 3, 2, 1. - This is like what failure looks like? You good now? No, Eddie, not - Dude? Hilo is my favorite thing, and in my opinion, still the best thing that we have ever done on the channel. Now, I can't mention High another Zach. Zach, red Pat, Zach, co-directed season one and he's directed almost every He might be the single that I have ever worked with, right? He's also one of the coolest The Tacoma season of High Low was kind of a rough, crazy time. High, low always is, we ran outta water on a mountain for days. Straight, straight. Hey, tap, tap, tap. Was that the winch? That when we got back from Colorado. Red Path quit. All right, and He's that kind of cool. Over the years, we've offered of different job titles and All right. That's how He prefers coming in, killing it, and leaving Eddie and Felipe. The guys who started his interns with Nolan are also and co-directing a lot of high Low. That show definitely would not be what it is without those dudes. They did such a great job, in fact that when we launched those guys started directing full time. Felipe would later end up to bumpers starting Jeremiah Burton. Speaking of Jeremiah Burton. Jeremiah auditioned during but we'd already given the and cool and we liked him, so for the next year. He wrote some episodes of Bumper to bumper and some scripts for up to speed, J some as well as a bunch of other So at the beginning of 2020, He took over bumper to bumper and then Covid hit. And with it came a new era of Donut. We didn't miss a single upload. We immediately ordered webcams and sent them to everybody's house. Jesse Redpath and Max set and taught us how to shoot well Our head of production, Christina Nicoli, somehow connected all between our houses all over the city and sometimes outside of the city, keeping this shit running. Trying to figure out what to say she did, but I literally have no idea. Alright? I just know that we couldn't have done it without her. And the fact That I don't of a good producer when Covid hit. Zach had just started shooting Money Pit at his house with Eddie. So they just locked in and Nolan did wheelhouse and pass gas over Zoom Joe Weber did pass gas with I did pass gas with Nolan I was also doing Up to Speed and launched the list the Now the D-list is when I with a guy named Max to become the current creative Might be my favorite part of quarantine. Max and I were just doing the knocked it out of the fricking port. I'm going crazy. AKA All right, just turn back my son. You're a little, It was perfect for being basically slap happy for a year. I think he's such a and his job is hard right now and he cares about Donut So please, like I said, give him a shot and please be nice to him. Jeremiah went into Covid, a new host, and he came out of Covid, a fucking star who had Covid and gave it He turned his garage and him Felipe Tiernan and Jesse completely to be me talking about a driven weekly event. And a lot of people's favorite as the science-minded Jeremiah became our Donatello. Nolan is Michelangelo. Zach, obviously, Rafael not gonna say who I am, but At some point, Kaan Garrison and became a really great I think so much of Donut is duos, me and Jesse, me and Max, me and and Nolan Canan and Jeremiah have made some of the best donut videos I haven't seen it out in the world. He's a big time now, and so far are awesome. And you can bet that Canaan's a big part of the Crack It Open. While I'm giving props to Henry Dre, and he's worked with us forever and is responsible for some of the coolest and weirdest stuff that we've ever done. All in all, honestly, quarantine I mean, it was weird, obviously but it was a time of extreme for the channel and viewership. People had a lot of time to sit around and watch YouTube videos, but it was also huge for us creatively. 'cause we were forced to push ourselves into making videos in a completely different way. And 'cause we weren't we basically became individual alone in our houses. But we also talked more that or since we leaned on each It sucked, but it was awesome. And another genius move from Matt. We took advantage of the low during Covid, and we finally It allowed us to work on more cars. We did more season to buy low. We were able to make bigger And then in November of 2021, by Recurrent Ventures. And to be honest, not much changed. Initially, 2022 was actually Matt had moved away from totally unsupervised in a new shop. It was like Lord of the Yeah, we hung out and stayed I met Riley when she was I became really good friends who designs all our Merck. Our videos evolved with the of stuff in a new space. We had gone from shooting in office that we shared to shooting alone in our And now all together again, so many new ways. Okay? Oh my God, you swapped We built trucks, we built WR Xs, we shot each other with BB guns. We had cookouts and happy hours. It was total chaos, but and we were getting a ton of views. My birthday that year was one of the best birthdays I have ever had. And then slowly it got less and less fun. And I think a number of We were and are involved There was more structure, more bosses, and honestly at this point, Jesse and I have been going and the other guys have been of times harder since they came on. And we did that because there was this idea or imagined probably a lot of both, that we were all building But that thing that we and it never was, and it never would be. And I think that that's We don't own it and we never owned it. None of the guys that make And more importantly, without to decide what Donut does, which is scary when you're the faces of it. The new leadership at Donut, and I often disagreed about I was very vocal about what I I'm not very good at hiding how I feel, which ironically is something that I always felt made I've cried twice during this video so far. Jesse ended up leaving in to my motivation to stay. And eventually, me and the guys in charge decided that it was best if we Now, this relationship that I've built with you guys over the past that I've worked very hard for and something that I am It's also something that I'm It's what every YouTube the audience, you guys. And every time a company makes a decision, it has the potential to at risk and a donut. I don't feel like I have enough say in what those decisions are and whether or not we should take those risks. So I'd rather start a new thing where the only person I with is my best friend that I trust. Because my relationship with of the most important things in my life. I literally owe you everything. I'm not exaggerating. I was living on a fucking Now, I'm not saying that the are bad, but the fact or sometimes even consulted is enough for me to have to walk away. So I am, which finally brings me to what the fuck this is. Oh my God. Finally! He's been talking Welcome to Speeed. So what is Speeed? In a lot of ways, it's that I think I'm good at, the stuff that I really enjoy making, just sitting here and talking to you guys, that I think deserve to be told and teaching you about and you might think is cool too. There will be some car stuff, But I want the opportunity to really explore a I wanna get outta my comfort I wanna feel nervous again. I And just like we fell in love Shelby, Lee Iococca, RWB, Spoon, Mugan, all that other crazy car shit that I talked about from 2016 to 2022. There is a whole world of people, places, and stuff out there that I Things that I think are cool and exciting that I can't I think that you guys and It's why we get along so well. So I'm hoping that you guys and think it's cool too, Carhartt, Jackass, Virgil Rolex, Leica, Fender, Chrome Adidas, Dieter Rams. Basically, I'm gonna do of different cool shit to to know about everything. I've been so focused and nervous about getting this video out and the next couple of videos ready. Hopefully enough of you because if Jesse and I are able to think about to think about Donut, and most importantly, 100% and what it does, I am really of fruit this tree can bear. I'm excited to share Maybe make some jams or some hard cans. I'm leaving a channel with and this channel has zero as of today. So if you like this or me and you're excited about this By subscribing, we're of new videos, but they're because we're literally a team of two and we wanna make sure Every single video we're So hit that notification and follow me on Instagram because that is by far the to you guys day to day. And because this is a new venture, I'm gonna be updating I'm really, really excited with you guys a lot more. Everything said on my Instagram and on this channel does Thank you for the past nine years. Guys, here's the nine more. Oh, I love you. I didn't think it's what I wanted. I had it all figured out. I never got a donut because I didn't want to jinx it. I thought it would be nice It was like a really Plus, I know that a lot of and I don't want you to regret Welcome to Speeed.