Hey guys, about biblical archaeology enough. Because atheists keep on thinking that And then, it is the opposite. the Bible is true. years they found amazing discoveries. Ask yourself - about one discovery in his last few years? Probably not, right? discoveries in just this last 10 years. [Music] The burnt scroll of Leviticus. now is amazing when it comes to technology. where we can actually go and, you know, the past. we can now go and read those ancient scrolls. though it's burnt. and read those ancient scrolls. Because the scroll was burned so badly, Researchers had conserved had advanced to the point where it might be real. Well, the day is here. The translated text of Leviticus is identical to This makes the En-Gedi scroll the And bridges a gap in the that had existed between the Dead Sea Scrolls Wow! Let it sink in. excite you, I don't know what will. Many discoveries at the Temple Mount. This was between 2015 and 2017. like old pottery, arrowheads, to the time of David's conquest of the city. flooring tiles to the second temple. Then in 2017, the TMSP, which stands found Solomon's Colonnade which is a capital This is basically one of the columns the colonnade of the second temple. disciples were there. [John 10:23] [Acts 5:12] It's amazing, isn't it. When you have some time, read more And then I would really recommend Because this is just amazing. the ESV - but in it, you get all these And it's just amazing because it Because, you see it for yourself. Let's move on to the next one. [Music] Jabal's cattle cult. you know, when you go back far into history. Proof that people existed. So do we have any evidence of people Well, read this with me [Genesis 4:17] So Jabal is the sixth generation of Cain, right? So his family - I mean - back then remember could have had many children. So you kind of start your own tribe. farmed with livestock. According to Armstrong Institute.org - This find basically confirms the many scientists that this find is The stone structures, all of which were dated Along with cattle-related remains and mustatils were more than merely cattle pens. Interesting isn't it? Biblical Archeology says this: Pilate's ring. someone called Pilate never existed. You know, Pilate - the one who They said this Governor - But then they found the Pilate So this stone proved that Pilate was not just It was real. He was a governor at that time and They found this stone in 1961 and now in 2018 Short and sweet. they actually found this a while ago but they Let's move on to the next one. The seal impression of King Hezekiah You know, the king who lived They found his seal impression They found it in 2015 and dated 2,700 it was discovered in Jerusalem some also have Hebrew names on them. Now, this proves that Hezekiah- Hezekiah that he is someone that actually really lived And there's an interesting story [2 Kings 20:1-6] Wow, the Bible is alive! Gideon's jug. He is one of the judges in the time The first king was Saul, and then But in the time of the judges, One of them - Gideon - and they found his mug. It said Jerubbaal. Because that was what he was called. [ Judges 6:29-32] Archaeology proves that even a small Christianity today.com says: false gods of Canaan evidence about this until now. Has yielded a trove of artifacts used in and two four-inch tall bronze Not only that, they also found a which they think was probably used to Khirbet El-Maqatir. I think that's how you pronounce it. Sorry guys if it's wrong. is extremely important. Because okay, let me explain it to you this way. went to have a big battle at Ai the city of Ai? called them to go again [Joshua 8:1-3] [Joshua 8:28-29] So this rare scarab that they found It dates back to this time to Which is likely in the reign of Amenhotep II From 1995 to 2017, they discovered And they realized it is from the time of Joshua It was destroyed by fire. In the time of Joshua. The time the conquest occurred It along with a second scarab from the Christ helped date the period of the fortress The seal impression of Isaiah. This is amazing. Eilat Mazar and her team just Enough of it is clear enough to read And then below, it we see the letters NVY. which are the first three letters Now take note, they found this with And yes, Hezekiah's impression Carvings of the Assyrian king It is believed that this king is Sargon II And we actually read about Now listen to what they found: The artwork was carved in relief in a cliff along According to Christianity Today. done so already and watch these videos here. And always remember - And I love you, too.