October 19th, dissatisfied with Record numbers of Canadians The result. Justin Trudeau is elected of Canada, with a large crowd Trudeau It's time for a change A real change. Canadians across the country They believed in a bright The government would build more affordable and usher The Canadian dream. But fast forward to today, Housing prices have increased Food banks are turning away and immigrants The Canadian dream This is the dark side If you talk to real Canadians, they will tell you they feel about their future. They'll share how, of a life raising a family and in a safe neighborhood. Or with home prices soaring. This dream has become to buy the average home A family needs to earn And in Vancouver that number to $360,000 per year. Compare this to the median And it becomes clear that it is nearly impossible Most Canadians who don't own see it as remotely possible The sad part about this Canada's housing In fact, homeownership was But in the last few decades, housing prices have increased that it has forced citizens to abandon Even if you can afford you aren't getting very much. Take Vancouver, for example. The average home here is nearly $2 million, Who wants to spend nearly $2 million When you can get a mansion for the same amount? Now, not everyone are perfectly fine renting. But renting is just as hard of under building growth and government The supply of rental units Across Canada, rental vacancy sits at an all This means people are fighting Each application with hundreds and renters are left It's getting to the point where you can choose or you can choose But you can't do both. The low levels of vacancy are leading to skyrocketing Landlords realize and therefore they continue to extract maximum value. Our landlord increased The outcome? Rents continue and will do so for years For example, the average one and Vancouver After taxes and rent, have enough money to make ends People are skipping meals, living in their cars, Debt has become an absolute And Canada now has the third highest household debt All of this is compounded by the inability In fact, many would argue is making life much harder The problem with housing of federal and inaction Prime Minister the largest increase in history. Much of this is due Since 2016, nearly 3 million immigrants That is a record and 40% in the last few decades. To make matters worse, foreign students By increasing the population in such a short The government has squeezed an already under built It is simple economics. Increasing demand causes prices to go up. Furthermore, for entry level placing a disproportionate on average, who are looking for For example, can no longer find housing and now live in vans I have to wait, I guess like more than a year on campus in UBC. One student even flies because it's cheaper than rent. Rooming across the country, where landlords squeeze five students into one bedroom Immigration for rising prices, though, and it's easy for folks But Canada has underinvested In fact, CIBC estimates more homes by 2030 to achieve Developers agree Of course, you can't flip the switch And in Canada, have shown an unwillingness For one, citizens against development as it would lower the value Permit and NIMBYism challenges Elected officials know this and therefore don't push hard an election. Furthermore, each city a multitude of taxes that drive the cost In some cities, this can add over and this cost is directly passed on to consumers A part of the reason taxes tape continue to increase is the government is growing From 2020 to 2023. The B.C. government Compare this to the private This explosive job A similar pattern can be seen which has added nearly since 2015, and the final nail in the coffin Foreign Investment Canada and safe place but it also happens to be in the OECD to launder money. Another bombshell laundering scandal in B.C., a report agreed and concluded that significant amounts was buying and selling especially Vancouver But what has the government Nothing. Money laundering is Now housing is just one What about everyday costs Canada saw food prices leading nearly 2 million Canadians to visit a record high and double One of the reasons Canadian food prices are so high But grocery chain for food inflation. A handful of companies The government nothing to prevent which has led to that is able to extract The worst example of this is bread, which is dominated Not only this, but the government in increasing by protecting the poultry, This alone cost nearly $450 per year. That could be the difference The federal plan puts a price on pollution and it spurs innovation in emissions reduction While at the same time in the pockets of Canadians, policies leading to higher For example, the government introduced a carbon tax and heating more expensive Canadians spend more on gas by a long shot. The carbon tax has been met with significant pushback In fact, Liberal MPs have spoken out as the number of complaints from constituents This came to a head when citizens the cost of the carbon tax. Given the use of expensive the Liberal government in an effort Recently, narrative that most citizens in spite of carbon taxes However, the parliamentary budget clarified and said if you include But this isn't just limited to Canadians experience multiple industries The most glaring example Here's a quick question. Are we paying too much for and internet Absolutely. The Canadian wireless market in the world, seven times more expensive more expensive than Finland. The craziest part player, Shaw, by the largest player Rogers and the government In most countries, such a deal would most likely But in Canada, major corporations have extreme influence get away with these Banking is similar. There is no competition to start up. A bank is nearly impossible regulatory controls that favor This has led to Canadians banking fees It is estimated that Canadians on banking fees than peers Why? No competition. Now I could list a million but the conclusion is Canada is extremely expensive. One way to counter the economy and introduce However, Canada has struggled Since 2019, Canada in economic productivity. While the US This decline is partly responsible and reduction One of the drivers for this sector investment. Canadian businesses outside of Canada But why aren't companies Simply put, they believe they can generate especially as they lose faith in the current which is not seen as business Another reason is lack Most major Canadian industries are controlled These players have no real leading to reductions The US has low levels concentration leading to constant As companies continue another reason is government For example, Canada in investment due to federal prices Since 2014, energy investment by nearly $60 But one could argue that oil and Canada should focus on Which is absolutely fair. However, since 2016, GDP companies has only grown meaning All efforts by the government industrial investment But this is not simply limited to large businesses Canada is seeing an exodus like never before. Each year, 7% of Canadians searching for opportunity. And why wouldn't they? Jobs pay more. Cost of living is lower and The loser in this scenario but hard working Canadians more difficult as productivity The central bank to maintain lower interest further Overall, the outlook does not Let's hope Subscribe to 2&amp;20 for more business and economics insight.