The Press: Is the Comey your birthday present? The President: Well, it seems on my birthday. Maybe that's appropriate. Let's see if it is. Look, he's a very dishonest man; I've been saying it I think I did our country a really great favor And we'll see what happens. We'll see what the report says. But I guess it that it's coming out so that'll be maybe Who knows. The Press: (Inaudible) Trudeau? The President: We're going with the unfair trade practices. If you look at what Canada, all of them have been many decades, And they understand The Press: What are you going without you? The President: We are going Now, if we're unable to make NAFTA; we'll have a better deal. If we are unable to make a deal, Right now, we are not with the deals the way they are. European Union Canada, very unfairly. Mexico, very unfairly. With that being said, I think we'll probably The Press: Were you serious to prepare for the Kim summit? The President: No, I said I've been I always believe in preparation, but I've been You know, these one-week Just ask Hillary what happened So, I've been preparing And frankly, it's really Because if you run, Peter, the clip, you would see: I've really been I said that, but, you know, the news doesn't pick that up because it's fake news. The Press: Are you glad The President: It's very a leaker in a very important -- it's a very important leaker. So, it's very interesting. I'm getting Happened last night. It could be a terrific thing. I know -- I believe strongly I'm a big, big believer but I'm also a believer Has to remain classified. And that includes Comey who leak classified information So, I'm a very big believer but I'm also a believer that you cannot leak The Press: Do you have Bourdain's death this morning? The President: Yeah, In fact, I want to extend to his That was very shocking. When I woke up this morning: And I enjoyed his show. He was But I just want to extend And also, to the family The Press: (Inaudible) The President: It may be. You can call it anything you want. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what you call it. It used to be the G8 And now Russia's not in it. Now, I love our country. I have been Russia's If Hillary got in, I'd think &quot;Man, I wish Hillary won.&quot; Because you see what I do. But, with that being said, Russia should be Why are we having a meeting without Russia being in the meeting? And I would recommend, but Russia should be They should be a part of it. You know, whether and it may not be but we have a world to run. And in the G7, which used to be They should let Russia Because we should have Russia The Press: Mr. President, (inaudible) The President: Say it? What? The Press: You're leaving Why did you decide (inaudible)? The President: I may leave It depends on the timing. But I may leave And it depends Look, all of these countries of the United States on trade. You saw where Canada charges 270 percent tariffs. We don't charge them, or if we So, we have to We have massive trade deficits We will straighten that out. And I'll tell you what, It won't even be hard. And in the end, But they understand. And you know, Well, we fought They don't mention the fact against our farmers. They don't mention the fact almost 300 percent tariffs. When it all straightens out, The Press: Will there be The President: There will I thought Alice, I thought Jack Johnson, which was recommended and some great boxers -- I thought Jack Johnson I'm thinking about somebody And he went through a lot. And he wasn't very popular The Press: Is it O.J.? The President: And he wasn't No, I'm not thinking about O.J. But he's not -- But he was -- look, He's -- certainly, his memory I'm thinking about Muhammad Ali. I'm thinking about And some others. And some folks that have But I am thinking In fact, we're doing right now, frankly, we're doing The Press: (Inaudible.) The President: Say it, Peter, The Press: (Inaudible) The President: No, no. No, I'm not above the law. I'd never want anybody But the pardons are a very I think you see the way And yes, I do have an absolute But I'll never have to do it because I didn't And everybody knows it. There's been no collusion. There's been no obstruction. It's all a made-up fantasy. It's a witch hunt. No collusion, Now, the Democrats have had massive obstruction, We'll see what's happening. Yeah. The Press: (Inaudible.) The President: I haven't I haven't even thought -- I haven't thought It certainly is far too early The Press: (Inaudible.) The President: They haven't There's nothing to pardon. It's far too early to be -- it is far too early The Press: Mr. President, to actually get tired and say, Enough ? The President: Well, Scott within the walls of the EPA. I mean, we're setting records. Outside, he's being attacked And I'm not saying but we'll see what happens. The Press: But Are you not tired of him? The Press: (Inaudible) pardons? The President: That's what We have 3,000 names. We're looking at them. Of the 3,000 names, really have been You know, this is a group And I would get more thrill that nobody knows -- I thought Kim Kardashian because she brought Alice was so great. And the way she left that jail, and the tears and the love I mean, to me, that was better that I can pardon. So, we're looking at it. But we are looking at literally that have come to our attention or where their sentence The Press: Mr. President, both Lebron James if they win, they're not The President: I No, I didn't invite and I didn't invite Steph Curry. We're not going to But we have other teams You know, if you look, we had we had Clemson, we had the New England Patriots; we had the Pittsburgh The Press: What about the Caps? The President: I think I mean, we'll see. You know my attitude: it's the greatest place If they don't want to be here, The Press: What's your response saying the FBI did the The President: I think if is saying, The fact is, they had people they had people doing things in the history of this country, and it really is a disgrace. And frankly, that stuff The Press: (Inaudible.) The President: Fire who? The Press: (Inaudible.) The President: We'll We'll see what happens. The Press: What do you think saying you're The President: Mitt Romney The Press: Mitt Romney said easy to win again. The President: Well, Look, Mitt's a straight shooter. Whether people love him The Press: Well, he called you The President: Mitt Romney And yeah, he -- I appreciate that. That's good. The Press: Mr. President, what The President: I love Canada, very unfairly on trade. Very, very unfairly. You see the numbers. Almost 300 percent on dairy. So, they treat us very unfairly. Are you guys all going? You better get going, Peter. We'll leave without you. The Press: (Inaudible.) The President: I would if I get it through Congress. I wouldn't do like Obama did. And fortunately, he wasn't You know, he tried to get it He tried to get it So, he just did it without, which is why I was able And Iran is now They're not looking to Iran is now country since I did -- since I signed that out, Iran is The Press: Do you support federalism bill? The President: I really do. I support Senator Gardner. I know exactly what he's doing; But I probably will end up The Press: (Inaudible.) The President: The First Lady Right there. She has to -- can't fly for one month. The Press: Why not? The President: The doctors say, That was a -- And she's doing great. Right there. And you know what? She is a great First Lady. The Press: (Inaudible) The President: Terrible. The Press: (Inaudible.) The President: We'll be talking Okay, any other questions? The Press: How do you feel The President: Was Incredible that you can That's one thing I can say. And I think that was unfortunate that they broke Not a good practice. The Press: (Inaudible.) The President: Well, this is a Democrat bill. The Democrats can end All they have to do and negotiate a real bill allows us to keep criminals It's very easy. You know, Schumer is a guy -- but he doesn't do anything. Schumer is a guy He can't do anything. All he can do is obstruct. All they have to do is call us that gives us great border Because I don't like being separated I don't like it. I hate it. But that's a Democrat bill We can change it in one day. All they have to do The Press: (Inaudible.) The President: I can't hear Too much competition. Go ahead. The Press: (Inaudible.) The President: No, I can't believe See they're shocked, right? The Press: Are you going The President: We'll bring We'll bring it up. The Press: What are you going on the plane? The President: I have work. I have about 15 boxes of work. I will be able to work without where you people are writing and we have to respond. No, seriously, I mean, that's on the plane The Press: Are you worried that Rudy is saying in Israel? Is he giving you any headaches? The President: Look, But Rudy is Rudy. But Rudy is doing Doing a very good job. The Press: Is being a porn star He said it's not. The President: He said what? The Press: He said that is not respectable work. The President: I'm not going The Press: (Inaudible.) The President: I can't hear The Press: Was Dennis Rodman The President: No, he wasn't, A great rebounder. You know when you think -- Dennis was a great rebounder relatively speaking, that tall. So that tells you. You know, there's a rebounding Dennis Rodman One thing we are thinking about, the power to pardon You got to get it right. You got to get the right people. I am looking at Muhammad Ali. But those are the famous people. And in one way, it's easier, but I want to do people that are where she comes out and What I am thinking to do -- in the NFL, in particular, but in sports leagues. They're not proud enough to I don't like that. What I'm going to do instead of talk. It's all talk, talk, talk. We have a great country, you should stand You shouldn't go when our National I am going to ask all of those because that's what people that they think by the justice system. And I understand that. And I'm going to ask them that were unfairly treated -- friends of theirs or people and I'm going to take a look And if I find, that they are unfairly treated, then we will pardon them The Press: Will you invite them for a roundtable about social -- The President: You know, I'm not looking to grandstand. We've got enough grandstanders I'm just saying, for the if the players, if the athletes that they know about that have been unfairly treated The Press: So, do you need to get a pardon? The President: Well, you know, that's really -- that But they know a lot of things They've seen a lot of abuse and they've seen So, if they have -- how do you The Press: I'll leave The Press: (Inaudible)? The President: Oh, no, I don't have to do it. Never did anything wrong. And you know that better The Press: Are you concerned leaking to their sources? The President: I think Reporters can't leak. You cannot leak At the same time, But you cannot leak like Hillary you cannot leak If you look at I mean he went to jail over not And it's very unfair and that Comey's allowed It's very unfair. Thank you much. I'll see you in Canada.