What can we do as individuals to promote constructive dialog respectful, constructive solutions Well, so I think it's in clubs like this, you know, that bring people together Were we can all make a difference. You know, I really I think we all need Familiar faces, new faces. Nice to see so many of you here. Welcome to the Commonwealth Club My name is Raj Mathai and the lead anchor I'm your moderator for this event today. A special thanks. Before we bring out General McMaster, Family Foundation for supporting today's It is now my pleasure to honor McMaster served in the U.S. Army as an officer for 34 years. He retired as a lieutenant He was also, of course, the national security advisor He served in that role He is currently the senior fellow University, also a fellow at the Freeman In his new book, if you haven't ready already, read it, At War With Ourselves, General McMaster offers a frank assessment of the significant achievements And that's key. The pros and the cons that he faced as the national security adviser Ladies and gentlemen, please McMaster. All right. Thanks so much. Thank you. Thanks. Nice to have you here. Hey, thanks to you. The Commonwealth Club, the Travis Family Thank you. Great to be with you. Anything happening Too much, right? Too much that we should know about. Okay, before we get going, just. Just tell me. A day in the life right now. You're done with the book, Day in the life down at Stanford. What are you doing now? Yeah. So I'm a senior fellow at the Hoover And because I first of all, I could not have gotten into. And so I get to work and really just great colleagues, But but across the faculty at Stanford, I'm We have a really neat research who work together to understand better we're facing internationally. And, you know, hashtag predictable. You know, for a washed up general, the Army, I made a mission statement full and comprehensive understanding we face internationally as a way for meaningful, respectful discussions. So we have the kind of we need so we can work together So I don't know. How well that's going, But but we're working on it. I think I speak for everyone in this room We appreciate what you've done and what you continue Thank you so. Much. Well, to his. And one more. And I know I have some space between you Does anyone ever call you Herbert? Raymond McMaster? You know, of course, my mom named H.R.. Because she was afraid That I would. Call her be. And of. Course, just knowing that that's that's what all my. Football and rugby teammates called me. Of course, School and at West Point. But in your hearts, I have absolutely. Okay, I told you this This book usually I got kids in the job, but it took me about two and a half weeks took me a day or two going down these rabbit holes of why Air Force One doesn't have I'm looking up Shakespeare, Macbeth, The meeting at NATO before Trump went in which is the limousine. So it's fascinating the levels Well, why write this? Well, and so I felt a duty to was a pivotal and very consequential year I want I want to kind of give readers to serve in a White House, what it was what it's like to be Hey, what the heck does a nice discrete And and I wanted to tell the story of Remember all the headlines When I was there, everything That. But really the story is about how our team And I think to put into place some pretty foreign policy. So, you know, I hope that the tone of the book is not one of, gosh, that it was a privilege to serve are challenging conditions, We're at war with ourselves. I think based on the kind of vitriolic discourse, which is bad for our psyches, But it's also bad for governance. And so a lot of the book kind of polarization that we're seeing, there are feeding each other really impede a president's ability You know. You said something in this, I knew when I took the job Reports that I had never really clicked I did not need Trump as a friend, Those who wanted me out That's a big nugget, a big paragraph And what that what that alludes to is, I have a much different personalities, But what is most important, You know, and I use I use an epigraph from George Shultz, who many of you know Who who. Who served Hoover till the age of 100, and was a huge part of the work He just made the simple statement as the epigraph of the postscript Good things happened Good things did not happen. And and so those who have an agenda to give the elected president so the president can determine his Those are people who try to instead consistent with their own agendas their own agendas in mind The National Recruiting Council staff across the government to present Right. As a danger And then of course in the Trump this is true in all ministrations a higher number of people in that if what may be his first of I think there were a lot of people in the role of saving the country and what I write about in the book of people you know not only were they but also I think what they're doing because of sovereignty lies It's the president who got elected, Right. Nobody elects national security advisors So that was that was an element were really what were the base motivations and how a different understanding of The Shakespearean reference to Macbeth, the three Wicked Sisters, I do. I do. I do. I do use Shakespearean analogies. Because I do think Shakespeare wrote Right. And and so the Weird Sisters or, you know, creating, by, you know, disinformation, by innuendo by by various sort of forms of slander and so forth. And and that's what that's what people I mean, the classic example, Steve Bannon, we're engaged which is, you know, regrettable it just distracts from the important work You know, and and I describe in the book 2017, social media attack campaign at the time. I think the the Atlantic Council's Laboratory said it was the against any individual And that was initiated in sort of the, These terms sometimes are very useful And then the Russians thought, Opportunity to get rid of that. Guy who's telling President. Trump to be tough on Vladimir Putin and. Russia. And they jumped in on it. So a lot of the traffic the United States was then magnified So the so-called Internet Research Agency, for four Russian intelligence agencies. Where you fear for your life at all and you. And to ask you that question means a lot and yeah. I just realized in my life that, you know, In a situation like that. And and I've been in. Actual combat, like, I really I think you know, that that you focus on the mission and your soldiers, your fellow servicemen and women. And as a leader, you from fear, insulates you really from or angst that you might expect But then, you know, it was affecting my family you know, members of our team who came under concerted attack So what I what I resolved to do was to transcend it, You know, I, I mentioned in the. Book how. Very early on in my time I talked to every living national security you know, his or her advice and so I got to know Henry Kissinger pretty well over that period of time, He also had a great sense of humor, this book, I did a zoom with him He goes, don't do what I did. Don't try to write everything you know. In his in his book. The White House, The White House Years. But, but, but then I told him, looking back on this, at the time I had a fundamental choice to make between in these games, you know, these power And I said, you know, I knew And plus, you know, what we really need So my answer was always like and just try even harder to foster And and after I told him that said, They would have eaten you alive. Those are some interesting conversations. Looking back. I mean, you were at an alliance companies, Henry Kissinger, Colin Powell, Did you discuss kind of the strategy With everyone that I did. I did. And then those were really fruitful All of them were very gracious. You know, it's kind of a club, you know, it crosses over, I mean, one of my best conversations just before he passed away. We were scheduled, and we talked for like an hour and a half, of really good advice and the nature of the relationship So so, you know, And I think that, you know, I'm So, of course, The history of those You know, I think an exercise in humility, all the answers, you know, And so you And I think in this kind of a job, by the range of experiences the opportunity your Army gave me to to read, think, research an American War, which became a book And so I had written about the dysfunction making and policymaking under the Lyndon And so at least I knew of the mistakes so I could make new mistakes. As. As a as a as someone who walked and had this kind of surreal feeling, Know, from a history perspective, Of the decision making, from the perspective You bring up Dereliction of Duty and you were analyzing and military strategic roles in the And you say something history doesn't repeat itself, Yes. Yes. And are we rhyming right now? I think we are rhyming. You know, I think that all of the issues that are in Right? Vladimir Putin's aggression, right, ambitions and various forms of aggression very aggressive in the South China Sea vis a vis ally of the United States, you know, the threat from Iran and the degree to support terrorist terrorist organizations and militias to keep the Arab world perpetually weak and to establish this ring of fire And in an effort to push the United States really, really of destroying Israel It's what Iran wants to do. And it's a it's a it's a threat as they race toward So I could go on. But all the issues that we grappled with from 2017 to 2018 are still quite of geopolitics and and international You're a leader, you're a combat veteran, your patriot. Is Donald Trump a patriot? Russia? I would say yes. I believe that he wants You know, his his brand of patriotism It's it's more maybe overstay ID, He's not a. Big hugger of people, if anybody's noticed that, But but I believe in my time what was best for the country. Now, he also predominantly wants Right. So I write in the book he is most effective when he views with what are what are the most important policy initiatives to advance to to strengthen American security and influence in the world. So so there are occasions and he put into some of the most significant shifts foreign policy since the of the Cold War. Many of these were long overdue. And I'm thinking in particular to competition with China And and finally, kind of jettisoning been welcomed into the international And as China prospered would liberalize its economy we knew by 2017 and we needed where I think his his kind of personality became maybe too disruptive his own policies was in the area I think a decision that he made and the best decision available on Afghanistan, Pakistan, the approach in which he administered policies, taking the timeline off of our recognizing that we were there on a on a modern day frontier He had looked over the precipice would entail and lead to in Afghanistan. And he ended back. But in subsequent months a lot of people were in his ear, you know, comments like this You know, your base expects you to end And so I write about how in, you know, his character and personality And I think all of us could probably agree there's a lot in Washington But of course, at times kind of the antagonist in his own story. Take us behind the scenes, just sitting whether it's in the executive residence, Is it a 40 minute conversation? Is he watching Fox, CNN? What's what's happening here? Well, you know, it just depends, you know, and what the purpose You know, the national secret in the national security who has the president So to serve that president well, a conduit of of information, analysis, from the president's closest advisers And and so to understand tell the president, team would like him to know. You interact with the president And and I write in the Trump administration I describe one of the early presidential a briefing for the president as you know, And and I decided, hey, you know, the he really is someone who likes to play I mean. This crowd is in the Oval. Office, goes in the Oval Office. So I paired And then what we did is we we President Trump is kind He's he's for a long briefing or PowerPoint slides And so what I felt my job to do, is to provide him with the real experts based on their experiences, and he would really kind of like that, And it was those discussions that would some of the more complicated challenges And then also, I think, make decisions You know what? I told a few stories about that, when there are really important decisions when President Trump made the decision civilians, including scores of children you know, the gruesome, We had a formal National Security and followed it with a subsequent when it was time what to do about the South Asia strategy We went offsite to Camp David, But so but some of our best conversations you know, outside of the Oval Office you know, relax a little bit and get out And and those less structured he made some important decisions as well. I tell the story in the book of in early December of 2017, kind of doing a year Here's what here are the shifts in policy Here's where we are on implementation And and and I brought up the issue of whether or not capabilities, And I I had brought a chart with me because he had heard and everybody was in agreement defensive capabilities to the Ukrainians. I laid out a chart really events or the perception of weakness And then immediately an act of Russian aggression, attacks against Estonia 2007, the initial invasion of as a result of the unenforced red line And so the point that I was trying to make Hey, Mr. President, everybody wants to allay that they can get to some kind But but that's not what provokes Putin. It's the security concerns. What provokes And you can maybe prevent a war by He said, okay, General. Okay, General, I brought him You know, A no javelins. B, we provide all of them, which I knew he would never for free, And C which appealed to him more, So those you know, that kind of informal discussion Did it offend you? It seems like you actually adapted You were a teacher that he didn't want a big booklet of stats and analysis, but really kind of more note Yeah, that's right. And he also wanted And, you know, I wrote an essay or adapted Which some people Detest Donald Trump, which. A lot of people do, you know, it Putting, but it's was like, You know, some of his instincts you know, burden sharing for allies, You know, I write a degree is about how he can be inconsistent there are some things that I think are fundamental And so, you know, he would always ask you to write He always would ask implicitly three And I sent these to our team and said, Hey, whenever you craft try to do them in such a way They kind of are always on his mind. Which is like, you know, he would always want to know, So why And this I think this channels a lot who think, hey, we've got Like what are you know what? There's a real even diplomatic engagement, So it's important but also for the president to explain Why do we care? What are our vital interests Then he would also ask, you know, Back to burden sharing. You know, what the United States brings but of course, how we can partner a team of strategic partners to share the burden and to do a lot of the fighting jihadist terrorist organizations You know, in Syria or in the campaign And then, you know, then and then finally he said, you know, Right? And you can So these are all valid. These are all valid questions, And it was my job. It's not my job to force a briefing. It wouldn't work with me anyway, you know. To force like a comprehensive briefing. It was my job to adapt to the way And I knew as a historian that presidents They structure their advisory And there are advantages I mean, one of the greatest scholars and presidential leadership the late Alexander George, He was a fantastic human being. But his work is is really sound, as is the the Princeton scholar So I'd I've written quite a bit about this as I was studying history North Carolina and to inform my writing And so, you know, I came in I'm not going to get Donald Trump method of communication. It's my job to adapt to How did you get fired? Hey, you know the good old fashioned No, you're not by tweet. Not by tweet. The tweet followed people, Had some really direct conversations, And, you know, I think what brought it about is, I did get kind of used up with him, but You know, I, I remembered when I had written about I wrote about how a lot of Lyndon actually said this he took to maintain my influence I just had to tell the president And of course, that begs the question, what the heck good is your influence So I recognized it for me what he wanted to hear, that would be But in doing so, I really talk about the president's and how he can change his mind. But after he does, Having to change his mind, One of the services I provided. You know, to to to President you know, the guy So so I was getting used up And then, of course, there were all those who were attacking And I described the events that led up I had with the conversation One morning after President Trump and I said, Hey, give me a date and a. Date meaning your. Date for my exit, you know, And I told the president, who do you think And I would give him some names. And he'd say, Why do you think that John? And I said, if you trust him, if you value You're going to get this straight. He's asking you about Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. It was that awkward. No, it wasn't. Also from. His eating a cheeseburger. For lunch. What's happening? You know, in fact, initially, what. Had the conversation because I knew you know, there's all these games in the West Wing of the White House. And I think there were members he wanted me out again and they thought they And the way to control him was to kind of meet me to information to him, I don't think that works Because he's reflexively contrary. And if you if you go to him and say, hey, everybody agrees Do, I mean, he's likely Just just to spite everybody. So so in the presentation that strained my relationship So they were looking to to replace me I think somebody who who would be more Well, they didn't get that. They got they got John Bolton, I mean, I'm tempted to say a poetic and I was watching. no, no. I mean, I respect Ambassador Bolton. He's you know, I was probably, you know, from foreign policy perspective, perspective, You know, and and and I just But but but again, I guess I felt like that jobs job I was it was my duty to the president So I told the president, with whoever you select. And I did that. And the last chapter is entitled You alluding to the end of a marathon and it's the period of time after which, In a very cordial phone And and And we did actually get a lot done you might recall in that And and and the attempted and his daughter using a banned nerve And and we were putting together And the president chose in part of the closing of the the expulsion of scores of undeclared And remember, I remember the closure of the San of 2017 and also the expulsion of a lot So a lot of the story in the book to make these tough decisions, you know, he still had this idea and he disliked because he thought to come to that entente, which was never But but but, you know, after I got fired where we were and had a smooth handoff You get fired. Then the phone call with the president, and have that go. Yeah, that's good. So relieved. Yeah. So what? My wife, Katie, was working at the Catholic Diocese of Richmond, She would go down there when when I when I called her and and, Cry because I think. It was just relief of like, hey, It was a really sad sadness. But also, you know, it was also kind of you know, the kind of the maelstrom of of You know, I served in the Army, you know, You're driving away from the White House you know, because I was leaving that I felt like I was leaving halfway this tugging, feeling it, knowing And, you know, I felt extremely privileged in our army extraordinarily rewarding, teams that really take in which the man or woman next who's willing to give everything, that's very difficult to replicate, And and so, yeah, it was an emotional time and but emotional I mean, mainly I think you know, gratitude for the opportunity you know. And secondly, you know, maybe a little bit of disappointment, disappointment disappointment that I couldn't have forged maybe a a more harmonious relationship who I had frictions with and then a disappointment that is consequential, where you feel like So yeah, it was But but again, Having had the opportunity I believe you said write something. Don't write Yeah, it was it was. Fine with where this was going. And you still you still have No, I think so. You know, I think so. And I'll tell you that the book for the book, It's You know, I mean, I think what's I think the way most people view is because of how polarized we are You know, he he's he could say some pretty But what I found as I was doing is that oftentimes the reaction Can be. Just as bad He did, you know, So so it is this. Centripetal forces that are spinning and I think has many people in one camp Donald Trump can do nothing that's good or he does everything. You know, So In fact, I was kind. Of my way that my. Conversations with my editor, I thought. Maybe everybody is just going to hate because it's not going to be As you mentioned. And I appreciate you saying and it's not It's just my well, from my perspective, in the note to readers up front that I've been a consumer And I always approach these books with And I expect as they look at my perspective Could you please speak to how you see U.S. India relationships going forward under So if President Trump gets reelected Yeah, because I believe the relationship And I write in the book the quad format, which is the U.S., and how we strengthen the relationship and India, a course that of George W Bush and Condoleezza after the nuclear agreement You know, Republicans Democrats now have, But the reason why I think it's the of how vast India's capacity is in But also because, you know, and its potential, the way India goes is kind of the way and if India can succeed in the areas of human security, health security, energy security, you know, and water the world will succeed with, with the cooperation with us countries, will be applicable And so I think it is going into the next century, but it has its limits about how we worked to align our efforts and and I worked with with to the people Minister Jaishankar and Ajit Doval, I write at the end about a long walk after dinner at my house, And you know, he had read the leaks, they get ready to get, Leak that you're leaving. You know, so that had already happened. And so I was saying, okay, So it was the night before Trump fired me. And and so we were reflecting on our on our relationship, especially around the threat and its increasing really, And then, of course, as India would learn soon, soldiers bludgeoning Indian soldiers So there was a very strong alignment And the alignment vis a vis Pakistan, remember is surrounded You know, and and so in recent months, years is the limits to which we can move toward maybe in a real alliance between us. And that has a lot to do Right. And and and Mr. Jaishankar wrote a book, The Indian Way, and that India's not going to be This is part partly generational, and a legacy and the long relationship But I think the reluctance we've seen on the side of India schizophrenic nature of of Indian leaders where they're afraid Right. And and I. Think that after the disastrous withdrawal I think Indian leaders locked up Who's got her back? The United States is gone. They're out of their out of Central They just left Afghanistan I've got a hostile China and Pakistan. Who do I hedge with, Right. Russia is the only one the behaviors of states So that's that's a limit in terms go with our alliances, And then I think also, you know, the Hindu or a cause for concern among among And and the hope that that that doesn't you know, violence maybe even inside of India really derail a lot of the progress that India is making in the area But that's a long answer. Your question. I wrote about it considerably in the book. I also write about India in in the book survey of the of the international And and but I'm a big believer I think that we have to not push too hard and let it happen naturally. It being a alignment of efforts Your perspective and your knowledge is I'm going to ask you this Your concerns about this election, wins and again, I'm going to ask you Yeah. Okay. So so my concerns, I think, with Donald too soft on Right. And and in the book, I, I write about the dissonance that Donald Trump how he holds opposing views in his head I often tried along with others in a way that allowed him again, and to put in place his his own foreign So to give you just an example, in in burden sharing, you know, but Right. Because if you're if your allies defense is going to be stronger, But then when he crosses over Where he thinks, well, which means invest the equivalent we're not going to defend you or rushing I think that's and actually against what he really wants to achieve, Another example would be through strength, I mean, I think he really does understand that it's a heck of a lot cheaper And your ability You know, your ability to demonstrate to a potential enemy accomplish their objectives But he's skeptical about U.S. joint force for example, in places you name it, where we are abroad. But of course, it's the presence as part of an alliance that they can accomplish their objectives. And and you are right about our trip that as we reflected not only on Pearl Harbor, centripetal offensive that pushed us out that that you know, he would recognize that it's a heck of a lot harder to fight to regain admission to a theater Right. And and preferably deter So, you know, it just I guess the thing to be concerned about, another President Trump, would be some of those inconsistencies What concerns you with Kamala Well, I would be concerned of some of the Biden policies The Biden administration has, And there's been there have been with what I would regard as Trump's better decisions especially on China and countering and deterring other various forms including cyber espionage and so forth, You know, in the South strength in some of the alliances I mean, I think the the and it's additive to the degree even much, much stronger with South Korea government versus the moon government. And then also with Japan I mean, I could go on a lot of positive The the negative aspects of the Biden they tried to reverse Trump's policies And I think this is what we have We can no longer afford his or her foreign policy mainly Right. Instead, what are the real value of these policies. And I'm thinking, as the reversal of the policy toward Iran, to try to conciliate Iran, the Iran nuclear deal, The JCPOA, you know, reminded me of the movie, you know, where they're trying to link Stop trying to act like Bernie's alive, and it but in doing this, sanctions enforcement, of about $100 billion into Iran's coffers. That mainly went to the largely went which then, of course, were transferred the hostage Shehabi militias in Iraq, Hezbollah, Hamas And so I believe I believe that that policy has been destructive to the interests and destructive So I think a reversal of a continuation of the Biden approach I think would I think in many ways the Biden ministration that was behind the Abraham Accords The other area no specific policies would be in defense, you know, and in I think the big lessons of the massive have not been internalized And if Vice President Harris is elected, I hope that she would effect a change The Biden administration's defense for inflation, and we're coping with a bow And we have some real capacity issues Part of our recruiting effort, has to do with the degree to which that are not core to the mission and maybe also efforts, within the military that are destructive I think a focus on the mission is needed and I think we need to increase to deter conflict, address that includes, But it's also our defense industrial base, And many of our critical supply chains, have become reliant that are controlled And so what we need is we need an approach that really strengthens and protects our national security and other forms of espionage And we need investments in making our for efficiency, And then finally, I think this has been a real foot shot I mean, a real missed opportunity. Because in constraining, for example, us production and transit export of of natural gas, we have actually delayed the transition emitting sources of energy, We have empowered our adversaries. I mean, the Biden administration and then greenlighted Nord Stream two. You know, and you know, to to lift the moratorium that the Biden for LNG export facilities to help solve maybe even drive the cost of natural gas that a little bit, pay down our debt I mean, we have a lot of gifts. And this could also, of course, reduce carbon emissions, in my view, than Russia does, So or Iran for that matter. So anyway, I think that, you know, others will meet that supply And then of course, we want to continue in sources of green energy And and then and then you have solar We also need, by the way, massive Energy demand If we do need we do need to bring and we want to apply some advanced to to a reinvigorated industrial base and your artificial intelligence intelligence is driving energy that's going to really strain And because we're so decentral ized a massive effort by the federal government of state and local governments what I think is a coming energy crisis With this election coming up, gosh, Kamala Harris has said in her cabinet or her inner If she reached out to you and said, would you want to come back and be serious, Because you do feel a duty Well, You know, I would serve in any administration and help the elected president and and, you know, and help put into place you know, that advance American security, and our influence in the world And we we didn't really address I think an extremely dangerous So, I mean, I do feel like it's my duty But the question would be, you know, I mean, we've I think that both parties have become how would you know how does it work to be, you know, the person who comes in from, You know, I didn't vote the whole time And that means my whole life because I took the oath of service on And one of my heroes was George. And George Marshall because he thought it was very important in place between the military So I'm not a political person. I'm not really aligned with either party, it would be my duty to serve, like I did, you know, the the previous six I served briefly Also, which You know. I was I was on. I was on the board of visitors at West Point and and was So we've got a bunch of questions. We're we're going to whip through these from the audience. What can we do as individuals to promote constructive dialog and discourse to work towards creating respectful, constructive solutions Well, what a great question. I just do what we're doing now. Just have a conversation You know, take a kind of a clear eyed we've learned from recent history that make sense to to help secure And I don't think we can wait I don't know what anybody thinks I mean, I mean, so you know, that bring people together Were we can all make a difference. I mean, it's in the classroom I'm privileged to teach it at Stanford. You know we you know, what it means You know, I really I think we all need you know, And I write in the book a term I borrowed from my dear friend He's written great books. One of them, A Sense of the Enemy, empathy. And essentially what he's arguing for any of the complex challenges or revenues we're facing internationally especially rivals, adversaries and to try to understand better, and in that case, you know, the ideology I think we can start with facts. You know, a lot of times, you know. Most of the most vitriolic conversations And if you notice that, you know, and the people who know this Those who are most adamant You know, so so I just think you know, for long format conversations to have these kind of respectful And think just, you know, we have to stop You know I mean it's so it's just Everybody wants to do, you. Know, is to try to try because they disagree with it And I think that also transcending kind of this kind of toxic interaction between, you know, new form, you know, various forms of identity and sexism that I think, again, And and and finally, you know we should be and who we are as a people And and I do believe that we are seeing, the result of what you might call of self-loathing in our universities I think, affected by various theories that have become a dominant voice Now, these approaches to history, of history of and teach people that really impersonal You don't really have any agency. The only way that you can effect Everything down. I just don't think But that's what has become dominant. And and I think that we should encourage to question these sorts of orthodoxies. Look at the historical record and and and also recognize, of this country, while also recognizing Right. And and to kind of agree with our founders who said that our republic will require I think what our young people today filled with this orthodoxy Right. And and and when you rob people of agency, you leave them with a toxic of anger Right. So, you know, I'm inspired and by Clinton of course, I mean George And what what he what he said and The America Eats which was a pretty bleak period of time I mean, you know, We had the resignation of a president. We had stagflation, We had a hostage crisis in Iran, So he said, if you don't like the effect, and the lyrics or something like this, my first class sheet you protest this But this is the important line situation So I think that we should recognize how we're governed in this country. And we should be proud about that you know, the gifts of freedom You know, I think my service in places have maybe heightened my, you know, my appreciation, gratitude Well said. A few more minutes, thoughts, whip And this is an hour long response, in about 30 seconds? What do we do about Ukraine? What is the best end game? I think provide Ukraine And to win means So first of all, establish an objective Ukraine that can defend itself and end is back on the path to economic, back on the To do that, and, sufficient capacity first, a range of capabilities against their population, And the second would be to restore it as much of the territory as they can by those battlefield results to Vladimir but to negotiate a settlement I think this idea that you can just freeze is nonsensical. Wars don't end that way. You know, I think we have this kind and the Dayton Accords, and we forget that against the Serbs that set conditions So the political outcome in what the Ukrainians, Ukrainians And I think we should stop meting out with the full range of capabilities, I mean, really 31 tanks. I mean, you know, I mean, if we were Ecuador, I could see But I mean, I think we should and of course, I'm an armored guy, try to try to of a problem No, but but of course, there are a whole range You know, think of everybody that Donald Sutherland says, you know, a Is what What was the most memorable. Part of your job? Anything you miss. I miss the people. I'll tell you. I hope it comes through in the book. Raj. I mean, I probably laughed more in that Laughed then cried. Yeah, but then suddenly, so was a bit of But also we really did have a sense of We were fortunate to be together I mean, what I, what about about, you know, encountering a number of obstacles, and deal with personalities and characters What's going on in our society. Another obstacle, the big off score, like the adversaries But but really how we work together and the kind of, you know, the kind of collaboration staff, really across the department and with like minded partners kind of club of from like minded countries, So, yeah, so I guess, you know. We. Really we really I actually did actually talk with him this past week was kind of and he said to me, he said, you know, I was your laughter coming. Out of going out of the the National. Security Advisors Office. And and because I think we were all just and to be able to work on on and have such an important mission How do you order food at the White House? You just pick up the phone. You know, I didn't figure it out at first because you only get I got. Hired on a monday, flew back with They had two Osprey aircraft where I packed a bag, flew back So for those first few days, I try to avoid the word chaos because it's so prevalent But yeah. It was kind of chaotic My my predecessor had left, There was still kind of the transition new people coming in. And it was just so it was kind of chaotic. And I remember the first I would say, well, jeez, And I look at the clock. It's like 5:30 p.m., you know? So fortunately, Colin Powell, he invited me to his house for lunch. I ate everything in sight. Everything. So he was And he said, I need to have you ever more You're not. But but I discovered, you know, after the first couple of weeks had the job, There's a there's a You Can just order up a sandwich, you know, go down and take a break Lunchtime conversation with somebody. So which I try to do. So it's a fantastic little facility there and and, you know, have less and yeah, so I did Okay. As we wrap up as we wrap it up, You like the Grateful Dead. I saw you as a deranged rant concert. What's your what's it What, man? My gosh. You know. Hey, so I'll tell you, I mean that Kara you know, I mean, back in the day, every Led Zeppelin album for sure, you know, to to, you know, you know, the most intense tunes You know, maybe mix mixing up some James Thorogood And some Nazareth. Heavy, but some heavy metal, Going for for sports but then I'm also and you know, you know, folks like Natalie Merchant, Sheryl Crow But my, my new thing because I've got, and I'm really starting to understand I appreciate it. You know, using I didn't know Will tell you. Who is a very talented musician here, would want to highlight to all of you Okay. And this is This is his band that he put together. And what I love about this band But what they have done is blended from all over the world. The musicians in the band from all over the world. So the band is a metaphor the violence and vitriol in this world And I believe that music helps than any other art form, We can all we can And and and then also, you know, in our common identity as Americans. These are all extraordinarily patriotic. Talented. Musicians What's going on in the world. But but again, it's a celebration of art and how art can transcend But it's a celebration of, and the greatest strengths of our country. They often play at the Guild Theater, or you playing this at the Stanford Park Okay, So check them out and and I get to I get I get to introduce them It's kind of confounding to people what is this bald washed up general doing? You know, introducing this band. But but I. Really believe that music, music you know, a lot of the that we're facing today. You are certainly Our thanks to everyone here listening on YouTube Our thanks, of course, to General H.R. McMaster, author of At War with Ourselves And we want to thank the Travis Family Thank you all very much. Enjoy your day And secondly. Thanks for all thanks to all of you. Thank you. Thanks.