Water levels in games. Most people hate movement or the often mischievous most ruthless gameplay tortures, Just stop and look around. Water levels are usually real chill. And they Eventually, some developers came along players with these water levels when Abzu, Endless Ocean, Beyond Blue, these come to mind. But let's pull it back to Aquanaut's Holiday wasn't the but I'm pretty sure it was the And so a series was spawned, and the games So let's climb aboard our submersible, and Aquanaut's Holiday is a series of games created by Japanese developer Artdink. Three games were released on the PlayStation 1, and a fourth and final entry came All of them focus on piloting a submersible, marine life, mapping the ocean topography, and There are no enemies, no time limits, no pressure. Aside from their simple setups and mechanics, from calm and relaxing, to slightly Of course, that all depends, I guess, on underwater expanses that sometimes For me, that's what ended up drawing I could go and what bizarre sights I would Now, you may or may not have but they've been around for quite Founded in 1985, their early games and though they've branched out and created simulation always seems to play at least So for this video, I'm not only series, but I'm also going to dive into they've made some pretty Especially during their I love these weird, experimental It feels like developers themselves were 2D to 3D afforded them, and they delivered these be nothing more than, "hey, look at all this But let's take a step back from the Artdink's early days. I'm not going developed. There are like over 60 of them But I'll touch on the ones that I feel best The first game they ever made translated to "Take the A-Train" or just A-Train. This series is Artdink's bread and butter. Kind of that Artdink just keeps churning out sequels especially during their prime when they was more experimental, or in other A-Train, at its core, is a a focus on transportation in the The series is still ongoing. A new game was released for Windows and The first A-Train was released in 1985 developed by Fujitsu. Good luck finding I'm checking out the Famicom which includes such quality Wow! That's a pretty banging title track honestly. One theme you're going to this video is that Artdink's sound You might be wondering though, how do you for PC with a keyboard interface and translate Well, just look at all these Laying and deleting tracks, building train stations. There's a Luckily, you can bring up this cheat sheet fumbled back and forth between the game screen and Speaking of the actual game screen, This A icon is your train. These lines think these are other trains? But I'm not sure. I connected the tracks and destroying it, and I got a game over. So I dunno. Despite its age, there's a lot of functionality line, micromanaging your transportation system There's also a day and night cycle. That's During the day you control everything manually, and the game just kind of rips control away Anyway, we'll check in on this series throughout Another long-running, but not quite as prolific, series that Artdink developed in Set in the year 1469, you take the role of an at least what was known of the world to You buy ships, hire crew members, gather The Atlas originally came out in but I'm playing the Super Famicom version, The The Atlas did get a Western release which is pretty cool, if you can read German. I don't have a lot to say about read a fair amount of Japanese, the I got that the main idea is to travel around You can build fleets and hire crew, even get you hire them. You can also find treasure by It's neat. And the music is of course excellent. There are several sequels, including The The series was then rebooted in the 2000s with Neo Atlas 1469, was originally but got a Steam release in the West Neo Atlas has the same basic but ups the presentation for modern platforms. So if this looks like something you'd be into, then you've got a couple ways to One final series that I feel really defined an RPG series, which began in 1993 on the PC-98. Lunatic Dawn has more in common with CRPGs than the story-driven The first 3 games are actually available Steam. However, it only supports the English translation patches though They're very much inspired by the Ultima series, with time limits on quests, day-night It's all very simplistic, even more so than I checked out the third game in the and there's also a PS1 exclusive entry that in depth into Lunatic Dawn a bit later, There are a bunch of other games they developed Panzer Division, Eikan wa Kimi ni: a high-school baseball management one of their few early games that But I feel like A-Train, The Atlas, and Lunatic studio as well as hint at the diversity that Anyway, this brings us to 1995 and or Aquanaut's Holiday in June of that year. It came out just 6 months after and 3 months before the North American Aquanaut's Holiday would eventually but not until mid to late 1996. Maybe by that time, it was a year too late to environment, because a lot of Western critics The game was a big hit in Japan though, were pretty decent numbers, especially had only shipped around 2 million Aquanaut's Holiday was the brainchild team simply wanted to create a off the real-time 3D graphics The setup is simple, and I think I'll because I just like the way it's written. You are the world's foremost marine explorer! globe. As the senior researcher of you're at the pinnacle of your profession. Because of you, the seas and all life within them discoveries have molded the way scientists But finally, your hectic pace has caught up beyond their limits. The stressful schedule and too much. You're overworked, you've had it, and The perfect chance presents itself offers you a unique mission. He asks if you'd be willing to survey an unknown section of You'll work at your own pace and inclination, to's" or "must have's." No interference. Take command of the Holiday, an with sole access to the institute's your being as you begin exploring Whatever happens next... is up to you! Sounds enticing. But although Aquanaut's Holiday bills there's something slightly off-kilter right This opening cutscene, the dreamy imagery, moody music. Does it really invite feelings As soon as you start a new game you're of the aforementioned underwater There's no tutorial, no dialogue, nothing Controlling the submersible is simple. The square descends, X moves forward, and You have a compass in the top middle of the little circle around the outside shows The top left icon shows the speed at which one shows your current depth. As far as I could As you begin drifting farther you'll run across all manner of aquatic life. Pressing the shoulder buttons In the instruction manual, it says All I could find was that sometimes certain creatures move slightly, but there may be And so the point is to explore, travel the ocean, marvel at the sea life, and map One of the biggest technical disadvantages So as you're exploring, the edges of mountain ranges will just pop into view. The Aquanaut's Holiday tries its best to shades of blue and transparency in the console's life cycle to really You can sort of forgive it, I guess, you'd probably have pretty limited visibility, but I don't think the land is just The area you're dropped in to explore is surprisingly large. And you have access to Pressing the select button will cycle lower right corner of the screen. One is while it's displayed will teleport you back But let's say you've traveled pretty far out. Maybe you don't want to have to start from This is where that other icon comes in. Pressing start while this is displayed will You can set up to 256 of these. that makes them pretty much limitless. Back at base, you have a menu with a few the starting point at the base again, As you explore, more of the map will your launch point buoys and choose to jump Selecting a buoy shows you the time it was track of things. And the most recent buoy Back on the menu screen, there's also a game. You can also change a few settings, like an oval one for more immersion, I guess. I don't Finally, there's the build reef option. Here, you Pressing different face buttons when setting the blue, and red. You want to alternate these colors and create different patterns to This small bar here shows you how build with. As your reef attracts more life, You can set these blocks at different attracting fish and creating This is actually the goal of the game. this bar at the bottom of screen fills It's a neat little diversion that breaks up the main attraction So those are all of the mechanics of only tells half the story, because the From the moment you're unceremoniously forced to your own devices outside of the underwater the unnatural blue staring Unnatural was the first word that came to mind and survey the environment. Funny for a Further enhancing that feeling is the sound bubbling like you might expect, the first sounds Then, utter silence. The strange noises that the Holiday makes when accelerating or ascending Eventually you'll run into life. Bumping into any creatures makes them squeak, which again is just very Then there are the sonar sounds or just make up your own rhythms to pass the time. But every once in a while, you'll A faint drumbeat, that grows louder, more Scattered across this ocean are unexplainable sights and structures. And sound is Drumbeats, chimes, and other odd tones are And the first few times you start the vast quiet expanse of blue, As you stumble upon these sights, you're for why they're here, but of course, It's just something that you find, look at, and then continue on, and that's I'm making this sound very dramatic, all whimsical and otherworldly. And there For a bit. Once you wrap your head around the gameplay, discover your first strange sight, and then you start to realize that these interesting Unfortunately, a lot of Aquanaut's Holiday boils with the terrain popping in, and the Often you'll hear strange noises, but not be able to pinpoint what All it really ends up leading I've seen screenshots of things other but I played Aquanaut's Holiday for almost 4 hours I heard a whole lot of weird noises but they ended up leading me nowhere. There's not a lot of design to the a mountain will block your path or a trench but most of it is relatively flat and empty. Later games in the series would go on to here and push more clever design and progression, Director Kazutoshi Iida would and call it the worst game that he ever created. I think he's being a bit harsh there, but demo for the PlayStation, rather than a full game. It's still a haunting experience that's worth If you temper your expectations, able to pull off such a large world to Before we bid farewell to the first game in up to in the late 90s, there was a, I guess released a year later in Japan only called The reason I'm not devoting a full section of the same as the first game with a smaller map and Memories of Summer 1996 was billed full on sequel. And yeah, I think the There might be more aquatic life around but yeah, it's pretty much It's got a very nostalgic Let's check in on the old A-Train series, why don't we? By the time we roll Artdink was already on the fourth game with This was also the first game in the series to be of several languages when you start a new game. You know what? I for one am glad a game distinguish between English and American a consideration that seems to have You can also choose what country to play in, which Clearly, the visuals are a huge step and there are also things like The atmosphere was the star of the I don't think my mind is organized enough But I could play A-Train and just check the changing weather, see the as day turns to night, and vibe to There are 12 tracks here that you can all give the game a different feel The UI is a bit of a mess. but then couldn't figure out how to close it or After a bit, I got two train lines running, but apparently I didn't, so they're I guess they're just stuck like that. Forever. God, I suck at these games. I said I'd get back to Lunatic so here's Lunatic Dawn III, released As opposed to the first two games, which large view and focusing on a party of characters, Lunatic Dawn III opts for a diagonal and one or two companions as you explore a You're dropped into a town and speak to NPCs, take on quests from Though I'd hold off on any battling for a bit, such as this bug and snake right outside the The world is procedurally generated each save right away if you get a good town layout I didn't know that at first and an opening quest to find somebody's missing wife. She ended up being in the house right next and I got a hefty amount of starting gold but then I died without saving when When I started again, I was spread out town and quests like killing bandits or delivering an item Anyway, Lunatic Dawn III may have been Ultima fans looking for another for the next entry in that series, However, there was a PlayStation exclusive Odyssey. Unlike the free-roaming, presents itself through mostly still images Towns are presented through menu screens, your characters are represented as a boot on You still get the diagonal down view and instead of fighting in real-time, like in you transition to a battle screen utilizing an active time bar that reminded me way to knock enemies backwards on the timeline Anyway, though all of this might seem playing Odyssey way more than III. The and more laid-back approach in general just I ended up sinking several Odyssey just enjoying the simple story of taking on random side quests, training I still got my [__] kicked in fights, but I could see throwing this on every just picking up a few quests, trying I just wish it had an English patch of out and experience its vibe. It's you're going to be able to just bumble And I think you're gonna develop carpal tunnel all the time to use Google Translate. There's one more Lunatic Dawn game on PS2 to After finishing up work on Aquanaut's Kazutoshi Iida went on to direct Tail of the Sun, I remember renting this one from the video store back when I first got my PlayStation The Flintstones-esque character and that bizarre skybox. As a 10 year old, I Now, I can appreciate it's disarming design a bit who needs to go around and eat various fruits and like strength, jumping, lung capacity for There are other human characters and like these goddamn birds. Dying isn't the end though, you'll just choose a and their physical appearance changes depending Like Aquanaut's Holiday, there isn't much in the way of explanation or hand holding. Just There are also several weird, inexplicable There's a day-night cycle and your they stand whenever they get exhausted. but the Western port of the game added Gotta keep that blistering action going. The goal is to eventually become mammoths and use their tusks to And there are different endings you which attribute you've increased the most. Anyway, as I said, I can appreciate what this it as a kid, but it's still not something that It does still pull a visceral sort of reaction it all those years ago and still remember that to come to grips with its bizarre mechanics and It's almost, but not quite, a core memory for seemingly forgotten PlayStation games that Cool Boarders 2, RayStorm, and Ace Combat 2. I know Tail of the Sun has its fans though, Artdink also developed some puzzle games for the which has the very simple field at 90 degree angles to guide colored This is something that's probably been done As the stages continue, obstacles are introduced, and the at-first basic rotation mechanic The soundtrack is also super this one for way longer than I really The other big puzzle game, and another is No One Can Stop Mr. Domino. The premise and mechanics here are uh, but its actually very simple at its heart. Though if you jump into the game without you'll probably be left scratching your head. This is another one that I remember seeing all the but I never ended up trying it out You play as Mr or Miss Domino and traverse with tons of objects, distractions, The domino moves automatically, but movement speed with up and down, Pressing the face buttons leaves behind dominos, of which you only have a certain What you're meant to do is get dominos to fall on these trick panels to have Activate all the trick panels to complete few opportunities to figure out the best stages isn't too difficult. At least in the Every stage can be done in a perfect and keeping the domino chain going while I'm not clever enough to figure There are also panels that slow you down, send you back to There's a score at the top of the screen, and completing stages quickly I was mostly impressed by and of course the soundtrack. There No One Can Stop Mr Domino is a charming puzzle especially those early stages in Katamari bugs, and other tiny household objects. I can see some people getting really moves and get that perfect layout to An addicting little gem for sure. Now we move onto the big one, and by big or even a game that many people even know about, but it's a game that I think attempts to fully I'm talking about 1997's Kaze no Notam. That's A NoTAM is actually an acronym that are many different kinds of Notam for There's even NOTAM for flocks of birds. so Kaze no Notam is a NoTAM for windy conditions, as the game's anglicized Kaze no Notam is built on a very simple premise, navigate a hot air balloon through different much like in real life, you don't have direct You can only adjust the balloons height a burner to ascend or X to interact is up to the whims of the wind, which directions and at different Kaze no Notam bills itself as a relaxation prominently on the side tray of the disc However, what Kaze no Notam actually is, There are three game modes, The first task is Fly In, where you map with markers that you throw from the hot air view and pressing circle will throw the markers. You only have 3 of them in your as close to the center of the target as possible. The next task is Delta where you triangular formation and just try to Finally there's Wolf Hunt. Several other, specific points on the map, and it's your them to bring them down. You only need When you choose your task, you which each represent the past, Draft Valley is the idyllic past, windswept fields dotted with farms and windmills. Windy City is, you guessed it, a cityscape with but there are more rural areas to explore as And lastly there's Breezy Earth, an almost alien, futuristic landscape with a floating city You can also change the time of day This doesn't really affect anything Beyond the Tasks, there's also a mode called objectives, like play Fly in Mode and get a marker play delta and create a triangle over 30 And that's it for gameplay modes. The tasks You only unlock the next round by other than that there's Kaze no Notam's visuals are very crisp with and landscape. And continuing the tradition there are strange sights to behold The different weather conditions and times of day certainly add some moody The soundtrack is the real star here though. Artdink has ever produced. And they In 2023, record label Amidst, released the and I encourage everyone to give I missed the original run of the Internet as well as several Tokyo and I finally managed to grab It definitely wasn't the retail price of Everything about and related to Kaze I don't know. There's really no words for The cover of Kaze no Notam was illustrated of the most iconic album covers of His simple yet colorful style was city pop, which isn't really a genre The complete package of Kaze no Notam So as the catchphrase asked, did I luxuriate No, not at all. Look, on the surface, yes, this game is charming the basic mechanics, it's all there, but there I think the most glaring issue is You see, in each of the task modes you are bombarded with limitations. First of timer for the game and it is the keeper Fuel is constantly running out, not but also when you're just drifting around. greatly reduces the meter as well. And if you run completely powerless to do anything, So while the game encourages you to all of the flowery language in its packaging and luxuriate in the wind, the problem If you don't bump into anything, a tall where you're going, you've got about 6 or 7 So unless you intentionally ignore around exploring the map, you don't have all On top of that, there are out of the maps. If you drift too far And remember you can't actually control just screw you over. I've had the wind at every Which led to an out of bounds area with get farther and farther away until the task Now, I can see having these limitations on but there should have been a free some way to at least bounce yourself It's such a fatal flaw that the game absence completely undermines Kaze Also the PlayStation's limited draw experience. It worked in Aquanaut's but I'm up in the air on a clear day. and I've got buildings and mountain ranges Anyway, it's a real shame about Kaze no Notam. enjoy things, but I only end up walking away Ah, so Kaze no Notam was a big Artdink developed a game that ended and ultimately became my favorite And that game is Aquanaut's Holiday 2, This time around, directorial duties a relative newcomer at Artdink who had handled While Aquanaut's Holiday and Aquanaut's Holiday: Aquanaut's Holiday 2 pushes the simple the right directions to make this feel You still take control of a submersible, The controls have been completely overhauled meter on the right side of the screen that Tapping up increases your forward momentum, while The submersibles speed is then set adjustments. Tapping down will stop you while tapping up will do the Ascending and descending is now controlled with environment's maximum depth as well as your own R1 and R2 move the camera itself up around independently of where your craft is but does become more intuitive and gives You can still drop buoys to act as the Triangle button. You're able to name each You'll still see a variety of sea life as you from the largest mammals to the smallest fish. And you'll of course still stumble but now that large empty map is broken And you can bring up the map at any point also check on the buoys you've placed, but will instantly warp you to that location. This caught me out several times while playing, and I ended up having to travel back to where I At first, I thought having access to the map mysterious feeling that the first game Even though you can see the this doesn't give you the complete Instead of the mostly flat, barren environment of long trenches and valleys, underwater The environments are actually crafted in around or through. It creates more of a feeling Maybe you'll want to explore a corner but there's a large island chain in your way, or journey all the way around, and who knows Speaking of progression, they've done away with have a log book of sea life and objects Filling out the log book requires you accomplished by pressing Square to lock moves your sub along with whatever which helps if you run across some You don't have to awkwardly swing the sub Pressing X breaks lock-on, so you done scanning. And it only takes like a You still have the four sonar sounds as well. shoulder buttons from ascending and looking Again, some creatures react to these, but I for the sonar. I'm sure there are some Anyway, the better designed areas, the map, the along with the list of sea life and objects not just floating around aimlessly, Now you have little goals and objectives, could spend hours exploring the first or you could bloodhound your way to a new The visuals are a huge step up. There's not the poor draw distance, but Artdink better transparencies, different Other effects such as sunbeams when you're close to the surface and models and textures overall are much more The sound design is also a lot so its easier to track down strange noises I actually found a bunch of weird stuff go very far without hearing some strange noise But there are still things that will require I ended up playing Aquanaut's Holiday 2 for hours to check one more thing off my list or find I've mentioned the word "progression" a couple of times now, but there's really move through these different biomes and find new And each area really does feel unique. The shades of blue, green, and even pitch black Each is home to different creatures. the starting base location, you'll The Green Nest, which is a river Past the Plateau of the Far East is and is home to the first whales you'll There's a narrative here too, but not the kind Eventually, much farther into your that don't connect logically on your map, In these places, you'll encounter aquatic and it all leads to a rather dramatic conclusion. So while it's not a traditional kind here in the environmental storytelling. deliver on. Something unique to the medium One of my favorite elements of a video game explore without getting in my way or telling I like filling out maps. I like Aquanaut's Holiday 2 is just so full look at this footage or even play the game "Why's this Dungeon Chill [__] I don't know, man. It just hits for just spend the last almost 1500 But yeah, after playing Aquanaut's become one of my top PlayStation I feel the same level of awe and respect Lagoon for that video. It's a game that I Aquanaut's Holiday 2 is a wonderful experience, in Japan, there's so little text that you need to Sure you won't be able to read the fish names but that probably just adds to the mystery. To leave off this section of the video, I want the key moments while playing when I realized that I was exploring an area called Depth of the Heart, when I began to hear odd Looking up and to the right from my current cliffside. But it was an opening unlike Whenever I had found passages forward prior breaks in underwater mountain This looked manmade. Ancient. Entering the opening, the sounds became louder, echoing off the stone walls. Patterns The passageway turned at hard, artificial, to the natural twists and turns of the The sounds changed suddenly into drips and drops, with other odd tones playing, within a finger's The passage forward ended, but the path continued strange almost tribal faces carved into the stone brighter as I rose, I eventually emerged into There was no explanation for what the map or conversation with an NPC uncanniness of that clearly manmade All I had was my own experience of it, and so And that's just a small taste of how The PlayStation 2 era feels like Artdink's and kind of ugly. Not to say that PS2 games can't be beautiful. but for some reason, Artdink just didn't fully The A-Train series continued with A-Train 6, I don't know. At this point, the As I mentioned, city-building and the level of customization and Some people may look at this blank map, it may set their imaginations alight with all the But when I look at all this stuff, I just see a [__] nightmare. It's scarier Speaking of nightmares, check out the PS2 There's probably a good reason the Look at this title screen. That dude's face. These character models are horrifying. This Metal Gear Solid 2. Lunatic Dawn: Tempest. There is no god. Lunatic Dawn: Tempest uses the same setup as kid who's been abandoned by their and the cycle continues because you also The main character's name is just change it. Turns out you're a girl who was Anyway, you wake up after falling unconscious mines. I mean, probably carbon monoxide Yeah, you're not an adventurer which is one of the things I find You always start off incredibly but you're not there yet. Even certain NPCs to work with you if you're not strong enough. They It reminds me of Gothic 1 in to train and build your stats before Lunatic Dawn: Tempest is mostly viewed from me a bit of Shining in the However, you travel to different static town or world map. When you you get this amazing animation of That's [__] raw. It's [__] raw. You need to work in the mines to earn but it's not free-roaming or even grid movement system, allowing you to choose You then spend your time busting up rocks. The large transparent number near the center let it fall to zero before you manage you'll pass out, and you won't get You need gold to buy items and equipment of If you try to head out into the world or into you're basically dead, just like in You need to train to increase really separates itself from the Combat is a first-person real-time affair up this icon into a shrinking circle and If you attack at just the right moment, you'll block your attack. Same for blocking. Line up the timing just right and you can parry your opponent It took some practice, funnily enough, but I had some fun with it. It seems like it throughout an entire multi-dozen hour Despite it's ugly presentation, and I did end up enjoying the early loop of getting paid, training, and But ultimately it felt like one hey, look at this weird thing. And not something It didn't grab me the same way the previous Still, a cool thing to check out. Artdink also dipped their toe into the a golf game that has probably one of I mean, as advertised, right? This was released in Europe as Mr. Golf, In keeping with Artdink's design philosophy, Playing the story mode puts you in the shoes compete in junior tournaments, and work their You control the power of your swing with the right used to it. There's also a ton of customizability Golf aficionados may understand The game looks fine for a PS2 title, but the lack of music creates this really I don't know if the sound team was on but it really could have used some of that swagger Anyway, Golful Golf is fine, but now the ultimate athletic competition, a You know it. I know it. That's right. It's time for Battle Construction Vehicles. I was born in a construction vehicle. No one can match my control. Look here! Who do you think I am? Can't beat me, youngster. Age will always prevail. Remain refined at all times. Heavy Only room for one heroine here. Crush you! [Moaning] We're hard at work again today. Out of the way! Move! Move or I'm smashing through! Ok, everyone here? Then, lets' get to work! This game is insane. It is [__] insane. I don't even know where to begin. Let's just start fighting game, but you control construction And in true Artdink fashion, the controls agile vehicles that would be conducive they're slow, heavy, lethargic, even. The goal is to damage the other vehicle to Normal attacks, for the most part, because if you're too close to your opponent, the vehicle just kind of twitches and jitters What you're really meant to do is back away and Pressing X throws up a barrier of girders around At certain moments, a circles triggers around you or your opponents vehicle. This indicates If you manage to catch an enemy in the circle, it activates a cutscene that does And the enemy can also perform them against Battle Construction Vehicles But that's not why we're All the factories around here have been Is that so? It still has nothing to do with me. You're wrong! Young master, you are the Danjuro Kongo. The ability to drive Will you just let it slumber your entire life? Master Hayato! The story in Battle Construction You take the role of Hayato Kongo, Now that his father has passed away, but he initially has no interest in construction. That is, until old man, Kazukiyo Danoura, challenges him to a battle in construction You're tough, gramps. Listen to me. You must succeed your Shut it, gramps! I left because So he's dead. Ahhh! It's still What is with the moaning? Like many things in life, I think the [Incoherent British-ness] Anyway, as Hayato, you need to gather a crew and The supporting cast are just a bunch of Things start off the rails and just continue There's homosexual romance. Here it is. When I left, I was I know that, Beth. But my feelings haven't changed, I know you do, Beth. Jake. You're wonderful. You dolt. A dog with a construction And a hidden past involving Hayato's connection Shirabe Corporation, who turns And one of the Kongo members, But there's romantic tension between Hayato and Kyoko. But they're siblings. So it's But then at the end, it's suddenly revealed that And you, Kyoko. Research your past a little. What do you think of that? What the [__]? And just so much other off the wall [__]. Is this what you mean by fair? Huh? Huh? Unfortunately, only a few cutscenes Most of them are told in this visual Not even any sound effects Just like in Golful Golf, it's so unsettling. Honestly, I'd recommend just looking up a let's they're the only worthwhile thing about this game. Kongo whelp! If you wish to continue breathing, Hey! Danoura, get the car! Get after them! From a developer with a history of strange Vehicles is the jester's hat in the back East wind wipeout! Listen up! So Artdink's PS2 days were We didn't even get a new Aquanaut's entry in the series wouldn't arrive As the PS2 era wound down, Artdink a bunch of licensed stuff from across the PS2, PSP, and Xbox 360. But it seemed like the glory game design had been all but left behind. However, the studio had one and that was Aquanaut's The Japanese title for the Aquanaut's Holiday the PS3 game, Artdink changed the Japanese title And the change in the title feels important, is a huge break from some of the core Yes, you still pilot a submersible, exploring discovering strange objects on the ocean floor, you boot up the game is that this fourth entry Cutscenes, characters, as I'll call it for shorthand, has it all. Also, for the first time since the original game, Aquanaut's Holiday was released outside of This does mean that there are English translation though. Chinese and language, and there's a pretty shoddy, Uh, but good luck affording a copy. The Aquanaut's Holiday: Hidden Memories, is one of the rarest and most valuable PS3 games. I played my trusty Japanese which I got for like 5000 yen, about 32 USD. No matter what version you play recording the PS3 is never an easy task. You see, the console has built in HDCP, High-Definition Copy Protection. And chipset. Unlike the PS4 which has an option What this means is, if you just hook your So you need to split the but not just any HDMI splitter will work. Luckily, I have one that works, but it which is what I use to record my gameplay footage. So every time I sat down to record I then deactivate and reactivate it within Oh, and Aquanauts Holiday 3 The PS3 and Xbox 360 were in this growing pains so you sometimes got games like But anyway, I managed to record the entire game and an extra bit of hardware So let's dive in. In Aquanaut's Holiday 3, you take the disappearance of a world-renowned There he is. He disappeared from a research institute known Atoll in Polynesia, after leaving on a research On assignment, you head to the base Robert Kemelman, as well as researcher and Oh, and these character portraits D-tier, foreign actors in Japan. Oh, I on Japanese variety shows re-enacting Kemelman is a no nonsense business type, who but worked his way up the corporatized ladder Jessica is a loon, but a charming theoretical concepts such as wormholes as well I gotta say, too, my Japanese reading but some details of the scientific in conversation throughout this So this was a tough one to get through at times, on the barebones language requirements needed Anyway, the base, which is nicknamed Aqua this journalist with no experience take out their research vessel, the Dolphin 2, to go pilot if you want to, figure out the whereabouts of other technologically advanced, expensive No wonder Kemelman's so worried The Dolphin vessels have their own so essentially Dolphin 2 becomes another as and Dolphin 2 often speak to each other when The controls are made more intuitive this right stick moves the Dolphin 2 forward So it's not a true, modern first-person bit of getting used to. Up on the D-pad You scan aquatic life and objects a light automatic lock-on, which The shoulder buttons are like in the first games, but and they end up playing a crucial role in Instead of just exploring on your own, the game is broken up into episodes where go on. These usually involve finding specific One of the early quests involves finding 4 the four sonar sounds equipped on the Dolphin 2, As in the earlier games, these are used to differently to the tones, but their functionality Part of Glover's research was in use of sound. He also discovered specific Later on, you'll get a quest to find you can press one of the sonar tones says style mini game where you need to These patterns start off simple, as you discover more of the singers, and that each and every singer progresses When you successfully complete a pattern, the singers have these happy animations and some They also reward you with a Are you ready for this? Memes. That's right. It's all about the memes. I mean, the game here is using the literal through imitation, linking them to its themes of But come on. Memes? Are your serious? A meme panel? There are even meme trees. So collecting memes allows you to upgrade the You can increase its speed, handling, pressing Triangle. Boost charge, batteries you can carry as well as the number So Aquanaut's Holiday 3 is broken up into but within that are navigable sub areas runs on radio signals broadcast Sonobuoys act as waypoints as well as soft you need to insert a battery. NaSU are the checkpoints from the first games, you start off with only one and you can goes for batteries, you can upgrade But the batteries and NaSu are purchased. You buy them from Kemelman for And you gain credits for every sea creature and new area you navigate to, which is This is the same as the log book from Aquanaut's away a bit too much information with its You guys think we're going to find But anyway, linking new discoveries to a credit further enhance exploration is great game design Now, missions, upgrades, areas cutscenes, dialogues. This might all seem of a departure from the earlier games' And yes, it is, but I can't help but The sonobuoy waypoint system gives the gameplay progression, building upon the satisfaction of And as with that game, I was always excited with the environmental storytelling and almost Aquanaut's Holiday 3 is more hands on in And the training wheels are taken off eventually. After you complete the first couple of the game opens up and lets you do things at your The quirky characters and almost this Aquanaut's Holiday a feeling all its own. Kisira base is a mood, helped out by the The crisp and colorful underwater environments feels distinct with its own theme and color There are some framerate dips when And I ran into some load screens while bad as some other PS360 era titles when it At least it's not brown. And This time around, there's a more well that makes the game feel more lively. There are still moments of quiet ambience, submersible creaking around you. But its Aquanaut's Holiday 3's sound and with the areas that you explore The only negative thing I have to there are still creepy and strange Even when you discover odd the story and characters always interrupt Case in point, early on you'll hear the This is actually a reference to the music box When you find it here though, while at first since Jessica informs you that it was it's quickly discovered that riptides in the water are striking the springs inside the Kind of takes away from the The greater storytelling kind of saves it though, because near that box you find the first whale of It turns out that the internal sound components there's this sentiment of the whale communicating It's a touching moment. That just a piece of junk left on the ocean floor. But Kemelman's assholery and aloofness also so it's actually an interesting little aside. So yeah, while sometimes it's annoying that every strange thing that you discover, it all The writing Aquanaut's Holiday 3 is surprisingly being an existential affair that deals transhumanism, as well as the singularity theory. William Glover's research into communication the feeding of those memes into the Dolphin it all leads to the Dolphins gaining sentience. With some incredibly heartbreaking Meanwhile, Glover was hearing a voice in his head, As you activate Glover's sonobuoys, discover that he interacted with, you'll find in hopes that some pursuer would Turns out William Glover, which came from a family of religious freaks. Anyone put themselves into a monastery or convent But Glover, or the man who came was more interested in pursuing the voice. He researched communication, and eventually He established the base, which he nicknamed The main character also begins hearing this and it's eventually revealed that it doesn't of the Kisira Atoll, which has the power to call Glover seeks to become one with this form behind. And the journalist finds Glover/the point of the Kisira Atoll, which happens to be The journalist is given the choice to form and become one with this energy, but they It's a pretty out there story for underwater exploration sim with The main story took about 12 hours to complete, and there are sidequests as well as a Some of the side episodes have beginnings until these end game missions, like a bomb testing site and the coverup Or the story behind a mysterious object you can discover toward the end of the There's a lot of content here. Not to mention all you've fully upgraded the Dolphin 2, and the for certain creatures. So if you want to 100% this But beyond all the quests, and distractions, there's still That hasn't diminished since Aquanaut's mystery have been peeled back in this there are still wondrous sights One thing that Aquanaut's Holiday series before it did is offer a The PlayStation entries had boundaries islands and other landforms That still happens in Aquanaut's you'll reach the end of the sonobuoys range I guess it's just the spirit of but I couldn't help wonder what Where words are not. Feeling remains. Ok, I'm just quoting Sunny Day Real Estate Like many quirky and prolific developers of the Artdink has spent their latter years and churning out licensed games The modern, mainstream games industry just Budgets are too big, profit margins It sucks. The only slightly more original recently was co-developing Triangle They also developed the recently HD-2D Remake, but that's a remake, so there ya go. Despite a slight resurgence in it doesn't seem likely that we'll see After playing through the entire series, I still It captures the lonely, mysteriousness of concrete objectives, dropping and leaving behind just enough breadcrumbs for The PS3 entry modernizes the proceedings, quirky characters, a peculiar story, and a It was a fascinating series to investigate, and going through some of Artdink's At turns enlightening, off putting, engaging, always unique. That's for sure. There were several games that I didn't a series of sci-fi station building, create factories to build giant robots, It's kind of neat, but I didn't really have much One of the more unique games that I Kyuuketsuki Densetsu, an RTS of sorts, around a village during the day attempting night you can return to their homes and suck You're creating an army of minions who's also roaming around the It's a really cool game that and I ended up sinking several hours into it. The reason I didn't talk about it video of its own. So just hold on for that one. For now, though, that's it for Aquanaut's If you liked this video, found it interesting, or it helped you get over your insomnia, share it with friends, and subscribe I do this pretty often, making videos, so you The reason I'm able to make videos to the extra financial support of They are the Dungeon Dwellers who support me I don't know if you know, but the so anything extra people can give to help But I also give back too. Dungeon days before they're public on YouTube, they get to vote in occasional polls have access to the Dungeon Dwellers Archive, Here's a short clip from the newest one: Then they're transported by the Admittedly, this place looks pretty cool. Raymond is already there, calling and all Jun needs to do is The Hunter appears, and you can't [znzpxcn a;ekjwoeijf] Oh my god. Mike's face. [qpinvbqe anpv] Wut? So anyway, if you want all of that and more below to become a Patron or hit the join button If you support with $5 or more each out loud at the end of videos, As well as these Dungeon Connoisseurs: Thank you all for your support. And Next time, things are gonna get a little Until then, Aquanaut's Holiday. Check it out. Dungeon Chill. Out.