- [Narrator] Using a fleet of 225 C-54s he hatches a plan to outsmart the Soviets. Tunner's airlift drops 2.3 11 months later, the Soviet Its stranglehold on West Berlin defeated. April, 1982. The Falkland Islands. Nearly 220 years of territorial disputes finally come to a head. Argentinian president, Leopoldo Galtieri, invades the small British 8,000 miles away, Britain On deck, a brand new acquisition. The C-Harrier, made a specially for the Royal Navy. British pilots know going in that the Argentinian air - The Argentines could field against our 21 C-Harriers. - [Narrator] Lieutenant was a Harrier pilot - The Argentines had the Mirage-3, which had twice the had 50% height advantage and a missile with a head as the sidewinders that we were carrying. They also have a large number of A-4 Skyhawk fighter bombers. We knew we were going to have a hard job. - [Narrator] June 8th, the HMS Hermes, 10 weeks into the war. Morgan and his wing man takeoff and head for the islands. Morgan and his wing man arrived Two British ships have been Morgan's first thought, that the Argentines will The Harriers keep watch Then out of the corner of his eye, Morgan spots trouble. - To my absolute horror saw a line of four aircraft, The only imperative now is to try and shoot down those aircraft. - [Narrator] Morgan has Years of training, allow - Locked the missile onto him. The missile locks straight And it came off my port wing and went straight up the guy's jet pipe and just vaporized the aircraft. - [Narrator] That's one sky hot down, but there's three more to go. - As I rolled the aircraft back up right again after the first missile shot, I was pointing directly at him. Locked my second missile. The missile followed him and - [Narrator] There's two aircraft left, but Morgan is out of missiles. He turns to climb and hopes - I looked back over my and saw my wing man fire a missile. A few seconds later, there as it hit the Skyhawk. - [Narrator] The last Skyhawk When the Harriers look around, Less than two hours after takeoff, the Harriers are back on their carrier with three kills under their belt. - By the time the conflict was over, the whole world thought In fact, the Argentine as the (speaks in foreign And if they knew C-Harriers they were quite often turn the raids back. - [Narrator] The C-Harrier downing 21 enemy aircraft 100 miles from the Marine a small village has taken a safe Haven for his drug operation. Money from poppy sales flows and weapons, weapons used The plan? To fly to the center of the remote village and insert 100 marines in broad daylight. The operation is risky. The Taliban has been timing U.S. aircraft. The insurgence know exactly how far and how fast the Americans can travel. They'll have weapons at the The marines are banking allowing them to slip by Four V-20s takeoff. The marines arrive at Once the Osprey touches down, In just a matter of seconds, the Ospreys dropped to the ground and unload 100 well-armed marines. The warlord never stands a chance. In under five minutes, he's in custody and sitting in the Osprey. The capture is a triumph A deadly threat to their All thanks to the Osprey. 1985, the Pentagon. The U.S. military has been with the Soviet Union for nearly 40 years. Russia versus the U.S. Spy versus spy. Each determined to gain control of the ultimate high ground, space. - The Soviets would put take pictures and very, very accurately keep up with the United They could very quickly launch satellites in a matter of hours and - [Narrator] The Pentagon as a dangerous threat In theory, the F-15 made sense. - It was powerful enough that it could carry a 3,000-pound rocket, and it could carry it to the that would allow the rocket - [Narrator] It sounds but it was a very real The satellite chosen for destruction, an out-of-date American research The man chosen to destroy September 13th, 1985, Vandenberg Air Force Base, California. At 12:40 in the afternoon, There's a 2,700-pound, mounted to the jet's center line. This is actual video from his flight. The satellite is 345,000 It's moving at 23,000 feet per second. Once his F-15 reaches 30,000 feet, Pearson has just a 10-second If his timing is off, Rocketing into the air, Pearson pulls the F-15 into a steep climb. At 35,000 feet, he fires. An infrared honing device on the rocket guides it as it heads into the sky. The F-15 has done what no other Conquer the heavens. Shooting down the satellite sends a strong message to the Soviets. High over Afghanistan, Major Derek Baker and his KC-135 crew pump gas into a leaking F-16. Fuel sprays out of the F-16's engine. Without constant refueling, the F-16s pilot may have to bail. - Essentially at that point, and trying to keep his so that he doesn't run out of gas. - [Narrator] The KC-135 and the F-16 fly connected through enemy skies. One sudden move from either - We did have a lot to worry about. As you can imagine, having two aircraft really in fact actually touching each other, and then conducting air you're going to have some danger. - [Narrator] It's 30 Plenty of time for something to go wrong. - We were a lot slower We're also looking out to make sure nobody decides to start - [Narrator] Finally, the The F-16 disconnects Baker makes radio call and The jet is safely on the ground. - It felt really good to know that we were part of saving the aircraft and also the bigger part - [Narrator] With the the tanker crew turns its attention towards the next mission. - Everybody's always going to And right after he got on the ground, after, you know, a quick we went off to another - [Narrator] The B-52. It's For more than a half a century, it's led the way in every - So this is the B-52 H strata fortress. Here in the community, which stands for big ugly fat fellow. Although that acronym is - [Narrator] The B-52 is Each wing measures 4,000-square feet. It's one of the largest and it packs a deadly punch. - The B-52's greatest strength has always been it's ordinance capability. It's been designed to carry in the air force inventory. - [Narrator] The B-52 carries weapons all over its air frame. Each wing holds up to nine weapons, missiles, mines, smart Inside, there's room for 27 more as well as eight nuclear cruise missiles. This gives a BUFF, a massive payload of different The B-52 carries 70,000 pounds of weapons, more than any other plane 1979, the Cold War spreads The Soviet arm countries with their most advanced weapons. It's top seller, the MiG. Israel looks to the U.S. for support. It must protect itself By June 27th, 1979, the Israelis operate 25 New weapon comes just in time. A few minutes before noon, four Syrian MiG-21s zoom A surprise attack. The Israelis detect the threat and alert four F-15s they Brigadier General Moshe Melnik was one of the Israeli air for over 38 years. On that day in 1979, he's in the hot seat of an aircraft never before tried in combat. - We look at very immediate locks, radar locks on the MiGs. It was in a distance of We got the permission to fire. - [Narrator] Melnik's heads up display shows that the MiG is approaching fast. This is Moshe Melnik's actual video. Melnik launches one of his missiles. It misses. Now the MiGs are on high alert. The MiGs counter attack roaring toward Melnik Melnik sets his sights on the MiGs. Now just seconds away. This time, he turns to a for the Israeli F-15s. It's called the Python-3. - This missile has a name in Hebrew called the (speaks in foreign language). (speaks in foreign language) God forbid that you will It was in range, and I press the trigger, and I took the first shot, and this missile hit the first MiG. - [Narrator] Less than 30 seconds after Melnik first got the alert, the Israeli F-15s defeat the Syrian MiGs. Moshe Melnik becomes the first pilot to show the world the lethal 1974, the air force debuts its brand new bomber, the Rockwell B-1A. - Major strategic systems like the B-52 were being replaced at a very rapid rate. It was only natural that the about a potential replacement. - [Narrator] The B-1A is uniquely designed to combat advanced Soviet defenses. Adjustable wings provide allowing it to fly low and - It had the capability deep end the Soviet Union than the B-52. - Three separate bomb bays give than the bigger B-52. Its only drawback? Cost. Its $102 million price tag takes center stage in an election. - During his presidential Jimmy Carter said that he due to its hight cost. - [Narrator] If the B-1 the BUFF will end up in the boneyard. It looks as if the B-52's 1976. After over 20 years in service, the B-52's fate comes down to an election. President Gerald Ford wants A move that will send the BUFF packing. But rival Jimmy Carter wants - After Jimmy Carter won the B-1 bomber program was canceled, and this in turn gave the - We're here today with the the army's premiere attack platform. The weapons of the is the 30 millimeter cannon, It's a machine gun essential. up to about 650 rounds per minute. When you shoot that gun, all the deck plates in vibrate and rattle. It moves all of your organs inside you. It vibrates your HDU in your You can feel it in your - [Narrator] If the gun the Apache has other options. - You can see installed on the aircraft. On the outboard side, you You have hellfire missile launcher rack. All of these can be configured for the mission that - [Narrator] The Apache can dish it out, and it can take it too. - Both crew stations have a There's a lot of Kevlar and as well as some Kevlar portions built into the side of the aircraft here itself. The fuel tanks of the aircraft themselves are ballistically tolerant. They'll seal up to about But the real advantage that they have is that they're inert with nitrogen. There's a system that takes the so that the gas itself becomes So you'll have, at the you'll have bullets in the gas tank that you need to fish out, but they don't penetrate So that's just one more built into the aircraft. This is the most in the army inventory, hands down. - [Narrator] June 19th, 2013. Afghanistan. A rocket attack kills The Taliban claims responsibility. The response is fast and furious. U.S. commanders mount an U.S. fighters fly around the clock, watching over troops on the ground. Keeping the fighters on but their endurance is just The solution air-to-air refueling. For that, they rely on the KC-135. - Behind me here is the KC-135, known officially as the Stratotanker. But for those that have pretty much just the tanker. - [Narrator] The KC-135 It's 136-feet long and It can carry up to 200,000 pounds of fuel. The Stratotanker's specialty? Pumping gas. There are tanks in it's forward fuselage, center, back fuselage and upper deck. There are three more in each wing. This flying gas tank is Aerial refueling. - Aerial refueling is the and getting them into at about the same time and then passing that fuel from - [Narrator] 1948, Berlin. Relations between Western take a turn for the worse. In June, Soviet forces block access to Allied-controlled areas. The Russians want the entire It's the first international World War III is a very real threat. As the months go on, the The Soviets appear to have the upper hand. Then the Allies come up with a novel plan. Airlift food, milk, coal, gasoline. West Berliners need 35,000 every single day. An airlift this big as never been done. The Soviets bet it never will. The Allies' plan gets Enter General William Tunner. Using a fleet of 225 C-54s, he hatches a plan to outsmart the Soviets. Tunner's airlift drops 2.3 11 months later, the Soviet Its stranglehold on West Berlin defeated. In the air force, fighters but transport aircraft are the movers. Airlift is a key part 2012. Afghanistan. America is at war with the Taliban. Ambushes on U.S. troops U.S. forces need around For that, they look to the U-2. Lieutenant Colonel Matthew with the ninth operational support squad. Over Afghanistan, something in the radio chatter - [Matthew] I was listening and started to hear some chatter of their having vehicle problems. - [Narrator] 7,000 miles analysts at Beale Air Force Base use the U-2 sensors to The U-2 symmetry reveals a just moments from ambushing The team must intervene fast or coalition troops may be finished before they know what hit them. The let Smith know. - You're listening to They don't know that you're there. They don't know there's - [Narrator] Lieutenant radios down to the troops to warn them of the impending attack. - [Matthew] It's like the Like who are you? How are you on my radio? And you just say, &quot;Hey, I'm telling you is get ready - [Narrator] Smith scans searching for help. He picks up two F-18 fighters nearby. The F-18s are only minutes away. But on his radio, Smith hears - You can hear the guys on You can hear the gunfire. You can hear the emotion in their voice. - [Narrator] Just moments later the fighters come roaring in taking out enemy forces in a single flyby. The troops are safe thanks to a near invisible The Harrier. A marvel of modern engineering. The world's most famous vertical - This here's the AV-8B Harrier II. It's the Marine Corps go-to aircraft for ground attack and - [Narrator] The Harrier Empty, it weighs just 15,000 pounds. More than a chopper, but less than half the weight 23,000 pounds of thrust let the Harrier hover like a helicopter or blast forward at - On my first flight, it was going to be like riding a dragon. Yeah, definitely was telling the truth. - [Narrator] 13,000 pounds of weapons give Harrier pilots an - The Harrier's capable of carrying a wide variety of weapons, everything from air-to-air Both precision-guided As well as the 25-millimeter guns capable of shooting up to When we get there, we bare ready hit hard and - [Narrator] 1995, after the Bosnian War finally ends, but the newly established leave the war-torn country on edge. American troops planned But the American camp is Now the army can't do its job. With its camp swept down river, generals have to come Papa Sulac Air Base, Hungary. The Chinook crew take off for Bosnia. 40 minutes after takeoff, the Nearly 100 bridge pieces wait for them. The Chinook's crew approach Five feet below ground crews scramble to hook the Chinook to its load. The soldiers work only feet The Chinook's twin rotors create more down wash It's the equivalent of standing in the way of a force-four hurricane. The ground crew must scatter. The mission is in jeopardy. The Chinook's crew come Hook up the bridge span The Chinooks must now hand off the bridge to boats waiting in the river. Adding danger, they must fly their load low over the treeline. Minutes later, the Chinook and watches the 12,000 pound bridge span drop into the icy waters. There's almost 100 more pieces to go. It takes hours, but the Chinooks are able to brave the It's the next morning before the bridge is fully constructed. Thanks to the Chinooks powerful lift. The bridge becomes a floating artillery and nearly 1981, Iraq. 10 miles south of Baghdad, French and Iraqi engineers They call it OC Rock after Osiris, the Egyptian god of the dead. Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein, claims the reactor is for research. The Israelis suspect a making nuclear weapons. - The Israelis were bound that the Iraqis never in nuclear technology. They decided that they needed to bomb the nuclear reactor in Iraq. - [Narrator] The Israelis turned to the newest fighter in the world, the F-16 Fighting Falcon. June 7th, six F-16s take carrying two 2,000-pound bombs each. It's a 600 mile journey to the drop point. - The F-16 flew at extremely low altitude, 150 to 300 feet. This kept the F-16s - [Narrator] 12.5 miles from OC Rock, the F-16s light up their after burners. They pop up to 3,000 feet and release their bombs. - It came off brilliantly. They got six out of the eight bombs within the dome of the reactor. It is extraordinary. - [Narrator] The raid makes - Good evening. The aftershock is beginning to mount in the wake of Israel bombing - It was such a bold, audacious attack. And there right in the actually doing the bomb dropping. - [Narrator] August, 1990. Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein sends his army into neighboring Kuwait. Its oil fields are rich for the taking, and Hussein may have his Saudi Arabia quickly gathers its allies. The 39-nation coalition is the They vow to bring Hussein to his knees. - Withdrawal from Kuwait ready and willing to - [Narrator] Eight Apaches from prepare for the 200-mile flight into Iraq. - We had to take out the radar So all the aircraft could - [Narrator] The Apaches takeoff cruising just 50 feet above the ground to avoid radar detection. There's a total blackout total radio silence. If Hussein's radar detects by the very target they've come to kill. It takes just over two hours for the Apaches to reach the radar towers. When they're five miles away, they hover for a moment This is actual footage from the very first Apache - When we pulled the trigger, all four aircraft shot at the same time. We've got four to six hell fires in route, time of flights, about 12 seconds. And then all of a sudden And when they start hitting, things start exploding pretty quickly, especially when we hit where the generators and all the fuel was. At about four kilometers, with the rockets that and that was to take that were out in front. And then as we get closer, and finish off the job. - [Narrator] It's four minutes of mayhem with 100% destruction. - We put an excess of on the target, a couple of and a lot of 30 millimeter and then broken through low-level back. - [Narrator] Destroying the radar towers opens up a piece of the sky 20 miles wide. - About five minutes into the flight back, we could see the jets and that's how the air war started. - [Narrator] Over 900 coalition into Baghdad, safe passage, (bright music)