I rented a small two-story house with a yard. 160 square meters in the second ring Single family home with yard It took me two months to find the place to go and take a look. Ha ha ha ha door is broken . Entered through the back door Oh my god , let's go through the back door first . This is the original kitchen. Tear down this wall Kitchen and dining room This is the yard The landscape needs to be well designed Then this is the living room. There is also a bathroom Oh my god , I don't dare go down I'm afraid of having nightmares. This small room is my studio . I also did some handicrafts. Don't look at this broken house. This really needs some renovation. This is the master bedroom upstairs . The sun on the balcony is so beautiful Change it to this French bed that I like Looks great This little room over here I want to make it a bathroom current bathroom is narrow and small There is another room on the second floor Then this is a second bedroom. Friends who watch my videos come to play with me You can live in this one The whole sunny side surrounds the house The third floor is a large balcony Can make a terrace Coffee Dumpling originally wanted to build a sun room But don't let the house cover These are all trees Wait till summer It's green and lush Tractor Tractor There is still half a box of mosquito coils left. this house is really annoying The red window Does it look like the crime scenes in Hong Kong and Taiwan dramas? There is actually a branch Go back and wash all your clothes. This kitchen is absolutely amazing Eager to try how I can change it. Prepare a budget of 60,000 Install it We can't do this job by ourselves You have to ask the master to do it Can you peel it off and do it for me ? This is all broken A small courtyard that has become so old that it has osteoporosis It's going to be a garbage dump for a while . this garbage come from? I'll carry this garbage later. I threw it first You threw some of it here. I threw it in the yard. But what about the leaves ? There is a food court downstairs Buy some bags. a few moments later Harvested several nylon bags This bag is big enough Very good, very good I'm so sorry. I asked someone to pick up so much garbage for me. Still need to cut down trees I don't know what species this is . A little motivation Today I can only finish the big trip It still depends on the facade to support the scene . The small roof has to be tied with ropes If I go up The legs have to go down But we have to cheer up and continue First, deal with the debris on the wall . These two are enough . Don't throw these nails around randomly. Poke it I walked around the house, I only saw nails. This wall really can't be broken down. You see , it's all broken inside. Such a thick nail We don't know what it was used for . I borrowed a ladder from my neighbor. feel very stable There are a lot of them above This old cadre The instrument mirror was also removed. This mirror is really a weight that life cannot bear Curtain Track Maybe even older than me. These are all discarded wires . Just hanging on the door We don't know about this wire. Air conditioner bracket This is floor heating. I thought it was tile . was all lifted up Working on the second floor I just found a shoe print here 'm a little tired by now . The last one the nails I pulled out this morning. these things , you can remove the wall paint Let 's see if we can get the door off. The middle distance The power is forward . Help me to cover it next time Bring it here Almost done sawing Pry it off Come down a little See if you can knock it down. Directly applied Can't get it down But floor tiles can I'm so tired that I smash it more than 300 if you dismantle it yourself renovation master taught me how to hold bricks as soon as you leave Why can people move? I can't move it bigger Coming down Come again above Why doesn't it work? Put it up This time it works You're done! Apart from taking some effort It's quite simple . With experience , we can all try harder Door in the same house Why is the quality still uneven ? Suddenly I feel relieved A bit addictive No, I won't clean the bathroom first . Try removing the door frame it last time . another section inside . Two more times Try the other side Hand saw is too hard , so I use electric saw no The blade is too short So what's the point of removing a door frame ? I'm going to buy another set of equipment . That certainly can't Or use your hands Fortunately , he died. There are nails on it. Yes, yes, Rock to Grandma Bridge Finish on one side This thing All nails Put it aside first Then the next one Suddenly I felt something was wrong This wall is cracked too. The wind blew it apart This house won't collapse. But the renovation workers came. He has to do this too. This house is still stuck inside. There's cement wrapped around it . the cement came unexpectedly broken It can still be used after some repairs . That 's strong Now I think it would cost more than 300 yuan to hire a master. expensive at all still many places to spend money next Save as much as you can Door frame progress bar plus 2 I 'm not done yet. The tool is no longer available. Keep on keeping on After removing this frame , I will let you retire Broken again This time it's completely scrapped . There's only a little left. use some strength to dismantle it My son has too much cement. Let's meet at the store next time. The tool is gone take down all the doors on the second floor first . I'm also exhausted. I removed three door frames today. 7 doors will save you at least 200 bucks . The workload is too large. I'm beginning to doubt whether I made the wrong decision. It was a timely rain that comforted my depression . This is the result of an afternoon of hard work. I hired a master to work with me for two days. The master also introduced me to the free removal of doors and windows . The doors and windows cover the labor costs . Wooden doors can also I don't know The board can also Removed it directly Stair handrails can also Even the branches were pulled out a while of operation He went from a small, dilapidated building to a ruin . But there is no creation without destruction. Demolish before rebuilding I want to make a garden in a small house extra trees first. This saw is broken too. I think it 's not as useful as a saw . Then use both saw and axe After I tried every possible way Finally finished chopping In addition to the pepper tree There are also a few scattered Chinese toon trees Such a small tree His roots are so deep. Which little dog buried you? I forgot to eat the bones . It gave me a fright. I wisely chose to cut down this tree I can make a tree thicker than my legs you stumped ? It's a matter of time The master came to apply cement in the kitchen and bathroom We can't save money on decorating this house . make money from the outer walls and the garden . All the scraping is waterproof putty Especially the hard decoration master doesn't know how to do it This method can only be implemented bit by bit. It calmed my temper. My goodness , when I looked up, I saw spiders everywhere. Too insecure. Flush them all away! It rained first You can continue to practice with peace of mind I'm on my own Can't fix it Mainly because I can't get up The master came to supervise . Ask him to help me remove the remaining two pepper trees Just consider it as hard work fee you think I'm tired ? no way Your own decision Tomorrow we'll take out the garbage. throw it down quickly Only half of the second floor can be reached I have to think of another way. an appointment with the master to choose the exterior wall paint color the color of the garden wall Which wall is more earthy? Clean the wall first And the bubbles The trash in the box can be cleared away I can finally clean up these corners. Clean the wall again I don't want to scrape the wall anymore The color is lighter than I thought But it 's still good Can't wait to try it Add some water for better brushing A bit sparse Add some more paint This time it's almost to witness a miracle has come How come the wall is pure white? I think it's pearly white. This white one makes me a little suspicious Is it really the wrong color? But it may be because I only brushed it once. Try brushing it a few more times . I feel like twice This brush doesn't look like This looks pure blue One last time this one to see if it's yellow after three times It turned a little yellow after painting But that's just a little bit. Still a lot new Too white, the chain has been changed Today, we invited the master to lay the floor heating I bought 6 more barrels I don't believe this time is not enough While the master was laying the floor heating, he was painting my railings repaint the area that was only painted once last time. I didn't expect to use up a bucket and a half just for replenishing There's still more than half of the yard that hasn't been painted. Put them all in place first Save yourself from tying it wrong . I decided to just brush it once. if it's not enough again ? I was afraid it wouldn't be enough Only the ones sprinkled on a bucket of noodles can be used Quickly turn on the double speed mode Finally, use this stall on the ground Finished painting the back of three railings The gaps that the 6 barrels just climbed up need to be patched up again Bought cement for filling seams He left this seam alone. Small seams can Big seams won't work. This won't work . I went to the hardware store to buy some water. Try the missing piece first. Very easy to use. It can be used to mend the seams safely. It's just that my facial technique is not that good. Repair piece by piece Then fill this big piece Level it up Overall it 's OK Wait until it dries before painting My railing is also dry to the wall immediately Outside is Holly Pond Just lift it up and put it outside Fortunately , I am strong. The big ones are basically invisible. This wall needs to be painted. Otherwise it looks like a ruin I fly on the grass with a bucket in one hand Continuous bending and squatting Before closing the door , you need to smooth the ground in front of it. Bought quick-drying cement Fill the deeper areas first In fact, I think it can be poured directly It's so deep that I do n't think there's enough cement . Fortunately, the master came to fill the floor heating today. Mix some more cement for me I just want to make up for this Just make up for this. Try adding some water It's really smooth. The gate finally arrived See which parts they are. The thickest of these four should be the pillars. These sticks are useless. It should be for hat brims. a 45 degree angle and then put it together to test the size Come on, poor Buy online At least you don't have to assemble the shapes yourself if you buy online . Luckily, the size was right this time. Fix it with nail -free glue first One big and one small made two pairs Try fixing them together first . A hat brim is completed Put it on the pillar and nail it up I still feel that way . This is too high. Install the other one too. Oh my god, these two pieces of wood are not the same size I didn't redo it. Just cut off a little bit and put it on Next Steps connect the two pillars with the brim of the hat Put one on top Install one below Okay , this is barely watchable. Do the same on the other side . The wind is really strong today . How to get up there? Mouth corner cut I'm afraid the distance is wrong. Let's install the pillars first. is the nail I don't know how it's used. Just picked one and smashed it The result was smashed Smooth 's about it. The next day, the exterior wall modeling master came. Helped me fix it. I just realized that I screwed the expansion screw the wrong way. We still need someone with experience to come here. All right? As expected, the beam above must be cut flat before it can be installed. Painted to look like almond bones on the railings , it's so simple . The length is just enough to hang a small windshield Now it 's still pretty nice. I bought some more lights So big This is a rainproof and electricity-proof solar light Turn off the light at dawn It's dark, but it's bright Put it on the pillar Just give him a raise. A bit higher would be better . There is no way Make a lamp stand Three layers in total Design the size first 3526 feet 7 There's not enough wood left . Including this broken piece, it is two meters long. Try doing one first. the skills gained from making doors So they stick together layer by layer . Finally, nail the board on One layer is done. Can be used as a tray Mastered this craft I can't do anything by myself anymore. I feel like I'm saving a ton of money . I think these two might be enough . Put it up and see the effect These two are enough. The big one was done in vain. enough wood left to make a arrange the pillars on both sides of the gate first . Or fix it with nail- free glue So sticky You will be stuck in this situation for the rest of your life . I hope he wo n't be bad in the next 5 years. It still feels great when it lights up at night I'll install the other 6 . This car is pretty solid . stocking up on some atmosphere artifacts for my little garden in advance remove the sponge on top. Only the wooden planks remain The board doesn't look very Tear it off first. Tear out a piece of rotten plywood Get some boards I 'll make him another one. This material is rubbish. I suddenly forgot to make a tray . Green paint is back on the field is Spinach Green . Coming soon! No need to open it this this This is ok . least not so bright green Suddenly I want to give Spinach Green a chance haha Spinach green is unexpectedly fresh I was wrong about spinach green I should n't have misled everyone just now. But look at this Paint three times One last time This color is fresh and retro Then put my tray on him. Put it on and see the effect Not bad, not bad Garden atmosphere Team 1 has decided Use Spider-Man to hoist and shovel in the house was also scraped by the same master I didn't expect that 14 days would pass by. My wallet is gone too. It turns out that flags cannot be set casually. 15,000 to scrape the whole thing off. Budget : 60,000 Your heart is bleeding Fortunately, the effect is good Put two pieces of tape on my broken heart The next step is to install doors and windows But I have no money anymore 29.5 386 Kitchen and study door I'm talking about privacy . These two things are really heavy. 34 Seventy dollars wasted I can only hope at the door . Fortunately, this one is just right But he is broken. He doesn't admit it. A newbie in decoration cannot beat an old fox This is my first time using quick dip powder That's fine. That's it . We don't know how to fix it Need to apply 3-6 mm This should work, right? Boys boys it hurts Press firmly for one minute It's stuck. The seam is a bit big the seam again Oh my god This is really fast. only 5 minutes to do this Harder than keeping water from leaking this time If you apply more, the gap will be smaller. But it's no use The seam is still that big OK a hot day so you need to be fully armed At present Color not turned over This is clear Stir Stir Let's try this house first . Success or failure depends on this one move It was very successful. Try again. Linoleum can really be used Just cut two bricks and put them as pads and you're done It's a little cooler here . Continue to In fact, you should apply cement on the linoleum. Only when it is hard can you walk on it But the cost is too high Ten thousand less I just painted it directly on the linoleum Finally finished Still black Have to do it again This is a little cooler. there is none left You must hold on until all the money is used up. This time I found a stick brush It is much more convenient to use The effect of the second time I asked the store to send me another bucket. I bought a bucket to save money . In the end First use bricks to level it There is nothing within 40 centimeters of each block Just lay more bricks so as not to damage the waterproofing You won't encounter antiseptic wood. I bought all the whole materials 's so long It's still very heavy. Saw out the keel first. Go up and try it We have to clear this drain . Two meters and four meters is exactly two meters and four If I move all these roots up there , I'll probably be useless . Let's fix the site. Cut the antiseptic wood first the blood will return after the cut . This day is over If I don't lose 5 pounds, I'll be sorry for the work I do. This is all tasted 21 more So supportive I was in a trance after moving Fortunately, the rest is easy life trim the extra keel. No, this is too difficult. Let's move them all out and repair them. That 's just right. when I thought everything was finally going well There's a nail stuck in there. I ca n't see where the keel is. After opening, the old nails This brother has never been bad before . I doubt if it's Mercury retrograde. Okay, I wanted to make two floral scents. Brother, cheer up. This job can't be done I 'm done It's really bad again Jingle Bell is finished Next, start painting Match it to the tea green color and have a look this faded? Try brushing it on A little more normal But the color difference is still big That 's it for now . Later, you can tie the shape on the rooftop It's time to dig bricks in the yard hard to move it up . This time it was like running 3 kilometers. Last time the master putty , there was still some water left. It saves me from moving cement. No, don't do it first. It's just too fast. I'm so anxious to get started. What should I do? This is dry here Place them one by one along the drawn curve the seams again potted plants are allowed on the rooftop So one layer is enough . It's over . I smashed it by mistake and pulled it out by mistake . if you put some flowers on it I just called a little ant has also arrived Yeah, it seems a bit fake. Fortunately, the large area looks good bought a 50- square-meter rooftop for 700 yuan. It was so hot that the grass sank downstairs Pick it up and lay it down I picked up two pieces and moved them up to see the effect. this broken roof can be reborn depends on this moment Oh, this is wide enough . I have to use the scraps to connect it. The seam is a bit obvious The most difficult part is that the flower bed has to be cut to fit perfectly. This can put stickers on me All the experience accumulated in laying floor stickers was put to good use Suddenly an idea struck me build a half wall on the right rooftop . As a partition We don't have experience either. I wanted to create that natural style . Now we lay the lawn on rainy days Can you rescue it? I really got blisters on my hands from picking up grass today. Strictly qualified This wall has been saved. Use antiseptic wood to figure out one yourself this for two 2m2 will only cost about 100 First determine the size of the bottom This is the first time for 4 21 to make such a big thing I don't know if it will work. Can't get in , can't get out Never mind. I 'll give it to you . You switch steps restart Fix the board first The side was nailed with a gun Using screws will crack the board. My antiseptic wood is all scraps Use keel Then set up the side keel with a drill bit Fasten it with screws so long, I don't think the keel can support it. Suddenly I thought of making a garden gate There's still some rough wood left. Just right for legs Isn't this the leg ? Smart as me Put it on him quickly . Hmm, why can't I put this one in the middle ? Aren't there three ? Take it down and compare it quickly It's the same Maybe the floor in the house is uneven Move out and stand firm Finally I can start nailing the board The wooden planks are also made into fences Nail it with a nail gun Fix it with a nail gun first I'll drill another one. This way it 's solid . As a result , a section was missing at the end. The lock on this cover is too rough At least it doesn't leak. Okay, it's not hot anymore. I really made it . okay to look at it this way , right? Finally, apply a layer of varnish It's so cool, I don't care The original wood color looks good with flowers the air is drying, make the first layer of floral scent. With experience It's obviously more perfect than the previous one. Wow It's really heavy . Hurry up and move it up to see the effect. Not bad, not bad It will look beautiful if you plant flowers It will dilute the sadness of spending money The next step is to iron the soil. This flower smells too good You need to iron 8 buckets of soil on and off for the whole afternoon. Finally finished ironing Oh, sorry. Sorry, sorry. I put all the small roses in the flower box Water and fertilize Just wait until they grow up slowly . Arrange the other flowers here first Wait until you buy a flower pot. Today I made a climbing frame for it. Use a 1.7 - meter platform The remaining antiseptic Make the door frame first Connect the two ends of the wood with screws Every time I use this machine I feel Crying and hanging The one below is also connected Okay, the door frame is done. Try to see if the board can be aligned properly. Do the side first Mickey screwed to the board How come this fell off? Play well on both sides The grid is 30 cm 15 cm per grid 15 cm per grid nailing the boards and lattice Two more keels have to be nailed to support them . The framework is finally ready Finally I can start nailing the board Isn't it just right? I thought I had plugged in the board. On this curve On this curve There's a gap in the middle . I didn't expect the board could be curved. Why is it so crooked? I really feel like I'm starting to patch again No longboard anymore Make do with the short board But you won't be able to see anything after painting it. Start making the grid Or cut it at 45 degrees Cut four sticks like this to make a frame I have lost my patience. Throw it in Fix it again Others are glued with nail- free adhesive Why Wow, I feel like I'm about to collapse The grid is a bit flat and dark It's all black. I won't do it with the tip. Just paint it More black It looks a bit old. Just smear it all over Bronzed iron One row of screws is used to fasten it There is an iron rack underneath. When it's done, you can put it in a flower pot No more planks. Let 's make do with the dragon bone So make a matchmaker Then cross like this Let's pin it on first and see if it looks good. No, I won't tear it down again. How about arranging two like this ? Never mind. I don't know how to fix it. I dare to believe that in more than ten degrees It can also appear taller visually Finally finished Check out the effect now Why does it feel not as good -looking as before? But at least it's not low . There are five or six images. I 'm already full . Then make the middle grid Otherwise it's a bit long Otherwise it's too short Not sure Fasten it with nails Start making grid It's not good here Use nail-free glue to stick the nails on It looks simple . After doing these two things 17. Make a frame outside Connect the outer frame to the windowsill A little air conditioning didn't know the shape yet . It will be fixed later That's it . It's fake anyway. It has a bit of three-dimensional effect when it is turned on. This window is placed next to the door. Also painted blue-grey Or put a little angel here Echo the carvings on the door But I never expected This leaf is not generally wide . Use a thick layer of nail- free glue Or start from the back box eye glue dries too slowly Make the frame and glue it at the same time The frame behind is also made into a grid Glue the leaves again This picture is cyan It matches the yellow wall Drying time of lamp blinds Install the lattice window first Suddenly I remembered that I forgot to install the gauze curtain Oh my god This is all gone And it sticks move , bro. Let 's do this for now Wait until I gain experience . The wheel hub is also glued Put a nail This effect is okay. Pretty decent Both sets are 17 previous waste materials must also be utilized How many pieces of wood can be cut together The 45 -degree angle of the keel must be done one by one This operation is over Left and right The board is just enough . Then glue it with nail -free glue They stick together. I dealt with it first After grinding, the wood grain is gone. I can only leave a little black and finish it. The color is a bit yellow See if it goes with green . The quality of this one is not as good as the chair as fine as that chair This time I tried Mars Green Wife Or use wave green The color is light and the overall look is lighter In fact, the effect is quite good after one time I brushed it a second time It seems a bit American. stalemate with a bottom Just enough But it looks like I have to brush it again I installed all my little lights. At night, we are the most beautiful guys Garden atmosphere group No. 2 semi-finished member Cheap that's awesome The style is very ordinary But we can give him a different color. This is too macaron . Try it on first this cyan ? This is obviously green But it 's okay Color instability Change the color and arrange everything A golden A bronze See which colors are better together Perfect proportions the fan . It can also turn Use a 30 yuan flower stand Put your swing up. Just install a swing It's a bit inconvenient to have people As a result , the one with eyes was placed aside . Slapped in the face again Let's tear it down and rebuild it. Why does he feel so short? It's like that toy to me . The lower beam is also installed Side beams Does he mean to bend it ? It can only be installed after it is bent As a result , it bent That should be it . this really bear 500 kg ? I can't take it easy Just let me fall on my butt Hey, is this the reverse side or is this the front side? Wrong again It's so difficult So much handwork I ended up flipping over on a small swing . The paint was twisted off before it was installed Move the shelf up first. No, this is too close. I clearly calculated the distance. Why does it feel slanted? I need 17 Seventeen Eighteen The number of chains is different Now that 's it No wonder it's so cheap goods are not good Liu Qing Make one with antiseptic wood How to draw it into a circle ? Take the center line first Use a stick to do it horizontally The edge is a bit bumpy. But barely possible Still quite suitable Paint him white first . Brush it to the same cheese white as the clams After it is dry, fix it with a corner clip I've played a bit too much. Put them together again. Not addicted Hit as many as you can. Hurry up and see the effect I didn't expect them to fight like this . The cost is less than 100 yuan It can also have such an atmosphere really satisfied with the garden I made. asked the master about the broken bridge aluminum. Imitation wood aluminum alloy only has original wood color He asked me to choose between wood and white. I chose white I thought I looked too ordinary. I don't know if installing glass would be better. Yeah , still hard. Neither Chinese nor French The trays are empty until the windows are installed . The exterior has been refurbished I kind of forgot it was an old house. This is wall covering. Oops, what should I do with such a big piece ? Just shovel it with your head held high I really want to use that vacuum cleaner It's really hard to clean . No leakage of water Try filling the hole. But I think I can't fill it smooth with my level Let's try our best . Then smooth it out with water Oh, sure enough, the gesture This is compared to the wall The color difference is a bit big . I got this in one bucket. But I still have a sense of luck I want to see if brushing twice will make it better the second time. This time you can't just brush it casually You have to brush it evenly. The second time was only slightly better than the first time Sand it with sandpaper Then use the exterior paint to touch up I patched it up and it 's still very smooth. still a very obvious line I bought another bucket of white Have to repeat it again was finally done after a week of blowing. I can finally feel at ease now. is 2.6 meters tall A big guy with a width of 2.5 meters It cost me 5,000 dollars One door on the first and second floors A total of 10,000 At first I thought it was a bit expensive When I saw these 64 pieces of glass More than 500 aluminum bars Smash them up one by one I suddenly felt it was worth it It can see the black seam . This is the adhesive strip See the glass is not pressed He just leaks like this Then apply white glue one by one to the top is still Quite spectacular It would be nice if the color can be softened later . The arched windows on the first floor were finally fixed. The green trees outside the window feels so good The door curtains are also fixed But I'm too lazy to change it. want a door now . The kitchen was also demolished It suddenly became much brighter The kitchen is made of water ripple glass . a plasterboard wardrobe outside Plus the skylight It's only a few hundred. Cheap and environmentally friendly The master bedroom also needs to be arranged with two large The carpenter was still there when these two sides were made. Let him help me do it. First make a wooden frame to fix the window You have to paint it first before you can nail it up. Because my house is all white So I painted it with almond white the master is doing it, we can take it by the way. The lotus leaf needs to be placed in a hole. It feels a bit long . Since there is no wooden bar to hold the glass, it is impossible to press the glass. me how to press the glass . There is still a piece of water ripple glass left from the kitchen door and window. I asked the master to cut it for me. Next Tasks The wooden strips of glass were installed like this Try cutting one also easy to be broken Take your time Use a nail gun to nail it sideways A safe one will be much easier . It took less than 20 minutes No money In the end, the glass is not installed on the nailed wooden frame . This will prevent the wooden frame from deforming Use that flash powder to block these powders Otherwise it looks too lame Can't smooth it by hand Or use a shovel . more pleasing to the eye after applying this ? Grind the uneven areas The frame is also blurred by the putty . Restore it to him. Eyebrows finally installed According to the master 's eyes Just screw it back. Feeling disabled ? The moment I saw the finished product I think I 'd be willing to do it for another 9 days. When I think of such a beautiful thing , I chose a cream color that is slightly yellowish. Because each of my rooms is relatively small I chose a unified color Puttying is a package price Let the master do it together Since I added two drywall wardrobes with snacks It took 3 days just to putty . After applying putty, the wardrobe finally looks like a real thing . when I thought I could paint it The master started polishing again. This grinding lasted for 7 days. Suggested You have to spray a layer of primer before you can spray the topcoat Fortunately, I asked the master Otherwise, we can brush it for half a month. To the topcoat I ca n't wait It will look good with any furniture I am very satisfied with this color Clean up and see the overall effect I put it all on the tiles. How to get here ? I was pulling and pulling and suddenly I could n't spray it it's a perfect match with alcohol money . It works so well. Finished it easily I bought two more buckets of tile paint Tea White Don't drink before use Tiles can't go out It costs several thousand to make window covers. I just want to paint it the same color as the wall . Tile treatment agent should be applied twice Apply again every 5 minutes Too much This won't take away my whole A bit of a stinky background Apply a thicker layer the second time. Let's suck up the latex on the ground first. Scrape it off with a cleaning knife Vacuum up the debris Preparation I spent 100 bucks on shipping. Pull this two -meter- 2 large cabinet home we put it this way , wouldn't it take up most of the space ? 3,000 yuan can be saved I'll measure the space above. 241m2 enough to add two more cabinets ? Corner 78-24296 Measure the distance between the door and the partition Each is 31 One sentence can do it well I'll wipe these two cabinets first. These two cabinets are lucky I have to paint it later. Change their skins . The first time I bought this color label is very nice blue-gray It's yellowish green . It's the same color as my floor tiles . Right choice, right choice The whole wall You have to choose this kind of stable and durable color Just brush these two large cabinets twice Buy two different Modeling on the cabinet Measure the size 45 degree cut on both sides Fix it with putty Why is it short? No, this thief can't waste any money This nail gun made me almost vomit yesterday's meal There's still some space in the middle Let's go one more round Use a ruler to determine the position first Cut it one by one Pin it Two laps really look much better . The first two floors are fine. You can put it in and see the effect This is too authentic. ornament can be placed right in the middle . The color is also very good Glue it with glass glue Press twice Perfect. This is just right. The door of the meter box is also arranged Put a back panel down first Place the painting on the backboard Put it in the frame and fix it with the refrigerator Finally installed it Determine the location of the hole first Drill holes and install the expansion screws . One hole on each side Just press the upper frame and tighten the screws . alright The door can be installed now Bought some lotus leaves One side fixed to the door frame One side is fixed to the door leaf alright This snack is pretty nicely designed . The door of the electric pancake box is also installed in the same way. Iris flowers are beautiful also moved the plants from my previous house here . Give it some atmosphere 69 yuan each Bought 4 First, put two together Prepare to hang them on both sides of the cabinet Hang two on one side Determine the location Fasten with expansion screws Ah, I think of tenderness. Oil paintings are also arranged There are still some solid wood lines left from the last cabinet installation. Use it and the back panel to cut the angle at 45 degrees. Cut out Wrong or not It was quite successful. Follow the same method I also made the remaining few pictures. the wood lines I chose rosewood and brown, which are similar in color . This way the whole box of oil paintings won't look messy After doing it Then use glass glue to stick it to the painting and the backboard easy to finish one piece Such an oil painting costs less than 15 yuan Glue the rest. Rosewood This oily What I look forward to most This twist This is so nice. This flower frame is too big. Need to use directional fixation Install the hook on the back panel This mirror also needs to be installed for him I want him to take the center position of this wall Next, it's time to go up on the wall . This is the biggest one next to the candles on top Hang the mirror in the middle Hang the portrait next to the mirror The last two people arranged Light a candle This atmosphere is not right Have you got it ? I love the retro feel of candles . This whole wall of oil painting The cost is less than 300 yuan Record the beautiful scenery outside my window This green plant is also pulled over Then put all my housework of eating on top of it. And the Athena lamp I made by hand is placed here Overall it 's ok 's still some space on the wall . I bought a few more paintings Last time, a friend said that the photocopied photos were a bit cheap. This is spray- painted High color reproduction The details are also high-definition I can't draw it, so I can only use these Or use solid wood lines to make picture frames 2.5 meter long 20 yuan can make two frames Still painted in rosewood color This time only one shape was used Wait until it is dry and then glue it to the picture frame with nail -free glue. different after installing the picture frame Screw the picture frame hook on the back You can put it on the wall Most of the paintings I selected this time are landscapes. This atmosphere is enough I'll be editing videos here from now on. land by the window Can't leave it empty Bought a carpet 123 is such a big piece Light green and dark brown retro pattern matches the tone of the study room very well this piece down. The temperament immediately improved Tiger chair from 399 There are also places arranged Find a small round table in the bedroom can be placed here. Put flowers and teacups on the table This is so romantic. The window and the sofa are a perfect match. The furniture is almost arranged. The bookcase wall is missing a ladder Then you can row back and forth. All 4 are fine Still pretty stable color is it? Or brush rosewood ? Don't waste this woody smell Rosewood is beautiful. It's hard to brush I accidentally spent money But the effect is good It's retro right now . I spent a lot of money on hardware. Need to rescue I wanted to try metallic paint on gold leaf Cover with rosewood paint Have to say I'll take it in to see if it's high enough Just fit on top Not bad, not bad Very stable and practical of Xiaodudu's study is now complete . There is a romantic reading corner and oil painting wall The whole wall The bookcase is a bit too big it up slowly green plants and landscape paintings in the work area Can relieve stress nails on one Several other branches are also arranged Okay, let's settle this . Connected to the floor The framework seems to be successful Whether it can be completely successful depends on cutting glass. I hope my skills are settled. It's just that I fixed it unevenly . Fortunately, we have to add this condition The previous gear can't see the wooden strips Cut out the appropriate size and put it on Fix it with a nail gun Paint the glass first. It looks better. Install glass on these four sides Fortunately, I still have such a big one Otherwise, with my glass -inserting skills Success is a bit too casual glass I also installed it to see the blinding effect. I actually made it. Next, the original wood color is very beautiful. But I want to pinch the silver thread Painted it white The pattern will be better if you pinch out the white frame This shot took 9 hours to complete. Wow, the clothes are finally finished. Work hard I don't want to set up other private servers this glass box you made It will have no meaning Let's get on with it. Fortunately, I chose this lotus painting The lines are relatively simple I think I 've reached perfection now . Purely hand- made shape It took 4 and a half hours in the end So elegant. This is my favorite . The last front This one is only in silver Also good looking Choose a color similar to the original image and click it. Then use cream yellow to smudge the leaves Or use dark green and milky white to smudge It takes a lot of time But the effect is really amazing I originally wanted to use it to hold hand tools. Now good guy smashed all the tiles . The same floor tiles as the living room were laid Now it looks like this again Only the wall is left untreated Because it is so small in a matter of seconds. So I don't plan to lay tiles. Afraid of pasting it smaller Buy some and then study it It looks white. This is not yellow when I suspected that I had sent the wrong item Add water and stir Turn yellow -green Just painted the wall once. Do n't finish brushing. This color is really too much Really green Three days and 30 , I 'll install a window for the small hole . There's only one piece of glass left. Let's light up now. I'll install my cloisonne enamel window first. Install the lotus leaf and you can open and close it Oh my god See through the light There is still some antiseptic wood left when I renovated the garden Use it to make a water meter box to cover up the ugliness We have to polish the surface Then just put them together in pairs. Then nail two pieces on top according to the size of the water pipe. Another piece on the back I'll use it to fix it to the wall later. This way the frame is edited putty to fill the gaps in the frame The remaining decorations will be painted and then painted uniformly . decorate Or is it the leftover transfer paper ? I chose two that match the black walnut color . Combined Just put this oval down Use his pen to draw the shape Then evenly apply off-white paint to the oval . White transfer paper will be more obvious time for it to dry Put this in first . Try to see if you can get in with nearsightedness There is a big gap between the wall Because of this back panel Dismantle it. Change to two thinner corners Code it up Try again this time This is much neater . When using expansion screws Much smoother Missing a tip can't see it if you don't look carefully . Next to it is a portrait Perfect oil painting feeling really matches the dark walnut color. First, determine the position of the carving Then apply UV glue on the back and stick it on Arrange them one by one Bake it with UV light Okay After carving, it becomes more refined and retro I feel like these four corners don't match the nail patterns. I took four more corner flowers and painted them in dark walnut color. After it dries, use nail -free glue to fix one corner at a time. After sticking it together, it looks better and feels better . Hurry and put it on Just enough to clear my toilet. Install a lotus leaf on each side Fasten the door For convenient switching door core was installed Close tightly It seems to match the atmosphere of my bathroom . So I spent more than 300 to buy 507090 cm wooden boards 3 pieces each and 8 Roman columns of 5*60 cm I plan to make it myself with full confidence I didn't expect the first step Something went wrong These two pillars are a bit too thick It's OK to put it on this big board 50 -yuan small board pen is not coordinated Then these little walnuts scrub it again This is a bit too much. Decided to sacrifice a large board Use it as a side panel Leave 10 cm on this end Made into two boards, wide at the bottom and narrow at the top Separating the boards with a jigsaw The board is finished To make it heavier I want to try to cut it into a curve . Use a pattern saw to cut along the drawn curve The arc is OK Next, we have to improvise . 's it , bro. The saw surface is too rough You need to use a grinder to polish it. This one is polished quite smooth. All aspects are rounded I feel like my mid-bone storage rack is halfway to success. The other side of Yan'an This piece is sawed out with an arc Add a baffle It will appear better quality Add this ring on top I think the whole thing is a bit monotonous Added a carved baffle The last shot has a bit of a medieval feel . Although it is not as good as the ones sold by others But the cost is forty or fifty yuan This effect is also worth it . Fortunately, it is just a corner I can't see it usually . This is its corner. Next, install the pillars. I didn't expect this pillar to be so difficult to tighten This staircase angle is custom made So the two boards above are installed a little shorter Just fix the short board with a screw below . The last layer Upward Kick this 300 bucks worth it ? It 's like a painted skin. this last issue is touching . Finally, I got a bell Successfully loosened one ah Done doing this , I actually feel pretty good . No, he has to go to the bathroom . It's ok, we can make a more perfect one later. Place at an angle This is just right only one chest on the second floor. Crime scene in Hong Kong movies Atmosphere full down there . The bathrooms in old houses are relatively small This is less than 3 and a half square meters But better than the first floor smash all the tiles replace the red windows that are full of atmosphere It replaced the white lattice window Now it looks like this This floor height plus lattice windows It must look good after the modification. For effect I spent 5,000 yuan to buy a bunch of handmade bricks White handmade long bricks for wall tiles Wave This one costs the most money French red and white checkered floor tiles I bought There is also a white waistline Because the windows are white I bought all the bricks in white But I didn't expect to spend so much money on bricks Such a safe color It can also roll over I didn't say I didn't see it. I thought I saw it wrong . I didn't expect to wait until the whole side was paved before looking at it. this gray ? Maybe the merchant sent the wrong boxes of goods Quickly compare it The result is that every box is like this It is white when it lies flat on the ground. The wall turns gray . That 's how it changes . Fortunately , there is no color difference with the waistline But it would be a disaster if the floor tiles were laid A cool color A warm color Hopefully putty will do. Hope to be rescued Apply a layer of anti-crack mortar first By the way, level the door and window Apply it after it dries. putty for indoor use A little leaky Cement needs to be applied twice the putty dries, it needs to be sanded At this moment, I am so sad that wearing a raincoat feels like wearing a school uniform I have to start polishing with a heavy heart. Putty is relatively soft Just lightly sand it with sandpaper Almost there When repairing the exterior wall There's some exterior paint left. White yellowish color This is waterproof Just enough to paint the upper wall twice. white and yellowish color is applied wall color is much softer Brush once Brush again after it dries. Roller without brush touch up any spots The wall is done The ceiling must also be arranged Since the roof is a floor Too hard to run the light line Gypsum board ceiling is easy to deform I chose the integrated ceiling Only gray and white I chose white But why am I looking at this white hard This kind of antique brick wall does not need to be made The ones on the ground have to be done If you don't make any seams , it will slowly turn black . I bought 3 nuts So many tools used First use a wallpaper knife to remove the dust in the seam Vacuum it away This seam is quite clean . It will be cleared in a moment. Apply a layer of wax on the seam. This way it is easier to scrape the caulking agent . Preparations completed You can make beautiful seams Bought almost Same color as white brick At the beginning, the squeezing skills were still a little rusty As I became more proficient The board finally arrived I think the color is better than what I saw in the store . I just opened the beginning and I was determined This color is so touching . The texture is also natural The pattern doesn't look fake at all We chose the right wooden floor - foot line selection of edge strips I didn't expect the merchant to bring me a black one. This bag is so weird. No help my floor is ruined if I put black border on it If it doesn't work, you can still paint it. Let the master paste it and try it You can't see it from a distance . Used hand stickers Stick it on first There is another board Can be used as a meter box decoration This time make it a square. master is here. Let him cut it for me. Fasten them with corner brackets Make a frame Finished the remaining decorative strips Surround it with a circle My floors are dark walnut. This picture frame is also painted dark walnut But still the same trick as before White in the middle Put another flower This sticker It really saved my life several times. Very retro Use lotus leaves to connect the two frames together It's done right now. Fix to the wall with expansion screws The master has finished gluing the edge strips. Ah this This God Why is there a gap between the wall ? Just collect the edges of the floor. It looks so bad. Just apply putty powder yourself Don't say putty powder is omnipotent Various pits and seams Just wipe it away It looks much more comfortable now . second floor of the small single-family house has finally shown results Give yourself a beautiful birthday party First, let's have a low- cost atmosphere I dismantled the ceiling rack in my closet. Moved down Make a curved circle The middle beam is installed higher. Put on a piece of atmospheric gauze curtain fabric The right crossbar should be lowered Oh, I forgot to wrap the light strip . Small lights are a magical tool for creating an atmosphere beautiful when twisted behind the fabric There is also a gauze curtain hanging on the right beam. Hang a small lamp on the left side Hang a veil A little lower Put a storage basket Flower arrangement with floral mud Hang this olive green cloth This way the background has focus. the private room is also more expensive style ornament I found before . Oh, I already feel a little The dining table is also arranged Linen cloth Put a table runner Can be used as a dessert table The chairs must also be beautiful Make some decorations fabric for curtains to the back of the chair with a ribbon I also bought some tableware Blind Box 200 yuan for two boxes Small glass candlesticks Four in a set Bowknot small bowl Large fruit plate Small flower candlestick Small candlesticks What is this Very exquisite Small jar Small bowl with floral pattern This can also be used for fruit There is another box I am looking forward to it. Roman cup small flower basket This is so exquisite. I love it. This is good China Piglet multiplies it by 3 Well Piglet multiply it by 10 the big fruit plate is for. A total of 20 Many items have been fully recovered This knot matches me very well. Looks great on display It will be more beautiful if you light candles My god, this atmosphere is comparable to that of a restaurant outside . flowers on birthdays . So much money spent a total of 310 Buy flowers to cover the whole house My lucky color is purple I made a white and purple series Let's have some table setting The crystal cups and bowls are also decorated with floral mud. Let me show you my achievements Beautiful hahaha So beautiful The total cost is less than 600 yuan High-end and cost-effective The key is that your own arrangement is really meaningful. There were so many. Fortunately, my friend stopped me. Cold dishes are also served I bought a glass cover like this . But according to the above, it seems a bit too long . Change it and let him be here Just remove the thin tube in the middle . his head off first. Why can't you come out? The wire fell out while I was twisting it . Never mind, the line is old. I'll change a new one later . It 's high. It's suitable But put this here and stick it in for them It took me 5 minutes to saw it off. Saw off the other end as well . This time it'll be ok. Just draw another line through the tube Secure with screws below Install a shelf on top Then use the original lamp holder to tighten the screws and lock it in place. I also broke the screw just now . Just replace it with a new one and screw it on. After all this effort , I finally got the foundation right. You can change the color of the lamp post Prepare to paste gold foil imitating ancient and modern times The texture could be better bought it a long time ago for 40 yuan Finally it works Apply gold foil glue first Rub with laundry detergent Brush evenly twice Okay, wait for it to dry. Wait until the tape becomes sticky before gently sticking the gold foil on. Wear a tube top Use a brush to smooth out the wrinkles little by little. Oh my god, this quality It looks better under the sun Next, arrange the lampshade I spent a lot of money to buy a handmade glass plate Because the lamp post is too big find the right glass lampshade I bought a glass basket with a diameter of 33 The pattern is very beautiful Purely handmade Use it as a lamp The shape of the wave is also very suitable You have to make a hole in the middle . Why do I hear a cracking sound? I'm so scared It cost 350 You can't let me be defeated . Pearl white and green two colors interlaced hanging It's time to start stringing beads again green first Use the remaining crystal accessories Hanging green beads Gold and green still go well together with a string 25 rice beads Wear this small piece through the middle Then wear 25 rice beads After putting it through, tie it to the middle of the hole in the glass. Nice effect , still quite retro Just follow this plan Install the hardware first this uneasiness will come back. Fortunately, the style of the dress is still very retro Suddenly I have the motivation to wear white White is more elegant White and green look pretty This time it was 8 o'clock in the evening. I was angry for another hour . Wearing tassels makes you more charming more elegant Oh my god, it's so beautiful when the lights are on this handmade glass is illuminated by the light. Sparkling Very textured It can also be used as a handicraft when the light is off. Separate them Put it on the ground Let's make it into a circle first . Use a pen to press the shape of the carved mirror frame to draw a circle Just follow this line distance. The other two are also marked . The following block is set Conic lines Got to tear them all down. Draw the line again The line is drawn Remove the outer frame. Just dig the holes along the drawn lines . Haven't cut it yet. Looking at these boards, I started to worry. OK The next step is to cut I lost my 800 yuan and the beautiful screen in my mind. I have fought for 30 Well, first make a hole in the middle of the board along the line. of the discharge saw can be inserted into Saw along the line Wow, this is a pretty good cut. At first it was fine My hands were numb from the shaking. The cutting is a bit out of control My mouth is numb from the shock Ma Zuzong The sticker is not very round Feeling twisted It doesn't matter Anyway, it can be covered Wow, so light First block completed I haven't scrapped the second one yet. I didn't expect the saw line to be broken. Wow The saw blade is no longer on track . When I pulled it out, it was bent. Get a new one now new saw blade is very smooth to use 5 minutes to finish This is so round Oh my god , I should have used a new one from the beginning. There are too many details in the autumn carvings Use a jigsaw What if I have stones or something in my body ? It can shatter me. After cutting, use sandpaper to smooth the edges . I want to collapse lace Now this color is not suitable Fortunately, this paint is not waterproof Otherwise it can't be wiped off The effect is not very obvious when wiping with a cloth Or use a brush? It's too much effort of the towel has obviously fallen off again Plus the gray behind There is also a little old effect than just brushing on a white screen It turns out that there is no road in life that is walked in vain. Just paint the color once. After the second coat, the color is more positive overall color is a bit light Doesn't match lace How can I fix this ? Suddenly I remembered that I still have a darker paint Try rubbing a little bit on it first. I think this color looks much better. It immediately has a retro feel. I was clever again. Finally, lace The more fragmented ones should be the crabapple pattern Lay the lace flat on the board Fold the sides Then nail it on with a nail gun You have to put lace If you tighten it, it will be soft and ugly. Finally, glue the removed wooden strips back on. alright Sure enough , a darker color matches lace better. The carved part in the middle is more difficult to fix. Use a nail gun for wide areas too detailed , you can only use much more harmonious after this change It has a French-Chinese elegance . The carved shapes above are more refined and textured . This is a perfect success in changing one's fate. Put my bed back up. See if it fits And my French retro four-piece suit Not bad, not bad The overall look is quite good. Just push the door in. It is both a cabinet and a bed. It's too crowded . Move this cabinet to the other side . Hahaha How to speak I lost about 100 pounds. My second chin is sticking out. It's just right here. It does not affect walking installed on the cabinets also need to be removed Put it over there Last time I saw the master install it oh nice The location is just right Water dispenser on My Projection Put it here Just enough to project it onto the opposite wall These two paintings are a bit of a hindrance. I took it off and now I can watch movies in my bedroom . Can watch while sitting on the bed or lying down Especially exquisite Exquisite retro Outer diameter 5060 Inner diameter 3040185 One of two Originally said to put one next to the bed Too symmetrical Seems a bit strange Just put one. Clothes Oil Among the paintings I bought during the event Selected a still life The only backplane left last time was a 3040 one . Use nano glue to stick the canvas on Just cut off the excess Then install the buckles and hooks earned by the merchants I can In fact, you can just put it on top But I'm afraid that I'll just stare at two hooks. Hook on the face The room smelled delicious instantly. The other box is on the table. There are green plants next to the cabinet There will be life soon . Can you help me breathe out the formaldehyde? Along the cut shape boards on a wooden board Cut it out with a jigsaw This time the cut was perfect. Use a grinder to smooth the rough edges. This is the leftover board from making the screen. I have to wash off the paint on it. Wait for it to dry Bought four pillars Spent 150 for two heads The board is dry. Mark the points for punching holes on it Punch holes in the four corners The wooden pillars are also drilled with holes Or use this double-headed screw Connect the planks to the pillars Two pillars were installed on one side of the second floor . Fix it with nails And his feet Bought this metal universal wheel Before installing it, you have to install a pillar to connect it. Two round columns Just cut two with a saw . Grind the surface and stick it on the foot I want to add another pocket Put some snacks or something On the remaining wooden board Draw the board needed for the bag This board is just right it off piece by piece . these pieces too. Paint the station first The large cabinet in my room is made of old glazed wood. This small table has to be the same color. Or use wood color as base Dark wood peach color Brush the surface after it is dry The varnish has dried up Press the metal universal wheel on It's going pretty smoothly . Install the small bag first Painted side facing inwards Use putty powder to smooth the nail holes Then paint the outside with old glaze ink color with two nails . alright It's solid wood . Just enough for me to demonstrate 's also beautiful when placed aside . As expected, the furniture with old texture has a taste It's so moldy that it looks like it was just dug out of the ground. First, pull out the bubble nails that are about to turn into bronze . Disinfect it again Okay, use this material. And a very retro and girly material French rose color matching Although a little girl But not tacky Put it in the middle Use a flower pattern to spread the fabric along the shape of the chair Cut it out and put it in the center Hammer it in with bronze nails The round seat There will be some extra fabric at the end. Can be pinched into a fold Nailed it on 8- bit ones are also nailed on with bubble nails both sides are made of solid color fabric Wow, this transformation is so elegant . A little more refined than the other half The line is connected Hmm, looks familiar. No this pair And this pair Polish it again Two sides are completed Bought a sea sponge for the sofa It's such a big piece. I'm already wondering where to put the rest Draw a shape on the cut side Cut two pieces Cut a layer of soft and put one Punch a hole in the middle The wooden stick also has holes Use nails to connect the planks and sticks So the two are installed. I need to add another stick in the middle. I have to change the size of the ones I bought before. Buy this small double-ended screw Small posts and wooden sticks with holes connect the two with stud screws . I thought the other side could be screwed on too . no on here . The other side came down. How to connect to another one? The stick cannot turn I turn the big stick So funny It makes me look so stupid. Stupid or not? Anyway, I pressed it. Use this stupid trick to press the others up as well. The last stick cannot be twisted Leave a small pocket for the screws on both sides This place is smoothed It seems to have nothing to do with bells and drums now . The colors of the bell and drum heads are quite similar Wait for the coloring Color it up like Brushing twice is almost meaningless Brush three times just right felt it as soon as I finished coloring it . Use the same fabric as the two chairs for the seat cover into the shape of the soft bag Fasten it with a nail gun This piece of fabric also has this wavy lace. How can we use it to show our ancestors? The needle method tries to make the thread invisible Finally, the end This can cover one side Have to find another one This one is quite suitable A bit of country style Then sew another circle on it using my ancestral needlework . Then stick the lace you just selected alright Much better than the limp state just now . Spend 350 yuan to get two beautiful stools Can you check it our money-saving decoration reliable ? Let's start with the 800 yuan one Gypsum board floor-to-ceiling wardrobe You can wear my autumn clothes and long trousers in winter. A small hat Load-bearing capacity OK Storage is also OK There are still many spaces Now I can buy nice little skirts again 800 pieces of gypsum board to build a wardrobe Get off safely The small curtain was drawn like this . Clean Neat and tidy The kitchen is not yet decorated my pots and pans in the sideboard first Just right Release There is also a bathroom I don't know if I don't put it down. You will realize how much storage space is after you put it away. This is the cabinet where I used to store tableware. Grievance As a bathroom side cabinet This blue one is pretty nice too. doesn't match that bathroom Change the blue to the same white as the toilet and wash basin color of the table corners and tops Glass also has to block this picture Cut the picture to the right size. Use nano glue to stick to the back of the glass This is both beautiful I can't see any messy stuff inside. Also look at the size Just put it in The color matches the bathroom Put all my messy daily necessities in it This is so neat compared to the storage rack . After everything is cleaned up, it's time to deal with the most important issue of safety . Don't look at this house, it's only 160 square meters With 6 exterior doors much for 6 exterior windows I didn't expect it to be so big Wireless and then directly connect to the power cord There is no power supply for monitoring . Have to take a section For beauty Bought PVC cable duct 3 yuan for a two-meter stick Split from the middle Paste it on the wall here Buckle it here . When laying out the line on the roadside , choose the least obvious route. The first one is under the window nail- free glue Cut off the excess Cut a small hole at the bottom for wiring The line can be turned . The third one is glued to the wall Follow the eaves outside and stick it over like this The bottom wire groove is glued Determine the camera 's position Drill 4 holes with a cement drill bit Install the expansion bolts Fix the monitoring bracket with nails Okay, it's pretty solid . screw the monitor on with screws . This surveillance camera is facing east. Head height etc. My surveillance camera is facing southwest This kind of small power strip has copper wires that cannot be removed after the pins are cut Fix it to the eaves with cement nails I also bought a coil of wire This one also pulls out the copper wire Connect with the plug strip Tie with insulating tape Tie another circle outside Prevent water ingress Then you can put the wire into the wire slot Fasten the panel A bit difficult to buckle I was hit on the head Disconnect the line in the middle the wire into the air conditioner vent Put on the last panel and it's done. Our results today are very good Although it does affect the appearance of my windows New Line Use cement nails to nail it along the bottom of the window sill. I wanted to connect the wire to the plug. Later I found that I could press a plug The plug in that socket just now happened to be unused. These two lines are also connected together The wire can leak out of the wire groove Use wire trough to make it more beautiful Plug it in and try it out It's on. It's on. Plug in the monitor 's power cord the next day. Hey, it's bright. The power cord is a bit long Hidden in the wire trough Quickly connect to wireless and see if the picture works Wow, the photo is pretty clear. You can also see it here The first surveillance There is also a This house has all aspects On doors and windows night , I lock it with the remote control and Arrange all 12 doors and windows for me hardened the steps in the upper part of the yard. After arranging the swing Finally it's time to renovate the yard below It's a terrible sight. This pile of things is really detrimental to my mood. Let's solve it today. 's start from the west side . It is 5.95 meters . I asked the merchant to cut the anti-corrosion cloth for me. Sent I bought this thick one . Can save some money It's just a shielding effect Just use a good keel These cost a total of 1,152 But before installing I need to move the decoration materials I piled up against the wall . There are some bricks. It can be used to build a flower bed later. The tree next to the wall is really a bit sloppy. trimmed the excess needles . It's much fresher now After cleaning The whole wall is much fresher. Next, it's time to work coolly. First press this side two meters 45 Use three keels to evenly space the two meters 45 put the antiseptic wood horizontal board on the keel Fasten it with nails The next one is close Just nail the last one on . A 3- meter - high fence requires 35 boards I thought it would take three or four hours. I didn't expect 2 hours 2.5 meters is about right Let me try the new paper I bought . Um Is this the right position ? Wait till he dries. Drag it to the wall and you can install it. First use a drill to drill holes in the wooden keel Use a cement drill to drill holes in the same location. Press the expansion bolts Four expansion bolts are installed on one keel There are 12 in total on this side . Put the antiseptic wood back Use this giant long nail to drive into the expansion bolt This will firmly fix it to the wall On the experiment success method as above to make the remaining ones. Paint and fix it to the wall with expansion screws Looks pretty simple I did it for three days. And I still do it until 9 o'clock every day . of paper Finally, 4 days later My nearly 9- meter -long wooden wall is finished. satisfied with the effect achieved with 1,000 yuan Well- arranged shape I made a semicircle A little more cement Apply it in the cracks of the bricks This is like laying a foundation. , you can build the first floor Apply cement on bricks Place the whole brick along the curve of the flower bed Then use a hammer to smooth it out. I have 5 layers of this . It doesn't matter It will look beautiful if you plant flowers The grass roots I bought before need to be filled with soil and planted with flowers alright Planting flowers Our natural flowers here Margaret can be found colors of plants planted under the tree . Good and bright After planting, apply some fertilizer Water thoroughly There is a dead root in the curved pond. Can't plan it off Digging a small field with leftover fertilizer Just covered him This tree root Now is the perfect time to put up a solar lamp A small oak pine was planted in front of the sculpture. The rest of the place I chose African popcorn and Luoxinfulai curved flower pond is a natural white -green string I'm already starting to feel the atmosphere. Now they look so beautiful . requires precise dimensions I'm afraid I can't do it well. Just find a professional master to order it Waited for half a month Finally done Can be installed Finally , I saw I have these cabinets . Several cabinet doors Two panels I actually spent 2,300 . I rely on these cabinets to hold the scene I'll go under the cabinet first. Installed height- adjustable plastic corners I thought they were all made of wood. Just when I questioned This little thing is not useful . I didn't expect him It will come in handy in the next second here for the corner cabinet Did the master say that ? I said it's the same as this I didn't say He covered it just right Let the master try to adjust the cabinet to the maximum Just flush with the windowsill corresponding stove cabinets were also adjusted The sink and other things have also been adjusted is still ordinary after installation I didn't expect that once the doors and panels were installed It changed immediately . A lot neater Finally a bit French Just choose a simple old bronze color The most important the two-piece ceramic sink I bought ? This one is installed The soul of the kitchen I just happened to have a lot of wood planks left . While the master is still Ask them to cut two boards according to the size Burnt brown walnut color that is close to the panel color nail- free glue to the windowsill Just glue the board on. The sealing foam of the window is still exposed on the side Glue another side piece on. You just finished solving it and saw that the master left a gap What dust protection ? can clean it up a bit easier after I pick it. So my cabinet was installed smoothly . There's a drawer on top. My oven is below. This is a corner cabinet. I bought two rice buckets and put them in Just this amount is just right for me. also put in my various dry goods and fast food The cabinet that previously stored dry goods You all say the curtains are ugly After picking it With my cabinet cabinet This is a 300 cabinet. Can store his kitchen supplies Just enough Make all my things iron Triangle support frame on the wall Measure the location Fasten with expansion screws Both are fine the wooden board on the shelf and fix it with nails . Okay, then put up the decorative paintings I like . Small flower pot my little sugar jar and nut jar up there. Wow iron clothes rack with white storage rack It's so exquisite. Suddenly I want to count this as white too Just do it In fact, brown walnut color is also good looking more pastoral style my new cabinets . Painted to ivory white Can match the cabinets it in the original position It's better to go back Change to ivory white The style is different too . Now it's more refined It matches my cabinets better. And my kitchen utensils I finally have something to put flowers on. Semi-embedded stone pool It's so romantic. These things worth several dozen pieces are piled together the ritual in my life. Freshly made vegetable rack The basket size is not right I bought three large This time it's just right It's such a big frame It is definitely inconvenient to put heavy objects in it. bought some of this too. Damping slide rail Bought three Nail it to the middle partition. Place one on each side Place the basket on the top rail Use cable ties to secure the basket and rails together Cut off the excess I tied 4 in each basket . Push and pull is very convenient Install the remaining two in the same way. Such baskets are ventilated Vegetables are not easy to spoil when put in You can put pumpkin, sweet potato, and potato in it. I also changed the small shelf above to ivory white. The style is similar to the cabinet My 10 square meter kitchen is now finished . Although I was pretending and suddenly changed my style But isn't life a process of trial and error ? In limited conditions More sense of ceremony Give yourself more moments of life Only then can you be crazy In love with white Let 's try it now that I used this kind of paint when I was decorating the kitchen . Paint it the same color as the wall Just brush it I'm tired of watching it anyway. Change your style, change your mood After brushing twice, it is almost even. Look at the results wow It's my wall. The furnace white paint also looks good Wait until it's dry and put it back and try again Do n't say it. Do n't say it. This change is indeed much more elegant The whole space is light . Hang it on the wall now . hang it on the nail where you hung the mirror before. Wow, this fireplace is so suitable occupied by senior The table next to it is compared with the current fireplace. A bit bulky. Move away, move away Put it on the opposite side first Hey, suddenly found out I used a cheap marble table for the upper part of the cabinet. Because I might play tiger in the future Buy a marble one . The table legs are very stylish This side is purple . Blinded my eyes There is still some tile paint left from the previous bathroom renovation. Just in time for use This is marble. You have to use tile treatment agent to apply a base first Apply evenly Wait for 20 minutes and then wipe it clean with clean water Wait until the water on top dries up. Once dry, you can paint it The last time, the remaining one was tea white. Slightly yellower than the wall color Fortunately, it is not inconsistent The first coat was not very even. The second time is almost the same Oh, this change makes it look better Quickly dismantle all the original things. Make room for my craft table Results This screen doesn't seem to fit We can't bear this . A layer of superposition Make the red less noticeable It's better now than before. Replace the original one inside Very dirty and earthy First use pliers to tear off the edge banding . Then remove the cloth inside. No need to buy nice fabrics This is machine woven . Super retro color matching so much cheaper , only 20 Pick one and place it right in the middle of the chair. Cut off the excess on both sides . Use this ancient lamp color bubble nail Pin the fabric to the chair along the edge We have changed the wood board many times. Just make it into a rectangle. Okay middle board is also fixed with nails . are three nails in total . The storage rack inside is ready I also designed a lined wooden board 45 degree cut at both ends Wrap them around the outside of the shelf Use connector Connect the shelves to the wooden lining four sides are fixed L -shaped connectors to fix the corners. The shelf is assembled I also painted this the same color as the fireplace . The shelf is finished. The frame also needs to be changed new book was revised, it immediately became more low-key and steady. time for it to dry Install the hanging hook on the shelf The wood board and the picture frame are quite heavy. of 6 were installed According to the position of the hook Install expansion bolts on the wall Screw in the nails Only a small head is exposed 6 expansion screws are installed The frame is also dry Hang the items next to it. Two machine-made fabric paintings from my collection A picture of lake and landscape matches my craft table A European seaside It matches my table very well. This completes my handcraft area. Now it doesn't look messy, I'm leaving There 's no light. I want to make another paper-cut painting chandelier Ann , I'm super big. original look is also very beautiful But I want to be dreamy Just change it reluctantly Remove all the glass The whole is a frame composed of iron carvings I think this silver with carving A little bit exaggerated And silver doesn't match the flowers of the grass I used acrylic paint to paint it darker. replace the light bulb with a small pull-tail light bulb of Fu5 This will change the frame of the lamp. Although it looks ordinary now But it doesn't matter are made of thicker paper . according to the template you just carved. Curl the edges with your fingers Roll in all four directions This is how it looks like when the roll is finished . Take some white magnet the silk into three equal parts with stamens hook is bent at one end of the wire Apply some white glue to the stamens Adjust the shape a little bit One stamen is complete paint them with acrylic paint . That 's it after the class . Wait for the paint to dry Select 6 branches and twist the wires at the roots together. One stamen is done. Get up and make petals Fold the paper Then cut according to the template Can cut out many petals at a time Stick a piece of white iron wire in the middle of the petals Then use a wooden stick to press the wire into the slotted paper . White flowers do not need to be painted Just do the styling Use a stick to press out the petals in your palm One petal is done. Petals facing outwards Six petals are arranged outside the pistil them together with green masking tape . One flower is done. it's quite similar to the original picture Just make sure there are a few roots on each side of the flower that are easy to wrap around . The flowers and leaves are wrapped with masking tape . Can be directly wrapped around the rattan I like the mood It's a little sparse. Oh, now I have a soul Like a flower blooming alone in an abandoned manor Desolate and fresh I even feel like there are elves living in it. Really good b infinite now and see what the effect is. Oh my god This is so clever. Hanging there like an oil painting Every time I cry I was touched by my own hands and head again . I didn't think about it when I installed it. This light definitely won't work. I have always liked painting. Size 19 measured 1749 pieces Wooden keel I bought 4 wide and 2 thick ones One 4m long Mark the keel according to size Cut it down with a saw Lie in a row and paint first I used the leftover ivory paint. I brushed it three times in total Thicker paint makes it look better quality next to the window first to see if it fits the window frame. Must be safe Use a level to locate the vertical line Then straighten the frame according to the line Otherwise, installing the window frame will affect the opening and closing Observe that the three sides are perpendicular Use a drill to drill holes under the wooden keel expansion bolt into the hole Level gauge screw thread Attach the wooden frame to the wall The top and bottom ends were cut to make the remaining antiseptic wood Width 18 cm Thickness 1.5 is just the right proportion when placed together I'm afraid I'm not solid enough. Each end is nailed together with two extra long nails . Then try it The carpentry work is so delicate . A few millimeters will spoil the food. Must try first Except for the gap left for the lotus leaf Basically consistent on the right are also quite suitable. Just when I was wondering, the window frames were all installed. I bought this lotus leaf accessory This is the control lever. This is two kinds of lotus leaves One at each end One end is retractable You also need to drill holes on both sides of the wooden frame to install the blinds. Generally the blinds are 6 cm wide The distance between each hole is about 5 cm let the leaves hold it. These window frames have a total of 200 holes. Nail the movable end of the connecting key to the blade I found out I have been drilling holes and nailing nails in the past few days. I played all afternoon and finished it all. Take the blade connection key and insert it into the hole you made yesterday. Press the end of the wooden frame that cannot move. Then push the retractable One piece will be fine Been busy for so long Finally saw some results I didn't expect An Ye to be so simple Can also be safe for half a day No matter how good your physical strength is My patience is running out. This is the small round one I bought . Drill holes on the control rod according to the distance of the blades screw the other end of the fitting onto the wooden stick. You can control the opening and closing of the blades The light and shadow coming through is so soft the other end onto the previously built frame It will be fine once it is exposed to the sun I didn't expect it to be so tight . Perfect, beyond my expectations . To be honest, I spent more than a week making the blinds. I really broke down in tears several times When the installation is completed I saw he was so beautiful All I have left is wow I'm really awesome . And the soft light coming through the leaves It really feels like a movie Even the house outside has become more beautiful The line width is the same as the blinds horizontal frame The height is consistent with it This is like an extension of the blinds. This height is just right to connect with my arched beam. here too I will also make blinds in the future The second row is designed with 2.5 cm nails About 10 cm from the previous line Add thin strips More design sense A bit more retro Arched beam columns Here you need to cut a 45 degree angle sideways It looks better if you nail it this way. nail a 2.5 cm nail under the window frame This way the nail will be blocked by the socket Saw off the section that blocks the socket according to its size. This way the nail won't be blocked . All straight lines are nailed Empty walls on both sides The square shape I designed Use 4 cm wide wooden strips To do this, you need to draw a 45 -degree angle on the wooden strip first . I want a narrow strip The length and width of the high wall cut are 82 31 lines drawn Cut along the edge with a small table saw In fact, the cutting speed is already very fast. But due to the large number I draw and cut It took me half a day to finish cutting. Use a level to nail the edges to the wall 13 cm above, below, left and right A one-meter wall can hold just two squares. I thought nailing the lines was a small project. It will take at most half a day to finish. I didn't expect to calculate the distance Correcting and nailing Keep the socket out of the way Just stare at the upper half Part of it took a day and a half I also said that this issue could be released earlier . I didn't expect it to be a big project. Pay attention to the squares below the nail Where there is a socket, use nail- free glue It's exciting to nail the wire with a nail gun following line There are eight or nine more under the windowsill than above . Add the following I nailed it for 4 days The nails hurt my arm and it seems like I have strained the muscles I breathed a sigh of relief when I finished the last one. Then use caulking agent to fill the gap This big project is halfway done. oops Look at this spectacular I can imagine it. One day to finish Wow, that 's the taste. Finally right Every time I hear poetry rain, it seems like an old house in Shanghai It's really not in vain that I've been busy these days. I have to rearrange the furniture. Must be worthy of this environment I spent 160 to buy a huge carpet 2 meters by 3 meters Wow This carpet matches my room very well. I still prefer the bed to be placed directly on the floor That lazy feeling Then put on my newly bought warm and gentle four-piece set I can't imagine being comfortable. Fortunately, this is my home. always over Much simpler Really beautiful and practical Still very artistic The following make up for the missing March Yueling Flower God Peach Blossom Peach Blossom The most well-known one is the beautiful love I just found out today It can also be used to compliment eyebrows It seems that you can only distinguish them by color . Pink for stamens Light pink and white for petals Finally know Why do we use peach blossom to describe a woman's beauty? It's so bright, it's spring. The sixth one is finished It took a total of 5 days Wow The glued and un-glueed ones are two completely different worlds. I was originally worried that the Chinese style of the floral pattern would not match the decoration. looks like an old house. It's so beautiful already Can't wait to make the rest every day I broke a pot a few days ago. The pot is gone but the lid is still good. Throw away Remove the upper handle Wipe it clean with an alcohol pad Glass things In my case , all of them are cloisonne enamel specials. when I was doing the Twelve Flower Gods last time My favorite lily is not in it Let's make this a lily-style cloisonne enamel watch . This time it really becomes cloisonne enamel. I'm leaving. Daily card powder Cut the silver threads straight Bend the silver wire vertically along the lines of the line drawing Cut off the excess This glass is slippery. Hard to stick You need to apply thick glue to make it stick firmly This silver thread is really very good . Take a piece of unused density board and draw a circle with the pot lid. Cut it off and use it as the back plate of the watch hands There's a hole in the middle. Convenient string axis Density board color is not good looking String it in white Buy a bunch of cars Can be used as a night light After sticking it, put it in the pot lid and turn on the light to see the effect Wow, it looks better with lights So elegant , press the pointer again Silver pointer . the lid handle upward Plus these ten dollars oops It seems like the light is on. Not only beautiful, but also can be used as a watch, but also as a night light The best of all worlds Light green glass rod face Muddy color Two-stage burning into balls Straight line clamp Clip out the texture Get a switching stick Slowly pull it into the shape of a leaf Take it down and soften the edges Bend a few wavy edges with tweezers Bend both sides Bend it and burn it to soften it Then bend it into the shape of a Christmas tree A leaf Burn it to different depths Seventy-seven forty-nine pieces of different sizes face turned red from the roasting The more we cook , the better it will be. I think making leaves is easier than burning circles . Then burn the leaves onto the green glass rod Be sure to put the glass rod and the root of the leaf Slightly melted together Otherwise it will fall out of shape and won't fit You can adjust it after it is softened. It's quite troublesome to make a Christmas tree this way It took me a whole morning to finish. But the effect seems to be So successful Burn a little star on it Add some red, white and yellow dots to make it look more like The sunshine is so healing. Burn a Christmas wreath Make it simple Green sticks burn soft Pull with tweezers It's in the shape of a small leaf. Just pull him ninety-nine eighty-one Glue the leaves to the ring in one direction . A little on the wreath The red dot wreath is completed good in the sun Made it for a friend again very popular brushed Christmas tree A small one So cute Two small Christmas trees A small wreath Put them all in my Christmas corner The lighting configuration is very atmospheric haven't decorated my house for the New Year yet . go to the flower market today Bought some flowers with good meaning Make your home prosperous First, put in a lamp to ward off evil spirits and disasters. I like it when it's not blooming Natural and elegant atmosphere The candlesticks are also tied with red bows This year's New Year flowers I want to make a set of My fireplace is not professional . Just go with your feeling Nandina domestica, the bad luck-removing bamboo Let's lay the foundation first Like steamed plum blossoms A little red Happiness, happiness , longevity , success and peace are all there Tie two red strings hanging down next to it. I think it looks pretty good Red fire is over There is also a bunch of wood lilies under the fireplace. Another red flower on the lamp stand Just randomly combine them to create a sense of atmosphere This suddenly feels like the New Year. I also learned the Sprite flower-growing method on the Internet Pour some Sprite into the water Without changing water The flowers can bloom for more than a week The sun is so nice today There are still a few pairs of small lanterns left from last year Hang on curtains Add some New Year flavor to it and it will be the Year of the Dragon Less dragon elements Too busy before the New Year No plate making Come to the market and buy some dragon door stickers with the word &quot;Fu&quot; A picture of the God of Wealth God of Wealth The little dragon paper cutouts pasted on the glass are so cute There will be no holiday on New Year's Eve this year I thought the New Year atmosphere would be less This is not very affected . The SF Express guy who often delivers express to me They all quit their jobs and went home for the New Year . Otherwise anything n't stop the feeling of reunion during the Chinese New Year . I chose some small accessories for my stage. And the most important thing is the self -cut Spring Festival couplets for the Year of the Dragon Get rich Fix my lamp first. day to day Everything is suitable I hope I can be braver in 2024 Be more determined to be yourself Do whatever you want Life is almost halfway over . The biggest regret is I just stayed in my birthplace 2024 , I want to be that brave person Enjoy the world first Happy New Year, everyone!