[CC may contain inaccuracies] Are investors looking past escalation, the wars? investor Howard Marks, co-chair of more than $200 billion in assets under How it could have you with us. It does seem like traders are because even today, all eyes on in Well, you know, the world is chaotic. Some people spend their time trying to I say it's unclear and we abstract from So, you know, we just we just try to out which ones will grow, which one will basis. You talk about how it is about intrinsic Everything else is baloney. market that's overpriced? especially on the S&amp;P. I would say it's high priced. And, you know, you you you think about You compare how it's selling relative And then in my opinion, that should aggressive or defensive. stock valuations, for example, are on That would tell me to be a little less defensive, but not necessarily to get You know, getting out is is really a big Most of the time in my 55 years in this Either you get out and it goes up or you to get back in and it goes up without So, you know, it's just a matter of behavior between aggressiveness and high, as they are a little more But this notion of risk on risk off in white is not fitting for the world we The thing is, right now we're seeing into everything that institutional And usually, traditionally, out. you set out this. don't we're not market timers, we're not And I told you that before the break. You could have said if you had a great 2019. I'm going to get out You could have said, I think that Russia I'm going to get out in 22. attack Israel. You would have been right about the of money. not only do we never know what's going But we also know how the market's going And so to be dogmatic and to say it's Warren Buffett, who always says it best, States, for example. money off the table, more than $300 Why? Valuations are high. You know, people look and they say, Does that mean we should get out? sell? So it's not a broad statement. say be less aggressive, if you wanted to understand. stocks. else. making calls, You know, predictions, But Goldman came out to say that it sees through the end of 2025. GOLDMAN right? Well, that's pretty good, isn't it? on the other hand, Goldman, I think it's four weeks ago in which they said that So as opposed to 10% average return over for the next decade. that's rather cautionary. it's you know, it moderate your On the other hand, a 10% gain between nice. Linda, is that investing in the short And nobody should think they really know And most people approach. It's good to invest in the United States bad to try to mastermind it in the short If everybody gets gives up on get on a few viewers. Investing is a good thing. Do it a lot so that you can build a nest Don't screw it up. a short term basis. years. he has suggested in terms of his cabinet commerce and probably Walsh for How are you looking at that? and how this plays out? Number. Nobody knows. They have yet to be confirmed. What is he going to do? do. in the world? It's complicated. to all these things? on most things is usually quite limited. investment, our economy is in good So United States and or better than most And that's why things are high in the So the situation is generally good, but We'd like to get a good situation at a It's rarely the case. and I don't think it's time to get out. relationship with Elon Musk, for You know, he's been put in charge of the We saw Trump at Musk's events, Spaceship Do you read into the potential of might might gain from that? from that? Well. to that question. situation. a bromance, if you will, between a company. Musk is People have been talking about eliminating fraud and waste for decades. about it. what's going on means that Musk will do past. works. thing which is so unpredictable and worth most investors doing anything So no point piling into Tesla. The reasoning through which Trump's in government produces an improved I wouldn't go there. front and center. China to revive the economy. I mean, I know you see value in some China is attempting something very They had what I call the Chinese They had 10% GDP growth a year for a few When they were coming into the modern built on stimulus. forever. stimulus, but that has caused a growth don't want to have the full brunt of So they're trying to kind of calibrate. They're trying to calibrate the the good growth, but not an excessive rely And and stimulus sometimes leads to It's not hard. I'm hoping they will. They understand the importance of 5% GDP And let me just say, 5% sounds like a But it's a well above average growth Well, you talked about how it's Yes. difficult. Why is it still, you know, full of Well, I think because first of all, it for to come into its own You know, I mentioned before that the situation is doing well, but high The Chinese situation has fundamental But it's bargain priced, which is You know, you can't it's all investing. And with the risk that it's nascent, policies and further tariffs on on the Well, if you if you can tell me what his rhetoric Trump's rhetoric is going to induce Trump back off from his rhetoric, then I that. Oh, you know, I'm not I'm not be able to talk about the end of the instance. recovery in the property sector to confidence? amount of building which is highly capital, adjustment in which the in which the absorbed. growth. And that's that doesn't happen And it doesn't happen because the turns a policy lever. The question is not The question is, Will they will they will they stop stock? designed to create the absorption? And and, you know, describe China as an investable. I've made my whole career buying assets investable. of getting a bargain. on the pile of things that people feel you find the bargains. everything on the pile, but that's where bargains. in China? position in China and have had for a Can you share some of that position in No, I don't go into names. to invest in China And, you know, when the when the have to take care. at that point.