- [Mark Rober] I bet there's cash. - [Player] Oh! - [Mark Rober] Oh dude, This is an escape room. It's basically where you and some friends are placed in a room and you have to solve a to get out in exactly one hour. And today I'm gonna to dominate any type of escape room. And I say proven because me and six of my buddies And even though about half of us had never even done an escape room before, we shattered the longstanding by finishing in 38 minutes with no clues. Next, we tried an even harder room to prove that it wasn't just luck, and there again, we finished in 46 minutes and so the evidence seemed compelling. But for further proof, I had my niece and nephew and a bunch of their friends first try a room without me telling them the tips. They only made it about halfway through at the end of the full hour. Then we walked through and then they went back to a new room with an equal level of difficulty. And this time they finished Now you're probably thinking what qualifies me to be giving tips about escape rooms when I've only ever done three myself? And the answer is absolutely nothing. They're actually not my tips. I track down the architect and designer of the Red Bull Escape He's a college professor. His name is Scott Nicholson. The problem is I live here in California and he's way over here in And while that's typically a 12 hour trip through the magic of YouTube, I knew I could make it there in just a six second travel montage. (upbeat music plays) - [Mark Rober] Okay, so at the Begin Lab at Laurier University with Scott Nicholson. Scott, what the heck do you do? What is this place? - Well, this place is where I make games. Our focus here is actually So a lot of the games we make here have some sort of learning outcome. Our goal is to help get in a playful way. - [Mark Rober] So hung out together for a day as he generously spilled out the information in He even put me through a few challenges and puzzles of my own. And so here are the 10 tips I came away with after hanging out with him. The first tip is to think simple. Think generally. Keep reminding yourself should be able to complete In a well-designed room, you won't need any extra knowledge besides what you can People tend to overanalyze and just go down a rabbit hole. So for example in one room, we found the travel log of a robber, and he went from Washington up to Toronto. Now first we were trying to look at the interstates he would travel on and maybe that was a code, and then we're like maybe we should unscramble And then we realized his path forms a V which happened to be the first letter in a combination lock If you can't find a chances are it's because all hasn't been revealed to you yet. So move on and then come back to it later. The second tip deals with searching. The first thing you should do when you enter a room is for everyone to split up and to start looking for clues and items. Professor Nicholson actually put me through my own searching bootcamp to point out the typical places that things are hidden. - [Dr. Nicholson] There you go. Always look under tables, always look under rugs. They write codes on the back of rugs. - [Mark Rober] Other spots or in pockets of clothing or behind a door in the room. A super common first time mistake is to look in places you shouldn't, for example, you won't find a clue by disassembling a ceiling Another common searching in things that aren't. For example, the bottom and numbers from the factory, but they're obviously not because they don't fit with the theme. Going back to tip one, should be fairly obvious And the more escape rooms you do, the more you'll get a sense for what is and isn't a real clue. Tip three, organize your stuff. As you search the room, put all the clues and So if you found three similar cups like this with numbers on the As you do this, the bigger and it's easier to tell Don't let people just randomly in their hand that You can ask before you start, but almost all rooms have a policy where you use one clue or one lock only one time. So once you've used a clue or item, put it in a discard pile and be sure to leave any key This helps avoid When a team member is working on a puzzle they don't realize has For tip four, now that your team is starting laser focus on what is stopping You are going to feel Even with our record breaking times, about halfway through I thought there is no way we're to finishing. But then you solve one thing and then everything else To help with this, work backwards from the identify the inputs it needs. For example, in this room, and it looks like the key is right here but you need some kind Now there's a cabinet on the wall that probably and it has a lock that needs So now you can focus on clues that will yield and you won't be as - So red herring is something that has no bearing upon the game. It can be something simple, oh, this has gotta be really important. - Yeah. - Yeah. even have red herring puzzles that lead to nothing. As a player, it's incredibly frustrating. And so we've done some studies. So most players hate red herrings because they're a waste of our time. About half designers hate red herrings and will not put them in their rooms. And about half are like, yeah they're okay to have in the room. - By working backwards that are needed, you'll avoid wasting time Tip five is about team roles. According to Dr. Nicholson, poor communication is why teams fail. He has a list of eight different roles that team members can be assigned which I will link below, but the one that seemed the most critical in our experience was project manager. Because it helps alleviate this - The project manager in puzzles. Instead, the project manager is the person people report to and say, Hey, there's a four digit - I see. - And the project manager Okay, everyone we're Someone comes up and says, Hey, there's, there's a Okay, we're looking for five letters. There's a poster over Okay, so everyone take If you're searching for something, you might find it in that poster. So the project manager should keep an idea of what are the active tasks, what needs to be done. - Who's working on what, and keep the game flow going. - But try to keep themselves out of getting buried in puzzles. - That makes sense. a scan of what's happening. - So the first five tips focused but the last half will be about You should be familiar and their inputs because again, if you're working back and you know a lock then everyone could just focus The standard key lock is the most obvious. Then a combination lock for four numbers in a specific order. Or here where it's a combination lock of letters and numbers, but five total. Then your classic dial numbers total, and you Then open it like this. Then you've got this directional lock which is a little trickier from two to 30 inputs. Squeeze down here three times to wipe it clean Finally, you have one of these tricky because they've got but it's good to know they and the order doesn't matter. So one, six, zero, five works, but so does five, zero, six, one. A critical tip with locks you have the right code, have someone else try before you move on. Just given the pressure of the game. We had this tip save us on And finally, you can skip trying to figure out the last digit if you know by trial and error, because According to Professor about half of all escape rooms will have some kind of code that you need to decipher. - [Dr. Nicholson] I've seen again and again, and just knowing what Now, you're not gonna the encoding scheme, but it tells you, ah, we're - [Mark Rober] So the upper left, anytime you see dots and dashes you should be thinking Morse code. Usually it's written, but sometimes it can be long and short or even The upper right is called pigpen cipher and it's often disguised as hieroglyphics. The key will look something like this. So see if you could decode the message. Then anytime you see dots you know you're looking at a braille key. Each letter in braille is And finally, Dr. Nicholson the only time you might is if there are a set of In that case, you match them up with a corresponding So this becomes H E L L O. Tip eight is about written clues. Dr. Nicholson created of the four most common in written text. Pause the video and see separate hidden messages here. The first is the most obvious Look at the watch face. The second are all the So remove the telephone keypad, find the secret. Next, and this one stumped in one of the rooms we did, is to just look at the capitalized words. The secret code is six, And finally, if you look at the first word of each new line on the left side, the secret phrase is The key in each of these that stands out from the normal pattern you would expect to see. Which leads us to our second to last tip. Look for patterns. Dr. Nicholson gave me - [Dr. Nicholson] Now might indicate you need to enter things in the order of red, green, blue. - [Mark Rober] This one but what do you think the code is here? In fact, pause the video if you want to decipher all three codes on the board here. The top is four, three, six, based on the number of sides. This one at the bottom, you just need to count the and then enter them in that order. So three, six, four, one. And finally in the middle numerical notation used So here the code is five, four, seven. Apologies to my colorblind peeps out there because you probably which is exactly the type of reason why you should cycle people through trying to solve the tough puzzles. A fresh perspective is all it takes in many cases. This helped us multiple times. And for the final tip, Listen closely when they're giving their A lot of times they will give subtle hints about issues that trip a lot of people up. You can also ask them high level questions like if they have a one And even if you don't want hints, you can ask them to behind where most people At the end of the day, So it's better to take a hint and feel the excitement than being stuck on a And finally, fewer people Statistically, you'll because you don't have of poor communication amongst 10 people. But there's also a finite number of fun things to do in a room. So the fewer people you have, the more fun stuff that To quote from Dr. Nicholson's Twitter, my policy for the number is the same as the number no matter what the package says, you'll have a better So there you go. Now you know all the best strategies to dominate your next escape room. Thanks for watching. (bell dings) (upbeat music plays) (snowballs shoot)