Tom: Vishen, those were incredibly kind words, And getting to that point where we were able journey that I think a lot of people are going from a place of absolute terror. And growing up, I didn't show any early signs A little embarrassing to put these photos I wish these photos were atypical, but in much all the time. I always had some sort of clown hat on. I actually wore my pajamas out and about on That's San Francisco. Yeah, that was really where I started, and this unending ease that I could do more, I And I felt trapped, but I didn't know what And my own mother, who's always been my biggest the house when I was panicking and didn't I was actually the only person in my graduating Wasn't something that people from Tacoma, You stayed, you went to a state school. My mom still lives less than three miles from So, this is not a place where people go off But my mom always felt like, if I didn't do regrets that she had, that I wouldn't see And that one day I would look back and say, Now what she didn't tell me at the time but I was going to fail. Now my mom is hilarious. She's not Jewish, but you would think she out of the nest, she's been desperately trying And so, one day, I finally asked, I said, Like, literally, you forced me to leave and So why have you worked so hard to get me back?&quot; And that's when she said with nothing but you would fail.&quot; And that was a gift. It was really a gift because at that moment in my life had nothing to do with being given Now, I felt this unease that I was talking And I didn't know what I was trapped in. In 1999, a movie came out called &quot;The matrix.&quot; That movie ended up giving me the intellectual in my life, because there was something limiting There was something that made me feel adrift. And this gave me the vernacular to think about And in the movie, they talk about taking the The red pill, its only promise is the truth. That's it. It's not saying that it's gonna make things It's simply going to reveal the way that the And that, for me, was incredibly intoxicating. And I took the red pill intellectually, and the matrix in and of itself. Now there's people that will debate whether we're actually in a simulation. And it's a fun conversation, but I honestly Because I can tell you right now, today, in you. If you guys know David Foster Wallace, his To a fish, water is so ubiquitous, it ceases Now, we all have that same thing, and it's who we want to become. And that thing is our mindset. It's our belief system. It is so ever-present. It is so ingrained into the fabric of who you don't even notice it. You don't even know that it's real. And this is the thing that impacts your life. It is your inability to see that your mindset of itself. Now when I heard this from Shakespeare, I water, you can change everything, that you whomever you want to be. And in understanding that, things began to There's nothing either good or bad, but thinking And if that's true, then belief itself is And if belief is a construct, belief, if belief it can be manipulated and changed. And this is so important. At any moment, you can choose to believe something Now the weird thing about belief is as soon Why that is, I will never quite understand, us in a space where simply believing it makes If you think you're dumb, guess what? You're dumb. Truly. And you will act in accordance with that belief. And that should scare the shit out of you And I saw myself heading down a path that I was dumb. I had a fixed mindset. I used to only apply for jobs where I knew me because I did not wanna feel badly about But you can imagine the types of jobs that I once lovingly referred to myself as the And I actually had pride in that because what the job, was always being smart, was being me towards my goals. Now, if you don't know this quote, live by &quot;One can have no smaller or greater mastery That's Da Vinci. Da Vinci did amazing things with his life. I wanted to do equally amazing things with And if that's the game that we're playing, can choose at any moment to believe something the moment before, and that that will actually do things that I couldn't do the moment before, where Neo realizes he knows kung fu. And that's like, as funny is that is, that's To me, the very fundamental purpose of life that have utility, and then put that utility than myself. How many skills can I acquire that have utility, something greater than myself? That is, for me, the purpose of life. Now, I don't actually wanna know kung fu. That is not the mission that I'm here to live. But I knew that I had to identify my mission. So what was going to be my mission? Mother Teresa has an amazing quote, &quot;Nobody for the one.&quot; And that really struck me because I realized I was looking at this global pandemic of ill But thinking about my mom and my sister, or when I was 12 years old, that made me wanna Now, at the time, I began thinking about what a technology company. That technology company was not mission-based. It was designed to make a lot of money. And we were making money and we were winning And we were standing in this beautiful conference turned to them, and I said, &quot;I'm completely And there I was, living the cliche of money because I'm a guy that actually understands Money is the great facilitator. Money can make things happen. It's powerful. It has true utility. So, how then, as it's going through my fingers, And the reason is that fulfillment exists Fulfillment has to do with the last part of And that is to exist doing something in service And if you're not able to tap into that, then that you want in your life. This is the central tenet by which I believe You can create yourself. In fact, no one else is going to create you. But if you forget that you're in water, if don't realize that everything you believe if you forget any of that stuff, then you that you wanna be. Man cannot remake himself without suffering, It gives me the chills even now to think about that I wanna become, I'm going to pay a price. And to me, the question that we all have to What do I want to become? And how high of a price am I willing to pay And I will pose to you that the people that at a level that you want to achieve, they They simply know what they wanna become and That's it. Right now, between me and the person I wanna there is a gap of skill set. And that's it. But once you know your mission and once you set your mind to, then you can do the extraordinary. Now, for me, getting out of that space of do with my life, it all came down to needing incremental ways. This is me, 60 pounds ago. And I knew if I was going to accomplish anything of my mind. Now, ironically, there's two ways to get control Way number one is directly going to the mind, very ethereal. It's ephemeral. It's hard to grab on to. It's hard to touch. But way number two is through the body. And so, I decided that my kung fu was going And in that process, I was gonna learn about mom and my sister. In that process, I was going to earn credibility And earning credibility with yourself is so Do it in micro ways. For me, just showing up to the gym every day I said I was gonna do it and I did it. Now you have to understand, I hate working So for all of you crazy people that get an Running for me is like being stuffed into There is absolutely nothing pleasurable about So, whatever neurological thing you guys get been blessed with that. So, for me, showing up in the gym sucks, eating And so, getting to a better place, for me, Thank you. And what that was, was just showing up every It was reading about human metabolism and It was earning a little bit of discipline I can do it again today.&quot; It was not eating something that I wanted And most importantly, and if you're taking my identity. Because at the end of the day, identity and Man: Amen. Tom: Preach. Identity and values drive behavior. So, if you wanna make a change, you have to You have to begin telling yourself a different And the narrative you tell yourself about And if you tell yourself that you're a scared, has never accomplished anything, let me tell kid from Tacoma who never accomplishes anything, You tell yourself that story enough and it But on the flip side, you could tell yourself You learn faster than most people. You're willing to put in more work than most You're willing to read more books than most You're willing to spend an inhuman amount by getting new ideas into the system. And that you will admit that you're wrong your ego get in the way. And you tell yourself that story over, and So when somebody comes and tells you how stupid Tacoma, you go, &quot;You're right. That's amazing. Thank you for pointing out that flaw because because I'm the learner.&quot; And once I switched my narrative to being it only mattered where I was trying to go. And as long as I had that clarity, then I anything I set my mind to without limitation. All right, they're very concrete habits that Once you get your mind in the right place, is what I did. I worked out. Why? Because it helped me gain control of my mind. One, it was micro credibility with myself I said I was gonna do something, I did it. Two, when you're suffering and you're willing that you're willing to pay the price to become And also, and this may be the most important working out, and it has nothing to do with a meteorite, who knows. So I'm not even worried about that. But I am worried about this. When you watch your body transform, you get that you can change, that you can change anything your tricep, your quad, whatever it is that Something that you literally could not do And your mind sees that that's true. Your mind sees that something you couldn't and it begins to ask itself, &quot;Well, if that's Now, for me, finding my center was also a So, I work out first, the next thing I do I do a just breathe meditation, where I'm Then I do what I call thinkitating. During meditating, I get into an alpha wave and unique connections. I'm not worried about whether I'll ever think I am simply interested in the unique connections or after me will ever make because their circumstances And that to me, is what makes each of us a connections that other people might not make. And so, during thinkitating, I take advantage I smash it together with my alpha wave state I read, I read obsessively, because I believe ideas out, and then I keep a list of the most If you're trying to become something, you And then this is the most important piece. I execute. Only execution matters. Burn that into your nervous system, get a Do whatever you need to do to remind yourself, Thinking about it, feeling good about it, But if you have a vision of something you're execute against it... And I don't need you to wanna build a big If you tell me you wanna be the greatest parent are you doing to execute on that goal? What are you doing? How do you define it? What are your deliverables? What are the metrics by which you're judging And by the way, if you don't want a grand But then say, &quot;What I'm trying to do is get I'm trying to experience happiness.&quot; Even that, you can begin to look at ways that Now, I very much subscribe to the theory that it will forever be moving forward. I think that's a good thing. It's one of the most exciting things in my And I have three fears. One, brain damage. That freaks me out. Two, losing my wife, because damn, that woman's And then three, I don't ever wanna feel like I always wanna feel like there's something So, keeping in mind, execution is how you All right, it always starts with having very, From there, this is the secret sauce to executing. This is the thing that you need to do with There's an entire talk that I give on this We've already talked about values and identity Ego is a must. And I know when we talk about meditating, it's possible, and maybe I just haven't been But let me tell you how I've leveraged the I believe people commit suicide when they good about themselves again. Now, here's the scary part. I think that's a reasonable reaction. The only problem is it's a lie. And if you know the Buddhist teaching, there's Whatever you're feeling, whether you're feeling it's going to pass. But if truly you could never feel good about go on? Even serving other people, you do it in part So helping people understand that that will again waiting for them, but that what you is tied to is absolutely critical. Because if you tie it to being right, if you pious, if you tie it to anything that is fragile ego is damaged. And then the psychological immune system kicks choices. So, build your ego around something positive. Build your ego around something that is truly Something that's anti-fragile is not something Resilient things are still defined by their Their breaking point just happens to be far Anti-fragile is, the more it's attacked, the I used to pride myself on being right. I used to pride myself on being smart. Bad news is I'm really not that bright and Really. And the thing... Lisa Nichols, are you here? Oh, God, that woman's in this place somewhere. She gave me some of the most powerful words &quot;You do not get to make me extraordinary as When she said that, I was like, &quot;I really There's something you have that I don't.&quot; And when she said that, I thought, &quot;That's Whenever you look at somebody that's been them extraordinary at your expense. You're capable of whatever it is that they're But it comes down to the mental constructs in your own mind in order to do something So I switched my self-esteem from being right always willing to admit that he was wrong, the person who thought of it, and put more And that became my driver. Now, what did I do with that driver? I turned that change in attitude along with as Vishen said, the second fastest-growing billion dollars, every financial dream I'd But at the end of the day, the only thing and it had everything to do with we set out We set out to actively ask one question - what were failing? And that, for three very different reasons, body, trying to help people live a more beautiful And there were times where putting that value profitable. There were times where we put that value first but that was the driver. And that was the thing that actually allowed this company was different. They could feel that we weren't after the They could feel what we wanted was to help. And in today's world, leading with that, as can have tremendous rewards. The original title of my speech was, &quot;Helping world, I think. &quot;Saving the world is big business.&quot; But after meeting you guys, I realized we differently, because you guys know more than So what is it about? It has nothing to do with who you are today. Don't worry about that. I'm not very interested in the person that I am a far cry from the person that I can I will continue to work to become. So it's not about who you are. It's about who you wanna become and the price Become that person. Change the world. Change yourselves. Do beautiful shit. Thank you, guys.