In March of 1989, Earth experienced one of history. It all started when scientists magnetic areas on the sun's surface--emerging the sun slowly rotated until the region began two solar flares erupted from the sunspots. mass ejections: huge bursts of solar wind, The coronal mass ejections eventually causing it to squish and compress and ultimately In Quebec, Canada, the rapid changes in magnetic but they didn't go unnoticed by the a shield of hard rock that is a poor conductor dissipating into the ground. So they found lines. The geomagnetic storm ended up blacking grid for nine hours. And the first domino of the of equipment known as static compensators. But why a solar flare could trip them offline, You might know that most parts of all modern power and current on the lines slosh back and forth, you live. If you love power electronics, that But if this is kind of new to you, alternating even weirder is that, even though the current power only moves in one direction... under ideal thing that can make the grid behave in funny ways. the grid to produce power and move it through the Let's go out to the garage, and I can show you Engineering. In today's episode, we're talking I've built a model power grid here in the and it probably won't be the last.) I'll complexity as I explain these concepts. And Zap My grid has one power source, right now just a and a load (in this case, an incandescent light circuit you've ever seen. But like I said, essential to understanding the more complicated, how it works on a huge scale. So, here's a There are really only four numbers First is voltage, the difference in electric pipe analogy, voltage is the pressure that other. In my circuit, the battery is supplying the flow of electric charge. In the pipe analogy, I can measure the current as 1.2 amps. Third is It's the size of the pipe. Incandescent bulbs voltage, so it can't be measured directly with of these values are related to each other. That as it gets. Voltage is equal to current times other one with some basic math. For example, 10.1 my lightbulb is around 8 ohms. The final number we does the actual work, in this case, creating is as simple as multiplying the voltage and the me that this bulb is dissipating 12 watts. and it's relatively straightforward for a because none of our important numbers change. Let me swap out the battery with a transformer At first glance, there's no change. The bulb is still measure the voltage by switching my meter to AC: measure the current with this clamp over meter: simplifications of what's really happening on the equipment. This oscilloscope measures voltage over I can insert a resistor into the circuit and that resistor as a simple way of measuring and the green will be the current." You can are constant... unless you trip over all the and over again. This might not be too happens if I switch out the lightbulb with a This is a device that stores energy in an electric in electrical circuits, and they do a funny to my circuit, the graph of voltage and current phase. "Hey... that worked perfectly." The current happen before the voltage ones. That's because the voltage between the plates rises. It takes time results in a delayed response in the voltage. Now, An inductor is basically a coil of wire. but instead of an electric field, it stores electromagnet like you might see in a scrapyard. the screwdriver rattle against the table as the And, we get the opposite effect of the capacitor when time, the current waveform is lagging the voltage. so it creates a delay, this time in the current thus the lag in the current by moving this is interesting on its own, but these little shifts and have even resulted in numerous Remember, that the power consumed by an electrical current. We can do that for any point in time like the lightbulb, the current and voltage is positive. When one is negative, the other any point along the graph, you always get but it's always moving in one direction. For a capacitors), that's no longer the when the current and voltage are opposite power is actually flowing out of the load. In there's no power consumption at all - no work electric field and returned. But there's Of course, most things connected to the lots of devices that we plug in Look around your home for any big motors. dryers, large power tools, and more primarily use and last a long time. And inside an induction magnetic fields that spin the rotor, just like power that flows into those coils just gets sent "So What? Nothing wrong with storing a little less than a sixtieth of a second afterwards." and more importantly, deliver that power The electric meter at your home, in most cases, you don't pay for the reactive power that flows doesn't mean it doesn't come at a cost. It where some gets lost as heat from resistance and the transmission lines have to move, more actually being used in the system. Reactive power system, even though it's not doing any work. Just is also costly. The conductors, transformers, for the total current that needs to move through And that stuff is expensive. It's like if you were a photographer and bought a bunch of props for a shoot from a company with a generous you return everything back to the store. Those for a period of time. And there was a real cost even if you didn't bear it. Imagine if there were It wouldn't be long before such a store wasn't the utility is generous in their return policy, do get charged for reactive power that uses up Even though the oscilloscope graphs just show clever math, you can actually separate the real that oscillates on the grid into two parts, grid independently. I'm going to do my best to imaginary numbers but mostly because it's not (This is already a lot to wrap your head around.) the power triangle. This leg is the measured in watts or kilowatts that you're power that is returned instead of used, measured we usually say that inductive devices "consume" it. The hypotenuse of the triangle is the flows through the grid, measured in volt-amps. If you get this ratio, called the power factor, Take a look at the distribution transformer that a rating on the side. That number is not in watts or microwave, but in kilovolt-amps because it Large users of electricity, like factories and because they use lots of big induction motors. connections to the grid, even if they actually through. So the electric utility installs a meter every once in a while to measure it, so they can reactive power, like we usually get at our homes, the power they store, even though it goes right track of costs. The stability of the entire grid If you've watched some of my other videos on closely match power generation with demands as the frequency of the grid, which needs to stay if it goes too far, the whole thing can collapse. winter storm in 2021. But, it's possible for the to meet the demand because you still have to move lines. Engineers use a PV curve to keep an eye to a load on the system to the voltage it sees. the more the voltage drops, since more power to the load. It's the same reason the lights dim current goes up, voltage goes down. If you you can see that the power lost on a transmission amps; quadruple the power lost as heat. But the the more dangerous things get. There is a point, on the system actually reduces the amount of voltage continues dropping. The generators may can't reach the load because of the limitations of because generators lose control of their speed, Infrastructure is expensive, and building new with legal and environmental challenges too, so limits of its capacity. But, grid managers margin that any contingency, like a generator doesn't push the system over the electrical Loads with lower power factor shift the nose reduces the margin and lowers the voltages making a voltage collapse more likely if some ways to supply reactive power to provide Power plants can adjust their operating but transmission lines have their own inductance through. So, it is usually more efficient and there are several types of infrastructure that motors that aren't attached to anything. to mechanical power, they basically spin freely, or absorb reactive power from the grid. They with the inertia of their heavy rotating mass, as we transition more to renewable sources Another option, and one you're more likely across the lines. Sometimes you can see them installed on poles out in the open for anyone they increase the power factor and boost the during off-peak hours by boosting the voltage are switched on or off depending on system you can see how leaving the capacitors off during and having them on when demand is high Some run on timers to come on during the highest utility's discretion to accommodate the varying all the way on or all the way off, so deciding A third option for reactive power supply, addresses that challenge. These use electronics off to constantly adjust to conditions in the and quickly, making them much better suited to That's why Hydro-Quebec had them installed on lines between the hydroelectric power plants in in the south require careful control of geomagnetic storm threw a wrench in the works. The induced currents in the transformers and along those transmission lines seriously increased the distortions in the voltage and current waveforms installed. The SVCs weren't configured to handle relays designed to protect them tripped, pulling the voltage on the grid dropped, the frequency couldn't disconnect customers fast enough the rest of the system collapsed. Lots and millions woke up that frigid morning with no shutting down basically the entire province for repairs. They learned a lot of lessons that since then. It's just one of many case studies this hopefully a little-less-perplexing One of the biggest challenges as renewables become sources is controlling swings in voltage change. And one of the countries preparing 100 percent of electrical demands using renewable thought was really cool is repurposing old fossil can stabilize those swings, keeping reactive cool country. And if you want to see some of the Productions just kicked off the next season of across the entire country trying to claim as many super creative concept in its tenth season, and You probably know about Nebula now. It's a creators. There are no studio executives deciding and no algorithm driving the content into a making stuff they're excited about with as between you and us. The website just got a huge making it easier to find new stuff My videos go live on Nebula before they come was specifically produced for Nebula viewers who know there are a lot of streaming platforms this cheap or where you know your money is we have a 40% off deal right now. Pay just access at nebula.tv/practical-engineering. but still want to support what I'm doing, once have access to everything Nebula will ever coming soon. If you're with me that independent I hope you'll consider subscribing. Thank you