Glory to God. What an amazing atmosphere. What an of transformed lives. You are the temple of the filled with praise. All right? Open your mouth and mouth and turn wherever you are into a sanctuary. space right now and fill it with praise. Grab pray for each other. Repeat after me. &quot;Father, Now hug seven people and tell them, &quot;You're When you've finished hugging, stay standing. the comments where you're joining us from. we welcome you. We're so glad you're here. Say it out loud by faith. &quot;I'm Also, y'all, we just announced Elevation Nights, later this year. Go to elevationnights.com for Vancouver; Sacramento; Los Angeles; Anaheim; Colorado. Make plans for Tuesday, September 24, Also, today the Lord sent a special word for it is he sent it for. I thanked him before I him that I get to now partner with him say to his children. I'm going to be sharing the I'm using as a metaphor how somebody a good writer, so they hire somebody, because them a good writer. You can hire somebody called represent how the Holy Spirit in our lives Our lives are meant to tell the story of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I was dead and gone and you raised me, I was lost in sin and you found me, Just like some of us have trouble singing on telling that story on cue, so the Holy Spirit but how many know you're telling every day? That's where I really need his help. As you look through the book of Acts, it's the church. We are continuing, 2,000 years later, in the subtitle of the series is Making Sense of Now, if everything in your life makes sense, everybody to the restaurant. Go ahead and else more interesting online. But if there are right now from a natural perspective, I believe his Word. As we worship him he does that, he's going to give you a way to see your I love this story. This is my favorite Bible story this one, though. &quot;One day Peter and John were three in the afternoon. Now a man who was lame called Beautiful, where he was put every day When he saw Peter and John about to enter, he at him, as did John. Then Peter said, 'Look expecting to get something from them. Then but what I do have I give you. In the Taking him by the right hand, he helped him up, and instantly the man's feet and ankles began to walk. Then he went with them into [and doing all kinds of stuff he couldn't do When all the people saw him they recognized him as the same man who used to and they were filled with wonder and The final verse we'll read for now is verse all the people were astonished and came running Today I want to use for my sermon title something when they're getting ready to shoot the scene. these words, but I'm going to use them today Places Everyone! Help me with this. Say it at your neighbor in case they're not paying We're about to have some action in here. Lights, came today. You almost didn't come, but I'm glad &quot;Places everyone.&quot; Something is about important is about to go down. Places everyone. The most beautiful opening illustration emerged brought several friends home from college Charlotte. They were debating what to do with Carowinds is an amusement park in technically in South Carolina, but that's with roller coasters. I was laughing once since I've lived in Charlotte. I made I don't like it. The last time I went to After I said that, Elijah said, &quot;Yeah. Carowinds without missing a beat, said, &quot;It wasn't was kind of profound. I mean, Carowinds hasn't rides and everything, I guess...protocols. I Carowinds has changed since you were It didn't get worse or it wasn't better. That happened to me one time. I wanted restaurant we used to go to a lot as a be Ryan's one Friday night. Do y'all know and then this barbecue place in Ridgeville, I was explaining to them how we would often &quot;What I remember about it is the trash cans were life. I mean, they were so tall you'd have to plate in the trash can after I ate my hash and We walked in. This is how stupid I am. I walked No. They didn't change out the trash cans. I was the trash cans. In my mind you had to jump up the up; I just had to grow up. The trash cans didn't Some of the things in your life that you're asking you instead of changing it. I have several points might find this worth writing down. First, The Carowinds of your childhood will not will still be the same basic concept and stand in lines for two hours, which but different point of view. Graham actually &quot;What happened to corn dogs? Is it just me or did you grew up. Sometimes you change go back to the same place you came from big.&quot; You know what I love about the Peter and John, who we mentioned kind of as called the temple. The temple is a place where their Jewish community would require it. They observant Jews would have gone at least twice sacrifice where the high priest would stand Prayers would be prayed, Scriptures would and worship would be offered to God. Now Peter their lives. Not only did they spend three and a named Jesus Christ, who did things heretofore but they have been filled with the Holy Spirit. They are running over with a new consciousness experiencing God externally but internally. but Jesus said, &quot;I've got something to live inside of you so that even Even when you're in a place that's be far away from my presence.&quot; Adjusting to because the place they've gone all and training... I want you to think about Now, suddenly, they are transitioning from which represented how God was to be worshiped, the body of Jesus Christ, which was broken which was poured out for your sin. So, this. They're going to the temple, but the the template they have been given for how to They're going to a place they're used to they used to be. Corn dogs are falling and the trash cans were taller when I was a changed man. I'm a changed woman. I believe I'll prove it to you with a practical thing. century AD. This is about you. Some of you used to &quot;That place gets on my nerves...the traffic Sunday. They get in my way, and they have those Isn't it interesting that one day you came, you changed. Sometimes we think it changed say this. You tell your neighbor. Maybe you need Maybe they don't need to make the trash cans Maybe some of the stuff you're dealing with Maybe you just need to be raised up to situation that used to trash you, the trash doesn't have the power it used to have, what happens. I hope when you come to church Why did you come today? &quot;I came professional singers who can do that. Why a sermon.&quot; Good. You could have read that you here for a different reason than you in my spirit you might have come to check You might have come to find out &quot;Can I make beneath the surface, you came to change. What's Can I preach this like I feel it or do I need to Places, everybody. Everybody, get ready. I believe God put you in this place even if it's in an overflow, even if it's at and you wish you could be here in person. today to change something. Here's how it works. you come to church. You hear a word. I know it's him, not me, because sometimes will change it. So, it's definitely not me who's and then you change. Maybe you don't change all Maybe your gray hairs don't turn back to black in itself in the moment. Maybe everything doesn't go Here's what happens. Let's say you're a student to the same school, but you changed a little were in the presence of God on Sunday. So, but it's a changed you going to the same school. but it will be a transformed person who shows As the person changes, so does the the same crap kids have been doing for break. It's the same foolishness they're that's going through your mind. It's Now, when you change and you go back to the same the same place, but I'm changed. When changed school becomes changed school because changed in me because I heard a word this week that I heard a word this week that said I can Jesus. I heard a word this week that said the but God can fill me completely and we change in the presence of God, and as You can even show up to a place you home. Look straight ahead right now. I the best strategy is to keep your eyes on that she does, and it simply goes like this: Is it possible that you keep changing places, I was in that relationship, but they were kind relationships. Now I'm kind of suspicious relationship you're running from or is it really it so brilliantly. We were at the mountains, I asked, &quot;Where do you live?&quot; and he said after he said the name of the nice beach... How many &quot;I live at the beach, but sometimes I just &quot;Where I'm always trying to get Everybody is running from something. The from something that you have said is is inside. Now we see how powerful this one Peter and John were going up to the temple at Isn't it crazy that they would be going to the in training, where they have spent their entire different this time. I want you to catch this home not because home is so bad but because You might ruin something by running that God what he had for you. I don't want that for you, they went to the temple. They went to pray. is their sacrifice now. They don't need that it's different this time. Before, they went to the That is a shift that, if you get it, will what God told Joshua. &quot;Every place you set to me is God is not just allowing my life to be Fort Mill until you can get a job transfer God did not just allow you to pass through this flights available and the angels couldn't carry it's for a reason that you're here. It's there was a mission on God's agenda that How many know that sometimes God doesn't I should let that set in. That sentence right doesn't synchronize his agenda with stuff he doesn't let you in on, but the Holy season where you go like... I was thinking It's like, &quot;I hate this place. I'm just doing other day. This is a great one. &quot;How am I not. Wait a minute. Let me check. Are you Jesus? I was talking about how God will only do and that a lot of our stress comes from Here's the flip side of that. Just like a lot not supposed to do, a lot of your blessings aren't even on your schedule. This story proves of things Jesus did in his ministry on the way. Miracle after miracle, Here it comes, so get ready for another one, That means it's coming, but it also means think you're going that God is going to We don't ever want to get so Here's how the text says it. You have to intentional the Holy Spirit is. Every word so you can find a lot in these little Verse 1 says, &quot;One day Peter and John were going were going up, what does that mean? They weren't always says, &quot;Up to the temple.&quot; Part of But part of it is reverential, because they life. Do you go up? Then the fact it says made more powerful by this fact. As they are &quot;Now...&quot; At the same time they're going up is no longer the same place to them that See, sometimes, even though you're you need to do everything God has called you they're going up to the temple at the time &quot;Now a man who was lame from birth was being where he was put every day to beg from Imagine the contrast. This gate is not just gate that looked so good they called it Beautiful. Now, they are going to the temple out of their They are going to the temple out of their routine; He can't go where they can go, and he can't do place at the gate and ask for change. Now, about the morning sacrifice to the evening sacrifice, I always preached that they saw a man at man who was lame from birth was being the gate yet. They hadn't even made it to say is on the way to wherever you're going... Have a thing, but on your way up to whatever you would like to become in his name or whatever help you. I'll cheer for you. I even named my and God wants you to go up, and you are Just make sure that on your way to where you're way. See, they thought, &quot;We've got to get to watch the high priest offer the sacrifice, but this is our community. This is So, they're doing it, they're doing it, and as carried. He is being carried; they are going but God is right there on the way. Now I want want to be yet. Now I want to preach to want to master yet and still feel kind I want to preach to everybody who doesn't to have right now and are in between here and I don't mean he's coming; I mean he's on the letter in between. He's everything in between. &quot;Stay open.&quot; On the way to where you think Are you open to that? I've had this happen so There was a Sunday seven years ago. I coming out to preach. Somebody was out here seat.&quot; All of a sudden, this melody came Worthy is your name, Jesus, You deserve the praise, I stopped and thought, &quot;I kind of like that, got to preach. I've got to get out there.&quot; but why don't you get out there and get something want to give you something on the way to where remember to save my life what I preached [Congregation singing] How is it that what I thought wasn't even seven years later because God gave it to us is on the way. Places everyone. In the name It's on the way. Cry if you have to cry, but We trample on God's purpose sometimes, trying to you can't help this man. You're going to make &quot;Wait a minute. Jesus said he was coming to trying to get to is right here. Wait. This The thing that's right in front of you is as if you can stop and see it. Hallelujah! So stay Stay open. I know you prayed your child They might not marry a missionary. They God doesn't have to ask you what age because you didn't get married when your Now we sit here like gatekeepers of what God Can I preach a little more? It felt like the gate opening, the opening of the gate. to your neighbor and say, &quot;Places everyone.&quot; The disciples have been seeing God do amazing they did without Jesus. Do you know how you I read several times in the Bible... I thought this couldn't walk, like this man couldn't walk, but &quot;Get up, take up your mat, and walk.&quot; His spotless, living embodiment of the Word of this. It's so funny. Verse 6: &quot;Then have, but what I do have I give you. In the Then verse 7. &quot;Yanking him up by the right hand...&quot; going to make me look stupid. You're getting because you progress and mature into it. You this man isn't even looking at We understand that. How many people have people have walked by and muttered under their &quot;Can I have some change? Can I have some &quot;No. No. No&quot;? So, Peter actually has The first thing God is going to have to because we have learned to live in a place anything would come along and violate you would sabotage it and send it away &quot;Look at us,&quot; Peter said. &quot;Look me in the Change your focus. If you keep looking at &quot;No,&quot; everybody who has not recognized everybody who has left you... If you look at that you. You cannot receive a present blessing everyone. This is the day the Lord has made. You Now the Bible says the man is looking you got some change?&quot; &quot;Oh, yeah. I've got for you that you will not... I've got some be back at this gate tomorrow unless God said, &quot;I'm going to give you stop having you beg at places just for because you're going to know in this so I'm not sitting here at this gate tomorrow. If to walk through it.'&quot; That's what makes addiction it's the fact that you have to. It has become God doesn't want you to owe anything to anyone off somebody today. I'm getting somebody even if I have to yank you up. I've had Yeah, just start yanking people up. The thing about it is when you've been rejected direction is almost unthinkable. The possibility last person used you is so unusual. The fact look at all of the reasons you think he shouldn't. Then when I said God could use you you'd of the reasons I'm wrong. Rejection. but come on. He's put there every day. How many Here's what I love about the Lord. God can send it will make every rejection that came before Pastor Steven Furtick. Say it for the one who on the closed door until their knuckles bled. It didn't take everybody in the temple to get and it wasn't Peter; it was Jesus. God can send it will make every rejection that came before it one mentor in your life to teach you everything God can send one experience in your education all in three days. God can if you incubate it... If you set it that one idea can make up for 15 failures, 500 It doesn't matter who told this man &quot;No,&quot; one moment... Get your expectation back. It everything going right. It doesn't take followers. It doesn't even take long. One blessing. One blessing, one word, one new thing... Places everyone. Do you know there. Places everyone. God turns to &quot;Really? We're going to do it today?&quot; &quot;Yeah. We're going to do it today. Today is the day. They've been preaching. They've been and today I'm going to show ol' Peter has been using his mouth, but now So get down there. Places everyone.&quot; &quot;Places everyone. Everybody, get &quot;Yeah, he's ready. They're carrying him right &quot;Okay. Turn. That's where I want it...right there.&quot; Before he gets to the gate... Peter and John are Okay, perfect. God says, &quot;Places everyone,&quot; and the places they planned. I need three people because that's where I am right now. Isn't it good To know one blessing from his hand can make know that with one blessing from his hand he can I didn't need to preach is the part I saved for the worst for last. I did it exactly backward. The Bible says in verse 11... This would be a When all of the people heard about the man who was astonished. Look at verse 11. &quot;...and came running A colonnade is a porch with columns that support a columns called Solomon's Colonnade on the eastern Jesus walked through there once in John, chapter the place where he saw Jesus do it, because the to do is do the last thing you saw Jesus &quot;All right.&quot; I don't even know if they because it was a commotion. There are thousands So, Peter says, &quot;Everybody a colonnade is a covered place. Notice in verse but he chose to stay with them. He's but he's no longer being carried; now For everyone who is refusing you need to come out of the season where you're to strengthen you to do for yourself. It in your own strength. Even when he wasn't So, I'm not carried, but I'm covered. Oh, I love but I'm not doing this by myself. That but I'm covered either way it season of my life I can trust God Now, the danger in this is we think if we're in I said 'Yes' to the thing. Okay, I volunteered supposed to be.&quot; We think everything is going now at this point in the party you're expecting he preaches, too, and he lets them have it. Talking about, &quot;You disowned the holy and but God raised him from the dead. You missed and you all need to repent.&quot; 2,000 did. One dude having a changed life He's standing there. Dare I say it? He's and he's turning into a pillar himself. standing under what he's becoming. He's standing Look at what happened when Peter preached so verse 3: &quot;They seized Peter and they put them in jail...&quot; &quot;Wait, Jesus. But I Jesus. But I helped that man, Jesus. Jesus? Shouldn't I be getting commission on No, they put them in jail until the next &quot;But many who heard the message because you're not there to see While everybody was getting their changed life, get determined in your spirit that &quot;I will purpose I carry.&quot; &quot;I'm in this jail, but but Jesus is working. I'm in this While they're in jail, all of the rulers are this?&quot; It's not what they did for the man; it's thrown into jail. &quot;We can't let them run around completely reject our power if they find out Jesus we'll decide.&quot; You have to imagine the man who &quot;Hey, where are Peter and John? I &quot;Um, actually, Peter and John had to go to jail, because what was free for &quot;Dang! I didn't mean for them to have man. I was doing the best I could. He ask him to be healed. I just wanted some can I do anything to help? I know I'm not much of In my imagination I like to think... I know your imagination.&quot; That's your problem. No, that's in a galaxy far, far away,&quot; but this We are supposed to come to this Bible with So when we find ourselves like, &quot;Okay. I just doing my job, and I feel but I feel like I'm in prison for something, So, we read this. Imagine maybe Matthew, one &quot;Actually, there is something you can do. to give a defense before the Sanhedrin, and for what they did. So, when they are &quot;Okay, cool. I can totally do one thing I know how to do it's be there, See, this man, because he was paralyzed, has He knows how to be there. So they say, &quot;Yeah, just be there. Peter is &quot;And you want me to share a little something?&quot; &quot;No, no, no. Don't say anything. We don't even know if you're saved yet. Don't So, they call Peter and John. They say, &quot;All are being called to account for an act of kindness but the God of our fathers raised this man The Bible says after Peter preached, the people I'll show you how I know they weren't impressed. courage of Peter and John and realized That is not a compliment. That's like the &quot;That was actually pretty insightful.&quot; I me about that sentence you just said.&quot; ordinary men...&quot; Places everyone. You don't show up. You don't have to understand; you They saw their courage. Do you know how it there after he launched a thousand missiles curse God and die, and you say, &quot;Though he slay &quot;When they saw the courage of Peter and John and they were astonished and they took note every experience they had with Jesus they saw him feed somebody, Every time you show up, it is and it will pay dividends in your future. Places every note you write down and every song you learn so you can sing a new song the glory of Christ. It says when they heard &quot;But since they could see the man who there was nothing they could say.&quot; It goes they took note, but when the man stood shut up the Enemy? Stand there. Do you Do you want to back down the feeling of depression two words for you, baby. Stand there! When they there's no point, stand there. Every place you stand there. Don't walk away. You are the one Somebody stand to your feet right now and do you know your place. Stand there. Stand there Stand there with your legs wobbling. Stand there one who used to...?&quot; &quot;Yeah, I used to, but look at there. Don't argue. Don't quit. Don't commit Don't call 15 people who don't are not going back to the gate. Jesus, keep me near the cross, Free to all, a healing stream, Places everyone. This is where it happens. In the cross, in the cross, Till my raptured soul shall find Places everyone. When the person changes, so as an emblem was an instrument of torture, person of Jesus Christ died, the place now the forgiveness of your sins. Stand See from his head, his hands, his feet, sorrow the blood be applied. Stand there and let the all that man did. &quot;I can't sing, but I can stand but I can stand here. You need me You need me to show up? I'll show up. Watch this. This man looked like an extra in witnessing power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Heads bowed, eyes closed. This is not a joke. This is a place you might look back on and and I was changed.&quot; You can change. The trash change. The pleasures of sin won't seem so I offer you my hand. Places What are the chances you would be here to hear day...? God must have something happening right now think it's just about what you can get. Maybe up and you need to get strong for it. Stand today who need to come to the cross. I believe As I offer you this prayer, this prayer is a location. God doesn't live in one building. so invite him in. The Bible says if you believe in your heart God raised him from the I'm going to offer a prayer. We're praying for the benefit of those who are coming Heavenly Father, today is my day of a Savior. I believe that Jesus Christ is and today I make Jesus the Lord of my life. and rose again to give me life. I receive Raise your hand on the count of three. raise your hand. God bless you. Get up and we have the victory.&quot; I'm going to be the appreciate his grace. I'm not standing Paul said, &quot;Stand, therefore.&quot; Put High-five 10 people and say, &quot;Stand there.&quot; clap your hands and praise him. Not me. Praise all you've got? That man started walking and Every time you get a change, give a praise. you're on your own. I thank God for Holy Spirit flowed to somebody today, and it you were crippled in your faith. Stand there. The Devil is going to be you to quit.&quot; &quot;Nuh-uh. I found out let God fight my battles. I'm going to &quot;I got changed today. I changed my mind. Well, we have to go now. You can't stand there, because somebody else wants to sit there. if I close here at Ballantyne? Do you mind if hand and put it on the shoulder of the person with you. In the name of Jesus Christ of I see you going back to places this week &quot;This trash can isn't so big.&quot; I see you to be fun for you, saying, &quot;This roller corn dogs this week, saying, &quot;This doesn't Places everyone. God has an assignment for you. you. Places, police officers, detectives. stay-at-home moms. God has an assignment. for you. Places while you're waiting you're pastoring your church. Places Now unto him who is able to do immeasurably through Christ Jesus in the church now if you receive this word! I'll see you next hey thank you thank you for watching the Elevation you can know when we go live and post new content spoke to you today where you're watching from like to support the ministry financially you can reaching people around the world for Jesus