All right, we're checking out the only game where you can drive so fast that your tires literally evaporate, it's GTA. There's been instances of cars but map crater Alex wanted so now in order to get across the-- really? 666 miles now? In order to get across the map, we have to complete That's the actual moon, by the way, What is this? Unlock different cars Whoa. Oh, I think you have to hit the stop Okay, that's cool. All right, very first challenge, The devil's number in speed, I just noticed the plate Alex said that eventually the cars will get so fast that the tires will disappear, just evaporate off of the car so I'm really looking forward to that. Lean back, right there, perfect. Okay. What does that say? Stay on solid green gray. All right. I'm on the green, what does that do? It didn't actually do anything. I don't know a few seconds later. I didn't actually know and then there's a little guy I'm guessing I was supposed The script is started. Is it working or? I'm going to get on the green just I feel like I should be here. Oh, God. Okay, I guess script one started. There's a floor. Am I supposed to stay on the green again? There's no green, there's no green anywhere. There's no green. Please don't tell a lie. How am I supposed to do anything here? Maybe the board doesn't-- no. Oh, there is green. Where was the green at? What I actually learned through one of those green I actually do unlock a brand-new car. They're like up super high, the one that is unlocked will be lowered, the pedestal will be lowered We have the Avengers of the Flappy Bird, I feel like there's some copyright but I didn't make the car. All right, so is this one faster 310 it's slower. Does it have more aerodynamics? I still have all my tires. I am not yet satisfied, one way or the other, you are able to flap. Go. I don't think I'm going to make it. What was the point of this car? I was totally lied to with the flappy car, We got to unlock the next car. I'm assuming that was just Alex put that there just just like he put I don't even know where. It's underneath or something. How am I supposed to know where it is. All right. Oh, I may have overshot this. Oh, God. Okay, this one's looking real good. I can taste the rainbow All right, activate the script, Script is activated. Get on the green. With a beautiful Tokyo Drift, I almost killed myself right Now this drops, it says unlock. That is how you unlock the cars. I unlocked that car, now we're on a new area and there's green somewhere, but it's like it's underneath I don't know if I can look-there's I would have to learn, oh, Oh, my God. Oh, God it's right there. Drop down this version and I think it was close to the blue sphere, it was on this side? Yes, it was. Go on to the green, I got plenty of time I had to keep pumping the gas a little bit to actually stay on this thing. I got to unlock hold on. I got t make sure I get this. One millionth times the charm. Got the unlock. At the very least, I have the next car, so I have to keep finding the green. What is this? What is this? It's like a little flower. That's not solid green. What's solid green over here? This is perfect. It was a lie, it was green on the bottom The green is actually a tightrope. All right, it's okay, though, Sorry, that car's actually I feel bad that I just ran over its head, No, no, I mean, it seems pretty fast. I actually have to slow down a little bit, because I'm afraid over the side of the ramp. Okay. One, 200. That feels good, 300, 400, 500. This one stops at right about 500. I think I can actually make the platform, I think probably the last three cars so lean forward. If you ever want to get in a big car jump like this. If you tilt your nose down, This is not going to do it. That means that we need more unlocks. That's fine. At least I have this car, the 666 Car to get me First set of green. Easy. Next green. Also easy, At least I don't have to work I can just get here. Last set of green. I think it's a tightrope, but there's a-- There's actually a green-- Are you kidding me right now, Alex? [laughs] Okay. Oh, God. I hope I have enough time. Oh please. Yes. [laughs] How about that? Get trolled. All right, so now-Ooh, a little flip there. I like it. Perfect landing. I did unlock a new car. What is this? I know what this is. Hold on. I have an idea. I'll bet it's on this other side What you have to do, yes, That is pretty time sensitive, This looks fast. Here we go. Now I know in the beginning and a 500 mile-an-hour car. This one has rockets on it. Obviously, it has to be way faster. Better be better than my 666 God. Oh, God. Oh, Whoa, whoa, whoa. I'm not going to lie. Car's not very safe. Not really sure. I think that the tires aren't evaporating, but I think what's happening Oh, God, I can't. I'm almost slipping every two seconds. I can't go any faster because I can't-- I was going to say, I can't go any faster I'm not even really sure but I am not trying That and I want to know I do want to unlock all the rest of them. How many boards have I had to do so far? This is board number four. Okay, then we're here, then this falls. It's unlock three. That's the one we've gotten. Then you do the full flip and loop This one you have to be fast because you do not have time to mess around, so just go flip and then-- Oh, I'm not going to make it. Oh, God. I'm not going to make it. I'm not going to make it. No, no, no. Are you ready? Nice and sweet. Now that was pretty good. Right here, we're going to get Unlock four, and then so this is weird. The green is here, but it's -. Hold on. Oh, what? How am I supposed to-- that's really fast. It's on a boost, so you can't just-- Oh, I have an idea. This one's sweet. All right. Let me line this up. It feels like it handles Oh, nice interior. Not a lot of space for groceries, but to be fair if I got like a carton of egg they'd be scrambled All right. Line up and then go. More, more. Oh, God. [screams] What? I think we got up to 700 miles an hour. Oh, I still have tires. All right. What I'm going to do is I'm going to lean what I hit before 700 miles an hour. Oh, my God. What? Maybe I'm going too fast. There's no such thing. 600, 700. Oh, I landed. Oh. [laughs] Oh, I'm going to make it. I'm going to try anyway. [laughs] Oh nice, clean 300 miles an hour. We are not going to make it to the platform. Let me have this 800 miles an hour. I am going sideways. I am now doing a full 360. This is bad. I actually went right over the platform. We're slowly getting there. Oh, a pool. So close. Okay, I actually am getting closer This is the perfect car. That's why this came first. You have to use this one. I'm going to die. What I was trying to say is you have to use this one to land on the platform, It's really the only one into that whole of being able to go Hold on. This takes and then we're going to do a full swoop Perfect. Now, we're going to go down and what I'm going to do is, so it's trying to troll you, but I'm going to try and get Yes. Come on, baby. This is the time. Drop down. I actually have to stop We're going to stop now. Yes. Got it. Unlock. Windmills. I'm going to try and get this. Okay, you go over the half-pipe. The half-pipe disappears. The half-pipe is timed Okay. This one is the one. Almost. It's actually called Almost. I like the paint scheme. All right. Are you ready? The tires are actually spinning out. Oh, my God. 500, 600. Oh, my God, 700, 800, 869, not really. I'm going right This one cannot get to the platform. This one goes over the platform. I'm going to like the base of Mount Tilia. There's the moon. Can I get over the water? I think I'm going to get over the water. Like land over the trail. This is going to be a nice, soft landing I mean Back to the original 666 car. Okay, this disappears. Down. Over on the side, grapple it. I feel like I'm going to die. I don't actually need to get that unlocked. I'm going to get it anyways I guess it's just kind of pointless Okay, this one is over here. I almost forgot. Nice little tight rope over here. Perfect. Line it up and hit the brake for about here. Flip. Perfect. Oh, God. [laughs] How about that? I can't mess this up. That was such I need to make this work. Stop. Yes. No, give me the ground. Give me the ground. That was so good. Come on. I can wiggle it and stay on here. It's fine. It's fine. I can wiggle it. Yes. Okay, I actually haven't been here since that, I need to do this now. Go. I am the master of the year. Nothing can-- I hate my life. I hate my life so much right now. Let this happen, just let this happen. I've been hit by both of these windmills. Yes. Okay. Let me get the unlock. I don't care if it kills me. There. I got the unlock. I can land on this. What is this? Solid green. There's solid green everywhere. Those are kind of green What color of green? Go up here? No. You have to go off to the side. That's not good. It's okay though. I got a new car right here. [laughs] Real quick. I don't know if you saw it. The second I got This car has so much torque that if I just even slightly press the gas, the tires disappear. It's called YOLO. It is YOLO time. 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1,000. Yes. [laughs] Oh, my God, there's one more car left. I think I might be able to jump the map, but I can't jump the entire planet in it. I have to be able to jump the planet. Oh, I can get just to the edge Over a thousand miles an hour, I have been desperately trying What is this? There's green all over the place. Which one-- Maybe I can see it. Maybe I can see it. I can't pan up high enough, and down, and into the half pipe Make sure to miss all of the wind. There's these, whatever that is. That's blue. There's a green one here. It's got a blue stripe on it. That's not even a colored one. Then there's this. I'm just driving The board disappeared, where is it? Hold on. I think I just saw something, so real quick. I think I know what the deal It says, &quot;Stay on the solid green-gray,&quot; This one's solid green. I've done it. I've managed to get-- But it disappears. Hold on. You need to understand, too, simply to show you something I actually have to do this entire Oh, I almost got totally jacked. Drop down, got to do this right away. It's not the solid green-gray. Oh, my God, I almost died just then. It's the solid green-gray, and there's one gray spot right here. [chuckles] Watch, I saw it. This is the part that stayed on. Let me barely get on this. There. See, I told you. I knew it. This is going to unlock the final car. Yes. [chuckles] Yes. Oh, infinite boost. Now, the time has come but to leave this plane of existence. Are you ready? [shouting] Now, wait for it because you have to keep You've got to aim it just right. Of course, the tires evaporated, You got to aim it just right. You got to wait until the clouds disappear. You got to do this in order in order to watch Then you have to go Then you have to slowly start We're at 5,500 miles an hour. [chuckles] Then wait for it, wait for it, aim up, and-- [laughs] Then you lose the car. Well, I wanted to jump the map and I actually jumped the plane of reality. Anyway, foks, Until the next time,