Heavy rain. It has just washed away The downpour has scared off Aisha, aged ten, -Here's your money. I sold a few pairs of shoes today. It's really not easy in the rain! I work alone at the market, and in the evening, To help her family, She scouts the local markets, I dream of being rich When I have lots of money, In rural Guinea-Conakry, Despite the discomfort, no one complains. At least there's a bit of room On the other hand, I'm scared, the truck goes really fast. I've already been hurt Keep going. Stop, stop! Apart from its users, even though it's a very busy road. During the rainy season, We have to get off. No passenger wants to risk Come on! Our road is very bad. It will take Aisha which is only 15 kilometers away. I'm cold. The young girl's life of life in Guinea-Conakry, The country is sitting on a fortune, iron, gold, The population More than half of Guineans on less than EUR1 a day. You have to fight to eat. There's too much suffering. I don't want my sons I don't want them Winding roads by car. Just as in love, with two farms, two wives, and the 800-meter cliffs Sometimes the ladders To live in this country, you need a hell of a sense of balance and the Guineans have found theirs. Every August, rallies around founded by their father. All you have to do is stack them. You have to do it It's my duty to help him I can't just sit back and let him suffer. We have to suffer together. I have 15 children. Yes, 15 children, thanks to God, I have to move forward I have to get moving. I hire my sons and then they go back to school. -Did you secure the tarpaulin at the top? The bottom one too? They started helping me at the age of 15 and will always be driven According to Mamady, and the one lying ahead for his children They have 140 kilometers to cover on the Liberian border. In dry weather, Mamady takes three hours, but in the middle of the rainy season, It's a question of luck. The first few kilometers on the tarmac or perhaps not so easy. The road is too narrow, When I pass a lorry, I'm always afraid Look, look, look! That's not possible, that's dangerous! What's more, nobody trims even though there are companies The plants make the road even narrower The country has thousands every year. This accident has just happened, and it's clear Perhaps he was lucky. Miraculously, he wasn't injured. After about 50 kilometers, the tarmac disappears to make way When you get stuck, you can't get out. There's no breakdown service here. The driver is not mistaken. His sons and the passengers -How bad is it? I think it's blocked on this side! The left-hand tires It's always the same thing. It's been like that for 20 years. However, Mamady does it again every week, because this road to send his children to school. Go on, push! No attempt worked, and we had to dig our way Then my father and his truck It was the only way. For Mamady and his children, Africa is not all heat Guinea-Conakry has a protective shield: The millions of trees and above all, attract the rain. The country has no shortage of water, but not only because of them. Ancient spirits guide people like this vine bridge. It's so old However, one thing is for sure. Without the spirit of Nyamu, according to Zaoro. It was our ancestors who wove this bridge. It was the men who brought the vines It was Nyamu It's a spirit of performance of all the people who have lived here. Nyamu is a builder, but one who likes The cliffs, formidable barriers, have long challenged Mamadou is a farmer who grows potatoes and other vegetables of the high plateau. That is, when he can get there. I'm fed up with these wretched animals, I put this on to ward them off, The farmer's second problem and rice fields he owns It's a journey he makes once a week, However, he does it with courage. Mamadou leads a very busy life, Pass me my bag, please. Thank you. Excuse me, but I have to go to the field. I have two wives. I have her, Aissatou, with whom I live here I have another wife A perilous three-hour descent awaits him. Goodbye. Every time he takes this path, Mamadou wonders Taking the risk of climbing the cliff to get from one family and above all, If you go round by car, and even if you drive fast, Mamadou rarely makes the journey From here on, you need to be very careful, If you fall, You have to go really slowly. The passage It's a secret passage that is said by the spirit of Nyamu. As with the Liana Bridge, he then helped them There are eight ladders in all, For example: Pelitioru for a small bird, In the event of an accident, the names can be used to indicate On these ladders, there's lots of drama. The vines sometimes give way but fortunately, To avoid falling, always look A tragedy occurred here. A woman was climbing with her sisters. She slipped and fell from the ladder. She was taken to the hospital I'll never forget that day. Three perilous hours later, Mamadou is reunited -Have you eaten? -Have you not eaten? -You haven't eaten? Why haven't you eaten? These are my children. This is Madiou, this is Binta Bhoye, Goudouss is in bed. My second wife is outside, preparing food. To go from one wife and field to another, Mamadou risks his life. However, that's what he's chosen. On the other hand, a much greater danger which must be faced if they are to eat. We work hard, but it's not easy. There are black snakes here, You can't see them If you get bitten, you die immediately. Many farmers have died In my region, let alone a doctor who knows anything. Everyone hopes they will be lucky It has to be said in the country. In the more remote villages, they've even disappeared completely. Look at the state of it. We're in the patient examination room. There's no medicine. It's sad, it's sad. It's deplorable, but what can we do? Jean, the village teacher, This is the delivery room. However, they all refuse. It has to be said that the health center There's no running water. Quite an irony in a country This morning, a woman gave birth here, They had to go so that the woman could give birth. Everything is complicated here. It's total desolation. There's a cistern, but the pump has been broken for months. Nobody has the money to fix it. Despite the 1,300 rivers and streams running water is in short supply. Even the capital suffers. Water cuts are frequent, The fault lies with aging infrastructure, but above all, with corruption The best way to get water All that's left I bought this car 29 years ago. I've changed the engine three times and the speedometer It's too old! The starter is broken, Alasan sets off They have 155 kilometers to cover with two 160-kilogram tanks Everyone blames the state It's as if there were no road to Gaoual. Water damages the road, When you build a road, If you don't do that, However, that depends on the state, As the kilometers go by, the holes and ruts have made a real mess Push, push, push again! Three kilometers later... Pull again! Thank you. Five kilometers later... More, more, more! If we lift too much, it'll tip over. Help me push. Thanks a lot! Is it normal for passengers to pitch in? We have to. We're African. Did you get your jacket dirty? I'll wash it. That's what she's there for, isn't she? I don't have to wash my own clothes. On the road, little hands try to earn enough to eat Each time he goes by, Alasan gives them Hey, come here! It's for the three of you, okay? You're the eldest. You split it three ways. -Thank you, sir. They've repaired the road well, Today we've earned EUR1.50. I stopped school after CE1 Not all drivers stop and pay them. According to the UN, 68% of children in Guinea-Conakry In the towns, the poorest parents For these families, but also about learning a trade. I came here to work in the garage, I want to know everything The garage owner whom he pays as he sees fit. It's not easy to earn enough to eat. I get between EUR8 and EUR20 a day. If I earn a lot, I give them a lot. I also look after my mother, In Guinea-Conakry, school is free and compulsory However, there is a shortage of work Children are an additional source like Alasan, the taxi driver, who helped his family I too started working Now I want to stop when I'm 60 Especially with long journeys you can't last a lifetime. Life has many pitfalls It's a bumpy life, that seem insurmountable. This suffering is too much. Mamady, his sons, and the passengers to get the truck out of this huge hole. The operation is far from risk-free. In the mud, the brakes are useless. Let's see if this works. They supposedly financed Has the road been resurfaced? You see all this glue? Here's the work, Look in front of you, it's all lies. Digging out the mud with a shovel Mamady is hoping This is rice husk. You have to put it under the tires. Put it all on. The rice husk absorbs the liquid mud, so the tires It works, For Bala, his youngest son, They have to push it through the mud. Go on, forward! Despite this latest setback, We use planks to get through. You have to put them under the wheels. This sad spectacle to continue their studies My father works a lot and suffers. Take a look. In Africa, we suffer. It's hard. I don't like this life, My ambition is to be a mathematician. They have no strength left, which is normally more effective This lady passenger Hang on a second, I am taking my bag off. If she's decided to help us, Where men fail, women succeed. You're as brave as a man. We're praying to God because sometimes we can spend two However, it's also Mamady's fault. He's too old, Stop talking nonsense! Then hurry up and get us out of here! As the hours go by, the passengers, -You've got to force your way in. We've got to come up with an idea Now we've got to fill the hole I really want to get there. This is such a pain. I've tried everything. I have to wait for a lorry to come. When it arrives, it can pull me out. I have no other way of getting there. The day is far from over. In Guinea-Conakry, the days are long, even interminable It has to be said that finding a way is still the number one preoccupation Many work hard, whatever the risks. Makanbo would know a lot about that. His days are full of danger. This man grows a fruit 15 meters high. It takes a hell of a lot of courage made of worn fabric. Makanbo climbs Once cooked for an hour and pressed, In Africa, as in Asia, Everyone cooks with it and nothing goes to waste. The kernel also yields oil, but it's used to make hygiene Ujjain is a bit of a wholesaler He came by motorbike to buy 200 liters. That's how we make black soap. In the big bag, there are eight cans, Once it's made, We also use the oil to make candles. In the big bag, there are eight cans, I thank the farmer, I'll be able to buy food However, that was without accounting With 200 liters on board, He has 18 kilometers to cover The potholes will cause him a big problem. This road hasn't been repaved It hasn't been repaired, I am having trouble driving, Does it look His little motorbike is strong to climb this hill I'm going to leave a couple of cans here before I climb this mountain If he slips, the cans may crack, and he'll have to say goodbye Now I have to carry them. I've got 40 kilos in my hands. I need to muster all my strength. Every time I go up, It's really hard. If you don't work like that, My parents, my little brothers and sisters I'm the one who feeds them. I only earn 44 cents a can. It's hard. The odds are not in my favor. No matter how hard Ujjain sweats, Someone signals to him The can has a hole in it, It's because of the road. We have to take it off quickly Guys, come and give a hand! Lift it, we've got to get it out. It's completely punctured! The canister's ruined. Please find me a container. We're going to get another container, Except, of course, it comes at a price. Either bring me my can or buy a new one. He says I have to pay for the can. Bring me my can, and that's it. -Don't you have anything else to say? My profit is disappearing down the road. His troubles are just beginning again. The punctured can who ordered the oil from him. Ujjain tries to negotiate. We use the oil However, in these extremely poor regions, You absolutely have to give me a can How much does the can cost? An empty can costs EUR1.75, plus the cost of the oil, Drop the price a bit, please. No, I need my oil today Do you see the problem? It's difficult to find empty cans. You've got to help me. I'm in a difficult position too. If I say I can wait until tomorrow, Please, madam, put that down there! -No, I'm on a tight schedule. -I can't. -We'll sort it out later. Grab that soap. We can come to an arrangement. No, you don't have the money -Look, I have the money, I'll repay you. Where I come from, if you break something you have to pay for it. She'll pay me for my oil However, today, there's no market. Ujjain will have to wait, The can will cost him EUR1.75 It's a hard life, where the smallest financial loss of an entire family. Ujjain, like all drivers, The rain has thwarted Mamady to get their truck out of the huge rut. If we're lucky, we'll get through it, That's why I forbid my children I don't want them It's too hard. I want to become a nurse because there is too much sickness. I want to be a nurse to help my country. Everyone is on edge until a man arrives. Hey suffering, God help us, God help us. Hey Guinea. Guinea is blessed, it is endowed May the Lord help us! It seems someone up there because a few minutes after he passes by, When the rain stops, the driver has promised The rescue operation can begin. We're going to try and pull you out. Bangouna, what's going to happen next? I'll have to get in front of you to pull, Fortunately, We have to bring our shovel. Go and get the shovel! We're in your hands. This crew had foreseen trouble. Now, everyone holds their breath. It's okay. After seven hours of struggling, Mamady passes the bulldozer that was supposed to be used Abandoned, it symbolizes the irony Even if it makes his journey Mamady never insults the rain. He knows that in Africa, many countries would pay dearly The forest is nothing but happiness, there's rain, and rain is life, If the road wasn't bad, It's good for the crops. However, this life is unbearable. Alasan, the bush taxi driver, He doesn't know how his car has resisted or rather, if it has, Otherwise, it's the end of the road. My family and I live in a remote village and I'm the only one We have to get by! How much longer will he have it for? After 16 hours on the track, Mamady and his sons I don't feel well, I'm cold, but as I'm very tough, I'm fine, but I'm at the end of my tether. Like his father, at over 60, this life of drudgery His wife is afraid for him, Fifteen children There's no one in our village I want him to stop driving now. He can't take it anymore, but there are no other options. What do you do and not enough money? Making ends meet for a large part of the population. However, like Mamady's children, young people It's a promise for a better life for Guinea-Conakry.