Hi :) Today I would like to show you 6 flavors of Madeleine recipes. All flavors are unique and delicious, so PLEASE try this ? ** ) Before you make it, prepare the pecans, pistachios, and vanilla. Chop the pecans and pistachios finely. You can roast them in the oven to enhance the flavor. Cut the vanilla in half and scrape the vanilla bean with the back of a knife. Measure the ingredients first :) Now, let's start making Madeleines First up is the Vanilla Madeleine. Add 1 egg, 45g sugar, and half vanilla bean and mix evenly. Add 50g of melted unsalted butter and mix. It is important to keep the butter at about 40 degrees Celsius :) Sift cake flour 50g, baking powder 1g, salt 0.5g, vanilla extract 2.5g Add them together and mix well. Just mix everything, and it's done '**` Put it in a piping bag and let it rest until use (at least 30 minutes). Next is Yuzu Madeleine. Add 1 egg and 25g sugar, and mix. Please note that amount of sugar is less than vanilla madeleine! Add 50g of melted unsalted butter and mix. Sift cake flour 50g, baking powder 1g, salt 0.5g, honey citron 28g Mix well. For easy to mix, yuzu marmalade should be finely chopped. And transfer it to a piping bag Next is My Favorite, Maple Pecan Madeleine Add 1 egg and 35g sugar and mix Add 50g of melted unsalted butter and mix. Sifted cake flour 55g, baking powder 1g, salt 0.5g Add 10g of maple syrup and 13g of chopped pecans and mix. Transfer it to a piping bag and let it rest. My second favorite, chocolate madeleine :) Add 1 egg, 46g sugar, and 6g honey and mix. Add 55g of melted unsalted butter and mix once more. Sieve cake flour 45g, cocoa powder 18g, baking powder 1g Mix it all together. Lastly, add the heavy cream and mix evenly. Put it in a piping bag and let it rest :) Lastly, pistachio and coconut madeleines. The recipe is almost the same, so I'll make it at once. Mix 2 eggs, 92g sugar, and 12g honey. Add 110g of melted unsalted butter and mix again. Add 90g of sifted cake flour and 2g of baking powder and mix together. Divide the batter in half. Oopsie I added too much. 18g chopped pistachios Add 18g of coconut flour to the remaining half and mix well. Transfer it to a piping bag and let it rest. Preheat the oven to 170 degrees Celsius (340 degrees Fahrenheit). Prepare the madeleine pan by spreading butter. Madeleine batters after fully chilled :) Fill the batter about 90% of the pan. Bake in a preheated oven for 10-13 minutes. Bake the vanilla and yuzu madeleines first. Next is Coconut and Maple Pecan Madeleine. Because the Madeleine mold was warm, the batter immediately became soft. Next is pistachio and chocolate madeleines. Finish it off with chopped pistachios on top. Last one is chocolate madeleines. Squeeeeeze Separate the baked madeleines from the pan immediately. It's too hot, so I throw them lol (I cleaned table) Prepare ~150g of dark coating chocolate for the chocolate madeleines. Melt the chocolate completely in a hot water bath or microwave. Pour about 1 teaspoon of melted chocolate into the each madeleine pan, place the madeleine and press firmly to spread the chocolate. Let it harden in the refrigerator for at least 20 min. Let's prepare icing for vanilla, maple pecan, pistachio, and coconut madeleine. Mix 150g icing sugar and 30~35g water Apply the icing on top. Garnish the top of the pistachio madeleines with chopped pistachios. (But I was confused so put it on the maple pecan one hehe) Apply icing to the other madeleines as well. Finish the coconut madeleine with coconut powder. So coconutyy Next is the icing for the yuzu madeleine. 50g icing sugar, 5~7g water, 10g yuzu marmalade mix evenly Apply the icing evenly Let the icing is completely hardened at room temperature :D She's so pretty '**` I wrapped it up as a gift for my friends I put them in the lunch box evenly for each flavor. Stick stickers on them :) Too pretty All leftover Madeleines are MINE All madeleines are moist and flavorful. If you are a Madeleine fan, I recommend all recipes, so make sure to make them Thanks for watching this video! I'll see you in the next video :)