- Do you guys have any questions? Any thoughts on Jon Stewart? Come back to the, that's Are you kidding me? That's that's like one of the wild, I remember talking to friends about this. I was like, I wonder if Jon would ever, I wonder if Jon would ever. And I was like, yeah, and he was like, gone for so long. And I was like, well, And then when they said Of course. And in the election, it's like, I love, I love Marvel movies. Like, well, not the new ones, No, when they were still like really good. You know what I mean? And this that moment where you, you don't know that a hero's gonna That's what it sort of feels like. It's sort of like thaws that scene when they're all like fighting. What's his name again? Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, Thanos. You know, and you know Hammer, that's what it felt like. Like Jon coming back and Jon and I always spoke about this and like, the hardest thing the fact that it's daily. It really is. It's the And Jon and I would always talk and we'd be like, man, if only do like the, like a day of the show. And then like now, I and then I was like, you son You figured it out. Gun When I came to New York for he's like, come hang And so I went to hang out with him and we had so much fun just bantering. I wasn't supposed to be We had so much fun bantering that Jon was like, come on the show. He's like, let's do something on the show. And I was like, oh, I don't know. And he's like, no, let's do something. We'll, we'll make it fun. We had a good time. And then I left. I went back to South Africa, then I came back another time, And I was like, all right, did it again. And then I left. I went and then I came back and And then we did it again. And I was like, oh, this is so much fun. And then he's like, okay, I'm leaving. He's like, I'm leaving. And then he's like, maybe you should do it. Then I was like, what? I felt like Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, it was like the weirdest thing ever. I just came for a tour. I just wanted some of the Wonka bars. And then the next thing I'm I'm like, ah, I don't know So we talked about it a I call him my Jewish Yoda. That's what like Jon is. Yeah. Because he like guides me and he's like really smart and everything. And, and so we always how hard it is to do something like this, and as you get older, with your family, etc, And then, yeah. And then when I was like, yes. And the worst thing is I knew, but then you can't say So now you're walking around like, there's nothing worse That's cool, but you can't say and then, you know, so I was like, and they're like, what? I'm like, oh, you don't even So you were originally from So what would you suggest Laurel. Laurel. Pleasure So you're from Austin? Where I'm South Austin. South Austin. I like how, I like how you to a place where people Yeah. You guys just have So if I were in New York and I said to somebody in the They'd be like, oh, I'm from New Jersey. I'm from Long Island. I'm from Queens, I'm from Brooklyn, I'm from here. People are just like south. I'm sorry. Relative to - What, I'm from South. It is like, you know, we, we You don't have to have that People act like they're What part of town do you live Literally it's just like, and I've learned there's inflections to them. So people will be like south. They say it like that and then They'd be like, oh, you're in east. And then I'm like, I don't But I don't think I like it. Okay. So what would you - Trying What am I trying to do? Something that I couldn't do anywhere else other than Austin. What would something to see, something to experience, what would - Is Okay. What is, what is Baran Springs? - Natural Ooh, I like that. Yes. As I wonder what that would be. Right. It's like a toxic waste dump. I don't know where the water It really is. Plus this third arm is handy for washing my back. So it's a natural spring. And And do people still go into it? Yeah, you go in clothed or unclothed, you wear bathing suits. Okay, okay. Typically. So some people do not, Like I love this 'cause information and then you've and they're just doing hand signs. So I was like, clothed the unclothed. And he was like, and then And then she was like, she was like, okay. Okay. So it depends. Depends Does it depend on the day? Are there like more nude It just depends on me. Like me as Trevor. Like if I'm there then it Oh, I thought you were like Oh, that would've been exciting. I would've been there that shit off. LA says, so. Okay, I'm gonna Barton Is it open every day? Do you pay to go into it or is it just like a you, do you pay and then say you're from Austin cheaper? If I say I'm from Austin, Huh. Okay. I like how con You like, just say you're from I think something would give me away, sir. Something would give, they'd I'd be like, yes. Can you They'd be like, what part I'll be like, very south, very very south. Oh, that's fun. I like Alright, so, so you are Who's this gentleman next to you? This is my boyfriend Benjamin. This is your boyfriend Boyfriend Benjamin? You're How long have you two been About nine years. Woo. I like that you still You've got your bodies You both got your legs at the same angle. Smiling, having fun. Oh, Where, where are you from - Kingsville, Oh, you got a fan. One fan. Why did you wanna live in Austin, Texas. What was it about Austin, Texas you every, every thing. The way he said that was amazing. He's like, every thing they got everything out here. They got, they got water, they got lights, they got electricity, they got cars. Okay, well good for you. Good When's your, when's your It's nine years. When does it become 10? Wait, why are you, why That was fascinating. I You were both like, eh, like when do we want it to be 10 years? Like that was a weird, you were so con. I said, how long have both like nine years. And then I said, when is the 10th? And you're like, eh, are How does 10 work? What does - Don't You don't really know. What do you mean? You don't really know? You don't really know when 10 comes. What? - We're never quite sure - On the dates. Oh, you're never sure about Oh, I thought you were just like, we are not sure in general. Okay. I was like, this for therapy than comedy. Okay. Okay. You're not sure about, but is there a month that you celebrate? December. December. So 10 Oh, that's, so you just got to nine. Okay. Congrat, do you have anything is there a way you celebrate the, that isn't on a specific day? I mean that is a lot of fun 'cause like you can never forget it. That is cool. Like any day around and be like, happy anniversary. That's a pretty cool You know you've got 31 That's a good like hit And there's days that remind you as well. Like when you see Santa, Hey honey, next one's gonna be but stuff, next one's gonna be, next one's gonna be butt stuff. Butt stuff. Oh man. I love how you said that with the biggest grin on your face. You're like, the next butt stuff. Oh that's cool. Benjamin. I like how excited you are for that Benjamin, you really are. So Laurel's just gonna be You'll be like.