There's a lot of that show you how to but it usually involves You have to understand You need to understand from decimal to binary And one of the going to have when you sit is you may not have to be able to perform calculations. You also have to keep in for an exam and that process It's difficult to these things on the fly So I wanted to put showed the process that I use to be able to subnet without having to go through processes. Well, there's a little You do have to be able to use some tables prior to sitting And when you perform you have to be able to One and during an exam, I is something we need to This is really a combination of I wanted to create a series that got rid of the math and simple as possible, removing to make a mistake Now, if you're already some of these processes and that's fine. You can skip over the things But if you're like me and that one where it's very then this seven second is going to be for you. Here's a common you might be faced You're given a In this case, we have You're given an IP 192.168.1.0 with It says that we need with more than one support 40 devices per subnet. So we've been given the We need to subnet it out and those four networks have 40 devices per subnet that addressing scheme. If we wanted to write we could, of course, of the different We could convert those those for calculations later. We might want to to the CIDR block notation. And we'll be able to and how many hosts be for each individual Obviously, on an exam you to write out one of to be able to start calculating To do this a little bit faster, of 2's. We can, of course, create or memorize these powers of 2. And then we would look at So we have 24 bits that So we might want to borrow are left over. We might want to borrow and then use 6 host bits Now, we know that with those those subnet bits we to the second power, since And that would give So the total number We've got 6 host bits, so And calculating that And of course, we to subtract the broadcast address. And that leaves us with 62 as And there's the answer We now have 4 subnets and per subnet, all because that powers of 2. But of course, even this do a little bit of work. You need to convert You need to figure out how many You need to calculate this And you either have to have or you need to remember that you can use them very, Remember that when you're really looking for The first one is going to some people call this and it's the very first address We also want to find That is the last and it's the one that is on an IP version 4 network. We also need to know address on the network. This will be the one that will use on that network. And obviously, we what the last available be for that network so that we to use for all of our devices. Well, if we take our you can then see that we all of these in binary. We would have to determine the the binary from 00 to and then calculate all of addresses by comparing the settings for all of these Obviously, on an exam to go through this to create all of That's why I created the process so that we could very in just a matter of seconds we needed to do for the exam. If you've looked at or you've perform some you'll notice there are For example, a 255.255.255.0 and it's a range If we grab 1 extra and make it 255.255.255.128, it So we have a range and another range If we borrow another bit and you'll notice we cut it up you're separating these So now we have a process see is occurring and we are going to be of this very common we're trying to subnet. We're going to create some we'll be able to calculate be without having to go We're going to make two charts process. The first chart that will help us convert to a dotted decimal notation. This is especially given one of these will require you to convert, will allow you to do The way I like to to make four separate is associated with one of 4 IP address. I put a /1 through /8 /9 through /16 in the and /25 through /32 Then I want to calculate available in each one of these. And I put a 2 on the multiply that by 2 each time. 2 times 2 is 4. 4 times 2 is 8. 8 times 2 is 16. Until I get to the bottom and Then I create an and I usually start at the And again, I'm I double to 2, 2 2 is 8, until I get And now the final column, make that conversion between and the decimal notation. I'll start with 128 at the So I'm effectively adding as I 128 plus 64 is 192. 192 plus 32 is 224. 224 plus 16 is 240. Until you get to The second chart I shows me the address groupings If the subnet mask has a then I know that the subnet There will be a and a starting number of 128. If it's a 64 as the number then I know that my will be 0, 64, 128, and 192. And I write all of these out. It's obviously pretty easy to at 128 addresses, or But when you get into especially as it gets it becomes a lot more where the exact boundary is. And remember, we're trying to We don't have time to calculate So I write everything so that it's now sitting and I can perform any in seven seconds. Of course, all of these charts You may find a different of performing this might The key for me is on the page, that to perform any of during the exam itself. Now that we have our we're able to subnet. The things that able to derive from is that we're going the IP address and a CIDR block That first chart that us to do this very quickly. That chart is also going to show will be on this The second step of is to calculate the Some people call this And that second allows us to very quickly of that particular subnet. Thirdly, we need to know This will be the last address. And again, that what that ending boundary is. And lastly, we need to and the last usable IP That's very easily to the network address from the broadcast address. Lets try doing a if we can get the hang of it. The first subnetting that 165.245.12.88 with Generally, the subnet masks that the /8, the /16, and the /24 are to calculate. But let's go to show you how it would try some harder subnet The first thing we need to do and the subnet mask The IP address is already but this /24 needs If we look at our first chart, It's in this third column. That's important for later. And you'll see that So let's write these down. We've got our IP address and my subnet mask has a 255 all So we're going to use until we hit that third column. And since we are in everything after that point will I'll show you in a this changes if the mask Now that we have both we need to calculate If the mask is the address value at the top. And if the mask is in for the network address. That means that if we bring down and then bring down a our network address Now we need to calculate For the broadcast address, bring down the address number. Exactly the same calculating the subnet address. But if the mask is 0, instead of a 0. So that means our broadcast Now, the process of address and the last usable IP and subtracting a 1. So the first usable IP is So with 165.245.12, And the last IP has minus 1, which means And you can see So for this example, you can first IP and last IP addresses address and subnet mask. Now let's try a a little more falls into the fourth octet. It's the same IP but on this network this on a subnet /26. Let's perform exactly and see how quickly we The first step is to convert to a decimal. We know we have the IP but we've got this /26. So we need to use our first And you can see that the /26 That means that find here, which is what we're going to of our subnet mask. Everything prior to this And if there were open those octets will be 0. So for our subnet mask, since it's 255.255.255.192 is Another thing to notice as we're mask is, it was a /26 that but notice that the number That means we need to go where we have listed out and determine where that on that particular column. That column was That was the one that was And an 88 is the So we need to find in where an 88 would fall. And in this particular case, that begins with a 64. That will be very start determining where the and where the end So let's do that. Let's calculate the If the mask is 255, we into a column. If the mask is 0, we'll use a 0. We don't have any zeros in For any other number, And again, we had need to refer to our and determine where the 88 sits. And we know that that So our network address is Our next step is to find And we've already done We really don't even have because we know exactly this particular range We know that the So at the other end of this We know it's 127 because the starts at 128. So very easily we can then and we have our And just like our to find the first usable IP IP address we add 1 and we subtract 1 from That means that the first and the last usable IP And there's the answer for Let's run through We'll use exactly but notice the subnet mask is This particular IP address Same process that We need to convert So we're going to bring We're going to find and when we find that row we'll 240. But you'll notice that the of our chart. That means that the 240 is going of the subnet mask. Everything before everything after We also know from our 16 addresses in this subnet. So if we look at our row where we need to find that number Everything focuses on the column bit different. So that 12 that is in the into this row where Now, 12 is certainly so it's in that first section So we know now what is going to be for and for the broadcast address where it happens to sit. So we want to be any of the network addresses If the mask is 0, we use a 0. But for that column we know that it's actually So our network address is The broadcast address as the other examples as well. If there's a 255 we If there is a 0, we But again, we've got So we need to look to see what And because it is the 16's, to a 15. So we can look at immediately it's 165.245.15.255 From here, of course, to and the last usable adding 1 and makes our first IP is 165.245.15.254. You can start to may be able to make this accustomed to knowing and where to find the looking for. Let's try one last example. Let's try an address It's the same process We're going to convert So we need to find It's in the second column. You can see the /11 is a 224 So if we write this We put it in the second column the /11. Everything prior to Everything after Now that we have the address in decimal, let's find We know that we're these 32 addresses per subnet. We're going to look at and we're going to look That's where we found the /11. The address values 172. So we need to find in our row And it's in this range and before the next So it'll be 160 through 191. Well, now we already we need to calculate the network address. So we'll use those numbers. With the 160 we'll We'll use the 160. And of course, we bring down the 0 for For the subnet address, we in this range, which is a 191. So it would be 18.191. And of course, where there are and that's our And for the last to find the first usable IP address, we'll add 1 and subtract 1 from That makes our first usable IP 18.191.255.254. And there's the answer for the IP address of 18.172.200.77/11. Now that you that I use to understand you can of course Write down your own them to fit best for and try some IP address You may find that you're able in a very short period of time. And it's certainly a good way in the middle of an exam.