Today, we have a rare opportunity. To visit 3 restaurants in 24 hours. Each has a different cuisine. Using a different approach. From a different culture. But they all have three things in common. 3 Michelin stars. According to the guide, 3 stars mean that a restaurant has exceptional Today, we will put this to the test and see how three very different In order to do this, we need to Starting with inspectors. Michelin inspectors get the job based cooking, and cultural differences in each cuisine. They also need to demonstrate close Once on the job, they make and after multiple inspectors they combine their data and give it a final score. According to Michelin, inspectors The Quality of products. Mastery of flavor and cooking techniques. Harmony of flavors. The personality of the chef and finally, consistency When scoring, Michelin claims that restaurant inspectors table setting, or service quality. I'm a bit skeptical about this. How can they put those things out of their minds? There is a wealth of research that tells us how much our environment can Either way, I will be paying attention And now that we're all on We are here in the Central Otto e Mezzo 8 and a half. Named after the chef's favorite Italian movie. In 1963, it won the Oscar for The restaurant is on the 2nd floor of a This is general manager Antonello You couldn't find a more cheerful A local foodie and fan of this and sent me a gift. It's Krug, and a really special one at that. It's a 2004 Clos du Mesnil. This is a limited release that goes for well over a Thank you so much Ben! You are amazing. Antonello presents the menu. There is a 5 course degustation menu for 300 euro Speaking of truffles, the owner and chef Umberto He is from Bergamo and he officially became a "Worldwide Looking at the menu, I start getting excited. After a nice bread service with Japanese yellowtail, fried beets. The fish is soft and the earthy sweetness of The whole thing is elevated by the caviar. Speaking of elevating things, We Antonello opens it to discover a sad truth. It's corked. And it's no good. A wine that is corked means the wine has been It enters through the cork, reacts How do you know if your wine is corked? Simple. Pour some and smell it. If it's corked it will smell less like wine and more like wet cardboard or a beach bathroom. If you have a sip, you will likely Unfortunately, sometimes it happens And our Krug 161 is one of them. With no more 161, we settle By the way, 1996 is my favorite vintage. Our first course has been It's abalone liver, semi-dried tomato The lemons are from Amalfi or This is chef Bombana's Thank you to This dish doesn't disappoint. It's a beautiful medley of flavor and texture. East meets West in our next course. It's roasted blue lobster from Brittany with eastern spices and a salad with The flavors and textures are familiar I like this kind of crossover cooking. A traditional dish with a twist is next. Pasta with lobster, gamberoni In the old country, pasta and fish Here, they are reimagined With pasta that is made fresh each morning. Really really good. Part of it is because this where even the parsley greens I asked how the products arrive here so fresh. Antonello's answer was "We Truffle King Chef Bombana is tableside to shave fresh white Piedmonte You should smell this. It's incredible. Chef Bombana has been in Hong Kong 20 years. He opened this place in 2010 and 11 The following year, he got the third, making this the first and only Italian Today, Chef Bombana has become with a total of 8 restaurants here and Under the generous pile of with a parmigiano reggiano and butter emulsion. The pasta and sauce are excellent and the 96 Krug takes it up another notch. With two Krugs on the table, we add This time it's Krug 171. Chef Bombana is back with more white truffle. This time on roasted Norwegian scampi in If it looks like I'm getting special truffle But Antonello tells me that they Although I didn't order the wine pairing, they have a 2018 Barolo for me It's lamb from Aveyron in Southern served with aromatic herbs, I remember some outstanding lamb dishes before. Once at Maaemo which we covered on this channel. And at Maison Pic in Valence. This lamb is just easily on the same level. It is so soft and tender, and the quality Antonello puts on a show with a hand-made sorbet. This guy is giving amazing service. An ultra-professional, expert in his In a tailored, double-breasted Belissimo. Cheese is next followed by dessert. It's mille foglie and hazelnut We are treated to one more wine, this It's a great way to enjoy the The total for this meal is 2500 euro for two. And that's one down, two to go. After a good night's sleep, This time in the district of Causeway Bay. Ready for restaurant number 2. Forum. At the entrance we learn a few things right away. They have three Michelin stars, there seems to be a cognac promotion, Yeung Koon-yat. Also known as the Abalone King. Although he sadly passed away in He was born in 1932 in Mainland China Here, he started in hospitality, taught It was a simple restaurant After creating his signature abalone Soon, everyone from presidents to the When the Michelin guide showed they awarded Forum one star. In 2020, they gave them all three. And Forum has held them to this day. Sitting down, everything is neat and orderly, What stood out was the very made of synthetic material I have never seen this quality in It quickly becomes clear that Instead of amuse bouche, we get these. Cashews, XO sauce and fermented black beans. Forum is traditional Cantonese, which comes This cuisine is centuries old and is known for seafood, barbeque, The first menu I get is usually wine. Here, it's tea, as it's tradition Then we get the big menu. The a la carte. This is the biggest menu I've ever seen I do not know how they manage. I've never seen anything like this before. They also have tasting menus and I decide on It's seven courses plus dessert. For wine, there is no pairing but they have a I have a big day of dining ahead Our first course is pan fried Top ingredients, perfectly seared. Nice buttery texture. We are off to a great start. Dim sum or steamed dumplings are next. Here we have a traditional steamed prawn dumpling, Next, is double boiled chicken soup with coconut. Double boiled does not mean it's boiled twice. It's actually a slow, gentle way of cooking where It takes up to five hours, but they say this It might not look amazing, but Next is the signature dish that Braised Ah Yat abalone. Abalone was once reserved for kings and Here it is slow cooked in a It has a silky texture and So far, the food has been interesting I am fascinated by the service For one, servers lean on the Then they put down the food and leave immediately. I'm not sure if they are scared of me or it's Next is stir-fried lobster with xo sauce. This is more like it. A bit of presentation on Were they listening to my thoughts? Wonderful flavors and tender, tasty lobster. A roasted chicken wing stuffed It was crunchy, and the fatty chicken went Next on the menu is poached seasonal Bamboo fungus is a bit like mushroom and Here, I feel I have bitten This is really not to my taste. Traditional courses continue with Shark fin soup is something you as it is said to increase chi Fish maw is the air bladder of a fish This organ is a luxury as it is high in collagen. I am always interested in trying new things Coming back from the bathroom, I I'm stuck. For about a minute, I can't get back to my table If anybody noticed me, they didn't show it. It was like I had become invisible. The things you might see like someone pulling out your or folding your napkin while you're gone, did not happen here and do not As they say, different Our last course of the meal is Bird nest with almond cream. I'm happy not to see any twigs or branches. But slightly horrified to find out Made from the spit of swallows. And harvested by hand from The dried, hardened saliva is an expensive It's been popular in Asia for centuries for its Eating a bird's spit is not something I will The texture is a bit like jello. And that's gonna do it for lunch. Our total for today is 640 euro for two. And that's two down, one to go. Love what you're seeing? Support us by subscribing!! And if you like this longer format, leave us a comment so we make more For our third and final restaurant, we are back in the Central district It's called Ta Vie. The name has a double meaning. In French it means "Your LIfe" and in Japanese it means "Journey" We receive a warm welcome from As she brings us to our table we Hideaki Sato. Our table has lots of Starting with this card. What do you think it's for? I bet you didn't guess bread and butter. Both are home-made here with pride. I love attention to detail like this. We also get a little note from the Chef Pure, Simple and Seasonal On the menu, the only option is They also have a wine pairing for 200 euro. So I take both. Ta Vie is an ambassador of so we get started with a little champagne tasting. Here we have a pinot noir next to a chardonnay. Next, I get to try the bread and This sourdough bread is piping hot and delicious. Before we know it, the chef is at the table. He trained and worked in French cuisine for years. At age 32, he shifted gears, and started In 2015, he opened Ta Vie, putting both He got his first Michelin star in 6 months. And in 2023, they got the third. Ta Vie only has six employees, which might make it the smallest team in Not only is the team small, but the The enterior doesn't remind me with 3 Michelin stars. The Chef presents our first course. Kegani crab and avocado cocktail It's quite a large portion which is Our next course is grilled Hokki clam, Japanese winter turnip and I wasn't head over heels in love with this one. The flavors were okay but the Our first wine in the pairing is a 2020 pinot It goes with the next course of roasted a crispy risotto ring, fresh porcini and chestnuts The quail is from Bresse which but I think it was undercooked just a touch. The sake comes out next for a signature dish. House-made pasta with a seaweed sauce The uni is excellent. It's rich and creamy with a nice sweetness. The pasta wasn't bad, but I So far, everyone on the service is kind and has Probably because there are only few of them. Time for a new wine. This is a 2018 Louis Latour It's a heavy-hitting chardonnay Pan-seared Brittany blue lobster. The sauce puts ingredients from the Excellent texture and flavors. I give this course a thumbs up. I wish I could say the same Now that we have been here a while, The chef gives us a look at our In the meantime, our last wine is poured. It's a 2014 bordeau blend Our main course is served. It's roast Fassona veal with pumpkin gnocchi The meat is beautifully tender and these As we move to dessert, an Gin and tonic. It's paired with apple with pink guava sorbet. Lovely combination I wasn't expecting. Our last drink is Kavalan whisky and hot water, a common way to drink whisky in Japan. It goes with our final dessert of chestnut The leaves are made of baked custard. Not too sweet, with lots of Great way to finish. Our total is just over And there you have it. Three restaurants, in 24 hours. All with 3 Michelin stars but The question is. Which one No. 3 - Forum It was fascinating to eat at a high-end There were good and interesting flavors and I tried things I will It's completely different at other three Michelin-starred I'm glad I came, but this The second - TaVie The fusion of French and Japanese In this restaurant, everyone is Although I did feel they were short staffed and I think this led to some small At the end, I am not the one I believe this restaurant considering the complexity of the dishes, So my favorite of the three is Otto e Mezzo. Otto e Mezzo is a restaurant with European The food, atmosphere and especially the service I love these larger-than-life people. The Michelin Guide tries to organize despite differences in culture and cuisine. I think it is a very difficult task. What do you think? And that does it for this episode. Thank you for joining me! If you like this video, hit subscribe! See you next time!