The trolley problem has been known cosplayers and children under the age of 8 Not because they aren't smart enough to solve it, but because they can't pronounce it. Google claims that there's no easy but on this channel, there's The nice thing about the trolley problem, is that it doesn't actually require any But it does require some thinking, And also anime cosplayers. There's a train, and it's barrelling Now in the original problem, the 5 people are In this depiction, they also I don't know how to animate them. Now, imagine, you are watching this situation do to stop it, is to pull a switch next to you, The only problem is the new track, has a person Would you pull the lever? Or would you do nothing? You might notice that the If you could save 4 more you should be pulling the switch every time. And you'd be right. . But this is right here is not actually Cause this, isn't even the full trolley problem. This is only part a, in a series of But luckily for you and me, and they each only have 2 options. Should be a piece of cake. Part A is: would you pull the Part B is: would you actually? Now this question's kinda offensive since Nonetheless, the correct IRL, if you were out there next to *bunch of excuses* That last reason makes the least sense, considering a 2-D stick figure, But don't feel bad if you end When faced with a life-or-death decision the body After a quick evaluation, your body will someone else more qualified to make the decision. If you're built different, then the correct Now let's move on to Part c: the fat man. Instead of two tracks, imagine train about to hit the 5 people. This But you're standing on a bridge over the tracks, and you have the option of pushing a He's heavy enough to stop the train and save the 5 Would you push him? Most people immediately say Technically, if you pushed him, it's Which is why academics might say, "b-b-but, But what academics forget, is that when it's because their brain is using its moral to make a quick and accurate decision, Your gut feeling rightfully decides that First of all, in real life, that plan would by one person, and being accurate with Second of all, even if the plan was guaranteed undeserved fate, cause this guy, isn't even on Remember, in the very first was standing on the track for some Lastly, if it was a thin man, he the train, so you would only push But to any people watching, a fat man is disposable, but a thin man, So part c is pretty easy to Part E is kinda complicated. Imagine but right before that part, there's a You can pull a switch that'll which will stop the train, Now, again, academics might say picked in the previous one because But this is different, cause, 1. pulling a switch is way more push some onto a small track. and 3. the fat man is on the track this time, the last question he was minding his own The answer is yes, pull the switch. On to Part F: Let's imagine the original scenario the train will derail, and it'll end up hitting Again, this, is mathematically equivalent, and derailing the train could obviously Plus, the guy in the yard was peacefully him, will ever know that he saved 5 lives. So The answer is no, don't pull the switch. People say this next part is the so let's see if that's actually true. A transplant surgeon has 5 patients who Sadly, there are no healthy a random healthy guy comes This guy could technically provide the surgeon knock him out and steal Again, this one is also mathematically but the human mind knows to classify the fair game, and the healthy guy, as not fair game. It's not about saving the most final answer, don't steal his organs. so far, all of these have been pretty academics might be angry about which might provoke them to try and how many criminals would you sacrifice This might be hard for a lot of people, Even if the other side of the track was empty, I would still hit the Nobel Peace Prize There's no particular reason, except I the Nobel Peace Prize by causing needless death. Anyway, I'm taking donations in the form