Ugh, Ralph do I have to do the intro? I know the kids love it but you to read this stupid script every Uhhh fine, but you're Ladies and Gentlemen, boys and girls, welcome subscriber special: sit back and relax with refills when you purchase our limited edition the star of our show: Candi Buunny as they ramble Ultimate Custom Night gave voice to the voiceless, personality to the personality-less, and but I will revel in its lore implications However, those of us who can't beat get jumpscared by every character. If you're lore reveals are accessible to those of us most of the characters have voice lines, some with I'm Candi Buunny, and here are and character appearance in Ultimate Custom Night. I'm going to be evaluating lines on how much and the lore implications, if any, and on what some seemingly throwaway yes this includes Mr. Hippo. Yes this Yes this includes Bear of Vengeance. Lines. We've been talking about those Oh wait first, in case you don't know, Ultimate the first narrative arch of fnaf. You can almost any or all of the characters in and lore? Well that's what we're here to is how Scott delivered 98% of the lore in this Starting off weak with the Main Three: The got no lines except the jumpscare screech, you can give them just about any voice and it's having an impassioned debate about if Rockstar but the main cast? You want those to be perfect. sound like since Day 1, the pressure was on, and Foxy never stood a chance!&quot; I love Classic Foxy's &quot;Ya ha ha harr! Never underestimate for that matter&quot; Hm. Yes. Love &quot;Yarr! I came fer ye booty!... That be treasure, and my thoughts can be encapsulated by what I'm going to hold off on the comment and you'll leave before the cool parts with &quot;I can't run like I used to, but I can pull some questions for me. Ultimate Custom Night mechanics are about the same as Fnaf 1 Freddy, disassembling or anything that happened to all But this might be more of a quip to remind sort of like a death screen tip meant &quot;Arr! So much more spacious in here! I may might reveal Foxy the animatronic or the because of the small size of pirate's cove, saying it's cramped because here he shares Overall, I love the voice acting, I love the and there's minimal lore to be found here. Phone Guy He's got lines a-plenty, but they're not other games and they're long and we've got AND anime fnaf to cover before the end, so I'll old. Thank goodness because you listen to it Up next we have selectable characters from Fnaf 2. Toy Freddy I don't have a problem with his voice, as in with it. It was a unique direction with the has one. Toy Freddy is not a very important sounding cool or creepy, and the voice is funny &quot;That game was totally rigged!&quot; Toy Freddy game because I fundamentally have no skill? quit? Never. And you get killed ONE time &quot;That's what you get for leaving me hanging!&quot; plastic fingers and can't press the buttons.&quot; when they put a toy freddy voiceline in a &quot;Mr. Huggs got me again!&quot; you get jumpscared.&quot; Toy Toy Bonnie but spoiler alert, he sort of gets the Toy in Fnaf AR. That annoying personality Toy Chica Toy Chica's voice from Fnaf World was a great way I enjoy hearing the voice over and over. I never second part to it where her voice gets even more &quot;You won't get tired of dying, will you?&quot; Do get tired of dying" it's not so bad, but then &quot;Where's my beak? Lodged in your forehead because it's iconic but I do NOT like the how can I play this line without mentioning that takes off her beak when she comes hunting for you, the Toy Chica figurine also has its attention to it through a hint on his website. to the hint on the website, and others have said of '87, but personally, I've always thought &quot;You won't get tired of my voice will FNAF World Toy Chica. AGAIN with but it is SO much less annoying than the &quot;Let's go somewhere more private... so I can is pretty good. It's really eerie. It makes Toy Chica's design is more appealing this lure-you-in and then eat Mangle take apart and put back together! You won't and I don't like the male voice as but the concept is really &quot;Don't be afraid. Soon you'll look just like &quot;I wanted to wait until just &quot;It's so much more fun hanging out especially with the two puns, paint Mangle they reassure the victim it won't hurt, they to me. I always thought of Mangle as a tragic Toy Story 4. But it seems like Mange is and I love that for them. I love their &quot;He's here, and always watching, the one you line that isn't a quip, a play on the character's Someone is here and always watching, someone I'm not going to beat around the bush here. The Night player is William Afton, the purple guy, the nightmare coma, or dead and being tormented in the have killed," who we call The Vengeful Spirit. You Shouldn't Have Killed. This vengeful spirit orchestrating this nightmare torment on Afton In the Fazbear Frights story, The Man in Room a different perspective. A man who is clearly burns and should be dead, but instead is being boy in an alligator mask. This boy is named can't remember why he hates Afton, but he The community is very split on if or a retelling of it, so it remains place in the comatose mind of Afton or We'll hear much more about the player and Balloon Boy/JJ They don't say the hello or hi. Very sad. so I always think of JJ and DD as Withered Chica I'd make it through that vent, but chica's voice. Very unsettling. Sounds &quot;Come closer. Let's smile together.&quot; &quot;Let me show you how to break your face, and look &quot;I was the first. I have seen everything.&quot; What can I say? ICONIC, and divisive. Was first of the MCI killed? The first victim is also the first grave you have to hit in a I spoke in my last video that I think Chica but there is room for many interpretations here. &quot;I have seen him. The one you shouldn't have Spirit. This one doesn't have a lot to tell One thing that is worth noting is that Chica a "him," but the community does not universally This is going to be the fastest summary ever. If this is your first time hearing other videos on the subject so that you can If you believe Fazbear Frights is showing this is a boy with black hair named Andrew. mostly believe this is a victim from one Children's Incident of FNAF 1, named Cassidy. in the ending of FNaF 6 via this endscreen. But The name Cassidy was revealed as the missing grave which came out a year after Fnaf 6 and The fnaf graphic novels, which take place version of the MCI. Some of the children are a girl named Cassidy who is described as having maybe it's the same Cassidy, since Susie is But here in Ultimate Custom Night, the vengeful Cassidy is a boy right? Well, maybe. Many black hair being handed a cake in the Security giving the Happiest Day cake to the spirit inside But the image that can faintly appear the vengeful spirit is this, which looks But the voice that we'll hear the other voice lines we'll hear soon sound like But the listing for the voice lines when Scott was looking for the voice actor said it The answer to me seems to be that Scott wanted it you can explain away the use of he/him pronouns spirit of a child in an animatronic is but the gender of their animatronic character, and the Vengeful Spirit is in the And finally some people think the Vengeful but Mike, William Afton's oldest son. And you will want to watch Dual Process I call the Vengeful Spirit Cassidy, not Andrew the character analysis of the Vengeful Spirit a rose by any other name can still be as Vengeful. Withered Bonnie but even I could see this coming.&quot; Face puns time. &quot;Time to face the consequences of your failure.&quot; &quot;Might as well face the facts: &quot;You blinked.&quot; I don't know why &quot;What is this new prison? Is it me trapped, or is of the lore-reveal lines, not just because of a lot of lines throughout that talk about the But Withered Bonnie is the one of the only is happening with all the other characters. didn't truly move on after the fire? Or are all comes down to how you interpret this line animatronic saying it is trapped here I think our next character can Marionette to me.&quot; The Marionette. I love the puppet's voice the vibe of both the puppet animatronic and the &quot;The others are like animals, but I am very Guy's advice in the Fnaf 2 phone calls when he line also makes us ask, who is talking here? Puppet. It sounds like the spirit. The spirit as being more aware of the situation of the not even fully realize they are dead. the spirit inside the puppet saying this puppet's voicebox. Other characters we will soon by the Vengeful Spirit. But the next puppet &quot;I don't hate you, but you need to stay they just said they don't hate the player. And that they hate Afton and want him to suffer. as Withered Bonnie said, is trapped &quot;I recognize you, but I'm not afraid of you, the puppet says they're aware, that means that night guards they attack are innocent people and all. Because while the other spirits are very very confused and angry spirits. But the Puppet However I think that this line is the Puppet the puppet says they are aware, it means that in a more calculated way, but it doesn't mean that not have even known who her killer was because she But here in Ultimate Custom &quot;The others are under my protection.&quot; Man there's line presents me with yet another puzzle. puppet saying to Afton that they protect a little. Because this line is said to Afton, others WERE under her protection. Does Perhaps Charlie is trying to protect trapped in Ultimate Custom Night, and is Vengeful Spirit to enact revenge Or perhaps I'm reading this line too deep, is the protective spirit that we believed Golden Freddy has no lines, does. We'll talk about him in the On to FNAF 3 Springtrap to the Ultimate Custom Night fandom wiki: the player, however, he can make moaning sounds, garble that plays when William Afton dismantles I will say more on how odd it is he Phantom Mangle Phantom Freddy Phantom BB No lines for the Phantoms. There are some really have loved to have a voice, but Fnaf 4 Nightmare Freddy &quot;No light can save you now.&quot; Okay edgelord spot on to me. This is Freddy's voice &quot;What a gift to relish, a victim that can't Someone will give me like a mint and a mint that can't perish. This is one of my &quot;I am given flesh to be your tormentor.&quot; is so long. Ultimate Custom Night touches on every major mystery in the franchise. This unlike the Vengeful Spirit name debate where Nightmare Freddy comes from the nighttime to be a child in their room warding off horrific lore interpretation of FNaF 4 believes there the eye. This isn't just a child in their bedroom on top of it, but it's a child in a coma dreaming bunker being experimented on with fear gas, or a child in a bunker being experimented on with attacked by mannequins that are using illusion In every interpretation, Afton built but didn't actually make them look like technology is making the victim But this Ultimate Custom Night Nightmare Freddy image of Freddy used to exist only in the mind Vengeful Spirit to torment Afton. How do I &quot;I am remade, but not by you, by the one Nightmare Freddy for laying it &quot;I have always been hiding in your shadow.&quot; ... shadow? Is this supposed to be a pun about how the house or bunker? Because normally when you say their accomplishments outshine your own. Could that Freddy lives in the shadow of Fredbear and in Fredbear's Family Diner? I don't think so, just a pun, but this is one of those lines might mean. If you could please just solve it Nightmare Bonnie I love all the voiced Bonnie's in this Nightmare Fredbear &quot;This time there is more than an illusion to Nightmare Freddy that once again affirm weren't quite real before, but they're &quot;Let's see how many times you what's that little voice behind Vengeful Spirit? or is it the Crying &quot;We know who our friends are, and you are of the last things the Crying Child heard &quot;Let me put you back together then take like the very last thing the Crying Child the Crying Child here too? Are we hearing I think it is not and here's I believe that the spirit of the Crying time as the others. I believe the Crying but Afton's other victims were not spirits may be stuck in this new And more than that, the Crying Child of the nightmares are possessed. How could So what is this higher, more childlike I knew anything about audio so I could doesn't sound quite like the other spirits We heard Charlie speaking clearly and I believe that is Charlie's voice not animatronic is male and the voice is a young the whispers of the Vengeful Spirit themselves, The voice behind Nightmare Fredbears has a more that the voice behind the nightmare is not the This could be the Vengeful Spirit trying to like how Circus Baby uses Elizabeth's Or perhaps it's just a cool effect. Nightmare &quot;You will not be spared. You will not but I do not love the breaths between &quot;The shadow fears me.&quot; Another shadow that when Game Theory and the community Scott posted hints about the game on his website, easily misunderstood in the mind of a child." So which I always found sort of funny because none &quot;I am your wickedness, made of flesh.&quot; And that they're real this time around. nightmare animatronics have their real-world He looks like Nightmare Fredbear, who except he is black and slightly translucent, I believe nightmare's dark design and of Afton's wickedness to mean that wasn't long and weird enough. Agony in fnaf is often hailed as being the thought of it as pretty standard ghost-stuff to happened here that was so bad that the person it the place. Some spirits can't move on just because but some spirits in fnaf are trapped in their they are held back by an intensely negative The Nightmare Animatronics always represented terrifying monsters, but Nightmare himself Fredbear after the horror of the bite. The memory, This connection mostly comes from the design Items infected with agony are often depicted These next two lines confirm for us that Ultimate Custom Night every time he dies. just like we who are bad at fnaf do. &quot;I'm here to claim what is left of you.&quot; &quot;I will vomit you back to relive your horror.&quot; over until you make it to the end. Except there Nightmare Mangle Nightmarionne beginning.&quot; This is the first voice I really Also, what's with the stuttering in these It's a shame because he's sort of the face &quot;This is a nightmare that you won't wake from.&quot; &quot;This time, death cannot save you.&quot; As I mentioned being tormented in the afterlife, or comatose and to me is a point towards him being already dead. &quot;Let's taste death again... and again... and weird breaths. It's supposed to sound creepy &quot;I am the fearful reflection of what you have Nightmarionne is a fearful reflection of what That was definitely Henry. But in a sense, Afton who possessed the puppet. And Afton does at some points. Like Dr. Frankenstein he of life and deserves to take credit for it. Nightmarionne is a fearful reflection Nightmare BB help me count my teeth.&quot; Not a as in it's not fun to listen to, but it sounds for the first time and someone asked whose voice &quot;Heh heh heh! You're not so big, just a think it's the funniest line in the &quot;You knew I'd get you eventually.&quot; &quot;There just isn't room in here for whatever, That laugh? Really good and creepy &quot;Flash that light all you Jack O' Chica &quot;Did things get really hot in here has some hellish fury in her voice. like it. I don't have strong feelings &quot;Come and burn with me!&quot; &quot;I am a burning reminder of your misdeeds.&quot; This one goes kinda hard. I should say &quot;The fire within me burns eternal and now hell and judgment coded to me. As I mentioned verge of death in a hospital or is dead For those who believe Fazbear Frights this answer is easy. Coma. Done. I believe at the moment that they're different an open hand as I continue theorizing because can really change everything in this franchise. is a purgatory every spirit is being kept in. how UCN could work in a different way. Ah, you like how the graphic novels explain the FNaF Frights explains them with hallucinatory And Jack O' Chica's lines here Afton is dead and not comatose. These The Christian understanding of hell involves When Jack O' Chica says Afton is going to &quot;Greetings from the fire and from the one you I find great joy in how obsessed FNaF is with man and many ways to banish a spirit, but fire is tries to burn him. In Pizzeria Simulator, Henry will be a burning of Afton again. In Security Afton is characterized as being terrified of he starts seeking for a way to live forever. I and not all of us believe in a judgment or a fear of death as springing not from a fear of is to say, Afton is not afraid of the black void no afterlife believe is at the end of life, but and he will finally be unable to escape Scott's decision to have every attempt to extremely poetic to that end. Over and over again escape answering for his crimes, for Old Man Consequences voiced. There is just a text box that says: the demon to his demons. Rest your This is the best line in the whole game, Ultimate Custom Night. But nothing hits the Vengeful Spirit to end their endless We see a lot of sympathy for Afton's be moved with so much pity for the Crying Child give their life for them. But no sympathy seems are little known by any but the other spirits. the responsibility of destroying anyone their killer. In death, they have taken up To hear another voice calling to them quietly, rest. It's heart wrenching to me. This is a so hellbent on their purpose that they are putting Moments like these remind of of FNaF is and how compelling the characters are. And further to my belief that Ultimate is the background audio of the red when the audio is corrected, is this. That is Afton calling out in torment for the people who killed him to save into Pizzeria Simulator saying "That be." Is now begging to be saved from Alright let's start to lighten up got to build the mood back up before Sister Location Circus Baby The voice for her was great in Sister Location "Looks like something bad happened." "Want to see the scooping room?" Interesting the scooping process or Baby never knew he saw design that torturous scooper for his sentient Ballora "Why do you hide inside these walls?" "I could hear you...breathing." Lovely, smooth, but why does she say breathing "Admit it: you wanted to let me in." "Don't be shy." "These are strange circumstances that have brought line. I go back and forth on the Mrs. Afton for Mrs. Afton. These are strange circumstances Funtime Foxy YIPEEE ICONIC VOICE. But seriously. This a voice for who had zero personality before, and they made it extremely gimmicky, &quot;It seems you couldn't make it to my &quot;Showtimes are on the hour, not a &quot;It's time to take your final bow.&quot; &quot;I'm sorry, but there was never enough &quot;A performance was demanded of me, and now I have delivered. Encore!&quot; I just Ennard Did the funtimes not think to put any of their Pizzeria Simulator Trash and the Gang I genuinely have no thoughts on decent ASMR? Fnaf ASMR? Peepaw Afton does "Pssst, I have something to tell you." "Hey, hey, I want to tell you something." "Pssst, hey, over here. Get closer." "Excuse me, can you come a little closer?" "Hey, down here. Hello? I wanted to ask you Helpy Music Man "You and I will be making music together for a and I have NEVER heard one of these voicelines Custom Night Let's Plays that I watched, and not Man or something. I like the funky little beat for "A song was requested of me, and now I sing it!" "You hear that? It's the sweet sweet this line. Because it's said to William Afton. sometimes. "What a deceptive calling. I Obviously." Like bro SHUT UP and admit you "Hey! Keep it down, would ya?" you of the character mechanic and why you died. "When I'm here, you play by my rules!" This but it tracks a lot with the DJ in El Chip Funtime Chica "Today is all about me, me, me!" Okay this like this. There's Happy Frogs "move over time to shine." It's this secondary character getting some screen time. But Funtime Chica is makes sense with her mechanic of popping up as which I always feel weird about acknowledging. "I'm ready for my close-up!" "Smile!" "Say cheese!" These three lines are odd which was not immediately obvious Molten Freddy Three laughter tracks and I Scrap Baby "Time for you controlled shock." "Time for your the controlled shocks. The way she rolled up to really thought she had. Also I played these back but I like the second one better for "Let's see how many pieces I can cut you into." At but now I'm thinking about it and realize arm is very much a weapon she uses and which is neat. Glad to know it's not cosmetic. "You won't die, but you'll wish you could." Scrap Trap/ William Afton own purgatory? I don't know. But the more pained version of PJ Haywood's "I always come back." I mean. You GOTTA have that Scrap Trap says it and Spring Trap doesn't. I've got a theory. A game theory. Because chill. Scott wasn't getting other voice found one eventually. Afton got his voice, genuinely think something about the original and something about the damage that happened to he made to himself after it made him able Lefty Dude, I really like Lefty's voice. It is "Shh.. it will all be over soon."Just being jumpscared by Lefty and for a moment you hadn't gotten any new lines and then they But the line itself? Really good. As eerie as she's going to stop UCN from happening so comforting to Afton. Which is a really "Shh.. there is room for one more." is inside Lefty, if we needed it. "Shh... Come spend eternity, Inside, with me." will all be over soon," so while I still love "Shh... I've been looking for you, and now I like two different Lefty's speaking. Like it's the Lefty the animatronic that can capture the puppet "Shh... I'm so glad that I found Rockstar Freddy "Please deposit five coins." Ohhh yeah. is the embodiment of Fazbear's "Please deposit five coins." "You are attempting to trick effects with the voice here and it makes me laugh. "You are attempting to trrr-[distortion] tr-" "Freddy doesn't like this" "Please deposit five coins" Rockstar Bonnie face and flesh I must flay." I don't care what voices. That eerie crooner voice? Sort of reminds with these lines it's clear they were programmed is three lines, with the last one being the "So good to see you again my truest friend, but would sing on stage at a children's entertainment friend." That's very Freddy's. All the characters, of friendship built up. Fazbear wants people to friends with each other, and they want the kids to But then of course the last line is is they didn't *intentionally* program "What a treat to come here and meet It's a pity I don't like the tune to this one "Why so blue? You know I'll be true, and not exaggerating when I say this is the Custom Night to me. Thank goodness it's make slippers out of you? That's not have this quoted as I'll make slivers out What is so confusing about this line is that It just had to meet the syllable count. And sense "and now I'll make mincemeat out of you" even I'll make ribbons out of you would make phrase. If this is a guitar pun someone "I found my guitar. Now reach through your heart." This is the my opinion. Not as funny as face planting Rockstar Chica taking her voice more southern, since that had she sound like an old grumpy woman? So it's "That's right! And don't "That'll teach ya for trying to trick old and it's not just me. Why is this maybe Meemaw Chica? Is that what they "Though you could fool me with that "I may not like wet floors but the smell of was fine until the too enticing. For some "Whoops! Looks like you're the one that annoying and it's a little joke. Didn't make Rockstar Foxy voice!! He's so polite! And he has a bird! get more Foxy variants again I hope they band can have a variation with their little Bonnie has his guitar of course, Chica "What can I do for ya?" Aww thank you for "Yargh! How may I be of service onto your ship? I just know they "Who touched me bird?" This one's a little the one he says when you get jumpscared, but "Yarr! Me bird likes ya, so I'll do ye a little weird! His bird likes me!! This is they say their dog or cat normally isn't this "Yarr! Ya win some, ya lose some." I'm not even mad I was jumpscared. "Yarr! Ye play with fire and So true Rockstar Foxy. I wish he had more lines. Onto the mediocre melodies, a real highlight of Pigpatch he's the most lackluster of all the Mediocre A banjo playing pig with heterochromia? I don't His voice is nothing crazy, but unique, and on the porch with his banjo and his iced Lions if you've seen that movie. And then the "I consider it a dignified death... not really. "If you sit by the river long enough, you will see the body of your enemy float Okay I'll be honest I don't like immediately forget about it because of "Even monkeys fall from trees." "The nail that sticks out gets hammered down." heard it before because it's a Japanese proverb of the American proverb "The squeaky wheel "The talented hawk hides his claws." Nedd Bear While his voice is a little annoying, "Don't you hate getting killed This one sorta made me laugh if I'm being honest "Stranger Danger! [chuckle]" "I was just waiting for you to drop your guard!" "Whoops! That's gonna leave a mark!" "This is how it feels, and now you get to forever. I will never let you leave." Oh baby in Ultimate Custom Night. They have these goofy, voice gets so sinister and they say something voice is this child whispering the same line. The Mediocre Melodies to speak to Afton directly, and are so cool. Well written, well directed, and the job with the voice. I mean you hear Nedd bear you possibly make this guy sound menacing? Happy Frog Her voice is fine. It reminds of if someone "I bet you weren't expecting me, were ya? Turn your back for one second "You and I don't get to talk a reason this line didn't trend like some of her others. The line itself? Forgettable. The "Everyone underestimates me, but then they turn their back and I'm "Move over, Freddy Fazbear! Happy Frog is the but it's sort of weird. It doesn't match Toy Bonnie's gimmick in FNaF AR. She's band? Orville is. I don't know why she "We've only just begun. I'll never let you leave. actress managed to really make it sound like her voice. I love the delivery on this one, Orville Elephant voice. It pairs really well with Mr. Hippo, who friends. You can picture the two of them in the gripe, it's that the rest of the Mediocres and then we get this posh elephant, and guess there's a reason he's in a different "What did you think of my act?" "I don't get out much, so you'll "I hope you enjoyed the grand finale." "Now is my time to shine!" He just seems "He tried to release you. He tried to happen. I will hold you here. I will keep you It actually starts off just a little he tried to release us" doesn't have that same Orville feel to it. But DANG they recover it Mr. Hippo Alright, now the man of the hour, the real star of Custom Night: I am going to let all four of his... "My friend, you have met a terrible, terrible about it. After all if...if it weren't for me, it I guess what I'm tryin' to say is life...life life goes on. Not...not for you, you're...you're It reminds me of one summer day in the park, good friend Orville. And I said to him, I said "What's the significance of the story?" and...I said significance, you know? Sometimes uh...y'know read into every little thing and find meaning in crazy - had a friend do it once, wasn't pretty, we you'll likely end up believing something you shouldn't think o-o-or assuming something you "a story is...is just a story. So just be quiet for Of course, it was only then I realized I made difficulty eating it! Elephants have those clumsy problem. They don't have hands at all, do they? someone asking me to eat a sandwich with my feet! nearby. I-I said to him "Orville, let me go elephants enjoy rye bread but, I assure you which was good because rye bread was always fresh and threw it out Wednesday, or rather they...sold ducks and then, probably at the end of the day I do remember a man who would bring his then go feed the ducks. He would buy all of you're not supposed to feed the ducks sour-dough then they all die. It uh...least...at least that's ducks die myself but I did notice a substantial of a few years. I just never thought to stop the feeding them sour-dough bread! And if you want my this as well - If you wanna feed ducks or birds seed. I mean, when you think about it, breads grow on trees or spring up from the bushes. I What was I saying? Oh, oh yes yes. So I bought "It seems that you have met your end. What a though. After all if it weren't me, it would've just glad to be out of those air ducts. Y'know, there. And...not...easy to get down either. Not as to be able to do all sorts of things - y-you're in your step. It reminds me of a conversation I We were having a nice picnic one day. I believe fall? Yes, yes, yes, it was the fall because the I-I says "Orville, I have a story to tell you", and said "What is it about?". I said to him, "Not Sometimes a person just wants to talk, why does just looked at me and he said "Well, y-y-you said I did in fact. I told him I had a story. I it's best to not announce that you're telling pressures and expectations I...I suppose. After there's no more expectations than Words by themselves aren't expected to carry if you announce you're telling a story well y'know? No one wants to sit and listen to someone end in sight. So, you know it's-it's good to be about to tell a story, that you have something them a story is tantamount to asking them to You're basically saying "Hey, hey, hey buddy stop a solution to everything", and well, I didn't I-I probably just misspoke when I said that I better to tell Orville that I wanted to tell him but y'know, even then it might have put too way it was quite a nice day. I remember, "Well, it seems that your journey, has ended. Very end this way of course. If it weren't by me terrible thing just, you could not I get scared thinking about it. Glad it's not me. good friend Orville. We were...we were sitting on the left, he was on the..oh wait, was I on we were sitting on there watching the "friend, those birds are frozen!", a-and he kinda him that it was winter y'know and, often birds they you know sorta fall to the ground, until the around again. So I said to Orville "you might as because they can't very well enjoy them in the I meant and, asking what condition the crumbs assuming that I meant the birds couldn't enjoy, were in, when in-fact, I had meant the birds birds were in, considering that the birds were threw his last handful onto the ground. I said to the birds when I just told ya' they're frozen?". frozen" - again, misunderstanding my words. were frozen, when I said I told ya they're You know, in hindsight what I-what I should've sense - "Why did you throw the breadcrumbs to the upon my correction stating that he didn't that perhaps you know, when the birds thawed said to Orville, I said - and this is what I said "It seems that you have met a..a horrible these...these things happen and...and life...life goes but uh, it reminds me of a time, I was-I was We were uh...where were we? I think we were by river and watching the fish leap over the falls, I feel like a fish leaping over and over though I don't know where, only to find myself me surprised, you know? "Have you been in the "No, of course not Orville". I said, "No seem like a relentless endeavor to overcome, meaningless fate regardless of your efforts - And uh, Orville he...he, he stood and proceeded I...I..I..I asked him, I said "Friend, what...what really. "I feel like you've gotten too much sun". me a glass of just...ice cold lemonade. Oooh, you lemonade ha- ooh, it's so- you should try it some- So, you may be asking yourself, "How and drinking lemonade to being wedged in with an entire assortment of fruity-colored no good answer to that but...perhaps I met is my afterlife or my dream. Whatever it maybe it doesn't mean anything at all. I'm gonna make a bold, bold claim here. I thing Scott put into all of the games so far. of this animatronic talking, trying to make some end it off with "Maybe it doesn't mean anything Oh my gosh. It's just too good. Is Is he saying no lore here or is he Here is what I think. And do try to I'm not entirely sold on my own theory. I when he talks And in any given monologue His first chunk is just the "You have it would've been one of the other guys." The second chunk is Scott making a meta commentary yourself crazy trying to figure out every little told Orville I had a story but I should've didn't have a story." These are the parts of the audience, and having fun with the community. voiceline is full of lore importance, the beginning. I think most people who analyze Especially, those who don't believe Dream try to read into every little thing and you'll just drive yourself crazy - had a friend for years and not only that but, you'll likely and thinking something you shouldn't think you know?" Is talking specifically about how I think it's also likely it could be about or it could just be talking Now the third chunk is his anecdotes about food, we say "Maybe it doesn't mean anything says some things that really make us go hmm? man who would bring his son to the bakery and go but I did notice a substantial decrease in the I never thought to stop the man and tell him that think of Henry's strange inaction where he sees children start to go missing, but Or how about "We were having a or perhaps was it the fall? Yes it was 2 where your paycheck is dated November And how about "Orville the birds are frozen and for them? And Orville says I didn't know still eat them." Doesn't that sound like Mike trying to find the spirits and save his younger even though he has no idea how to set So is that lore? I think so. I do allegory for the MCI killings and Mike hopeless pursuit of saving the souls I think Scott was poking a little fun when because you'll drive yourself crazy, because too obsessed with how many toes each animatronic Here and I certainly don't think it's him FnaF's success as a franchise has always been to figure out the story. And I think there will clues that mean a lot. Just, at the end of the take a breath. Theorizing isn't everything... Non - Selectables Ultimate Custom Night has a you can't select. They are spawned in secretly. RWQFSFA- Plushtrap and Nightmare Chica Bonnet Minireenas Lolbit Lolbit has a please stand by that beeps, which Dee Dee "Uh oh! How unfortunate! I'm gonna do a sneaky thing, "Uh oh! How unfortunate! I know how much you like to fight, This, in my personal opinion, is also runs. But what a musical little gremlin. Xor "(reversed)Uh oh! How unfortunate! I'm gonna do a sneaky thing, This is DD's first four lines Fredbear And finally, Fredbear. Fredbear is an interesting by the Vengeful Spirit. And Fredbear has very which is a game mechanic where you can get rid of instead of getting rid of him His voice is extremely distorted, but What's odd about these lines is that, of all the mainline games, seem to point towards jumpscared by the Vengeful Spirit. But they to say. I'm not saying the lines aren't but they're as generic as the lines of any Spirit has more to say through the mediocre You know who else had shockingly little to Scrap Trap. I don't think Fredbear or Spring And Afton and the Vengeful Spirit overcome repairs himself using his engineering while the Vengeful Spirit usurps the voicebox If a spirit inside of the Fredbear animatronic Me in FNaF 1 and The Week Before, this is projecting it into peoples' minds or using So there's a little micro-theory but makes a lot of sense to me. The have a voicebox and maybe played Easter Egg Characters Bon Bon, Bidybab, Funtime Freddy, Security Puppet appear in the Sister Location office specifically bidybab, funtime Freddy, and the security puppet. Tangle, White Rabbit, Bouncepot and the bouncepot are FNAF World characters Removed Characters Candy Cadet Removed for Withered Chica. I love Candy was a crime to remove him. But at least he "He promised them to never leave them.." "Now I will tell you a story.." "But he could not choose.." "He pieced the remains together..." Adventure Endo 01 lines. It is a shame there's not more FNaF World This concludes the character section of this School years and The Bear of Vengeance, I'd animatronics seem to know what is going on. It and Old Man Consequences who seem to be aware of The One You Should Not Have Killed, and eternity. And the Mediocre Melodies are the ones I don't have some special lore theory here. I just pointing out that the characters that get lore casts of characters are more aware than others. being the withereds and the nightmares, to goofiest characters, the mediocre melodies, Alrighty. On to what everyone has Yiippee! Once again I am going to let the whole Cinematics Toy Chica "Dear diary, Yesterday was so amazing and I met such a to last. For my heart belongs to another! so cute! I've been thinking about him all He's the only one for me, I just know Look at that top hat! That amazing top hat! He'll I told him that I needed help with I'll have him! And once I have There is only one thing that [Dear diary... I know just how to get him] That amazing silky sheen! He'll be mine I told him that someone ran over his dog I'll entice him with warm cookies, lure and then I'll have him! And once There is only one thing that Look at those ears! Those amazing ears! He'll I told him that my house was I'll tell him that I threw myself on impressed that he'll fall for me immediately. There is only one thing that Look at those eyes. Those amazing eyes. He'll I told him that I'd taken several live I'll tell him that I let them fall for me immediately. And once There is only one thing that Look at those strings! Those long, the end of the day, I just know it! should be enough. And, if he doesn't show doesn't open the door, I'll just find a I could set the house on fire and wait for him There is only one thing that Look at that...snout? Uh, emm, looks the end of the day, I just know it! throw a bag over his head, hit him with a shovel he wakes up, I'll tell him that someone was Balloon Boy maybe - and then I'll tell him that There is only one thing that Dear diary, Things didn't work out as I'd hoped and once again tomorrow is another day, and I just know that Sexy toy chica is William Afton. It's hard to Scott just wanted to make as many people as is William Afton and I am not mad. In fact I will I think we just watched that WHOLE cutscene #1. They tell us loosely how Afton killed second victim, where Toy Chica tricks his dog in front of her house, which is her her dead dog is in the safe room I think it follows that the other victims there are six deaths: the five MCI plus it's definitely not 1-1. Afton told Susie character that Toy Chica is talking to here no correlation between what character Toy He asks one kid to come help Bonnie with his he threatens one saying that he had someone he breaks in through the window, and he kidnaps one the most likely one to represent Charlie because #2. There is a secret 7th victim. We see the wolf, toy bonnie, mangle, the puppet, and bag on the day she takes Freddy, so there is Is this one of Afton's children? We know to parent him and Mike, and we know he's of Elizabeth and the scooping of Or is it perhaps a 7th victim who was killed watched my last video, I think Scott is going to in the timeline to make sense of Henry's "a wound For now I think the safe answer but I'm holding out for a 7th victim I do have one other thing to say about Toy Chica's High School years and that's that the There are lockers numbered 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, presumably 15, 16, Locker 10 has what might be a dent Locker 11 has some writing I can't make out Locker 17 has a flower that looks to me fnaf 4 and a Let's Eat 20 has a note or photo and a heart scratched in 22 has another note and a This is Candi in post. I was looking while I was writing this script 18 someone has written &quot;Eggs I thiiiink this is probably not significant have to do with the FNaF 4 flowers, but the I had wondered if this was confirming that place. So it would go 1, 2, 3 MCI kids, the newspapers to make 5, then 5 more killings keeps counting up for the victims of Circus that's reach and I need to take Mr. Hippo's Alright Bear of Vengeance Episode 1 Another sun begins to set on my remains unquenched. I can hear the Fox of terror will soon be at an end. The air Fox's hands will finally be scrubbed off with the and devious, and has continued to somehow escape time and time again, but to no avail. But the It ends tonight; I will have my revenge. I cannot toll, and the consequence follows me still. the sun sets, but my anger is a new sun, Tonight my attack will be unexpected, as it is my The Fox: HA! Today is that foolish how predictable. I have been anticipating learned his lesson. And let's not forget what feeding his new friend. down now? I really need to go to the bathroom! his clan. He will remember this night; the night suffer, maybe there is a better way. Yes, I know crossed paths with me! Come to me, and see the soon forget... Episode 2 begins to set on my fury, and my thirst for Fox laughing from his temple, but his reign of for revenge, and the blood on the Fox's hands will justice. But the Fox is cunning, and devious, and tried to lay siege to his temple, time and time not go as planned. I was captured, but set free on the next seven days. I suppose it so burnt that it turns black, like his but my anger is a new sun, bleeding red over the He will be distracted, and won't see me coming. reception is terrible here! He will attack; how the trap is set. He should have learned his That bear had better not screw up my bacon! just use them to build little forts! his clan. He will remember this night; the night suffer, maybe there is a better way. Yes, I know crossed paths with me! I will crush you beneath people. Yes, humiliation, that is the key. Now Episode 3 Another sun begins to set for vengeance remains unquenched. I can but his reign of terror will soon be at an end. Fox's hands will finally be scrubbed off with the and devious, and has continued to somehow escape time and time again, but to no avail. Last night's and lost. The Fox is cunning. Now when I go out in public. It must be this I just wish it didn't attract so many flies. bleeding red over the Temple of the Fox. Tonight before my attack! He will never expect that! flute. He will attack; how predictable. the trap is set. He should have learned fashionable with his new hat! He should thank me! The Fox: This night marks the end of the Bear the night he was shown no mercy! Then again, way. Yes, I know just the thing. That Bear Clearly humiliation wasn't enough to deter your and I think I have just the thing. Let's put Episode 4 Another sun begins to set on my fury, and my hear the Fox laughing from his temple, but The air is ripe for revenge, and the blood on the scouring pad of justice. But the Fox is cunning, my grasp. I have tried to lay siege to his temple, to overthrown the Fox last night failed. That one which I can hardly bear. But it's just for the sun sets, but my anger is a new sun, snuck a dead fish into the pocket of his robe, he The Fox: HA! What a delicious fish! He will this night; the trap is set. He should have so clean! I must ask him what his secret is! The Fox: This night marks the end of the Bear the night he was shown no mercy! Then again, way. Yes, I know just the thing. That Bear me! The Bear won't give up, he's the gift that I think you just need a greater purpose in Episode 5 and my thirst for vengeance remains unquenched. but his reign of terror will soon be at an end. Fox's hands will finally be scrubbed off with the and devious, and has continued to somehow to his temple, time and time again, but and the cost of that failure is high. The Fox decorate my tree once a year with strange shapes about delivering gifts to children. I don't know. bleeding red over the Temple of the Fox. down his chimney; he will never expect it! attack; how predictable. I have been anticipating learned his lesson. I must remind the fox cubs to Mangle: I have a feeling you are The Fox: This night marks the end of the Bear and he was shown no mercy! Then again, if he wishes I know just the thing. That Bear will regret the weary of this. I'm going on a vacation. Feed Finale The sun sets, and the land returns to for the Fox has fled these lands. For although measured as a victory. But this is not the end. I land he has fled to. It is my destiny; and it Guys I'm going to be so real. I did not because I don't have anything would be sort of a bummer since I And also trying to make myself look end all be all of having a FNaF theory some popular interpretation of these So Theory #1 that feels the most obvious the Fox is Mike, and Mangle There's a lot of little The Crying Child is tied to bears by Plush by the Fredbear animatronic, and by this poster Mike is Foxy bro, and is always depicted The bear attacks on his birthday, and the Crying Child's birthday is the The Fox keeps defeating the bear. The Bear says he will attack during the Elizabeth has the mangle toy in her room. The battle between the Bear and Fox shenanigans. The Bear has to do the Fox's and the Fox is mostly interested in poking than doing any actual damage, which lines up with If Mike is Foxy and the Crying Child a glimpse into what their sibling rivalry The next interpretation is that this represents with Mangle once again being The Vengeful Spirit has connections they possess the Golden Freddy suit. Afton but he didn't have one to Sexy Toy Chica In this interpretation, the rivalry between endless pursuit of revenge on Afton, trying The third interpretation is that this represents claim on Freddy is that he was the one who wore this represents Henry trying to find William All of these interpretations are good, I think, and I find the Mike, Crying Child, I have one issue with every one of these anything new. We knew Mike bullied and humiliated Spirit had it out for Afton, we definitely knew of course we knew Henry has sought out William "Connection terminate. I'm sorry to cut you off There are two main elements heads against the wall trying to find meaning in: The first is the punishment Freddy attacks, gets captured, and must make the fox breakfast for 7 days fruit hat for 30 days. and must do the Fox's laundry for a week his tree once a year for Christmas The Fox flees the land, but Freddy vows It should be noted that similar there is an implication that we are jumping in in to take care of a Frog companion after his The second thing that changes cutscene thinking his attack will work. During the fox's fav show He snuck a smelly fish into his robe I have a tinhat theory here, but Like I said I don't feel like I've got very Freddy's reasons for attacking seem chronological order of the fnaf The first attack is on the bear's bday could birthday tragedy, so that's fnaf 4. the fox's fav show, with the Fox often Immortal and the Restless of Sister Location because the third cutscene he wants but putting someone to sleep with a tune is Next up, Freddy has snuck a smelly 1 and FNaF 2 the player is fired for so this one would map onto FNaF 1 Foxy's chimney, which would be fnaf So this could make the potential chronological FNaF 2, FNaF 1, and FNaF 3. for the games. I think the only is Sister Location because people put it Did I solve the bear of vengeance? Not at all yet because we have yet to talk The Real Bear of Vengeance That's right. The audio in the bear what is being said in the subtitles. Now rely entirely on the translation of The As they explain in their video, so you might hear the one clip over the first By the accounts of The Comfy Corner and those in lot of grammatical sense. Many words are missing strange. I have attempted to put the scenes Fox Scene: something I call personally. I thought about what it, it won't become it. If I intend to be I must have a name for my hideout. Do I I have no room for character development, small part of what I can add. That's why very terrifying to me. What do I know? - is a good place to meditate. But, I can't use not my fault! Bears wake up earlier, it's the law. I think that is when he is hibernating. He doesn't straight upon the ice, and stare at the frozen think sleeping on a frozen pond is perfect for It was so painful, and my body hurts. I hate this! I want a blanket! not caring about what anyone else - can roll myself up like a burrito, on top of the just take naps, but I would still mediate. He had woke up with a bad odor. I am eating cold breakfast here, once again. but they cut up the insides of my I believe that it's a necessary method warriors. Even if you cut up your mouth more by eating it once again. In order to foods afterwards. I curse my life and my weak I was sitting under the same tree. It was that annoying bird, I will never forget it. I It was probably a laughing kookaburra. Geez, a number of pebbles at it, they came back I quickly climbed the tree, the laughing Kingfisher, clad in down and feathers. and perched next to me, but I didn't So, I shot the bird? Or, did I perhaps try to dressed as a laughing Kingfisher... What feel like it had something to do with an but I certainly remember enjoying it was done. Ha! The Laughing Kingfisher wasn't an bear until I die. Well then, what can goals? Is there a goal? Do I have one? That's I realized that floating in a pond is a good way at school. They angrily swam down into the water and tossed snake-like things. Did they gathered - and hit it with a basketball, do and they simultaneously both tossed me smelt terrible. The last time I sank, I got vision. I met with my ancestors. They taught and that kids these days don't respect their eating potato chips. They have no respect about unfairness. All my life, I had searched for In the end, I have obtained one thing. When me wake up. I returned to the water's surface and never make the ancestors angry. Right now, I have of floating in space. Right after that, I stood up as if there was an invisible bed underneath. That - I thought this was a vision, of after saw the place my ancestors had mentioned &quot;No.&quot; They told me, I was just holding I fell under the window and into an I actually, for the first time in from the horse's pen and painstakingly formerly had a plan to have several that window, but they fell into the valley So naturally, I dragged him out of the trough, for a while. It was so much fun! I posted the friends first. I can't just show the photo's Mangle Scene: Is there anyone there? I really There. It has been read, but what does it mean? Well, like Foxy says in the very first An absolutely ENORMOUS thank you if you and thank you very much for 5,000 these and leaving the absolute BEST comments just being super funny. I read every I'm 30 pages deep in script writing they I'm trying to recognize the regulars anything you want to say in particular you can comment hi or THE MIMIIIC or candy really anything. And you'll know if I've Also, I am very early in the learning curve so if you've got constructive criticism guys told me I don't need to sensor the which is really nice to know because man Okay, long outro, but 5000 subscribers!! Eheheh! I have been Candi Buunny, and I have