- So I'm just gonna be right up front and honest from the beginning. I got a lot of good things This is probably the most high-tech and impressive luxury Actually it is, 'cause that would be close. The Lucid Air would be close, things like the Bentley Flying Spur. I'd take this over all of them. And that says a lot. So let's just get right into it. I'm gonna hopefully that is so impressive about this car. I might miss some stuff, but let's just start with the basics. So BMW i7, not the first BMW that I've tested on this channel, and so it's not the first one with this crazy look at the front. It kind of grows on you, but whatever, we'll focus on that later. The point, though, is the basics are it's a full-size luxury sedan. Long sedan, just like you've seen with these other luxury ones. Huge hood, it's longer But with that they move all the Pretty good amount of trunk space, huge backseat, huge front seat. And it's got dual motors It'll do zero to 60 in about So it's not slow by any means. And at a full charge, I am seeing about 270 to 280 miles of range. I looked on their website like 300 to 320, but I think in winter you'll probably expect This is the way it's designed. I would personally never get this color, but I get that people probably don't mind that. You can see the taillights here Of course, it's still the classic BMW logo with one of the cameras here on the back. And if you wanna open the trunk, I'll just go ahead and pretty good amount of trunk space. Not the biggest opening here. I tried to put a box in here but it still worked. And you have subtrunk space, too, for all your charging equipment if you wanna put it down And that is your trunk. So nothing too shocking there. It is automatically opening and closing. And then you get around to the side, I mean, it's not a surprise but what's inside really And I kind of just want to get to that. I mean, we could talk about the outside. You wanna talk about the wheels here? Big wheels, 21-inch wheels front and back. Pretty big brakes as well. Oh, it has these crystal headlights. Look at these DRLs are all crystally, kind of like the Flying Spur again. Then these inset real Squinting pig is what I'll call it. Kind of looks like a squinting pig. Now, when I was talking full-size luxury sedans, that are aiming to be soft much more than they are So maybe a standard Model S, I think the Lucid and the and firmer even at their And the Maybach is kind And the Flying Spur is I would take this over all of them, and I mean that when I say it. And that's half because but there's so much tech inside that it's kind of incredible. So let's just get right into that. It actually starts with the door. This is the door handle here. You can hit that button right there and it'll pop open a little bit, but also it will completely and it has sensors to know based on if there's a car next to you or something like that. So let's try that again. It closes by itself. If I'm not next to the Checks, now there's nothing next to it, so it opens all the way. That's pretty fire. You get in the car. If I want to close the door, I put my foot on the brake That's already pretty solid. If you wanna open it automatically, you hit that button right there. It's capacitive, which but it does the same thing. And I kind of just wanna Now, this is for sure 100% one of the cars that I would rather be in the But if we're gonna get about being in the front seat. And to be fair, it's a very I was looking at these seats before. They say &quot;leather&quot; because but then the bottom half is cloth, and I was a little bit I mean, it's comfortable but it doesn't really feel quite as luxurious as the ones that are all full leather. So I'll at least mention that. But this carpeting here is super soft. Everything around me is comfortable. The headliner is soft Alcantara. Everything is really well built. And it almost goes to the extreme as far comfort and quietness. It doesn't do frameless windows. It does these big huge framed windows to have incredibly good noise I can have a whisper, I tested this, a whisper quiet conversation It's so quiet, just talking like this. Because the road is so that you don't even hear at highway speed. So you look around here at the basics. The steering wheel, pretty nice. Comfortable leather, couple buttons over here, You've got these air conditioner vents, and let's just look at these for a second. They are capacitive, so you on how much or how little air you want or just tap, which I don't love. It still feels like I have to look to make sure I confirm but at least it's pretty responsive. And then there's this that lets you point the So that sort of system works well. I just accidentally opened the door. That's probably why you don't But that's a sort of There is a lot of metal and but there also is a lot of glossy plastic, especially here in the middle. We've talked about this This light, this crystal it shines, it bounces like all over the car through the prism. It is what it is. This start/stop button If I'm gonna nitpick, I because there's just a that are gonna accumulate around here. But wireless charger up not a distraction for the driver. Two cup holders, some storage, and some USB-C ports in there. And, of course, a door storage, your handle, and all the window controls and child lock and stuff over here. And then seat controls, lock and unlock. Good to go. Here's your two screens up front with BMW's newest iDrive system. This one is actually kind of interesting, because if you wanna behind the steering wheel, which will overlay directions But that's only when you're using the built-in navigation system. You also have Android Auto which I much prefer, but There's also a really good HUD. You can see where it And you can choose what and on this layout down So it's pretty good. It's responsive, it's straightforward. All this stuff makes sense to me. And so that's sort of just a moot point. There's other stuff and there's all kinds of crazy tech still. This up here, it's got a sensor so that I can do this I told you guys this is not something I would want to do while driving, but the fact that it works is You can change the sound to an iconic Hans Zimmer sound, and he actually composed There is just a crazy amount and tech just in the front seat. And briefly, the driving is super luxury focused. So very soft, very It has three-and-a-half super, super lightweight steering. I mean, you're driving around and it feels like you're barely connected You're just kind of which is, I guess, how you'd especially if you're in the But there's one other thing and I never thought I but the voice assistant in this It's pretty decent. It does things like, you use the keyword, &quot;Hey, BMW, close the roof shade.&quot; - [Computer] Closing - And it's pretty responsive at knowing what I actually want it to do. And it can do a surprising It can change your drive and down the volume, it can the heated seats, change all the basic stuff you'd want to do. So if the capacitive stuff happening on the dash is a little too much, yeah, the voice assistant is pretty good. There are microphones so that it knows which seat So if I'm in the back seat close or open my shade,&quot; what seat you're in, it will because it knows what seat It's kind of good. Most underwhelming piece by far is the speakers. These are the Bowers &amp; Wilkins speakers. They are an optional upgrade, I believe. There are speakers like There are also speakers in the headrests and there are speakers And they are very average I much prefer, I mean, the but pretty much any other just as good as if not better than these. But that's enough talking I want to show you the tech because it is on another level. So let's hit that button right there and hit that button right here. This one, same deal. Everything's automatic, as you'd expect. And let's hop into the biggest backseat you could possibly need. And this is the automatic Ooh, so, where do I begin? I mean, obviously, maybe it's not obvious, tons of leg room, pretty lots of ambient lights everywhere. Don't forget about the microphones. But in general, it's really This could be a three-seater in the back but I don't really think you want to put a second person in the back. These are the executive back seats. So these are the two sort of And then the middle, to having this armrest right here because you also get hidden cup holder, wireless charger, and then a whole bunch of storage in there and two USB-C ports. There is still a lot of cloth. This is all soft cloth. This part is leather, there's a cloth, and the seats like 60, 70% cloth and then have some leather up here. Super soft headrest right there. Hidden USB-C ports in You've got your HVAC But you've probably noticed this already, so let's just get into it. There's a screen here. Each of the passengers instead of having a tablet in the back. And I kind of like this that we've seen that are detachable, because they allow you about your specific seat's experience. What would you control Your climate control, your blinds. There's blinds in the back seat here. If I hit that little which is kind of like which is kind of fire. You also have the roof shade. You can control all that stuff. But, of course, there are And when I hit theater mode, and drops down a 30-inch 8K touchscreen to watch movies and This has to boot up. It does this whole And because all the shades are down now, everything is much more visible. If the shade was up, it like you see the reflection over there. But it does this boot up sequence and it is an Amazon Fire Stick UI. This car has its own sim So when you connect it it's like another device, like an iPad or something like that. And so it can automatically to the internet and you can from a Fire Stick, because Now, if I can nitpick a little in the back, UI is really and that's really most of this car. There's so much tech, but Basically, this is the Fire and then you have a which right now is just So I don't know, you kind of Then when you wanna change you do most of the controls over on the touchscreen on the left. Okay, change aspect ratio to or 16 x 9, or change the Change where it is in the car. Maybe I'm the only one watching a movie. Put it back in the middle for everyone. All of that is from the side. But if I wanna actually this part, it's a little bit jenky. Sometimes it responds But you can fire up a movie, or you can sort of use this by jumping into the UI Fire TV, continue. And now this up and down and scroll between things It's kind of annoying to have and get through all the automatically know I want to Either way, let's fire up. I hear this was a pretty good movie. &quot;Top Gun,&quot; okay, maybe resume &quot;Top Gun.&quot; There we go. And we're into the movie. And the speakers will be and we see everything in Also, they say it's 8K. I can't verify that it's 8K. This is streaming from Amazon Fire Stick. I don't even think that can stream in 8K. I think that's just sort they can throw out at us. But it looks pretty good. I mean, it looks pretty good for the screen in the back of a car. So I don't hate this. There's also an onscreen so you can scroll up and You can move this over, I mean, it works, okay? It's not the most comfortable Hopefully, you don't of navigating through and pull up YouTube and watch It's not fast at all But it works. And you can pull up a and watch it in 4K on the screen. Matter of fact, I don't in the YouTube app. It's telling me I have to use and pull it up with the remote. So as you can see, the UI but it's just like this car I don't know how else to explain that that's something I've never seen before. And it's a giant screen I just wanna reach over that's under there, but that doesn't work. It has to use the remote and then I have to skip So that's the only challenge. That's literally the only challenge is UI. Now, I didn't even show you lounge mode. This is one more crazy thing you can do with this executive backseat. Okay, so there was modes. Now I'm just gonna go, I wish because when we go to My I think relaxed mode might Nothing really changed. It's kind of unclear what these modes are actually going to do. Obviously, theater mode does this. But if you go to the seats and you see that button right and wait for about 30 this front seat here, to basically touch the windshield. This automatically happens on motors. This is obviously also well, maybe the driver but this seat moves all the way up. This footrest motor rises out. This kind of pumps up, as you'll see, start to move my feet in a second, and it leans me all the way back and sort of creates princess experience, which So what's that, about 30 seconds? We just got everything set up. This entire thing is laid out. I am destroying the rear and also his side visibility, in the way of him seeing that mirror. But I am so comfortable, I don't even... Officer, I'm chilling, I just wanna remind you, of the Maybach, this is This is undercutting Mercedes S-class. This is undercutting No, not the Plaid, the Plaid is about 105. This is about 120 to start. But this is a crazy back seat. And it's kind of just a part You can get driven around I would prefer to be driven in this car instead of driving it. So I guess it's time for a conclusion, so I have to get out of my to go over this. But I think the point here is I like a lot of things about this car. There are some quirks when you actually live with it, things like the fact to be up a certain amount in order for the backseat user to Look at, this looks insane. I also don't think it's the prettiest car in the world, but hey, to each his own. There's some pigs out But honestly, I'm thinking to the fact that this is still one of the best types of This is what I was saying which is like, okay, you luxurious four-door sedan, right? What do people want when they buy those? They want it to be comfortable, obviously. They want it to have a lot of space. They want it to be quiet, And they already know it's gonna be heavy and it's gonna be expensive. Okay, well, that seems because now you end up with this, which is the quietest It's the smoothest There's also a faster like a three-and-a-half second zero to 60, in case you're into that. But it's still expensive and it's the best version of everything. And it's also, they put with the executive backseat, and I think they did a good job. I don't know, let me know what you think. Is there anything you don't like about the M70 version of I'm super curious. This might be the best luxury Thanks for watching. Catch you guys in the next one, peace.