(gentle music) - [Narrator] Germany's conceal an underwater It's one of nature's best-kept secrets. Hidden beneath the surface are some little-known and bizarre animals. From swarms of microscopic and some of the largest This is a journey unlike any other, from the snow-clad peaks of the Alps to the tidal waters of the North Sea, offering a rare glimpse into a colorful and (dramatic music) The journey begins in the Alps, Europe's highest mountain range. (birds squawking) In the Berchtesgaden National Park, the sun's warming rays melt to reveal the first signs of spring. Underneath a large and silently carves away at the ice, forming a large underground cave. Drop by drop, the glacial into the icy stream below, Every cubic meter of snow yields more than two bathtubs full of water. It's a huge reservoir of fresh Each spring, torrents of meltwater pour down the mountainsides, producing some of the highest including the Roethbach Falls At the base of the fall, the water continues its seeping into the porous limestone rocks. The Eisbach River shares a similar fate. It disappears into the ground just before reaching the Konigsee. This deep fjord-like lake is renowned for its clear blue waters (bell ringing) (slow music) The steep walls of the lake seem to continue endlessly downwards. The Konigsee is one of At the shallow end of the lake, the cold waters of the The crystal clear waters creating a unique habitat. A shoal of small fish seeks shelter among the sunken trees They make an easy meal for predators. But the large northern pike The ferocious water wolf is the most powerful predator in the lake. And even other hunters, such With a length of up to a meter and a half, the size of a 12 year old boy, it dwarfs all others in the lake and has no natural enemies other than man. Small fish and invertebrates amongst the water plants and sunlit parts of the lake. The pike is an ambush predator which has a trick up its sleeve. Its colors and markings so that it's well camouflaged. Some have yellow golden stripes and spots. While others are a silvery blue. At the beginning of May, the pike gather in their favorite spawning sites ready for the breeding season. The males arrive a few She is the larger of the two and he needs to keep up with This mating ritual can last several days. The smaller male may well be Pike are known to resort to and will not shy away from But nature has found a Females do not feed during ensuring that their partners (bell ringing) The social life of frogs and toads is a less precarious affair. They do not partake in cannibalism. The beginning of the breeding season is an excuse for one gigantic party. (upbeat orchestral music) While intentions may be amorous, things can sometimes get out of hand. In the ensuing mating frenzy, may risk drowning the After two or three days of (dramatic music) A storm is brewing above (thunder rumbling) A heavy downpour quickly raises the water levels in the Konigsee. Within a few hours the Now there is only one way out of the lake, through the Konigsee weir. This manmade barrier helps Countless brooks and streams carve their way down the mountainsides. What starts as a trickle soon gathering in force both The power of the water wearing down rocks and entire mountains. The River Rhine is one such stream borne high up in the Alps. (dramatic music) Now it winds its way towards the plains until it enters its waters one of Germany's biggest lakes, depositing huge amounts of sediments carried down from the mountains. (slow music) The cold turbid water Millions of tons of sediment are poured into the lake each year. The milky curtain gives and a dazzling array of A stickleback guards its nest and fans the eggs to ensure they have a steady supply of oxygen. A pair of pumpkinseed from North America, are immersed (dramatic music) In the deeper water of the lake, a hungry pike is on the prowl. Once it has identified a target there is little chance of escape. The victim's partner is The dense underwater forests are home to a more secretive hunter. It mostly hides among the and is rarely seen. A wels catfish, Europe's and a true giant. If conditions are right it can grow to over three meters in length It has strange whisker-like with which it engulfs its prey. Fantastic myths long surrounded which was believed to be In fact, the catfish prefers to hide in the dark depths of the lake. (slow dramatic music) Lake Constance is over 250 meters deep, formed by glaciers during the Ice Age. The little light that penetrates is not sufficient to sustain plant growth. Creatures that live here need Zebra mussels were accidentally and have rapidly multiplied. Today huge carpets of filtering tiny particles They have become an for many diving ducks. The burbot is the only that lives in freshwater. It also lives in the cold darkness at the bottom of the lake. The lake floor is home to a community of highly-specialized creatures. They scavenge on the dead that have sunk to the bottom. Freshwater crabs search They are nature's recyclers. And together with tiny worms and bacteria ensure that nothing is wasted. Lake Constance is also a Numerous old wrecks such lie in the dark, waiting for the sediments drifting down from above (mid-tempo music) Lake Constance has long been for Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. And most of the shoreline Over 3.5 million people The large human population makes life increasingly difficult And each year another six million tourists and countless day visitors The lake is struggling to (slow dramatic music) Lake Constance has long attracted human settlers to its shores. And the evidence can still be The first settlements date These early pioneers built their houses on stilts in the water. The water offered them safety Today these ancient dwellings (birds squawking) The sunlit eddies of the The shallow waters are the perfect nursery grounds for small fish. It's easy pickings for the grey heron. The pumpkinseed fish are also raising their young in the warm water. (quirky orchestral music) The hardworking male has excavated a nest on the gravelly lake floor and is keeping a close Any intruders that venture too closely are quickly seen off. It's July, and all around hundreds of tiny tadpoles have (slow music) In recent years the has been improved by reducing pollution. It's had a positive impact And the clearer waters allow the tadpoles to develop earlier. The eggs of the pike The translucent globes are attached to the underwater vegetation. Inside the young pike are developing. The hatchlings still get nourishment from their yolk sac for a few days, until they're big enough to hunt for food. The Rhine continues to flow and emerges at the southwestern end to resume its journey as a river. Soon after it turns into forming the biggest waterfalls in Europe, the Rhine Falls of Schaffhausen. The course of the river now takes it through the mountain and the famous Black Forest. During the last ice age, were buried beneath large glaciers. The many small lakes are The Schluchsee was originally But in the 1930s a dam was built to turn it into a huge water reservoir, the highest in Germany. Its dark yellow waters (slow music) The curious color comes from balls of peat sitting at the bottom of the lake. During the Second World War and dead wood to hide it from enemy planes looking to bomb the damn. The Allies never found the lake and the peat is still here today, giving the water its dark brown tint. (slow music with vocalization) The murky water also hides The remnants of the old original dam. It's a lost world now occupied by the real inhabitants of the lake. Others have erected a And a little further, a (dramatic music) East of the Schluchsee is 30 kilometers long, formed Wutach mean furious water. And indeed, the white water has carved out the deep gorge in little more than 70,000 years. It has created its own microclimate with an extraordinary diversity Amongst them is a the star gentian. More than 600 different kinds of butterfly live within the gorge. As well as countless (gentle music) Mayflies perform their This annual spectacle is short-lived. Most of them will be dead Below the surface, a trout is A large school of minnows The clear water reveals a scuttling between the rocks, the larvae of insects such that start their life underwater. They make easy pickings for those who know where to find them. The dipper specializes in just such prey. The dipper uses its The hungry chicks need constant feeding. Someone else is also looking for food, a fire salamander. (quirky music) It's searching the riverbank Fire salamanders need small streams with cold clean water to live in. The Wutach provides This female is about to give birth and needs to seek out water urgently. (gentle music) Unlike most amphibians, which lay eggs, fire salamanders give birth to live young. The fully developed baby salamanders are released straight into the water. She will give birth to up As soon as they leave the young salamanders have Their mother's job is done. (gentle music) Not so for the mother dipper. She still needs to care even though the chicks have left the nest. Her job is to introduce and show them how to hunt for food. (dramatic music) But the young chick is not convinced. It will take another few are ready to brave the torrents. (quirky music) The young fire salamanders They have to catch their own dinner. But it will take a little practice. His perseverance pays off. (slow music) The water coursing has traveled from the through rock crevices, lakes, and streams. But its journey is not just overland. (dramatic music) Water can cover great Millions of tiny droplets and float across the sky. Eventually they return to earth as rain and continue their journey on land. Some droplets choose a more unusual route. They seep through the porous rocks, forming underground streams, as in the limestone hills Prehistoric fossils litter the river bed. And eventually the water is forced out again as a natural spring. The remarkable turquoise or blue cauldron, comes of limestone in the water. And beneath it is a vast network of caves which has only recently been discovered. (slow music) Modern diving equipment has enabled us to venture into this alien world. The entrance to the cave system lies 20 meters below the surface. A little further and the divers find the bone of a human arm. It's one of the many mysteries Diving here is tricky and dangerous, and much of the vast Only the most experienced divers are allowed down here (gentle music) The deeper they penetrate, enormous caves the size of cathedrals and the most spectacular It's a majestic fairyland of stone pillars, and stone curtains. It's a challenge navigating and not without its hazards. One moment they face the The next, a descent into a deep sinkhole. So far only 10 kilometers of the cave system has been explored. But it's thought to be Cave exploration is as much Part of the aim is to map and get a better The hard work and (mid-tempo music) Chemical analyses may provide clues as to the source of the water (dramatic music) At the northern rim of the directly from the River The Upper Rhine is more having been straightened It was once up to three winding its way through Until a few decades ago the In recent years this has changed, bringing back many of the fish Along the small side arms of the river, swampy forests that once are still preserved today. It's Germany's Amazon, rich in wildlife. Crystal clear waters, a near And it's all down to the that feed clear cold (dramatic music) The result is a unique habitat with an unusual variety A large freshwater turtle appears to feel at home here. The near tropical conditions are maybe not that different It's an idyllic scene of yellow flowers of the bladderwort. But beneath the surface (slow music) The bladderwort is a carnivorous hunter. The small bladders are Inside there is a partial vacuum. The slightest touch to and the trapdoor flies open, It all takes just a split second. The flooded forests are also home to a larger predator, the European otter. (upbeat music) With its long streamlined body, it's perfectly adapted to a life in water. The thick waterproof fur keeps so they can play for hours on end. For centuries otters were and disappeared from Today they are protected and populations are (birds chirping) It's midsummer. The pike hatchlings are now But small fish only need small meals, fish spawn, water fleas, They are still only four centimeters long but already bold enough But this one has bitten (slow music) Other small hunters are Tiny soft-bodied polyps called hydra stretch out their thin Their tentacles are lined stinging cells that will fire poisonous threads into their victim. A dense cloud of freshwater shrimp. They've invaded Western and are spreading rapidly through Germany. Divers have reported of millions of animals. A jellyfish, another invasive species. Originally from Southeast Asia, it has successfully managed It's the only freshwater This exotic invader feeds and other small invertebrates. So far it seems to be causing The turtles calmly watch the Newcomers and old residents live peacefully side by side here. It would seem that not all new arrivals are harmful to the environment. Some simply make our natural (slow music) It's autumn and there's change in the air. The colorful autumn leaves before sinking to the It's an annual cycle of life and death that is played out both Purple sulfur bacteria and decompose the dead It's a surreal landscape. The purple globes floating Each autumn the bacteria But by the coming spring This underwater wall of fog It's a sign that winter is on its way. (birds squawking) The eerie calls of the common as they gather to begin (slow music) The otter's thick fur also protects it against the cold winter. All it needs at this time of year is some open water where (slow music) A thick layer of ice is formed, sealing off the shallow pools and lakes. The cold temperatures have driven most creatures into hiding. The fish seek out a sheltered and sit out the winter in a torpor. They slow down their to save energy and wait for spring. Once temperatures rise again, the water, now locked in ice, will be freed once more and can continue its It's mid-February. Germany is in the icy grip of winter. (gentle music) The landscape is covered Only the vast, flowing streams (water sloshes) The freezing temperatures have created glassy sculptures along the way. (water sloshes) (gentle music) For weeks, the lakes have been locked away under a thick sheet of ice. (gentle music) Plants and animals lie dormant, waiting for the coming spring. (gentle music) Most fish, like the carp, near the bottom of the lake where temperatures remain around four degrees above freezing. (gentle music) They reduce their metabolism to a minimum and, literally, sit out the winter. (gentle music) Germany's largest freshwater fish, the Wales Catfish, is also sleeping it out on the lake bed. (gentle music) But not everyone's asleep. The Northern Pike hunts all year round. Nonetheless, it's hard Most smaller fish are in (water sloshes) The pike's hunting instinct (water sloshes) An unwitting crab immediately attracts attention. (water sloshes) It's little more than a but he keeps the hunger at bay. (water sloshes) (ominous music) This carp may have had a lucky escape, but the danger is not over yet. (ominous music) Other hunters are on the prowl above. (ominous music) (water sloshes) (ominous music) The sea eagle can spot through the ice. (water sloshes) (ominous music) The carp has little choice but to move. (ominous music) Woken suddenly from his torpor, he is sluggish and disorientated. (ominous music) (bird cries) This time, the eagle was frozen within the ice. (gentle music) The Eiffel Region in Western Germany is pockmarked with circular lakes. They were formed 20,000 years when cold ground water The resulting craters (upbeat music) One of them is still above It last erupted 13,000 years ago. (water bubbles) The volcano continues to releasing foul-smelling (water bubbles) Moisture-laden clouds race across the sky towards the Harz Mountains. (gentle music) The forested hills, the in Northern Germany, are known for their fairytale landscape. (gentle music) (water sloshes) A muskrat is waiting for spring and the fresh growth of plants. (water sloshes) The first warm days in March triggers a sudden burst of activity. (dramatic slow music) Frogs, awaken from hibernation, with only one thing on their mind. (dramatic slow music) (water sloshes) (frogs croak) The Harz region is endowed of lakes and reservoirs, and over 500 kilometers that were once built for the (birds singing) (gentle music) It's one of the largest historical water management systems in the world. And has been declared (gentle music) (birds call) (gentle music) The sun's warming rays finally melt away the last signs of winter. (gentle music) (birds sing) (gentle music) (water sloshes) (gentle music) The rush of melt water sets the wheels of the water mill in motion. (water sloshes) In the past, wheels like this would have worked the old mining lifts, transporting people and (birds sing) (water sloshes) (birds sing) Today, the man-made waterways provide a welcome refuge for amphibians, Alpine newts. (playful music) The male fans his tail (playful music) It's the breeding season. The males have turned a dark blue color, while the females are a drabber brown. (gentle music) (water sloshes) The extensive network of manmade canals eventually gives way to (gentle music) In spring, the mount water turns these into rushing torrents. (water sloshes) (gentle music) The powerful force of the water wears down the rocks and (gentle music) or perfectly formed, round marbles. (gentle music) Living in fast-flowing streams For small fish, swimming while searching for prey, is no easy feat. (gentle music) Young rainbow trout behind the rocks and dislodged by the current to drift by. (gentle music) A causality from above is The tranquil waters of a lake provide less challenging conditions. A great crested newt, a larger (bird sings) (water sloshes) (playful music) It's spotted a small water flea. (playful music) Gotcha. (water sloshes) The smallest inhabitants of the lake face the greatest hazards. Of the many thousands of tadpoles, only a few will survive (gentle music) This little fellow has to the spillway of the lake. (gentle music) Having survived the dangerous drop, it now faces the gauntlet (gentle music) At last, it reaches the (gentle music) The new pond is home to caddis fly larvae, which from bits of dead vegetation. (gentle music) The predator of this water It's attracted by the hundreds of tadpoles swarming at the water's edge. (birds singing) It's got its eye on one (water sloshes) (birds singing) The beetle sucks out its leaving behind the empty shell. (birds singing) (gentle music) The Harz Region's still hold many secrets. The clear, blue waters hidden from our eyes. (gentle music) They are teeming with life, a vibrant community of creatures that lead their lives below the surface. (gentle music) The European eel has traveled to reach these waters. It started life out in the Atlantic, entering Europe's estuaries Swimming upstream against the current, the young eel finally reach It will stay here until in a few years time, and then return to the (water sloshes) The pike, on the other hand, spends its entire life in these lakes. (ominous music) Young pike are already born (ominous music) (dramatic music) (water sloshes) Even a small hatchling has a (water sloshes) Although this one may have bitten off more than it can chew. (water sloshes) (ominous music) The most mysterious creatures of all are the microscopic organisms of the lake, strange alien lifeforms (gentle music) In fact, they are tiny (gentle music) They filter nutrients from the water, taking advantage of the flow generated by colonies of mussels. (water sloshes) (gentle music) The small coral-like creatures attach themselves to any hard substrate, forming a moss-like covering that has earned them their (gentle music) There are some 5,000 different kinds, and yet, they remain largely (gentle music) They live in colonies of (gentle music) Each one is a little more but, together, they filter the water like a gigantic purification system. (gentle music) (water roars) In the lower Harz, the water makes its way through narrow valleys and gorges. (water roars) It also disappears underground, seeping through the porous limestone rock, (water sloshes) carving out huge caverns It drips from the walls creating spectacular calcium formations. Deep down, in the heart of the caves, is the lair of a dragon. (water sloshes) The olm cave salamander was once thought to be a dragon baby. It owes its strange appearance to living in permanent darkness. Having no use for eyes, and finds its way around (gentle music) Unlike other salamanders, that grow as red tufts (gentle music) The animals in this cave were introduced from Croatia some 80 years ago. They are all males, so cannot breed. In these cold waters, they can and live to be nearly 100 years old. (gentle music) (dramatic music) Emerging out of the lower Harz, numerous streams pour their waters into one of Germany's (dramatic music) The young river winds its way through spectacular sandstone cliffs. (dramatic music) Bizarre rock formations tower over one of Germany's most iconic (gentle music) Just north of the Sandstone Mountains, the scenery changes dramatically. (machines humming) The extraction of coal has left A vast and barren (gentle music) Nothing was able to grow not even a blade of grass. (gentle music) When water was finally redirected to flood the abandoned quarries, life returned to the region once more. (gentle music) The murky waters still of human destruction that (gentle music) Animals slowly recolonize (gentle music) European pike were some their eggs transported on (gentle music) Local anglers and fisherman reintroduced carp and other fish into the waters. (water sloshes) And it wasn't long before was transformed into a rich (water sloshes) (gentle music) Ornamental koi, a have also found their way here. (gentle music) They happily interbreed to produce a colorful mix (gentle music) (water sloshes) (gentle music) Carp can grow to be over a meter long and weigh as much as (water sloshes) They stir up the sediment looking for small worms and insects. (water sloshes) Returning abandoned mine pits to nature is an environmental success story. New water breeds new (birds singing) (gentle music) (dramatic music) It's early spring, and the creating vast floodplains. (gentle music) The water causes chaos to human lives, but nature deals much better with it. (birds screeching) (gentle music) Flood meadows, in fact, depend (gentle music) (insects chirp) Dragonflies are busy laying their eggs. Each male guards his at the back of the neck. (gentle music) (insects buzz) The ground beetle is on the prowl, again. (ominous music) He's caught a female dragonfly off guard. (ominous music) (gentle music) A grass snake is also out hunting. (gentle music) (water sloshes) It's good swimmer and is (gentle music) (water sloshes) The flood water awakens a creature that has lain dormant for years. (birds chirp) As the pools fill with water, a tiny fossil comes back to life, the triops, or tadpole shrimp. It has survived almost and is thought to be the (gentle music) (water sloshes) The tadpole shrimp's eggs can for decades, hatching (gentle music) The tiny crustacean leads digging into the sediment Most are females and They produce offspring by virgin birth, from unfertilized eggs. (gentle music) (water sloshes) Eventually, the floodwater into canals and rivers. (gentle music) North of the River Elbe, in lies Germany's lake district, the land of a thousand lakes. (dramatic music) It has over 2,000 lakes, (gentle music) (bird calls) Peaceful coves and vast reed beds provide a safe refuge for a (birds singing) A bit-han hides among the thick reeds. Its young chicks are almost (birds singing) The secretive bird is rarely seen, it's mottled brown plumage among the tall grass. (birds singing) Another wetland resident signs of its presence. It cuts down trees and (birds singing) The beaver was hunting to near extinction in Europe by the 20th Century. But, today, its large lodges are becoming a frequent sight once more. (water sloshes) (rustling) Inside, the adults are of up to six kits. (kits whining) (rustling) (water sloshes) The young beavers are already and learning which They spend most of their time playing and copying their parents. (water sloshes) They still have a lot to learn, and will gradually gain the courage to venture further afield, into the vast underwater (gentle music) Mecklenburg's lakes are like no other, with an astonishing (gentle music) There are over 50 and, amongst them, some (gentle music) The Atlantic sturgeon, (gentle music) an ancient and prehistoric-looking fish. (gentle music) Sturgeons have been around and swam with the dinosaurs. (gentle music) Sadly, today, this extraordinary is critically endangered. (water sloshes) (gentle music) The biggest threat facing most fish today are not their natural predators, but man. Fishing lines, baskets, and nets take more than their fair Even powerful hunters like the pike, often become the hunted. (ominous music) (water sloshes) (ominous music) 39,000 tons of fish are and inland waters every year, around a quarter of those, from (ominous music) In Mecklenburg, fishing is (ominous music) The key to sustainable fishing is to avoid over-harvesting and depleting Populations need to be able to recover for fish and fishing to (ominous music) Fishermen have long been an integral part of the Mecklenburg lake district and so has the osprey. The large raptor feeds but only takes what it needs to survive. (water sloshing) Although it sometimes takes it never threatens to upset (birds singing) Cormorants are also superb fishermen. (birds calling) In shallow waters with plentiful fish, the birds flourish and breed prolifically. (birds singing) After years of persecution, their populations are now (birds singing) (water sloshes) To prevent the overfishing local fishermen have to ensure that the waters are regularly restocked. (water sloshes) Small fish farms guarantee a regular supply of juvenile fish. (birds singing) (scrubbing) A more unusual breeding to reintroduce the European (birds singing) This native species was driven close to extinction by a deadly fungus brought by the Signal Crayfish. (birds singing) The hope is that these the European crayfish (birds singing) The female carries the for half the year, until they hatch. The male has bigger claws, the special pair of forward facing legs, that are used for mating. (birds singing) The reintroduction program A number of Mecklenburg's rivers and lakes now have stable populations. (gentle music) (birds calling) As the sun sinks below the horizon, the lake comes alive with the night shift. (ominous music) The American signal crayfish much like its European cousin. (ominous music) Now it emerges to look in the sediment. (ominous music) A rainbow trout is also (ominous music) All this activity predator on the block. (ominous music) The pike. (ominous music) The pike has a veracious (ominous music) Not surprisingly, it hunts, both, during the day and at night. (ominous music) Any little movement catches its eye. So it pays to hide or make a quick escape. (ominous music) (water sloshes) (ominous music) A muskrat swimming overhead is oblivious to the danger below. This time, it is lucky. (birds calling) South of Mecklenburg, the River Elbe slowly makes its way (birds singing) The name, Elbe, comes from (birds singing) (gentle music) The flow of the water keeps the river's inhabitants on the move. (gentle music) The Chinese mitten crab under a large rock. (gentle music) Since 1990, the water quality and fish populations (gentle music) The Atlantic salmon was once but, by the beginning of the 20th Century, it had completely disappeared. (gentle music) Reintroduction efforts began And, three years later, the first fully grown adults were seen. Now, numbers are on the increase. (gentle music) The aim is to boost the population until it can sustain (gentle music) Another endangered fish has had to wait much longer for a helping hand. (gentle music) The tiny hatchlings of (gentle music) They're being raised in the (gentle music) Sturgeon meat and eggs sold as caviar are a lucrative business. Fish farms, such as this one, not only reduce the but also help with the Some of the young hatchlings bred here are destined to be released The tiny eggs, or black gold, are the reason why the sturgeon Here the eggs are artificially Each step of the breeding is carefully controlled and monitored. A few days after fertilization, the young fish larvae hatch. (gentle music) The hatchlings are miniature They'll need to be around before they're ready to (gentle music) The young sturgeons will be set free in carefully selected, suitable rivers. (playful music) But the small fish are not use to the strong pull of the current. And some still need a little (playful music) Small tags on the dorsal to identify and monitor (upbeat music) It's the beginning of a new a life full of new challenges and dangers. (upbeat music) Not all of them will make it to adulthood. (water sloshes) Specially designed fish to help them to pass safely (water sloshes) Europe's biggest fish way is on the banks of the Elbe at geez-taht. It's large enough to allow the migrating sturgeon to pass through, and make their way to the North Sea. (water sloshes) But, before they reach the open ocean, the fish face one last hurdle, Hamburg City, Germany's busiest port. (gentle music) Here, the waters are dark and turbid, heavy with sediments and industrial waste. (upbeat music) It's a bleak and desolate (ominous music) It's hard to believe that any fish could survive in these murky waters. But the sturgeon have little trouble making their way through (ominous music) There are over 20 species and most are bottom-feeders. While some spend their a few embark on a migration (water sloshes) (ominous music) All sturgeon have sensitive which they drag along the river bed, feeling their way around. (ominous music) Eyes are of little use So they use touch and Being slow-growing, and sturgeon are particularly And most species are currently endangered. (ominous music) (water sloshes) (upbeat music) Escorted by gigantic ocean liners, the river now enters the North Sea. (upbeat music) The North Sea Coast, with its vast mudflats and salt marshes, is one of the richest ecosystems on Earth, and much of it, a national park. (gentle music) As the tide retreats, it exposes the huge expanse of bare mud, a community of specialist The animals that live here are adapted to extreme changes in (birds crying) The sand piles emerging from the soft mud are made by tiny burrowing worms. They provide plentiful food for birds, like oyster catchers. (water sloshes) To eat and be eaten. One moment a predator, the next, prey. (gentle music) From the tidal estuary, the sturgeon finally reach the open ocean. (gentle music) Their journey takes them Helgoland, Germany's most distant island. (gentle music) It's famous for its red sandstone cliffs that distend deeply into the water. (gentle music) The waters here are spectacularly another well-kept secret of (gentle music)