[MUSIC] I'm here today because I'm a survivor I'm a survivor but only born in a concentration camp right at the very end of But that comes right at I start my story with this map This is one of Sir He was a very well-known of the Holocaust of Churchill. This map shows, certainly not all because but it shows quite a that existed in during the Second World War. As I say, it doesn't It does show all the death camps, the red ones on the right. Everywhere where you the Nazi emblem, and that name indicates a concentration The three camps that my the three names you The first one is That is the German word for used to be called Czechoslovakia and is now called The Czech word for which I tend to use simply Czech and I find it less of a mouthful than saying The second place you the Auschwitz Birkenau But I'm not sure how many of you know the name Mauthausen. Certainly, I think more of you being in the know of this place as opposed to where I speak most of the Well, I'm getting Sorry, you'll hear Now because I also the other reason why I use this particular map is to the inset in the circle in the top left-hand see a map of part of There you can also The swastika is over over Jersey and Guernsey and Alderney because they were There were Jewish They were either imprisoned they were sent to So that shows how closely the whole thing Now because I'm telling it comes naturally to me to This is a photograph My father was German but Jewish. It has an interesting 1913, so just one year before the start of I'm sure you're all well aware of the fact that we are now in the last year of commemorating Up to December of 2013, there was one person still and that was the little girl. Her name was Carla. She lived in New York and she but she had reached the I understand this was It was where the every summertime on one The people you're going from that same photograph now, the adults in the background are my grandparents with their three children My father is the little boy Now in 1933 when Adolf Hitler all those three children They were all grown up and they all realized that it would be advisable if they could The first one to leave He left Germany and Holland where he met and married a Dutch lady When the Germans invaded Holland, they managed to escape Switzerland being during the Second World War. There my uncle joined I want you to tell me what the uniform is Come on. What nationality? No. It's American. After the war, my uncle was very proud He would say to us, &quot;Look at me in GI in 'my jeep',&quot; so they were safe. My father's sister, Margot, she and her husband they managed to escape in December of 1938. But nevertheless, to get on the ship that was headed for Sydney in My cousin was about five but I don't happen to of him at that age. Here, I think he medical studies at He is, and I'm glad He's in his 80s now My own father, he left Germany in 1933 and he came the capital of Czechoslovakia. He thought that was far But if he hadn't he wouldn't have met not be standing in [NOISE] Now, I like to think of this as being I hope you might agree with me by the time you've seen them all. This is a photograph of my They were married on which was already under Nazi occupation of My father had been an architect When he first came to Prague, he managed to get a job working for a furniture Initially, he was employed at the Barrandov film studios My mother had been a law but when the Germans invaded, they closed all Nobody was allowed to study. She decided she was going that had more immediate She decided to become Now when I talk in I think I could say 90 percent of students have no idea I imagine that several of you here might know For those of you who don't know, a milliner is a hat-maker. Now, you may think a strange thing to go and do But I can assure you that in the 1940s women always wore hats. Even if they've just went they'd be properly turned out. So that was that. Now, as I'm sure, a lot of you know, when the Germans they immediately and regulations There are hundreds and hundreds of those rules and regulations, and they all come under of the Nuremberg laws. I will tell you of a few just First and foremost, Jewish people immediately lost They were no longer No intermarriage Jewish people and There was a curfew. Jews were not allowed to go Jewish children were immediately expelled from mainstream schools. They had to go to Jews were immediately thrown They could no longer be Jewish people were shopping at certain and very but the late afternoon been as little fresh produce In Prague, there are trams. Jews were only allowed to go on the outside but not Jewish people were no longer They had to hand them in. They were no longer their cars or their bicycles. They were no longer their telephones or their radios. There were no televisions. They were also forbidden theaters, swimming All those things were forbidden. Their lives were meant restricted within But because none of itself initially was people tended to think, well, if this is the worst we can cope with this, we can live with this. But by the same token, sometimes some people would very common human reaction. I'm sure you've all If you are told you are your gut reaction Whether you actually One day my mother decided the cinema despite the fact She was sitting in the When the Gestapo came in, the secret police, they came and they started to go by row looking at My mother was terrified because she had no idea how they got to her and when they saw the large J for They got to about halfway through the auditorium and they stopped, but they left the cinema. They had stopped just one row in front of where my Boy, did she breathe Ever since she told I was always trying to get her to remember what the [LAUGHTER] She also would've dearly like to have but it was such a and it was the first, far worse was to come, but she didn't know that. It was such a frightening obviously blanked out that memory and she never remembered. But what I can tell you is the UK and when I was safely in school trying to learn English I think my mother used to go to the cinema every single day. It was fantastic light relief for her after her She had this need, it was almost like an obsession, to catch up with the Now one of the later restrictions Jewish people that I'm was the fact that they Although this is quite you can see the stars This is a photograph of my mother's older sisters I have a genuine yellow but because of the filming, I'm not allowed to move around. If any of you would like to see it closer afterwards, This is a genuine yellow star. It has the word Jude which Everybody in the yellow star every time they went outside their own front door. You had to buy as many were members of the family My mother distinctly wearing the first time she She was wearing a a tan suede jacket, hat, gloves, and she She said it actually didn't look that bad on the suede jacket. But nevertheless, she was She was very worried react to her when she But every time my mother went outside wearing yellow star, nothing ever happened to her. People just ignored it and that was the Nobody pointed at her, nobody laughed at her, nobody was rude to her, nobody spat at her. All those things happened but it never happened to her. We speculated as she could think was she was full of self confidence and she was not she was not going to I think the fact that she [LAUGHTER] But that first day when she went outside wearing yellow star she met another friend of hers also wearing one This friend was very unhappy and very ashamed This lady was walking bent over double because My mother went up to her and basically gave her a pep &quot;Stand up straight, be Don't let the bastards That was very much which helped her enormously. Now there's a second reason why I use this particular photograph, and that is simply to show They are smiling because a walk, obviously before curfew. They were engaged to be I assume that the instant that they had forgotten that they were wearing the yellow star with any implication that it might have for them Very fortunately for them, they had absolutely no I will tell you about them later. My mother had another sister Ruze means Rose. This is my aunt Rose with my cousin Peter when The next picture shows with a photograph of his I just wonder if any know what the uniform [inaudible] Sorry. British. Yes, The reason for that is in 1939, my uncle managed to escape He got to the UK, he He also managed to get a visa for his wife and for his child, but tragically my The reason she because basically was a She said to her husband, We'll stay with my parents, with her parents, That was the attitude I would suggest of most Jewish people in occupied countries had any idea that they might let alone to something a concentration camp They had no idea. They just thought if they more or less stuck regulations, they'd be okay. That is human nature, you hope for the best. Again, I'll tell you what Also what I wanted to say is A lot of people came Yes, some people were hidden, but they were by far Now this is an aerial photograph of this place called It's about 40 miles Before the war, it was a garrison town where Czech But when the Germans invaded, the Czech army was disbanded this place into a ghetto Jewish people from all over Europe were sent there When I was growing up and I was asking my taken prisoner because I had I had read the Diary of I'd seen documentaries, and I had this picture in my mind that perhaps in the three o'clock in the have been soldiers soldiers with guns and dogs dragging people I said to her, &quot;Is that and she said, &quot;no, She said, we received a card in the post and the card said that on a certain day we would have to report Prague near one of the mainland railway stations At the end of November, the beginning of my father received You were told you could You were advised to You were also advised to which indicated to going somewhere where they they'll be able to and they assumed sent to some labor camp. A few days later, my mother received her card and she left. Not only was she carrying her she was also carrying It was about that big, and it was tied I said to her, &quot;What on earth You have enough to worry She said, well, I two or three dozen I said, why donuts? She said, well, you It was a very sensible had no idea where their so she was bringing food, just happened to be donuts. I said, did they get to him? She said, yes, they weren't but they're perfectly Now my mother had to spend in that warehouse with hundreds and hundreds They weren't given They had to sleep on the floor. At the end of those three days, they were marched to and the route was lined with young German There was one young German had a bit of power He didn't harm my he was just a bit I don't know if any of you, I'm sure lots of you I will say what he I will then translate it. I apologize for the swear This soldier could see great problems not only but mainly carrying the Certainly cake boxes much at least in England. They're still made although nowadays are tied After three days, the moisture from the donuts was making The whole box was coming This soldier could see She was having problems which means I couldn't give a dot dot dot if that box implying that it her much good where Now he couldn't have had any idea whatsoever what was all he knew was that it good and metaphorically speaking, he just wanted to But she ignored him, she got on the train, she arrives in Terezin. I'm now going to show you two drawings of Terezin more evocative of the place These drawings were done secretly by professional artists who These drawings were the end of the war They were discovered buried under the floorboards and in I use this particular the impression of a Because before the war when there would have been a few thousand soldiers But during the war when it was a ghetto and a there were thousands and people crammed into very, On the inside it People basically lived on bunks. They would try and a den for themselves with a few personal belongings that they had been able to bring. When families first that is the first time that those families would Men was sent to one part, women to another part, elderly people to another part, children to yet another part. They were able to meet up but to large extent they When my mother she was fortunate enough The jobs weren't but life was a bit Her job was working the responsibility for There wasn't much food there, but what there was they tried to share out in a fair fashion. That meant that she When I say she had access She would steal a an onion, just to make a more substantial soup. That was literally of vital importance because at one time my mother had every single day for 15 members of her close That was her main worry, how find enough food for That was quite apart from to what on earth was going to happen to them all in the future. Amongst the people she food for were her parents, my grandparents The next picture shows my father as a young man The next picture shows his Now my grandfather Louis my four grandparents to We believe there is a although we don't I mentioned at the beginning German, his father was German. In the First World War, my grandfather was In the First World War, given the Iron Cross First Class. That is the highest the Germans bestow What happens to him in He's thrown into a and most of his family is killed. My grandfather was not sent East. To be sent East was a euphemism, another way of saying the Auschwitz-Birkenau death camp. He remained in Terezin throughout the war and he was found to be While the Red Cross between him and my who by that stage had returned from no wonder there was and there was my grandfather in the rags that he stood up in and he lived with them When I was little girl, we used to go and visit It was very sad because I would come into the couldn't see me blinded by the gas in He couldn't speak to German and Dutch and I only But nevertheless, I'd I'd give him a kiss, I'd and he knew that I was the only surviving The next photograph I'm It shows you the gateway to the Auschwitz Birkenau But before I start that I have to tell you about happened to my To a large extent, Terezin was a transit camp for the death various categories of people who would have been to their deaths, quite quickly, and amongst those groups the old, the sick, pregnant women, the the physically disabled, sent to their deaths But because my parents and well capable of work, so they remained in That was a remarkably long, very unusually long my mother said luck had an But at the end of their luck ran out, because it was on that day that my father was sent to Auschwitz, and incredibly, my mother actually volunteered to The reason she was because she had no and being the eternal as they had survived three she thought, well, nothing Little did she know, but she thought nothing they would survive, but in fact, she never ever ever She heard from an quite soon after the war, that my father had actually Auschwitz on a death march As I'm sure you know, it was liberated the 27th of January 1945. That is why certainly, but certainly in Holocaust Memorial Day The other thing I have I'm sure you will appreciate because it concerns my conception and my brother's conception. I mentioned the fact that when families first came into Terezin, the sexes were segregated. In 1943, my mother she was actually pregnant, I don't know 12, 13, no doubt when it would have been at this most embarrassing, well, I'm sure you'll agree I said to her, ''So how can you got pregnant with my father?'' And she replied in a very &quot;It was very dangerous but your father and I got and to hell with the But it was not the end very very serious consequences. Because to become pregnant in a concentration by the Nazi's to be a because they were they we're trying to murder every single member They couldn't prevent the camps pregnant the segregation was not become pregnant while there. When the Nazi's and four other women they made these five couples sign a document that said that they would have to be Except they didn't they used the word euthanasia. My mother had never heard she had to go and ask If you look it up it'll say something this would not have been mercy killing, this In the event the other we don't actually know what we think they all When my brother [inaudible] he was born in February of 1944. He was not taken away from my parents but he pneumonia two months later and his death meant my Because had my mother arrived in Auschwitz Birkenau death camp holding my brother in her arms, she would have been sent but because she arrived in Auschwitz not holding my brother, and although she was pregnant again this time with she knew but nobody show because it was Again, she lived to I'm sure that you images of Auschwitz of the horrendous train journeys that people were put In fact, I'll ask of you Have any of you seen Schindler's When Schindler's my mother was given of it with another was interviewed afterwards Opinions vary, but she felt at least the she felt they was She felt as though she'd been transported back to those days, those times and those conditions, and when we came on to she was actually trembling. I don't know if a book in English schools or British Do you know The Boy in Well, because most nowadays know that book as opposed to those other two films. What I would like to it's a good book, but as I'm sure you appreciate, there's a very big but, absolutely nothing in the have happened because a false premise because that little Jewish boy who was meant to be about he would never have more than a few hours and also he would never have But John Boyd, the author, he was not writing a he was writing a novel, he was writing I think it does have its place, but if young people come and say, this is exactly what happened. No, it is not. The train journeys, people were herded into these cattle trucks, they were so crowded that they were given no and sometimes these There were no toilet facilities, there might have been a totally inadequate very quickly. By the time the trains in buried with the would have been in a very poor mental and physical condition especially the elderly Have any of you Auschwitz itself consisted Auschwitz I was brick built, and that is where all the That is where today it is not but also a museum where The collections of luggage, the collections of hair, the collections of spectacles, the collections of pots and But this Auschwitz II, Auschwitz Birkenau, this is This is where all the Jews were sent and were all the This photograph was taken The next photograph like today behind that gateway. This is a vast area right would have been filled such as you can see But because Auschwitz preserved in any way most of those wooden or the wood was stolen as But what you can see those uprights make a very sad memorial to all those thousands and who were killed there, because those uprights are They are nothing whatsoever but they are brick chimneys, because inside each hut you would have two of that height, and they'd be joined together by and there's a The idea was that you'd have great and the heat generated thereby giving warmth to the hut, but of course, they Their lives were meant to As I was saying, it is a to all those people As I'm sure you know, when the trains arrived in Auschwitz, that is the first time had to go through what Selection always My mother got through a still considered to be This was despite the somewhat malnourished during To give you an idea of my When she was 14 years of age, she was schools junior backstroke swimming That gives you an idea of She always maintained that if this whole experience She was at the right age, not only physically but She was in her mid 20s. She was tough, she was strong. She gets through a selection, and the people who did various procedures First of all, they were told if they'd managed to bring to put their suitcases on the ground to write that they would be well of course they weren't. They then were sent Well at this stage they at all that anything other than a real shower existed, i.e. gas chamber. They then had They then we're given and a pair of shoes Then they were tattooed with After that, there were On the inside it These huts were Some of them before the war might have been stables 60 or 70 horses, but at the time that they housed hundreds 500, 800, even up 2,000 people. When my mother and her friends arrived in a hut like this, they were so frightened they just could not work and I said to the women there, what happens here, When will we see The women actually laughed at them because they anybody arriving now would have no idea what went on there. They said, &quot;Well smoke and you never see In that instant, they People were given hardly any They were given a which was called coffee, another liquid in the evening, and if they're very lucky, perhaps they might have the odd potato peeling from They were given one That is all they were given. An awful lot of people You would often wake find corpses on Now apart from the selections the other thing that twice daily was Appell means registration. Sounds like a very I think you all might have had to register to come But anyway, what it every day at four o'clock in the morning and six everybody would have to stand outside their If the numbers we just have to stand until there was some explanation. My mother said it was stock still for hours and hours on end, regardless the weather. You tried to keep you could because you had no idea how the Nazis might react to you if for some reason you drew My mother actually fainted several times during and that could have been But she was always so relieved find that she was up by her friends on either side, which meant that she hadn't she hadn't drawn Then again, she lived The next picture will In the far distance, that long row of people the gas chambers to their deaths but they In the foreground the longer the shorter row women. They are walking towards where they will be selected My mother distinctly these selections where Dr. she only found out that it was He was presiding and she said it was a terrifying experience because she guessed She heard him say, [FOREIGN] which means this time we have very good not people, units of slave labor. They did not consider of them as being human beings. Now, all the rest of my family, except for my one grandfather My three other my cousin Peter and most of the other members of they were all sent to Auschwitz a long time before my When they arrived there, none of those initial They were able to their clothes, they they weren't tattooed, sent to what was called That meant a family camp. All it meant was those huts had families together. There was just one very and that was so that to write postcards home. My aunts, the lady wearing the yellow star in that she wrote this postcard to her cousin who still I want you to try to remember the first name and this lady, I will now put up Some of you may be will read you the It starts off with the &quot;I'm here, my dear ones, I'm here with my husband, my sister, and my nephew. All are well and in good health. My husband received a our housekeeper and I would ask you to Please also thank I hope you're well and happy. Your parents were very our departure, right soon. Peter looks well.&quot; Peter is &quot;Peter looks well and looks forward to receiving Greetings and kisses yours Dena.&quot; Now I imagine that me that that basically having a wonderful time [BACKGROUND] My aunt was desperate to get a She got the message It was acted upon. Several of you may have already noticed what the word was. The postcards had German so that the Germans In the top left-hand corner you can see the Sidonie Isidore. She'd married that man Underneath that is her birthday, the 21st of March, 1904. Underneath that it says Birkenau. Does anybody remember the lady to whom it was sent? Olga The word Olga does not feature. Where the word Olga [FOREIGN] which is not Hebrew. Hebrew. What does it mean? Bread. Bread. My aunt was telling her cousin that Her cousin understood, but the contents of stolen long before it I'm afraid I have to tell the postcard was sent they were all dead. I have just actually donated this postcard to Holocaust Galleries in London and I'm very glad that I'm no Now, my mother was She was sent to a slavery camp, to an honors factory in which is fairly close where she was made to work on this and what's The V1, it was the When my mother and arrived in this the very first had was one of bed bugs. The place was crawling, on the walls, on the ceiling Why? You're very close. They didn't actually but it meant there not much, but there was some. It also meant there was very quickly ascertained that there were no gas chambers there. After a few days and isn't the bug starts but after what they now shoots, it was negligible. Unknown to my mother she was to spend the next six That is from October of the beginning of April of 1945. As I'm sure you know, the end of the war in During those six months, she was becoming progressively and more and more obviously, pregnant, which was But fortunately, none she was pregnant because they might well have sent her back to Auschwitz to be killed. We do know of cases Mengele took the most on them because he felt But they did not Or when they discovered it, it was actually had During the six months that that is when the of Dresden took placed. I'm sure you know about It's been a lot of controversy but I hope that you that in this particular context, I'm talking to you from my mother's very From her perspective, the What happened when the the Germans locked the factory and they went The prisoners, even though fall on them and kill a they were very realized it was the allies, and they hoped and prayed longer before they This is where my the story very indirectly. Do any of you know What nationality first of all? British, and what is it? You have three guesses. Army, Navy, or Air Force? My father-in-law, Kenneth Clarke, he was in the RF. He was a navigator. He was in Bomber Command and After the war, when he long term after the war, I got engaged and the two and when he heard my mother tell what had happened to her, he was absolutely devastated at the thought that he could have actually killed her, The next picture sometimes is Well, it's sort of. It's the It reads Royal Air Air Bomber's and Air Gunner's Flying Log Book, Flight The next picture shows and you will now see a line highlighted from that &quot;On the 13th of February 1945, 1740 hours, 20:00 to Lancaster,&quot; that On the right-hand side So he really could have At the end of March, the this is when the Germans realizing they were This is when they began They were trying to living witnesses as to what has been going and this is when the notorious My mother wasn't but she was put on But this time, it didn't This time, it consisted open to the skies and filthy, and would have looked My mother was on a 17 days with no food After the war, when similar trains were they were discovered to just have piles of corpses in them. During this 17-day the train was stopped, the doors were open, dead bodies thrown out, and a farmer walked was and he saw her and She always said you can never forget the expression She described herself scarcely living, She weighed 70 pounds and she This farmer brought But there was a Nazi next to her and he had a whip. He raised his whip to beat her if she accepted But he didn't, he and he let her have She maintained that saved Perhaps it did. It eventually arrived in this Mauthausen itself as a the banks of the Danube The concentration camp was up the very steep hill When my mother saw the name she had such a shock because as opposed to when she not knowing what that was. This time, she knew because this appalling place very She said the shock was so great that you always thought possibly provoked the She started to give birth She had to climb off She had to climb onto a who were not strong enough to walk up the steep they had to get onto a cart and it was pulled up by others. She had people people with typhus and she proceeded to There was another Nazi officer the midst of child labor [FOREIGN], which means you Because presumably, she had been and she always maintained that she screaming not only but because she thought this was a very last minute on this. She thought she was about to die. But we both survived experience. I was born, I didn't Incredibly, the Germans allowed a doctor to come to my mother, a doctor who was also a the Germans allowed hear the guns in the distance. The doctor came, he cut and he smacked me to make me cry, to make me breathe. There are three reasons and the first is a On the 28th of April 1945, the Germans had run out of My birthday is the 29th. Presumably had the train again, I wouldn't be here today. The second indirect reason is because Hitler committed The last and the best reason, and I do occasionally speak to American soldiers and I usually cry at this point was the 11th Armor Division liberated the camp my mother said she wouldn't They think I weighed A three-pound baby nowadays is put straight There were no incubators, or perhaps I had My mother just held The Americans came, they had But as I'm sure you know it, it is very dangerous people food because their My mother spoke fluent tried to tell as many people what the Americans They were saying to eat very slowly and very small amounts. But you can imagine, can't you? That if you've been staffed and suddenly you're handed an American chocolate where you tend to scuff a lot. An awful lot of people at that But one hopes that a few of them, might have realized that they The main form of torture in prisoners had to work all daylight hours in a stone quarry. Those are people on They are carrying that they've had to Again, you have to not young, strong, these are prisoners who have been starved and tortured So many of them died or that the prisoners themselves nicknamed them the They are very steep. I've seen them, I've The next picture shows after the prisoners who were pulling down the Nazi emblem, the eagle with the Now, after about three weeks when my mother was the Americans asked her repatriated to Prague, she did. So we will put on an ordinary train this time. We arrive back in Prague, it was at night and it was dark. My mother said that was 3.5 years incarceration in camps. Because up to that moment, she'd never allowed what would probably happened to all the rest of the family. She just never let But arriving at you wonder if there might meet you, and of But nevertheless, she of optimism at the and she thought that if any other member of the there was a chance that the lady who received and a ditchy hat. Because my aunt, Olga, she had come back from Dresden, she was in Dresden for the and she had come back to Prague a few days before we My aunt had even heard on the grapevine that my and that incredibly, My mother asked somebody for some money to we arrived at my aunt's flat. My mother was a very The first words she ''We haven't got any lice.'' Well, we were riddled with The second thing she said was, please could we stay for but we actually stayed That was fantastic because we had our own family support group. It was a tiny family almost the only had been a very large Because my mother was given the end of the war when she was told after death of my father. So three years later, she was able to consider a and this is where my stepfather and for the last time, tell So what is it? British and its RAF, My father, like my uncle, he managed to escape he got to the UK, he joined the RAF. He was too old to be trained as a pilot but because he was made an After the war, he came back to Prague to pick up the most of whom had also and he met my mother whom he had known as a family They decided to get married and they also decided to leave because this was now 1948 and that is when the and they did not want to So we left Czechoslovakia in Although we came legally, I would like to stress, we might have come as refugees, we might've come we might have come as We arrived in the UK and well, I call him my officially adopted He managed to get a job in South Wales and it's all because of Bob's father that but that's another whole story. We can tell you but in a minute. We arrived in Cardiff there in this Textile Factory and that's where we settled. We were actually but Robert's father persuaded daddy to stay in I know I've changed, just a bit. I don't have platts anymore. Well, I do have the platts As you can see, this is We're on our way to giving where my mother Well, all parents shed tears at prize givings. But I think she bit more because unknown to her, I was about to receive and I hadn't spoken a word of English several months before. But again, I'm sure, you know, little children learn other Then when people say to me, well, what did she look like So I don't know if this to some of you because when I'm made talking in English schools, I say to them, &quot;So So when I put up I will still ask the question So where are we? Any ideas? [BACKGROUND] Yes, When the London eye opened, I asked my mother what do that year as a birthday treat. She was then 85, and she said, &quot;Well, everybody's going on this London eye, I wanted to go.&quot; So we did and she This is my mother 10 Not bad for 95? My almost, well, yeah, This is my four I have two sons and they have three now children between them. My mother could never she had survived her wartime and that she ended her life with three great-grandchildren. [APPLAUSE] Thank you. But bear with because I'd like to tell I tell the story, first of all, for reasons of to remember all millions of people who died, who were killed in the Holocaust. The second reason is to Because as many as there are there are dwindling there are that many and they are all unique. They may have common elements, The third reason is us all to learn the lessons, but just think about Cambodia, Bosnia, Rwanda, Darfur. Now what's happening in the The last reason is to try to counteract racism and prejudice. Any form of racism and prejudice. What I would like I'd like you to relax, first of all, for a If you would like to ask me I'll be happy to and I would like to thank [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC].