We all want 2021 to be an awesome year. And it can, through simple actions. I love the topic of habits but let's be There are articles telling us to change our no biggie. I'd love to meditate for 2 hours every day I've only got 24 hours and other tasks to That's why I started implementing microscopic These never took much time away and don't But above all, they've added to the quality Pick one. Pick 13. Or all 21 if you want. You don't need to do all of them all the I often skip some of them when life gets in You can too. 1. Write three things you're grateful for. Hell, start with one if need be. The goal is to always be looking for the positive Yes, that's also for when you've had the who even dares to look at you. I started this habit 2 years ago and it's It's easy and helps reframe the bad days. When I struggle to find a positive aspect for being alive and with a future full of Simple but does the trick in the long run. 2. Refuse once a week. If you accept everything coming your way, Create it by refusing whatever you're not Start by refusing once and see how liberating You can also set higher limits of time for yourself. Someone wants to have a meeting you consider Say you're busy. Three friends want your help? Tell one of them they might need to find someone As a heads-up: if you currently accept everything, change. But, with time, they will accept it. 3. Exercise for a minute when you wake up. One single minute. Nothing more. Even in your busy life, you can find the time I'm not asking for a fully-fledged workout, I usually go for 30 push-ups and a minimum Exercising first thing in the morning gets morning fog you could be experiencing. If you prefer a full workout in the morning, But even if you prefer the evening, 1 minute It helps. 4. Invest in experiences. How often do you spend money on objects? Compare that number to how often you invest My guess is you invest more in objects. And even if you spend the same amount on both, What we remember isn't objects. It's experiences. At best, objects help us remember some experiences. In 2020, I often met friends outside for a We created memories. We bonded. In 2021, I plan on increasing that even more. 5. Organize your home. If you've never done it, try it. Whether you've got space or not, you can In which way, you ask? Well, that'll depend on what you do at home. For me, I have set different spaces for different gaming, and so on). When I play computer games, I transfer my 6. Throw things away. If you've never consciously made an effort it could be useful", then try it today. It's liberating. You might get a taste for it and keep doing Or you might want to throw away 465 items Game. Either way, there's a lot of rubbish you There's also a lot of stuff you're hanging My 11-year collection of the monthly free to stay. Neither did my broken nunchuck. 7. Manage your money. This is not about investing -- although that's This is about knowing where your money is Most parents have this somewhat figured out, ignore this. It doesn't take long. You can set a free app like Money Manager, incomes and expenses. When that's done, just enter in a few taps Soon enough, you'll know where you spend Simple and it doesn't take more than a few 8. Stand up every hour. This is, without fault, the hardest one of It's simple and I know it's good for the Notifications don't work and even if I remember to break my flow. On paper, this is among the "easier" tiny Yet, this one's so hard to remember because We've stayed sitting for hours on end for Change that. 9. Follow this simple proverb. I live my life by "Quand on a pas de tete, This means "When we have no head, we have It might seem weird but I use it as a way Most often, this is about forgetting something Don't get angry when you can't find your Remind yourself you've got to have legs Accept that what's done is done. All you can do is go forward. 10. Ask open-ended questions. Apart from a few topics, I'm not a great I've gotten better with a simple trick. I ask open-ended questions as often as possible. I become a child asking "Why, Where, When, such questions. Sometimes the situation doesn't fit for Ask open questions whenever you can and you'll Why? Because you help keep the conversation going 11. Turn off notifications. Start for an hour a day. If you can last longer, do it. This isn't as hard as you think it is. The only reason you're not doing it is that That's one you need to change. It takes about 25 minutes to regain your focus, a second. Erase those for an hour and you'll be able I've gotten addicted to it so my notifications 12. Prepare your clothes. Simple but efficient. Why would you waste some of your precious use whatever's left the previous night? It doesn't create havoc in your daily life, Awesome, right? 13. Watch the news less. Chances are you already started doing it in If not, start today. No matter how curious you are, you don't alone 10. If you can, only watch or read the news once, You probably don't need more. I've reduced my news-intake to once every I'm always on track with what happens in I even have more time for myself. 14. Drink more water. Another simple tiny habit. It's great for your health and you can get Now I wonder, why aren't you already drinking Come on, stop watching for a second and do 15. Discover one new thing a month. My favorite of them all. Drop all expectations and just discover something It could be diving into a topic you've been You could read about the battle of Marignano Either way, discovering something new is exciting. It's also useful because it keeps us curious over time. Do it the way you want. Spend 10 hours on it one Saturday or a few What matters is for you to discover something 16. Make your bed. Start with a win by making your bed, as Admiral Another simple habit to add. It doesn't "change your life right away" All we want here is to slightly improve it Get up, make your bed, and then follow with 17. Spend a minute a day with yourself. Just one, come on. I know you can do it. No phone. No computer. No tablet, nor friends or pets around. Just you and your thoughts. Do this while on the toilet if need be. Doing this for a minute won't change your aware of what you think, instead of being Start with a minute and increase this as you Think about what you think. Talk to yourself. Just accept whatever your thoughts are and Self-awareness is way underrated in our world. 18. Ask yourself whether what you're doing is There's a lot of actions we do that don't To be more precise, many aren't worth our We finish them and move on until we think time we wasted on it. If you had two months left to live, would the Queen's Gambit? Or would you be writing that masterpiece you've 19. If a task takes 2 minutes, do it right away. There's a lot of advice about doing whatever I disagree. 5 minutes is still quite some time and can Instead, I've set 2 minutes as the higher If it takes 5 minutes, write it on paper and Then do it within the next hour and a half. It gives you some leeway yet prevents you 20. Take care of your posture. A bad posture has a lot of repercussions in I've had a hunched back for so long I struggle I forget it all the time but whenever it comes did when I started writing this part). A bit of effort goes a long way. If you still have a good posture, treasure If you have a bad posture, hang reminders For a while, my phone's background picture 21. Read for 15 minutes a day. I know this one takes a bit longer but it's As Jim Kwik says all the time, "Leaders It's not just leaders, it's everybody Whether you read fiction or non-fiction doesn't Both have their advantages. What matters is that you read. And if you can't find 15 minutes each, then It's only a start, but it's more than After all, a survey in 2019 said that 70% the last five years. There are big, hard-to-implement, habits. And there are small, easy-to-implement, habits. I love both but it's clear the latter ones busy life. All things considered, they are also life-changing The only difficulty with those is how hidden It's easy to drop them because you don't Keep at them for long enough and your life 2021 can be that year. You can start changing your life. You can be happier with tiny changes. Hey, you can even start today. Go ahead. Stand up and go throw something away to start It's only the beginning.