- [Mr. Beast] I put 100 people and whoever leaves the But if you touch the I don't care how long this takes. Whichever one of you leaves (cheering) - $500,000. - Oh, I cleared my schedule. I am literally good for next three weeks. - However long it takes. Weeks. - How long are you staying in this circle? - Well, I took off work until January 1st. You took off work for the next six months? - There's literally a hundred people. This place is packed. They brought grass down. The possibilities are endless. - There's only one smart thing to do. To begin the hibernating process. - This guy right here is already He might be our first loser. - To be honest, there's I'm not gonna win. What's the point? - Hey everybody, this guy All right, let's see it. (cheering) He's overplaying this so much. Just step out. Oh Even though you got out first, Just wait here. Congratulations. You just want a brand new - Who would've thought - Someone just left. Honestly, I knew he'd be first. I smelled the weakness from the beginning. - Massive morale boost. If everyone's weak like that they're gonna be gone in no time. - Time to update the board. 99 remain. Good luck. Knowing they can win a random prize. Definitely wore a few people down and after a couple of hours, things got a little emotional. - This is gonna change my life. Tomorrow I'm gonna take a Thank you so much. I was not expecting that. She's got me about to cry. I can't wait to see how the half a million dollars at - I'm about to raise the stakes. - I hope you guys like filet mignon. Cause we got you all a steak. (cheering) - They sent the filet mignons. - Yeah, just casually eating - If they're gonna be I could be here like for - It's now nighttime of the first day and 94 people are still in this. Little do they know I have something in store Now it's time I introduced the we're gonna shrink the We're gonna bring the new line to... Is that good? I'll do a little bit more. All right, I'll go ahead - Are you going to do all that? - Nope. When the camera cuts, After seeing the new circle, - Whoa, whoa, Jimmy, Jimmy. So you're gonna play him and if you lose you'll get out? - Are you kidding me? - Rock, paper, scissors, chute. Imagine losing $500,000 on a single game of rock paper scissors. - That was the dumbest thing ever. There was no upside. - They just wouldn't stop It seems like two days in a circle is most people's limits. There's someone sleeping on a cereal box. It's getting serious. - It's nighttime of the second day and Karl decided to start some trouble. - One second. - And I think I just watched one of the guys reach over the line. - No way - No. - That's half a million dollars worth of fruit snacks right there. - I don't know who threw the gummies. - Not only have the in that circle, but we've spent three days living here. I've been sleeping in that RV. - Morale's getting a little low. - Hope breakfast is than oatmeal. - Boredom's starting set it. - I don't like oatmeal. It taste like wet cardboard. So this is pretty rough, to be honest. The circle's gonna shrink again. Not looking forward to that. - It's the start of the third day. So we gotta shrink this circle again. - Boo - Wait, wait, wait. Are you sure- I'm not letting Chandler do this again. Chandler made this line so long. This is kind of boring. Now the circle is fully painted in. As you can see, we took a lot And while we were painting, - Throughout this challenge we realized that if we they'll occasionally mess which is exactly why we put if we could get some people out. - I'm crossing my fingers. I'm crossing my fingers. - You stepped on it right there. The soccer goal worked. It's the start day of number four. So we gotta shrink the circle again. Chandler, I'm gonna trust you. This is like three more feet. I'll see you when it's done. And there you go. It literally took two - Whoa - That's a lie - It's like magic. - You're lying. - It's been a few hours - I know what I need to do. I wanted to give you (alarm clock noise) It's just a 10 hour loop. - Does that make anyone wanna get out? - This is music to my ears because I press snooze Every time. - Do you think anybody's - I don't think anybody's - So you were saying you would get out for a brand new iPhone? - Yeah. I need a new phone badly. - Here you go. - Ride of into the sunset. - Now that she's out, we're gonna keep playing that. They didn't like the phone alarm sound. So now I'm playing man (cheering) - He got it. - Hey, Karl. - Karl, we just want to talk. Come here Karl. - Get him. - Get out Karl. I got you. - Day five. - It's just a fever dream now. Everyone wakes up screaming. (laughs) - I not going to lie it's slowing down a little bit, but I'm gonna try to keep going. - All right, everybody. You know what time it is? We gotta shrink this circle. Right there. Jump cut. Boom. - I can move now. - The circle keeps getting smaller and people are dropping like flies. - Halfway done. - Grass ball has taken over It's all I can think about - Grass ball. - I'm losing brain cells by the second. I just lost 10. - We started day six like Since they want me to take a lot, I'm just gonna take a little bit. And then I made a mistake by putting Nolan in charge. - If anybody's butt even You're out. - It's been five seconds and - New rule. No making fun of Nolan. - The standing challenge Sorry bro. - Simon says Hit yourself in the face. (laughs) Simon says, do a push up. I can't do a push up without So I'm not doing it. All right, just don't do it then. Your knee touch? Unfortunately your knee Here's your thousand dollars. (cheering) I have so much power. Is this what Jimmy feels like? - Do you all know why Because you survived an entire week inside of this circle. To celebrate an entire I decided to give them a challenge with the Tesla as a prize. Who wants a Tesla? (cheering) The boys are rolling out a special tarp. Starting now all of you can If you can ride this and touch the Tesla without touching the ground, I'll let you keep it. You're not doing it? - No, that's scary bro. - Okay. Oh, he's getting run. All right everybody's Is this it? Is this it? - No. - They're literally engineering a team to win this man a Tesla - All right. - He's on the tire. They're Oh. Did he step out? Okay. Everyone time out. We gotta review footage. We'll be right back. Unfortunately, Corey Get rid of this thousand dollars. Give him five thousand dollars. Thank you for putting Then finally, with the help of Jack did the unthinkable. He got it. Get on in. Let me see what you think. - Oh my God. - Look at him. - Going to throw up in my own car. - We had to help. Guy just won a Tesla. It's unbelievable. - Before I brought the Now we're down to 32. The numbers are dwindling. It's day eight and we needed So we split the contestants into quadrants. Today is day number eight. And so far no one's gotten out. So I made this mystery wheel because we need to get some - Hey, I'll spin it. - Spin it hard though. Not no like half spin. That's exactly what I was looking for. (cheering) - Congratulations. You just - He just spun and won three - David. Go for it. All right. Let's see it. He found an infinite money glitch. What the hell. How does he keep doing it? - Jimmy came out saying And David is rocking three briefcases. - I just don't think that - It's day nine and we lost another person during the evening. But then something happened - Oh my God. - Will you marry me? - Yes. - Did you guys see that one coming? - No. - Let's give it up for Sounds like we need to get to go towards the wedding. - I've been in the circle but I could not be happier. - Now. It's time for a We are too lazy to write the other half, but you should still subscribe. Are you guys subscribed? That's exactly why they're here. Hit the button. You can be in a video. Woo. And now it's time to shrink All right, instead of shrinking the circle we're expanding the line. But now it's time we introduced the difficult part. Earlier, I asked them to pair up and now we're gonna be duct for the day. For the rest of the day you - Day nine and guess what they did to us? - Let's go. - Forever together. - Forever, forever - Together forever. - Ha, ha - Oh boy. - How are you feeling? - I don't really like So it's gonna be kind of hard. - Well, this is awkward - Earlier when I was this happened and I had the replay right here and as you can see, he Neil, man. First he loses a Lamborghini and how half a million dollars. Neil, buddy. I pulled up the footage. It's on the line. I'm sorry, Neil. - All right, I guess I'll take my walk. - Here's two thousand dollars. - Oh, it's still bitter - What's wrong? - We've been final two this And I was hoping I'd be but that's the game. - I've never seen Akira He looks like a man that's gonna win this - Mark my words that man's I promise you. Get it, Akira. - Boys, put the balance Bring it on over. Now this is $10,000 in cash. I'm gonna set it right here. Any takers? 10 grand on the line. - Don't think about how And if you fall, it's all for nothing. Like that. - Let's see if David's luck continues. I assume by your stance, - I do, yes. - I can tell you look very calm. All right, that's all you. - It's wiggling. - It's waggling. - Why did we let a gymnast in this circle? - He's counterbalancing. - Oh, oh. (cheering) - David has so far won $19,000 If anyone else, not named Here's another $10,000. And he's off there. - Here's the bin. - That's a good pivot. That's a good pivot. - How is everyone just robbing - I told you it was easy. (cheering) - Boys, boys, the balance beam's gotta go. That did not go like I thought it would. Here's what the circle with 100 people inside. And this is what it looks with only 25 people. By day 10 we decided to just And at this point, our had a really strange request. You wanted your magic ball. - I want to ask it if I or if I should stick it through. Magic eight ball, should I Oh, boy. - Indications say yes. Oh, it literally says yes. (cheering) Congratulations. You just on top of the 19 grand you won. Anyone else want to shake - No, we're good. - He's literally walking away - I'm just glad I could be a part of this. - I'm glad you had fun. Bring out the thing. - The things coming. - Majority of the Some of the balloons have punishments. Punishments included or having to wear a giant shoe. - Chandler, which one should I go for? - That one. - You have to do a hundred - Yo, my bad. - Other contestants got prizes. You just want a go-kart. You actually won $2,000. Here you go. Some contestants had a little He won a blanket - I can finally sleep. - You're not worst than Classy. - Yay. You can have goldfish whenever you want. Who actually likes goldfish? - I do. - You gotta tape your feet You have to sit on the tire And now we are done with the balloon wall. That was fun. - Whoa. - Remember if you touch - Sir, yes sir. We're going through the night, baby. We're gonna get this. Wee. - Another long night in the circle. Let's see how they're holding up. - Welcome to my crib. I hate it here. - It's 6:00 AM. You can take your shoe off, but I also have to take - No. I'm sorry. - This is getting ridiculous. Not even the tire swing We need to make things harder. There is 20 of you left and I have 20 little circles of grass. - That's not that much room. - Exactly. And all the remaining to get on one of them. Boys, fill in the circle. Everyone that gets out I'll give you $10,000 in cash. If not for the next 24 to two grand. We're not doing anything We're not really doing much tomorrow. It's just standing. I'd take a deal now while you can. - How many minutes do we have? - Like three or four? Have fun. - What an insane ultimatum. - Nope. - I ain't leaving. - Are people gonna step out for 10 or are people gonna fight We'll see. This offer's going to go You've been here so long. - That's rough. That's rough. - He's thinking about it. - Will you throw in a PlayStation 5? - For you, I'll throw it in PlayStation 5. (cheering) - William just stepped out. - William just stepped out. One step closer guys. - We just lost will to the $10,000 offer. - The smile on his face is so big. - These people are tougher than I thought. I wonder if any of them regret - I just don't know if I could - I should've have took 10,000. Not the smartest decision, but I'm not the smartest man. - I wouldn't have left if That's a fact - The only thing we can - Akira, you've been standing What's happening? - Just can't take it anymore. I gotta think about my future, so. Goodluck, everybody. - I've been standing for 18 hours. I'm not having fun anymore. - Mentally I'm still in it. Physically I'm still in it. - I just threw a whole bunch I just slapped myself like 20 times. I am not going anywhere. - All right, you guys see the laptop. You see that blade of grass right there. - I see that one. - You got out literally by - Oh, he's falling. (laughs) - It has officially been How are you liking your little island now? - It's pretty small. - It's time to shrink them even more. - Great. - We got outlines of your feet. As you can see, it's barely Everyone, you have 10 We can just throw these away. We're trying to get them Hopefully, this offer and we can move on. - If anyone gets out in I'll give you $10,001. You get an extra dollar Oh, he's already out. Okay. We got one.. Oh, we got two takers. I almost drop tank. Oh we got another one. Let's go. (cheering) Foy, Foy, Foy, Foy. - Come on, Foy. (cheering) - We are now in the top 10 people. You would think she just won the half a million dollars. Look around. There are less than 10 people opposing you and half a million dollars. Goodluck. One of you is winning this. - I was dead tired before this, but I'm 10 now. I could do this for another two days. - Closing in on the end of day 12. And it's time for me to show you guys why this question mark is here. - Why is this question mark here? - You're about to find out. It is time I introduced the This video is actually two parts and this was just part number one. - No way. - We're gonna be playing tag to see which one of you actually wins the half million dollar. Contestants, make sure you get because tomorrow will be of your lives. If you haven't already So in the next video, of these people wins this I'll see you then. (Cheering) Mr. Beast 6,000, oh