I'm standing in front of the headquarters That's more than half Last time I covered the shady and you guys asked for one thing. Blackrock. So here we are. Blackrock is the subject there is a robot that controls more wealth really They have stock in 95% of fortune And they've been hired by governments to help manage financial crises That means that pretty much any time working, buying stuff, you're interacting with Blackrock. But that $10.6 trillion Don't worry. We'll come back to that. And they claim they're just passive While I love a good conspiracy on the fruit of the loom logo. How much of a conspiracy is this really? I wanted to get to the truth behind asset managers, State Street Are they actively controlling the world or are they passive investors just riding Stay with me. We'll get to the spooky stuff soon. But first, let's talk through some finance What an asset manager actually funds, their favorite loophole, passivity The not at all terrifying Blackrock is an asset manager, is taking a customer's money Their existence relies This waterbed's only $119! more exciting. The index fund. It was pioneered and it offers investors So instead of betting a lot you bet a little bit on every company Basically just the whole market itself. the index at least steers a steady course. It's like instead of betting on a single horse, And index funds are a form of mutual fund. The more general way people to make big investments. But someone needs to be the one to pooll And that's an asset manager, i.e. Index funds and ETFs are their They're popular because they're lower and are cheaper for asset managers have to pay a guy to place bets all day, which studies show just ignore the folly of short It's absolutely a loser's game. So if the market is up 7% today, Instead of constantly buying and selling Blackrock and these big asset managers and just hold onto those shares This is called passive investing, a title a lot of legal leeway They own so much to sell out of any When you think about passive- as long as they're in the index. Most of the money asset managers Those are big pension funds. Insurance companies, non-profits But while of these big institutions, most of it Public and private pension plans, 401 K owners, college tuition This is your money, nor do you get a say in the companies while they want good returns contrary Street type investors, They make their profits from the fees not from the returns on the money I spoke with Benjamin Braun, at the London School of Economics. He's written a bunch of studies on asset The fees you earn when the market value of the assets you maximize your assets under management and by getting the clients you more money. When you have $10 and eventually that somewhere becomes Universal ownership in the entire universe, the big three asset managers Blackrock but still relatively small stake Blackrock is a 3 to 10% shareholder This may not sound like a lot, that selling all of it at once kind of locking them into the whole 5% in any individual company when shareholder ship is dispersed, the single largest shareholder a lot of academic studies, 5% there's almost no difference between, and even bunch of other asset managers So then you can start and wonder, okay, 25% of the shares in any individual company, then you're definitely Let's zoom in on Amazon. The big three owns Jeff Bezos only owns 9%. in theory, maximizing profits in the long term And that is not how they operate The amount of stock you have determines Blackrock is almost if they're feeling broke. So that is a lot of votes. And let's not forget, it's It's your dad's pension fund and It sounds crazy, but you sign away your voting rights And then when the pension fund manager funds under an asset manager's control, all those votes to the asset manager, And how do they actually use those votes? A 2017 study found that asset managers almost always voted with what And why are they always voting Back in the 80s, company managers things like corporate jets, fancy offices, And this made the investors sad So they started offering company managers, and benefits, stock options. Executives' total pay was now forever They can push managers, corporate managers to act more in the interest of, corporate profits This funnels money back to investors, and away from any hope of making companies including employees in the profits Back in the day, like my grandparents day, and the idea was that every shareholder mergers and acquisitions, executive Sort of like democracy Government is the people's business, and every man, woman and child with the first penny of tax paid. In 1945, 94% of stocks were owned by households. But that's not really how it works Today, households and about half of that belongs Okay. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Today, the top 1% own 50% of corporate equity and mutual fund shares, Did you think this yellow part The tiny green part on the bottom You often hear this argument that, is good for everyone because especially are overwhelmingly invested in corporate But that's simply not true. the bottom 50% virtually owns the vast majority of shares are held And within that, even, shareholdings and while the strategies vote for them- affect everyone, even a little bit, and frequently hurt at all. Take the example of worker pay. Blackrock and other asset managers if you're a corporation, you can increase and you can always, in a short term increase returns to shareholders So this kind of Uber monopolization people, consumers And this is where it gets interesting. There's evidence is in part responsible for why everything they have significant stakes in Nike, If one outperforms the other it's the same from BlackRock's and sometimes it can even lose investors If companies were to start lowering prices That's the universal but it's also an anti-competitive logic The fact that all five airlines, for example, in the US, creates a danger and a risk that, will not engage in competition if they each had different shareholders each shareholder and would hope to outperform the market It's sort of like a neo-monopoly and buy each other anymore, because they all send profits And their large stakes In basically every company affords them From just 2014 to 2015 Blackrock performed over with the companies Blackrock closed doors can go further than votes and they typically give management a year They also have a lot of friends There's a sort of revolving door and the international bodies Things like the US Treasury, the central banks of Canada, as well as the International Monetary Fund Since 2004, Blackrock has hired former government officials, regulators The intersection of politics and business Larry Fink himself is on the board selected as Hillary Clinton's And in 2008, Traders say this is the craziest Veteran traders say they've In the aftermath, the government created Council to oversee entities like Blackrock but aren't banks. The FSOC pointed to Blackrock that its failure and tried to put additional oversight But Blackrock doubled their political a super targeted ad campaign to dodge the oversight that other large And let's come back to that loophole the people who decide if they're passive enough to continue is Blackrock themselves. Basically, Blackrock and other asset Self-certify that they've been compliant That's like being allowed to write whatever you want on your taxes Except if you also had $10 trillion, unless you're watching this hey, bestie- I'm going to safely The part that really blows my mind already has their eggs in basically seemingly everyone, The biggest investors in Blackrock And the biggest investors in Vanguard And the biggest investors Blackrock and Vanguard. Asset managers are the shareholders all financial firms listed firms but private equity So the financial sector effectively owns The biggest companies creating this loop that sucks money in They play all sides of the game because when you play against yourself. So going back to our original questions: does Blackrock own everything? No. but do they control everything? Kinda. They profit off of every bit of your life while controlling just the minimum amount they need to make sure they can continue and they get paid by teachers And they get away with this by constantly exchanging money for power It's worth They don't own everything. They own shares in everything, which So while they're not necessarily the ones making all the nitty it is their influence, and this that continues to make their pie bigger It's the ultimate endgame of the Investor Remember the part for reporting their own The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and make it large chunks of banks The asset And they are lobbying against this so regulating them And this is a solution We no longer have the old system We have something more like a shareholder with the most power over where our money to make that stuff worse But Blackrock didn't create this system, they just used it to their advantage. And I think we deserve a better one have a say in where it goes. Thanks for watching the Class Room-where Send us your next favorite conspiracy.