Good morning, everyone! I'm Massimo Spigaroli. I'm chef and owner, together with my brother Luciano, of Antica Corte Pallavicina. We're in this place, this let's say, ancient place, built by Pallavicino marquises in 1320, where in the cellars, even nowadays, it's our culatello, mostly a product that is bound to our family. My grand-grandfather until 1882 used to produce this cold cut for maestro Giuseppe Verdi and today I'm here. I'm lucky, I've been chosen to launch this important contest: I feel very honored. Since the theme for Acqua di Chef I'm going to tell you respect I have to my whole family, my whole story, all of my tradition, I have to been seeing from the very beginning, that maybe made Let's start by making carrots, celery and onion, Let's take the meat, it's our bovine's meat. We usually use a mixed beef Today we used a beef shoulder. We're grinding it finely and, at the end, we're adding a sausage, an important sausage then we start to make this ragu. Let's take a pot, adding some oil to roast our vegetables. roasted and cooked, we add the meat. We roast it, letting it dry well, releasing all of these juices. It's not about losing them, it's just about losing the volatile part, let's say, the watery part, so that all of Then, we're adding an important wine, Verdi. Why Carlo Verdi? Because maestro Giuseppe Verdi used He bought the vine plants from the Bordeaux area, implanting this vine in the company owned by his father, called Carlo Verdi. Today we are renting it, so we still have this wine. allowing it to evaporate, adding the tomato and mixing. A bit of water, so we're giving it the liquid part. A bit of salt, and we just let it cook. It's going to cook slowly, almost on the In the meantime, recipe is quite simple: 10 eggs every kilogram of flour, and then we're adding some salt, incorporating and kneading it well, making sure it's well incorporated, We roll out the pasta very thin and We're blanching it for no more than a minute, half a minute. We take the pasta out when the water starts boiling again. We do so to prevent it from sticking and to let the pasta lose a bit of that glutinous very carefully, moving it insude water and ice, just Then we'll let it drain. We're still missing the bechamel, that is the French name that was used 'besciamella', but bechamel, a very simple We start with the butter, melting it. We add the flour, it's called roux, still using the French term. Meanwhile, So to add the roux we'll see how it thickens. We're adding some nutmeg, salt It needs to cook, otherwise we'll have and this becomes a big flaw. Lasagna is an important dish. one of the most difficult many different recipes that converge all in one dish. ready to build the lasagna. a deep tray, butter it and start creating our layers. Let's add the bechamel, the ragu, a bit of Parmesan and then we're adding the pasta. We will be doing this for four times. Pasta must be very thin, there should be love in the way we're adding this ragu, bechamel, because, in the end everyone should meaning not only the garnish: bechamel and ragu in the middle, but also on the sides, because, has dough only on its borders mozzarella. Lasagna is lasagna and must be a 100% equal. After proceeding with these layers, In the end we look at it with satisfaction. We're tucking in all of the angles of pasta that might later dry up, again with our bechamel, with our ragu and our Parmigiano. We're moving it to the oven It needs time, because otherwise it would burn on the top It needs cooking, since we just blanched should be absorbed by the pasta and eventually, slowly, in 40 or more minutes, depending on the size. Then let it rest again even 10, covered with a cloth. This is the sublimation of our Italy. This is my lasagna. I couldn't have made it otherwise. If someone makes an old dish, they might think he is old, a form of gratitude to my territory, and to my family. Now, anyway, it's time for lasagna is lasagna; you can do as you please, how you please, The contamination of a dish means that this dish holds a future! Best wishes to everyone!