Vanessa: fluent English speaker. Have you ever said that? I'm Vanessa from SpeakEnglishWithVanessa.com and but I do have some good news. I have searched teachers so that they can also help to a better English speaker? How can I speak would like to present to you 15 wonderful, who will be helping to answer the question, All of these teachers tips are tried and true. I used Lucy's tip when I was learning French scholarship into my college or university. So I I have a free PDF worksheet for you with all to their channel so that you can continue to in the description to download that free PDF English and go out into the real world and use These are in no specific order except that my how to be a better English speaker from some of Bob: with Bob the Canadian. The technique I think you is called narrate your life. This is when you as you do it. Here's an example. I am sitting on am enjoying the day. When you say everything improves your spoken English, but it helps you to you're going to want to do this when you're in a So start to narrate your life. If you want an the present, and the future. Yesterday I sat this park bench. Tomorrow I'm going to sit life. Start to talk about what you're doing out Tiffani: English with Tiffani, and my English-speaking Embrace your mistakes. As an English learner, instead of feeling frustrated, instead of feeling I want you to realize when you embrace your They are showing you the things you need to tweak, the things you need to hone in on, the things English speaker you can be. So instead of being Lucy: of Vanessa's students. I'm Lucy and I run the constantly reaching for vocabulary, you don't from speaking fluently. My tip for improving your do with vocabulary. I know that it works because and I speak Spanish fluently. I kept a simple life and I started to narrate in my head what was I was walking, when I was traveling to work, I narrated in my head in the language I was a word that I didn't know how to say, I wrote it before I went to bed, I made a commitment and I reviewed them again the next morning. were related to my daily life. They how quickly this strategy made an impact and never miss an opportunity. Make that Dori: Brittany: Dori: Brittany: three tips from my child instead. Children copy TV series. This is your mom now. Copy everything English words actually come out of your mouth? All animals. He makes his toys talk to each other. Dori: Brittany: and that's okay. All of these mistakes will Dori: Emma: a speaking community for women. The best way but if the thought of actually speaking to makes you feel a little ill or anxious, I would space or the people who will help you to feel your speaking skills, you simply need to gain different conversations with different The best thing that you can do to improve your words or to study more. It's to put yourself into thousands of English words that you already If you don't have a supportive space where you can Hadar: My name is Hadar from Accent's Way English for inviting me to share my advice with your So my piece of advice for you is to learn and about your English. Let me explain. We're used just improve your clarity and your accent, which in your pronunciation can help you improve your phrases and reductions, it makes it easier for Repeating common words and new vocabulary and those structures and words subconsciously, making you're improving grammar and vocabulary not to mention the confidence boost that words and sounds that you're not sure I believe that learning pronunciation can level This is why I'm passionate about it and I hope Veronika: Veronika's Language Diaries, and today I want The words you use when you talk to yourself learning journey. If you constantly think, &quot;I'm beginner stage,&quot; then you're setting up negative self-talk can trap you in a cycle your English goals. Every time you tell yourself, actually reinforcing that belief and you make What if instead of focusing on what you can achieve. For instance, instead of saying, your language to, &quot;I'm improving every day When you start telling yourself, your actions will start aligning with that belief. more open to making mistakes and learning and I know firsthand how daunting I used to have the same doubts and the same fears, I spoke to myself. I believed in my ability to that happen. I've been where you are and I've made Anne-Marie: English. And first, a big thank you to Vanessa for or too nervous to speak, here's my favorite yourself the gift of clarity. Clarity to know what plus the certainty to know that you can make time and time again for myself, and it's perfect for job interviews and gaining confidence Choose a specific topic or question like starter. Next, record yourself speaking naturally, evaluate your pronunciation, clarity, vocabulary, and what you want to improve. Finally, record repeat this process, you'll notice your speaking Bez: Laura: Bez: tip for improving your English speaking is this. Laura: let perfect be the enemy of good. We teach on being perfect and making perfect sentences Bez: the same words and sentence Laura: like a native speaker, that they don't challenge Bez: skills get stuck. You will never improve if you Laura: either on your own or with a teacher, take risks. Bez: is not the time to be perfect. It's Laura: like training at the gym. You are not supposed sweaty and red-faced. Learn to appreciate your Greg: Hello, I'm Greg from the English with Greg pronunciation and grammar. And one piece of advice speaking English, don't focus on everything Don't feel embarrassed or blocked just because you focus on the grammar and vocabulary that you else. If you are at work and you need to say that the word warehouse, you can say it's in the big And when you do this, you soon realize topics with quite basic English. So change I don't know a word.&quot; Instead, think, &quot;Wow with English.&quot; And the best thing is that when you do It fills you with confidence and isn't that Anna: English Like a Native, and my speaking tip for you get it and of the level of the person you're majority of my playing time has been practicing but mostly lower than my level. I've had a player because I've practiced for thousands When you speak, it doesn't matter if you have to practice the recall practice, practice. It's all valuable Luke Thompson: Podcast and my advice for improving your speaking loads of listening in English because if you to speak this language if you don't know what it helps you to get a natural sense of the speech the intonation, the sentence stress, the connected this language is spoken by people when they're Also, it exposes you to lots of listening a lot really feeds your speaking. inspires it and allows you to find something that you so that when you open your mouth, hopefully because you've inputted so much. That's the basic listen to podcasts for learners of English. Hannah: I'm Hannah from English Fluency Journey, and first for giving me this amazing opportunity to share my to improve your English-speaking skills is to find to improve your speaking skills is by speaking. So be more specific, I'd say that shadowing is one of skills on your own and for free. Those of you who Shadowing is like playing a fun game of copycat to someone speaking English, it can be from a then you try to repeat what they say as accurately you're also matching their speed, intonation it helps you improve your pronunciation, and even grammar, all while getting you used it's a great way to feel more confident speaking And remember, no matter what method you the key to success is consistency. of your routine and everyday life. If you manage your improvement and success are inevitable. Brent: my name is Brent from American English allowing me to share my tip on how to speak I have been lucky enough to travel to and Turkey. I've spoken to many non-native English &quot;I'm sorry for my English.&quot; My tip to you is be to a native English speaker, chances are they If it wasn't for you, the two of you wouldn't be about your accent. We all have accents. If I went my tip to you is be confident when you speak Patti: here from English with Patricia. Vanessa, thank about speaking. I know how it feels because I am was in England, I learned that I had to listen I heard someone saying that they were eating So I came home, grabbed myself a yogurt, I I started to copy people and really hear my own around me said, &quot;See you later.&quot; And I always &quot;Hold on a minute. Everyone's saying see you do lots and lots of copying and Wes: my name is Wes from Interactive English. And when often hear people tell me that, &quot;Well, whenever I get stuck and I lose my train of thought.&quot; So if would be to use a speaking framework. And there framework. It stands for point, reason, example, I think that you should try to use this help you structure your speech and you'll be able if you are in a meeting at work you'll be able to do so easily and quickly. And this speaking framework. Point, Ariannita la Gringa: I'm Ariannita la Gringa and I'm a native English improve your English-speaking skills. Well, from the fastest way for me to improve practicing with native speakers. So I started out with them everywhere. After a couple of improved. So you can apply the same method to well, I feel like speaking English won't feel like You'll naturally pick up common feel more comfortable to speak around them my friends who made English-speaking friends because they can practice real-life English etc. So for me, this is one of the best ways to way. But remember, this is only one way to improve other teacher's tips too to help you improve your Ethan: I'm Ethan from RealLife English and my tip professional athlete goes out for game day, it's done tons and tons of practice beforehand, so perform. However, most language learners will just things will go well based on what they've like we play using scripts. You can write a not had many interactions speaking English, then of yourself because this is something you're So in your script, you're going to write out you're preparing yourself for, and then comes your own at first, and then you can actually ways you can improve it. And then finally, it's it in an English conversation. And I promise all of this practice, you're going to when you actually have that conversation. All Vanessa: to those wonderful English teachers for your great it's my turn. How can you speak better English? is that I highly recommend that you speak in minutes per week. When you set up this appointment motivation to speak better English because you have a deadline and you need to do it. So as We wait till the last minute, we put things too hard or we feel worried about. So when English on Mondays at 8:00 PM well that you are going to start preparing, you're going about your conversation. You might even use recording, listening to English. You will a deadline coming up. You're going to be And when you do it every week, you're going to And after a few months, you'll be amazed confidence grow. If you're not speaking with I highly recommend starting that now. Well, and all of these wonderful English teachers. Yes, YouTube. Most of them I reached out to. Some of there's someone you love who is not in this video, just not available. Well, don't forget to download It will include every single teacher's so that you can continue learning English click on the link in the description to A big thank you to all of the teachers and I will see you again next Friday for a new do you want more? I recommend watching this video specifically about if you are a guest at my house would we have together? Well, you can practice