"Doom isn't 3D" It's likely you heard that phrase before. And if you are a Classic Doom enthusiast - you Yet, the amount of Ds in Doom is debatable. What's the deal? Well, the engine has specific limitations, In this video, we'll go through all of them. Let's get started. No rooms above rooms This limitation is infamous, but it's only To see it better, let's take a look at how Every level consists of so called "sectors". Each sector has a 2D shape as its foundation how high is the ceiling. That really is all the information we have, - like this staircase followed by a hallway. Floor and ceiling levels can also be dynamic are basically moving ceilings. Or elevators - which are moving floors. This design is very simple and complex at Complex enough to make some stunning environments These sector-based levels are easy enough but you have to accept certain limitations: All sectors must have completely flat and Every wall must be straight and perfectly vertical. And finally - level geometry doesn't exist That's impossible with this simple sector Despite all those constraints, maps can look But they will always be blocky and have these Furthermore, many old maps seem to be very flat. So flat, that you might think that Doom doesn't have a Z axis Of course, this is not true. Every room in every level is 3D. Positions and boundaries of objects in game And there are plenty of examples when the Shall we? Monsters may not fit into rooms because of Some enemies can fly and change their altitude. Also, they will fit into windows when at appropriate Projectiles can fly as well, and not necessarily Players can close gaps between separated platforms, You can even jump with the help of an arch-vile By now it should be quite clear - there is But why is it still debatable? Well. There are few notable examples where poor First, the case of "infinitely tall monsters". Frankly, this is one of the most jarring limitations. In Vanilla Doom you cannot move directly above It's like there is an invisible barrier. Look - even tiny Lost Soul struggles to reach This is done to simplify collision physics The engine doesn't have to deal with stacks Modern source ports can handle it without Interestingly, projectiles can pass above It's likely because of a well-known fact They can't run around and make sick platforming. No, they are quite primitive - just follow And not even necessarily straight - guided Revenant Ok, back to limitations. Another instance of Z-axis not mattering - explosions. Blast damage is applied based on the distance is not taken into account. So the blastwave appears to be infinitely Again, this simplification was made deliberately of explosions don't matter. Optimisation intent is quite obvious. You see, having vertical distance is very and the only reason not to do it We have covered quite a few examples now. There is one last thing, which seems like Fixed camera angle Not being able to look up and down is the back to the good old Doom. Why is that? Does the Doomguy have severe neck pains? To understand the reason, we have to know The most important aspect here - is that the vertical lines of pixels. To better explain it, let's modify this on top of each other. Here's this texture in game. Notice how no matter from what angle you are of each other, just like in the source picture. When the game needs to render this part of scales it appropriately and puts it on the That works well, but as soon as we turn the because of the perspective. You no longer can use this column technique. Look at these pillars - they are drawn perfectly And when you look up - they converge in the distance Of course, I'm showing all this in a more You can rotate the camera freely and the scene But let's jump into Crispy Doom - it uses to look more authentic. It also has a vertical aim - and it seems But look closer - our test pixels don't In fact, there is no perspective at all and These pillars now stay vertical at all costs. Crispy Doom even limits the angle of vertical Oh no! What have I done? The scene becomes ridiculously distorted. Yeah.. Let's not do that ever again. So there you go - old rendering method was It has nothing to do with game physics and Auto-aim is simply an assisting feature. Without it you would be defenseless against Modern graphics technology like OpenGL takes and allows you to appreciate Doom from every It's not that easy to simply state Doom is or isn't There are good reasons to believe one way But if you ask me - the answer is in the title. Doom engine is limited, but still 3D. The goal of this video was to visualize and Hopefully you learned something new and even if One last thing - I'd like to recommend a It explains the Doom engine in greater detail, It became a source of some points made in Thanks for watching and see you around!