We make our happiness hostage to the moment... no fulfillment because the I'm just wondering if you could Yeah, I mean, if we talk about free will, what we are talking about and whose free will or So, I guess both. I am wondering, Yeah, but yourself, you have to be clear yourself is this body, we can ask Obviously, it is not absolutely free because because it is subjected to illnesses, aging, have decided to move in some direction, right? which seems to be making the decisions, right? So, not free to go where it wants to; it is the driver that if I call &quot;I&quot; the body, no, there is no real Now it is conditioned by the thoughts, by the decisions. they come as thoughts at the let's raise the arm. At the time of a thought, following me? Because consciousness The perceiver (consciousness) and the perceived So the thinker of the thought comes as an created this thought.&quot; But this separate the thought itself is an object that appears Whereas, in fact, it was consciousness that was an object appearing in consciousness, consciousness thinks because decisions (I am going to your question) because decisions of the set of thoughts. It is not a separate entity. So the answer to your there is no freedom. But on the other hand, you when I decide.&quot; Yes, because at that moment So then there is free will, if we call it that, free will means what? It means a will that comes comes... Consciousness is freedom. from freedom. It's very different, by the And the beauty is that the will that comes from Whereas a will that comes from ignorance... no. of consciousness. It's the impersonal will, if So freedom is on the level of consciousness, Whereas most people believe that there a certain amount of freedom on the the individual can raise the arm right? But that is not true because it is only come from consciousness. They are cosmic events, So the place of freedom is universal, Now, there is another related question, predestination. One way to look at it is this: Let's take a very materialist way to look at it. This body is physics. The laws of physics are deterministic. from now is already decided, already determined. everything that happens in our life is no real freedom as a result. If everything That vantage point somehow grants reality to time is that time is not real. Time gets created. dreamer has the freedom, and the dreamer can moment. In other words, because the dreamer can But what happens in the dream is not decided if you will, from a different It's very hard to conceive that because it which is at the same time a place of So we can only understand the time in a movie is an illusion. When we watch for instance the various scenes in the movie may have been shot during the editing process, have been recreated to the time seems real, but it is all preordained because we are free, you know? We are and we are consciousness. So there freedom from and freedom to. To create, like the engineer, the freedom of creation, Freedom from is the first freedom we conquer on what we are is not affected by anything that by anything that appears in us. We are Freedom from everything that in ignorance seems from absolute disappearance. Experience of the But then whatever happens also is the display by Abhinavagupta, who lived, I think, in the he was a poet, and he was also a great grammarian, So he wrote poems about the Truth, and in one of and he describes at the end the life of the Jnani. He says something like, don`t remember exactly, enjoy the display of your divine energies. energies.&quot; That's the freedom to, knowing that Then you have the extraordinary that impersonal desires appear out of the So that's about free will. The place there is a manifestation of this nominal because there is no form in The philosopher Schopenhauer often said, he had he was reading some Indian texts, so he had some on. He was interested by that. So basically the only changing things throughout his life, and the For us, (&quot;Vorstellung&quot;, I think). For us, in fact, if we translate it, &quot;will&quot; that is the consciousness, the nominal aspect; &quot;representation&quot; But there is this consciousness and will, Could you say that again? (Inaudible) That consciousness also has the It's this transition, you know, between... We can are pure in their first moment, in the moment ignorance gets hold of them in the following I'm cooked.&quot; In other words, we make our desire. At that moment, no fulfillment because we have made our happiness lost sight of the fact that the objects Something interesting, actually, is a slight and often some scholastic Advaita path. Is that in the is accepted, is recognized as being ultimately no going exclusively to the pure consciousness, good. We want only sat-chit-ananda.&quot; It's I was thinking that too. So in this case, then Oh yes, it's always consciousness that chooses anything. So Shiva's potential as ignorance is imposes ignorance onto Shiva. Nobody imposes So then, ultimately, the divine will is manifested isn't it? Absolutely. Ignorance is and liberation is also the manifestation of the divine will. Yes, in cases then it's liberated. We know that. the thing we know as kids. The attraction of the do that.&quot; &quot;That must be interesting to do. There So that's a reflection on the human level possibilities. So the ego-mind, in the way choosing something that's good and then not in place an entire system whereby we are not being bad right now. So consciousness is being And that's a reason why, from the vantage No, it's wonderful. So in fact if a teacher says to the disciple, &quot;Oh oh, I'm going to help you. You're &quot;that's baad.&quot; That's not true. He's just kind of agreeing with him or her. So Ananda is a feeling. I understand it as a realization, would it be akin to enjoying ignorant consciousness by consciousness. Consciousness is enjoy, and it's not some people, in fact, it's an object. That's the enjoyment of ignorance. And yeah. So, is that enjoyment Ananda? It`s there is only Ananda because consciousness Right, okay.