There has been a long-running debate of which Kreme or Dunkin'. It's all a matter of taste, and that's Today, it's all about positivity. This list focuses on Krispy Kreme, and the So Delicious. The Smell That Started It All Krispy Kreme doughnuts were never intended When Vernon Rudolph, the mastermind behind in 1937, he exclusively did business with However, the smell of freshly made doughnuts Winston-Salem, North Carolina, drawing townspeople The locals were so entranced by the amazing pastries straight to the customers. In order to sell his coveted Original Glazed of his bakery. It was through this hole that the exchange We have the irresistible smell of Krispy Kreme now able to purchase them fresh off the conveyer We can probably all agree that having to resort they've been sitting on the shelf for who If you're as in love with the smell of Krispy were back in 1937, then you're in luck. You can actually buy candles scented to smell varieties. Unfortunately, these are no longer available Amazon and eBay. Don't Mess with Perfection Something else that makes Krispy Kreme doughnuts tried to mess with perfection. While Krispy Kreme has come out with new, their recipe for their classic Original Glazed This is their signature doughnut and it dates in 1937. Over the first few years, the recipe was tweaked let it be. Clearly this was the right move, since the popular product. This doughnut keeps people coming back time rely on it to be consistently delicious. Nostalgia is also a big factor at play, because for as long as they can remember. With the Original Glazed Doughnut, parents one of their favorite childhood treats with Krispy Kreme gives people what they want and, reliable, delicious doughnut they've been The Krispy Kreme Glaze They're called Krispy Kreme doughnuts for Without their famous glaze, these doughnuts In response to a post asking what makes Krispy to the importance of the glaze by sharing for a doughnut without it. Needless to say, they quickly came to regret make the same mistake they did. Everything about the doughnut this Redditor of the fryer and at the optimal temperature weren't enough to salvage it. Without the glaze it was bland and disappointing. The Redditor described it as practically tasteless Turns out that, especially in the case of that makes the pastry. It's what brings the flavor and brings the So please, respect the glaze. It's the real reason behind the amazing If you've ever had the (very strange) urge we ask that you repress it. Don't insult the doughnut like that. Honor the art of baking and eat the pastry You'll be doing yourself a favor. Manufacturing Anyone who knows anything about doughnuts not baked. What you may be surprised to discover is that frozen doughnuts, which are then baked and Naturally, cutting corners in this manner This is not the way of Krispy Kreme. Since the company's opening in 1937, all house. While their recipe is a closely guarded secret, The doughnuts were made by hand until 1963, efficiency. The dry doughnut mix used at all Krispy Kreme from the main production plant. The mix is made into dough on location. After the dough is prepared, it's sent through into an extruder. The extruder is what shapes the dough into The rings are then carried on a slow conveyer pattern through the hot and humid proof-box. This is where they rise and take the form After this step is completed, the dough is time. The final steps are cooling and glazing. The freshly fried doughnuts travel by conveyer glaze, which coats them instantly. And that's how Krispy Kreme doughnuts are This finely-honed technique ensures the production Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Are Always Fresh It might be the Tim Hortons motto, but the be applied to Krispy Kreme. Freshness is, of course, a key component of A dry, cold, day-old doughnut just doesn't fryer. Most places that sell doughnuts prepare a in the morning, before opening. This means that you won't be disappointed However, if you plan to pick up a box in the not be thrilled with the results. Fortunately, Krispy Kreme is aware of this They know their doughnuts have a 12-hour shelf Just like other establishments, one batch but, unlike many of their competitors, they This means that, regardless of when you stop with fresh, still warm doughnuts. The fresher the doughnut, the better it tastes, has won tremendous customer loyalty. Knowing that they can rely on Krispy Kreme is what keeps people coming back. The Krispy Kreme Hot Light While Krispy Kreme tries to deliver fresh glazed doughnut just out of the fryer. This is the prime time for the doughnuts to Krispy Kreme locations turn on their Hot Lights. A concept originating in 1992, the Hot Light comics. However, instead of summoning a superhero, The Hot Light signifies that a fresh batch customers to come and get them while they're Of course, not everyone can while away the it to begin glowing red. Thankfully, you no longer have to watch it fresh doughnuts. With the new Hot Light app, you can be notified Kreme has been turned on. Then, of course, you drop everything and run. Thanks to the Hot Light and its corresponding in order to get your hands on what is essentially The recipe and manufacturing process are just Freshness and temperature have a major effect If you can get all the variables to perfectly incredible experience. Free Food Tastes Better Krispy Kreme is nothing if not generous. It seems like they're giving out free doughnuts Many locations will participate in holiday doughnuts on National Doughnut Day or Veteran's Other giveaways require some customer participation. On Election Day, Krispy Kreme locations across an "I Voted Sticker" and, on Halloween, by giving them a pastry on the house. Additionally, in the name of reducing waste, doughnuts around closing time. These obviously aren't their freshest products, no to free doughnuts. So, how exactly does Krispy Kreme's generosity Technically, it shouldn't, but for some It's like the feeling you get when you've on a membership card. It's a small thing that really saves you the slightest bit triumphant afterwards. A free doughnut is the highlight of any day even sweeter. Since Krispy Kreme has regular promotions, see when they might be participating. It's definitely something you don't want Sweetness Something that sets Krispy Kreme doughnuts Many doughnuts are incredibly dense and leave entire cake, not just a small pastry. With Krispy Kreme you're guaranteed to satisfy rush and ultimate crash. Knowing this makes eating one of their doughnuts It's the perfect compromise. Surprisingly, the Original Glazed Doughnut than what some people put in their morning By not being too heavy-handed with the sugar, Some people like their desserts sweetened upon the first bite, but, in general, people more going on than just pure sugar. That's where Krispy Kreme really delivers. There's a lot of flavor going on outside these doughnuts really are. As Goldilocks would say, they're not too right. Even more impressive is the fact that people dozen Krispy Kreme doughnuts! An annual hospital fundraiser involves participants doughnuts, then running two and a half miles That seems pretty supportive of the fact that The Super-Secret Recipe The manufacturing process and freshness are so great, but the real hero here is the secret You can have the best equipment in the world, product won't be either. And when we say secret, we mean secret. Kept in a safe, the ingredient list for these As previously stated, the doughnut mixture Kreme employees don't know exactly what Several rumors about this secret recipe have popular one's being that mashed potatoes While this would account for how light and to label that rumor as false. But who knows? Anything is possible. We'll likely never find out what actually but we can't say we have any complaints They haven't let us down yet, so as long we get to keep eating their doughnuts, we're Specialty Ghostbusters Doughnuts Krispy Kreme has broken our hearts a few times Ghostbusters doughnuts. These celebratory doughnuts were sold in honor Ghostbusters film and the upcoming release Two new doughnuts were released: one with logo, and one designed to look like the Stay The artwork on both was pretty impressive. There's very little as universally loved a winning combination. Those who were fans of both the pastry and during this promotion. People love pairing pop culture and food - we It's one of those things that shouldn't does. We hope Krispy Kreme doesn't draw the line There are so many other pop culture references You can Explore more of our great videos just And if you're new to our channel, show us that bell to join our notification squad!