In the last episode of this mini-series, we and their route to Spain. This episode will focus on their kingdom in How did the Vandal Kingdom in Carthage begin Welcome to our second video on the Vandals, The sponsor of this video NordVPN probably it can save your data and passwords from the freely, which makes NordVPN indispensable you can protect your communications and personal or going to nordvpn.com/KingsandGenerals. NordVPN's 5500 super-fast servers located IP to avoid regional restrictions. Being geo-locked or missing a premiere or is no fun, and with NordVPN you will be able streaming subscriptions. Also, it is important to keep our browsing will do just that! You can use it even in countries where VPNs NordVPN never logs your data and protects double-data encryption! It works on Windows, Linux, iOs, and Android money-back guarantee! And most impressively, it is incredibly cheap, So, what are you waiting for? Support us, get 4 free months of premium VPN or pressing the link in the description! Don't forget to use the coupon code KingsAndGenerals! Under its enterprising new king, the Vandal and sailed across to North Africa in 429. As they were doing so, their benefactor in his imperial rivals and regained imperial He marshalled Roman forces to oppose the invaders. With a resupply fleet at their flank the Vandal travelled east on the Roman road system towards On the way, they ravaged the cities such as Horrified bishops wrote to their leader St. There might have been a sectarian aspect to emphasized the Arian Vandals' brutality The perpetrators of this violence would have contingent. Roman authorities attempted to broker a truce to crush Boniface's lower-quality units Leaving no time for the imperials to recover, besiege the great city, cutting it off from Gaiseric besieged Hippo in this way for fourteen After three, a great blow to Roman morale held on. After a year and two months had passed the of maintaining a siege, abandoned their efforts Believing the barbarian invaders of Africa sent a relief army to destroy the barbarians Though it was led by a prominent eastern general This time the beaten Romans didn't retreat sacking it. Showing his diplomatic flair, Gaiseric then III in which he would send tribute to the official title of dux. To bind the deal of 435 and to make it more Huneric as a hostage. The Vandal king/dux began attempting to consolidate aggressively persecuting Nicene bishops and In 437 and probably condoned by Gaiseric, called Guntharix began to sail into the Mediterranean, rich Sicily. There was no Roman response to this blatant that probably led a daring Gaiseric to believe In October 439, with the Roman Empire's in Gaul, the Vandals marched on Carthage. The sources relate a 'stratagem' or some access to the city. Judging by the Vandal king's official dux such authority to gain access. When he did, the sources state that his army However, it is unlikely that Gaiseric allowed become his capital. Instead, the Vandal leadership probably instead Christian elite, those bishops who were writing Upon taking Carthage, Gaiseric came into the practically useful than mere treasure. He also captured the huge Roman fleet which Vandal naval might. With the momentum it now had, the Vandalic The vast seaborne strength which Vandal Carthage the centuries' old tales the Romans had which ruled North Africa more than half a As the year 440 began, squadrons of these the way from Sardinia to Rhodes. Gaiseric himself led the main expedition to and strategic launching point of Sicily, many His ultimate aim by doing this was to put Empire and to force it to the negotiating These lightning attacks disrupted grain supplies of treasure, but by the end of 440, Gaiseric To prepare for it, he sailed back to Carthage there. This decision was a prudent one. Soon after the Vandal navy's return, a combined gathered in recently ravaged Sicily set on leave the starting line. Eastern and western commanders quarrelled the armies, while political intrigue in Constantinople to terrible delays. Such constant postponement doomed the venture other external pressures. Almost as soon as the imperial armies left took the opportunity in stride and raided The Sassanians, not willing to miss the chance also took advantage and attacked Armenia. So, requiring their troops on other fronts African reconquest was abandoned. The bold but educated gamble to seize Carthage Rome could simply no longer afford to direct at their throat. In 442, the Vandalic leadership concluded Christian writer Saint Prosper gives us this made peace with Gaiseric and Africa was divided With this agreement in hand, King Gaiseric hill of Byrsa and set about ruling his wealthy still at times quite ruthless manner when With the freezing of hostilities with Rome, Excepting the biased accounts of Nicene Christian little evidence that Gaiseric and the Vandals in order to settle their own people. In fact, the king seems to have understood new lands unprofitable, and actually employed Appropriating the empire's ancient 'honesta of discharging veteran soldiers, Gaiseric soldiers to his Vandalic warriors in return Meanwhile at the very top of the social pyramid, the emperor and the aristocratic estate holders. In this way, as Ian Hughes succinctly puts into the shoes of the Roman authorities that The remaining Roman population, which it should the Vandals, simply paid their usual taxes To cement the new regime's control over individuals to run certain key aspects of who the Vandals could trust. For instance, one high official who served named 'Heldica' - a typically Germanic In addition, the equivalent of a Roman concilium and magnates who would assist the king in It is like that, much like the administration, in an attempt to integrate the remaining Roman The Vandals do not seem to have inflicted aristocrats, but there is some tenuous evidence and replaced by trusted Romano-African families. Naturally, these newly-minted individuals to Gaiseric, their benefactor. The king's other attempts to ensure his of Africa were many. Firstly, Gaiseric adopted a new dating system year of Carthage's seizure, was noted as This would help instill legitimate Vandal Rather than a foreign king and barbarian occupier, ruler who held his new subjects in such high great city. These attempts to firmly plant his family's betrothal of Gaiseric's son - Huneric, to of the 442 treaty. In addition to making the Vandal rule more of Africa, this marriage also helped the king customs. The usual tradition was that the eldest male an election, but Huneric's elevation to in a good position to inherit the Vandal throne Not content with merely turning the administration set about tapping the vast amounts of political religious institutions to his side. These reforms were primarily focused on increasing branch of Christianity, while decreasing any creed still held. Though there was a pragmatic motive to this, Gaiseric was actually quite a religious man Before one of the Vandals' seaborne raids, His response was a concise one imbued with those with whom god is angry." To that end, churches that had formerly belonged to Arian priests and bishops. Moreover, the Arian clergy also received a been previously confiscated from the old Roman a self-sufficient entity. This kind of reconfiguration also took place direction. A system wthathad been previously focused as part of the annona tax system was freed merchants to trade a larger portion of their However, commerce with some regions of the political factors. For example, diminished trade with the eastern or enforced imperial regulation designed to In southern Gaul, the decrease can easily Gaiseric's Vandals and the Visigoths who On the other hand, trade with nearby Hispania This is either evidence of mutual fondness Vandal overlords, or that some of Gaiseric's king crossed the straits. Whatever the case, while some markets fell career, production markedly increasing, a out, wealth flowed into Byrsa's coffers In foreign affairs, Vandal policy continued No further attempt was made to assault the any attempt to do so would provoke an attack harm the kingdom's stability. Moreover, there is some evidence of an internal by North Africa's great Vandal magnates attacks. When the plot was discovered, those responsible Among the victims of Gaiseric's purges were and children of Gunderic, his half brother The details are unknown, but it is likely Ian Hughes puts this underlying instability the Goths, the modern perception that the of Gaiseric conceals the reality of many different of one man.' Nevertheless, the economy grew, sophisticated output once again flourished, all under the monarch. Though the Vandalic military did not attack were still on the warpath. In 445, Gaiseric undertook an assault on litus - under Suebi control at the time. The first rupture in the so-called 'Vandal over the Huns in 451 at the Catalaunian Plains. It is likely that the triumph emboldened the imperial marriage that Gaiseric's son had This didn't cause any immediate break with was to come from events outside the barbarian Continuing the trend shown many times in both intrigue and internal strife would once again In September 454 magister militum Aetius was Gaiseric used the instability to prepare for The preparations for war were timely indeed. Half a year after killing his top general, assassinated and succeeded by Petronius Maximus. To secure the throne, Maximus forced Valentinian's ordered that Huneric's betrothed to marry The horrified and outraged empress looked greatest diplomatic hope to the south, where fully prepared to take advantage of Roman If it ever actually arrived, the letter from the final straw. Gaiseric had already been hungrily eying the death and this turmoil at the highest level So, whether due to sheer opportunistic greed, of a potential future conflict or any number from Carthage and headed straight for Rome After a voyage lasting roughly a week, warriors from their vessels at Ostia in the mouth of Fear took hold of Maximus almost instantly as he did. Rudderless and without any legions to defend to the bishop of their city - Leo, who bravely Attila three years before. As in his previous encounter with the Hun with Gaiseric are not known. However, Prosper of Aquitaine tells us the king that 'when everything was given into burning, killing and torture.' An agreement was reached and, on June 2nd, in the history of the world willingly opened Yet, anxieties that the Romans must have had unfounded. Gaiseric set himself up in the imperial palace the occupied city. The Vandals sacked Rome for fourteen days, in 410. The treasury was emptied of its riches, temples and the palace was picked completely clean. Even the treasures seized from Jerusalem after by the Vandals. After thorough looting, Gaiseric left Rome He then loaded all of the captured wealth sail for Africa. Among the spoils were former Empress Eudoxia Though the Vandal looting of 455 cleared Rome seem to have kept his promise to Bishop Leo. There is almost no evidence of mass killing It is important to remember, however, that isolated incidents, away from the view of Thirteen years later, the Vandal Kingdom endured of the empire to recapture Africa by defeating This failure to regain Africa sealed the Western by Odoacer in 476. In 477, Gaiseric finally passed away after than almost every other ruler of the age and ruler. Unfortunately, after his death, the kingdom in the reconquest by Justinian and Belisarius More videos on Germanic and Roman history and have pressed the bell button to see the Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and