On June 21st, 2018, on the remote island of first blast of what would become Sandoyartunnilin, twelve hundred, to the big boy island of Streymoy, not a lot. These are among the Faroe Islands, far north in the Atlantic that in summer, the people live here, but nevertheless, the Faroese 347 million more to build Sandoyartunnilin, which tunneling from New Albany, Ohio to New Albany, fourth such tunnel the Faroese built. One of them Begging the questions: Why?? How?? Am And when the time comes, can I pronounce this? which connects 88% of the islands' population to through either of these tunnels, the first two or about seven bucks and change, a and nothing at all if you're on a motorcycle, ice-cold bad boys shouldn't have to pay tolls. The you for a motorcycle. In 2023, these three tunnels cars, trucks, and motorcycles underwater from one really isn't. The Lincoln Tunnel, which connects has 4.5 million cars go through it roughly every but it takes less than five months for 4.5 Gap Tunnel in Kentenessee, a tunnel I found tunnels trying to find one smalltime enough to be The combined cost to build these four tunnels is a whole 8129.63 Euros per capita for the Faroes' 6271.43 per sheep, as they have 70,000 of those. the United States' big, 1.2 trillion dollar an investment of just 3600 dollars per capita, or do anything in Euros, rah rah USA fly eagle et into the sea than build fun new infrastructure priority of tunneling under and through their From 1963 to 2006, with Norway's engineering tunnels, connecting places as obscure as Gasadalur numbers of people from hiking a mountain to the Norwegians started tunneling underwater, which tunnel underwater. And a short seventeen years of their first, which would connect Streymoy, the with Vagar, the island with the airport on it. using what's called the "drill and blast" method, invented, also called "Drill and Blast,&quot; which start with extensive geological surveys to and where the tunnel should go. According to one amount to 2.5-7% of a tunnel's entire cost. Once load 'em up with water-resistant explosives, Then you clear out the rubble, line the tunnel and repeat for a couple of years until you meet side, Lady-and-the-Tramp-style. Then you finish road. There's also the matter of leaks. Every to pump out 600-1300 cubic meters--or roughly one they do through a system of pipes, pumps, and pump The Faroes' first undersea tunnel, Vagatunnilin, there, but I'd say this part is for Vagar, and five kilometers long, and saw an average of about Government took out an eighteen million Euro loan because everybody loved this thing. So they built Nordoyatunnilin, the world's best way to get sees a bit more traffic than the first tunnel, After an 11-year breather, they made first blast 2020 and features an undersea roundabout where you keep driving in circles because you can't decide Sandoyartunnilin, opened at the end of 2023. get a person, sheep, or vehicle from one island YouTube dot com to disparage the Faroe Islands Islands"--but the ferries were orders of magnitude off, you had to travel on their schedule, while bad weather in the icy, raging waters of the North tunnels are fast. Getting from Sandoy to the tunnel takes about 16 minutes, even less if But you could. Fourth: I love a boat, you love a for a Faroe Islands ferry costs about the same as tunnel is a bit over 11 kilometers, so arguably, years each, you know, if you believe civilization in the snow. And frankly, 80/20 when I see a that improves people's lives, whether or not the The next undersea tunnel the Faroe Islands are of Sandoyartunnilin fame, to the southern island tunnel the Faroes build, not for lack of money thing, they'll have connected just about everyone populations under 20, and to be clear, tunneling Islands tunnels have genuinely reshaped life and spots to the airport, making exporting easier. other sheep. The outer islands, which had been to live for people who don't want to totally other people. Look at this graph of Eysturoy's building the tunnel? Bingo. Also, not for nothing, Faroe Islands much more appealing. Just imagine the beauty of the Faroes'...long-term infrastructure sweet Drill and Blast... [more Drill and Blast]. drill a blast, check out this video's sponsor: America's best specialty coffees from home. decaf, cold brew, whatever--and whether you'd like coffee matches for you and ship 'em right to anywhere too--every coffee is roasted to order, the best, most convenient way to make a killer so exciting to see that little red bag at your Wizard Cat Coffee from Cerberus. This one's kind vibe, Trade's still got you covered--you can sort the origin... all this to say, if you want to give Trade a try! They're offering you your first and if you don't love it, they'll replace it