They were designed to be the best... they met enemies face to face, endured tragedies and enjoyed victories... they went down in history due to the bravery of their crews... they are the ships that deserve to be called "Naval Legends!" In this episode, watch Yamato Life and Death of the Legendary Battleship. By spring 1945, it became clear that only a miracle The Land of the Rising Sun had lost and US troops were already landing on the Japanese islands. On the morning of April 6, Japan's legendary The last bit of hope the Japanese possessed rested with this steel giant - the largest That naval operation in the Pacific, was a dangerous mission. and the Japanese believed luck would The history of battleship Yamato In October 1935, Japanese engineers put together Unlike the Americans, whose ships were limited nothing restricted the Japanese from and arming them as heavily as possible. Japanese designers set out to make battleships powerful and any ships that would be built in the upcoming years. The production facilities behind me were the Kure Its dockyard saw the birth of battleship Yamato . Her keel was laid in 1937, and the ship was completed 1941. Yamato was the heaviest battleship in the world. Back then, That would be over 1 trillion yen Initially Japan planned to build However, the Pacific War began, Japan stopped building the third ship, Shinano, and never started the fourth one. Eventually, Shinano was converted to an aircraft carrier. Yamato is the ancient name for Japan, Strict secrecy was maintained throughout her construction: all engineers swore a solemn oath of non-disclosure, and the workers going in and out were compared Japanese shipbuilders certainly had something big to hide... Total displacement: 72,808 t Length: 263 m Beam: 38.9 m Draft: 10.8 m Armament Three turrets each having three 40-SK Mod. 94 guns Caliber: 460 mm Secondary battery Two turrets each having three Type 3 guns Anti-aircraft artillery Twelve coaxial Type 89 guns Fifty triple-barrel and two single-barrel Air group Armor Main turrets: 190-650 mm Conning tower: 300-500 mm Power plant 4 Kampon turbines and 12 Kampon RO boilers Power: 154,000 shp Maximum speed: over 27 knots Operational range: 7,200 nautical miles at 16 knots Yamato's key features are her main turrets, The guns could fire shells weighing almost 1.5 tons A gun turret, including the barbette, weighed 3,000 tons. Yamato's main turrets were guided by a fire control system, range-finders, and electromechanical calculators It was a state-of-the-art system for the time: lack of fire control radars for engaging surface targets This gave the Japanese firing capability The ship's secondary battery consisted of two turrets, The guns featured excellent ballistic characteristics however, their rate of fire was pretty low. When commissioned, Yamato had six coaxial plus short-range anti-aircraft artillery The number of AA guns was constantly The 127-mm anti-aircraft guns So if an enemy aircraft flew into this gap, Furthermore, the 127-mm guns had relatively low traverse They also failed to fire at the declared rate Yamato enjoyed the heaviest armor had armor that was on average 100 mm thinner. The armor belt of the Japanese giant formed a citadel The most protected part was the ship's conning tower... The weapon systems became literally giant. The Japanese built a superbattleship But the problem was that it did not pay off. You can build one Yamato-class battleship, but she would still be destroyed There are still such characteristics as mobility, Yamato was commissioned in late 1941. In her first mission, the Battle of Midway, Yamato served During the battle, on June 4 through 6, 1942, Yamato did not fire a single shot The Japanese military command was definitely for an upcoming major battle against the US fleet. As a result, Japanese seamen They even made up a saying that the world's three China's Great Wall, the Egyptian pyramids, It was not until autumn 1944 Together with her sister ship Musashi, Yamato attacked In that battle, Yamato was only slightly damaged, demonstrated her power, and recovered the status However, the situation in the Pacific theater Progress in military technology basically When making a new weapon system, designers bigger caliber, thicker armor, etc. Then they come to a dead end, but improving a separate weapon type A radical change is carrier-borne aviation and, Yamato is the peak, It is not about progress, it is about reaching the peak. In 1945, World War II reached Japan's home islands. The command of the Japanese Combined Fleet Yamato, with the help of a light cruiser was to defend the island of Okinawa or fight to the end and finish her journey gloriously. Executing this order, on April 6, 1945, the legendary Japanese battleship The United States sent its Task Force 58 The Americans would not miss the chance As early as at 10 a.m., the first US squadrons took off located about 300 miles away from Yamato. A total of 227 aircraft took part The battle began at 12:34. Four aerial bombs hit Yamato, taking out a 127-mm gun and several automatic cannons. In just 20 minutes, two more bombs struck the battleship, In response, Yamato fired her anti-aircraft weapons. At 14:02, the Americans launched the last attack It was a demonstrative execution: four torpedoes destroyed the ship's damage control center. Yamato stopped moving and started listing and when this huge ship capsized, The pride and hope of the Japanese fleet went under. Together with the ship, 3,000 crew members were lost, including the commanders of the Japanese force and the ship. For the Japanese, Yamato still remains a symbol of the nation's might The city where the legendary battleship was built whose centerpiece is an 26-meter model of Yamato . The Kure Municipal Museum of Naval History the rich naval tradition of the city. Now it is known as the Yamato Museum. The exhibits reflect the naval history of Kure; in other words, the history The museum has become quite popular. Fans of battleships come here from all over the country. However, we should remember that it was originally dedicated The violent explosion that finished the was caused by the detonation of her main battery magazines. However, there is plenty of debate about The answer is probably hidden on the bottom of the ocean: so far researchers have been unable It is true that Yamato had a number of drawbacks. Like her sister ship, Musashi, The key reason for that was the ships' fundamental lack Yamato remains the largest and For every person who takes interest Yamato embodies military might. Born to terrify and crush enemies, this formidable steel giant managed to glorify She represented a pinnacle in large battleship design, and in that sense, Yamato will always remain a symbol and a legend.