It has been a "What actually Happened in Asheville: A Hurricane Helene Story" First thing I wanted to say is thank you so much to everybody send a donation to the amazing people They need your help. And you guys have really brought We are just speechless. Yeah, honestly, it's it's overwhelming. The outpouring of love, prayers that have gone like Nathaniel And so that is the reason why we even So it's really cool to see how it's And we are here to bring you Two days after the release of our film, and she informed us that she is the woman carrying her child being rescued And so we set up a time to talk to her, So here it is. First off, thank you so much I cannot even believe that I just would love to hear Yeah. I mean, This is the whole trying to think about telling the stories. It's still really bizarre, but, Yeah. So my husband and I have been married 13 years, and, he's from Brevard And so we both grew up We went to the same college. Never saw each other when we came back. Here is when we met each other. And, all the love at first sight But we've been through a lot since we got married, I feel like along the way, that particular day, as I previously shared with you, just so it just one horrible thing after another, and it just was, like, we had just came back from Disneyworld with our family, And that was a whole other situation that caused a lot of stress and anxiety. But we came back and that evening, my daughter, stay at her grandparents Pop-Pop and I couldn't say no. And so she went to go Friday morning we woke up. Everything was fine. I mean, And, my husband went to work. My husband works from sheriff's And it was probably within the first that he was going to be coming home, Things are getting really bad. And roads were shutting down and the storm was starting to get close So thank God he came home when he did his. If he hadn't, most likely and I would have been at home with Madison, my daughter, that, my in lobster, the iron pot part. But I had the other three with me, And so my husband came home and, Disney, you know, we let all of our groceries go I mean, you have, like, stuff on the way if it's edible or not, food or, And so we thought we would just pop out down the road And my cats that's that's my cat here, and she's my best friend. So. Yeah, we pop down the road to a Sheetz gas station, which is not even been open, And I thought, well, surely like, or a half gallon of milk, like maybe containers just to get us through a day or the day after, because this is like going to be like It's just going to be another It's going to be fine. And within 20 minutes of me being inside the entire parking lot was flooded out of the parking lot. And we have a four wheel drive vehicle. And that was with like my husband, scary, the sheets and that I would have But it wasn't. We drove around for three hours and every road that we knew, I mean, we're locals And every road we tried power lines, like exploding and being, Or there were trees down I mean, we were driving forever which was from as the crow flies, I mean, across the road. And finally we got so far, We're starting to get low on gas. Yeah, I have an eight I, we're going We have to get back. So we turn around and go back down Like we even had to make some detours and made it back to the sheets. Except for It was like a community pool because they were going to be trapped because the four way intersection in the middle of it. And that's when I think you saw us. My husband and I, in my desperation, was like, walk down to the end of the intersection. And, you know, or maybe there's, I mean, We live across the bridge There's got to be a way. And I got down there and I just started, like, sobbing Something there was. There's like a big tire, store all the tires were floating, this, And the water was so disgusting. I mean, full of, And oil and gas from the truck stop And I could tell But then I saw a search and rescue guy well, swimming, He had like all his gear on and a life And that's when I was like, We are. We are toast. Like, there's And the search and rescue guy and he even had like little paddles And sorry, But he made it across and I asked him I guess, decompressing from coming across I just looked at it I was like, or is there anything that we can do I have my three boys in the car there's got to be a way to get home parked on the bridge behind us that we're going to be sleeping we have very little gas left. And the guy asked me where I lived, like a boat from the bridge, that he will take you, And so over the next bit that we waited to come across, and then from there my husband, I crossed with our family, So they took my husband first and my son And so you see him in the video And Noah is like, oh boy, so tough. But he also has very soft heart. And he I was so worried to be left over there alone, because then my husband was going to have to come back Or come back across to me and then he could carry our eight year You has no idea what's going on And it's like, not a big fan of water. But thank God, and they were like trying to joke with him let him push horns and stuff to like, And they came back across. He got my husband and I and the baby and my oldest son Yeah. I just remember thinking Like I'm not walking through this with my babies because I had a carrier So I strapped the carrier on me and put the lifejacket around me, and they slipped the lifejacket up were like kicking and disgusting And I had on jeans that were like, crossing clothes But we made it across and I just We've got to cross. Like there's going to be rainbows going to be awesome. From here, So we got our lifejackets I had like some sort of golf cart, and it's like, hey, could you is there any way I mean, like, here's all my family, like, unfortunately, she said no and rescue people with something else at that time, an emergency. I totally understood. But I was just hoping, you know, maybe So instead, we walked the five miles back with our three boys and I just kept, like, that was. I was probably walking too fast. I was in the front, to make sure my husband But I was just determined. Like, if we get to our neighborhood per Like, that's that's my safe place, And we got into our neighborhood, we came to was completely flooded, of 5 to 6, six foot of water And that's when it hit me, like our house Like, that's not going to happen. Like God protected our house. It's okay, we're going to get there. So we got to the next intersection And right as we came up over the hill I could see our house in the water and I just like, lost it again, And I don't know Any of us are thinking, but, he was he wasn't going to go. He was like, There's no way. It's too deep. It's getting dark, it's cold. And I knew our pets were in there. Like, I lost my mom and it really early for my mom in there, like, And so we grabbed on to our neighbors, and use it to kind of pull ourselves While we were holding the kids. Oh, we got in, out of the water And at that time, the water was right And I just kept praying like, God, like, You know, we can get new grass, It's okay. But just keep our house safe. And my husband, got inside and he looked out the back door and the water wasn't It was about halfway up. And so he grabbed a piece of kids And it's like, okay, It's probably going to be fine. I mean, it was seconds And that's when he looked at me. We gotta get out of here. It's coming in really, really fast. And I don't think I understood. And I think I just like, because I was like, you know, do I Like, what do I take? I can't take anything I can't leave them to come back So we just grabbed. We had just like I grabbed, a carry on suitcase and threw And like, I tried to grab my kids like their stuff, the items that they love And I grabbed our cat and then I was like, well, My husband is a K-9 officer, canine that lives with us, that his and then we have a personal dog that we've So we decided that we were all going to go back through the water to the other side, where there was enough of a crest and then he was going to come back So we did the whole thing over again, I'm like holding the baby, like trying to get across the water. We get out and there's people starting to like, I guess surveying the damage, I don't, I honestly I was ready to get yell at them and not even offer to help us. But then immediately, like as soon as we got out of the water, We do to help you and these two guys, I couldn't take them out of the lineup with my husband while I stayed So they ended up going swimming across, and then the dog And I think when I saw my husband that's when everything gets really, I don't know if I just shut down, I don't know, but like, that started coming down the road, Somebody picked us up on a golf cart who, you know, we hadn't had cell service. We had no idea if our friends had even But thank God And we showed up. And I just, like, And it was like, our house is gone. Can we please stay here? We have nowhere to go. I don't know if my daughter is okay I don't I don't know what's going on, And of course, they let us. And then, you know, they were in complete because they were in the part that looks like everything is normal, it's so surreal because you come in one entrance and then you come in a different entrance The Walking Dead. I mean, it's sadness and just so much destruction. It's. Yeah, it's it's wild that. Right. Like. I'm sorry. That's a lot. No no no no no. Thank you. Oh. Like, I can't even like what was going through your head It's just so emotional because, like, this poor family, that you saw, the things you went through, and and hearing you recount I even know what you went through before you got back to North Carolina there, you It was a complete chaotic disaster. So knowing knowing the depth of that like it was literally I mean, you're so strong to like, oh man, have like held it together and obviously, I just I'm so sorry. Yeah. You know, I mean, that's That's all. I feel like that can get me All of those parts of the event was just. I just went into, I wasn't it, but I don't think I was truly I was just we were going to survive no matter what I had to do. If I had to swim across without search and rescue, That's not probably smart. But I was determined. Yeah. And I think, you know, this is the moment that I relate with that when these crises happen, with the information that you have You try to be, you know, move in the best direction Using a human instinct. Because like you said, There was no, power, there was no, running water. And so we were all just kind of operating, within settings. And I think, one of the questions how in that moment, you know, what was it like to to be in the moment, understanding on your senses So, you know, we never I, at least Asheville or this part of the country And I think that's part of what made it with a reality that I don't even think we even thought could exist. Was that something that you kind of felt? Did you feel like this is almost so surreal, that this type of flooding that a hurricane Oh, I hate to admit, but I'm a recovering glass And, I served briefly in the Army. My husband is in the sheriff's department, and we're not probably the most positive We wish that we were. We try to be. But, I feel like a lot of times in the face. And, we're both I feel like we've both been through to help us think on a critical level It's not how I want to live. And I it's it's I mean, it's it's tough, but I feel like it's a lot of scenarios where and just make the best decisions I mean, I was telling Juliette I don't even know how my husband knew because I feel like maybe it But he knew that the day after everything, he knew that we needed And if the water was starting to recede, We had hardwood floors in our house And some way, somehow he knew that And he said, the clock is ticking. We have to we have to start ripping the floor up It won't be as damaging to the house, where the waters were at and we can potentially save it and we can't get the floor ripped out, like immediately, It'll be infested with mold and it we won't be able to fix it, And this whole time sense of of doom coming because we know We live in a place in North Carolina and it's not even remotely our neighbors. We found out later days actually asked about, flood insurance And they told they were told they couldn't get it because they didn't So I'm thinking like one, this is my home. This is my heart, my family's. It's been here. And then the other hand, we're going to we're going to be homeless to fix the house alone, and we're So I just Again. It goes back to that This has this next step has to be done. All we can do is take the next step. And and so when you guys went back into was anyone there or was it just and taking the floor out Yeah. So the first day Saturday, we both went in there, we took, the baby, Shepherd, he's eight months, and left him, met with our friends it would be harder for him And we just started ripping up the floors So I was ripping them up and piling them. And then the boy, Noah was helping his dad the the pile of flooring we knew that several of the houses around us had been severely impacted, We were the only people who were back, like, we didn't know where anybody was or if they were coming back And like our neighbors to the left of us, for example, Like there. I think they were saying in certain places of their house, we get into their house or something to let some of this water out But yeah, the first day it was, And then the second day it was Yeah, just us. And then our friend's son came and helped for a little bit, and then the following day is to sort of settle, and we started to see And that's when we started to really see And these people that we don't really know we wave at and say, hey, work, see people walking their dogs and we're like, what can I do? Hello, what do you need from us? Like, We have people from our church group because they knew that our neighborhood And that's when just all the hands and they started ripping cabinets out, trim and doors, I mean, it hasn't fully processed all of it yet But there were so many people playing such an important part, all their names and all their faces. And I wish I could because I know I didn't say thank you enough at the time, but like, I didn't, like, dropped off peanut butter like stuff like that really obviously hit me so hard because, like, just because you can't do a huge thing And the small things Oh. Beautiful. Oh my goodness. Yeah. And one of the things is that we wanted to talk to you today Obviously, we're not in the same town, and And I think a lot of people who have seen the film are also thinking, How can we help? And I want to ask you, specifically through this time? Well, first and foremost, prayers, That's like the first thing for is to pray for our family and those who have not gotten help yet there's so much destruction here. And we didn't even see half of what I mean, we're still hearing these stories. Oh, just heartbreaking stories of people Still people who are in that they had their entire bridge get across to get to like the main area, Their whole side of the mountain they live on, they were cut off. I, I've heard stories and law enforcement recently about people's bodies floating down the river, They couldn't even get to them. Like there's just so much heartache. But, yeah, pray. That's definitely the biggest thing. And outside of that, destructing our house, that hitting you getting all of the sickness out of it. I mean, the our sewer system completely, overflowed on top of the flood wall. So anything that was in the water And so all of our freedoms are all over Most of our kids toys, and shoes and bedding, But we've been so blessed. We've had so many people and had, like, I had a friend showed up Barbie, that she still have. I haven't given they're teary eyed because I want to get you my reaction that we've been so blessed and stuff like that. So right now We've got rebuild. We are very fortunate A lot of people don't have that. We're able to stay with my in-laws. They have room for us and power and water. So we're here for the foreseeable future, so it's a little cramped, But outside of that, you know, we have reached out to FEMA for assistance, and we've gotten But unfortunately, what it's going to take And so a good friend of ours And it's been so credible, to see, like, I have no idea who they are. And it's just it really touches my heart And then people want to hear and they want to know, like, the truth, is really being told super well out there And yeah, that, you know, If you can't get over it, Me share others. GoFundMe but we're trying to that have we're impacted And again, just because you can't do a big thing Yeah. Laura, this, it's like, We are praying for your And, we will encourage every single person from all corners of the world to pray there and beyond, for people who are left It's it's catastrophic. So, we'll also be putting your GoFundMe link up And I cannot wait for the day and give you and your family But for now, both of us. Yeah, we are giving you and your family and you were advocating and for all the families left And the last thing I want, The thing that is obviously we're We're entering into a really dangerous and you've experienced something that, And it's just the most, it's just it's so hard to hear the story, What would you tell other people What would be the one thing And we'll let you close it? I just think it's so important for people and to like to truly hold tight to that, I mean, we can get new clothes, new grass, we can get a new car, And in that two days that I went which I share with Jillian, and has some extra special needs going to days if she had her was two of the worst days of my life and the way I felt when I hugged her, completely the best feeling ever, you know, that she was safe. And I just encourage people And just because you don't have all the things you want God is what completes us, I just think it's so important we share with each other, Right? Thank you so much. I, I just I'm really grateful to God that your And sent it to you, or your guardian angel or whatever and so that we could connect forward to this relationship I can't wait till the day you all big hugs in person Please stay safe and we're sending and we'll continue sharing your GoFundMe And just telling everybody And we'll be just holding Thank you guys so much. You should be honored I've never DM anybody So I'm pretty proud of myself. But I'm proud of you Yeah. For sure. Thank you guys so much. I'm just I feel so blessed you guys read my message and responded. And now that we're talking So thank you. Of course it's our joy and and honor. So sending so much love Blessings and. Thank you. All.