For the last eight months I've been experimenting It's for this channel but you I've taken my whole list of tools and narrowed it down to the best free option for every Let's start with a couple then we'll get into the more practical. on your phone and turn it into a fully like this That uses Neural Radiance Fields or NeRFs Interactive Scenes that uses gaussian splatting. And you don't have to know either of those terms. The interactive scenes have a small file size so you can embed them anywhere or send There's endless uses for this in retail, real tons of Industries but also for creative uses Just download the free app on your phone, there's uploads from other users I love the way these look when they load. Then you just move your finger To create your own either start a on the screen or you can take Just walk around a scene or if you're results if you do multiple circles Just upload and let it render. Once the scene right on your phone or you can You can create custom videos using key frames, you can guide the camera movement throughout Here's a really cool one I saw on so you can import these into game engines if you One of the ideas I'm working on It's another free tool, you can pick anywhere locations. They have presets to do it really exactly how fast it moves and the angles it takes. jump in and use. There's a lot of tutorials on This seems like a good spot to test out a NeRF That was my first test combining those in yet but I think it has some both really fun tools to mess Luma Labs has one more recent release that's free right now during the research phase. It's operated in the Luma Discord server in any Just add your prompt and it generates best version of text-to-3D I've come There's people rigging entire scenes know how long this will be free I'll go into a lot more creative and 3D but I'm also very into productivity and One of my favorites that I use all the ChatGPT. Basically an interactive Search It uses up-to-date information and browses back with concise answers almost instantly. can click through to the article for immediately and sometimes will cite like And if you're using the desktop too. You can also upload PDFs I use the mobile app most and find myself using it over Google most of the time There is a pro version but I've never felt any need to And I'm only talking about tools that I want to mention when they have paid upgrades of how much comes in the free plan, that with something only to find out you have to SciSpace is the easiest way to find, learn, similar to Perplexity but this only cites research So it's geared towards people that are for anyone that has questions in the realm of Ask any question and it will give you at the top with citations you can click relevant papers below. You can also chat with Another cool feature is you can a summary and ask questions related Chrome extension to use all those If you're reading a paper online you ask clarifying questions, clip math equations it's a really powerful research All of that is completely free they do have some Here's one more in this realm similar to it's their new Search Generative Experience, This is an experimental feature you pops up on the top of your search and with sources on the side. You can expand it It can be really helpful in a lot of To set it up go to labs.google.com Click get started then switch it on. for coding and adding AI to sheets. on and off at any time with They also very recently added in You just type in the search bar From there you can click ask a followup and in. You can add follow-up prompts to change I actually liked this one with download or hit edit to go into a new workspace There's a button to have it help you write Sometimes it ends up not generating all the images I think it's just censoring There's more text to image generators I will be covering those a bit later. Now I wanted to pack this video with and that is made possible by Before I started this channel I wanted the basics but I wanted to really This is the course I watched I used what I learned in that course to I've of course learned more since then but that course was extremely helpful. And this channel did grow from 0 to over And I've used Skillshare over the years for illustration, a lot of creative courses, And they have a wide range of other social media, marketing, productivity Honestly, I take a lot of courses. I have time new skills. That involves multiple sources, of I love the learn by doing approach actionable with a project you I've gotten a lot from Skillshare so it was an easy choice when they reached And the first 500 people to use my link will get You can watch multiple entire courses in that first month to make sure you like the So thank you to Skillshare for sponsoring this Now let's move on to some music tools. This next one is really fun It's called Suno and it can generate you a song with instruments and vocals It's operated within Discord Discord server below with all the other links. Go to one of the chirp beta and either submit your own lyrics or write a Let's do the greatest movie of all time. The Big Lebowski Then you can type a genre. If you leave it as Bluegrass seems like a good fit. And that's all there is to it. The verse Nailed it. Then usually just another minute or different options up to 40 seconds [Music] In a world of bowling balls and weed, [Music] his robe and is White Russian in hand, [Music] He's The Big Lebowski, that's his name That's pretty solid, especially considering all I entered was a few words. And there is Another fun one is to use and see how it interprets it. I'll [Music] Purple haze all in my brain, [Music] acting funny but I don't know why, [Music] Purple haze all around, [Music] Am I happy or in misery whatever it is, That's actually insane how good that is. I'm I originally scripted this section but they have changed that now you get They do have a paid option if you want, but this is mostly just a quick tool I use The next one is in the same open source. It was released It generates music under tons of different There's a couple ways to use first someone built a better You just enter a prompt with whatever genre, instruments, tempo, feel. Click submit and let it generate. It takes a minute or two then usually comes There is another feature where you can give it an into Waveformer, so if you want to use that, Upload a file that has a melody in it, I'll So you describe the music the description and the melody to create a song. Let's see what we got. When I think of the implications of the other technologies that are coming surprised at all if people start listening This last music one is a really cool suite of tools developed by Google in They help with lyric writing but artist is really involved in the process. They're all free and really easy to jump Here's a clip from their promo video This bite-sized AI tool that explode it into all these different and that's just one tool we It's called textfx. These tools, they generate similes, it's a entire suite of different kinds of Now onto the more visual side. Probably the easiest way to Go to convert.leiapix.com click upload and easy as that, you There's sliders to change how long the also an advanced editor where Then just select your export format. It's [Music] You get 60 credits when you join, but to export in full resolution costs 20 I have no idea why they call that 60 get unlimited free exports in 720p which can export unlimited depth maps for free This is by Ilumine AI it's kind of like LeiaPix but This is the home screen, there's some A bunch of these look really cool and well in here. Then right here Once you've done that you so back to LeiaPix, upload your Now upload that in Insta3D and it's good to go. You can move all around the scene. They have some different effects down at the work really well for this and any of them start but it is really amazing that you can [Music] This one is research from Meta, it's fun animate children's drawings but you can needs to be on a white background Click upload photo, agree, then adjust the frame On the next page you can fix then find each of the joints then let it do its thing and there it is we have a bunch of it's made to animate children's drawings so but it's fun to mess around with. You could key out the background also it looks completely ridiculous [Music] On to Pika Labs which is amazing and absolutely I'm sure at some point they're going to move to a paid model but it's been free It's all within Discord as well. You can or to generate in private come up to the Pika bot, click this member list button if you don't see Now you'll be able to DM the bot Use the create command, and for There is a parameter for frame rate if you want -fps and a number between 8 and 24 then aspect ratio is -ar That looks great but I hardly image-to-video is where it gets really powerful. I'll use the create command again, then I'll use the capybara playing and another parameter is camera it's -camera then I'll try to zoom in Click the plus one to add That looks awesome. So you can dial in to animate them and the possibilities are endless CapCut has a whole suite of AI tools that are bunch of different tools here, many of but the one I want to highlight is this video perfect for videos from Pika those are at I started using this recently and haven't seen any of the other tools. So currently this is the Those are some great video tools, but with an image. And before we jump into useful for any images you may have, ai or Most of the upscalers I come but there's two that are Replicate has a full suite of upscaling is under Super Resolution. You'll find a bunch of models for different will de-noise and smooth it out, others will add The other option I use in There's a ton of cool ones in here for touching night enhancement, or what I find [Music] Replicate is great for quick web-based upscaling computer that has the option to batch upscale, It's free, open source software you can download. It has multiple options to choose from of the time I like this real esran 4X want. I also like the digital art model that smooths it out a bit. If you regularly need and a lot of images that come out of Now for the cool this name on the list: Illusion Diffusion There's a ton of awesome ways to use make these really cool QR codes you may have seen, then Mr Ugleh figured out this workflow I love these look, it reminds me of... these, by Octavio Ocampo So yeah, I love this style. It's a ton They have some examples to use Illusion strength is how much the spiral will starting point. It depends on what you're Type in your prompt then click run. Timeframes will vary based on the time of day, it's usually around 30 seconds or less for me And that looks awesome. The illusion strength has the that's the main option I usually There are also some advanced options further but here's that same prompt run Instead of using their images you can upload A couple common ones are text, other cool patterns, logos, and faces and a lot of these you have see the illusion so keep that in Someone who went all out with they spent 14 hours doing this for You pause at any point and it's a normal There's so much that can be done, an video using a logo. I'll do the That comes back looking great. I did that [Music] Now for the text to image generators. There's a ton of options out there, The first three are pretty the last one is the most versatile with We'll start with Ideogram. If I click over onto this top tab you'll start to It's great with text based designs, logos, and the others for things like photo realism or When you type your prompt it will pop you can choose one if you want, or there's a couple aspect ratios It comes back with four options, if you can click remix and it will generate do that as many times as you want [Music] Dalle3 was just rolled out to Pro users have ChatGPT Pro. If not, you can use You just type your prompt and hit the best part is it's prompt understanding. You can get really specific with You get 25 free credits when you create an [Music] And now that we're in the text to image that's a really good option that is completely free to generate as much as you [Music] Stable Diffusion is open If you have a capable computer you can but that involves some technical Other platforms have been Stable Diffusion and make it much easier to use. For most of them the free plans are very limited, with a ton of features, and the free plan gives It's called Playground AI. It's a canvas-based platform where you have a It looks intimidating at first, These are all just from today under the free plan. When you're on the canvas you can your size and aspect ratio, under the anthropomorphic frog playing a banjo on the right are some options you I'll just use this one for On the left is where we can choose the style to whole workspace was basically just me testing out Hit generate and it goes pretty quick. And every one of these looks amazing [Music] Let's say I like this composition the image-to-image button will use adjust the strength over here. You Now I've got four more to choose from. That was all with the Haze style here's some [Music] So we've got some cool images but there's a lot style, these turned out awesome so I made a bunch. I didn't really prompt for scenery, I want to merge them. I can move the That combined them well but there right here. No worries, I'll just use the eraser. That doesn't look perfect, but I'm going This should look good, but I need to remove Then I'll drag it on here and make it look That's a fast and easy composite shot. So I'll select the whole thing then copy There are tons and tons of other a really good resource is their YouTube channel. Now that I've got this image, let's That's not bad, but I think there's just too images so I'm going to animate those I'll use the chirp command, and these They look like a prog rock band to me, then they're kind of cyborg-looking And actually, I think I have to do it... yep, I can't help myself [Music] Alright, this song is so good. I'm about to spend way too much time but I'll just use tools I covered in this video: Playground, Pika, and Suno [Music} In the swamp, where the shadows creep Legends rise from the waters deep Frogs transformed by wires and steel Cybernetic warriors ready to reveal Frog cyborgs, leaping strong and free With techno hearts, the future they decree Rocking the lily pads, like never before Frog cyborgs, an amphibious uproar [Guitar Solo] Frog cyborgs An amphibious uproar Amphibious uproar Now that I've got that song stuck in your head, if you want to stay up to date on all of the AI moves fast so a video like this can get and there's various filters to find If you want all of those tools and tips to subscribe to the newsletter while you're there. And then like, comment, subscribe, all that stuff