I'm trying to build a LEGO arcade filled with speed, and luck of these minifigures. world of the games to see if they can So the first game we'll be adding on the which was like the OG Crossy Road, and--actually? sorry let's bring in this girl named Valerie and has these hyper-realistic VR goggles so she we just connect them to the Frogger machine with busy roads, infested rivers, and an friends into the world, challenging them to But that... is easier said than done. The traffic section didn't have any better luck with all the and they're able to respawn back at the the entire squad made it across! Donovan, and finally Valerie. She's still Well that was a weird glitch. Anyways the first is the carpet, oddly enough. The patterns that I definitely wanted to recreate one in LEGO a bunch of studs in Val's colors (except I pieces will have to do) and spaced them out wow- *GAG* After taking a minute to lie down, we the games to go, like this next one: Tetris, the This set from second place is one of the only reason, *bahhh* which I stole to build real life are very satisfying to try and fit together Alright. That was a fun way to build the wall, arcades as a kid: the illustrious prize wall. and even LEGO sets as some of the top prizes that I was ever able to afford was all the cheap junk is dead set on winning that Minion plushie though, build this air hockey game in the center. These with handles they can grab onto and everything. satisfying, like these plates with holes in them minus the actual moles to go in the holes. And I just been chilling in what little forest right next to where I'm putting the arcade. field that the stadium left behind, but for now games. It was really fun designing it to look coins inside, and naming it "Pirate's Booty," but I quickly stopped having fun. I'm so bad at eventually had to give up and find a tutorial for it into my design. We got there in the end, you crank to move the pusher, but oh man. If I had don't think I'd ever finish this video, which race against my friend RJM Bricks. He's and he's gonna force ME to learn how to remake I can't be spending months struggling with not already, and go support RJM's racing game It's probably the last game that'll fit on this let's build the front wall with this sliding glass and add a second level, where we have probably Q*Bert. "!#?!" Translation: "Do I smell tacos?" "Q*Bert, this is No, the actual most iconic arcade game is of course Pac-Man, which cabinet for, as part of this secret arcade inside looks exactly like the real thing, with a movable mind-blowing mechanism using a chain that controls know how they did it, but it's amazing, and gives Wait, something's not right, maybe this was a Fozzie- *CHOMP* What the? That glitch that this horrifying monster, and he looks hungry. right? Right?" Oh no... RUN! "Ahhhhhhhh" but fruits didn't work and pellets only made found the ghosts cowering in the corner, and to make it back to Pac-Man before he caught to normal and the squad was released from its out there... Everyone begged Val that it was too She got ready for the next game while which has all its prizes printed around including an ultra-rare jackpot of 10,000 shot at winning that minion prize, so he began luck with that. Val's all set to go now with with these plastic gun attachments. Except now and who knows what else the glitch corrupts. Let's headset for her own safety; they weren't going Axel suggested instead of shooting zombies, that actually works, Cornelius offered to Benny continued gambling, and Weird Cat Girl but nothing they did helped take her mind off It was the day of the eSports world championship, in games like Valorant, Valheim, uh Valvoline team with her very first sponsorship: this new also got to try the prototype VR headset they were not realizing what it would do. But something her body and formed an exact replica of her! making erratic movements in the game, causing her cheating. She was shamed, humiliated, and outright every single league, except one: the Retro let's make a mark on the original so we can competing again is to somehow get good that upcoming tournament, and she needs as Let's just hope she knows what she's doing. she made it to the extra glitchy final boss. sort of hacker! They must be behind all this but the game instantly ended and booted her But with this floor now completed, let's build up right. Hey, Ralph?! Get up there and wreck it. we need Felix to fix it now. There we go. No, this amazing LEGO Ideas project by 2A2A. Massive this upper balcony is just so genius. I will be window? I- It's incredible. I'm so sad it didn't the Pac-Man set. But this slanted front side does so unfortunately I don't think I can fit this arcade cabinet piece from a LEGO Ninjago set. box I've ever seen, which we'd have even less Ken and Ryu minifigures for the game and-ah well, However we can fit this little strength test game rigged to be impossible. We cannot let Benny see it. And speaking of him down there, you may have but don't worry, I did think of that. We can just instead as like an elevator, so everyone uh... interesting artwork on the games we've built when I could on these designs, but making my everything except Pac-Man, and Defender, made. This one was included in some random LEGO but horizontal. Val's friends knew they couldn't they're coming with. Let's see if we can stop this the final video game. "!#?!" Translation: But before we get to that one, I wanted to use a classic 2x4 over to use the anti-stud tubes so big brain, I love it. Let's plop a roof on and add one of the little pixel art it all off. Boy oh boy. This is easily and now that it's complete, we're finally Donkey Kong. "ROAR!!!" "JUMP!" Guys this scene And with DK defeated, a burst of electricity the games. "NOOOOOOOO!" And we can finally find he was still salty about Val seemingly losing put an end to her Retro Arcade Cup training for actually ended up giving her even more practice beat the self-proclaimed Video Game Players so things worked out after all. By the way every ticket for poor little Benny, so please share your or literally anything else down below to help him