Remember this? &quot;The line will be home to 9 million And also this? &quot;Saudi Arabia's going to make a 20 billion dollar floating city in the red sea!&quot; Well, one day, the same country will also be hosting this: &quot;the World Cup fever&quot; , &quot;the world's best players&quot;, &quot;the World Cup final&quot; Oh yes, the world's greatest football tournament is coming to Saudi Arabia. It became the de facto host of the 2034 FIFA men's World Cup when Australia withdrew its announced with 11 stadiums being built from to bring them up to World Cup standards. Now channel and I'm definitely not a football expert, and the venues being built for this tournament bizarre to the brilliant here goes this is the team. Let's kick off with the Captain: The King the biggest stadium in Saudi Arabia and is the stadium the complex will feature a BMX track, green credentials it'll also feature 96,500 and parks. Although it's questionable just how scheme the size of Ellis Island in the middle one of eight stadiums that are being built those being restored is the king fard sports famous for its roof which is made of white fabric is intended to evoke the form of a Bedouin tent. Qatar's Al-Bayt Stadium for the 2022 tournament. Fahd sports city will be absolutely massive both other world cup or even Club level venues despite if that seems harsh then have a look at our two stadiums. Now if you've been paying attention over has become something of an unlikely champion of so these stadiums are something else the Roshn have an architect attached to it yet and instead out of the Earth all we really know is that it's big by Saudi standards but the whole site is is about the same size as the Vatican. But if Halo this is the prince Mohammed bin Sal man venue is formed of geometric blocks covered retractable which along with the futuristic one day become the home of Esports and drone of a cliff now these two venues could completely many of Saudi Arabia's so-called Giga projects actually look anything like their renders we've all the Wingers there's a danger of style of a sub expectation versus reality. Now let's just take a every possibility that the 2034 final could go the goalkeeper you could be feeling more than just experience you don't need to be a Star Striker mental health or to try therapy. Seeking guided and help give new perspectives on things opportunity to use a safe space to get things off mental health. This week's video's paid partner first step. It's a great platform that connects get started. Just fill in a questionnaire and in a couple of days. Their therapists are carefully questions their support team is there to help more comfortable talking to. Building up trust is reviews and a 4.5 rating on Trustpilot. If you're you can get started today, click the link in the also get 10% off your first month of therapy. stadiums. We're on much more stable ground with of venues by Stadium heavyweights Populace and on the new Real Madrid stadium, the Santiago is unique in that it's the only Stadium designed developments of mixed use buildings which erase the flat Brown rooves and whitewashed walls not the only Stadium inspired by traditional tent-like walls the Prince Faisal bin Fahd Sports City uses motives found in traditional Central Saudi on eight venues for this tournament another of in 2015 13,000 seats are being added to increase stadiums but it's rock solid and along with the Finishing our defensive lineup is the New Murabba isn't deterred by the lack of an architect. Again it doesn't look like anything else on Earth but Its finish is inspired by the bark of an acacia tree the stadium is surrounded by huge buildings this Behemoth in goal because it's huge, rock bit crazy. So are any of these actually being venues two are currently under construction and hang hang over a lot of them but none more so Stadium. In a crowded field this is perhaps will sit on top of the line Saudi Arabia's it'll be the highest stadium in the world tall linear skyscraper but that's a very big commentators have been trying to work out just of construction footage have been released but the city, along with other Giga projects, were we've got some pretty major questions about how match organizers intend to quickly get 46,000 venues use their size to disperse crowds and even with this we've seen some serious issues years we're going to turn now to the chaos the crowd was eventually allowed to proceed ground. Right now it's hard to see how any stadium this. Coming back down to earth it's time complete Fahd Sports City are two stadiums named after the the Striking Qiddiya Coast Stadium. Now the KAEC planned for the Red Sea Coast near Jeddah, with also in Jeddah the KACC was completed in 2014 and is these stadiums not because there's anything to their teammates there's nothing particularly substitution pretty controversial. You see, the large fins are designed to resemble a Mexican the Region's cultural developments construction it's often the way with World Cups that they get then not really used afterwards but after the for this venue. The top tier of seats is going and the stadium's being fitted with a retractable it into an Esports arena, concert venue, and much Stadium it's another venue by Populus and like the Salmani architecture. It's sleek but practical and midfielder and saving the very best to last no This is the Aramco stadium designed by Populus, structures which were inspired by the whirl pools and staircases follow this spiraling form which bowl. This shape ensures uninterrupted views of create natural ventilation. The headcount can be concerts like any good striker it's got style While it's perhaps a bit hard to believe that some built, the Aramco stadium already has dates in its But no amount of iconic architecture will be able Arabia's human rights record, which its construction year the Building and Woodworkers International it described as forced labor among migrant workers, work. In addition to this the BBC revealed earlier use lethal force while clearing land allocated for Cup stadiums really are off the charts but the but one of construction, if the venues do meet World Cup in history. Whatever this tournament the expectations hopes and aspirations are all football. This video was sponsored by that at the link below. Don't forget that Stadium Builders through our investment into service. You can learn more and get And as always guys if you enjoyed this definitive video channel for construction,