Hello! I'm Aoi. Elementary school meat sauce Today's menu is AoisMagicalRecipes The meat sauce in the nursery Elementary school meat sauce I've had a lot of people make it for me. We will be using canned cut tomatoes for elementary school meat sauce The nursery school version is sweeter and the elementary school version is more acidic. This time, &quot;elementary school lunch The seasoning is the same as for children in day-care centers. If you just take care of the quantity and serve it... Children in daycare are welcome to join in the fun. Okay, let's get right to it. Let's make it! It's been a long time (laughs) A! Cod. four Ma ki at 00:01:18.02,00:01:19.05 Le Ne n 00:01:18.02,00:01:19.02,00:01:19.05 h V Sa ! Cod. four 00:01:19.05,00:01:20.08 ki at 00:01:19.05,00:01:20.08 Le Ne n 00:01:19.05,00:01:19.05,00:01:20.08 h V Sa ! Cod. four Ma yellow at 00:01:20.08,00:01:21.18 Le Ne n n h V Sa Definitely register! Definitely register! Definitely register! First, chop the veggies Step 1 - Cut vegetables Elementary meat sauce We're going to use a vegetable cutter this time, so We're going to cut them into smaller pieces and put them inside Celery or eringi, depending on the school. We often put in a lot of different vegetables. 00:01:51.26,00:01:54.26 I'm going to make it easy this time. I'm going to make it with simple vegetables, onions and carrots. I miss this one too. I've been using an electric vegetable cutter lately, so When the video of the meat sauce in the nursery I did it this way to make it easier for you all to see. Because at the time, the camera couldn't see what was underneath. And if you did it like this Commented on... Please put him down because he is dangerous. I'm doing it for entertainment (laughter) After this, we're going to heat it in the microwave for a moment Put it in a heatproof bowl We're going to saute the onions with it You don't have to wash these. We're going to continue to cut the onions as well. We're going to mince the onions as well, so we're going to chop them very finely. Put them in the chopper in chunks Damn... It's gonna break (laughs) Onions are also put in the same bowl as the carrots Step 2 - Microwave heating Elementary meat sauce We're going to do some heating after this. Q.Why do school lunches taste so good? But it's difficult to heat them slowly at home. Especially if you're like me... Cooking while watching a 2 year old is really hard (laughs) So this time, it's &quot;for home use.&quot; Once heated in the microwave and then pan-fried... And that way, the frying time is very, very short. Once we're done, we'll go ahead and heat it in the microwave. Add the oil to the heatproof bowl we just used and mix Blend everything together Wrap it softly. Leave a little bit of a gap Let's heat it up. 10 minutes in the microwave at 600w Long microwave heating time And in the meantime, my hands are free, so I can wash dishes while I'm at it, and so on. Or make side dishes, or just lie down and rest. Use that kind of time. The microwave is done heating It's very wilted. The degree of heating depends on the model of the microwave oven. 00:04:21.00,00:04:24.26 The heating time also changes when the amount is increased 00:04:27.20,00:04:31.02,00:04:31.02 Step 3 - fry Elementary meat sauce I microwaved some onions and carrots. Put them in a frying pan and fry them over medium heat We don't add oil because the oil has already been mixed in It can burn depending on the pan. If it looks like it's going to burn, add more oil and fry it I heat it in the microwave, but I still think that once you fry it in the pan It brings out the flavor of the vegetables and makes them tastier. If you omit this, it is a &quot;thin&quot; meat sauce... It's not very rich, so... I heat it in the microwave, but I also fry it. We fry the onions and carrots for 3 to 4 minutes over medium heat, and then we put them in the microwave for a few minutes. Add the ground meat. Stir-fry the ground meat until it changes color I was just going through the process of frying onions and carrots. If you don't use a microwave oven, it takes about 15 minutes... If you don't fry them slowly, the sweetness doesn't come out as well. By using a microwave oven It only takes three minutes to fry, so it's a very shortcut. I coded it wrong! I put the ground meat in, and then I put it on low heat... After adding minced meat, fry over low heat Looks delicious. 00:05:55.12,00:05:55.13,00:05:55.14 I know a lot of schools make it with just minced pork Fatigue-relieving vitamins High in vitamin B1 Pork -. A lot of oxygen-carrying iron Beef -&gt; Whether made with minced pork alone or ground pork Either way, it's delicious. I don't know if I like the taste or... Like, &quot;I'm going to have the aibibi today because I want to get the nutrients from this side...&quot; You can let them decide like that. When you have time The longer you fry it, the more the moisture goes out of it, and the longer you fry it, the more the moisture goes out of it. the more concentrated the flavor of the vegetables becomes. It really makes it taste good. So when I have time, carrots and onions are I recommend taking a little more time to fry them When they've loosened up I forgot to add the garlic. And then you put the minced meat and the garlic and you fry it. You look a little blurry today. I can't put garlic in the nursery. I forgot to cod... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'll add some water. Step 4 - Simmering Elementary meat sauce Now we're going to simmer it Ketchup. Medium-concentrated sauce. Canned tomatoes. And salt and pepper. A little pepper From here, simmer over low heat for about 15 minutes to remove the acidity and mellow the flavor And then we'll cook it for a while... I've heard of a good meat sauce for school lunches... Especially when it's really, really heated. Stir fry well and cook well - bring out the best flavor So we don't skip the stewing time, we do it well. While the meat sauce is simmering, let's cook the spaghetti Let it simmer, stirring occasionally Step 5 - Boil the spaghetti Elementary meat sauce Now I will boil the spaghetti I think when you boil spaghetti, you boil it with salt What does it mean to put salt in the water? (To make it al dente (just the right consistency), and To season the spaghetti And sometimes they put it in school lunches, and sometimes they don't. I personally don't want to eat salt. I often make it without it. So, it's your choice, but I would recommend that you make it without it if it's for children. Spaghetti, for elementary school students, you can boil the spaghetti according to the number of minutes on the bag. 00:08:50.13,00:08:51.21,00:08:51.21 Busy, busy, busy. Me, I used to fold and boil the nursery version. I'm probably the first person on this channel to boil them long. So I'm not very good at putting them in. After it's boiled, I drain it in a colander Add oil (not included in the quantity) to prevent sticking and blend in. After about 15 minutes of simmering, the water has evaporated and the sauce is ready to be used. Step 6 - Finish - Serve Elementary meat sauce Like this It becomes thick and thick And then we turn off the heat and... The tomato flavor, once it's cooled down, the flavor will come in more and more. I recommend that you cool it down and reheat it. Now your elementary school meat sauce is ready! Okay, everybody, please put your hands together! Together Bon appetit! Elementary school version (laughs) I thought they didn't have a song about elementary school. School song? You don't sing the school song? Thank you very much! Just a little... What's the word? A broken spoon? I can't scoop at all. School lunch kore... I can only get two or three... I'm so coded... I can't get it. I'm crying I don't know what to do. It's not very nice. Isn't it difficult? This one Delicious! Compared to the nursery, the tomatoes are more acidic, so... Because it has a more refreshing taste compared to that If you think the nursery is too sweet, I think you'll like this better. If there's any leftover meat sauce I'll put it on bread with lettuce and make a meat sandwich. I put this and cheese on top of boiled and mashed potatoes and bake it. It's also good as a meat gratin. Meat sauce has been in school lunches since about 1930-1940, apparently. Back then, on the days when meat sauce was in the school lunch I heard it was said that fewer children would miss school That's how popular it was, apparently. Do you want some cod? Is your head (in the camera)? Elementary school taste Do you eat it? I just had lunch, so... If you're going to play, give it to me. If you don't eat it, no. Elementary school version Really good! It's easy to make and very tasty. I hope you will all try it! You want some? I don't want it! I'm gone! Thank you very much!