I'll be very afraid to hear or the sound of cars braking I'm someone who loves to doll myself up I couldn't overcome my self-doubts I'll try to cover up my scars I'm afraid that people will stare at my scars I'll try to avoid... passing by that stretch of road... and reliving it all over again A fatal accident occurred A BMW burst into flames The 29-year-old driver and four passengers It's understood that the driver's fiancee in an attempt to rescue him I'm Raybe Oh I ran into a sea of fire... in an attempt The fire was massive... and it would be dangerous You can't afford When I touched the car door, the fire spread After I got burnt, I ran to the building across the street I kept shouting their names, but there was no response at all I could only look on as I sat and watched everything unfold The ambulance arrived very quickly I still remember telling the paramedics, &quot;Don't call my mother! &quot;I don't want her to be worried&quot; At the time, I hadn't realized that and that my life was in danger I don't remember what happened after that I'm Janna Joethy I was the senior consultant plastic surgeon That year, I was on call I had a call from the hospital Obviously, at that point, I turned up to see her She could become She had extensive burns In her case, I was Raybe's As soon as she came into the hospital, we took her to an operation She was sedated, and we gave her We wanted to prevent her Without so much of a skin on board, it was very likely that A small infection can trigger you off Anyone with that level of burns, that percentage of burns, I would say, the survival chances are low I'm Raybe's mother, Tjan Bie Hon At the time, I was fast asleep... and I was woken up by a call The person on the other end of the line &quot;Your daughter has been in an accident &quot;Can you come down to the hospital?&quot; I broke down there and then I started crying We rushed down to the hospital The doctor told me that she was in a coma &quot;Your daughter's life is in danger&quot; I fainted and collapsed upon hearing that In those 13 days, she was struggling to pull through It was too heartbreaking then I was very heartbroken For her to be burnt that severely, getting through each day in the ICU The nurse told me that... she could pass on at any time in the ICU As her daughter's life hangs on a thread, Raybe's mother could only wait in agony The memories of her daughter Raybe is the eldest daughter in the family She has always been She came from Johor, Malaysia, and enjoyed singing since she was a child She pursued her studies in Singapore and performed at getai shows She even participated It's our Raybe! Blessed with a good voice and pretty face, she worked as an air stewardess previously However, the fire from the car accident I was really in a lot of pain I was hurting all over When I looked at myself, I was completely bandaged up At the time, I thought of... why they wanted to save me I would be disfigured anyway... because a large part of my body I had already lost my boyfriend and friends My life had changed completely I felt that it was better to not save me Why save me? I'll have to suffer in agony However, the moment I saw my mother, all these negative thoughts disappeared It wasn't for me I had to stay strong and hang in there After fighting for her life Raybe was transferred at the Burn Centre at SGH In the four months she was in hospital, she underwent debridement I'm Associate Professor Ong Yee Siang I'm currently the head of... Plastic, Reconstructive Burns are divided into three classifications Third-degree burns completely destroy They might even destroy Burnt areas from second Otherwise, there may be This puts their life in danger If 80 percent of the patient's skin we'll have to make use of donated skin... or artificial skin However, these are temporary measures We'll have to wait for the areas to use the skin from these areas... to salvage the burnt areas It's a long-drawn process The patient has to Every week, I had to go under I'll be taken to the operating theatre... because they are unable to change the gauze I'd be in extreme pain if I were conscious Sometimes, I'd be in a lot of pain It hurt so much that I cried I did feel quite hopeful I'd feel that I got better I was finally discharged It felt really good being back home However, I couldn't overcome my self-doubts That's because I know that... things won't be the same as before It's time for lunch, Raybe What's for lunch today? I cooked your favourite salmon When I was discharged from the hospital, I had some mobility issues I even needed my mother to help me shower At the time, I really felt that... she had to care for me like a baby... even though I'm already a grown-up I felt... terrible about it Let me change the compression garment for you It's very uncomfortable You must wear it even if it's uncomfortable You have no choice Your condition has improved I wonder how long I'll have to wear this for -You'll wear it until your scar fades My mother has been She doesn't express her love through words If I fell down as a child, she'll scold me and ask why I fell down again However, I know that Let me massage your scars After suffering severe burns, I have scars all over my body These scars are very hard They will affect my joints... and cause them to harden The physiotherapist taught my mother so she was more hardworking than me I never thought of it as something tough I just wanted her to get better I'm more than happy enough that... she was able to leave the hospital Previously, in the ICU, I loved it It was very cold in the ICU... and your hands were very warm My mother's hands felt very warm I'll remember that feeling When you were in the ICU, I couldn't touch any part of your body because your body was all bandaged up I could only touch the soles of your feet I could only move my legs back then It's been three years since the accident Raybe went from being unable to being able to leave the house However, she hasn't reached Raybe still has to return to undergo laser scar removal The recovery process is more difficult, harder and longer They get hypertrophic scars... and their scars get very itchy They find it difficult to face the society These are some They need to have In the first few months many patients will have depression Many of them feel a sense of inferiority They don't dare to face Psychological recovery compared to physiological recovery The biggest difference between them... is the patient's willpower They must be willing I can only... get better from here It's impossible to recover to the point... of who I was before The hardest thing to get used to having to accept the new me I would sometimes feel that... I would constantly look back such as videos of myself singing I would long for my past self... and wanted to be who I was before I'll then feel... very upset and heartbroken It feels like I can't do anything any more I can't sing, nor can I wear the clothes I'm all covered up... because I can't expose I'm afraid that people will stare at my scars I used to be a very confident person However, after the accident, I developed a sense of inferiority In the last two years, you could say that my life I was in my prime, in my best years I was at my peak physically, I had a stable career... and someone I loved I had no family issues I was living my best life basically However, everything was taken I'm still reconciling with myself... because... I'm still unable During this process, I received a lot of encouragement Wynn Lim whom she met while studying in Singapore After the accident, she'll look for Raybe at her home every one to two months I had never imagined that would happen to such a good friend of mine Honestly speaking, chat with her and listen to her troubles Perhaps, there are some things I hope to be able I bought this because I know you'll like it I like the Daruma doll -I hope you get one At the time, I didn't dare to ask her... anything about the accident Instead, she brought it up herself She asked me if I attended Jonathan's wake She asked about what happened there And... I feel conflicted because on one hand, On the other hand, I'm very happy because... she has truly accepted this situation It's only through accepting it that... you can better face it and move on from it They'll remove some fats from this area I see The doctor previously did skin grafting He transferred the fats and so on I remember that I was trying It was then that I realized that you cannot do They'll extract from this area Initially, I thought it was just her skin and she'd have many surgeries Everyone knew this However, I never knew that it I remember that her left side She couldn't even raise let alone reach her hands or changing her clothes on her own To see her being able and do things that I feel very happy for her Honestly speaking, no matter how positive I am, I wouldn't have made it if it wasn't for my family, friends... and the team of medical professionals They gave me a lot of strength That's why I'm able to be so brave... and face my life head-on Bidding farewell to the past Raybe broke free after two years of rest and rehabilitation She's now in search Upon her friend's invitation, she joined her friend's beauty salon... where she works as a marketing designer You can list down all the treatments here It's very clear... and they can find the treatments Through her new job, Raybe has gradually I'll go back I'll get it ready at home This new career... makes me feel that I'm still useful It pushes me to prove myself to others What's this? Stepping out of her comfort zone she seeks advice from her friend and explores various possibilities Actually, I've always wanted I want to support my family It's something that's very satisfying to me However, I would always be afraid I didn't dare to risk failures After the accident, I felt that... if I don't do it right now, then when? Having had a close brush with death, This belief has pushed Raybe... towards her dream and establishing a clothing business Using artificial intelligence tools online, she learnt to use different colours... and designed her own unique swimwear She hopes to give others the strength As my skin can't be exposed to sunlight... and I don't want others to see my scars, I had this idea... to design... a more conservative swimwear collection No matter what scars you have... or whether you're conscious or whether you're a more conservative person, it shouldn't take away your right Raybe's goals for her future It has also allowed her... to pack up her luggage Through travelling solo... and spending more time by myself, I hope to calm myself down, have more dialogues with myself... and become more independent Having travelled during my recovery, it reminded me of the little blessings I went to Bali... and saw one of the most beautiful sunsets When I saw how beautiful it was, I shed a tear I felt that... this world is really beautiful The wonders of travelling... have helped Raybe and feel blessed Though her life can no longer she can face it with more courage now She used to be a getai singer, but she can only be Looking at the stage she once stood on, she has mixed emotions... but she has never thought I miss being able to doll and dress up, performing on stage... and receiving applause I still need to go for surgery so I'll always have fresh wounds Therefore, it's very difficult When my treatment ends, I hope to put in the effort to exercise, and to retrain Then, I hope that... if anyone wants to hear me sing, I can return to the stage Raybe is still on the path However, the eternal separation I'm now able to accept the fact that... my boyfriend is no longer around I'm slowly moving on On his birthday every year, I'll meet his family... and we'll go out for a meal together We'll still treat it At the time, I ran into the sea of fire... in an attempt to rescue them, but I didn't succeed I've never regretted doing that If I didn't do that, I think I'll feel even more regretful I don't want to live with that regret He'll always have a special place in my life He was someone very important to me It's a lifelong regret Life may be full of ups and downs, but I'll always feel that... everything happens for a reason I don't reject I'll let nature take its course All your experiences are part of your story Whether they're good or bad, they're important chapters in your life Subtitles: CaptionCube