This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Sign up for the CuriosityStream/Nebula bundle an exclusive companion video diving deeper The first thing to know about the art market Despite its prominence in cinema, literature, composed of a small collection of dealers of ultra-rich clientele. Each year, on average, $61.9 billion of art $61.9 billion is a big number, but not in $61.9 billion is what Walmart, for example, The global market of tomatoes generates $190 as art. There are single companies with greater annual of: AXA, the Centene Corporation, Exor, the is smaller than each of these. The second thing to know about the art market Over the past decade, 82% of sales, by value, That's to say, the global art market is London, and Hong Kong. But the consolidation doesn't end there. 43% of art dealers, nearly half, had fewer Their sale and buyer numbers can be as limited sense when comparing the sale prices of the Unsurprisingly, this means that power in the One study found that 30% of solo exhibitions of success, featured artists represented by Once you move into the upper echelons of the During the studied period, eleven out of twelve one of the world's preeminent art museums, same five galleries. So, to summarize, the key features of this knowing anything more, an economist could ripe for exploitation and corruption. But that's just theory. To understand where the malpractice occurs, art sales work. Nearly three decades ago, in 1994, artist shows of his career. For this, he created a series of nude portraits--a in his archetypical style. Now, in order to translate his work into income, Gallery. This was no surprise, as Castelli and his pop-art icon. Three decades prior, Castelli had presented The two had formed a professional relationship as an assistant art professor at Rutgers University commercial success. He was, of course, correct, as every single This skyrocketed Lichtenstein's career. Overnight, he was transformed from, essentially, commercially-successful, professional artist. So, for all intents and purposes, Castelli Therefore, Lichtenstein stuck with Castelli that 1994 exhibition--entitled "Nudes: As is common in the high-end art world, it's history of given works, but we know that one was sold by the Castelli Gallery to a private Goodman Gallery to a private collector in new owner. That new owner then decided, in 2020, to sell Therefore, they contacted Christie's. Now, Christie's and it's primary competitor, in the art market. They're auction houses, and facilitate the art. Of the ten highest priced sales in 2020, eight Their process starts with an appraisal. Each auction house employs in-house experts sell for, and present a range--a lower number Then, assuming they want to move forward, agree to a reserve price--a number equal under which they will not sell the piece, Typically, with higher-end sales, however, to use their services by guaranteeing the for the lower end of the estimate, even if On the other end of the spectrum, the auction is sold above the upper estimate to incentivize in contract negotiations with the seller. The seller also pays a percentage fee, supposedly as low as 2% for higher-priced works, although highly subject to negotiation as auction houses The bulk of the auction house's money is They pay, on top of the final sale price, At most Christie's auction houses, it's up to $6,000,000, then 14.5% on sales above This is all to say, when Christie's or Sotheby's lists for 10s of millions of dollars, they make the sale. Roy Lichtenstein's Nude with Joyous Painting A deceased, highly commercially successful towards the end of its artist's career--there knew it. Therefore, they scheduled its auction to take Under the constraints of the COVID-19 pandemic, one of 2020's biggest auctions. While each of their auctions typically occur their Hong Kong, Paris, London, and New York global, live-streamed auction. Now, of the 79 lots put up for auction, the Wong appraised between $60,000 and $80,000. Most were well into the millions, and this Christie's, Sotheby's, and other auction works together into a few yearly auctions, events for the art world. Their job is essentially the marketing--they're for the sale of a given piece--so they'll of buyers, talking to the press, and exhibiting Then, after almost all of the work is completed, In this case, the event started with Hong Their auctioneer, live-streamed to the world, passing the torch to Paris, from where 15 Then, it moved onto London, where hammer prices and finally, it was New York's turn. Saving the best for last, all of the true This included Picasso's, Basquiat's, Calder's, the Lichtenstein. Bidding opened on Nude with Joyous Painting That was quickly pushed up to 22, 26, 28, Two anonymous bidders from New York, aided house, pushed the price up by half-million Kong swooped in and bid $37 million. One of the New York bidders responded with came back with 38.2. It went to 38.5, 39, 39.5, 40, before the no response, and the auctioneer's hammer art sale of the year. With fees, the buyer ended up paying $46,242,500, from the 10 minute and 14 second long auction. Across the evening, though, some $421 million That means this one, four-hour event, and of the entire world's art sales in 2020, earned upwards of $60 million. So... where's the problem? So far, most of this process probably seems people buying and selling expensive art through Well, its not so much the process itself, Most of the issues arise out of a simple truth--art Say you stopped by a thrift store, saw this no price tag, no information at all beyond How much would you pay for it? Some would only spare twenty or thirty dollars, age, might pay a couple hundred dollars for This is roughly what happened in 1958 when as a poorly-maintained copy of a lost work Minnie and Warren Kuntz. The couple carried the painting with them for Houston to return from their European In 1987, the artwork was inherited by Kuntz's his Baton Rouge, Louisiana home until his His daughter, Susan Hendry Tureau, brought estate to the New Orleans Auction Gallery, $1,200 to $1,800. It was bought for an unknown amount less than Parrish and Robert Simon, who had a long-shot that. They therefore hired a paintings conservator of her process, she took infrared photographs layers of paint. This unearthed the lowest layer, which included took to outline the general composition of These first strokes largely matched up with They outlined the thumb in a straight position, copies of the lost Da Vinci painting. It seemed that the artist changed their mind, These few, hidden strokes served as a crucial, be the original Salvator Mundi, painted by Therefore, Parrish and Simon spent the better showing the piece to experts and curators, In 2011, they attained definitive validation: Salvator Mundi and the name on the label read The value instantly skyrocketed. Parrish and Simon sold the piece to another it to a Russian collector for $127 million, Only the 24th known painting widely attributed by a museum, this was sure to fetch an eye-popping After a world tour of exhibitions, Leonardo's York for $450,312,500 to Saudi Crown Prince for the sale of a piece of art. Prior to the recognition by top museums that was in the low thousands. After, it was in the hundreds of millions. That's to say, art has no intrinsic value. The value for what Christie's, Sotheby's, who painted it, who owned it, and who wants An uninformed person can look at a car, or some accuracy what it's worth, but that's Nearly all of the value is invisible, because willing to pay. Now, here's the question: would you genuinely portrait of Jesus at the estate auction in the National Gallery in London that it was Do you believe that if, back in 1960, Roy you could have successfully convinced enough to sell out his first show prior to opening? Any answer but no is arrogant. Value in the art world is defined by an incredibly gallery owners, and auctioneers. So, to summarize, the art world is an incredibly prices are almost entirely subjective. These three factors combined mean that, properly Between 2005 and 2013, one fourth of all Andy by a single man: Jose Mugrabi. Now, Mugrabi owns over 800 Warhol artworks dollars in value, at least on paper. Therefore, Mugrabi is highly, highly invested hot. Now, there is, of course, a reason why in are disallowed: when power is too concentrated, to their own benefit. That's exactly what Mugrabi does: whenever be there. Often, Mugrabi will be one of the first to his early offers. Mugrabi is more than willing to strategically that it'll be worth it. That's because auctions act as the only When one private individual sells artwork not public-knowledge. When one private individual sells artwork So, that means that Mugrabi is willing to of actual market value. Either he'll have pushed up the price for he'll have overpaid for the art, which is That's because either way, the fact that world knows it pushes up the hypothetical he can then sell for more in private. What's more, this manner of market manipulation Collectors will chose a niche, and then dominate Plus, given the small size of the high-end all the other top Warhol collectors, and collectively, publicly for a bad price, it'll hurt all social cabal arises that further influences However, this is only the tip of the iceberg. The same market conditions that enable Mugrabi's are confoundingly easy. There isn't one, blockbuster scam at the center Rather, it's a market composed of scams. For example, counterintuitively, wealthy individuals It's rather simple: in the US, when one get a tax-write off. That's to say, if someone donates a painting taxes on $10 million of income which, in theory, Of course, given the difficulties in determining artwork to be professionally appraised prior Considering all the aforementioned market an appraisal to go one's way. Of the hundreds of thousands of artworks donated but even those few paint a stark picture. In 2018 and 2019, about a third of audited appraisal by an average of 38%. In fact, overall, only 42% of artwork was part thanks to the competing pressure for through inheritance, in order to reduce the So, a rich person could buy a piece of art years, shop around for a favorable appraisal, the IRS only audits a tiny percentage of pieces, have already broken even. It doesn't take much for the percentage their original purchase price. As a cherry on top, of course, the presence to inflate the value of their other art, so given artist's work, as is common, donations it has on the rest of their collection. In aggregate, the situation is this: art is It was created by rich people, for rich people, Whether its tax avoidance, money laundering, all. Despite this, it's almost entirely unregulated. There are no official records of who owns impossible to prove any malpractice in the It's a largely lawless market, except for able to spend millions to enter it. So, who loses out? Well, for one, artists. Rich people use artwork like trading cards--coveting excludes those who are unable to persuade don't fit the galleries' vision of a marketable Art is no longer an exercise of skill, it's Warhol's are like Supreme, but for the wealthiest Who also loses out is us: everyone who is sinking millions of dollars into a single, We lose out because we can't conduct the through Sotheby's doors. We can access the stock market, where tax are heavily regulated and monitored, but not unnoticed. The reality is that any market can be exploited, The difference here is that art is a unique the influence to manipulate the market, and Everything you've heard so far is about enables, but it also makes illegal actions easy. As much as I wanted to talk about that, as far too long. Therefore, as usual, I made an exclusive Nebula for those who found this video particularly I was able to do that because Nebula, unlike publishing a video that only the most engaged Nebula was founded and is owned by creators, content, with no ads and a financial model big-budget Nebula Originals. We've also made sure that Nebula is the by partnering with CuriosityStream. Now, when you sign up for any subscription to Nebula too. That means, for the cost of a fancy cheeseburger, Nebula, and all of CuriosityStream, including film, telling the true story a famed British against ISIS in Syria. Considering you get both Nebula and CuriosityStream other streaming services, you can tell why even while getting that amazing deal, you'll Nebula creators. So, click the button on-screen or head to the bundle deal today.