Ladies and gentlemen, Zote the Mighty. Arguably one of the most complex and developed In fact, Zote has more dialogue than any character much more than Seer, Lemm or Elderbug. But despite all of this dialogue, Zote is Debates over his origins and impact on the redditors alike. There are so many questions. Where did Zote come from? Where is he going? Who are his parents? Where was Zote on 9/11? Why won't he submit to a polygraph test? Is he hittin' thank? Well, today, we're going to get to the bottom Because what the fuck else would we be doing Zote shows up in the game pretty early. He is established as a comic relief character, save him while also proclaiming that he is Eventually the Knight fights Zote in the Coliseum It's like shooting a fucking dog, jesus So yeah, Zote's a joke, and yet there's storm for those of us trying to understand Zote looks an awful lot like the Knight, more This is kind of a big deal. If you don't know why this is important, The Knight is basically one of several hundred and Queen of Hallownest in order to stop Mothra locked away in the basement because they had So the fact that the Knight has several siblings has led to some interesting theories. And the idea that Zote is one of these failed If you go to the Hollow Knight Wiki page, go to get their information, you can see that So I'm not making this shit up. So yeah, that's the big question. Some people think that Zote is one of the And the others say that Zote is completely So what's my shitty opinion? Well, I think that Zote is probably unrelated The idea that Zote came from the Abyss just his dialogue. But, in case you didn't know, I'm the of an argument before continuing to cling the evidence for why Zote is a sibling. Now remember when I said that Zote has the Well, while that is true, most of his dialogue After finishing his sidequests, Zote winds Precepts. And most of these Precepts are either common Like Precept Forty-four that says you can't Or Precept Nineteen that says only to attempt Or Precept Thirty-eight that talks about a Wait, what?! [X-Files theme intensifies] But within Zote's dialogue, we do see a Basically, Zote has daddy issues. During the fight in the Colosseum, Zote has "I'll kill a thousand more...Will that Zote mentions the word "Father" again The precept is titled "Beware the Jealousy Zote explains in the precept that fathers them, and that fathers should be either vanquished The use of the word "serve" here is interesting. This word appears when the Knight dream nails King's void constructs. Zote also mentions that mothers will always "Mothers Will Always Betray You". And we know that the White Lady isn't exactly of the Vessels, maybe because she also views Geez, sounds like Zote had a really bad father. Hey, you know who was a bad father? The Pale King! Zote is the Pale King's son confirmed! Well, not so fast. What about the fact that Zote has a personality? Aren't vessels supposed to be completely Isn't that the whole point? There are two explanations for this. The first is that it is possible for siblings know that Hornet is a sibling. The second argument is that maybe Zote was Pale King didn't know how to make Vessels So in other words, Zote is just a really fucked Since we don't know much about the finer it's hard to argue the second point, but Hornet was not created with the intention She was a gift to Herrah from the Pale King infection. And no reason is given to explain why Zote rest of the Siblings. Precept Twenty-Two also fits in nicely with Zote mentions that he left his birthplace He says not to linger there, since there's And I'll admit, the Abyss doesn't sound There's also this dialogue from Zote. He mentions that Dirtmouth is dreary and ghastly, I think you could interpret this dialogue it seems relevant. If this was all the information we had to then this theory would actually be pretty But once we look at some of Zote's other this theory. Before I get into what I think the biggest things. The Hunter's Journal entry for the Broken bugs of Hallownest. So, it sounds like the Vessels themselves appearance. Bugs like Elderbug are probably what the Hunter Elderbug has a shell with features similar The Knight, Hornet and the other siblings still talk? [X-Files theme intensifies as mossbag realizes that calling Hornet a Vessel doesn't actually make sense] So maybe Zote and Elderbug are the same species, a coincidence. Anyways, here's the one big problem with Void. If the player character dream nails Zote once that he "came to this kingdom". So Zote is not originally from Hallownest, Hallownest. At this point, we're going to have to talk The problem is, we basically know jackshit While the player is never able to leave Hallownest the outside world, thanks to the Quirrel comic backers. This comic follows Quirrel as he makes his The comic starts off by establishing that They shed their thoughts and chose to rely This jives pretty nicely with the lore tablet During his journey, Quirrel comes across Boon speech. Quirrel eventually makes it to Hallownest Hornet tried to murder his ass, but discovers armor and decides to let him pass into Hallownest. So what's going on with this guy? Quirrel Quirrel lived in Hallownest, but eventually But in this comic, as well as during most of his previous time within the kingdom. Why was Quirrel's memory forgotten? Is it because the sands of the wilderness him a while to remember? Does leaving Hallownest cause bugs to lose Is Quirrel's memory loss entirely unrelated Well, to better understand this, let's look during the game. Aside from Quirrel and Zote, Tiso, Cloth, to Hallownest from some other location. All of these characters seem to have all of They never suddenly remember things long forgotten, they have never lost their memories the same Cloth and Tiso are two other Kickstarter backer during the game. Admitly neither character outright claims it's heavily implied. Cloth is a cicada-type warrior with a big that she mentions throughout the game. Cloth was designed by a Kickstarter backer She was originally a male character named Team Cherry changed Burlap's name after in Hallownest. Not sure why they changed his gender though. I guess it's just Team Cherry trying to our throats. Tiso was created by Tiso Spencer, and his the final game. In the Team Cherry post that revealed Tiso, an interesting conclusion, and well... he Tiso travels to Hallownest because he wants he has heard rumors about. Tiso's knowledge of the Colosseum of Fools these characters still have their memories. Then there's Iselda and Cornifer. Cornifer mentions that he moved to Dirtmouth the Kingdom of Hallownest. You know, this being Cornifer's kingdom he draws is so fucking shitty, but that's Iselda also mentions that she used to be a But this dialogue might be hinting at a future But anyway, the point is, these two bugs must the start of the game So yeah, there are examples of intelligent As for Quirrel, the best we can say is that and his time back in Hallownest helped him So, where does that leave Zote? Is he like Quirrel, or is he like the others? If he was from Hallownest before and lost about Hallownest during his quest? Is it because he's not as inquisitive as Maybe, but doesn't it seem more likely that world? Zote has specific memories about his past, There isn't any evidence that Zote has lost has ever been to Hallownest before. So yeah, this "I came to this kingdom" So why include all this dialogue about Zote's Zote and the Pale King? Does Team Cherry just like getting their jimmies confused as hell? Well, it might have been included as just While they both have fathers who probably Best Dad" mugs at Christmas,the Knight continues his family and lives a life of self absorption. So yeah, I think that pretty much sums up If I missed anything, which I definitely did, the record straight in the comments, so go And like I said before this is just my interpretation It's definitely one of those things in the definitely change by adding more stuff in And who knows, maybe one day we'll get a again.