- There's concern about - The racial wealth gap is stark. - The racial wealth gap is tremendous. - The gap between white and Black America. - What is the racial wealth gap, and why is everyone talking about it? The racial wealth gap is a between racial groups in the U.S. Here's a prime example. Black families make up but own only 5% of American wealth while white households make but control 80% of the wealth. The gap traces back to the which led to freedom for almost By 1860, their labor accounted $200 million a year where Black Americans received nothing. No land, no money. Without any money or land, how could newly free Black One way could have been Alexander Hamilton, the said that banking is But Black Americans were from using banks. So what happens when a community is barred from the mainstream banking system? They create their own. (upbeat music) Yeah - Black banks are supposed to So what happened? For almost 200 years, there have been three unique barriers that have kept Black America the Black community intended, discriminatory lending, and economic segregation. First, let's talk about Following the Civil War in the late 1800s, Black Americans had few due to legal segregation and Black Codes. Black Codes were laws that and movement of Black people and forced them to work for low wages. If you were Black, a white bank would either deny your loan, or charge you higher interest rates. These were common practices and it created a need that Black-owned banks - Black communities found ways to create mutual aid and cooperative efforts to make sure that, as they were locked out from mainstream financial institutions, they had the systems in place to make sure that their - In 1890, one of the earliest Black banks was operating in especially the Jim Crow South. (upbeat ragtime music) Alabama's first Black-owned the Alabama Penny Savings Bank, was founded by Reverend William Pettiford. Influenced by Booker T. of self-help and racial solidarity, the Alabama Penny Savings Bank lent money to churches and when other banks wouldn't. And it did this during a time was doing everything in its power to deny Black political Pettiford partnered with powerful white bankers in Birmingham who helped with administrative These partnerships were like cheat codes during a time when segregation laws made Black and white In 1913, the Penny Savings Bank constructed a five-story building that housed not only the bank but dozens of other Black businesses. The rent from those businesses provided funding and investment capital, something Black banks struggled to get. The Alabama Penny Saving Bank faced financial risks A lack of capital, or money to invest, put Black banks in a risky position. Not only did segregation laws shrink the number of potential customers, low-income customers made smaller deposits and more withdrawals. This meant, one, operation so Black bank owners invested to keep the bank stable, and, two, it restricted their Fewer loans meant smaller profits. Pettiford's partnerships with larger banks meant he had aid during difficult times, and the bank grew significantly Assets reached over $540,000 by 1913, the equivalent to approximately By 1914, the Alabama Penny Savings Bank was the largest and strongest Black bank in the United States. But no one could be convinced to help the bank after his death. The bank failed just one year later, causing depositors to While the Alabama Penny Savings Bank provided an alternative Jim Crow segregation made nearly impossible. The second barrier to building wealth? Housing discrimination. - One significant driver as I mentioned before, is gonna be home ownership. Home ownership is a whereby every year of home ownership homeowners gain about $14,000 in equity. Conversely, if you don't have you don't have access and that cushion that you could get from having money saved - Housing discrimination allows banks to deny home loans to the Black community through a practice called redlining. Redlining was the of denying mortgages and to segregated Black and It's called redlining because bankers literally drew red lines around undesirable communities. One Black household in was enough to make the federal government deny mortgage loans in that area. As a result, Black families or were shut out from - We just keep having to fight battles. But a lot of the things that have happened to Black folks in America were orchestrated and they were legal. They were systemic. I mean, it wasn't like it It was designed to be that way. - Black banks made it their mission to fight against these policies. Maggie L. Walker was America's first Black Not only did she organize a Black bank in the segregated South in 1903, but she managed to run a successful one in Richmond, Virginia, the former capital of the Confederacy. It was called St. Luke Penny Savings Bank. As a business woman and banker, Walker advocated for Black and the advancement of She famously said. - [Narrator] &quot;Let us &quot;Let us have a bank &quot;that will take the nickels - By 1920, Walker's bank had provided more than 600 mortgages to Black families. It also created jobs allowing them to leave But just because a Black didn't mean the challenges stopped there. In 1925, Dr. Ossian Sweet bought a home on the edge of for $6,000 more than its market value. But after moving in, a white mob surrounded They wanted them out. This story is common. The fear that a Black family moving near a white neighborhood would tip property values and send the neighborhood that some white homeowners were willing to resort to violence. Once the mob started Sweet fought back, and violence broke out. A white man was shot. (gun fires) Sweet was later charged, and then, surprisingly, But the fear of decline is When the white upper and property values plummet. Businesses and bankers stop investing, and neighborhoods are left underfunded. Walker's bank continued to provide loans even when it wasn't St. Luke's served its until just before the Housing discrimination has continued to make Black home ownership widening the wealth gap. The third barrier is the result of decades of lending and economic segregation. Economic segregation is the geographical based on race and wealth. While redlining has now been you can still see its effects in the form of economic segregation. If you look at a map of a major U.S. city, you will see pockets of wealth in historically segregated communities. And many of the predominantly are low-income with unequal health care, and upward mobility. - You're seeing communities as a function of slavery, Black Codes, mass incarceration, redlining enter into a different system of financial services products. And so the wealth that they and the wealth that they could because they're dealing with institutions that are preying upon their poverty. - Pockets of deep poverty are typically the areas Black banks serve, but they struggle to turn in their underfunded communities. So what would happen if was able to support its and keep money flowing Well, we actually know In the early 1900s during three notable pockets One was in Durham, North Carolina. During this time, Durham was home to more Black millionaires Durham's Hayti neighborhood and created a self-sustaining and was a safe haven Black-owned businesses invested in Black innovation, talent, and enabled the flow of During a time where there are few options for Black businesses to secure capital, Mechanics and Farmers Bank for small borrowers like M&amp;F and Durham's Black Wall Street managed to keep the Black dollar circulating within its and created a thriving Black middle class. But most Black banks struggle to do this, and it's why economic segregation has continued to be a barrier. Unless every buyer and seller deposits their money into a Black bank, eventually the Black dollar will flow into and grow leaving the Black community with scraps. &quot;The Catch-22 of Black banking &quot;is that the very institutions &quot;needed to help communities escape &quot;the deep poverty caused by &quot;inevitably became victims In 1958, North Carolina cut a freeway through the heart of Hayti, and Durham's Black Wall Street, along with hundreds of homes And M&amp;F bank couldn't withstand the decades-long decline in In 2015, the organization decided to diversify its customer base and market outside the Black community. Out of the 5,400 FDIC-insured only 23 are Black-owned as of 2018. If you're Black and you there's a chance you could be arrested for trying to withdraw denied a mortgage even or issued predatory loans The truth is, Black-owned banks face many of the same challenges today as they did 200 years ago. But they're not giving up the Modern movements like Bank Black, championed by celebrities are revitalizing the push Killer Mike and Andrew co-founded a financial tech company that recently secured a to encourage banking and build Black wealth. An NBA team and the NFL made history when they chose Black banks for loans as high as $35 million. And OneUnited Bank, the nation's largest and first is fighting for the who are unbanked or underbanked, providing loans and financial literacy to low-income communities. Addressing these ongoing issues is crucial to creating a more equitable So if Black banks alone aren't going to help Initiatives like student which disproportionately affect and expanding affordable housing programs and other forms of reparations could help close the gap. - And reparations doesn't have It's not all about cash. It's about access. Access is a form of reparations, right? - [Harini] Black banks may not be able to completely solve the racial wealth gap, but they are one important in growing Black wealth in America. - Let's get you into a home, let's get you into that business, let's get you into a bank account, and let's get you started on this journey of economic mobility so this generation and the next can say, &quot;I'm no longer a victim &quot;of these mainstream &quot;We are on our way toward freedom.&quot; - Thanks for watching, and don't forget to so you don't miss a single (upbeat funk music) Yeah Freedom That's what we need Freedom Yeah Giving a little love It's not as hard as It's not that time it's only you Tell me world what are we gonna do Don't you know that peace and love Will give us our freedom