- This is the &quot;$100 What?! Don't worry. This And whether you know it or altered the tech world (upbeat music) Hey everyone, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. And this is the OLPC It flips, it swivels, it's green, it's just a cool looking computer, but the computer is just OLPC stands for One Laptop per Child and they were an ambitious charity on a quest to change the world, So let's see how well that worked out. But first we need to This is Seymour Papert. He was a media lab professor at the Massachusetts and he was one of the an educational theory that states children can when they're able to build things. Seymour was also one of the inventors of the logo programming language, which was designed for children. It was released in 1966 and went on to play a key in the early days of Its popularity grew and it ran on multiple platforms. Now, there was another person who observed Seymour's Nicholas Negroponte. Nicholas co-founded the with Jerome B. Wiesner. This is where Professor 20 years later in January, 2005, Nicholas was about to form the non-profit, One Laptop per Child, and the organization's roots OLPC's mission was to not a laptop project. Their goal was to provide with new opportunities and express themselves. That may sound a little nebulous, but OLPC would achieve this by providing each school age their very own laptop, and these kids would keep the laptops. OLPC wasn't just donating some each kid would get to keep but there was just one In 2005, laptops were than they are now. You typically couldn't get a good machine for less than a thousand dollars, and there were no Chromebooks So Nicholas had to get the price down, but first he had to gain Thankfully, Nicholas had some success doing something similar in the past. He helped bring computers such as Dakar in 1982 So why not? Let's do it again. On January 26th, 2005, Nicholas spoke at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Oh, not on some big stage or anything, that's what I originally pictured. No, it was in the hallways. John Markoff of the New York Times wrote about Nicholas's laptop pitch, and he said Nicholas didn't at the World Economic Form because the form was They weren't focusing much - We have 10,000 children 10,000 because they don't have Nicholas brought a mock-up along with him and he for a $100 laptop. And overall it was pretty well received, but like with anything and there will be critics. Some attendees complain that charitable efforts should focus on clean water in real schools. Bill Gates even told reporters, &quot;Geez, get a decent computer where we can actually read the text.&quot; It's okay, Bill, it's just a prototype. It's barely even a prototype, just give it a little bit of time. But on the plus side, companies and he was backed by big and Nortel, just to name a few. Quantum computers also backed the project and would go on to manufacture the laptop. And in 2006, Marvell would join too and soon their chips would The forum ran from and in the middle on the 28th, Nicholas officially started the and colleagues from the Joe Jacobson and Seymour Paper. Joe was the co-founder of E Ink Corp, which sounds like a good if you're making a Later in the year, Nicholas who just joined the Media Talk about good timing. She co-founded the so Nicholas et al picked her brain to see how can we make a good display that fits the design of this laptop and fits within the price. As the team worked hard on Nicholas traveled the for this project and more We really believe we can of millions of these machines available to children around the and it's not just $100, I was actually surprised that he said that because I already thought but to go even lower, maybe too optimistic. In November, 2005 at the World Summit on the Information Society in Tunis, Nicholas and United Kofi Annan presented an named Green Machine and it captured the interest This new prototype featured a hand crank to power the laptop, which was first demoed at MIT's Emerging Technologies Conference. And according to Morgan Ames when Annan demoed the in front of everybody. By the end of 2005, OLPC of several foreign countries and Massachusetts Governor, Mitt Romney. They were all planning to deploy laptops to millions of children. The project even captured He offered free copies of for the OLPC, but Seymour because he wanted an entirely Now it's time for the on January 26th, 2006. And remember one year ago, Nicholas was wandering the halls pitching this $100 laptop idea, but a lot has changed since then. At the forum, the United Nations it would back the laptop with the aim of selling 1 So the momentum was growing. At this point, the laptop but it was still commonly That's a bold name with a bold promise. And when you toss that you start to set certain expectations and hopefully they can be met. I think you know where Yeah, the price never got that low. But before we dive into let's talk about the name. In 2006, OLPC changed the name which was also the name of a Coincidence? I think not. In 2007, the official final The name was based off the logo, which was designed by Michael (indistinct) at the Pentagram Design Firm. And it looks like a happy kid, you know, with a head and arms, you You know, now I see the singular Okay, so now let's talk Walter Bender was the president of OLPC and he and the team worked very They actually got it down to $130, getting pretty close to a hundred, but they cut so many corners, so they had to make some adjustments. Ultimately, the final price was $188, which is obviously above 100. In Nicholas's defense, he did We have a target of $100 by 2008, but probably it will be 135, maybe 140. We are promising that After a pilot program Uruguay became the first country and this was in October. They ordered 100,000 laptops. And on November 6th, mass Now you couldn't just and buy one of these things. They were sold to governments and then they were But after mass production started, OLPC started a donation program to give a laptop to a And on November 12th, they launched a Give one, Get one program. If you donate $399, OLPC and ship one to you or The program lasted until and it raised $35 million. I think that's a great start. So that brings us to the and thanks to the Betty I have an XO-1 right here. No, I'm just kidding, I I just bought it on eBay. We'll also cover this which is really important you may not always have electricity and sometimes you might find and that's why it's always nice to carry a power bank with you. And I like this SHARGE Power Bank because honestly it just I love Clear Tech. SHARGE made the world's first and this is the Shargeek 100. 25,600 milliamp hour capacity, 100-watt fast charging in and out. You can charge the whole It has a display so and monitor temperatures. And it has two USB-C and a DC port with adjustable voltage. You can charge almost tablets, laptops, you name it. But Ken, is it airline safe? Yes, it actually says And here's another cool It's a tiny M.2 SSD It uses USB-C for data transfer up to 10 gigabits per but you can use a cable if you want to. It has a right protection switch and with the included for six and a half foot drops. So go ahead and click the link to get your own SHARGE products right now. Okay, let's take a closer look The XO is green and white, and the colors were inspired according to ZDNET Asia. Now look, it even has a handle too. Oh dang, I just remembered Strong Bad, used. He must have donated. Good for him! The shell was built to be child friendly, which inherently means durable two-millimeter-thick The design is rain resistant and can survive five foot drops. But don't take my word for it. - Try doing that with Okay, and it's always gonna work. It seems to be working still. - Yes, it does work. There's also no vents, which helps prevent water and and there's no fans or Fewer moving parts means The keyboard is constructed and while the small keys might be annoying to us adults, for kids, this is maybe a better solution because it prevents dust from getting underneath the keyboard. Beneath the keyboard is with left and right click XO buttons, and there's two resistive but an official stylus and in the next XO revision, the resistive pads were The top and bottom plastics are textured with a bump pattern. And here's a subtle touch. Closer to the handle The large XO logo on the in numerous color combinations so kids could tell their laptops apart. The rubber flip up ears on the sides of the screen They latched the laptop and they house the wifi antennas. They can be positioned On the left side is the AC barrel jack, USB and audio in and out. On the right side are two more USB ports and underneath is an SD card slot, which is kind of hard to On the display bezel, we speakers, a D-Pad, a screen and game buttons. And the D-Pad and game when you flip the screen Now you've transformed your XO and here's where that Mary The team built a seven and a The first mode shows and power consumption is The second mode uses a The backlight turns off and the color switches to black and white. This mode works better and it draws much less It's great for reading and the XOs display enables the display to remain live while the processor is suspended. The system regularly turns on the motherboard to help save power, and this rapid switching is And speaking of power, the removable battery It's a 3.1 amp hour battery, it can last around six It's a good balance of form and function. A smart guy must have led the design. Oh yeah, it's Yves Behar They make some cool looking stuff. After the XO, they went on to design many more products including the Jambox and something I made an episode Now let's go inside and look at the specs. The bezel display and with a total of 12 Phillips screws. Then there were three more Phillips screws holding this metal shield/heat Inside we have an AMD Geode LX processor clocked at 433 megahertz, one gigabyte of flash memory for storage, 256 megabytes of RAM and RAM we were talking about earlier. And here we see Marvell helping us out with a camera and flash enabler chip, which helps drive the and the SD card interface. They also made the wireless chips. The XO supports 802.11b/g wifi which means XOs can work together to provide internet access to other XOs. The feature was buggy to say the least, and users complained. And in the next revision of the hardware, OLPC didn't even bother building in the mesh networking feature. Now when you're in a developing country, you may not always have which is why OLPC tried but we all know how well that worked out. So the team worked really hard to get the peak energy and only one watt when idle. However, in my testing, I'm not sure why there was but I still think that's pretty low. But if you didn't have an outlet, the XO can be powered or a solar panel. So that's the XO-1 hardware. Now let's take a look at the software and much like the hardware, the software was heavily for children's education. Keeping the open source the XO runs a slim version of Running on top of the OS desktop environment named Sugar. Walter Bender led the development and Pentagram helped design the UI. I'm not sure why OLPC maybe it's just because kids love sugar. Okay, funny enough, I just and she said something similar. Great minds think alike. Anyway, when you boot it (tech music) I love that. So sugar's fundamentals than a typical desktop There's no applications per se. Programs are named activities they're recorded into the journal, which is a core part of sugar. Everything the user is automatically recorded into the journal and there's no traditional Instead, all activities and your favorite activity in the home view, depending on the build, You can switch to freeform mode and to see all installed activities, you can click the list button. The home view is the third layer or view of the operating system. Sugar has four of them, and you can switch between the four views with these circular Zooming all the way out gives which shows other XO users including mesh networks. Zooming in gives you the group view, which shows your friends, then your current activity. The frame button instantly and it's accessible in any activity. From here, you can view your clipboard, change your zoom level, alt tab also works, see your buddy list and check status indicators. You can also access the frame by moving your cursor into a corner. And when typing, you can to enter special characters And this next part really surprised me. If you press function space bar, the source code for the activity you're in displays right in front of you. Off the top of my head, I don't that does that, like that's pretty cool. They're really focusing on open source. There's some other keys on here, which according to the manual, were saved for future releases, but I don't know, I can't There's lots of built-in activities and you can also download On my XO, I have music playing drawing, Python programming, games, and probably my favorite, speak. - Shall we play a game? - Building on Seymour's these activities help children Heck, you can even program and the turtle is still there, Maybe you've had enough sugar for the day, so if you need to, you can switch to gnome and have more of a traditional and then to switch back, just For security, XO used a system developed by Ivan Krstic named BITFROST. It was Password-less and if a laptop didn't check or a USB dongle, the BITFROST also runs activities in a sandbox so they can't see other or user documents without So that's the XO software. And for what it's worth, you can still download versions The activities library and OLPC still offers images that are specifically But you know, like with anything, there's limitations especially but those were small issues The bigger issues were with OLPC's mission and the execution. Just like earlier, critics argued that the mission ignored like food, water, and shelter. Is this a bad time to to someone in need every You know, these criticisms of that donkey comic. No matter what you do, even like you're always gonna have critics. Other issues stemmed from OLPC was accused of just and then that's it. Where's the tech support? Sure, the system was easy to open, but that doesn't mean you First off, you have to not just how to open it Some of the parts were proprietary, so if there was a hardware problem, fixing them would not be practical. And that's what happened over the months. There were issues, there and the usage declined. There were also logistical issues. For example, Peru committed but as of a 2009 report, And unfortunately, problems like this contributed to the lower sales numbers. And I know it's still but when you toss around just like with the price, 2007 sales totaled around of the United Nations 2007 projection, and it doesn't look like they're on track to hit their year two goal which Nicholas projected at Son of a beach ball, a that is a really optimistic number. At this point, some and competition was starting to heat up. And to understand that a little bit more, we need to rewind a bit. In March, 2007, Intel shipped their first This kind of pissed Nicholas off. He accused intel of trying and to make things even more awkward, Intel joined OLPC on July Yeah, that relationship Nevertheless, before the XO even shipped, it was gonna have to brace for competition and it didn't stop with just Intel. While the first XO was ASUS revealed the Eee PC, which gave birth to the netbook boom. The first Eee PC would go on in the first year, despite costing twice as much as the XO at $399. Back to early 2008, Nicholas tried to give the XO Him and the team toyed with the idea of running Windows XP on the laptop but ultimately that plan did network out and Walter actually left OLPC. Don't worry, he founded Sugar Labs so he can still maintain sugar as a separate independent He wasn't the only one to leave though. Mary and Ivan also left in early 2008. And Mary did what's She founded the for and they made low power Don't worry, they both signed so they're getting along So numbers were being missed and people were leaving the organization. Things were looking a little bleak, but surely things can't get any worse- - The signs were everywhere, but now it's official - Most significant financial - The Dow plunged nearly 680 points today. - But the news could only get worse. - Oh yeah... the housing bubble. These economic challenges eventually led to the death of the XO-2, which was a dual screen And I don't wanna blame for this next part, but I'm On November 17th, 2008, OLPC ran another give one get one program, but it generated less than from only one year earlier. In the midst of these challenges, Nicholas had some serious thinking to do. On January 7th, 2009, he He cut the staff in 'cause that would be bloody, I mean he downsized the staff by 50%. He slashed the budget from and he split OLPC into two entities. The new OLPC Foundation While the OLPC Association continued the distribution maybe this restructure could save them. OLPC wasn't calling it quits There is peaks and valleys and OLPC still believed in their mission and it looks like Nicholas did too 'cause otherwise he So what's next? XO 1.5. The XO 1.5 released in January, 2010. It replaced the AMD Geode clocked at varied speeds from 400 megahertz to one gigahertz. The RAM was also upgraded to one gigabyte and the flash memory was to four gigabytes of storage, which was now an internal micro SD card, so it could be upgraded. In March, 2012, the XO 1.75 was released, and the biggest new Marvell Armada 610, which Previous XO processors which is typically more hungry. This ARM-based architecture and I've seen various but it never got down to $100 At CES 2012, OLPC showed the Essentially, it was a redo of the XO-2 without the dual screen form factor, but it was canceled in November in favor of the next XO laptop, and I'm sure you can That's right. XO-5. Just Released in March of 2013, according to Engadget, for $206 per unit with a minimum The XO-4 had some souped up internals and a micro HDMI port but the most exciting feature The XO-4 touch used infrared technology. Yeah, it could only track but I guess that's okay for the price. And on July 16th, OLPC XO tablet for $149, but there was still one more but we're about three On March 11th, 2014, OLPC News reported that the OLPC Foundation but the association continues to operate. In 2015, it was acquired by and it now operates as OLPC Incorporated. At this time, OLPC was actually with a bigger screen and faster internals. And one of the reasons was &quot;Hey, the parts are And it launched in 2016 and here it's. Yeah, it's kind of transitioning to a traditional laptop look. And they called it NL3. I'm not sure where the but there you go, NL3. Shortly before the NL3 launch in 2015, OLPC's total laptop shipments reached nearly 3 million children The OLPC website today So perhaps that number Was the sales number as big Was the price ever as low These utopian predictions caused some complications but ultimately I still think 3 million is a really good achievement. OLPC today still focuses and in 2022, they changed to represent Operation Over OLPC's life, people came and went. Mary originally left in and she eventually formed OpenWater. Ivan went on to work for Apple in 2008. Apparently he achieved at 1:46 in the morning. Talk about being a go-getter. And Nicholas is an angel investor, and I believe Nicholas has plus the competition that helped push down prices And shortly after this we saw iPads and A lot more affordable were becoming available. In June, 2016, during an interview on Martha's Vineyard Arts &quot;We estimate that there are in the hands of kids who wouldn't have otherwise gotten them. Not because we made those laptops, but because we pulled the prices down.&quot; And I agree, I believe this and the countless employees and volunteers who helped make it happen through the industry. But what about Seymour Papert, the man behind constructionism, which all of this was based on? Sadly, we lost Seymour on July But the legacy he left on computers and education is timeless. And I swear I did not plan this. But a couple weeks before I and before I knew anything about Seymour, I internally scheduled the which happens to be Seymour's birthday. Happy birthday, Seymour! Thank you to Nicholas and the team for creating such a noble cause and thank you for coming and learning about it. It was a lot of fun. Catch the crazy and pass it on. (upbeat music) Guess what activity I just Reversi!