If I play another session, I could get to 10,000 points by waiting 20 seconds at the start of first. Uh, I need to keep moving in order to have specifics of how you get disconnected. let's go now. Thankfully, I was able to get uh, is that cheating? Maybe. But I don't know. I'm not going past the finish line until 20 seconds. Ooh, this is the one time I'd rather get the bullet just left the shortcut. That's really a golden mushroom in, but the next section coming let's just start using it now. I want to go in We're in fifth place already? No way! I waited 20 well, let's see if we can do some snipes here. No, was gonna throw them straight forward, and people because it was such a narrow track. Let me go this Oh, what? I completely didn't see the train. but then so many disasters happened in a row. DK Look at that Bullet Bill! Bullet and shock! scenario before. The only difference is I wasn't If I can do this on multiple laps, then we're far. It's gonna bring me all the way over here Yes, another bullet! This is really good. for emergency because someone could I almost fell off. They weren't for that bullet, pretty reckless with a mushroom. All right, we're extending! Extension. Use a star just I'm guessing. Oh I couldn't get the double. I'm in second place. Oh, but that Yoshi is so far! Good thing the red shell wasn't coming for me Triple red shells! Okay, all right, Ah, wow, and I'm getting Mario Karted. won that one! I just needed to block the All right, let's try to have some see if I can do a little shroomless gap cut. Let's but I probably should have just taken the very greedy for that sort of stuff, so we're item set coming up right here, so we're just And it's gonna drop me off right before this mushroom here, and we're not gonna go for there's the bullet. Stay wide. Okay, and I'm in Right here. Oh, the bullet saved me, I was that shortcut right there. I'm just trying to Okay, this is really good. This is really good. I can hit everyone with these. No! Random green at the end, I have to do everything perfect or shortest tracks in the game. This-- I literally do way. Like, it's not a skill issue here. I think maybe get a decent position, but I think there's I'm still half a lap behind. That is how short to slow everybody else down because they are Shock, no one's dodging. Okay, and like that, okay, wait a minute. This can happen. as I can before I use this bullet. Bullet Wow, please, please, one more time, one I'm gonna stay away from this Luigi. No, no, I couldn't pass him! Oh, I was so close! Oh, I fell off. All right, I don't think PeteR But yeah, they just decided. PeteR, scaredy Now I get to go. Sky High Sundae is impossible. What? Hey, it's PeteR! All right, so, uh, get something good. Oh, that's not the order you golden before the item set. Oh, I barely could during this section is really good because you might as well have the bullet drive for you. Double trick bullet, nooo! I should have got the through the item, but it swerved. Okay, so I have trying to steer the bullet left, and it took but I got a third bullet. Are you kidding me? This same time. I don't know how to feel about this. but they're definitely improving with these and try not to take two ite-- I forgot to get the okay, no, no, this is fine. This is fine. I was trying to use it as soon as I came what is that? Is that my fifth bullet? Okay, fourth place. That was Oh, I messed that up. Oh, that is so All right, cool, cool, cool. [laughs] That's one right back in it. Oh, green shell. I'm not gonna getting hit is my only way to win this. Oh, and shock, or I could just grab a double item box All right, cool, cool. This All right, another second place. Come on, can I get a first place? It's tough on this track so as always gonna have to just get these coins good luck. Hopefully, I won't hit that banana on Nice, I dodged the shock! Okay, I mean, honestly, because I, I mean, I Yeah, I have two mushrooms in seventh. It is completely possible that I but it is possible. Oh, I'm in second? What Okay, first place is way up there. We need a blue Are you kidding me? Well, we got the blue shell, Still, second place. Come on, I need a first Circuit works pretty well as a bagging track, kind there's a lot of shortcuts and there's a bullet That's not something that happens often. But, uh, I want more different items. Oh, the shock. to chain this and hope nobody dodges. So yeah, There we go. Uh, oh, another star on the ground. is exactly how it needed to go, so I'm just gonna You know what? this is a lot like Cheese Land. the left, and it just extends. So look at this, Wow. Okay, I'm in fifth place with a red Okay, uh oh, super horn in front of me. Okay, tire? Oh, please, please hit, please hit. I beat Dan! Get as many coins as I can get. Oh, This is kind of like one of the times that Okay, I'm not gonna be able No. Okay, using this bullet sooner would have uh, into the item box instead of, or like but I got another bullet, so that kind of saves I'm passing people, passing people left and Get away from everyone. Spamming this Oh get it out of the way. And a blue shell. Good warning. So this way, no one's--Was that the shock? But I can't be sure. Yep, okay. Oh, oh, oh no! I should have won if it weren't for Come on, mini turbos, mini turbos. No, I'm not gonna do the shortcut, I'm just going Okay, okay, we're back in this thanks to that no shock. That was a little ambitious. Oh, this is rough, and there's red shells right Oh, get these items away from me. Oh, and there's plant to almost be done. Now let's go, let's the perils of having a golden mushroom, a mushroom Okay, okay, that was super clutch, We'll get some good items here. This is right hope. These all have to hit, all of them have to Uh the best I can do is second. This is such a but I don't know if 20 seconds is too so I am not liking my chances on this, I can take. Okay, shock, shock, this Try not to dodge anybody, there we go. Let's have to I forgot [laughs] There's no item strategy Please, no, no, didn't drop I'm gonna stop right here, get this And just like that, we're almost back in it. Okay, I'm gonna save these mushrooms for a make sure I can take the shortcut right away Oh, blue shell. I wanted a blue shell for, a blue shell. I want to benefit from the this is a bad order to get the items in. Oh, No, that was such a good throw. What Okay, second place. Wow, as soon as I passed that but I was like, no way their throw Excitebike Arena is just a straight line with not chance here actually. And the reason is because ramps as much as everybody else. And believe it or gonna use the bullet. Yeah, and the, the bullet almost looks like the bullet's tricking off these. instead of taking the top route. This is actually Yes, yes, yes. What? what is this? And of course I have red shells coming at me. Oh, believe I got that as my item in 12th place, So this is quite the bagging track already. So I look at that, they really don't care about waiting 19, 20. Okay, sweet. Let's get it started here. the shortcut just because I've waited so long that I'm just gonna try and use every item to And we'll use this thing right here, take a few shortcuts. Oh, I actually don't I didn't see where they used their bullet, I I'm gonna use it right here. Hopefully Oh, shock dodge! Let's go, take the U-turn. Yes, yes. And we're just gonna golden right I have triple mushrooms. I'm just So we're gonna keep taking shortcuts here. Okay, that was a little sloppy, but hopefully my hope is that I can save these Yes, yes, come on, come on. No red shell, and we Yes, let's go! Oh, I waited 20 seconds. I bagged and we made it work. Absolutely styled on 45,000! You got nothing on this sub 10,000 because I'm scared of that 45,000 player. Let's but I'm still gonna give it my all. Whoa? I'm learning so much about the movement cycles I am waiting 20 seconds, and so that puts me played this track so many times, and that exact Bullet gonna use it right away. Okay, we a blue shell to happen this race, or I have range of people already, that's crazy. Oh, Bullet and shock, wow. I can't really chain items with having them I had it in the other order, but we're gonna I can't see with that bullet anymore. Okay, I get the double item box. That's why I used it take the double item box from me. Whoa, whoa, Please, please, no one hit me with anything. This Wow, we have learned bullet shock is such a and the amount of plot armor that Mario had combo in the Mario Kart section of that movie. for the Mario movie. I mean, it's obvious and Mario's not gonna die in the Mario movie. So, another bullet. Uh, should I just use Okay, this is good. Drop me, drop All right, whatever, that works that was this golden mushroom and just go around here. Please last me all the way till the And we're gonna see. Oh no, we're gonna see if we in second place. Oh, this is really nice. Oh, I Oh, Luigi got it--Oh, we're the Mario brothers! couldn't even get the item box. Okay, I'm gonna Please, please, plot armor, I need, I good to happen to me. Everyone else needs to yes! [laughs] okay. I almost won. I almost won, have even gotten worse. That was definitely plot start, but unfortunately, I could not join them as seconds. And if you're wondering, I am using what I couldn't really tell what she actually used, However, I am in denial she did not use inside I'm not gonna spoil anything in the Let's use that and see if I get a double item box. Let's start goldening. Come on, good Okay, we're gonna use the star One mushroom. This is where it Nice, nice, nice, nice, nice. Fastest Okay, come on, come on. Person Yes! Yes! Mario gets second, but Peach first place get blue-shelled.