When you go up to your thermostat to raise Obviously the heating system comes on (if did the thermostat do to make that happen? Well, it did one of the three things a typical It commanded heat. It could have also told your forced-air furnace Or, if we're in the summer months, it can That's it. The typical American thermostat has just 4 A common 24 volt AC feed, a return wire for wire for the fan. All the thermostat does is complete a circuit heating and cooling system will respond accordingly. It will either heat. Or cool. Or circulate the air. Now, notice that it can't tell the furnace It can only tell it HEAT NOW. And then it can tell it to stop. That's all the control it has. See, the furnace or air conditioner or whatever sense of what's actually going on. There are some more complicated systems, yes, but around the US are actually quite dumb. Really, most home appliances are dumber than So, they rely on a thermostat as a sort of Now a lot of you are probably thinking "duh, talking about thermostats?". But there are reasons. First is that a number of people have asked setting the thermostat up to 80 degrees does It just makes the heat run for a long time temperature. If you want to set the thermostat higher, The furnace will run on full blast until it It runs on full blast because that's the There is no medium blast. Only full. And off. I'm sure there are exceptions even in the domestic environment so be sure to comment about them. It boosts engagement! Anyway, the second reason I'm making a video they're pretty neat. Now, new digital thermostats like this are It's basically a small battery-operated computer that closes the contacts of a relay when necessary. Add an LCD, some buttons, and boom. Programmable thermostat. [read with intense apathy] sorts of amazing things can happen. So, how can just 4 wires provide the necessary To show you, we need a furnace. Perfect! So, unless your heating system is frightfully in there somewhere with some relays, resistors, block with a few wires attached to it. These wires are going to the thermostat which, For now, ignore the blue one. We'll get back to that. So, the control board is providing a 24 volt for Red. These other terminals are inputs. The white wire is the input for heat. Yellow does A/C. And green runs the fan. Blue does nothing. Ignore the blue. To make the furnace heat, all we need to do Now, the logic board sees 24 volts on the And when it no longer sees 24 volts on the And what jumps those wires together? Why, the thermostat, of course! Thermostats are among the simplest ways to And they do it with time. See, suppose you have a furnace that can output (that's roughly 34,000 BTUs per hour). There aren't many days when you need that Suppose on a typical day, you only need an Well, how can you make a dumb furnace do that? It has no mechanism of its own to reduce its You can only tell it to be on or off. Well that's fine. I only need 30% of its total heat output, three minutes, then be off for 7. In every 10 minute period it runs for three rated heat, or 3 kilowatts. Simple. Yeah, it is pretty simple. Almost remarkably so. Thermostats are a reactive means of controlling If the current temperature is lower than the heat from the furnace. After the house has warmed to a certain degree it will stop commanding heat. Even though it has only a binary state, either by running the furnace periodically to stay The most interesting thermostats are the super These work using the most rudimentary of technologies, of regulating temperature. This is as basic a thermostat as you can get. It just handles heat, and it's very cheap It works. Inside this you will find a pair of contacts, That spring is a really long bimetallic strip A bimetallic strip will bend as its temperature expansion properties of its two laminated When formed into a coil, a change in ambient or to loosen. Since this end of the coil is free to move either left or right with a change in temperature. This exact sort of thing is what makes those in that case this end would be fixed and the Adjusting the set point of this thermostat its central attachment point. In this case, as the temperature falls, the end to move to the right. As it gets colder and colder, the free contact and once it gets close enough *click* The contacts are pulled And what are those contacts attached to, you Why, the red and white wires going to the So long as these contacts are touching, it Once the ambient air has heated up enough the furnace no longer sees 24 volts on the It's that simple. The reason there's a magnet is to create the furnace from running very frequent, very Without it, imagine what would happen when The furnace would switch on, but after heating move apart again. Then of course, they'd almost immediately This is no bueno. The magnet prevents this by forcing the contacts has risen by at least a degree or so. And as a bonus, once the spring can finally contacts snap apart, it's now so far to degree or so colder before they touch again Clever. Additionally, it helps to prevent arcing on disconnect as quickly as possible. But what about the green wire? And the yellow one? You might have already spotted that there's plastic to the left of the heating contact. If there were another contact placed there, Since the contact moves to the right as it same fashion, though in reverse--in this case, the left, which would put 24 volts on the And of course, once it's cool enough, it turning the air conditioner off. Honeywell didn't really try to hide the thermostat. There's a rather clear Y label for what Too cheap to make a different mold, eh? When equipped for air conditioning, too, there to disable heating or cooling commands. All that it would do is prevent a cooling This prevents a scenario where it cools so on the heat, which snaps it to the left, which which turns on the heat, which snaps it to it to the right, which turns on the heat, Now that you know that thermostats are really command the furnace to do something, you'll need batteries. In the case of this basic digital thermostat, the wires together. The mode switch probably changes the path to do both heating and cooling. It uses a thermocouple to determine the current and when it determines that it needs to command Then, and only then, is there an actual complete While there is 24 volts potential on the red thus be able to use some of that power is So, unless you want the fan to run 24/7, you Unless, of course, you're either tricky That's the blue one. Anyone who has installed a smart thermostat, the C wire is. Essentially it's just a return path to the This way, a thermostat can be powered by the across the red and blue wires all the time. To command either heat, cooling, or the fan, either the white, green, or yellow just like But, because it can keep an active connection need its own power source. Some smart thermostats, like the Nest, have *usually* allows you to get away without a That's the being tricky option. What these do is charge the battery whenever there is a complete circuit across red and is actually supposed to be doing something. But, depending on your specific furnace or well because the thermostat is of course putting there, so the furnace might freak out and So that's neat. Now there are certainly more complicated heating than 4 wires to work. For example many heat pump systems will have sometimes referred to as emergency heat, that the thermostat will command on if on its own. It's for systems like these and other more terminal blocks inside some relatively basic While most systems just need heat/cool/fan/common, Alright, and for my last demonstration of we'll need a toaster oven. And not just any toaster oven! One of those with the glowy quartz heating I promise this isn't about toast! This is about the oven part. One of my favorite things is when I discover a connection between two seemingly distant technologies. [pregnant pause] And one day, I realized that precursor to pulse width modulation. I don't want to get too into PWM right now ('cause we'll save that for another video!) but what PWM does is modulate the power output off, and adjusting the percentage of time And that's exactly what thermostats do! Just much more slowly. They don't regulate the actual amount of heat coming from the furnace or heating elements or whatever. They instead regulate the duty cycle of the as a percentage. It's a little different because it's reactive, but the effect is the same as PWM. And that's why we have the toaster oven. And now, a brief explanation into why the a stunt double. [The opening theme to Auntie Mame plays] Here it is running in the oven mode at three On the left, it's set to 250 degrees. In the middle, 350, and on the right 450. If we speed this footage way way up, we'll of time and more frequently as the temperature It spends a greater percentage of time outputting This happens naturally because the thermostat set range, but if we worked out what the duty circuit to control the oven. That would be a bad idea because we want a to actually get it up to the right temperature the contents of the oven will change the required See, thermostats are in a sense a natural They don't know that's what they're might be sentient, but that is kind of what Yeah, really it's just "it's too cold, "it's warm now, shut if off" but if you take a step it's really just slow pulse width modulation. With a bit of imagination, anyway. So to recap--thermostats can't affect how furnace when it runs. They only affect how often it runs and for So cranking the heat up does not make it go Same goes for A/C (usually). Because it's a regulation of heating or like pulse width modulation. Just a very slow, very old, not quite so exact And before I go, I asked on Twitter for your Let's go through those while these fine scrolling up your screen. Sneaky (The N1) asks, "Why is the sensor itself instead of little devices placed in it's cheaper? Does putting it in the controlling monitor seeing?" It's not that there's no advantage, it's With a central heating and cooling system heat any individual room gets, it really doesn't They're all going to get the same proportional More sensors could give you a more accurate difference without motorized baffles in the I'm A Mason Now asks, "Thermostat wire. Why does it exist? Why not just use Romex or phone cable or even Well I think it's probably just down to now. In theory you could use any of those. Admittedly, at least one thermostat installation colors so... Visionary asks "Are you covering thermostatic No. Colin Cogle asks "Why did old thermostats I thought the bimetallic strip did all the In fact the bimetallic strip did do all the used mercury tilt switches to control the A little vial of mercury with a couple of the bimetallic strip, and if it leaned to no circuit. If it leaned to the right--now the mercury The weight of the mercury created the same thermostat, ensuring it cycled for a sufficient Were it not for mercury's rather toxic nature, due to its potentially unlimited lifespan Oh, but one downside was that the thermostat in order for it to work correctly. And CantComeUpWithUsernames asks "is there heat or AC for just one "cycle" without Well, I don't know, but that sounds like Say you just came in from mowing the lawn, Press a button and run the A/C for a half afterwards. I could totally get down with that. Nest. Update your thermostats to allow this, please. And if anyone knows of a thermostat that does temperately smooth jazz