All right, I am not excited for this at all. I'm gonna try and keep moving around so I don't. And Like, I'm waiting 25 seconds; this is an insane 12,000 range, which is... there are some really back when I waited 10 seconds against but this is gonna be super duper tough. Okay, eternity. That was way more than half of the lap, I do not expect to win a single race today, be possible. Oh, I messed that up. Okay, and, uh, I'm gonna need so many bullets. I'm let's do this. I'm gonna need a really good No goofing around today. Better items, please. Okay, this is really bad I can't chain items even once. Please, shock dodge. Someone just Why is everyone else also so far behind? Like, still last place. No, it's okay. Right before the Okay, just use that, take this mushroom, Use this, I'm only gonna get a single What? I got third! I got a third! wait a minute. Maybe this is possible. All right, my coins right here at the start. I just follow And it has only been 19 seconds. 20, 21, 22. Look this is kind of a long track. All right, so way around and get two items like this, which And this is really bad because this entire least I don't have to make a decision between So hopefully the bullet drops me off before the bullet? Oh, that's not very good. I was gonna No item strategy. Just use it. Get this out of the star. We're gonna go around and do the strat Okay, it was almost too fast to make it, Look at this. It's almost the end of lap two, and in last place by a lot, and it's deceiving because Come on, I'm just gonna use this. [Music] Okay, I'm gonna do this one more time. Bullet, okay. I feel like I get a bullet take the shortcut, unfortunately, but I do get that means I still have a very, very small impossible at this point, given how far behind Okay, this is hopeless. [Music] That sucks. I'm gonna be losing so many points my combo based on what track I think we're gonna look silly, but I need good combos for the so I'm just beefing up my anti-gravity Good, that track is impossible anyway. All right, is just absolutely no way. This is one of the is like an entire lap. This entire lap one is or at least I know lap two is definitely around is the worst. Drop me. No, really wanted an item. I wasn't even looking. I did not expect Okay, at least there's an item box here. I've the shortcut, so I've never had--Oh, shock And mushrooms, these are not the Come on, come on grab this All right, everyone's rounding the last come on! I can't even get the Wow, that was impossible--that All right, Yoshi's Island. I just made a guide track, but it's not too much of a comeback track. Just try not to disconnect. And there go my coins. Honestly, I--I don't even know why I commentate is probably not going to make it into the final it's the only way I can keep my sanity by talking great. You'll love to see it. All right, so I'm so I'm just gonna hope for some good items here on If only it would take the shortcut. I wish and would just take it on its own without me is really good. This item box is located here? I need to make it on. Yes! Well, it didn't I could have just went on the ground. Get rid chaining is going really well here, and that's Come on. Yes! Wow, the bullet Okay, okay, nice, nice, and we can chain Just make sure I grab the item. and the shortcut's open again. [Music] And now I have to start being strategic. I a blue shell because whoever's in--Ah, no! Double item, yes. Yes! Good items. this. We're in fourth with a mushroom and Someone get the cloud. Get the cloud. Okay, Come on, come on, come on. Oh [laughs] These are some good players. I can't believe it's Kart sucks. All right, we're gonna do some victory hope for this track, obviously, it is Sky High you can do. All you can do is hope for good items. and by that I mean I won't make this comeback. nothing I can do. I need--Oh, okay. I'll wait to finish hitting just so I don't help out first Bullet right away. Okay, um, yeah, last time I think it was five bullets on this track, I'm waiting 25 seconds today, and that is get the item before I get this box here. Oh, this sucks. I was not gonna be able to finish so I'm only getting a single Oh, no, I used up all the Okay, that's what I get for not paying I'm in 11th. I'm in 11th. Okay, item, please. Someone's in a bullet. Gonna wait for him to get Okay, I'm gonna chain it. and they were behind me, so No, my mushroom! Okay, well, I mean, it really You can get third on one of the worst comeback seconds? Okay, everyone's very far away. The only and I can get a double item right here. use it right away. I got a single mushroom. so the bullet unfortunately does not take the Uh, I need this double item box here, so we're that works. Oh, blue shell and shock. Okay, I want the blue shell to hit first Okay, they're gonna be in iframes for so I kind of just dodged first place with dodged first place from my blue shell. I forgot figure out the words of what to say right but at least it's better than just a Wow, I'm back in it. What the heck? I hit 11th Okay, okay, we're back in this, Okay, now I have to play strategically, anymore. I'm trying to make the Okay, I think I'm gonna use Just use it right in here. All right, all and I'm gonna use this boo right Cool, cool. Yes, I got it! What the heck? [Music] Oh my God. Nooo! [laughs] Okay, I wasn't getting it. I'm actually just straight up doing well by I may not even be getting better results. again. Don't they know this is my stomping No, my Yoshi's Island winning streak never lost on that track. Oh no, no, no. If there's ever a time to respectfully back Oh, we got Yoshi's Island again. Um, Nintendo, why won't you let me cook? Wow, Mirror Mode Bangkok Rush. Like, what is this? I the layout of Bangkok Rush, and we're on Mirror I don't even know where to go. I I mean, not that that really matters unless they relatively where my position is. Okay, this is Take that little shortcut in there. Okay, and the double box is on the glider. So we're gonna think you go outside. Yep, I missed it. I missed that means I can't take that little off-road this is a disaster so far. Wait, we're Oh no. [Music] Go up the stairs. No, I'm Okay, this is really good. Helps me through fifth place. I swear this game is just trying to Bangkok Rush, and so that just makes me think that And, uh, then we just get regular Bangkok Rush the layout again. Okay, so this time I need to It's one benefit of having just played this I'm only catching up to the people in last. I I had to use that because I was gonna hit it took a terrible, very dangerous line. Oh no, I to dodge it but it wasn't enough time. [Music] Let's just use all of them, I have to do this. But I'm not gonna be able to go up the stairs for Please be good. Hit the other Luigi. Please. No. This is not funny. I wish I got disconnected lap. Everyone just drove a full lap. I'm getting back for coins because the game just decided that I'm on a completely different lap than everybody Oh, go wide for coins? Nope, the bullet can't this lap as well. Like, are you kidding Game, I need better items than this. Blue shell? Really? Right now? Okay, okay. My goal is to not get last, and I think there's nothing that could happen to anyone Shock, come on, before everyone Okay, got the shock. Oh, there's a banana. the shock in a star. What? That was actually lost 200 points. You know what? I already won