In today's chess video, we'll look at Mikhail Tal against Bukhuti Gurgenidze. Before starting off, I would like to thank Alright, so Bukhuti starts with d4, then knight openings, the Benoni Defense. Bukhuti decides not to accept this gambit Tal offers an exchange, white defends &amp; eventually, After this, Tal plays d6 - defending c5 &amp; also Now this might seem an awkward position for pawn, but Tal actually liked playing this &amp; come up with interesting tactical ideas Anyway, white develops his knight &amp; black Now bishop e2 &amp; both sides castle on the kingside. Tal plays rook e8, attacking the e4 pawn. Bukhuti adds another defender. And then comes knight a6. Now Tal's idea is to go knight c7 &amp; push White plays rook e1, positioning it on a semi-open Then knight c7, as expected &amp; white pushes Tal says no problem, I'll just go b6, and pawns. Look, he can't straightaway play a6 &amp; b5 this pawn completely. Therefore, first he plays b6. Now here, white plays queen c2, focusing his Many of you might think that Tal just goes But it's not that easy, there is a method Look, his initial idea was to attack on the But after this queen c2 move, he realised this rook is undefended. You need to be flexible, and therefore, he knight g4. Now if the queen was here, white could have But now he has a decision to make. Does he want to give away his bishop pair Well, if I was playing against Tal, I would know he's going to sacrifice everything So why give him a chance? Just exchange pieces &amp; get into the endgame. But remember, this is 1957 &amp; till now, no So, Bukhuti says, I know you're planning So, before your queen jumps in, I'll play So, he played h3, but he was shocked after Tal didn't go back. Instead, he did what he does best - an insane You should not take when Tal sacrifices, but knight. Queen h4 check from Tal. And as I showed you earlier, this queen moved the white king is now forced to go back to In this position, blocking with g3 doesn't off the white king in just a few moves. Therefore, king f1 is forced. And then comes bishop d4 with the obvious Having all these pieces, it might seem that But in reality, there is only one move which It's just so awkward, making all these pieces But that's how it is. Now if you think you've seen it all, fasten move - queen takes on h3. This might seem like a queen sacrifice, but Boden's mate. Both these bishops are beautifully cutting If you also enjoyed this move, then smash Okay, so white obviously can't take the queen h1 mate. So, Bukhuti went for the only option, bishop king to escape. Tal moves in further, now threatening queen White again tries to defend - knight e3 from defending the queen. Tal is on the attack &amp; wants to break open tear apart the e file. If white takes the pawn, then bishop takes Bukhuti understands that Tal is going to apply to c4, adding two more defenders to this knight. Takes, takes &amp; Tal goes for bishop a6, pinning Now this rook can also join the party. White pulls back his bishop covering up the And now, just look at this board. This knight is pinned, this knight is also is covering the king, this bishop &amp; rook are don't know what to do. And look at black, everyone is just attacking This is just a dream position for black &amp; especially And if that was not enough, black doubles Bishop d2, and then Tal brings the only piece See, how smartly he is getting all his pieces White obviously can't take with the knight Therefore, he captures with the bishop. It's a check so, rook takes. Again, knight can't take so king e2 - he Tal won't allow that so he picks up the the other knight as well. It's a check &amp; here's where white surrendered. Tal is already up 3 pawns &amp; if you're thinking mate in two, just like this. And say, for example, if he goes back to d1, And then queen f2, and white is completely Black can play bishop b3 &amp; then there are Therefore, in this position, Bukhuti resigned. Alright, so it's puzzle time. In this position, black has just moved here, What would you do? Would you exchange the queens? What's going to be your strategy as white? Find the best moves for white &amp; share it in Let's see how many of you can solve this. Alright, now let me tell you about Squarespace. Squarespace.com is a powerful online platform website. It helps you connect with your audiences as members only content, and many other great You can also push website content to all your Plus, you get tons of useful data about your And it's all very quick and easy! So! If you're thinking of creating a website, And if you like it, you can get a special So, go check out the link in the description