From apps for fast food and food delivery to favorite grocery stores and fast food chains are Popular franchises like McDonald's plan to invest $2 stores and drive thrus in 2024. In 2022, American grocery stores spent $13 billion on automations. The Food Industry Association expects self-checkout aisles to grow 400% through 2025. Automation is playing a bigger role in fast food, and The problem is with minimum wage hikes in places like still coming through. It's very expensive now to run a And whilst fast food retailers have tried to remedy of course don't like that and volumes go down. Americans are spending an average of $475 a month on menu prices at most major fast food restaurants have research from Finance Buzz. Popular fast food items like McDonald's, McChicken and Taco Bell's Chalupa Supreme and Wendy's Small Frosty Executives on earnings calls have taken notice of the way to drive down prices and remain profitable. If we're doing a good job on the items and prices and and delivery, for example, we can continue to grow, So we're we're merchants at the core and And we've and the service changes that we've made, a dimension We're also investing for long term growth in areas like transformation efforts within our global business By leveraging the full strength of our global scale, capabilities. And ultimately unlock speed and system. The American consumer is starting to pull back on the food industry to invest more into automation, to competitive and take advantage of shifting consumer So the only way to square this circle really is to try And that means automation. So we will see many more ordering kiosks. We'll see the use of AI at drive thrus. We'll see other areas of the business including supply increasingly automated, all with a view of taking out Despite some grocery stores rolling back on companies are now rolling out smart carts. Amazon is now selling grocers its dash carts, and this which Instacart acquired in 2021. The carts are in large chains like Kroger and What's powerful about caper is all the sensors on the So there's the camera sensors that look at the basket, then there's the location sensor. And so what retailers are excited about is leveraging what's inside the shopping cart. And so, for example, even if somebody were to hide an with certainty that with the weights and measures Instacart also says the carts help customers stay By having the running total, they're able to ensure There's no apprehension than what you get through the You're over budget and you have to have to put things We're also seeing that customers really love the on the cart. And that's just the tip of the iceberg in the fast food autonomous stores that operate without human staff. Because labor is one of the biggest costs for fast food Cali Express parent company yum! Brands has even developed a training app for We've developed an internal mobile app called Super App the world, And what it is, is it's like having a general managers identify areas that can continue to team members, and being able to do their job more experience for us to make sure that there aren't any The company's full portfolio includes popular food heavily investing in automation. Its digital business is booming, with its digital 2024, a first for the company. Where we can test any concept in a market, partner with and genAI in with our franchisees. And what our test results have shown is that when When it comes to accuracy, we're at parity when it want. And finally, customers are actually responding AI is in some cases exceeding that of a human. 72% of consumers actively use automated tech like according to research firm Software Advice. They found that although consumers appreciate the hesitant to embrace it everywhere. We can go in and make sure that a customer comes into name, we store their credit card information and make exclusive deals and promotions, unlocked our loyalty they're at and be able to suggest things that they All this ends up being an experience that they come And it's not just the food. We're in the try it and see phase of a lot of these AI Not only are companies testing new technologies, This is why some retailers are pulling back on Some customers have pushed back against that, which has self-checkouts with self-checkout. There are a lot more errors. People miss scanning things, people maybe deliberately and it costs retailers a lot of money. And whilst they don't talk about theft a lot, it is back on the use of self-checkout. But the other issue is that whilst self-checkout is hated by other people. It makes the customer do more of the work, and some Especially in a grocery store where you've got a lot deterioration of the service. The reason why customers love caper is because of It transforms shopping from being almost this a chore to a shopping adventure. The tech isn't without challenges. The problem with smart carts is they're a very You think about the number of carts an average fortune for most retailers to replace all those carts scale. While grocery retailers struggle with self checkout, kiosks in restaurants. When customers come in, they love the ability to we're finding that it's also helping customers about, and it's also helping us see bigger ticket When it comes to our franchisee unit economics, we've kiosks up to 30 in some of our markets, and we think retailers. And fast food outlets can see the benefits, but some of really proven itself. There are glitches. There are things that retailers Self-checkout is struggling at grocers. Self-service is booming for fast food, AI, tech and received, but AI and drive thru faces many hurdles. So where does technology go from here? We remain confident that as we take a look at pricing partner and find ways to make sure we can address cost know that the dominant brands will do. In the future you can imagine, um, things like the Ask you could ask Instacart to budget you a full meal plan to abide by certain dietary preferences that you have. And then as you get to the store, you can take that really seamlessly. As automation grows, so do the concerns around job The Bureau of Labor Statistics forecasts a 2% drop in 2032. Still, the Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts 500,000 new workers each year to account for turnover The Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts job openings each year from 2022 to 2032. It's not like automation is replaced all of these jobs. I think the worry is that over time, it will replace to it becoming a lot more difficult for folks to get We're not quite at that stage yet, but we are in future, and a decision has to be taken as to how we Now, it's possible that grocery chains and other customer service facing roles, more, more associates things so we could see these roles replaced with But the danger is that some of these traditional ultimately retailers do want to reduce costs, and What we do believe is that technology can play a really time on valuable activities, like spending time with customers really value. Things like improving order accuracy, reducing the through. We see a lot of upside over the next several customer experience while making the team member's job That longer term vision we have that on a 5 to 10 year Customers shouldn't have to choose between shopping It'll be one single personalized mode, all powered by While food prices do remain an important part of the that the experience that they have digitally is going Today, customers want more than just the meal they're experiences. And for us, that's where we're investing drive through, and other things that can help automate