I can't stay here any longer. Not now. The Jedi Order is your it away like this. Ahsoka, Maybe. But I have to sort this out on my Anakin. I understand. More understand wanting to I know. Those were the last words Ahsoka temple. Anakin watched as her Not realizing that soon she After Ahsoka's departure from the the depths of the Coruscant Underworld, She took various odd repairing ships, machinery, This got her by for a time credits to obtain a small Meanwhile, the pain of Ahsoka's departure Elsewhere in the galaxy, Maul seethed in silence. her dead and Sidious only mildly annoyed at For now, the Zabrak's power was His recent vision of the galaxy master and a new apprentice, Maul's rage was entrance of one of his My lord, there is news on the The trial of the Jedi suspect Another Jedi was revealed to apparently forswore the Jedi That name is unfamiliar to me. Your recent vision, you mention his Padawan. Accordingly, she Hmm, now that is curious. She could be useful. If only for Our Black Sun operatives have observed her Without a steady income protection of the lofty Zealot Maul, deeply entrenched in the name Tano, his intense Bring her to me. My plans may yet It will be done, my lord. The Togruta in question on her stolen speeder, She had been offered a job on that was sending black market As much as she objected to these times of war, she As she approached the landing pad saw the mishmash of insignia Everything from the Black Sun's spiked She stopped her speeder in front of the Are you crew? Yes, I guess I am. Very well. We can take care of your bike And remember, that ship's scheduled Thank you. Ahsoka climbed the entrance ramp to Some lights were blown, still had blast marks on it An eerie silence enveloped further into the ship, Eventually she came to mess area, and finally Ah, Togruta. You're finally here. This is the crewman I This is the one he wanted. Yep. Okay. Hey! No! The Falene who was still seated and Ahsoka's world went dark as She dropped to the floor as the first When she awoke, Ahsoka eyes from a bright white She sat up, disoriented, and It didn't take long. Ahsoka was After all, this wasn't her first Adrenaline quickly took the bed she was in and It was locked, and a quick that they did not have a Gathering herself, Ahsoka and blasted the door The Black Sun guards to react and were quickly She resumed running, but as Ahsoka lift, she found herself face-to-face The two stared each other down. etched on her face on the Mandalorian Not that she could really tell from The tension broke as Ahsoka the distance fast enough that Ahsoka disarmed him, but the Her lethargy and the shocked caused Ahsoka And so, when the Mandalorian side of her head, she found The Mandalorian restrained he forced Ahsoka to her In moments, Ahsoka found room, groggily looking up Ahsoka... Tano, is it? A Zabrak with red tattoos and You are... correct. These... disfigurements... Good to know. Obi-Wan is more skilled Yes. It is unfortunate how he betrayed you. He did not betray me. No? Did the Jedi Council not of an unforgiving and spurred on by an upstart I... left voluntarily. But did they not motivate Kenobi, a respected He was the first one to invite me back. An action as great in its He is as blind and He was pretty proactive Every day, the Jedi are hailed and yet it will soon no longer be The Seppies aren't that good. You misunderstand. And among others from your ex-master. One Anakin Skywalker. The Chosen One. As if I would ever believe that. I have seen, Lady Tano, a galaxy in flames. The Jedi betrayed, purged. Soon, he will be in control. And the Republic, the Confederacy, the It has already begun. Darth Sidious has groomed Skywalker The fall of that fool We'll only accelerate the destruction. Sidious? Of course, of course you don't know him. The Council has kept it from you. Secrets within secrets, within The Ones fighting, The orchestrator of the sides through his apprentice, My master. The Phantom behind it all. Darth Sidious. The Chancellor of the Republic. You lie. That isn't true. As if I would believe a Sith. I am no Sith. Not anymore. Just as you are no Jedi. I do not lie. Even then, I'll tell Anakin. Clear this up. If what you say is true, I'll stop it. Oh, do, please, go back, tell them. Tell your master that his mentor But do you really think After they cast you out? After you abandoned them in town? After you walked away? Now you expect them to listen to you? Civilian? You expect to just crawl back Blinded by the cloak they've Shielded behind a false silver lining? No. Perhaps Kenobi would Perhaps even the Council. But then you would only accelerate I see the temple burning, young lady. Will you set the Blaze? I... I don't know what to say. Because you know the truth, Lady Tano. You've seen it for yourself. But you continue to deny it every single Skywalker is the key to everything. You could help me by stopping Sidious. You save everything. Your precious clones, your All by telling your master that he trusts has been working towards his Search your feelings. You know it to be true. And what if you are wrong? Then you can kill me yourself if Ahsoka knelt in shock as You require... time. With a wave of his hand, Maul made You are welcome to stay, You will not be stopped again. I suggest returning to your chamber to... Think, Lady Tano. Think. Ahsoka began to walk away. Maul's words, the voices of those she All in due time. Ahsoka remained in her chambers She couldn't deny that Palpatine and the But working with Maul, someone a principal who her friends it made her apprehensive, to say the least. As she looked over she realized her She couldn't just ignore it. If Palpatine was indeed the one behind then all the fate of the Ahsoka's thoughts turned to She couldn't bear the the dark side, of becoming Ahsoka couldn't help but think of had believed in her even She thought of how he had their conversation on the steps. She had deprived him of yet he was only concerned Ahsoka remembered the the guidance he had provided. She walked away, but now The next day, Ahsoka escorted by Maul's Mandalorian soldiers. Lady Tano? Maul. I sense that you have made a decision. Enlighten me. I'll work with you, but only because I want to If this turns out to be a Maul straightened himself up, his metal legs thudded with Maul paused in front of her, looking at You are an atypical Jedi. Individualistic, lacking You have something they lack. And what's that? Clarity. You see the truth for what it is, and you don't shy away from it. That's what makes you an Ahsoka frowned, unsure if she should take I don't trust you, and I won't until you No games, no lies. Maul smirked, his yellow I assure you, Lady You will see soon enough. However, we must prepare. The clock is ticking. Ahsoka nodded, steeling She didn't know what thing was certain, she Not with so much at stake. I see that you are wearing the clothing You will find no finer cloth. Now, back to business, Lady Tana. Maul walked around Ahsoka, observing her. Her stance, her attitude, First, you must understand. Defeating Sidious Jedi teachings you It requires understanding Two things you cannot The ways of the dark side? That was in part of our agreement. I thought I was only I am not a Sith. To understand the dark But unfortunately, your teaching is not enough to survive the Now, as you have remained, I And what would that be? Release your apprehension, embrace You will go to Coruscant as my enforcer Message? A message of blood, to be exact. First, I want you to kill A debt collector by the One who wrongs the Kill someone? I'm not a murderer, Maul. Do not underestimate the It's not simply about taking a life, but The emotion, the must be channeled Even your master Windu I understand that, Maul, but I won't And that is precisely why You have a strong will and it easier for you to balance Remember, we are not Jedi or Something stronger. If it puts you at ease, the particular man the death Ahsoka hesitated for a moment, feeling But she knew what was at stake, and Ahsoka looked at him, then nodded. Then you will need a weapon. With a quick gesture, Maul summoned Opening it, he revealed two curved blade shrouds and a But that narrowed in the switch section. These sabers used to be one. The saber staff of Savage Opress. My brother. Until you have the time to remake Go now, Lady Tano. As Ahsoka Tano left Mandalore, her She had made the decision to work plan, but the thought of delving into the Despite her reservation, she knew her friends and stop the impending As her ship approached Coruscant, Of course, Level 1313 with criminals and gangs, She had to remain stealthy and Ahsoka had learned various as a Jedi, and she planned She deactivated the it to glide silently Ahsoka stepped off the She took a deep breath using the Force to sense She felt the presence of several beings Ahsoka made her way Her footsteps soft and shadows, avoiding any She didn't want to draw the darkness provided As she approached a crowded She knew that the key to being stealthy She adjusted her hood, making She watched the movements her, carefully avoiding A group of drunken their laughter echoing Ahsoka felt a sudden surge She focused on her fear flow through her The thugs didn't even notice Ahsoka finally reached 1313, and she could This was a dangerous She took a deep breath and The darkness of the level enveloped She pulled out her lightsaber, the She kept her movements fluid, moving She used the Force to and she was able to Ahsoka's heart pounded winding corridors of her steps as silent as a shadow. The once-bustling streets had filled with debris and the The desolate surroundings reminded after being falsely accused Memories of that harrowing but she pushed them away, She had to find the debt As she approached Ahsoka's grip tightened She had trained her to uphold the principles but now she was about to Take a life in cold blood. She followed her target, Pintu Sanel, a notorious debt collector, stood outside of the run-down apartment He banged on the door, demanding The family huddled together, Pintu had eyes and ears everywhere, With a loud crash, the and Pintu barged in, his Ahsoka jumped onto a platform hearing everything within through a window. Dezum, you're late on your payments. Ahsoka huddled against the wall outside. She heard the father of the before she heard the sound of Please, we're just trying to get by. That's not my problem. If you can't pay up, you'll Ahsoka crouched in the shadows, her body tensed with a She watched helplessly had forced Dezum's family to stealing her heart against him. As Pintu and his henchmen Ahsoka saw the bloodstains and with a fierce determination, Her eyes focused on her target. The debt collector eventually returned The tension in the air was palpable for her as Ahsoka crept towards the building. The sounds of her walls as she tried to Her senses were heightened, as she anticipated any potential danger. Pintu laid back as his scouting around the building. Ahsoka stealthily made her way As she entered the room, Pintu Saunel. The man looked up at her, a Well, well, well. What do we have here? Ahsoka remained silent, her gaze steady as she braced She knew that the man before He was a ruthless criminal. and his fortune preying on the vulnerable. Pintu leaned back in his chair, a death stick clamped between his teeth. You don't look like one What brings you to my humble adult? I'm here to deliver a message. Pintu's eyes widened in surprise. and then narrowed with suspicion. And what kind of message would that be? The kind that can only The debt collector let out a deep Is that so? Well, you'll have to try harder than Unfortunately, I will. With a sudden burst of movement, The room erupted in a flurry of The former Jedi was the sight of the red Not fully processing it earlier. Pintu's bodyguards rushed but Ahsoka was too quick for them. Her movements were fluid and graceful, her blades flashing through Yet she still struggled slightly to belonging to Maul's Pintu himself proved to his massive frame and brutish But she was determined to deliver the message that With a quick, decisive strike, she Literally. He shrieked in pain as watching his severed hand He tried to look behind Pintu finally realized After years of oppressing others, he Please, don't kill me! I'll do anything! Ahsoka said nothing. Looking down, she felt guilt. Perhaps she could just allow She could show the the illegal actions, the corruption a place harmed enough. Or, she could continue to no matter what that conclusion may be. In this instance, it meant The image of the terrified their credits to Pintu She locked eyes with the terrified You want money? I got plenty of it! Please! Suddenly, with a sharp not giving herself time to think about A brief moment of silence hanging heavily in the air before a As Ahsoka breathed in shakily, the only testament to outside of the massive blubber Ahsoka stared down at the shocked It was as though she were Ahsoka felt distant, She could see in front of her, but She stooped to pick up the still Ahsoka straightened. She had taken a ruthless He deserved it, she told herself. He was the enemy here, not her. She had saved them. Swallowing the wave of emotion Ahsoka spun on her heel, disappearing into unfortunately, was just the beginning. If she wanted a chance to stop Sidious Shoving Pintu's head her hood as she slipped She reached her ship sigh of relief as she If she didn't see it, Ahsoka Out of sight, out of mind. For the most part, she was correct. Any guilt she felt faded quickly as That she had saved those Landing on Mandalore, to find Maul lounging on Striding up to him, she her victim's head at As a cruel smile spread Is it done? See for yourself. Maul raised an eyebrow, but obliged. He stepped lightly darkly at the sight that Well done. Follow me. Your training has now begun. The two walked side by side, a Meanwhile, on Coruscant, the Jedi involving the Massacre on Dathomir We've been unable to locate Though we do know that as the puppet leader of Well, he has to be hiding somewhere. Find him, we will. Patient we must be. There has been some new intelligence regarding Mandalore? There has been strange behavior from It seems that much of regrouping elsewhere to A conspiracy, you believe? I understand your concern, but would authorize a siege on Especially without Separatist We need to at least investigate. I agree. Our intelligence Maul is taking steps to Evermore clouded, the force says. It is unfortunate that we... Rex, I'm with the Council. General Skywalker, there has A known criminal has surrounded by the bodies of They were killed with lightsabers. I'll be there soon. Don't allow the Yes, sir. I have a bad feeling about this. Where are we going? How aware are you of the Not as much as I should be. The Jedi Archives hold a lot of knowledge, Most of what I know is from the ancient Then are you aware of The Mines? I am not surprised information would be Yes, the Mines of Mandalore, I don't understand why Your ideals, they don't Is that an accusation? Have I not allowed this city, this When Satine ruled, this planet had a heart. So you say. Don't you see, many of beyond those like Saxon know that the freedom they would have rather than, say, the Galactic Republic's? As if. You've failed to see the Mandalore has the right Abiding by a government such as so righteous in its failure, you may Not that I am, mind you. The Republic may not be perfect, and brought peace and And as a consequence, it That is a reason that my over the most powerful Because the people and tired of a government Your master, for instance, what if the Republic had delivered on How prosperous could Ryloth be if its Perhaps the Republic was once a bastion but it has fallen, and its which now fuels my master, If it had changed, perhaps tools for greater powers Ahsoka walked in silence for a moment. She had heard similar concerns but by Padme and Obi-Wan, and others. It was apparently why Dooku Ahsoka didn't think about as she and Maul entered a massive cavern The mines of Mandalore and the it is said that the waters stable and providing a constant with the trace elements The secret of Mandalore, Lady Tano, something most precious to these people, one that not even the This place is beautiful. Only until the Republic takes hold of it and it becomes nothing more But how can you be sure Because it will. It has happened before. Now, enough philosophizing Here I will continue your training. Here you will learn of and you will learn of, even Your first lesson will be simple. The Mandalorians, they never make Maul stretched out his hands and From Maul's words, she it here earlier and that it This is not a weapon, Maul tossed Ahsoka the rod. All right, but what is it for? Maul drew the darksaber and but still managed to raise the rod It worked, but she was forced back due To prevent you from dying, of course. The lightsaber behaved machinations of the Force It would not do for my too heavy should she Maul disengaged from his blade before reaching You rely on agility as competent as one, but you You must learn to be pragmatic and Adapt to the weight. Strengthen your body. Train yourself, and once you All right, show me what you got. What he's got was a lot. The two combatants fought in a with Maul at a distinct Ahsoka quickly caught up to him, though. While she was still inferior to that did not prevent her from After two hours of bruising, the They took ten minutes All right. I wasn't expecting that. Good. What now? Why did you hesitate Better question. Why wouldn't I? Deflecting will get you it is expected considering Answer the question. Because killing in cold I admit it's not something I There have been Sith who abstained from it. That begs the question. Did you kill in cold blood? What? Were you especially cruel? Did you show no emotion? I... No. You struggled with it. Yes. That is not cold-blooded. No, I... It is not Your emotions are a part of you. Do not ignore them. You need not be callous to be pragmatic. Ahsoka was silent as Her Jedi upbringing clashed and her own disappointment Which brings us to our next lesson. Using your emotions within the Force. Emotion can drive one's power But even then, you cannot Jedi because you have Out of desire, even. Of course, you could simply claim that But no. A Jedi's wrong is nothing more That is why Sith such as my master embraced For the very acquisition of power as power. There is no justification for the actions. There is no motivation There is only power. But the Force flows through all of us. It binds the universe together. Connects us. Immerse yourself in its flow. And the power and fate necessary for And how many times has led to the deaths of someone Ahsoka thought back to Steela Guerrera. If she had only been faster, the brave rebel She thought about and every civilian who The Force is far more They train you to be Even as they sow the seeds of You know that on dozens of planets, the And are distrusted. Despised. Unfortunately, I do. But the Jedi don't do that. Anymore. How many of your greatest ancient members How many of your greatest How many on the Council? Your master, even. I see your point. For now that your mind is open Meanwhile, in another part of stood in the doorway of his So this Pinto Sonel, could he I doubt that. He didn't have a bounty So, some madman is running around Looks like it. They're pretty short by Maybe about... About what? About Ahsoka's size. I know you miss her. Well, I... Anakin's holo-communicator Padme a sad look and Anakin, are you there? Yes. What is it, Obi-Wan? You should come down to level 1313. The Security Bureau has finally gained Took them long enough. I'll be there soon. Anakin turned to look at Padme, Don't worry. Just go. It's important. Thank you. I'm sorry, Padme. An hour later, Anakin Skywalker Rex and met Obi-Wan Kenobi Yeah, see? I told you the tapes We expected these over a day ago, Sergeant. Our Patience was beginning to wear thin. Luke, as a bonus for the knew Pindu personally, and Guy was always paranoid Besides, I only do what they pay me to I do hope your association didn't Or the size of your paycheck. Is that an accusation? Jedi, here's your stupid tape. Play it for us. Okay, okay. Security officer took it into the entry port The image started in real time. So here's Mr. Pindu, Can you find the exact moment of his death? The officer nodded before The images would go exterior angles of Pindu's and then return to Pindu's office During the third rotation, Obi-Wan Pause it. Right there. The figure was colored holoscan, and was too There's our assassin. known about the camera Continue. The camera continued its rotation Pindu looked up at a figure who was He seemed surprised, Our assassin seems very intelligent. The rotation continued. Move it forward. At Anakin's request, they went to the He was on his knees holding his wrist. They couldn't make out the figure who The assassin is talking with him. We... Suddenly they caught neck before his body Rewind to the exact moment Obi-Wan squinted as they saw The assassin wore white robes, however The blade was red and I actually remember that weapon. Obi-Wan crossed his arms. The Shadow Collective What's more, that is the Maul is finally showing his hand. I hate Sabacc. They stared at the figure and the freeze The Jedi Council was dealing with a Sith Was Savage Opress alive? In the weeks after Pindu's murder, the Jedi into the intricate web of the Shadow Obi-Wan Kenobi, accompanied by Anakin of shedding light on the unscrupulous Frustratingly, the only leads they had were detailed descriptions, which gradually unveiled It seems we can definitively All of the accounts we being far too small in There's less to go on than I'd like. What's your take on this, Master? Certainly someone with Force sensitivity, And Savage? What happened to him? His striking lack of even if Maul tempered He's missing at least, even deceased. But we need to delve deeper into this. Well, we better. Anakin, is something bothering you? Something just doesn't sit right with me. Does it not? It's a feeling. I feel conflicted in a way. Connected and distant at the same time. I felt it too, Anakin. Maul has brought something we're yet It's not about Maul. Well, maybe it is, but it's also not. And what is it, truly? Ahsoka. She could be aiding us right now. Ahsoka made her choice to leave. She's But she could help us. Ahsoka has chosen her path. Then why does this feel like it Anakin grappled with a deep sadness and a Ahsoka's departure had left Her absence was hard to accept, as he The voyage she left Anakin's spirit, making The thought of Ahsoka his mind, as if the Force Hey Snips, what do you think? Snips, uh, good thought, but not Ahsoka! Snips, come on! Ahsoka! In truth, he simply wished she was there Meanwhile, Ahsoka Tano had returned Maul had tasked Ahsoka terminating those who Informants, associates, had second thoughts Ahsoka had become a tool for Maul to The sight of the young Togruta Maul's ruthless authority to the For Maul, it was merely a However, for Ahsoka, it meant the dark side, even as she Despite her reluctance manipulated Ahsoka, arguing He spun each mission in just the right way and after fighting in a war area had grown far greater The individuals targeted by Ahsoka had, Suppliers of drug caches, weapon providers of manipulated intel In Ahsoka's mind, she what Anakin, the Jedi Order, She was cutting to the chase, or at least Unfettered by politics resolved to eliminate Maul lounged on his throne. His plan was slowly knew that he had to Through his sources, he Jedi Order's investigation It would only be a matter of time A time that needed to be right. As he thought, Ahsoka Unlike Sidious, Maul treated An apprentice of his trade, not Sure, a pawn in his game. But there would be no kneeling beyond him. And no prostration. Maul had impressed upon those who did not reserve She never knelt. And rarely sat. Maul. Lady Tano. Bard Krim got the message. Excellent. Those beneath me must understand Our underlings may be our largest such as this, boundaries Let no stone be out of place. You have done remarkably well, Lady Tano. I believe you are ready for what I can Yet. What about Anakin? You promised- Promised you that Anakin would understand That we would prevent him Yes, yes, in due time. Now, this task will show the results of villainy as you have been, and will be a What is it? With each head you bring me, the That echo in your heart, I sense the anger and anguish Yes, I understand your mind. And now is the time to rectify You've shared with me the Paris Offee. A supposed friendship, a bond than a mere pretext to cast The mere thought of your mind like a blade, It's ironic, isn't it? Her adherence to the dogmas of Clone Wars only served to expose You were framed, wronged, shamed by a No! Yes! No, no, no. They didn't listen to me. Yes, yes, yes, they dismissed Your achievements in When all evidence pointed Guilty until proven innocent, all to Oh, Lady Tano, a mockery of justice. And it was all to underscore the point Anyone with eyes could see spilling blood to drive that undeniable No, she used me. She betrayed me. I was her friend. You took the fall unwillingly. Oh, we have been through this Who believed you, Lady Tano? You can move forward Yes, Maul. The Jedi is being transferred to And, Lady Tano, do you on trial facing Barriss Offee, the murderer, served to them Every bit of evidence clear, To be given a life sentence after your The hypocrisy of the of the Jedi Order, the All made bare for everyone to Ahsoka took a deep breath as she left her ship, the weight of Barriss For the first time, she in the idea of committing A long-awaited retribution The One that sent her down all these paths. As Ahsoka neared the Obi-Wan and Anakin's A Republic informant within the Syndicate had had struck against one of Marg Krim's top Master Yoda, the source suggests Marg Fearful of Maul's wrath, he is. It's a possibility. Troubles you, something does. Anakin, lately, he seems troubled. Master, after reviewing Anakin's fears might be The Assassin Ahsoka Tano may be. The descriptions, the Sure? No. But remiss we would connection to the Force. What do you think, Master? Fallen Ahsoka may have. Manipulated What would Maul want with Ahsoka? A dark purpose. Betrayed and broken by Wrong she may not be. Anakin has been trying to I've never seen him so conflicted I can sense that it has been The Force tells the ignore the harsh truth. Revealed in time, Ahsoka's fate will be. Hope I do, that misplaced our concernies. Connections to Ahsoka you must follow. The prisoner transfer of Padawan Offee. Oversee you must. Follow the signs. Keep And Anakin? On some level, knows already he does. Force that confrontation, you should not. Break him, it could. If necessary, save If Skywalker begins to waver, a Loyal to his friend Skywalker is. The stormy night on Arkina V as Ahsoka maneuvered Her ship skillfully avoided descending rapidly through the Her silhouette merged raindrops of ghostly presence Above, clone troopers patrolled the upper Her cloak billowed against the gusty wind. The air was heavy with tension, Raindrops lashed against Cadence echoing the Ahsoka waited patiently her eyes fixed on the distant lights of the incoming ship, a The glow of the landing as the transport descended The hum of the howling wind, creating As the ship touched down, She stood in the shadows, a silent The air crackled with the occasional flash of lightning Hooded and cloaked, clone ship, their armor and Between them walked a restrained Ahsoka's eyes locked onto Beres, a surge The memories of their and the subsequent Beresafi remained as she trailed behind The familiar Jedi attire replaced by a plain, She appeared indifferent seemingly content with the Ahsoka, observing from the shadows, couldn't The notion that she would endure a lifetime especially considering the Republic's To Ahsoka, Beresafi deserved and she would be the one She would be the harbinger of that justice. Ahsoka moved in with a fluid grace, Stealth was her ally, and she the clone troopers escorted The bright white lights eerie glow on the scene Suddenly, like a shadow storm, Ahsoka ignited her her blades dancing through Trails of azure light cut through In that pivotal moment, troopers shrouded in raincoats Anakin and Obi-Wan, Ahsoka was caught off guard Anakin engaged the assassin as the the clash of lightsabers echoing, against the lightning stripes Ahsoka's identity remained an mysterious figure dancing through Seizing a fleeting chance, Beres With a forceful shove, off the catwalk, carving a Several troopers fired at Ahsoka The distraction gave Ahsoka the into Obi-Wan and back several She looked toward Beres before She charged Beres with flickering in and out of Anakin and Obi-Wan caught through several clone troopers As they tried to keep pace, the pathways of the prison rooftop made The rain now a torrential downpour Obi-Wan stopped. I'm going to head around and block First Kamino, now this. As Anakin closed in, Obi-Wan Ahsoka swiftly closing the The two tumbled off the slippery Beres quickly pulled eyes with Ahsoka whose Ahsoka came face to face rain-soaked atmosphere, The air crackled with tension as A moment of hesitation hung in down Ahsoka's face, mirroring Beres, seemingly indifferent, Her mouth began to quiver into You won't do it, Ahsoka. The Jedi That is what you wanted, right? Ahsoka tilted her head, her expression No. You are wrong, Beres. I am no Jedi. Beres' laughter, once mocking, The realization dawned on as she beheld what Ahsoka had Beres realized her hypocrisy over Ahsoka's face, her She was no longer blinded In an instant, Ahsoka's red glow, cutting through With a swift and deliberate the blade down, severing Beres crumpled to the Ahsoka! Ahsoka turned, revealing Anakin froze, his eyes widening, Anakin, his expression pain, tried to process Ahsoka... Unexpectedly, a presence drenched from the rain, Ahsoka, we can find another way. Ahsoka, her gaze fixed Obi-Wan's words echoed The mentor who had guided felt Anakin's presence, her For a moment, the storm seemed to subside. Stop this! Don't go any further! I can't go back, Obi-Wan. Ahsoka, without a word, leapt off Anakin and Obi-Wan watched form, her shuttle automatically The Jedi watched as the darkened from the sea and the ship disappeared Obi-Wan, his expression a mix of The storm began to Anakin looked at the coming sun. His heart weighed down. Barriss Offee's death and was Maul's assassin threw The Council chambers were filled other, with each Jedi contributing Mace Windu advocated for had succumbed fully to She would not be the And it was remarkable Opposite him, Master PLO Koon He urged the Council being manipulated and If they could only figure out how Maul Yoda, the venerable His ancient eyes closed as he contemplated As the Councilors reflecting the fractures Some believed Ahsoka had betrayed Others remained steadfast in their belief But few considered the role they We cannot afford to be naive. Simply put, she has and contravened the Laws which failed her Master Windu, I helped train Ahsoka. As strong as she is a child who was forced Even for a Jedi. She is of this temple. We can't dismiss her as lost Do not let your attachments We are at war. We can't afford to be sentimental. The evidence is clear. She has infiltrated Republic Be them criminals or not. What more do we need to see? Maul is a master of deceit. He manipulated the bidding and gained a We need to consider the only her own motivations, but I agree. We've seen Maul operate pulling strings within It's not beyond him to use Perhaps we have failed her. Her choices after she chose You cannot call an murder a failure on What if she willingly for what happened with What then? We owe it to Ahsoka to find out She deserves that much from us. She deserved that much from us. We left her to a military trial where she We are all aware of the consequences Her actions can be her own But whatever the answer Our failure already cost ever known, and I will not The Council continued its debate We need to find Ahsoka. Skywalker, invited to this meeting. You were not. Maul needs to be stopped. Obi-Wan gave Anakin a The other Jedi Masters with expressions ranging We will call you when you are required. Out of respect for your former forward with any decision without Bo-Katan Kryze, the formidable leader of urging the Republic to Grant assistance When news broke about the assassination of Palpatine had positioned motivated statement As a result of Maul's assassin killing give the green light for the operation on Of course, for Darth Sidious, finally deal with the pest But the potential Republic involvement in the Mandalorian the Senate might still view Mandalore as neutral territory, and This topic became a central point was unfortunately inexorably Hours of discussion left the Council Chambers Anakin. Obi-Wan, are we going to find Ahsoka? Yes, but it's not overly straightforward. A siege of Mandalore would allow us to attempt to find Ahsoka and to continue with Palpatine's initial strategy of pushing our sieges The Separatists still take priority. As long as Maul is in control, Mandalore The longer we wait, the more time he has The Council does not With the scale the war is at now, The Jedi and the Clone Anakin felt a quiet rage If they won't do it, I will. I can talk to The Chancellor's It's the Council's Anakin, don't be rash. Even if you siege, you will be endangering lives that I don't care. I won't leave her. Anakin left Obi-Wan remembered Ahsoka It played over and over again in his head. The thought in his mind who was to say there wouldn't Ahsoka was frightened. She must feel Anakin left the Jedi Temple the Senate to seek an He needed to find a way I understand your perspective, my boy. Unfortunately, Ahsoka Tano is just One Jedi in a Force-user plague Please, Chancellor. I can 501st down in a tandem We can go in and take Mandalore quickly. Maul wouldn't see it coming. If you send me to another planet, The rescue of the former lead planet You make a good point. But others The Council wants to deal with and the Outer Rim sieges is Odd. I extended to them the resources for But, sir... They are under the purview sense for the Council to place the I must adhere to their decision. to divide our units without our That being said... Chancellor, please. You could overrule I would be doing you a favor In Trivanakin, the Council harbors What? Oh, indeed. Did you truly believe the Jedi Perhaps your comrade connections with the late The reality lies within Ahsoka herself. And what does she symbolize? Their failures. Ahsoka Tano is a consequence. misguided judgment, Tano was cast aside, unjustly And while I maintain a was clear that the Council The Council would So you say. Why spurn the them? Why divert their attention Anakin's felt a sense of confusion. of themselves again? Just like I do intend to heed Kree's plea and But this task requires the I am unwilling to allow a to go into combat against a Thus, I patiently However, rest assured When the time comes, I Jedi Council to appoint you Anakin's confusion and I can also see that Ahsoka Tano Her path entangled with endeavors, such as that of But perhaps some Thank you, Chancellor. Ahsoka Tano is a child after all. We must be just as patient. But that Shortly after this meeting, the Outer at the helm of the Battle of Anaxes Trench met his end at further weakening the Skywalker fought with winning these battles It was her beacon of hope. It had to be. Mandalore loomed on would uphold his promise But subsequently, Skywalker and Several weeks drifted by, then a Ahsoka stood on a Mandalorian on the stars above, through As she thought about Anakin, Padme, These dark deeds may have led her had captured their attention and She eagerly awaited for Anakin and But the moment was abruptly reverberating through her mind like the A sense of unease hastily make her way Maul paced in front of his throne. He had sacrificed much of in order to effectively His master had already Only the relentless march from the inevitable He knew with an almost new apprentice would emerge into The only question that Ahsoka reached Maul's throne She felt Maul's fear within him. Something was wrong. Maul turned toward her. Lady Tano. Maul. You should not be awake. I did what you asked. Now we can alert Anakin and We... we can stop him right here and now. Yes, this is Sidious The Jedi can know me. Have you sensed it? What is it? That disturbance gnawing I had everything meticulously planned out. It was so clear. The assassination was And I anticipated it would Council to authorize the siege But, Lady Tano, that never happened. It's been four weeks and What does that mean? It means everything, Lady Tano. My master has succeeded in That's impossible. We set everything right. This isn't... The cries persist even within I hear their screams and dread The Jedi will succumb. One by one. What else do you know? Not long ago, an informant of a siege on Coruscant, devised It all falls into place now. Dooku, he and I, one step behind always. He has served his purpose and... Why did I not see this? Dooku had become expendable It was all a ruse. Skywalker dispatched Dooku, What else happened? I can only anticipate my master's I feel it, the demise of the Jedi No. No longer exist. They have been extinguished. At the hand of your master. Anakin. In due time they shall descend upon His hatred, meticulously unparalleled power if my master What does this mean? We have no choice. We must take hold of this Nothing? Nothing? But you just said... There Time now is a precious gift. We must use it wisely. Skywalker will undoubtedly power, yet perhaps we The question remains, will this place Maul muttered to himself as He recognized her A strategic advantage A lure to bring Skywalker My loyal followers A Republic bombardment will not be or a justifiable cause, not unless my Tell me, what is going on? Stop being so cryptic. We shall stand undeterred in Come what may, Skywalker in due course will This plan, it has the Maul walked toward his over his face, his eyes Ahsoka struggled to come to terms with Was he telling her the truth? Was the Force showing The harsh reality struck questioned if all of her Had she taken those lives for nothing? The act of pushing Anakin forward, Did Ahsoka unknowingly the dark side, leading to The uncertainty loomed large. Was Anakin even alive? Lady Tano, all of what There is no point in The galaxy as we know it is changing. The time of the Jedi has passed. Now only together can you and I survive. Ahsoka stood, her eyes locked onto Maul. She breathed slowly a for the first time, she Weeks passed as the to shift the balance The Jedi and their allies were branded ultimately paving declare the birth of his Meanwhile, Maul close, ensuring a As Ahsoka secluded reflecting on her past she couldn't shake her Yet a small part of her clung to the Contradicting Maul's assertions, of course. Information regarding Official records and demise protecting But Maul refused to accept it. He doubted that comparable skill could The relentless stream of betrayal of the clone troopers impressed Maul, solidifying his To him, it was brilliant. Eventually, Jedi Masters marked as wanted, Dark thoughts gnawed at Maul's mind. He sensed an impending threat Each day, the ominous feeling grew It wasn't Sidious, but Something to be truly feared. A month passed before Prime Minister Almec signaling the beginning of another The Empire has requested you surrender. They claim you are and that they will The Empire... No doubt Sidious transformed into yet Its strategic position is My Lord, can we defend our Perhaps. Perhaps not. Does the Empire not wield the same Any resistance we muster But I refuse to yield. Disregard their message, Prime Minister. We will never surrender. Almec nodded and exited the throne As he gazed out the feeling that his master Perhaps of Ahsoka's presence as well. If Mandalore were to fall, so be it. Almec and the Mandalorians harbored the certainty that he and Their sanctuary burning Sacrifice to a... dark force. Something new. Maul remained convinced that he alone and perhaps Skywalker if he still lived. But with each passing overshadowed by the relentless spread Ahsoka represented his lifeline. She must survive if there was It was not long before A lone, gunmetal-gray Venator-class Star An Eta-class shuttle bay, entering the atmosphere Maul was informed by his Allow it to dock and act as instructed. If there is an immediate threat, The shuttle's party Minister Almec and a From the shuttle, a dark figure Almec was taken aback A droid? For a royal guard? Prime Minister, I presume. Representative of the you- I request to meet Um, I am afraid we are I am the Prime Minister on the As Maul overheard the visitor's But then he spoke in Almec's ear. Bring him to my throne room. I will not tolerate gains. Time is limited. Um, of course. If you will follow me, then. The Mandalorians trailed a cautious distance as The doors slid open, revealing the dark Maul cocked his head, before him, unable Almec lingered nearby, In her chamber, Ahsoka's heart She could feel it in the force, the The Mandalorians and Gar their reactions ranging Maul Rose to his feet, meeting You are the one known as Maul. Indeed. And you must be the Maul's eye twitched, as he stared into the Ahsoka shivered in her room, fear, hopelessness, and despair She sensed...him. Ahsoka stood quickly Why have you come, Envoy? The Emperor demands Mandalore's surrender. So I've heard. The envoy's mechanical breathing It echoed as he eyed Maul. I have come to ensure Maul couldn't discern his intentions. There was an unusual sensation before him, obscuring the Mandalore is not yours to claim, nor Ahsoka stopped in the the wall as she listened There is another purpose. Which is? You will bring me the one Maul's eyes opened wide. The He sensed the rage, the of emotions coming A raw power beyond He slowly felt pushed Him. Maul, feeling fear. Maul couldn't believe it. Ahsoka fell silent as the You will surrender, Mandalore, For this city will be razed to the ground. Maul's rage mixed with fear engulfed Then you will be envoy, that you are the The only thing I am surrounded by is fear. Kill him! The Mandalorian super commandos at the two stormtroopers and The warrior turned and redirecting incoming shots Igniting a crimson lightsaber, blaster bolts, swiftly Harnessing the power of the force, the With calculated precision, he down one, severing the arm of Though the stormtroopers continued to put up a fierce Yet his mastery of the force served an impenetrable shield, A commando launched a missile With a swift motion, the directing the projectile to the The explosion sent shockwaves shattering the window and As the wind roared into the chamber, He exerted his will, pushing against the Halmec seized the While Rook's cast and her the warrior, a Mandalorian but the warrior effortlessly his windpipe with a powerful Another soldier attempted fireport whip, but he seized hurling the soldier toward Rook's cast unleashed a barrage calmly deflected each shot before The sheer impact of the into the depths of the Sundari Amidst the chaos, Maul lightsaber and With a primal yell, he launched in a blur of deadly arcs and slashes, The warrior met Maul's measured and imposing The combatants moved lightsabers dancing through Maul's acrobatic strikes were met by the The clash of their weapons Ahsoka watched the duel from She ran to the window siege of Sundari by She was shocked as buildings were rocketed Another explosion caused her to fall. It also caused Maul to lose his composure It is useless to resist. Bring me Ahsoka Tunnel and Ahsoka stood at the end of the throne room, In that moment, a sense over Maul, causing him How could he have been so blind? The Ahsoka, as she fell into the force, And yet, it was familiar. But it was only him. The Dark Warrior. None other he bore a different name, The Sith Lord, Darth Vader. Ahsoka Tunnel. What happened to you? The person you speak of is dead, Now only the Sith and the Empire prevail. Anakin is gone, and soon so are Vader approached Ahsoka She couldn't move. However, you are strong in the force. Join me and wield the power or join the rest of the Jedi Maul jumped in front of pushed forward, but he His saber had never even risen. Maul's Lord's neck by the power of the force flowing In that moment, Maul realized that Throughout all of this, eye contact with Ahsoka, In a surprise move, Gar the throne and launched He turned to react, but it pushed him, Maul, and but still, Vader managed to stand in Command the Lord! Vader Rose to meet the duel between As the two clashed, Maul held his head, With a daring leap, she her escape echoing with the Maul, too, began to slip away My lord, help me. We can take him together. I think not. You have served me Saxon once again turned In a surge of rage, Vader's the Force to seize the No one will remember you, but rest The grip intensified as Gar Saxon choked, Vader watched the armored He turned toward entirely, who went He ascends to Ahsoka. Her his way toward her path, never stopping as she descended a hallways of Sundari and nearing the She turned sharply, her steps faltering She paused briefly to catch her breathing apparatus growing louder With a surge of adrenaline and fear, the caverns and down the long stretch The sound of Vader's breathing felt She continued to run, before She breathed. She would have You cannot run forever, Ahsoka. Ahsoka turned to see Vader standing, That darkness the red light reflected He stood straight, simply watching Ahsoka. She had no choice. She ignited her lightsabers, took a Vader continued to Why... do all this? You... all! The Council Betrayal finds us all, betrayal reached far Anakin! This is not the way of the Jedi! Vader remained motionless, Anakin Skywalker is no more. Ahsoka's breath caught, pain Your demise will serve a greater purpose. The swift motion Ahsoka deftly sidestepped her She stumbled backward, These waters will be your for one who forsakes Ahsoka felt a powerful grip seize living waters as Vader wielded She struggled against break, her screams Anakin, please! Let me go! Anakin, Fear is not the way of the Jedi. Ahsoka was engulfed the Force to push her As she thrashed and fought to keep her She would surface, briefly be pulled back under by It was unclear whether Vader actions, but he stood stoically As Ahsoka was repeatedly surface, her desperate There was no escape, no reprieve. This was the end of Ahsoka Tano. And she knew it. Embrace darkness, Ahsoka Tano. Suddenly, Baal emerged from himself at Vader, igniting Vader swiftly turned to velocity pushed him No, I will not be defeated! Maul's scream echoed through the Force blast, causing the ceiling Ahsoka, gasping for the cavern shook and began The mighty push of the Force debris toward Vader, causing Vader attempted to counter it was too late. He was Maul wasted no time, water as rocks cascaded Vader struggled to escape the of debris continued to fall as the Maul and Ahsoka ran up the staircases You wanted this chaos. Move, Lady Tano! Following Maul through several arrived at a hangar bay As more Venator-class Star Destroyers descended into resistance either fled, perished, or surrendered as their Olmec and other politicians were while the supercommandos met a Ahsoka watched in solemn silence flames consuming everything in their Buried. Meanwhile, Maul piloted the Mandalore system, As Vader emerged from the rubble, And himself? Well, he had more than Despite his injuries, he was barely winded. Only knocked down. He gazed upward toward the Ahsoka! Tano! I will find you! You cannot escape your fate! Ahsoka pondered the toll of their actions. Collaborating with Maul, the betrayal of Anakin, It had all led to her Doubts gnawed at her, questioning Could she have prevented this downfall? Were her actions however Maul had saved her life, yet she couldn't It had been his idea to Could he still be trusted? As for her former master, Anakin, she He had fallen too. She had failed. Ultimately. Now she would be forced to flee. Alongside Maul. Despite the uncertainty, survival, knowing that somehow, She would always survive.