One of the most used features in Excel are because they do the calculations for us. And But if you want to save even more time, 10 Pivot Table Pro Tips that I'm going to you to do is tell me which tip is your Tip #1: The Fast Pivot. So, I have here sales. And I'm going to create a final pivot table you believe that I can create that from here to check this out. I'm going to click on Recommended down to see what we want: Salesperson by Sum to find a result. Yeah, I did kind of lie because going to be in the Home tab. So, in theory, it's Next tip is to adjust your pivot there's a gear icon here that not too many people in there. Number one is this one right here. it's much easier to locate the column if you you want to go back to the data source order, The second useful feature is the way you define I prefer, but it's not the default layout. and I find these two squashed. I prefer to be aware that there are different layouts Next tip is to use the timeline. So, the timeline is really helpful whenever you work date. We could add a timeline to this by going You're going to see any date fields in here. I to place a checkmark and click on OK. And that's so I can adjust my selections here and take a look You could change your selection to view quarters You can, for example, change the style. And if you which is something I always do, you can do that. select Duplicate, go to Format, Border, give this a name. Click on OK. Let's go and then make adjustments to your pivot table and Next tip, and this was really cool, is to use Here's what I mean. I've created a sample from different sheets, and what I want to achieve so that for each sales manager, I can click on How am I using a pivot table slicer on something using a hidden pivot table. Here's the big reveal. pivot table. All it has is the salespersons in table slicer by going to PivotTable Analyze and clicked on OK. And I got my slicer. Just adjusted how are these referencing this? Well, they're referencing this one. So, notice here the formula referencing this as well. Now, what happens if formula currently is just picking up the first count the number of items here. And if it's more use other formulas to get the result of the entire Tip #5: Only show the top or bottom quarterly report for the salespeople, but I quarter. I want to show the top three. I can we need to add the quarters in there. We don't but it doesn't matter because we have something the date and drop it here in rows. Notice what and months. Now, I'm going to remove what I don't the months. I just want to keep the years and One thing I want to do is to get rid of these on this and remove the checkmark for the subtotal. expansion buttons. You can easily do that by plus-minus buttons off. Now, let's restrict this dropdown, go to Value Filters, down here you're other way around, you wanted to show the bottom, this case, we're going to go with Top. Let's that's my sales column. If you have more value from here. We're going to click on OK. And now Next tip, type over fields to correct them. So, see Qtr1, they want to see Quarter 1. You can and notice it gets replicated to the other fields corrections in your source data, but sometimes but you want it corrected in your pivot table. can I just correct the numbers?&quot; No, you Tip #7: Repeating labels versus let's say you need to send this off to someone to assist them. You will want to have repeated. There is a setting for that. If you you can select Repeat All Item Labels, and that column, you can right-mouse click, go to Field you can repeat the item labels or choose not to if you want to design a nice layout for reporting, Right-mouse click somewhere on your pivot table, for Merge and Center Cells with Labels, Next tip is custom sort by dragging or typing. I want to have a specific sort. I want to have my eye on them. One way I can do this is just to I'm just using my mouse here. There's no keyboard. notice this says Bob. I can just type Bob shifts one cell down. And that doesn't just Next tip, calculate the difference from the change to the previous month here, or maybe I'm year. How can I do that? All we need to do is grab drag and drop it a second time to the pivot table. and select Percentage Difference From. let's say in this case, I want to get the field is months. My base item is not February, this means the previous period that is visible doesn't have any inbuilt time intelligence. month. It means the previous cell. In this case, sorting everything the other way around, you I get the change to the previous month. What if I drag sales a second time in here, right-mouse From. This time, my base field is for years, and my and I get the change to the previous year. Tip #10 is to disable double-click. So, quickly view the details of any fields, you can create a separate page with all the details. But is a way you can turn this off. Right-mouse remove the checkmark for Enable Show Details, nothing happens while this happens. Okay, so I hope you enjoyed these tips. Before you leave, don't forget to tell me which one is your favorite. And don't forget to check if you're also subscribed to the channel because if not, do consider subscribing. Thank you for being here, thank you for watching and I'm going to catch you in the next video.