Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard, where we set those who lived to entertain us, by visiting through the animated graveyards of Disney, musicians, and Imagineers who brought a little In our cemetery wanderings over the years both in the literal sense -- those named by of Hall of Fame -- as well as those who, though their immeasurable talents to create the magic marquee, but it's taken hundreds, nay, thousands to life. Animators, artists, ink and painters, effects artists, musicians, Imagineers, and stars we can remember in one video. Spoiler will be our longest video to date. So, to time if necessary, we've broken out chapters We begin today with the man who started it whose name has become synonymous with wholesome just outside the Freedom Mausoleum at Forest Walt Disney. Walt began drawing cartoons as Laugh-O-Gram Studios to produce animated cartoons. with his brother Roy, Disney Brothers Studio. Alice Comedies, featuring a live action Alice release of a cartoon with the novelty of synchronized mouse named Mickey, that really put Disney and an extension of Walt himself, who even Gosh, Pluto, a present from Australia! Oh Disney oversaw every aspect of production, in animation and entertainment, first with first cel-animated feature film, Snow White rest on his laurels, Disney expanded into and innovated the theme park industry with the most Academy Awards earned by an individual: at age 65 in 1966, not living long enough Walt Disney World. Contrary to various urban or buried at Disneyland. He was cremated, off of Pacific Palisades, the other half interred CBS news said, quote, &quot;What Walt Disney seemed grown-up in a child, there's a lot of child is brand new, gift wrapped, and Disney tried reality. He probably did more to heal, or than all the psychiatrists in the world. Today again. We'd better.&quot; working in the Ink and Paint department at of the Alice Comedies, as well as the first released), Plane Crazy. She is also credited Mouse, disapproving of Walt's first choice, in 2003. Sharon, whose ashes were scattered in Hawaii, Walt Disney's right-hand man in those very Ub Iwerks. This is the Columbarium of Remembrance niche. Walt and Ub met and began working together be the chief animator at Laugh-O-Gram, and be the first animator hired at the new Disney Oswald the Lucky Rabbit. When Disney lost on and help him create a new character. What considered the co-creator of Mickey Mouse, them into the final character. By this time, taking on the producer/storyteller role he handedly drew the early Mickey Mouse cartoons; was known not only for his animation genius, early versions of the multiplane camera, as processes, which would earn him two honorary in 1989. early days, he would have help from some young own right. To find one of them we head to This is the final resting place of animator 1927, and would work under Ub Iwerks as an being the person who draws the frames inbetween Les would continue to animate Mickey Mouse grow to become one of Disney's lead character and Cinderella. He was the first of what would of the most talented and trusted animators He worked for Disney for some 48 years until in 1989. Willie come together was Johnny Cannon. He film, he also was responsible for producing as animator at Disney, working on Mickey and Symphonies. He was just 39 when he died from Glendale. with Warner Bros Merry Melody and Looney Tunes working with Disney back in Kansas City. He as animators at Laugh-O-Gram on the early Plane Crazy. Harman and Ising left Disney an analogue of Disney's Silly Symphonies. County. bug was Friz Freleng. He too is more closely got his start with Disney in 1927, working Oswald the Lucky Rabbit. He left Disney the figure at Warner Bros animation, directing characters like Bugs Bunny, Porky Pig, and his crypt. He rests at Hillside Memorial Park We ve mentioned the Alice Comedies a number the star of Disney was a live-action little Davis. The one-reel comedies featured a live in Kansas City, but when Disney moved to Los move as well, so they could continue making over a dozen of these comedies, between 1923 1998, and we find her niche here at Holy Cross Every aspiring creative needs their first who gave Walt his first big break in Hollywood Margaret Winkler. She was head of her own which specialized in early animation. In 1923 Wonderland, to Winkler, who signed him for Bros Studio, which later became the Walt Disney Winkler. Margaret Winkler was the first female member gender by using just her initials, MJ Winkler. it's that every good narrative needs a villain her destiny. Disney historians sometimes cast Winkler's husband. He assumed control of Winkler with the Alice Comedies, Mintz requested a was Oswald the Lucky Rabbit. With the success Disney's staff, and moved production of Oswald with the faithful Ub Iwerks by his side, Disney to his creations, and worked to develop the Mickey Mouse. So, vilify Mintz if you must, done, would we have Mickey Mouse, or Snow we know today? side from day 1 was older brother Roy, who was a brilliant creative, he was a terrible Company it was up to Walt's brother Roy to funding for Walt's more ambitious projects, Seven Dwarfs, and Disneyland. After Walt Died, fulfillment of Walt's final dream, Walt Disney May Walt Disney World bring joy and inspiration happy place. of Disney World. He rests here at Forest Lawn And of course it goes without saying that be no Walt. This is the Sanctuary of Truth Parents. was a devoted and loving mother to her children. success of Snow White in 1937, Walt surprised Hollywood. Tragically, there were problems carbon monoxide. Flora died from asphyxiation himself for her death. It would haunt him was reflected in his movies, which often feature Next to Flora is Disney patriarch, Elias Disney. he always pushed his children to be their his life, including as a carpenter and contractor, his father at Disneyland. It's no coincidence that many of the Disney rest at Forest Lawn Hollywood Hills. It's Studios -- in fact the view from many of the this very cemetery. In these grounds is a pioneer of He was another major It was Fred Moore who gave Mickey Mouse the and white, pie-eye style of the early days, in a major way in 1941's Fantasia. Fred Moore's style overall was partly responsible for the transition from the early Iwerks days, we're all so familiar with. Other characters the Dwarfs in Snow White, and Lampwick in My name s Lampwick, what's yours? He was just 41 when he died in a car accident, Not far from Moore, in the Courts of Remembrance, working as an animator at Disney in the 30s, of the Evil Queen in Snow White. Next he would remembered for taking the minor character Goofy. Babbitt was one of the truly great with Disney was sometimes tumultuous, particularly named a Disney Legend in 2007. the first of which was Les Clark. We find here at Forest Lawn Hollywood. This is Eric production from the 30s to the 80s. Among Thumper in Bambi, and Prince Charming in Cinderella, in 1989. John Lounsbery. He joined Disney in 1935, become a directing animator on feature films, Timothy in Dumbo, and Tony in Lady and the Adventures of Winnie the Pooh, and The Rescuers. The remainder of Disney's nine old men are Milt Kahl, Ward Kimball, and Wolfgang Reitherman, cremated, or their resting place is unknown For our next legend of Disney animation we in Connecticut. Here lies Vladimir Tytla, who the greatest animators of all time, sometimes his skills to Disney in the mid-30s, beginning Bill was soon tapped to work with Fred Moore the characters he's best known for animating in Pinocchio, and Dumbo. He was named a Disney Our next stop brings us to Wisconsin, and of Grim Natwick. He's best known as the co-creator but Grim spent a few years at Disney in the and Mickey shorts, but his biggest contribution White to life in Snow White and the Seven We re back at Forest Lawn in the Hollywood artist Tyrus Wong made a big impact while a major role in making Bambi the beloved classic and concept paintings that would define the poetic feeling compared to other Disney And look at those dates; he lived to be 106! Disney was Iwao Takamoto, whose grave we find Hollywood. He's perhaps best known today for like Scooby-Doo, but Takamoto got his start Old Men. He was an animator on several films Beauty. once a fairly significant one: comics. The and played a major role in the global reach man known for unflaggingly good cheer who was Floyd Gottfredson, who rests here at Forest the Mickey Mouse comic strips for the next 2003. into comics. Not only did Donald Duck have series of comic books. This is Hillcrest memorial final resting place of Carl Barks. Called Disney's ducks. He collaborated on many of 40s had begun developing comic books for Donald 25 years. These comics introduced us into best-known of the characters Barks created McDuck. His work would be adapted on TV in good duck artist, was named a Disney legend The personalities and voices of our favorite very talented human beings. Walt was the original schedule made it harder and harder to do voice Disney actor, musician, and sound-effects Lawn Glendale. Hiya Pluto old pal! No no no, take it easy! He voiced the beloved character from 1946 to 1977, and was also the voice of Chip. In addition to voice work, Jimmy was what was perhaps the most impressive sound-effects sounds for hundreds of Disney short and feature Disney legend in 1993. He would mentor the Mickey Mouse, alluded to right here on his We're back at the Freedom Mausoleum of Forest for the third man to voice Mickey Mouse, just passed the torch on to Wayne Allwine to voice only filling in for the boss. Wayne did the cartoon icon alive for some 32 years, And a bah humbug, I mean, a Merry Christmas and Who Framed Roger Rabbit. Kinda dangerous, ain't it? Yeah, you could get killed. Wayne would voice Mickey until his death in 2009, and was named a Disney Legend in 2008. believe the MM3 here stands for Mickey Mouse Did you know that Mickey Mouse and Minnie married to Russi Taylor, who was the voice 1986. The two even performed together as Mickey Once Upon a Christmas. Oh Mickey, I can't believe you gave up what means the most to you, for me. Russi voiced Minnie until her death in 2019, including the new Mickey Mouse series featured Other voices Russi is known for include Huey, voices on The Simpsons. I'm not sure what perhaps? Russi Taylor was named a Disney Legend Before Russi Taylor, a number of other actresses to voice Minnie was Walt himself when Minnie first to officially voice Minnie for an extended Minnie Mouse's voice and personality, was Marcellite and Paint. Thelma Boardman then briefly took who we find here at Holy Cross in Culver City. in Mickey's Delayed Date. Oh, oh hello Minnie. Mickey Mouse, you're late for our date! I've Late? Date? Ruth also voiced Daisy Duck in Donald's Dream Voice. One of Disney's most popular characters after Mickey and Minnie, and the one with perhaps at San Fernando Mission Cemetery to find &quot;Ducky&quot; Nash. He never set out to be the world's &quot;I wanted to be a doctor, but instead became Disney in the 30s doing animal sounds when Wise Little Hen, Donald Duck's debut. Little would become one of Disney's most enduring to the incredibly unique voice and personality Oh boy! Ice cream! Raspberry! A voice that even Disney acknowledged was sometimes Send my voice in here. him right in. Hi Donald. Clarence Nash would voice Donald Duck in animated anywhere Donald could be seen or heard for 1985, and was named a Disney Legend in 1993. debut in the early 30s, and like Donald Duck, are owed to another Disney Legend, who rests Colvig, known as Pinto, was a living sound vocalizations for early Disney Shorts. In in the short, Mickey's Revue. The character anthropomorphic dog who would complete the Oh the world owes me a livin'. Those with a keen ear will hear that unmistakable voice of Pinto all over early Disney. He also and several Silly Symphony characters, including Boy. Pinto would voice Goofy until his death Legend in 1993. His grave had remained unmarked, descendants to have a marker placed. This Before Donald and Goofy arrived on the scene, the best friends of Mickey and Minnie were This is the Iris Terrace of the Great Mausoleum, was the voice of Clarabelle Cow. The anthropomorphic in 1930's The Shindig, where she was voiced Mouse. Clarabelle didn't always have spoken Elvia Allman was the woman behind the cow. Ahhhh! Lady-- Look, your house is on-- Your house is on-- She voiced the character a handful of times, beginning with Mickey's Mellerdrammer in 1933, 1990's The Prince and the Pauper. ambitious venture yet, a make or break project sound-synched feature film, Snow White and the very first of the canonical Disney Villains, now, to find the woman who voiced the Queen, Magic mirror on the wall, who is the fairest Lucille's grave remained unmarked until 2020 Wahl of Silence is Platinum to have this marker The title character of Snow White was played her death so we can't visit her, but another not far from Lucille. the seven dwarfs: Bashful. You're, you're Bashful! Oh, gosh! With the success of Snow White, Disney quickly began work on their next feature, Pinocchio. the narrator, who happens to also be a cricket known as Ukulele Ike. A conscience is that still, small voice that people won't listen to. Who me? He would also sing what would become the unofficial theme of Disney, When You Wish Upon a Star. Fun and Fancy Free, and on Disney television Legend in 2000. Glendale, where rests a vocal staple of early at Disney was as Mrs. Jumbo in 1941's Dumbo. including the Fairy Godmother in Cinderella, trick, Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo. Off with their heads! Little Princess, my gift shall be the gift She can also be heard in Lady and the Tramp, a Disney Legend yet, but if anyone deserves During the war years, Disney struggled to just so costly. They began doing live-action, being much less costly to produce. Among these in Crown hill Cemetery in Indianapolis, where portrayal of Uncle Remus in the film, James feature stars. Zip-a-Dee-Do-Dah, Zip-a-Dee-Ay... He was awarded an honorary Academy Award, for his able and heart-warming characterization the children of the world. This would make an Academy Award. Ironically, Baskett was because at that time, theaters in the south the role that was his crowning achievement to outdated racial stereotypes and offensive has never been released by Disney in the home will be. Two child actors that would become regulars in Disney productions got their start in Song Park in Oceanside, where we find a monument under personal contract at Disney, when he the South. But audiences remember him best But Peter, how do we get to Neverland? Fly, of course. It's easy! He also had a number of roles in Disney's live-action features, including as Jim Hawkins he died, but he's not actually buried here. in New York. Having no identification on him, Hart Island. This marker was later placed Another child star brought on for Song of She'd go on to be a regular in Disney's live-action Melody Time, Fun and Fancy Free, and Johnny respiratory failure, and rests here at Forest a reference to her film, So Dear To My Heart. pipeline was Cinderella in 1950. And our where we find the grave of a woman who would the 50s, Eleanor Audley. She was both the Oh yes, and the tapestries, and the draperies. Do them again! Just a few years later she would be both the voice and model of Maleficent, in Sleeping Before the sun sets on her 16th birthday, And that iconic voice can be heard reverberating as Madame Leota. Prince Charming also made his debut in Cinderella, at Valley Oaks Memorial Park in Westlake the actor who provided the speaking voice I haven't met the prince. Goodbye! will I find you? Voice-actress extraordinaire Lucille Bliss is perhaps best known as Smurfette, but including Anastasia in Cinderella. There, I knew it was my slipper! Exactly my size! You can also hear her as Daisy and Tulip in Alice in Wonderland, and a mermaid in Peter Yet another legendary voice actress can be Lucifer the cat. We're at Westwood Village June Foray. The actress known for characters had additional roles at Disney as well, including Grandmother Fa in Mulan. I should have prayed to the ancestors for luck. How lucky can they be? They're dead. Besides, I've got all the luck we'll need. Just one year after Cinderella, in 1951, came one of Disney's quirkiest and most artistically Two of the most memorable characters in the mad hatter was voiced by Hollywood's favorite here in the Great Mausoleum. Oh, this is the very best butter! What are you talking about? Tea, oh I never thought of tea. Of course! Ed would go on to perform in several live-action Disney productions, including Babes in Toyland, I was hoping you'd turn up! He was named a Disney Legend in 2013. Ed's son Keenan also rests here, an actor including Herbie Rides Again. Our next stop is San Fernando Mission cemetery, to find the constant companion of the Mad who voiced the March Hare. Here lies the great An un-birthday, if you have a birthday, then After falling down the rabbit hole, in order to enter wonderland, Alice must first pass Lawn Hollywood Hills, to find the man who voiced I simply must get through. You mean impossible. The first voice we hear in Alice in Wonderland actress Heather Angel. We find her niche here have a role in Disney's next animated feature, But Mother, I don t want to grow up. In 1955 Disney released Lady and the Tramp. on to voice a number of characters in the Darling, the Siamese twins, and Peg, a character He s a tramp, but they love him. We find this memorial bench to Peggy Lee at Westwood Village Memorial Park. feature produced by Walt while he was still instantly recognizable voices belonged to voiced Bagheera in Jungle Book. I've had it, Man-cub. From now on, you're on your own. He can also be heard in The Sword in the Stone, and perhaps most notably, as the narrator Now Pooh had some very unusual adventures, Acre Wood. When it came time to cast King Louie in The Jungle Book, Disney called on one of the great Prima, for the speaking and singing voice [music] He rests here in his home of New Orleans, at Metairie Cemetery. In The Jungle Book we also hear the legendary Phil Harris, as the lovable bear, Baloo. All you ve gotta do is look for the bare necessities... You can also hear that deep resonant voice John in Robin Hood. You know something, Robin, I was just wondering. Are we good guys or bad guys, you know, I Harris' dolphin-shaped urn rests here at Forest Lawn in Cathedral City. The next actor to play Baloo was Ed Gilbert, who we find here at Eternal Valley Memorial we remember Gilbert as the voice of Baloo We'll tell her we were attacked by air pirates! There we were, outnumbered a jillion to one! Rewinding back to the 70s, in 1973 Disney in Alabama now, and Maxwell Chapel united better known as Pat Buttram. The comedic actor half-way through puberty was perfect as the If you shoot half as good as you blabber-mouth, He also voiced Napoleon in The Aristocats, The Rescuers. Back in SoCal, we re at San Fernando Mission Cemetery, where we find Candy Candido. His in a number of animated films of this era, The tournament of the golden arrow will now begin. He was also the Indian chief in Peter Pan, Fidget in The Great Mouse Detective, and Brutus Speaking of the rescuers, let's head back the actress who voiced Miss Bianca in The can also be heard as Lisa Douglas in Green and The Rescuers Downunder. Oh, I do that all the time, Dahling. Now come on, stop worrying. She was also the voice of Duchess in The Aristocats. One of Eva Gabor's co-stars in The Aristocats Here lies Scatman Crothers, who was the voice [music] Earlier we visited the narrator of The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh. Here at Woodlawn we find the crypt of Hal Smith. The beloved Griffith Show, was the voice of Owl in Winnie Someone has pasted Piglet on my window. Well We've reached the 90s now, and the era of one of the greatest animated films ever, Beauty Hills we find Tony Jay, a man whose deep menacing Monsieur D'Arque. Marry you? Oh that is despicable. I love it! Years later he would voice Frollo in The Hunchback Beauty and the Beast took its stylistic cues to play a talking candelabra named Lumiere Jerry Orbach. So, you fall in love with her, she falls in love with you, and poof! The spell is broken! He would reprise the role wherever Lumiere appeared until his death in 2004. Jerry Orbach Cemetery in New York. Carrie Fisher, she was our princess, loved by millions the world over for her role as was no damsel in distress or a shrinking violet; and stood her own with the boys. She first by the rest of the original trilogy, before The Force Awakens. Rey, may the Force be with you. Tragically Carrie died just after finishing rests here at Forest Lawn Hollywood Hills who died one day later. Carrie was named a In the 1990s Disney teamed up with Pixar to of which was Toy Story in 1995. For the voice called on the acerbic talents of insult comic, Hey Ham, look, I'm Picasso! You uncultured swine! He played Mr. Potato Head in all 4 Toy Story films, though having passed away in 2017 before had to use archive recordings of Mr. Rickles. in Los Angeles. Let's turn back the clock a bit and shift focus to Disney's live action and television comedy would also feature its first Disney film The Shaggy Dog. Okay, Pop. Fred would appear in 7 Disney features in all, including The Absent-Minded Professor, individual honored as a Disney Legend, in Cross in Culver City. 50s can be found here at Santa Barbara Cemetery. kid in the 50s as Davy Crockett. He appeared World of Disney, beginning in 1954, becoming No, how'd you kill that brute? I was figuring on grinning him to death, but and busted up my concentrate. He even had a gold record in The Ballad of Davy Crockett. Other Disney productions Parker a Disney Legend in 1991. The coonskin cap rage with kids in the 50s. If 50s kids weren't wearing their coonskin caps, they may well have been wearing Mickey Mouse Club, a variety show that first aired Hills where we find the head mouseketeer, [music] Not only did he host as master of ceremonies, but Jimmie Dodd also wrote many of the songs theme. He was named a Disney Legend in 1992. At the top of the hill are the Courts of Remembrance here at Forest Lawn. Along this wall of crypts This is Roy Williams. He began at Disney as large stature and gentle demeanor would make Mickey Mouse Club, bestowing on him the nickname Hey, what s going on here? We are the merry mouseketeers! Roy is also responsible for having designed the mouse ears that have become synonymous theme parks. He was inspired after seeing The Karnival Kid. Williams was named a Disney At Disney, many of the young artists would projects as directors, writers, producers, rests here in the Great Mausoleum of Forest in the early 30s, becoming the first animator Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. As supervising herself. After the success of Snow White, directing. He would direct or co-direct many Pinocchio, Cinderella, Alice in Wonderland, the cartoon sequences of Mary Poppins, Ham Legend in 1999. Dawn of Tomorrow, we find Joe Grant. His early of the Evil Queen in Show White. Grant would men, writing and developing movies like Fantasia, of Lady was inspired by his own English Spaniel but would return 40 years later, in 1989, for films like Beauty and the Beast, Pocahontas, was named a Disney legend in 1992. Over now to Forest Lawn Hollywood Hills, we find Jack Hannah. He's known for his work then as a director, including most of the credited for helping create the personality this era. He also directed the fan-favorite, move into television, writing and directing was named a Disney Legend in 1992. Just up the road, in this same section, across the street from the red church we find Bill not unlike those seen in Bambi. He joined quickly developed as a leading story man. Alice in Wonderland, and Peter Pan. He would go on to be Sword in the Stone, which in addition to writing, Bill Peet was named a Disney Legend in 1996. Back to Forest Lawn Glendale, this is Winston Hibler, another of the great story men of The Adventures of Ichabod Crane and Mr. Toad, Cinderella. When Disney began producing nature for his smooth voice. He was also a series of Disney. Winston Hibler was named a Disney Among those in the next generation of great here at Mountain View Cemetery in Altadena. at Disney before moving into the story department, Hood, and The Great Mouse Detective. In later designing characters for films including Pocahontas, We're back just feet from where Walt Disney was a producer who worked mainly on Disney's Disney's first live-action comedy, the Shaggy Davy Crockett, and The Mickey Mouse Club. in his career, for both co-writing and co-producing include Bedknobs and Broomsticks, and The Legend in 1991. An oft-overlooked aspect of film production is sound, but it was sound that made Disney Cemetery in Culver City, where rests William who helped Disney record the sound for Steamboat the following years in making Disney's cartoons early sound for film, including stereo sound, Academy Award for Fantasia, for the outstanding pictures. Bill Garity also developed the advanced animations a sense of depth through parallax, and also seen in fly-through village sequences He was named a Disney Legend in 1999. Disney exploded onto the scene in 1928 with it was the novelty of synchronized music and continue to play a central role in the rise the Silly Symphonies -- short animations whimsically is often the emotional heart of Disney's productions. Not bad for a dead guy! You re not so bad yourself, Gordito. It's taken an incredible lineup of composers and songwriters, spanning multiple generations, us back to our childhoods. Let's meet a few This is the Abbey of the Palms at Hollywood wall, the crypt of Carl Stalling. The prolific Melody cartoons actually got his start with City. Walt would hire Carl Stalling to score and Gallopin Goucho, subsequently naming him to scoring Mickey shorts, Stalling would also he devised with the idea of crafting music the ever-popular Skeleton Dance. And here's a fun fact: by Mickey Mouse were not actually voiced by Karnival Kid. And what were Mickey's first Hot dog! Hot dog! There's one tune that has become synonymous with Disney, its signature tune, the main at Valhalla Cemetery, in the Mausoleum of Harline. The Salt Lake City-born composer [music] The song was written for Pinocchio in 1940, and would be the first Disney song to win Ned Washington. The score for Pinoccchio earned from When You Wish Upon a Star now opens just castle logo. Harline also composed the of Silly Symphonies, like The Grasshopper [music] Such a humble resting place for a man whose music is known and loved by likely billions a Disney Legend in 2001. composers. We're in the Freedom Mausoleum J. Smith. Along with Leigh Harline and others, including Snow White, and Pinocchio, which nominations in addition to his win for his Caballeros, and Cinderella. Live action Disney Parent Trap, and Pollyanna, as well as Disney's 1985 Paul Smith was laid to rest here with niche. He was named a Disney Legend in 1994. We leave LA for Ellensburg, Washington, and visit the Independent Order of Odd Fellows musician. This is where Oliver Wallace is Paul Smith to score Cinderella in 1950, which Cinderella Wallace had written Oscar-winning of a song, Pink Elephants on Parade. [music] Other feature animations include Alice in Wallace's skills were also called upon for Toad, as well as Donald Duck's theme song [music] Oliver Wallace was named a Disney Legend in 2008. Back in LA, we re at Forest Lawn Glendale. Here we find another of the great tunesmiths perhaps best known for penning the music to Disney films. He had a chart-topping hit with in 1933, written for the Silly Symphony, The on to his first animated feature, giving us [music] Heigh-Ho, [music] and Someday My Prince Will Come. [music] Churchill would go on win an Oscar for penning music for the film Dumbo, which included the [music] Frank Churchill was named a Disney Legend in 2001. This is Fir Hill Cemetery in Sandy, Oregon. In these grounds we find the final resting the 1950s, and found early success in Disney's writing The Ballad of Davy Crockett, which of the 50s. He earned 4 Oscar nominations Toyland, Robin Hood, The Sword in the Stone, find yourself at Disneyland or Disneyworld Me, you can thank George Bruns. He wrote the Bruns was named a Disney Legend in 2001. We find ourselves now at Indian Hill Cemetery in Middletown Connecticut. This is where Allie for writing a song that is perhaps second with Disney, a song that perfectly encapsulates [music] The song was written by Wrubel in 1946, with lyrics by Ray Gilbert, for the film Song of no longer shown, the song itself has endured, Mountain. It won Wrubel and Gilbert the Oscar for best song, and was ranked #47 on AFI's list of Many of the composers we've featured so far words to their songs. Among them was Ned Washington, Cemetery in Culver City. Ned Washington teamed When You Wish Upon a Star. As mentioned, the nominated for writing the lyrics to Baby Mine songwriters hall of fame, and was named a The next generation of great Disney songwriters at Hillside Cemetery now, in Culver City, Richard, the Sherman Brothers are responsible tunes ever to come out of Disney. In the 1960s They're perhaps best remembered for their Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious, [music] Chim Chim Cher-ee, which won them the Oscar, [music] and Feed the Birds, which would become Walt [music] That same year they wrote the song It's a Small World After All, for the World's Fair, your head, song of all time. Other productions Broomsticks, The Jungle Book, and the Many Brothers were portrayed in the 2013 film, in 1990. We're back again at Forest Lawn in the Hollywood Hills, in the Sheltering Hills section. Here the songs for Winnie the Pooh, but another the Pooh films, Buddy Baker. He arrived at various television productions. Other of his Hound in 1981. Later in life he became music crafting music for many of Disney Park's attractions. parks is Grim Grinning Ghosts from the Haunted [music] Baker spent his final years mentoring the next generation of film composers, and was The late 80s, early 90s, were known as a renaissance is owed to the brilliant work of our next at Oheb Shalom Memorial Park in Baltimore, with musician Alan Menken to write songs for fortunes in 1989, The Little Mermaid. In an its last leg, The Little Mermaid splashed animation, and infectiously memorable music. Part of Your World, [music] and Under the Sea, which earned Ashman and [music] Next would come one of the most successful animated films of all time, Beauty and the like Be Our Guest, [music] and Beauty and the Beast, which won Ashman [music] But this award would be posthumous as, tragically, Ashman died of AIDS-related complications released. After his death, some of his songs Like Me. Howard Ashman was named a Disney of the documentary, Howard. more song... If you've ever walked down main street at names painted on the windows. These names and women who made significant contributions Walt Disney Imagineering, originally WED Enterprises, to shift away from animation, to other forms enterprise? To design and build Disneyland. remember some of the talented Imagineers, of Disney off the screen and into the real In 1952, Walt hired art director Richard Irvine architectural firm that would build Disneyland. were among the best to design the park -- Disneyland than an industrial eye. Thus Walt formed WED figure in the construction of Disneyland, 20-year career at Disney Imagineering, Irvine of the park's attractions, including Pirates The Haunted Mansion. He rests here at Forest a Disney Legend in 1990. Walt would call on some of his most talented artists to help bring his vision of Disneyland Renaissance artist, John Hench, who rests of the original Imagineers, and his first for the original Tomorrowland, eventually portions of Adventureland. He would go on Cinderella's Castle, and later helped develop special effects in 20,000 Leagues Under the portrait painter of Mickey Mouse. The world a Disney Legend in 1990. This is the Columbarium of the Evening Star at Forest Lawn Glendale, where we find a number president of Disney Imagineering, then known at Disney, writing for several of Disney's Queen and Wicked Witch sequences in Snow White. Walt would rely heavily on Bill's creativity phase of Disneyland. He wrote storylines for Adventures. He was named a Disney legend having married Lillian's sister. and Paint Department at Disney, making her to serve as head of a division. The department heroes of Disney animation, who translated the final inked-and-painted cels that we see Snow White. worked on the masterplan and layout of Disneyland, Castle. Davis would also be the master site World. He was named a Disney Legend in 1994. We're at Mount Sinai Cemetery now, adjacent to Forest Lawn Hollywood Hills, where rests where he would help design the Enchanted Tiki vice president of concepts and planning, guiding Prototype Community of Tomorrow. He was a throughout his career as principal creative design and construction of Disney's global Disneyland Paris, and Hong Kong Disney. He grand opening of all Disney parks. Marty Sklar At Forest Lawn Glendale, not far from where he was known for his rich background paintings, and Pinocchio. When Walt began work on Disneyland, upon to bring the magic of his artwork to for the sets that would become rides like Ride, and The Haunted Mansion. He would continue throughout his life, and was named a Disney We're back at Forest Lawn in the Hollywood Walt Disney Company between 1984 and 1994. saw unprecedented growth. With Michael Eisner Parks, with rides like Star Tours, Splash in creating Disneyland Paris, and growing Wells died in a helicopter crash in 1994. in his honor, and he became a Disney Legend Actors and performers aren't only seen on of many to entertain us right within the parks. find here at Cathedral Memorial Gardens in bass voice of his generation, including as a Mean One, Mr. Grinch. He lent his voice Dalmatians, but you'll also hear the distinctive parks, including in the Enchanted Tiki Room, and as one of the singing busts in the Haunted He was named a Disney Legend in 1995. Leaving LA behind a moment we visit Evergreen-Washelli Memorial Park in Seattle Washington. Here known to a generation of Disneyland visitors Sue in Disneyland's Golden Horseshoe Revue, for an astounding 45,000 performances over her perform over the years. [music] She died one day after her performing partner, Legends in 1995. One of the great innovations that Disney brought to its parks from the 1964 World's Fair was when they saw a moving, talking Abraham Lincoln Los Angeles National Cemetery, where rests provide the voice of Abraham Lincoln. The world has never had a good definition of the word Liberty. Dano had played Lincoln on TV a number of times, and was therefore the perfect choice. We're at Inglewood Park Cemetery now, southwest of LA. Here we find the final resting place The diminutive star began her career to look for a performer to wow crowds at Disneyland the age of 70, Tiny Kline was cast in the a wire from Sleeping Beautyss Castle to the She played the role until her death in 1964. We head north to Holy Cross Cemetery to find our next legend of Disney Parks: Xavier Atencio, and story writer at Disney, including for X to write stories and narrations for rides. of the Caribbean. of fun-loving pirates. Not only that, he penned the lyrics for the song Yo-Ho! Yo-Ho! A Pirates Life for Me. skull at the beginning of the ride. His next the script for The Haunted Mansion, and the He lived to be 98 and was named a Disney Legend X is one of several Imagineers whose name Haunted Mansion. Our final stop on our tour through the animated graveyards of Disney brings us back to where of visitors to Disneyland may not know the her face, as the character of Madame Leota Leota began her career at Disney in the Ink take her skills as a craftswoman to WED, working and the Haunted Mansion. They needed a model in a crystal ball in the Haunted Mansion, Though, as mentioned earlier, the overdubbed hear at the end of the ride, Little Leota of Leota Toombs. Hurry baaaack. She was named a Disney Legend in 2009. Be sure to bring your death certificate. And that concludes our tour. What are some in the comments below, and as Little Leota Thanks for watching, we'll see you on the Here's some food for thought for all you Disney deer, who daily graze among the graves of of the very deer Disney used to animate Bambi?