- no! - i want it. - in my search for the ultimate
home theater experience, i explored microled displays that would've cost hundreds
of thousands of dollars, necessitated additional
power circuitry to the room and a dedicated air conditioning unit, just to cool it. and jake was all like: - "that's really stupid. you should get one of these." - ah! instead, this is
the ls12,000b from epson and it promises to be a really heavy and b the best bang for the
buck projector on the market by a country mile. literally you could spend
four times the amount just to get image quality
parody, nevermind better. and today i finally get to experience! i've had to look at this for so long! (jake chuckles) just like i'm always
looking for opportunities to tell you about our sponsor. - seasonic! seasonic's focus
plus 750w gold power supply is fully modular and features both at 80 plus gold rating and a 12 year warranty. learn more through the links below. (upbeat music) - i can't believe you fired this thing up without even like calling
me over to see it. - yeah, i set it up on my
desk with the office lights which are so bright and i was like, "wow, this looks great!" - i'm so excited! - i can't imagine what it's
gonna look like in an empty room but wait, where's the screen? we need to put up a screen. you can't just-
- i fricking just- - there's an electrical box right here. what are you... - no, no, we can just turn it on. - you know, i can be down. - we actually reached out
to epson about checking out one of their flagship projectors ages ago, like back when we started the house. - no, for the lounge. - right! - so we had the 6050ub. this is supposed to be the new 6050ub. - i mean, they've told, they told us. they're like, "yeah, i
mean our stuff is good, but wait till you see
what we've got coming. - and i think because of
covid supply constraints, it took a little bit longer. i feel like their
original estimate was like november of last year and we, oh my god! did you actually just do that? oh my god. oh my god. oh my god. did you get that on camera? - no, don't get that on camera. - oh my god. i can't believe you just did that. - i just wanted to- - did you hear the noise it made? (projector crashes) - i just wanted, i wanted to show the shutter for the... look at this lens! (jake chuckles) shut up! (jake chuckles) - did you hear the noise it made? (crashing sound) at least it's a laser and not a lamp. (jake chuckles) - [mark] thanks epson! - to be clear, this is still
an expensive piece of kit at 5,000 us dollars, but it features a solid
state laser light source that can push 2,700 lumens, it does 4k and up to 120 hertz. so, i'm actually expecting the gaming experience on
this thing to be decent. - gaming experience being good? this thing is less than
20 milliseconds delay in a projector. you literally, you can
spend $50,000 on a projector and still have worse latency. - of course, brightness isn't everything when it comes to projection. - you can have great highlights but if you don't have good lows, it's not gonna be a great image, right? - it's because of the way
your pupils will dilate to match whatever amount of
ambient light is in the room. - it's rated to 2.5 million
to one dynamic contrast, and unlike the projector
we have in the lounge that has an iris that adjusts. - the whole image. - yeah, this makes use of multiple lasers. i think they said there's about 15 and they can kind of dim
them or shut them off. and also it uses the lcd panels to try to block lights. - so wait, this effectively has like- - it's kind of like local dimming. - local dimming.
- yeah. (linus screams) - it's pretty cool. can we talk about this for a moment? epson, love you guys, but come on. this is like quite
literally an inch thick. (linus chuckles) - what the heck? (jake and linus chuckle) okay, so power goes in here. oh, we should talk input. so its got hdmi 2.1, two of them, which i mean, i can't imagine
myself running two hdmi plugs to the projector, but i guess, oh, you know, if you wanna throw like a
dongle or something on there and power it with usb then you got your chromecast
or whatever directly on it. but everything's gonna
go through the receiver for our setup. - [jake] you know what
that usb's actually for? - what's that for? - [jake] it's supposed to be for powering an active optical cable. - oh, that's so cool! i absolutely love it. - [jake] but then you got- - this one. - [jake] yeah, you're chromecast off that. - this one for power. that's awesome. this is for control with
third party systems. this is also for just
having like an ir receiver somewhere else that can
control this bad boy. and then lan, because
everything is smart now. i'm turning it on. i'm firing my laser. oh, no way, it's motorized! - of course it's motorized. are you kidding me? - i thought the shade was manual. - no! - that's sick! - [jake] oh, there you go. - now our camera operator, hey mark, noted that the lighting
really changed in here 'cos the sun came out. so that's why everything
looks kind of weird right now. but that's a great thing
for us to talk about because as part of getting the best projector
experience possible, you need to completely
light control your room. we are talking blackouts
here and check this out, this is amazing! okay, look at this. see, we got a little strip
of weather stripping stuff right here, and when it closes, it hits the doorframe, whoop and goes down. so you don't get any light leakage. - [jake] or sound. (hinge clicks) - holy crap! this window is gonna need
some serious blacking out. - [jake] oh i was gonna double up the- - well yeah, i guess i will, then. is that airflow or is that? - no, that's light. (jake chuckles) - wow! okay. - but, listen to how quiet it is. - oh, that's totally fine. - you were asking about zoom before. - yeah, yeah. we have optical zoom, so why do we need to move it around relative to how big we want the- - the thing with zoom is
when you start to use it you lose a bit of light. - i see. - so generally you want to put it like at the absolute minimum. - so then if we can, which we can, we should put it where we
should, which we should. - yes.
- okay. - but i mean, yes you can, you can totally just- - [linus] oh wow! that's a lot of zoom. - [jake] yeah, it's like
2x or something like that. it's quite a bit. - yep, right about there. cool, okay. (measuring tape squeaks) - oh, it looks so thinner
now that i saw the big one. - but look at it this way. if you had a tv, it
would've been like here. (jake chuckles) - yeah, all right. - if you really want, down the road we could
get a bigger screen. - yeah, i think we should. - okay. - let's start with this though. this is good. - wow! look how bright, the studio lights on
in this room right now. - i know, and it's like actually usable. - oh, let's shut 'em off. lets see.
- yeah. - [jake] here's a one. (jake screams) and there's two. (jake laughs) we're not even close to fully
light controlled in here, but. - that is fricking amazing! - the big difference
between this projector and the one we have in the lounge is this is full, full 4k pixel shift. so it shifts over and down. the one in the lounge only shifted over, so you got around 4 million
pixels on the screen. this is like the full
8.3 that you would get with a native 4k projector. you're probably wondering, why they didn't go native
4k for this, right? - like this is premium product. why not just have a full 8 million pixels? - well, it's premium,
but it's only five grand. - right. - so part of it is cost. when you switch to 4k native lcds, there's three of them in there. you got your red, green, and your blue and they get combined. when you switch 'em to 4k, you need roughly three times as much light to get the same amount
of light on the screen. - more heat, more power. - more noise usually. - yeah. - but what they'll do to compensate is make the projector
way bigger, way heavier. and usually it ends up being
louder, even with all that. and of course, obviously
the price goes up. so for five grand, they're like, yeah. it gets basically the same thing. - i'm down, i'm in. - yeah, and look how sharp it is. - can we put content on it now? - yeah, let's turn off the lights again. - let's do it. - oh, i brought a few things. we've got an nvidia shield, so we can do some 4k movies and stuff. - cool. - i brought a 3090 equipped test bench, so we can play some games and stuff. (linus shouts in excitement) - don't you ever! - got some xbox controllers. - oh yeah! - dude, cranking this thing 4k 120. - there's a hdmi 2.1, thanks to infinite cables. i guess we should tell them
about the cabling setup. - you can't see it, but up in the ceiling, somewhere up here, there is cables. there's an optical hdmi
2.1 as well as power, and i think we actually
mad two hdmi cables, just in case. - yeah, when they do the
finishing for the room, i think one goes to the cabinet there and one goes to the server room. - the mechanical room, yeah. you ready to switch off the light? - well, we don't have sound yet. - oh! - are we gonna do that today? - like move some speakers in? - should we? seems like a lot of work, just to drag them back out. - we could just use the projector speaker. (linus hisses) (jake chuckles ) do we have an extra pair
of outdoor speakers? - yes. - that would work. those guys right there. - yeah, that would be pretty quick. oh no. no, no! - [jake] you're good, you're good, you're good, it's fine. now, you're not good. you actually grabbing it, made it worse. - here's the plan. hopefully (indistinct)
packed this really well. that's a controlled drop. - hi, you're just like a courier. where the hell is the receiver? is it behind those
ceiling speakers, maybe? - no, i just moved those there. - i got a tower, tower, subwoofer. - oh my god. (jake chuckles) jake, i found it. - [jake] what? is it like awful? - it's tremendously awful. - [jake] what? i can't,
it can't be that bad. (jake laughs loudly) (beep) bad! - i'm just gonna climb a coach. - i meant the other coach. okay, see you later. - [linus] oh crap, it's heavy! - [jake] it's very heavy. - [linus] oh this sucks! - what are you even doing there? - this might be bad. (jake chuckles) - how are you sideways? - oh shoot. okay, new plan, new plan. we're going up and over. - oh god! yeah, put the heavy thing really high up. - [linus] yeah. - great idea. - okay. - glutes looking good, man. - thank you. (jake screaming) - oh (beep) (jake laughs) joking, i'm joking. i'm not you. hey linus, i think we can throw less shade at epson. i actually think this is thicker. (linus and jake chuckle) - for a receiver, yeah. i'll show you mine if you show me yours. - let's see. (linus chuckles) it is. - at its thickest point, i think you win. - yeah. - but mine, averages. - you might have like
more square centimeters or cubic centimeters, sorry. - okay. - oh my god. - can i help with that. (beep) - i always forget how absolutely
insane this receiver is. like, look at that io. (jake chuckles) holy (beep) - that is amazing. - [jake] oh! and once the walls are black. - yeah, there's actually a
ton of light in this room just bouncing off of this wall. that's one of the big
reasons that in a media room, you need to have everything blacked out. carpet, walls, ceiling. - [jake] sorry. - okay, like that. - [jake] there you go,
there's dynamic mode. now it's even brighter. - holy crap! what? - [jake] so, dynamic is not gonna be... i mean, even for dynamic
mode, it looks not bad. - this looks amazing! - [jake] usually dynamic
mode looks like (indistinct) wow! - jake, microled would've
been a huge mistake. you were right, this is amazing. - [jake] we haven't even
put a screen on yet. - i know, i've got a
fricking electrical box in the middle of the image and
i'm already mesmerized by it. look at this! - [jake] you're also like
standing like right up against it. - [linus] yeah but that's the thing, it's like, it looks better
from farther away, like. - yeah, it's very sharp. - [linus] there's no screen door at all. - [jake] oh my god! that's bright. - [linus] that's crazy! - [jake] it kinda hurts my eyes. - this is a showcase of hdr, if i've ever seen one. (jake chuckles) time to play some games! you know what? i'm kind of not even
feeling like bothering putting the screen on here
and risking damaging it while they finish up. honestly, this is just like- - if we're already at this level already and it's only gonna get
better with the screen. - i'm satisfied! clearly we're sticking
with this solution, so. (jake chuckles) look at this graph. it doesn't even get to reach
a steady state and download. it's just done. - [jake] all the updates? - [linus] done! holy crap. i can't believe i'm
gonna be downloading it over 200 megabytes a second, at home. - [jake] it's a game changer. look at the cpu usage though. - [linus] 30% of a threadripper 32-core. - [jake] 240 mega (laughs loudly) oh my god, we're gonna hit 250. holy (beep) - that's amazing! there is so much spill from
this room being so white and yet it still looks really good. - yeah, i was thinking about how the shadows look a tiny bit washed out but it is totally just because
this room is uber white. - yeah. - [jake] and once the
screen surround is all black it's gonna look so good. - it's gonna look amazing. in the dark, i don't know
that i would be able to tell that it's not a tv. - it looks great. i mean, it's not oled level blacks, like don't get me wrong. - - no. - but it's like very good. - a very good lcd. - yeah. this game is so funny. it's so arcadey, it's not even funny. - oh, i know. - i can see how you'd like it. 'coz it's just automatic drift god. like, "oh, look at this!" oh what? - oh wait! - no. - we share controls. (linus and jake laugh) - stop it. - hello, dude? - oh is this, oh sorry. is this making it difficult for you? - yeah, thanks. thanks, that's great. that's perfect. - yeah, remember when
this game was relevant for like two weeks. - yeah. - [mark] and then it came out. (linus and jake chuckle) - oh! (indistinct) though. - roasted! (linus and jake exclaim) - [linus] oh okay, that's
maybe too much hdr. (linus chuckles) - oh, okay. so we're just a little juiced here. okay, that's a little less eye searing. - [jake] it's still pretty. - [linus] it's very hdr like when you catch a glint of the
sun off the back of the car and stuff, like it's. - [jake] yeah, the shadow's
got a lot of detail. i definitely think we
could tweak this more, but. - i love it. - the responsiveness though! - and i love our sponsor. did you just fart? - jackery makes solar
ready portal power stations designed to improve outdoor life by providing power outdoors whenever and wherever you need it. their explorer 1500 portable power station has enough juice to keep
all your devices powered and connected. it's huge 1500 watt-hour capacity and'00 watt output rate allows up to seven devices to
be plugged in simultaneously. it only takes four hours
to recharge the sucker from zero to 80%. so check out the explorer
1500 at the link below and get, guess what? 10% off. 10% off with the code "linustechtips." 10% off. - if you guys enjoyed this video, go check out the rest of
the home upgrade series. we are finally coming to the end, but man what a journey! - dude, there's so many
more videos to make still. - i know! (jake chuckles) we're gonna have to do the family room, the downstairs. we're gonna have to do something- - actually set up the projector room. - yep, get all the audio
set up for everything. - oh god! - we gotta actually show how
all of the home automation for the heating and cooling works. - oh, you're gonna die. you died. - see you later!