- you never forget your first gpu, all the good memories you had and the bad. but all good things must come to an end. i don't wanna play with you anymore, or must they? can an old gpu still game? last summer, we looked at
the eight year old 780 ti shortly after nvidia announced that they would drop driver support for it and found that it was still
a pretty capable card. and it's far from the
only gpu on the market that might have the grunt to play games, but is no longer receiving active support. and with most modern games
now targeting the latest generation of consoles, we set out to find out just
how screwed over you are if the last time you got a driver update, people other than your weird
aunt still used facebook. and to find out how screwed i would be if i didn't tell you about our sponsor. glasswire. are you having
poor quality video meetings? use glasswire and
instantly see what apps are wasting your bandwidth during
your meeting and block them. get 25% off today using code
"linus" at the link below. we began our investigation
by plopping these five gpus onto our ryzen 5800 x test bench and picking 25 aaa titles
from the last few years and boy did this ever
get interesting fast. now, some ground rules. when we call a title
playable in this video, we mean that it runs at
1080p on the minimum settings available in game
without any hacky tweaks, with a stable average frame
rate of greater than 30 fps. yellow means that we were
able to launch the game but it walked more than ran. and red means that it wouldn't
launch or it would crash. okay? we'll start by revisiting
the 780 ti that now has both of its feet firmly in
the driver support grave. out of the 25 games we tested, it was able to play 16
of them without issue. and except for doom eternal 5, all of the titles that couldn't
run are from 2021 or later. so even though you aren't getting game ready driver releases, you're actually still
in a pretty good spot as long as you're not
dying to play new hits like halo infinite, elden ring, or god of war. but what if we go older? the gtx 480 came out three
years earlier in 2010 and it received its last driver in 2018 to provide optimal gaming
experience for far cry 5. and wow did this ever
thing age like fine milk? out of the 25 games we tested, it only managed five of them. all of which were ever amongst
the oldest in our suite or more basic free to
play and e-sports titles. now i confess we included this one mostly out of morbid curiosity, but next up is the beastly
power guzzling radeon hd 6990. despite being released 11 years ago, it's paid for specs
indicate that it should have about the same horse power as a 1050 ti. unfortunately, it's just
as bad as team green. worse actually since it can't really run shadow of the tomb raider
and draws almost 400 watts. just like life, the older we
get, the less we can play, right? how about we turn our gaze to something a little newer? like our new cable ties at lttstore.com. so many pretty colors. right. and the r9380x. a couple of months before
nvidia pulled support for the 780 ti, amd did the same for its substantially, newer
200, 300 and fury series gpus. and this caused quite a stir
given that the three adx in particular was released
just in late 2015. though in fairness, i can kind of see why amd
didn't want to support it since not a lot of people bought it. it was priced as an upper mid-range card. and honestly, for the performance didn't make a ton of sense. the mid 2010s were pretty
rough for a poor old amd but look at this, except
for just three games. this thing rides, baby. this card is only slightly more performant than a 1050 ti just like the hd 6990. so why has the game
compatibility done a'0, they're both from amd? well, two main reasons. one is that the 6990 is a
whack card having two gpus on the same pcb. but the bigger reason is feature support. the 380 x isn't getting new drivers, sure. but it does support directx 12 which is a requirement
for many newer games or at least it kind of does. thing is, we often talk about
directx as if it's a single monolithic thing, but really
it's more of a collection of apis that microsoft
developed way back in 1995, to help with multimedia development, especially game programming. it includes tools for developing
for sound, 2d applications, text rendering, maybe
you've heard of x input for controllers. they're
all part of directx. and what's great about these
industry standard tools is that borrowing any unforeseen
bugs, a compliant piece of hardware running a compliant driver should be able to run a compliant
piece of software or game without special tweaks. within this suite of
apis then is direct3d. now, obviously a game
that has great 3d graphics but no sound and no controller support wouldn't be a very good game. so you can't say that
one api is more important than the rest, but typically
microsoft does align the naming of each version of directx
with the accompanying version of direct3d, which is
why our directx 12380x handled newer directx 12 games so well. at least to the best of
its geriatric abilities, but linus, you might
say, it says right here that the gtx 480 also supports directx 12, why can't it play all
of my directx 12 games? here's the thing. software development never really stops. and many of the apis within
directx 12 have received significant updates since they launched and that includes direct3d. these updates are called feature levels and they're a good thing. they provide new tools and new functions for developers to use and gamers to enjoy. but while the newer feature
levels are inclusive of the older levels,
meaning that your new gpu can almost certainly run your older games, sometimes a new feature level will contain forward looking functionality
that requires newer hardware in order to be effectively
utilized or even to run it all. and this is where our
soup gets a little murky. direct3d 11, which was
released with windows 7 as part of directx 11 covers
feature levels nine one to 12 one. direct3d 12 came with windows
10 as part of directx 12 and spans feature 11 zero
to 12 two and beyond. so you see that? how there's
a little bit of overlap there. that means that while
the 480 is technically a directx 12 gpu, it only supports the most
basic 11 zero feature level of direct3d. that means anything that's been added in the four feature levels
that have come since are unsupported. and making
matters more complicated, this card is so old, it doesn't
actually have full support for the highest feature
level of directx 11 either. so in a nutshell, that directx number really doesn't tell you the whole story. it's actually a gpu's
compliance with more modern feature levels that
will make it compatible with newer games. and you can see this in our
results for the gtx titan black. while games did run better, its compatibility was actually
identical to the 780 ti because it's running the same
physical hardware architecture and the same drivers. so any game that requires
a feature that your card doesn't support, pretty
much puts you up poo creek without a paddle, sort of. if you're not happy with
the drivers that amd has left you with, for example, you might say, well, why
don't we just make our own? and that's exactly what
the gaming community did. these are pretty cool. but before we dive in, they
are not official drivers, and we can't guarantee that you
won't encounter major issues nor can we personally
certify that these drivers are completely safe to
download and install. but from our point of
view, it's your hardware, you can do what you want, just like we do what we
want and emulate games. the 100% legal way. get subscribed so you
don't miss that video. now amd has gotten a
pretty bad rap in the past for releasing poorly optimized drivers especially for their older cards. for example, the final
drivers for the 380 x play halo infinite, a title that the card should theoretically support
if directx compliant charts are anything to go by,
but play it like this. (gunshots blasting) yeah. this history of bad
drivers spurred on development by the community to create drivers that better serve the hardware and respect the customers
who bought these cards, and the ones we're gonna
use to fix this issue are referred to as nimez
drivers or amernime, nimez drivers or amernime zone drivers and they work great. look at that, we can
play halo infinite now. in fact, we can play all of the games that were giving us issues on the 380x. and according to users
of these modern drivers, we should even expect big
improvements and performance for applications that use
both open cl and open gl. for our part though, we didn't find much
difference in performance in the games we tested, but fellow youtuber budget
builds official showed that the 10 year old amd hd 7870 which is actually based on
a very similar architecture to this card, can run games
like red dead redemption 2 and halo infinite rather
well, which is very cool. another great thing about
these drivers is that they're really easy to install, no
red edits or editing inf files required, and they don't seem to break any anti cheat software. there are also other workarounds
for directx 12 support. using dxvk or d3dvk, you can use a compatibility
layer to translate directx 12 api calls to vulcan,
which this card supports and is pretty much how
proton works on linux. though in this case, you'd
actually be doing it on windows. we decided against testing
this since the scope of this video had already
crept pretty high, but let us know if you've had success or if you'd like to see
a follow up about that. it should also be noted
that these drivers, while in impressive, do have their limits. they're not gonna turn your
hardware into a magic card that gets double the
fps and all of a sudden supports directx ray tracing or anything. and we weren't able to find any
equivalent for nvidia users, at least for now. but for team red users, they have the potential
to improve performance, stability and especially
compatibility, which is great. so if you need something to tide you over until prices settle, you
can rest assured that until directx 12 ultimate
features become standard, you can expect pretty solid
compatibility for a couple of more years, even with an older card. and solid compatibility between
your wallet and our sponsor. - freshbooks. when building a business
that you're passionate about, it's easy to feel like there
aren't enough hours in the day. and if you're doing all the
invoicing and accounting on your own, you're probably
spending time on work you don't love. freshbooks is built for
business owners like you. it's the all in one accounting software that saves entrepreneurs and freelancers up to 11 hours a week. that's 11 hours you can
spend nailing a client pitch, serving your customers
or honing your craft. from building, sending and
following up on invoices to tracking and managing expenses, to processing online payments. freshbooks automates and
simplifies all the tough and annoying parts of
running your own business. it's also super easy
to get up and running. and the award-winning freshbooks
support team is always available to answer questions. try freshbooks free for 30 days, no credit card required by
going to freshbooks.com/linus and get back more time to
build a business you love. check out our video, where we
use hacked in video drivers to turn a mining gpu
into one that could game. look at us go, saving the world, keeping one gpu outta
a land field at a time. good job, anthony.