(fire cracking) - i remember the early days, do you? - [narrator] for years,
the cruel william gates iii reigned as the undisputed
king of internettia, but then from the dark continent came two brave warriors, "99% no more." they cried, and banished him to the fiery bowels of mount anti-trust
from whence he came. - but the monopolistic
king wasn't truly dead, only sleeping. and now that he's returned with an edge sharper than before, our suffering will be truly great. and-- - what are you doing? - oh, i'm making a video
about how microsoft's back to their pushy ways of
trying to force us to use their browser and
like anti-competitive and like antitrust, that sort of thing. and i'm also telling the people about our fine sponsor, hetzner! - [both] (cheering) hetzner offers high
performance cloud servers for an amazing price with
their new u.s. location in ashburn, virginia, you
can deploy cloud servers in four different locations
and benefit from features like load balancers,
block storage, and more. use code ltt22 at the link
below for 20 bucks off. (upbeat music) - anyone running windows 11 right now knows the pains of edge all too well. wanna open a pdf, follow
a link or view just about any type of image file? until you've changed
out the default browser for every single one, windows 11 is going to default to edge. it apparently wasn't bad
enough in windows 10, when edge not only installed itself as part of a windows update, but then set itself as the default browser and pinned itself to the task bar. now, if you like edge more power to you. it's certainly an improvement
over internet explorer, but i'm not into it. the default search engine
is bing, more on that later. the default vertical tabs take up up a ton of screen real estate. yes, we know you can hide them, but even hidden they're bulky. and you can't uninstall
it even if you wanted to. then in 2020, they added
some shopping extensions to the browser that would
price match for you, and add coupons or promo
codes to online purchases. which sounds great, but you didn't add ask me first. and then more recently
there's been controversy surrounding integration with zip, a buy now pay later service
that has been criticized as predatory for the way
that it might tempt people to spend money that they do not have. now don't get me wrong, having a web browser on
your pc right out of the box is a better customer experience than a few decades ago. anyone still got an an
a.o.l. c.d. lying around? no? all right. the problem is that windows has been the dominant
operating system for so long that microsoft gets ample
opportunities to leverage it for an unfair advantage. and that is why we need antitrust
laws now more than ever, to demonstrate, we're
gonna do a fresh install of windows 11 to show
you just how bad it is. you can find the links down below for the parts we're
running on our test bench. one moment, please. lately, it seemed microsoft
has aggressively ramped up their efforts to make their store the one stop shop. windows comes with edge, their browser. and edge defaults to
bing, their search engine. as for why that matters to them. you need to look no further
than google's business model to understand just how
valuable your search data, along with your location, the apps you use the games you play can be
to a company like microsoft. there it is. there's
your tailored experience, and advertising id. take it all. you will anyway. then once you hit the desktop, we can make jokes about
how edge only exists so you can download another browser, and most people do it. but because of microsoft's position, they can force you to open
it at least once to do that. and when you do, you'll notice it's front and
center top left right here. the new startup wizard prompts you to give it a crap ton of data. stay up to date by regularly bringing in browsing
data from other browsers. what? that's the default? they know they can't make you keep it, so they're gonna take your
browsing data from elsewhere? how about we say no. express yourself, do you
like light or dark mode? what colors do you like? like i gotta wonder, what
am i telling microsoft? when i say, look, i really like
the bubble gum color scheme. this actually was not nearly
as bad as it used to be. well, kudos, but not that much kudos. now that i've got another browser i don't need edge anymore. so i'm gonna go ahead and just remove it. and then right, uninstall-- repair. that's my only option like an average user is
not gonna know that you have to change dot htm
to default to a browser. this could only be like this
to make it more difficult. let's go ahead and just search
for something and perfect. that launches an edge
even after you've changed your default browser. so unless you're willing to put the time and effort into absolutely purging edge and anything that it
relies on from your system you're going to end up
using it once in a while even if it's just out of laziness. and is that so bad? i mean, it's not like it doesn't work. so is this even a problem? and has it always been like this? to answer those questions, we need to go back in time. in time in time in time. hey there, buddy. it's me favorite canadian youtuber guy. boy, i sure do love chopping wood, craftin' and lttstore.com okay. that's gonna get annoying fast. anyway, the point is back in 2007 opera software filed
an antitrust complaint alongside the european union, complaining about internet explorer
being bundled with windows. mozilla and google quickly
joined forces with them. and in response microsoft offered to basically add a toggle
switch to turn off or on i.e. but that wasn't good enough. by late 2009, they agreed to instead add a browser choice screen giving users the option to pick what they'd prefer. hey, that sounds kind of familiar buddy. you know, you're right
2007 linus, it does. in 2001, the united states
also won an antitrust case against microsoft for, you guested it, monopolistic
practices including bundling internet explorer with their o.s. and making it impossible to uninstall after all, why should
i waste time and money buying netscape navigator when explorer is already right there. now, netscape had already switched over to a free model by 1998 but the damage had already been done. internet explorer had 99% market share. making matters worse, microsoft lied when they said that removing i.e. would make windows run slower. their evidence ended up looking rather fraudulent, to put it mildly. and they even altered
the api to favor explorer over third party browsers. the good news though, is that this was the first time
that microsoft had engaged in this kind of manipulative nonsense. i'm just kidding. all the way back in 1994, spyglass inc created a unified version of the mosaic browser that
could work on any platform. this was then licensed out to resellers who sold either an unmodified version or one that utilized their code base. one of these became internet explorer. the original deal with microsoft called for base quarterly
fees plus royalties from any internet explorer revenue. but how could there be any royalties when microsoft would just bundle
the internet explorer product with windows for free,
very clever mr. gates. but the lawyers didn't seem to think so since microsoft ended up
settling with spyglass for 8 million after they
threatened legal action. that's a lot of money for you to not learn your lesson at all. have you noticed that none of the things that microsoft was punished for or agreed to have actually
been implemented in windows 11? so let's talk about why
microsoft is so determined for you to use the web browser that they would treat
multimillion dollar fines and settlements as just
cost of doing business. we live in a world where
data is as good as gold, and the more people using edge, or by extension bing the more
data microsoft can accumulate. and if they make it
harder for the consumer to avoid their software, that is the very definition
of anti-competitive and monopolistic behavior. now to be fair, according
to netmarketshare.com, google chrome actually has
the highest market share by a long shot at roughly
69% at the time of filming with edge sitting at
a meager sub 8%, nice. but what's not so nice
is the way that edge is bullying their way into
the runner up spot. chrome got to first place
by being a strong competitor and running creative ads like this one. microsoft strong-armed
rather than sweet talked leaving us where we are today. and there's more to
this than web browsers. you probably don't remember
novell or wordperfect, but there are leaked
memos from gates in 1994, trying to hinder competition again. - we should wait until we have a way to do a high level of integration. that will be harder for the likes of notes and wordperfect to achieve, and which will give
office a real advantage. we can't compete with lotus and wordperfect/novell without this. - in 1996, novell
assigned rights to caldera which sued microsoft and won $280 million, which to remind you, taught them absolutely nothing. now let's be clear google
and their chrome browser are not the white knights that it might feel like
we're making them out to be. they're owned by alphabet, inc who has been involved in their own set of anti-trust lawsuits and have been accused numerous times of monopolistic practices, tax avoidance, among other things. i mean just about every browser
is running on chromium now, the basis of chrome and chrome is the most widely used browser by a long shot. but that's a story for another time. maybe once they've surpassed microsoft in terms of market cap. now these days, you'll see mr. gates doing philanthropic work with charities and nonprofits, but don't
let the pr fool you. he, and by extension microsoft
got to where they are today by ruthlessly sabotaging and
tricking the competition. so the next time you
see someone using edge because it's already there. remember this classic
simpsons line lampooning bill - oh, i didn't get rich by
writing a lot of checks. (laughs) - nope. a better way to get
rich is to receive checks like the one i got from
our sponsor, grammarly - thanks to grammarly
for sponsoring this video communication online through email, slack or discord can
easily be misinterpreted and can become a huge time block. this is why all working professionals need a tool like grammarly. grammarly is an all in one
writing tool that helps you with grammar and spelling suggestions. simply install the free desktop app, log in and start typing, baby. there's also grammarly premium which provides more in depth
feedback on your writing. so you can understand, we
recommend checking out the tone transformation and clarity tools. they help you by rewording phrases to make you sound more confident and they remove unnecessary
jargon to help you get your point across more clearly. work smarter, not harder. go to grammarly.com/ltt today
and sign up for a free account and get 20% off a premium
grammarly subscription. - anyway, thanks for watching. if you guys enjoyed this video check out the techquickie we did about how everything thing
is just chromium now.