- you ever get a cool, shiny new toy, and you know you should
really wait a little while, and set it up when you're
ready to do it properly, but you're just like, "screw it. "i'm gonna play with it right away." that's this video. all the home theater stuff
arrived to my new place, and yeah, there's no dry
wall, there's no insulation, there's no carpet, but we're
gonna try it out anyway. and it's sponsored by obsbot, who's got this cool little dongle that's gonna help track us as
we're going around the room, setting things up, so that
we can never be out of frame. i mean, i could have a camera
operator for that, i guess, but this is a lot cheaper, right, brandon? - [brandon] yeah, sure. (upbeat techno music) - whether you're designing
a theater room from scratch, or just upgrading an existing space with a surround sound set up, it can be an extremely
daunting undertaking. i mean, there are options in quite literally every price point, all the way up from cheap
virtual surround sound bars, to speakers that can cost as
much as an actual house each. now for most people, the aforementioned soundbar with wireless for your channels, or a combo receiver and speaker set from the local big-box
store will probably suffice. but for me, well, i wanted something a little crazier. (man exclaims) wait, holy crap. are these the subwoofers? - [brandon] yeah, this are the subs, man. you can pick it up, right? - oh, what? there's two? - yeah, there's two,
of course there's two. how about these towers? - oh my god. these are as tall as me. - i was just about to say
they might be taller than you. - if you watch when show, you'll probably have heard me talk about wanting to buy a micro
led tv called, "the wall." and that displays on a completely
different playing field than anything that you
would find at best buy. even when you ignore
all the glaring issues, like the crazy power requirements, or the fact that the
heat output is so much, that you need a dedicated ac just for the room that it goes in. compared to that, this
seems downright normy. and that's for a good reason, because in audio in particular, the law of diminishing returns
hits hard and it hits fast. yeah, we could spend literally 10, 20 times this amount on the audio setup. but once you do that, there are so many other
variables you have to control, like the environment that
the speakers are gonna be in, the sound treatment, how
clean the input power is. and if we aren't gonna
get all of those things on the level that 50 or a hundred thousand dollars
speakers would demand, especially 'cause this is a space primarily for watching like movies. blu-rays don't have the
craziest audio quality anyway. and i really think that these
are gonna do a great job of filling up such a small room. why are there two subwoofers? - well, when you have a bigger room like that, (man chuckles) it basically gives you more even base, so you can have a wider,
optimal seating position. 'cause usually in a home theater, so if you have like one spot, having two subs means maybe you'll have those three spots are a little better. now, we just got to carry this all inside. - yeah, no problem. we got this. why do i have to go backwards
and carry the heavy end? - life isn't fair, linus. - i am so excited to hear these, man. these are what the
internet pretty much agrees is your great balance between
spectacular sounding audio, and not sending a fortune. so the fact that svs sent
these over for us to check out, it's pretty exciting. okay. you ready? - how will you do this by yourself? - how about you--
- you gotta make up for the rest. - do it by yourself, smart guy. - i think i'd have a better
chance of doing it by myself than you would. - [linus] i could do it by myself. - [brandon] let's see here. - this is not the ideal room
set up to audition speakers, but... - [brandon] we're gonna do it anyways. - yeah, we're gonna, i couldn't wait. - [brandon] oh, it's big. - i know. i thought it was gonna be way
more packing material in here. this is freaking, this is
not what i told yvonne. - the wife approval factor,
it's coming out, boys. so basically the idea
is this sub gives you the same sort of output as you would have in a big ported sub, but while taking up way less floor space. 'cause if we got the, you know, kind of cube version of this
sub, it would be like that. - right.
- like big. so they take that like
horizontal box space, and then just go up in a cylinder. - yeah. that much i knew. but when i pitched this
to yvonne, i was like, "yeah, it'll be taller, "but the footprint's
gonna be way smaller." i had imagined like 60% of this. - you gotta realize, the equivalent boxy sub
would be like, huge. - right. - so this gives us the benefit of we can put it in more places. we have more flexibility. and with the sub, that's really important. you wanna be able to move them around, to get an optimal position for them. - this is not what i pitched to yvonne. let's have a look at the towers.
- well, how will you open the towers? - all right, let's have
a look at the towers. - oh, go gentle.
- (mumbles) right here. don't worry. everything's fine. - oh, jesus. - no, no, it's--
- did you already break it? - no, no, it's actually fine. everything is actually fine. - tit's gonna go (mumbles) on you. - it's fine. it's fine. see, i got, yeah. - why didn't you just
cut this whole thing, and then pull this piece up? give me the knife. give me that, stop. what are you doing? - i'm good. i'm just gonna, oh. - wow. holy speaker, batman. so what we got is their
ultra tower surround kit. this kit retails for around $4,500, which sounds like a lot to some people, but in the world of professional audio, that's cheap, like so cheap. - [linus] wow. sexy.
- these are sexy. - now, i've got a question for you, jake, and i'm sure this is
gonna be a stupid question for the home theater nerds out there, but this has two separate inputs. is that to drive-- - so you can drive,
- it separately? - you can drive like
the mid and the tweeter separate from the woofers. - so if you want your receiver
to handle the crossover, instead of having the speaker
just be done about it. it's got a really aggressive stance, hey? - yeah. - that's kind of crazy. - so supposedly everything
about the design of these is for acoustics. - got it. it is this shape because testing indicated this was a good shape. just don't drop it. oh, you almost just railed those nails. - no, no, no, no, it's okay. okay. - (mumbles) kind of
painter in here, actually. - well, see, that's why i told james i wanted to go with the towers. the thing is in a room this size, you do not need tower speakers like that, because you don't have
to move that much air. it's actually gonna be
a really small room. by the time we put any acoustic
treatment on the walls, on the ceilings, we carpet it. but i just felt like with the
size of the screen up here, it was gonna look really stupid. - these will sound better
than the bookshelves would. i guarantee it. in fact, the real pro way to do it, rather than having a
little center channel, well, the center channel we
have is like two feet wide, it's pretty big, would it be to actually have a third tower as the center channel. - yeah, i know, i know. - behind the screen, but yeah, whatever.
- yeah, that's fine. 'cause i wanna be ready for the micro led upgrade in the future. while we get everything positioned, this is probably a good time
for us to set up the obsbot. - [brandon] oh yeah. - what's really cool about this thing is just like their previous
product that we featured before, it uses their built-in camera, but only to power their ai tracking. so you throw your phone
into the mount here. this camera will actually track you, and make sure that your
phone is pointed at you. and then whatever you're doing, whether you're teaching
like a fitness class, or shooting a video
where you're setting up a whole bunch of speakers, it'll just follow you around, and make sure that you're
always framed correctly. so we're just gonna set this up. - [brandon] why don't you
put it on top of the sub? - oh, actually, yeah, that's perfect. let's throw it in the corner, throw this on top of it,
and then we're good to go. - just pick the thing up, come on. - no, it's heavy. - it's not that heavy. - it's pretty heavy. - all you gotta do, hold
the button, turn it on. okay. now hold up your hand. okay. come on. okay. now walk around. - oh, okay. - [brandon] oh, look at that. that's so cool. - like if we're shooting
videos in the workshop, and stuff like that, this would be a viable alternative to having one of the
camera guys stuck shooting for like six hours while
we work on (mumbles). - [brandon] hey, don't open that yet. - oh, but i want to.
- no, no, no, no, no, no. surrounds first. - no, i wanna open the receiver. - [brandon] no, no, no, no, no. - okay, mom. - it's like working with a child. wait, so if i walk into the frame, it's not gonna track me now, is it? - i have no idea how it's gonna respond to that.
- no, it's just, it tracks you. so if i hold on, if i hold my hand up. - i wonder if it just hates you. - oh, there we go, i think i was actually out of the frame. wow. hey. it's pretty quick. - it's legit pretty cool. - okay, here now. you can have it back. - these surrounds look sick
and they're crazy heavy. - yeah, yeah, yeah. oh my god. - well, i told you they're heavy. - holy (beep). - you don't listen to me. are we going grills or naked? - oh, definitely naked. - you think so? yvonne's not gonna like it. i tried to take the girls off
on our old tower speakers. - this is the home theater. it's like the man cave. - here's the thing. i've already withdrawn a lot
of goodwill from the bank to get this room to be dark, and to have all the doors like closed. and so if she says the girls go on-- - what if-- - girls might go on. - a sneaking, a little
bit taller than you do, came in in the middle of
the night, stole the grills. - i mean, i wouldn't call the police. - you're too close to the camera tip. - oh, sorry. hey, obsbot, how're you doing buddy? - here's where it gets a
little bit complicated. your intended setup is meant
to be seven channels, right? - yes. - so we don't have a back wall. so there's not really any way for us to set up the back channels. so for now we're just gonna
set up a five channel. - got it. - now, when you have a five
channel of speakers like this, you can actually set them up in what's svs calls, "duet mode." oh, there, it's even labeled. you put them a little bit further back behind the optimal listening position, and it bounces off the back wall. so these would effectively
give you a seven channel setup. - right. but if you don't have a back wall-- - we're just gonna leave them. you wanna basically put
them beside the couch. are you just gonna sit 'em there? that's probably not ideal. - oh, yeah. yeah, that's not gonna fall. - [brandon] they might, but. - it's not gonna fall, jake. look, it's only hanging
off like this much. - it's really heavy on the back too, so. - everything's fine. i'm fine. i'm fine. yeah. it's gonna be fine. we've got this. all right, i'm gonna
open up the other tower. - okay. i'm gonna clean up some cardboard. or well not clean it up, move it. - okay. i'm gonna open this one up, right? i think this is the correct way. - don't damage at this time. - i did not damage it. - i think you're supposed-- oh, i see what you're doing. - yeah. i think it's like this. - yeah, whatever. i believe in you. they're your speakers anyways. all the grills on the
towers are little ones. - yeah. i've actually, that might be how i talk my wife out of putting the girls on, because these girls are
gonna look super stupid. like half grill. i mean, here, we can put one
on, and see what it looks like. - yeah, i'm gonna go with a, "oh no, honey, the grill's disappeared." i'll just tell you that svs said we had to leave the girls off. - [linus] and you keeps
stealing my obsbot. - oh, hi buddy. it's my friend, okay? - that looks freaking awesome. - there's no way i'm
putting a grill on this. - well, there's no way you're
putting the grill on anything. grills. they didn't come with grills, honey. - oh, yeah. oh, yeah. - mint bud. you almost to start with tv? - nope. - oh, well. learnt from the best. - everyone see this? all right? so i'm allowed to open up
the receiver now, right? - [brandon] only 'cause you
ate your brussel sprouts. - oh my god. - [brandon] yeah, it's 52 pounds. - holy crap. - oh my god. no, don't look at that yet. - this is second from the absolute top
of the line from denon. it's a thirteen channel amp, which is capable of some
crazy surround configurations. like you could do 7.2, 0.6, so that would be seven surrounds, two subs, and six height channels, or you could do 9.2, 0.4, which would be even more surrounds, if you're willing to, you know, give up some of your height
channels or something like that. it's 52 pounds. it has full support for htmi 2.1 input, including variable refresh
rate, 4k, 120 hertz, all this stuff we're
gonna want for pc gaming here in the media room. it's got triple htmi outs,
which is important because-- - you could have a tv, a projector, and you could have people
out there like eating food, or whatever, and they get to watch it too. - it's actually, we probably should have it hooked up into one of the secondary
inputs in the tv out there. - yeah. - okay, we gotta make sure we
let the contractors know then. - [brandon] so are you gonna put this in the mechanical room? - i haven't decided yet. we've got the option of putting
it just at the front here. we could put it in that closet there. or we could put it in the mechanical room. and then we're gonna have
conduit from that closet through the kind of like
stage at the front here. and then that conduit will go
back to the mechanical room. so if we wanted to go
from the mechanical room to the vr tv area out there, that's probably something
we could do pretty easily. peak power for this bad
boy is 900 freaking watts. and of course it's got
support for all the stuff you'd expect, amazon music, tidal, airplay 2, blah
blah blah blah blah. i probably won't really be
using any of that stuff. what i'm after is just support
for all those channels. and of course a nice high quality amp, and htmi 2.1 support. and how much should i pay for this? - [brandon] $6,000 canadian. - $6,000? it only has one htmi 2.1 input. - [brandon] look at the inside. whoa, did you get a shot of that? - yeah, it's pretty crazy.
- holy crap. that is a massive-- - high power current transformer. i can't believe the receiver
costs the same as the speakers. that's like really stupid. so we're going four channels
in the ceiling, i think? - yeah, so the thing with svs is they do make height channels, but they're like,
wall-mounted, like angled ones. where you put them at the front, and they come down, and
you put them in the back, they come down. they just kind of look bad. instead, we wanted to go in ceiling, and forgot to request them. but fortunately, we have like
24 sets of clip speakers. i'm gonna work on setting
up software stuff. you wanna do the speaker ware? - sure. - how does the 6,000 or $4,500 us receiver still come with a remote that's quite literally an inch thick. - [linus] i don't know. - it's got a screen though. that's kind of cool. - receiver remotes are
just an absolute meme. no offense, denon. i'm sure it's terrible. - so for the top channels,
at least according to dolby, we kind of wanna go, you can see them here
behind the couch a bit, which those chairs are
standing for the couch, and then pretty close to
the front, looks like. we're just gonna yellow it. he'll probably be fine. - imagine the look on svss face if like this is the only video that we make, showing the speakers they sent us. when we do the actual deployment, we're gonna have the couch in here. we'll get everything measured out, we'll make sure that it all makes sense. - [brandon] the audio files
everywhere are cringing. - i know, they're so upset. - [brandon] so hard. - i feed on their tears. - [brandon] oh, it's a lock. - don't worry. we're gonna do it better. just everybody chill.
- like better, better-ish. - we don't have the ceiling
speakers screwed in yet. jamie's working on that. what's up, jamie? but that doesn't prevent us from doing a quick sort of test drive here. (upbeat music)
(man laughs) this is going to be ridiculous. - like in the best way. so before we start the auto setup, there's a few things we
need to tweak on the subs. now they have this really,
really awesome app. like i didn't even have
to go press a pair button. it just found them, and i
can adjust them from here. so they say you should set
the subs to minus 15 dvs for these subs, because they have the app. but if you have subs that
have like an analog dial, usually you wanna set it at the middle. and then we're also gonna go ahead and turn off any low-pass filtering. and then we can start
the auto calibration. (booming speaker) so our receiver actually
detected on its own that our subwoofer level is too high. a lot of the time, what can happen on cheaper receivers is you do your auto setup,
and it sets the subs to the minimum volume, but it might even be
wanting it to go below that. in this case, it detected it's too high. so we gotta go in, set them to a lower volume, and then start the auto set
up again until it's happy. (booming speaker) yeah, we're good. okay. - the subs sound like
someone wailing on something, a block away. - wait. i think you, did you plug the red into
the black or something? - it says the (mumbles). it's right on that side. oh!
- what? - depending on the
environment of the room, you may see phaser even
after the correct connection. so i think it's just because
our room is so crowdy. - it's all connected, right? - yeah. the apps that they ask you to install, heos, or heos, or whatever
that is, has 3.1 stars, with almost all the new
ones, one star, two stars. this used to be great, now it's terrible. and denon 2016 avr remote has 2.3 stars. - that's the same app i
use for my $100 receiver. - how do you screw up a remote? - it asks us if you wanna
do enable dolby vision, which is great, because usually on avrs, you have to like go in and tell it. - htmi, deep color, blah, blah, blah. - htmi signal. it just works, so. - oh god. - [brandon] linus. - [jamie] jesus. - i don't know how safe this is. well, worst comes to worst, it just hits him in the head, whatever. what i wanna do right now, is actually just double-check some things, because the guidance usually
is do the auto setup, but then verify. 'cause it's not always perfect. and one of the main things that will screw up on is the crossover. a lot of the time it'll actually get set too low for a speaker. so maybe your speaker
goes down to 40 hertz, or it's rated to go down to that. sometimes the avr might
even set it below that, which is not good, because it can actually
overdrive the speakers, and cause damage to them. usually you wanna be 10 to 20
hertz above the rated minimum. so we're just gonna go double-check that. oh, actually here's another thing. another important thing
when setting up your avr, it might ask you during the setup, and it might not depending on the avr, but once you go into the settings you will for sure see there's a setting that'll either be small
or large for each speaker. it doesn't actually have
anything to do with size. all that really means is whether the avr should or should not be
sending that speaker, the low frequencies
that would typically be best left to a subwoofer. when the speakers are set to large, your receiver is gonna
send all of the audio that's mixed in the original
content to that speaker, regardless of how low it goes. instead, when the
speakers are set to small, your receiver is gonna take any audio that's below the crossover frequency, and set it to the (mumbles), which is a good thing, because
your sub is really good at handling low end frequencies way better than basically any speaker. even these giant svs speakers, with the super sick eight inch woofers, that sub is gonna be better. sure enough, now that we've actually checked
the settings in the avr, the center channel is set at a crossover that's below the handling
capability of our center channel, which is bad. center is 45, so around 60 is good, and the surrounds are rated to 60. so we're gonna set that to 80. cool. we should have just
brought a rug or something. oh, we should get the rest of those moving blankets and just
lay 'em on the ground. - i really don't think it's gonna make that big of a difference at this point. - i added the top front and rear heights. - all right, here we go. - so now we gotta do set up again. - it's time to hear what the absolute worst case scenario is for this setup. i'm ready. - we've got our obsbot, we got our brandon. - what's up, brandon? we're not replacing you with an obsbot. okay, dolby demo time. (bird chirps) okay. that's pretty cool. (loud growling) (instrumental music) considering how this sounds now. - yeah. (brandon laughs) oh my god. i think it's definitely
missing the back channel. - yeah. we need the back channel. - when you saw her swinging
around, it was like, i hear it here, and it's totally gone, then here it again. - comes in. yeah, exactly. - a little jarred, but the
top channel, holy crap. - yeah. they work. in case you were wondering. - [automated voice] prepare to experience something spectacular with the sight and sound
of dolby technology. this is dolby atmos. now, sound moves around you
in three dimensional space with breathtaking audio quality. it brings the on-screen action alive, and immerses you in every moment. (air whooshing) - man, the back channel's
really killing me. - yeah. - [automated voice] whether the soundscape sets the mood of the scene. - [boy] whoa! what is this place? - okay. that was pretty good though. - it's not as bad in this demo, for sure. - yeah. - [automated voice] or
captures the full extent of nature's fury. (loud thunder) - okay. i think we try a movie now. - okay. yeah. okay, i don't want my
neighbors to hate me. - we're underground, man. it's fine. - [woman] if the major incident-- - i'm gonna turn this-- - yeah, maybe just a little. (metals screeching) (both laugh) - why, you hear the
little rockets and stuff. - oh yeah. 100%. - yeah. it's so cool. you're right, man. the overhead is definitely
the biggest game changer. - it really is kinda the last piece that really gets you like
fully enveloped in the sound. - yeah. - i don't really notice the back channels missing in this though, so it's not as bad. - i'm already freaking stoked though. massive shout out to obsbot
for sponsoring this video. super cool tech with the way
it can follow you around. can be used for all kinds
of different content, including blogging something like this, if you don't happen to have a fantastic camera operator like we do, or even if you just need a
secondary cam as a backup, freaking cool. and course while i'm at it, massive shout out to
svs and infinite cables. this room is gonna be freaking awesome. cliff and jake, jake gets a shout out too,
because he did a lot of the work. - [brandon] and james. - can you believe how good it sounds in spite of how garbage
the setup is right now? man, when we were like
really do this place up.