- now, wait a minute. this may very well be the
quietest air cooled gpu in its class, but enthusiastic have been
bolting full-sized case fans to their gpu's for over a decade. could it possibly be
worth buying one of these, the asus x noctua rtx 3070, when you could just
redneck engineer your own? guess we'll find out won't we? and we'll find out who our sponsor is. thanks to g skill for
sponsoring this video. g skill just announced their
latest flagship ddr 5 kits, the trident z 5 series. these extreme performance
ddr 5 kits are designed for 12th gen intel core processors
and the z 6 90 chips that platform. find out more at the link
in the video description. i mean, it's kind of cheating, isn't it? asus noctua performance
claims may very well pan out in the end, but the
thing is comically large. look at this. - [andy] oh my god. - i mean, it's not like we haven't seen
cards with taller pcbs before. it's not like we haven't seen
cards with long coolers on them before, but what i don't know if i've
seen before is this appears to be, a quadruple slot
card and not only that, but the thing about quadruple
slot cards is you're going to need at least one next to it
for these fans to get any kind of air intake. i mean, the truly mind blowing to me
is not only did they put full sized 120 millimeter
by 25 millimeter thick nfa12 desktop fans on the thing, but they actually made the
shroud like taller than them. you know, it's the kind of thing that
i have to look at and go that probably wasn't asus's idea. that was probably noctua's
idea or something to have this part sticking out here to
make sure that under no circumstances would a
noctua cooled graphics card, not perform properly because
you can see that right there gives these fans quite a lot
of buffer to take in air, because you can't have
anything right next to it. you know, i actually
kind of liked the look. well, yeah. i just, i think that's going to be a
bit of a controversial take. it's kind of sexy in like
an ugly way, you know, does that make sense? then it's like that, like having a really like
scary stuffed animal, you know, it's like scary, cute. it's ugly sexy. yeah, man, this is such an obvious collab, i can't believe it took
this long good on asus for getting it together. i
had sort of expected it, (unintelligible) more than
just strap their fans to a graphics card. now they claim they did, but their bauer did a video
about this card already. and as far as he could tell, the claims that asus and noctua, you know, painstakingly redesigned, this heat sync component, don't appear to hold any water. it seems to be exactly
the same heat sink for me, asus rtx 3070 tuf gaming. let's play count the slots, shall we? so you've got your 1, 2, 3, wait hold on. 1, 2, 3, 4, 4 slots, but can i actually install
a card right next to it in that 5th one? holy schnike's, it's actually going to push
it a little bit and it's not even, this isn't
even a long enough car to interfere with the peak of the bulge. it's like, it's like 4.1 slots, i guess it kind of makes sense. i mean, you look at high-end motherboards
these days and lots of them don't have a full
compliment of pci express slots like they used to. they'll have just one 60
next slot up at the top. and then maybe a couple of
more because so many of the platforms pcie lanes are
taken up by storage now. so if you're not going to
be installing anything in it anyway, i guess you might
as well have a thick, chunky ass gpu like this one, of course you might not as
well have it unless there's actually a performance benefit. let's get it on the bench. although, first, this is
here for reference so we can see what, i'm going to call
this a regular rtx 3070, with a triple fan cooler on
here is going to get us in terms of acoustic results. to be clear, this is a thick card and around
44 decibels while turboing to 1950 megahertz and do
maternal with gpu temp sitting at 63 degrees on the dye and
73 degrees on the hotspot. very respectable. the noctua, one's just
going to have to do better, if it's going to take up a fourth slot. as we shut down the system here, we'll get a good opportunity
to show you guys are noise floor here in the workshop
with the hvac off. so i'm going to shut up for a second here. at 28, 29 decibels. it's not an anechoic chamber
in here by any stretch of the imagination, but it's good enough for
us to pick up a more normal rtx 3070. so it should be good enough
for us to tell if this is better. this thing looks so ridiculous. i know, right? like the hilarious thing is
the cpu cooler bag here is what used to pass for, you
know, a big cpu cooler. now it looks like a toy getting
cpu cooler envy over here. ah, something to note is that just
like the tough gaming card that this is based on, there's a performance and quiet
mode switch on the back of a card here, ships in quiet mode. but my assumption is that
even performance mode on this thing would probably end
up being pretty quiet. i mean, this is not my first kick
at the noctua can here. i know that they make
really quiet fans, but, damn, it's a little awkward. we went to get a reading off
of it just to show that it's under the noise floor in the
room and the fans went and turned off cause it has a zero rpm mode. so let's go ahead and
fire up a light game. theoretically, this is one of those cards
that has such a large heat sink on it that you should be able
to run lighter titles without the fans even turning on. but we'll see if that actually holds up, and immediately, there are a couple of observations we can make. one is that the fans did in fact spin up. so sianora zero rpm gaming. and number 2 is that
roman debauer observed that there was some coil wind on his card. and i can verify that
i'm getting some as well. yeah, i mean, it's not loud in a way the
product is kind of a victim of its own success because i
wouldn't be able to hear that over the noise of a regular cooler. it's just that i wish part
of the collaboration between noctua and asus had been to
design a board that managed extremely quiet power delivery. i need a piece of metal like a side panel. ah, my lovely assistant james is
over here helping prepare our victim for the thing you saw in the intro, time for an extremely
scientific experiment. i'm going to get within earshot
of the coil wind and put this panel in between us. confirmed then, as long as you've got it
in a case like a normal person, the coil wind not
likely to be a problem. let's all just put the ball down. huh? huh? they done did it. they took my stuff. get outta here. boomer. let's have a look at this equilibrium yet. wow. has it ever, 55 degrees with 66 on the hotspot, and that's clocked at 1950. just like we saw before, my fans are off, my fans are freaking off. of course, rocket league. not as demanding as do maternal. let's fire that up next and
we didn't even check the acoustics. okay. turn back on. come on. - that's okay. - oh excellent. - i don't exactly know what you want. i cut all the screws. - yes. okay. bye. you're not done. - you got the fan. - yeah. cause i'm going to put my own fans on it. yeah. that's the thing that happens
when you pull off the female receptacle and you're trying
to remove the male connector. well, it's fine. cause it's going to go back
onto there anyway. whoops. - i think dogs get stuck together. - wow. what a weird thing to say. here you go. wow. that sounds like it's
spinning really fast, but this is like an 11 blade
fan or something like that. so it hits your finger a lot
more frequently per revolution. does that make sense? i don't think it's going to
heat up any more than it did. that is outstanding. no crazy frequency on this
gpu or at hitting'60, but that's to be expected.
this is not the oc version. and then in terms of temps, we managed to get up to
57 and 68 on the hotspot. and the craziest part is i
don't think these fans even spun up anymore at all here, every body shh. yeah. we're right back to the noise floor. you should note though, you're not going to see those
kinds of temperatures in the real world because we're in a
pretty cool room about' and a half degrees. and we're
running on an open bench, which means that the gpu isn't
sucking up hot air that was preheated by the cpu or
any other components. however, that's a pretty
compelling use case for a card like this. if you have a, a stuffier case, maybe a silence optimized one, having a card that can run
10 degrees colder than the competition means that your
case temps could be 10 degrees higher. and the thing still
wouldn't thermal throttle, not to mention the fans
hadn't even ramped up yet. honestly, this looks fine to me because
you've got all the screws for this like heat spreader plate. and you've got the four main
screws for the actual fins leaving only one question. is there truly anything special about this asus noctua collab, or
could i achieve the same results with a couple of off
the shelf noctua fans and a roll of duct tape? you ready andy? - [andy] go for it. - all right, i'm i'm
going to position my fan. i'm doing some careful
simulation engineering here. i'm going to position
my fan right at the edge of this heat sink because i
want to take advantage of as much of this pass
through cooling as i can. so i'm gonna put that,
put that right there. i'm going to make myself a
little kind of shroud. okay. okay. so that's going to
go right there so we don't. oh wait. no, no, i can't do that. no, i'm not going to make myself
any kind of shroud the only, hmm. yeah. what is the best way to
take advantage of this? because this is where the air
has got to come out. wait. no, no, no, yeah, no, no, no. not on this side. yeah.i was
right in the first place, only on this side where there's
pass through. so stupid, stupid like a fox. i'm sure. look. all right. let's see you engineer a,
a cooler in 10 minutes. what are the kids say? pogchamp is this pogchamp gpu edition. i mean, in fairness, mine really doesn't look
that much uglier and, and my design is quite
bit more compact. okay. i think it's only three slots and change. it's a full slot. less. thanks andy. i was waiting for somebody
to say it they're definitely spinning faster, but i think part of the problem
is that those are tied to cpu fan speeds. i have an idea. i could go into the bios and
reconfigure the fan curves, but i got (unintelligible)
in just a few minutes here. so i'll just throw a couple
of little noise adapters on them. let's go ahead and get
an acoustic reading now, it's not going to change
because the fan speed is not tied to gpu temperatures in any way, which could be dangerous
unless our cooler, it was way overkill, which
i suspect this probably is. so here i'll shut up. let's uh. just like the official noctua gpu, we are below the noise floor of this room, which is around 29 decibels.
really freaking quiet. what about performance? let's check out our
canadian engineering here. oh, it's not as good. not even close. we suck. oh no. okay. we're still turboing to
1875,'90 megahertz, but we've got a problem. we hit gpu temps of 83 degrees, and a hotspot temp of 96. so to answer the question, can you just build one for yourself? the answer is no, not unless you're willing to
compromise on the silence that noctua and asus have achieved
with this collaborative product, because we have
demonstrated in the past that you absolutely can just clip 120
millimeter fan to your gpu cooler and it will perform
pretty darn well, you just, aren't going to get away with
using low noise adapters if you want to have proper performance. so dang, good product asus noctua, good job guys. and good job linus,
segwaying into our sponsor. ting mobile has new rates that
make it easier than ever to see how much you can save by switching. they have unlimited talk and text for $10, data plans starting at $15. and then there's their set 12 plan, which has 12 gigs of data for $35. and they've even got unlimited
data for $45 a month. if you liked their previous pay
for only what you use plans, they're still there. they're called t-mobile's
flex plans now and they charge just $5 per gig. data can even be shared if you
have a family plan so you can connect more phones to save more. you get the same nationwide
coverage in the u.s. and award-winning customer service. and pretty much any phone
we'll work with ting mobile. so don't wait. they've got the
perfect plan for everybody. no matter what your needs are. check them out at linus.ting.com
and you can get a $25 service credit. if you guys enjoyed this video, maybe go check out our
previous gpu upgrade video, where we used a real ad-in
gpu cooling product to achieve significantly better
results. good job guys.