- asus needs to address
this. they need to fix it. i don't understand why they don't. asus, if you're watching, fix it. cause it sucks. here at linus tech tips, we try our darndest to cover topics. that'll be both interesting
and useful to you, our valued audience members,
but odds are that you jeff or, steve, or jack have a very you problem
that we've never managed to cover. and you just want
someone to talk to about it. well, today you can. and it's brought to you by
3cx who provided the phone system that we use to create
the phone maze that you are going to have to navigate in
order to get through to me. - thank you for calling linus tech tips. - on twitter. linus tech tips tweeted
out that they were doing - this thing called
press one for tech tips, - where they tweeted out a phone
number and i've got to call - it because i have an
issue with my computer. i need tech support.
i've tried everything. i even bought the water
bottle from lttstore.com and really hasn't solved my issue. - this number, when you call it you're supposed to have
like a very hilarious, automated phone system for you
to get through the directory and stuff. - so i'm going to call this number. - i've got the hotline put into my phone - and it's toll free. so it should be funny, right? - your call cannot be completed as dialed. - oh my god. what the hell? - thank you for calling linus tech tips. please listen carefully. as our menu options have recently changed. for tech wiki, press one. for lng clips, press two. for they're just movies, press three. - "they're just movies", what? - for channel super fun, press four. thank you for selecting.
"they're just movies", formerly known as carpal critics. - what? - wait what? - i didn't do that. - motherf(beep)er. - why do they all go to that one? - is it going to hang up on me now? crap. - for linus tech tips, press nine. - all other inquiries,
send a tweet at colton. - colton (laughs). - give me a tech tips, linus. . - you have chosen tech tips. - (rock music) - oh my god. someone's calling. - hello? - howdy. - this is dennis. what's your name? (horse neighing) - what is this? - you have chosen tech tips. - can i just speak to- - let's press one. i don't know what it said. (rock music) - hello zachary you've reached
press one for tech tips. - holy! this is very weird. - now it's only weird
if you make it weird. what can i do for you? - well, i actually have a problem. i have one of the founder's
edition for the 30 nineties. that's a problem? - well, you know, i got multiple problems. my room is hot with this thing, like it's producing too much
heat, but you know what? my other problem i have is like, it keeps turning on and off. - so the led on the monitor,
like turns off and on. - no, i'm sorry, uh, the gpu on the led. - okay. so the actual geforce logo
turns off and back on and it drops the output, but the
system does not reboot. i don't have any experience
with that exact problem, but what i can tell you is
that any time you experienced something that is so weird
that nothing could possibly explain it it's either
memory or the power supply. - i actually have the power
supplies that were exploding a couple weeks ago and i exchanged
that and it's still doing it. - are you making this up? - i can not make this up. - are you on this computer right now? - yeah, my monitor right
now, i'm talking to you. - so it's working now. it's working fine. okay. have you tried doing that
completely fresh driver install? - um, yeah. and it was doing the blanking
thing before you reformatted and then it was doing it again after. - it was not doing that on- - windows 11. yeah. it's probably software. so what i would do is i would get ddu. are you familiar with ddu? - i can google it. - yeah, so google that. so you're going to want to
restart your system in safe mode, wipe out your nvidia drivers,
do a nice fresh install. if that doesn't fix it, then go to nvidia because
one way or another, this sounds like their problem, whether it's the hardware or the software. - yeah. that was quick. so do i got to pay you
or some or tip you or. - no, no, we give the tips. - wait that was the whole point? - yeah, that's it. - you just call in and get tech tips. okay. - well, all right. thank you jason, for calling in today. what can i help you with today? - i was just saying you guys
made videos about installing windows 11. - yep. and i was just wondering, how do i install less than one window? cause i got a few windows
in my house that are broken. - oh, oh, oh, you're funny. please help my 3080. - please. - what you need to do is
find yourself a toaster oven and put it in the toaster oven, leave in there for about an
hour and then you'll plug it back in and your
computer will maybe explode. - thank you for calling
press one for tech tips. please note your call may
be monitored for quality and training purposes. how can i help you? - i have a problem with
my usb audio deck. uh, we installed the drivers
and that sometimes fixes it. sometimes doesn't fix it. it's weird when i unplug it
and replug it back in it resets but after every two hours, it goes back to that garbled audio. so i was wondering if you
could help me with this, this issue. - what i suspect it is is
it's more to do with the usb controller that you haven't plugged into. so most motherboards these
days have at least two usb controllers on them. typically one of them is usb
two and then the other one would be usb three. can we have a look at the
back of your computer? that's your face still? i had your foot for a second there. that's hot. question for you, are
you running ryzen 3000 or ryzen 5000? - ryzen 3000. - okay. so you know, there were some usb issues
with ryzen 3000 a little while ago right? - i had no idea. - now that i know you're
running ryzen 3000, i would say there's a really
solid chance that you just need to update your bios. and
the issue will go away. failing that. never hesitate
to try a different cable. if you just have any other
usb cable lying around it, it can be worthwhile trying
it just to see what happens. but i think that i've gotten
this one nailed for you. - all right. thank you. - thanks for calling in. - these tech tips are making me thirsty. - i hope it's good. - oh, they're fantastic water bottles they're made with the best materials. - do you feel me with you now? right now? i'm just next to you right
now. you close your eyes. you can feel me right next to you. hung up on me? (laughing) - thank you for calling
press one for tech tips how can i help you? - so i got my good old
3080 i paid retail for. - nice! - was working fine, and then it got really dusty. cleaned it out, moved a few cables around, just to make it look a little better and now it's not displaying anything - okay. so what happens when
you press the power button? - so if i press the power button, essentially the motherboard
gives me an error code of 00. - okay. show me that code zero, zero. that sounds to me like
basically nothing is happening. what cables did you move? because
usually zero zero is like, your freaking cpu is not plugged in. - so i moved these two cables, they where up here i re-routed them down
and then i did a little troubleshooting cause i
took the two aio cables i did reseat the aio once it wasn't doing anything and then, still nothing - here's what i want you to do. can you check and make sure
your eight pin cpu power connector is seated all the way in. okay. so let's flip that
back power switch back on and let's try and fire this thing up. if this doesn't do anything,
i might have bad news for you. all right. hit it. yep. that's all i need to see. go ahead and flip the back
power supply, switch off again and let's pop that aio off. - i don't know how you do this one-handed. - for me it's a top priority
to be able to do things one-handed that's why they
call me one hand. johnny. - i think i got colton for the first time. and then he told me to put the 3080 in my toaster oven and then just hung up. - and that's some good
tech tips right there. - all right, so the aio is off. - okay. i want you to
pull out your cpu now. you gotta lift up the arm.
did you lift up the arm? you did. okay, okay. and just hold the
cpu up to the camera. yep. yeah. i'm not going to be able
to make this out from here, but do you see any bent pins? - i do not. let's go ahead and reseat it. let's put that back in the
motherboard, ever so gently. now we're going to do
an advanced move here. you're gonna flip your power
supply switch back on and we're going to power this puppy up. yeah. all right. sorry vinnie. you got a big fat hardware problem here. if i had to guess, i would
say probably motherboard. - i'm glad it's not the 3080 cause that's what took the longest to get. - i wish i had better news for you, but at least you are on the right track, i think in terms of troubleshooting here. - awesome, thank you so much linus! - all right, no problem. vinnie. take care. - oh hi dennis. - hi. how are you? - i'm glad i could talk
to you today instead. - instead? what do you mean? who are you going to talk to? - obviously i wanted to talk to colton. hey, this is linus from linus tech tips. - i like tips! this is colt- (laughing) - 3cx's technology is something
that we've never really had the chance to play with before. normally we don't really have
open phone lines here at linus media group. so you can just call us, but with us service like theirs, it is absolutely the kind of
thing that we could conceivably do. and it was surprising
how easy it was to set up. you can do it in a number of ways. you can have it hosted by three cx, which is the easiest option you
can host in your own private cloud. on google. amazon, your digital ocean or whatever, or you can even host
on-premise with windows, linux, or even a raspberry pi.
their costs are super low. the standard license is free
for a year and hosting is also free for one year on all license sizes. three cx is ideal for remote workers, just install the free mobile
or desktop app or use the web client. and they've got
support for live chat, sms, facebook, and google messaging with all
of them coming together in one interface. so whatever your
needs are, go check them out. we're going to have the link
down below and thanks again to three cx for sponsoring this video. hi there. thank you for calling
press one for tech tips, please note your call may
be monitored for quality and training purposes. how may i help you? - i've got this really dumb thing, - i downloaded speedfan a while ago... - now that's a name i've
not heard in a long time. - i have no idea how to
get it to pick up my fans. or detect them, or do anything
with this software at all, really. - here's a question for you. what vendor is your motherboard made by? - this is an msi xa-570 pro. - msi will actually have a
windows-based utility that you can download instead of speedfan. why do you need this?
there is my first question. - sorry. i have a 3070, and
sometimes it does get a bit hot, but the fans don't sound like
they're super ramping up. - so you want to control
the fans on your gpu. - gpu and cpu. - well, the gpu's easy, uh for that, you just want to download
msi afterburner. there ya go. that's what you want. so you're going to make yourself
a custom fan speed curve. so the more gradual this slope
is the less you'll notice it going- you know, up and down and up and down. so what we've done here is
we've made it to your gpu is going to be super quiet when
you're not doing anything, but once you start to do something, it will ramp up much more aggressively. and then now if you want it to
have a more aggressive curve, all you would do is drag your dots up - got it. - that's pretty much it. that's your tech tip on how
to use afterburner to control the fan curves on your gpu. it's a lot easier if i have this, if i have these things right
in front of me at the same time, but that's okay. we made it work. all right. thanks, sean. - yep! i'm going to move on to my
next tech tip. take care. - for mac address, press five. - you selected mac address, as we all know it just works. so instead of technical support, please enjoy this music
to help you relax while you use your working computer. (elevator music) all right, what's your
question. what you got? - are you into (beep)? - oh my god (laughs) - so, my phone has this
ghost touch issue... - so the trick is, you
have to take an electrode and use that to touch the phone. also, you can try microwaving
it if that doesn't work. - hello, thank you for calling
press one for tech tips, please note your call may be recorded for quality and training purposes.
how can i help you today? - i'm having issues with my computer - my fans are always at a
hundred percent, no matter what. - my fans are always at
a hundred percent too. just like you adam.
you're a hundred percent. okay. in all seriousness though, let's have a look at what
you're working with here, by the way, i love your shirt. oh, thank you. i want to jump right out
ahead of you and say, i think your fans are
plugged into a water pump, header on asus motherboard. - i've checked it. - okay. it's a bit embarrassing that
i can't figure it out as well, cause i work in it myself. - how sure are you that all of
them are actually stuck at a hundred percent. - ninety five percent? could you like stick your
finger in them and make sure. okay, yeah, these are going. these are going okay. let's reboot. i want to have a look at
your bios settings. hold on. can i, can i just see? yeah, let's just close out of this
interface and go to monitor. do fan configuration. let's go in there and let's
go to chassis. chassis, fan configuration. dwm mode, polo cpu tam. yup. let's change out the pwm. a water pump. key fan control. let's set that to enabled
just for fun pwm mode. it looks like neither of these
is going to allow themselves to be controlled at all. now that's fine. just, just ignore these. go back. water pump plus, we are plugged in to w pump
plus then we are getting an rpm sense off that. man, people are coming at me
with the challenging ones today w pump plus is the one right above it. we do not want to use that one. so let's move that down
to the high amperage one. - okay, we're significantly quieter now. - yeah. all right. now let's go ahead and press
f10. how's our fan noise? - these are not so bad, but these ones are still
definitely going to really high speeds. - okay. let's go back and
have a look at the bios again. now we can see our cpu fan
speed is a thousand rpm. that's right near the
rated speed of these fans, so that could be running
at a hundred percent. now, what is your cpu temperature? go up to the top again. 41 degrees. no, that should be fine.
it might be a warm day. so let's go back to the
fan control. yeah, go down, go down and keep finding
configuration. yep. okay. so cpu. ah, okay. let's change that over to pwm mode. - it's so cool, me and linus here, troubleshooting my gear. - one of the challenges
though is if you have some of the fans plugged into a
header that just isn't respecting those curves, it's really hard to tell
when they're working or not, because the system is going
to be as loud as the loudest individual fan in it. okay? so for whatever reason, the cpu optional header is
respecting your fan curve. but the cpu fan speed header is not. what is actually plugged into that header. - that is actually just the
aio. so that's the rpm header. - okay. so is your system quiet then? - i think we're quieter now? i don't know if you can hear them.. - i can't hear anything. - i think that you solved it. you know, what's great. you were totally plugged
into a pump header. it's a really common thing. every time i have trouble
on asus board with fans, not responding to fan curves properly, it's one of those headers.
asus needs to address this. they need to fix it. i don't
understand why they don't. all right, adam, i'm going to let you go and
i'm going to move on to my next call. you have a good one. - i looked online and found a great deal on this gigabyte power supply, the 850w one - i heard you got fired recently i want to hire you! - ooh! - i can pay you in nfts whatever the problem is
just throw the computer out your window and then you
won't have any more problems. - i mean, i'll do that right now. - oh, excellent. - thank you for calling
press one for tech tips p- (clears throat) - so my computer's
doing this strange thing where it plays electronic music. - okay. - and it says "give me tech tips". - ah. - check this one out. (electronic music) - give me tech tips. - it says "give me tech tips". - uh.. - i can't open up task manager. - oh boy. - this is darren at
chipotle evans and gilpin. would you like guacamole on that? whoa. hello. this is taren at chipotle. evans and gilpin. you
want guacamole on that? this is tara, you want guacamole? nobody understands the
chipotle references. - thank you for calling
press one for tech tips. how can i help you? - we just moved into a
university dorm and our internet likes to cut out a lot. how do you know it likes it? well, are you plugged in using a
wire or are you trying to use wifi? - i have everything over wire. okay. why don't you run me
through how the setup works? - i believe we have coaxial
with shaw is what the university has. so the thing about co-ax intranet, every time you split it, there's some signal loss you're
losing some gain when one of them cuts out, do they all cut out? - not that i'm aware of. - yeah we haven't figured that out. - when you guys lose your connection, do you go over and look at the shaw box? does it say it is
connected to the internet? there's probably nothing i
can do about this because it sounds to me like you've just
got copper cables that are doing rotten ugly old copper
cable things. so yeah, i wish i had better news for you guys, but you're going to have to
have shaw come out and unf(beep) it because they're the
only ones who can i think. - that sounds about right. - hey, have a great semester all right? - to hear a dad joke, press six. - all right. all right. why was the cell phone wearing glasses? because he lost his contacts. - how can i help you today? - when i built my pc. i
got both the nine 70 evo, samsung as a speaker. and i also got an intel optane 280 gig. - well, that's not
really a question is it. - is that really getting me any benefit? - for your 970 you're
using an optane cache? no, i would actually not
recommend that use case. and the only reason i know
this is because back when they first released, well, whatever that initial optane
cache drive they released was i specifically asked them the
same thing. i was like, hey, whoa. you know, could i use this as a cache for
my ssd on like a data center scale? absolutely. the problem is that optane
connected to an nbme interface. doesn't have the same kind of
advantages as optane plugged into a memory slot. when you
add an optane drive as a cache, my understanding is that it
doesn't contribute additional capacity anyway. - i'm using a primo cache. - can i pitch you a crazy idea? - i like crazy. - why don't you just get a hard drive? if you threw that on your
hard drive as a cache, you'd be blown away by how it performs. - i was thinking about
that too. that makes sense. - i think that's your best bet. don't waste money on a high cap ssd. if you're comfortable with the
concept of caching and if you already have a pretty
low cache light sense. thank you so much linus. - take care, have a great weekend. - for linus cat tips, press seven.