(upbeat music) - you know volvo, they sell bricks that are uncompromisingly safe, but they have a bit of a problem. almost all cars are safe now. fortunately, volvo is synonymous with something else, sleeper. and given the xc40 recharge
has over 400 horsepower and three and a half civics of torque, this thing's a certified sleeper. and fortunately, this
thing is not just fast. with an infotainment designed by google and a commitment to no nonsense unlike like other evs this
thing's really nice to live with. just like it's nice to live
with our sponsor, cablemod. cablemod allows you to
personalize the look of your pc with custom colored sleeved cables. try out their configurator
and build your cables exactly how you want them with
a realistic cable preview. check it out at the link below. (upbeat music) 12 years ago, volvo was in a tough spot with ford nearly running
them into the ground. since being acquired by
chinese car manufacturer geely in 2010, for a fraction of what ford paid things have been looking up. geely was able to turn around the company with a devious plan ford
never could have dreamt of, give volvo money and full autonomy. the focus now is on beating the germans with scandinavian simplicity, and the sales numbers show
the plan has been working. now, volvo is aggressively
investing in electric vehicles with all their models planned
to be fully electric by 2030. so, how good is their first entry? from the outside, i think the
xc40 recharge looks great. sometimes when a car goes
from gas to electric, it ends up looking like a fish with its face smushed
against a glass pane. volvo has shown us that the grill delete doesn't have to look terrible. just take it in for a second, it's pretty and you don't have to assemble it. given the marketing photos, you might think there is
a generous frunk but... yeah, not exactly. there's space for a charging
cable and not much more. but there's a very volvo reason for why the frunk sucks, safety. with the removal of the engine and addition of a couple thousand pounds, they needed to put a massive
reinforcement structure under here to improve
safety and chassis rigidity. but yeah, less of a frunk
and more of a furse. the interior is simple. it feels nice although not
over the top luxurious. if you have a louis vuitton earbuds, it might be a bit too plain but i'm a fan. the suede and vegan leather
seats are extremely comfortable and the start button is below my butt. so, let's give it a go. (upbeat music) flooring it not only
sends you back in the seat but the whole thing sits down. just planting the rear tires, as the front scramble for traction. it's uncanny how this
can just put down power, no matter the conditions. we're on winters and in the wet it still can do like
4.9 seconds, zero to 60, which is the same as the model y. and other publications
have measured 4.2 seconds, zero to 60, which is crazy given
how much this thing weighs. the way it silently accelerates allows you to be a bmw driver, just
chopping commuters at lights and getting into those tight
spots without feeling like one. although it does get pretty mad when you don't use your turn signal. there are two options for the go pedal, standard and one pedal. standard enacts pretty much
like an automatic transmission in an suv. let off the gas, it doesn't
immediately slow down and you have to hit the brakes to stop. i think it kind of sucks. it has really aggressive creep that makes it kind of
hard to stop smoothly. that was pretty good though. and you have to hold the brake cause well, it doesn't have brake hold. i suspect most people will
just settle on one pedal mode. if you've never driven an ev before it will take a day or so to get used to but it is really worth it. it makes it so that when
you get off the gas, it uses regenerative
braking to slow you down instead of you having
to hit the brake pedal. it can increase your range,
allows me to drive smoother and it also allows you to have more fun. in a corner you can,
just with your right foot change the balance from
the front to the rear and really kind of feel
what the car is doing. or if you're me, it makes it
way easier to be an idiot. unfortunately, there is no way
to disable traction control. although like i get it, you could definitely just
do a comically large skid straight into a rollover if
they allowed you to disable it. but i really did not expect
to have this much fun in a crossover suv that's not
even advertised as sporty. if you really want to get into it, you can kind of see-saw
your way through corners. going from understeer from
overloaded front tires to, you know, you punch it
and then you get understeer from not enough weight on the front tires. it is without a doubt, slower
than the model y in corners, but i'm leaving the end of the corner with a big grin on my face instead of just cursing
the electronics (groans) (energetic rock music) oh jesus, it that guy (car engine roars) sounds so good though. - our freshly minted
volvo fan boy over there, he's glassing over quite a few things. give me the keys. (soft music) like see this here, you
think it's some nice felt or soft material but
it's just floor liner. you know the stuff they
use to line floors. and for how well thought
out the interior is, there are some comical oversights. i mean look, there is
loads of storage space. we've got a laptop
holder, a tissue holder, trash bin, cable holder,
phone charger, purse hook but where do i put my sunglasses? they're the one thing i wanna have safe dedicated storage for. not to mention the fancy
harman kardon sound system. seems like it was tuned
by a horny teenager that just discovered bass. (bass thumping beat) even after turning the subwoofer
to its absolute minimum, it's still a bit much for my taste. once you start driving (groans) this thing hauls ass
for something that size. mind you, the steering is not
quite up to the same level. although this is far from the worst electric steering setup
that i've ever felt, it's got this terrible self-centering that dominates the first
one eighth of return or so. like look, turning, turning, let go and it goes straight immediately. it's almost like the car has 12 degrees of castor or something. past a certain point the self-centering kind of starts to chill out. so, determining whether it's understeer or just the weird tuning,
is kind of difficult. it's just not confidence inspiring. in fairness though, i highly
doubt the average ex40 driver is gonna to be too concerned
about the subpar handling even if it makes dodging potholes or going around a left
lane hog kind of sketchy. what they might be concerned
about is the ride quality, which is a bit of a sore spot here. even after accounting
for the winter tires, you can tell the dampers in this car were not designed for this much weight. at low speeds the
suspension is kind of busy and at high speeds (groans) lets go, they are just kind of floaty. it feels like a truck
with a towing package but with nothing to tow. potholes or bumps in the
road make the entire car audibly shutter. and when you punch it (groans) you can see how hard she tilts. adjustable electronic dampers
would have gone a long way to help alleviate these problems but those are typically reserved for cars in a higher price bracket than this. - so you hate it. - not exactly. don't get me wrong,
there's a lot to like here. the panoramic roof opens
like a normal sunroof, the on-wiper washer fluid is great and you can even fit real
human adults in the rear seats. the trunk, which can be
opened with a foot opens and closes quickly revealing
more than enough space for a hockey bag or maybe even four. and for trips to the grocery
store, the floor folds up to create a shelf for your bags. the cargo cover can
even be stored below it. the xc40 honestly, could be a perfect car for a lot of people just not for me. (car engine roars) - realistically, for
car enthusiasts like us, the polestar 2 is what
we should be driving. review coming soon, by the way, get subscribed it's gonna be sick. the thing that will have you coming back to the xc40 recharge is the simplicity, and a large portion of
that is thanks to google. in here we have android automotive different than android auto, and it is easily the best
infotainment currently in cars. the past 10 years or so
automakers have struggled to figure out how to integrate
your phone with the car and here you just don't need the phone. hop onto the play store,
download the app that you want and if bitty bop, you can run it straight through the interface. like, look, there's spotify. having instant access
to my music and podcasts through the infotainment
screen has been awesome. and google assistant makes
things like requesting guidance or texting super easy. there are some notable
emissions like audible and apple music aren't on it yet, but this is very early days and the number of apps
is rapidly increasing. in some parts of the world,
they already have youtube and netflix running on this screen. awesome, for one year stuck charging and i can't wait for it to arrive here. overall, the system has been stable and has a lot of nice features. we've got the car settings can be changed based off of which
google account you select and accounts can be
assigned to different keys. it does have some annoyances, like the buttons down
here are just too small and i regularly hit the
wrong one on a bumpy road. and i really wish there
were physical controls for the climate because this just sucks. like at least enables swiping
if you're going to do this. come on volvo and google. all in all though, it
only took me about a day to learn how all of this works, and that's like a full week before i would have learned at german car. now, how well over the
air updates will pan out is yet to be seen, how long it takes some
android phones to get updates, doesn't exactly inspire confidence but google has committed
to monthly security updates and there's a lot of potential. with the likes of gm,
ford, honda and nissan all signing up for android automotive in the next couple of years, it's hard to imagine this
program getting relegated to the cemetery. there is one potential fatal flaw though, without lte the whole
thing is basically useless. the xc40 recharge comes with volvo's digital services package
free for four years although they currently won't tell you how much it will cost to extend
the functionality past that. even if you don't renew the internal lte, the bluetooth makes it
easy to tether your phone and failing that the bones
of the car are still great. the driver assists are solid
with adaptive cruise control that's better than teslas, although not quite at the level of audi. the auto-lane centering is great although without a
physical button to toggle, i ended up just leaving it disabled. also the 360 parking camera is... well, it's better than not having one, but it is way to susceptible
to rain and dirt. of course, you get all
of the safety assists and i haven't found
them to be too intrusive in everyday driving. like this is a volvo, you
expect it to be safe and it is. the seat isn't just comfortable to sit in but also very safe. it has an anti-whiplash
design that protects both male and female occupants equally. something that a lot
of automakers can't say they only used an average
male crash test dummy. there even as an airbag
at the side of the seats, that deploys to protect
a pregnant woman's tummy, if you get t-boned. volvo's equal vehicles for all initiative is seriously awesome. cause not only did they
put in the research to make sure their cars are
equally safe for everyone, but they also made over
100 research reports freely available to other
automakers for reference. honestly, this is the first
electric car i've driven where at the end i'm not excited to go back to daily driving my golf. so, then should you buy it? at $55,000, it's five grand less than the model y long range, but with a couple options it's very easy to get them price comparable. the xc40 recharge has
356 kilometers of range, 150 less than the model y and currently you don't get access to tesla's network of superchargers. i've had less weirdness charging
the volvo than the porsche, but the superchargers alone
could be reason enough to give musk your money. or the knowledge that your
panels won't fall off, might be reason enough to get the volvo. if your goal is to be wowed by tech then tesla or mercedes
might be a better options. but if you want a no fuss commute that well, it looks like this, the xc40 recharge may
be the perfect choice. but not as perfect as my segue
to our sponsor, squarespace. thanks to squarespace for
sponsoring today's video. you think you don't need a website? of course you do. you can make anything you want and it's super easy to make a website that can do almost
anything on squarespace. they have award-winning templates that will help you make
your websites stand out instead of looking like
it's from the '90s. and if you're looking to open a business online selling products,
they have you covered too. squarespace can help you
showcase what you're selling in a modern style. they have inventory management, no limit on how many
items you want to sell and we even use squarespace. both our linus media group,
and ltx expo websites were built quickly using squarespace. if you ever get stuck making website, they have 24 hour support and
a team ready to help you out. visit https://www.squarespace.com/ltt
to get 10% off today. huge, thanks for watching,
hit like, get subscribed and let us know in the comments, what we can do to make
these car videos better. we're still really new to
them and this one was what, like 10th of the budget
and a third of the team. we need to make money on
these if we want to do more. let us know how well we did.