- oh, i'm sorry, jake. all the weights on jake. oh, okay. this is the family room of my house. if you've been keeping
up with this series, or if you at least have
two functioning eyes, you'll see that it is
currently a construction zone. but don't let that fool you. when this room is done, it's
going to be a sweet place to kick back and relax
with some tunes, some tv, maybe have some friends over or employees as the cra informs me. i'm supposed to call them,
but before we can do that, we need to solve some problems. thankfully, sony sponsored this video setting us up with a sick a90j oled tv. and you might've noticed the room's got a bit
of a weird shape to it, their ht-a9 spatial surround sound system. what the heck is a spatial
surround sound system? look at this picture, got
some stuff to figure out here. (upbeat music) spatial sound mapping, this is actually kind of the perfect
deployment for this thing. - [jake] yes. - so you take these four speakers, it's not like a traditional soundbar. and then you spread
them out around the room and it creates what sony
says, is 12 virtual speakers. including, and this one
really tripped me out, a virtual center channel because the funny thing is the
center channel is the one that is kind of the reason
that people go and upgrade the built-in speakers on their tv. right? so that they have that clearer dialogue. - [jake] i'm happy for once
that like a sound manufacturer is making something not black. - yeah. they've got kind of like, like kinda like architectural, like kinda textured finish on it. actually it looks really sharp. - it's like concrete color almost. - yeah, i like it. - [jake] i'm a lot more
optimistic about these now that i've seen how big they are cause soundbar rear channels
are usually like tiny. - we also tried out
sony's latest gen soundbar on short circuit and their
spatial calculation crap has gotten really good, like we were getting virtual top channels on the short circuit set. - [jake] what? - yeah. - [jake] how? - i know, i know, i know
it's like a 26 foot ceiling and there's sound treatment on it. - [jake] isn't it, isn't
more than like, it's huge. it's a warehouse. - very discernible, very noticeable. - [jake] okay. i'm excited. - yeah. - [jake] oh, this is interesting. - yeah. we'll talk about this
box in a second, but couches. are we going to set up some couches? - [jake] i guess so. we're
gonna have to unset them up. - yeah. there's couches in the garage. - [jake] really? - yeah. now something that's
not pictured on the box at all, is this cute little controller hub. this is gonna be doing all of these spatial audio processing. and it also acts as an hdmi pass through, so it can take up to an 8k
or 4k, 120 hertz hdr signal. and then it'll take dolby atmos, dts x, or a myriad other audio formats, and then pass the video
back through to the tv. and then it wirelessly transmits
audio to all of these guys, and presumably takes feedback from them in the form of sound,
in order to correct for the shape of the room, which
this one is super weird. let's see if we can take a
closer look at this puppy. grills don't come off, so if
you like the naked grill look then you're plum out of luck. but, under here we've got link
button, power, power plug. i mean, wow, that's it.
this is our rear left. oh, that's a nice little diagram, in case you're super dumb. they've got a handy little diagram. they even show how it's
supposed to be oriented, flat side away. speaker noise, come out this way. thanks sony. the real reason i wanted to
take the grill off of this was to show you guys the configuration. cause it's a little bit
unusual, on the front, you've got a woofer,
handling mids and lows and a tweeter to handle your highs. okay, that's pretty normal. any normal surround speaker
would look like that. oh, there's also what looks like a base port down at the bottom. it's really hard to tell though. this color and texture makes
my eyes go kind of funny when i try and look through it. then things get weird because
on the top of each of these is an additional driver
that is a top channel, but then each of them has one and then they've all got two microphones. and that's where this whole wackiness with the 12 virtual
speakers thing comes in because they're all going to
be listening to each other, in order to contribute to
these virtual speakers. i am really going to have
to hear this to believe it. before we do that though,
we're gonna need a tv and we're gonna need a couch. we're here for this couch.
we bought this at like, you know how furniture stores are always going out of business and
having a big final sale. - yeah. - well, this one was actually
going out of business. - are we going to be able
to get it through the door? - yeah. is it gonna be easier
or harder with the box? - i just don't want to damage it. - the worst part is that this couch is gonna ultimately be in the basement. so it's gonna have to
come back down the stairs. - i think we should
leave the cardboard on. - okay. - let's just try to get it up the stairs. - oh, well. man fall down. - i'm not letting go, i got it. - funny. okay. - come on. - i can do it, i am under it. - [jake] come on mr. tech tips. - oh god, i dropped it. hold on, i got to just do a little, i was watching the olympics. right? the 2020 olympics, and
they're all like, oh god. - [jake] oh, you're getting crushed. - oh my butt-hole. oh, i'm sorry, jake. all the weight's on jake. oh, okay. are you able to turn it? pivot, pivot. oh god. i need to, i gotta get
it on my back, okay. - that sucked. oh my god.
that's the hard part, right? - actually. yeah, i think it's pretty smooth sailing from here. i think we gotta go clockwise. - [jake] wow, we would
be the worst movers. - i know. right. i'm sure jake is gonna hate this. - [jake] oh, why? - i promise you, i promise
you it's comfortable. - okay. - and it's gonna be for the basement. it's gonna have a basement vibe. - looks like it should
go into the basement and never come out. - yeah. well, that's the
plan. that's the plan. - oh yeah. it's just so ugly, i love it. - look, tell you what,
just hold your tongue until you sit in it. okay? - it's too firm. - i mean that's fair. that's
fair, i'm a firm couch guy so. - oh, there's so much (beep)
gonna go down this crack. it's a big crack, feel the crack. - the big (beep) crack. my biggest complaint with my current couch is the complete lack of lumbar support. so the pendulum may have
swung the other way a little. - too far. it's okay, give it like six months in this cheap couch, we'll
have worn in a little bit and then you'll feel the
plywood on your butt, it'll be great. - tv? - yeah. - let's do it. - here, i'll go back this
way and you can go up. - yeah, for sure. man, this tv is balln'. sony recently made the
move on their soundbars to start just having the subwoofer as an add on purchase and
it makes a ton of sense. especially now that i see other products in their lineup like this, where it's like, do you want a sub-woofer? do you not want a sub-woofer?
it's totally up to you. we definitely need to
undicefy this a little bit. so here, let me just pull this down. - how are you gonna undatafy that? - i got a plan, i got
a plan. i got an idea. i'm gonna go like this. i'm gonna start with this one. hold on, give me a sec. i just gonna give it
a little, right there. - [jake] oh, a whole boy. - in the longer term, the
plan is to kind of retrofit a flat panel mount into here, by kinda ripping out this middle chunk. but i was kinda thinking i would let the cabinetry makers do that. and maybe for today we'll commit a sin. i know it's sinful, we'll
put the tv on the mantel. - [jake] i think that's a great idea. - my one concern is that the mantel does not
appear to be supportive. - [jake] well, look underneath it. what does it look like
underneath? can you see? - oh no, i think, it looks
like it sits on top of this, which sits on top of a
big fat lot of nothing. probably fine. - [jake] i think it's fine. - okay. all right. - yeah, face on the other direction. - you know what? i'm
just, oh, sorry. i didn't. - oh god. - i got it. i got it. - [jake] oh my god. - i'm gonna put it downstairs. hold on. let me just, gonna
put it downstairs. okay? - [jake] there's no stairs there. - oh yeah, bud. there
it is. how i tighten it? oh, you put it in a separate
screw to lock in place. - [jake] oh, that's the
black screws over here. - okay, that makes sense. - [jake] wow, that does
actually make sense. - ready? and one, two , three. oh god, it's a little heavy. now i could put the speakers
right next to the tv like this, cause we actually do
totally have space for that. but, if i, you know,
didn't like the aesthetics of that setup, part of
the whole deal with these is that you can kinda put them
like wherever you want-ish. as long as they're
front right, front left, rear right, rear left. so we're gonna kinda play
around with our placement here, and put this one here. in order to plug these in, we're obviously gonna
need the accessories. so it comes with a remote,
just like a soundbar would, a little power brick for
the processing dock thing. you get four matching power cables, hdmi and of course batteries for remote. there's our hdmi in, that's
coming from our computer. and then, oh, i guess i'm
also holding my second one. these are both hdmi 2.1 cable. so we should be able to
do full 4k 120 hertz. now it should be noted
that one hdmi 2.1 feature we will not be using is
variable refresh rate. but even though sony hasn't roll it out on the a90j, at least not yet. jake and i are hopeful
because which one is it? - [jake] there 700h, the flagship lcd. - just got it like yesterday, - [jake] in china. - yeah. the rollout is
happening, i believe. what do you think for
angle? maybe more like that? - [jake] yeah, i think that's pretty good. - okay, let's find out if these power outlets are actually powered. - [jake] oh they are you can see there's a light on the speaker. - oh, beautiful. - [jake] i don't know
if this one is though. - wonderful. wonderful. - they just synced up. - did it already sync? - i think so. well, we've
only plugged in two of them. - just like that, aye. - it's quite nice. - yeah, so they work then confirmed. - i'm just boppin' right now. - physical feature, by the way,
lots of sony tvs have this, where you can use the speaker that is actually built into the screen and vibrates the screen
as a center channel. so i guess that'll help enhance things. oh, do you have to do that? - [jake] oh you have to give it a cable. - oh, it totally does. - [jake] so, is it in the box? - yeah, no, it came with the cable. i just didn't really think
i needed it for anything. for our sub we've got the sw5. so this is the more
premium option out there to kind of build your own kit subwoofers. it's 300 watts and should be plenty enough for a room this size. - [jake] well, it looks nice too. - yeah, it's got like kinda this, kinda cracked leather lookin' or
not cracked, but like leather, kind of textured looking
finish on it, i like it. oh wow, this demo mode
is kind of impressive. - it really doesn't sound like it's just stereo in front of us. - okay, so do you wanna try with tv center channel off to start? - i think we should. - all right, let's try it. oh, that's gonna be a problem. okay, we got 30 seconds of quiet, jake i'm gonna run the thing one sec. - [jake] okay, once he runs it. andy, you gotta sit. andy sit. wow. - okay that was it. - even just the like
confirmation that it's done. - yeah. - i felt very, - extremely spatial. - surrounded. - big brain jake over here,
didn't bring an ethernet cable. so i ran to my old house
and got a 50 footer, which is not enough to run down the stairs but i'm hoping we can grab
it in this wall space. okay, tell me about your
galaxy brain moment here. - oh, okay, i had an
even bigger brain moment. so this system here doesn't
have a wifi antenna, so it can't pick up any
of the signal downstairs, but i was like, it
could probably pick up a tethering signal from my phone, if i put my phone right there. on new phones, you can take the signal it's already getting and tether it. so i'm taking the wifi. this is acting basically as
a repeater right beside it. and i was downloading overcooked
at 15 megabytes a second. - i can't even find where that wall space opens up down there. i think we're stuck with your galaxy brain phone tethering idea. andy made a good point, you
guys might wanna consider watching this video with headphones and we'll get the editor, hey
editor, to actually leave me in the left channel and
jake in the right channel because you guys will be able to hear the spatial audio in the demos. - [tv narrator] it brings
the on screen action alive, and immerses you in every moment. - okay, so obviously
we're going to hear stuff coming from behind us,
but the virtual sides. - how is there not speakers beside us? - it's better than i expected. - well, especially considering
the huge gap right there. it's pretty hard to make
out four discreet speakers. - yeah. - yeah. - you know what? i get it. i went into this, not really understanding what this thing was. right? cause it was like, well if
you wanted to put all the work into scattering a bunch of speakers around wouldn't you just get a
home theater in a box. and if you want it to look nice, why wouldn't you get a soundbar? but that's what this is. - yeah. - it's the middle ground. - you don't have to run wires. - it hits way harder than a soundbar. you get the so approval factor of having something that looks nice. you're not rewiring anything. - yeah. - and - you can put them anywhere. - yeah. - you put one on your
coffee table behind you. you put one on your, like
your mantel, in the front, look they're literally. - they're not in the right places. - and they sound totally fine. - like it's not cheap,
but when you compare it to something like a premium soundbar. - it's basically the same thing. - but way better spatial performance. - yeah, if you go your best buy and buy your home theater in a box. it's easily gonna be two,
three grand, so yeah. - or it's gonna probably suck, whereas this actually
sounds like really decent. - yeah. (pop music playing) - i definitely would recommend getting the add-on subwoofer for this. - yeah. - maybe not for like an apartment, but if you have like a
townhouse or something. - yeah, you should go for it. - sub is good. - and you can always turn the sub down, but having it there, big difference. - but it's cool that you
can start with a soundbar or surround sound setup thing,
and then add the sub later. you don't have to pay for
it if you don't want it. - [on tv] where the hell that come? just came out of nowhere. probably team reported a storm
it their last transmission. - yo, turn it down a bit. - [on tv] hostels using it
for code, like an helmet. let's not find out. (engine roaring) - yeah, there was no speaker there. i could have sworn i heard that sound come from right there. - yeah, right behind you. - [both] and there is no speaker. - same thing with the tin closing. - yeah. - that's center sort of channel. - you know, what's cool actually? it's the tv's up there
acting as our center channel, but i don't hear it coming from up there. - no, it's fine - it's kinda just. yeah. - same thing. i definitely hear
something over there too. - and there's. - nothing there. - wow. - so that's it guys. thanks sony, for sending these
over, sponsoring the video. thanks you guys for watching. honestly, these might even make sense to just live in this room. i was gonna do a soundbar. hey, yvonne. what's the wife approval factor of these cylinders. they look fine? okay. bye.