- why settle for just two dimensions? yeah! when you can have three. a decade ago, the marketing machine behind 3d tv was so strong that even we got caught up in the hype. but after all those years not to mention the millions and millions of dollars spent promoting 3d as
"the next big thing," seems like no one cares anymore. to the point where if you blinked and missed the craze entirely, you might have never
seen a 3d tv in person. are you missing out? did 3d tvs really deserve to die or were they simply
left to slowly bleed out by an uncaring industry that's always chasing
the next shiny box badge? to imagine what could have been, we tracked down two of the
most notable 3d tvs to trial on our staff of highly
trained guinea pigs. was it cool or does the third d stand for "disappointment?" what's never disappointing
is our sponsor, amd. are you overdue for a gpu upgrade? well, it's a great time to purchase an amd radeon rx 6,000 series gpu. and you can get the inside
scoop on some great options from amd and their partners
at the link down below. (bright upbeat music) in the late 2000, 3d was picking up steam again as a cool new innovation, but it's actually really, really old tech. way back in'32. yes, 190 years ago, sir charles wheatstone
invented the stereoscope which used a pair of mirrors
angled towards images, taken from two slightly
different perspectives to create the illusion of depth. you might remember these and you've almost certainly
seen one of these. well both of them use
the exact same principle but it's a bit of a lonely
experience in here, isn't it? when the motion picture was created people were eager to try and blend the popular
novelty of stereoscopes and view masters with movies
resulting in anaglyphic 3d. these iconic red and cyan glasses have become the defacto symbol of 3d, but while they were super wowsers
for black and white movies they significantly degraded the experience of your new fangled technic color movies. of course, we've come
a long way since then and thanks to light
polarizing glass developed by polaroid that allowed
both convincing depth and full color 3d films would surge back at least three more times. first in the 1950s, "golden age," again in the '80s. - [announcer] jaws 3-d, the
third dimension is terror. - and finally in the 2010s spurred on by your favorite big blue aliens. no, not those ones. these ones. the difference they
said, was that this time you could bring the
immersion home with you. jake, get over here. - oh yeah. - i expected an action
tumble over the couch but that's pretty good. no, oh god! with no obvious downsides then, 3d was suddenly thrust back into nearly every form of entertainment that could fit a 3rd d but how did they bring it to the home where previous attempts failed? to understand home 3d, we need to first understand commercial 3d. the most common of which is the real d, 3d found in theaters. it works by projecting the image through a polarizing lens that actually alters its
polarization 144 times per second in step with 144 frames
per second of film. but wait a second, 144 frames per second. i thought movies are at 24 fps. well they are, but for starters, each of your eyes is gonna need
its own 24 frames per second so there's 48 frames right there and at that frame rate flicker from the polarization
lens is very noticeable. so to create a smoother experience, each frame actually gets shown three times for a shorter period. each of your eyes gets covered
by its own polarized lens which filters out every other frame giving you that 3d experience. in the home, by contrast though, the two steps of polarizing the light and filtering it out were split resulting in two main
categories of 3d technology, active and passive. representing these two,
we've got two displays that we're gonna look at today. first of which is a sony
playstation 3d display. this is not to be confused
with the playstation tv. this is our active 3d tv. it's 24 inches, 1080p and
sport 240 hertz refresh rate, but that does not mean that
it actually supports 240 fps content. it was a whole advertising
holdover from the plasma tv days. it should be noted that in 3d, it was only able to do 120
frames per second at 720p. our second representing passive 3d is the lg signature g6 oled from 2016. this is one of the last and arguably the best 3d tvs made before all manufacturing of 3d
tvs stopped later that year. it's 65 inches, 4k. it cost a whopping $8,000 and it's hdr peak brightness
is only 500 knits. so it only kind of supports
hdr, kinda like youtube only kind of supports hdr. get subscribed by the way. so you don't miss our
upcoming video on that. because it uses passive 3d, it comes with some huge advantages. before we take a look at the king though, let's talk about the peasant. i'm just gonna get all scooch back here. - oh my god! oh, move your hand. is that not immediate? oh, don't look at the lights. use your other stick. - i don't even know how to fire. - use your other stick. - oh, the stick fires. - this doesn't seem like a game where the 3d really does a whole lot. - i mean, it's cool. - what's better about
passive versus active. - oh, we're gonna talk about that boys. actually, i guess now's
as good a time as any to say that early on, pretty much all 3d tvs used
a mostly normal lcd display, which helped reduce cost and complexity but unfortunately relied on
active, 3d shutter glasses which brought both cost and complexity back into the picture. like the polarizing lenses built into the movie theater projector, these glasses are powered and
their lenses contain a layer of crystals that can rotate
when an electrical charge is sent through them. when those crystals rotate,
they block the tv's image from one of your eyes. so if you sync this up with
a high refresh rate display that alternates between the views that you're supposed to see, the left and right image, voila! the brain does its magic,
producing a 3d image. oh the script says before i try it i gotta gamer up with my wan hoodie, but i guess we've already
started trying it. - ittstore.com. - yeah exactly right. - when the game starts, it
immediately makes me wanna barf. - okay, ah, man, so you keep
saying stuff, that's like, "wow this is a perfect time to transition into the next scripted bit." fine, let's just do it. (chuckling) the issues with these passive displays and active shatter glasses are many. first up, the powered
glasses need batteries thus needing to be recharged. they can also suffer from
wireless interference if you block the sync transmitter, that's either on the display or as a separate piece of hardware. and many users complained
about comfort and flicker especially if there's any
other light in the room. - oh, don't look at the lights. - finally, of course they're expensive. displays that relied on
these kinds of glasses for their 3d effect would sometimes come with a pair or maybe
two included in the box, but if you wanted any more than that, they would run you anywhere
from $50 to over $150 each. not that you were likely
to need more glasses, the impressive library
of about 60 3d games for the playstation three pales in comparison to its overall library. and notably includes very
few multiplayer titles. in a nutshell, playstation
3d had many of the same pros and cons as in videos
3d vision for pc gaming. high cost, limited game support, reduced image brightness
and lcd technology that simply wasn't fast enough to fully separate the stereo images, which led to a lot of
brightness loss as well as frequent user headaches. options, oh, this is so cool. - yeah, i'm gonna try it now? - simulview. here we go. - man you lose so much
brightness with these. - they literally block half the light half the time.
- look at the light and then lift the glasses up. - oh, one other issue is
that devs weren't used to working in 3d meaning
that important information like the subtitles in
"kill zone," for example, would appear at a different depth than where you normally had to look. so you had to refocus
your eyes to read them and then look back. so if you blinked, you could
miss important information. of course the killer feature in my mind when i heard about the
playstation 3d display wasn't necessarily stereoscopic gaming, but simulview. simulview promised to
allow local multiplayer without splitting the screen. so each jake and i could
use half of the frames being output to see our
own version of the game. - really?
- cool, right? - yeah. i could see that being
cool if you could like watch different content from your spouse when you're sitting on the same couch. - okay, that's exactly
the next talking point. one of the most--
- what? - things i was most excited for was like the kids are
watching their kids movie with their headphones in. the wife and i are
watching some serious movie on the same tv. - yeah, that'd be pretty cool. - family time, right? - instead you gotta buy multiple tvs. - yeah, it's stupid. - are we playing at the
same time right now? - i think so. - oh my god we are.
- whoa. - this is so cool though. i never got to try it. i never had a playstation
3d display back in the day and only a handful of
games ever supported this, but i heard about this and i was like, "wow how amazing would that be, right?" like something like mario cart? - yeah. - if you could just
both have a full screen fricking display, that'd be amazing. - my head is pounding now. - it's very obvious, right? that the polarization filter isn't perfect and the pixels don't switch fast enough with lcd to completely
get rid of the ghost of the other image. so it can be very unpleasant
in the real world. because of the hard to ignore downsides of active 3d glasses, this tech ended up pretty
much completely abandoned. so then how does the
passive alternative fair? to find out, we're gonna have
to jump ahead a few years and a few price brackets to
the lg signature alleged g6. holy (beep), if i just close my right eye and jake closes his
left, here we go, boys. - it still works. - the first advantage of passive 3d tvs- - [david] hold on. - is that they can be more easily enjoyed with the whole family thanks
to much cheaper glasses. how cheap you might ask? well free. if you're willing to be creative this is a pair that
taren actually liberated from the movie theater
and they work just fine. we're supposed to try
it with a blue ray first but jake already got ahead
of ourselves a little bit and tried just closing one eye to see half of our kill zone game. and it's like, how well does
this compare to shatters? - yeah, way better. the brightness isn't crazy, but i can screen peek so easy. - well, it's cool up. - so wait, we can show
the camera this though. oh, linus, this looks so cool. - [linus] i know it does. here's the thing jake, i was a 3d nerd but-
- really? - yeah, the problem is that
the active shutter glasses gave me just a splitting headache. like i wanted to love it-
- i agree. - and the passive stuff, well, it never really got
good until the moment 3d died. - yeah. - this came out like in the
body of 3d was twitching and this tv was its last spasm and it finally got not good, but great. okay, here we go. you ready? - [jake] this doesn't look that 3d to me. - [linus] i can't tell. - [jake] i mean, it does kind of look 3d. - [linus] there's definitely
stuff popping out, but i don't think that i would call this a very satisfying experience. - well, we have blue lights. - yeah, but i really
wanted to see something that i think is actually gonna look good and titanic definitely won't. "independent day resurgence?" i mean, i don't think that
even looks good in 2d. hey roasted, can we
put them on a usb stick and just plug it into the tv? - oh my god maybe. - that's a thing. that might be a thing jake. we gave up on trying to play 3d files. we are on our titanic. blueray with our panasonic
fancy blueray player and we're ready now, right? - yeah, well-
- hit it. well wait, is it my control or the- - yeah, press 3d. oh wow.
- oh, wow. - i don't know if this is the movie i would go watch in 3d, like, oh wow the people are coming. they pop out of the corner. - yeah, this pen's coming right out, wow. - this guy's really in front. - very 3d. - like obnoxiously 3d. - and the brightness
difference is marginal. we've got some better
stuff coming in terms of the actual 3dness of the content. but in terms of how the tv
performs like good gravy, isn't that amazing? passive tvs are able to achieve
this level of brightness and i mean, it doesn't
give you a headache. - no, i don't have a headache. i mean i do have a headache
still from yesterday but that's the same headache. - the way that they do this
is that each alternate line vertically is actually
polarized the opposite way coming right outta the tv. and you can actually see it
if you take a pair of glasses and you hold it right up to your content. now on a regular 10 adp display that would be a bit of a problem because you'd be giving up half of your vertical resolution
for a 10 adp 3d movie. but because this one is 4k,
there's actually some trickery in the tv itself. so we are getting the full
1080p images interlaced because we have double the resolution. that's part of what makes this tv--
- what do they call like frame smushing or something like that. - what interlacing? - no, no, no. there's term.
- well, it works kind of like an interlaced video frame except that instead of
having just one frame with half of it being shown alternately, we've actually got two full frames, one for each eye utilizing
that full vertical resolution. come try it, david. - [david] sure. - this is an absolutely
incredible 3d experience though. - ah, well why don't we try a movie that might actually use 3d better? - yeah, "ocean predators." - oh, there we go. - hey--
- wow. that looks awful. wow. if you move around,
it looks so weird. - i'm actually kind of surprised at how well it works from
different viewing angles. i wanna, let's do an animated one. you figured out a way to play one of the animated ones right? - oh, i figured out how to play "doom." - i don't wanna watch "avatar," i wanna watch something
that's not gonna be (beep) - [jake] "boss, baby." - hi there. this is a bit of a long shot. do you guys have any 3d blueray in stock? you have a huge selection,
of course you do. found it in the clearance section. it's very popular, 3d blue. - they definitely got some
animated stuff in here. - yeah, whoa, "toy story?' - yeah, that'd be cool. - [linus] oh, this is not 3d. oh, 3d version included.
- yeah. - okay but let's pick
up some good stuff then. so i got- (cross talking) - cloudy with a chance meatballs. we got some "finding nemo."
- yeah. - $14, okay. i'm actually excited about this. - "shrek," that's what it takes them. - we all saw that i'm buying
these for work purposes. so i'm using the work card and they're staying at work. [music] it's business [music] - are you ready? - i'm ready. - you're ready to get shreked. - [linus] okay. - wow, this is actually- - [linus] this is awesome! - [jake] wow, though, the
3d is done like pretty well. this is the first one so far that i've been like this actually like kind of adds something. - the thing is when you've
got a two camera rig and you're trying to
shoot live action in 3d, focus is a nightmare, right? because you can only have one
part of the scene in focus and when you're watching it back then if you look and focus your eyes at a closer or a farther away object, it's out of focus. so you're focused on a blurry object. it just doesn't work. - there's still some weirdness like when somebody runs into the frame, it's kind of like jittery. - yes, man now i want a 3d
projector for the theater room. - goddammit, man this
is like a video game. there's like propaganda before it too. - woo, here we go. interesting, they didn't try
to overdo the 3d in this movie. - yeah, like in that scene it
was just the fireworks really. - yeah. - i feel like because
everything is so dark though, it kind of masks the 3dness, like in other content,
you notice it a lot more when there's big color changes between what's in the foreground and what's in the background. this is just whoa.
- okay. that where buddy was like below the playing field was pretty cool. (bright upbeat music) - okay-
- this is pretty cool. - switch it to 2d for a second, i wanna see what the difference is like. - sure. - oh yeah that's
immediately way more lame. (laughing) - at some point it should be noted that even with a 4k display,
depending on the 3d content you could still be limited to a vertical resolution of 540 lines. why? it often came down to bandwidth
limitations at the time while blue rays could
simply double the frame rate or a resolution that
would've added enough cost for broadcasters that any push for home 3d would've been dead on arrival. so most 3d is actually
handled by sending two images at half resolution and then
broadcasting them together in a single 1920 by 1080 frame. the two main ways they do this are side by side or top bottom, where you either lose half
of the horizontal resolution or half of the vertical
resolution respectively. the image gets sent to the
tv where they are then merged and displayed as a single
10 adp frame, 10 adp-ish. it's kind of like when
you're interlacing a 2d image but instead of interlacing
data from a single frame, it's actually from two separate frames that are destined to go
to each of your eye holes, truthfully on a quality
display like this one, it still looks pretty good. so why didn't 3d stick around this time? 3d was and continues to be
more difficult to produce and really easy to mess up. so even with that additional cost, it would often end up looking cheap. adding insult to injury, the content was expensive to distribute less comfortable for audiences. - (laughs) you can say that again. - and all of this at a higher price. glasses list 3d displays
like on the nintendo 3ds addressed some of these problems, games and animated films use virtual rather than physical cameras and are therefore much
easier to convert to 3d. but as 3ds users can attest, they have their own drawbacks
including crummy resolution and even crummier viewing angles. with all these problems in mind, it's no surprise that by 2016, just six years after being
thrust into the mainstream production of 3d tvs by
all major brands ceased. 4k blueray doesn't support 3d at all, nor do any modern consoles. and as far as we know there are no 3d tv
channels still available making it effectively dead. there are still niche pockets
of 3d enthusiasts though to my knowledge nvidia's
final 3d vision capable driver can still play old stereo 3d games. and the latest is from, i think 2020. voodoo apparently still supports 3d and these current model
projectors from jvc still include robust 3d
support for the handful of 3d blue rays that are
still being produced. but due to the complexity of shooting live action films in 3d many of them have 3d implemented in a way that's just kind of cheap and gimmicky looking
because it's added in post. so it's in the script. i doubt they sell very well but we know that for a fact, based on having actually
gone to the store, i don't know, maybe the new avatar is gonna kickstart another 3d renaissance. - i don't know. - they have a kid now and there's water, seems compelling enough to spend 13 years of your life working on, right? - or maybe you, we can
buy another $8,000 tv. - right? or maybe you could be
compelled to spend some money on our sponsor. - jackery. jackery makes solar ready
portable power stations designed to improve life on the go by providing that sweet
sweet power outdoors whenever and wherever you need it. their explorer 1500 portable power station has enough juice to keep
all your devices moving like jack rabbits. it's huge 1500 watt hour capacity
and'00 watt output rate, allows up to seven devices to
be plugged in simultaneously. and it only takes four hours
to charge from zero to 80%. so you can keep living large off the grid. so check out the explorer
1500 at the link below and get 10% off with
code "linustech tips." - if you like this video,
check out our video on the looking glass holographic monitor. another attempt at making
game changing 3d display tech but one that actually could
have a ton of potential.