- we're going back in
time, ladies and gentlemen. that's right, i just bought
out the remaining inventory of expc, a long dead pc store
that hasn't even had a website for the last eight years. so all of this stuff in here has been sitting around
collecting dust in a warehouse for nearly a decade, probably longer, judging on the state of
some of the packaging. do you wanna dig through it with me? do you want me to tell
you about our sponsor? thanks to pulseway for
sponsoring this video. pulseway is an all-in-one
platform management tool that can help protect your business from things like phishing and ransomware. try for free today at the
link in the video description. (bright jingle) there's four boxes?
(energetic music) - [colin] yeah, this
whole skid is all stuff. - oh, so we actually bought the
entire like remaining stock. - [colin] uh-huh. - this is a gpu water cooler, but it's unlike anything you
would find on the market today. oh, this is gonna be fun. you knew some of the wildest stuff had to be from thermaltake, right? like what do these guys not make? oh my gosh. remember laptop expansion
cards, ladies and gentlemen? you could add a whopping four
usb 2 ports to your laptop. nicole actually still has a
laptop that takes card, guys. whoa, this one's got usb 2 and firewire. you wanna ingest some footage, mark? - [mark] oh yeah. - at real time speed? what is this pill? this is a pill from buffalo. you know, the external hard drive guys? okay, i must know what the pill is. $9.50, this is the medicine
that your keyboard needs. it's got a twist top. fetch me a laptop. ah, yes. now for a product demonstration. yeah, i don't think
i'd pay $9.50 for this. i gotta do this thing, thermaltake. for the price of just 14.99, you could get the cyclo cooling memo. cyclone cooling for memory. oh, man. let me show you guys how we
cooled our memory, 2000s style. these look like led fans. i bet you $100 that they're blue. they're so weak. the rgb memory under it
makes these little pin leds look super unimpressive. surprisingly quiet for having been sitting for over a decade. move. these guys, i never understood
it, as an enthusiast, i was like, why do they exist? why do you get to charge $12 for the world's most
basic 80 millimeter fan, even back then? did say 80, i meant 70. and that's the answer, because star tech has one of basically everything. hold on a second. i recognize this packaging. this was exactly the
same scheme and packaging that ncix used for its
house brand ngear products. these were the shizz though,
taking your floppy drive 'cause like, who needed one of those, and turning it into a card reader with that sd, mmc, compactflash,
smartmedia, memory stick. man, do you guys remember when sony had so much proprietary bullcrap? me too 'cause it was yesterday. and also 20 years ago. wanteng series usb port
equipment plug and play. what even is it? a usb to parallel cable so you
can plug in your old printer. - [colin] oh, i legitimately
might need that for my lathe. - you need this?
- [colin] yep. - take it. removable fram for three and a half inch and two and a half inch hdd. this is before my time. holy crap. you would use a five
and a quarter inch bay, so that's your optical drive bay, you'd plug this chungus
bad boy into it, i mean, that's why we had full towers
that were this freaking big. boy, have we ever come
a long way on these? got your usb-c two and a half inch drives, got these little tiny mobile ssds, you're just off to the races. but no, this, this is technology. but at least you had security. you know, you got the lock on the front. okay, now we're getting
into the real good stuff. zalman has tried just
about everything, i think. and this is their 5.1
channel headphone amplifier. colin, how much you wanna
bet that this still works? - [colin] 20 bucks. - 20 bucks, okay, that's too
much, too rich for my blood. hold on a second. this thing is crazy. what? no, colin, it is not, in fact, usb. - [colin] it's just rca. - volume control interface
between 5.1 channel headphones. you can plug two users into
it, so you've got your front, rear, and center/subwoofer
channels for both, separate volume knobs. who would have bought this? and then you've got whatever your sources, front left, front right, (mumbles). you know what, colin? i was wrong. this would totally work. not that you'd want to 'cause
it's really, really stupid. thanks, digital surround. look at this flow meter. you wanna know how fast
your water's going? what about this? it stinks. that's weird. bye. tv capture, i remember tv tuner cards. i really wish that this
had been more of a thing. it was because of resistance
from the cable cutters, you guys know that, right? they wanted you to sit and
watch the freaking ads. (beep) ah, these were fun. okay. so we've got both an ati
silencer and an nv silencer 4. and as you guys can probably
guess, these were for ati and nvidia cards respectively and these were fricking
awesome, arctic cooling, man. they were the schiz back in the day. and this is not nearly old enough, colin, if this was your intention. most graphics cards back
in the day were single slot and they would have these
wimpy little coolers, in fact, in a lot of cases, they
wouldn't even be configured like this one where they're
blowing air toward the back of the case, they would just be sitting on the card right here chilling
just blowing air around into your computer case, and
what that obviously affected was your cpu temps, your
motherboard temps, everything else, because even back then, your gpu was one of the hottest running
components in the system. arctic cooling allowed you
to put what is actually, by modern standards, a
pretty decent looking cooler on your gpu after the fact
that had multiple benefits. better performance, quieter. and they had the added benefit
of kicking all the heat out of your system. so check this out. you got your copper cold plate. you've got cooling for your memory chips. then you had your cooler. this guy right here would go like this, blowing air through these fins. and then you can see it's
actually kind of ducted here in its shape. so you'd have your stock
pci cover right here. and then they would give
you a second vented one to install next to it,
effectively turning your gpu into a modern style dual slot card. so it would expel all
the heat from your case through the back io panel, and
then this is the best part. check this out. okay, we've seen coolers for
the backs of graphics cards. in fact, a lot of coolers come
with a backplate these days, even this one comes with a backplate. but this was back when they
cared about freaking cooling on the backplate. your card would be this thick. oh no. i love this. this is amazing. i remember these. jake. you wanna make the server go faster, boys? - [jake] yeah? - you gotta put one of
these on your hard drive. - [jake] oh, i know what that is. - actually, oh, can i have
one of the new server ones? thanks, jake. i can't promise i won't
put thermal paste on it. it actually served multiple purposes, these things were kind of cool if you had like a 10,000
rpm wd raptor drive or something like that. basically, you pop off the top, and then you can see the
inside is both heatsinked and yet insulated. why would that be, you might ask? they served two purposes,
one was anti-vibration. so the only drives that needed
a cooling enclosure like this were ones that spun at higher
rpms, high performance drives. and they tended to vibrate more. so you've got this thick
foam padding right here that theoretically will make
it vibrate less, i guess. oh my gosh, this thing
feels so chungus in here. it totally doesn't fit, and you know what, maybe i have the drive in upside down. hold on, hold on. yeah, ide interfaces were at the bottom. oh my god, it still works. tell me this doesn't feel
like performance hard drive. you can't. - [jake] it feels terrible. - shut up, it does not,
i want a second opinion. colin, come touch my hard drive. all right, let's toss it in the pot. just kidding, just kidding,
just kidding, just kidding. should have seen the look
on jake's face, here you go. oh, i forgot about this one. oh my gosh, okay. so this is thermaltake doing
what thermaltake does best, ripping off someone else's product. so you can see it's basically that arctic cooling cooler, right? except thermaltake added their
own bizarro land spin to it and added water cooling to it. so it actually does both, it's like a hybrid air/water cooler, and there were a handful
of these back in the day. i actually reviewed one back
when i was ghost-writing for hardware canucks. you managed to bring me every
8800 card except the one that this fits, this only goes on the gtx. - [colin] i tried. - it's okay, it's okay. these coolers were actually kind of neat because they used air cooling
for your memory and your vrms and all that good stuff. and then they used water
for the gpu itself, do we have a screwdriver, can
i have an ifixit kit handy? the main benefit of this
approach is that it allowed you to focus all of your
radiator power, right, so all of your cooling
capacity, on the gpu, which was what really
mattered for overclocking. and it kept all of this heat
from your dram and your vrms and all that good stuff out of your water, so you could just dump
that out of the system with air cooling and then use
all of your radiator capacity to get the lowest possible
temps on your gpu. the only issue with that theory is that you bought a
thermaltake water block. so let's go ahead and open this up. and we're gonna find what i'm expecting to be a very rudimentary block design. holy (beep), is this just sealed? we would have to cut it open. what were these screws even? oh, they attached it to the heat sink. how hard is it for us to cut
open a copper thing like this, just saw it in half? - [colin] the bandsaw is
pretty dead right now. - the bandsaw is dead? can we throw it in the mill and just (imitates slicing noise)? - [colin] sure? - awesome, thanks, colin. while colin's working on getting us a look at that thermaltake block, i wanna show you guys
something really special, this is not actually
from expc, this is from- [music] brian the electrician [music] - he dug it up somewhere, i have no idea. if cpu fan stops working,
cpu may become too hot. new cpu fan must be installed. if cpu fan is not working,
look. the red light is on. but listen, the alarm is heard. the green light is on
when cpu guard is on duty. you guys ready for this? whoa, this thing is older than i thought. i thought the pcb was black, which would be an indicator of the age. not only is it green,
it's this kind of green. and as far as i can tell, this
board was manually assembled. it was quite common for
molex-powered peripherals to have a y splitter in the package. and the idea was that
a lot of power supplies didn't have extra molex connectors. so if you wanted to
plug in your cpu guard, oh, it's a little crusty, you'd need another cable coming off of it so that you could plug
in your optical drive or whatever else it was that
was plugged into it originally. the green light is on
when cpu guard is on duty. the system just shut down. all i did was power this
board, am i gonna... oh my god, this is not turning on. i don't know if we're gonna
be taking another crack at cpu guard, i was so excited to hear it. look at the size of the speaker on it. like this thing was gonna freaking go. oh, you know what? i think there's a manufacturing defect. there's a ball of solder
in between these pins here. hold on. i bet if i pick that out, it'll work. (beeping) it works! okay, it's really annoying.
one moment, please. (whirring) okay, okay, i need a crappy
fan to absolutely destroy, wire strippers, and a sacrificial molex. stay in there, this is
such a cheap housing. it just falls right out. okay, where's that damn zalman fan then? (tape fast-forward screeching) oh yeah. oh yeah. okay, you guys ready? you get, oh! you get, oh! it's sparking. it was completely not grounded in any way, even though there's a ground
pin running right through it to the power supply. how is that even possible? okay, look, i'm not saying the
cpu guard is the best product in the world, i'm just saying that, when your cpu fan stops... (beeping) red light, cpu fan is not working. (laughs) oh, it works, i love it, sort of. (laughs) the last thing i wanted to look at, the inside of this
thermaltake water block. yes, my friends, that is
basically a heat sink style, like north bridge heat sink
style of fin construction. this would be so restrictive
'cause your flow comes in the side. and then they don't even have
like a channel at the back, like an open channel at the
back for it to flow through and come out the other one. it's not just cheap, it's stupid. how could you possibly
design something this bad? is there a flow-through like
that i'm not seeing here? there isn't. there's no path for the
water to make its way to the other side. this is just a solid wall of fin. it would stop your water
flow dead, basically. oh, you know what? it's probably the domed top. - [colin] yeah, there's
definitely an air gap. - [linus] yeah, but there
were barely any places for the water to come out into the thing. - [colin] and that's
why it had bad reviews! - yeah. hey, reviews, the system works. hey, sponsors, the system
works for that too. this video is brought to you by... thanks, squarespace, for
sponsoring this video. we use squarespace,
like no joke, we use it, both our linusmediagroup.com
and ltxexpo.com websites were built quickly using squarespace and are easily maintained if we need to make any quick changes like, say, canceling our expo for two years in a row. if you haven't heard already, squarespace is an all-in-one
platform that makes it simple to get your website up
and running quickly. if you have a home business,
you definitely need one. you can even sell things. you can choose from tons
of different templates and find the one that makes
the most sense for you and then just run with it. and if you trip while you're
running, you need help, squarespace offers webinars,
a full series of help guides, or you can contact their 24/7 support team to help you build your site. so go to squarespace.com/ltt
and get 10% off today. thanks so much for following along in this archeological exploration of tech. if you guys wanna see more like this, why not check out my
attic exploration video where i unearthed some
long forgotten history from the early days of linus media group? and there's some fun
tech in there as well.