hello and welcome i'm james murphy and today we're 
going to be installing python for data science.   why is installing python for data science any 
different than installing python for any other   reason? well when you're working with data you 
often don't know exactly what you're looking for   ahead of time. you just kind of want to play with 
the data and then decide what you want to do with   it later. if you just installed python directly 
you're probably not going to have all the tools   that you need in order to interactively explore 
data. that's why i recommend that if you're going   to do any kind of data analysis you should install 
anaconda, which packages all these common data   analysis tools for you. especially if you're new 
to python this can really help because you don't   have to worry about what packages and things to 
install. anaconda just comes with all the most   popular ones pre-built in. you don't have to worry 
about anything. if you are watching this video   most likely you're looking for the individual 
edition so let's download the individual edition.   most likely you are running a 64-bit machine 
and you should choose the 64-bit option. it's nearly half a gigabyte big so 
it might take a while to download.   alright now that it's finished downloading 
let's go ahead and run the installer.   click next to continue and accept the 
license agreement. i recommend installing   just for yourself, that way you won't need 
admin privileges. by default it's going to   install anaconda into your home directory. note 
that it's going to take up nearly 3 gigabytes   of memory so make sure you have the space before 
trying. go ahead and click to go to the next step.   i recommend not adding anaconda to your path 
or registering it as your default python   so leave both of those boxes unchecked. then 
you can proceed with the installation. okay   it finished. that took about five minutes for me. 
remember it had to unpack three gigabytes of data.   then go ahead and click through the rest. i 
wouldn't bother with either of these tutorials.   you'll now find that you have something 
called anaconda navigator in your system,   let's go ahead and run it. this is a dashboard showing you all the different 
programs that are either installed with anaconda   or available to download through anaconda. the 
one that i recommend using for data science is   jupyter lab. don't get confused with the 
similar but older jupyter notebook setup.   jupyter lab is similar to jupyter notebook. it's 
running the same code under the hood and it's   written by the same people. the difference is that 
jupyter lab is designed to be a more all-inclusive   integrated development environment whereas 
jupyter notebooks are kind of just looking at   single files one at a time. let's go ahead and 
launch jupyter lab. once jupyter starts you'll   find yourself in your home directory. i recommend 
making a new folder for your python projects. go ahead and navigate inside the folder. now 
we can finally create our first python notebook   by clicking on new notebook. you can rename the 
notebook by right-clicking and selecting rename   notebook. and now you can just type python code 
into these cells. once you've typed the python   code you can execute it using shift enter. notice 
that a new cell appeared below the first one.   i can write different code in this cell and 
run the cell independently of the other cell.   the state of any variables you assign is preserved 
so anything that you do in a previous cell can   still affect other cells. but i can still go 
back and run previous cells again if i want to.   i went ahead and downloaded a 
sample csv file into this directory,   which we can now load into memory 
so that we can explore like this. as you can see i can see the data set and 
decide what to do next based off of what   i see. i don't need to have the whole thing 
planned out already. this is the main benefit   of using jupyter lab: you can see the data 
and then decide what to do with it later.   go ahead and start playing around with it 
yourself. now you just need to know how   to effectively use python for data science, but 
that's a different video. thank you for watching.