- this is gonna be quite a short video. - is this $4,000 of starbucks? are you serious? - hey, ltt, welcome to my crib, let's go check it out. - sarah, this is the bathroom. (sarah laughing) that's right, ladies and gentlemen, "intel extreme tech upgrade" is back, the one and only sarah
butt got a $5,000 budget from intel for the ultimate tech makeover, and we are gonna be checking out, not her front door, for obvious privacy reasons, so we used this door. (both laughing) (upbeat music) hey, arlo, do you wanna come with us? oh, come here. (linus grunting) - this is gonna be quite a short video. i present to you my upgrade. - wait, what? - so i got, of course, my 12th gen intel cpu. - yeah, got an i-12700k. - and then, a $4,000 starbucks gift card. - who signed off on this? is this $4,000 of starbucks? - of course. what do you expect? i get money, i need coffee, like... - are you serious? i can't tell. - i'm not serious. - oh, my god. (sarah laughing) - so this is actually my regular setup, i did install these shelves yesterday. - okay, wonderful. - let's go check out what i actually got. - let's do that, i... - sorry, before i give
my boss a heart attack. - she actually got me. (sarah laughing) sorry, i'm still reeling, it's not like it's technically against any kind of established rules. - that's what i thought, i still got the cpu. - i bought a cpu, i put it on a shelf, and now, i'm gonna chug coffee... - yes. - for the next 10 months. - i literally got everything
i could possibly need for the perfect graphic design/gaming and streaming setup. - that is sick. - yeah.
- i'm already loving some of these choices.
- right? - like, so many people didn't
think of stuff like this. where do i keep my laptop? - and when i need my apple systems, i can just plug my computer in or my laptop into my monitor and ready to go. - the peach edition from red bull, is this part of it, though? - yeah, it actually is.
- okay. - so i figured if i was
gonna really be a gamer, i need my energy drinks, so i invested some of my funds into that. - i noticed. you are one of the first to go relatively modest in terms of gpu. so break it down for me, what's your intended mix here for like graphic design versus gaming time versus streaming time? - so i just wanna make sure that i can get a good mix of all three, my system doesn't need
to be super overpowered, it just needs to be
able to handle the adobe and creative cloud programs, but as well as like run steam, run some games that i enjoy
playing like apex or minecraft. - i think this will
handle minecraft, okay? - yeah, i think so too. - might be all right. ooh, maybe not, actually. i'm kidding. - so what... - i'm gonna have to try and get her before this video is done. we're gonna have a crap ton
of cable management to do. - yes.
- if we're doing microphones, like, studio monitors, laptop arm, we better get started. - let's gather the computer.
- yeah, load me up. oh, okay. (linus mimics) i am passing the... no, i yap, whoa, that's a heavy motherboard. - yes, so everything i
got is new computer parts except for the power supply, we are gonna use the old power supply from my previous computer. - there's way more stuff
here than i thought, are you sure you're within budget? - i am. - i didn't even see the chair.
- i promise. - i bet you didn't pay for this. - no, of course not, i designed it for goodness' sake. - stolen from work, 100%, is this part of the intel
extreme tech upgrade? - so this, i bought myself, but all of the paint and art supplies are part of the upgrade. and as an artist, i really
wanted to be able to put some of the money into buying some nicer art supplies for myself, so i got a set of all new acrylic paints, some new paint brushes, some new sketchbooks,
all of the fun stuff. - ooh. - and of course, how can we forget, the brand new ltt store cable ties. - that's right, now they are
a 50 pack for the same price, and available in a bunch
of different colors. - yeah, i had to get the
white to match my upgrade. - buddy, that's not your chair. if you hang there, you are
gonna get butted at some point. - okay, let's get you all of
the computer compartments. - all right, i'll stop
getting distracted by the cat. oh, my god, there's so much stuff here. - so i've got a new keyboard, a new mouse, a wacom tablet. i got some merch from my
favorite film production company, a24, because when you design merch, you also enjoy other people's merch. - right. (upbeat music) - you got it? oh, god. - no, i'm good. my nose is flat, i cannot see. (box crumpling) - originally, i wanted
to build the computer, but i think that might take a lot longer than we want to, so... - that's okay, we got all day. all right, sarah's building a computer. - okay, let's do it. - new ltt screwdriver. oh! - i think this is the intended use, right? for this new screwdriver? - yeah, i think so. can you tell there's a bit
of rivalry between the like, fashion graphic design team and the engineering team? the way they treat each
other's products? shameful. - oh, my gosh, he wants the thing
hanging off of the light. - i think i have a better
chance of jumping into orbit. i'm not calling you cat fat, i'm just...
- it's okay. - saying he's...
- he's got a lot of fur weighing him down. - oh, yeah, it's fur for sure. i'm thirsting for computers. - so is arlo.
- yeah. - so i know after being an
experienced computer person, i know you start with the motherboard, so i will get to opening that. - okay. - oh. (kitchen cabinet slamming)
- tray. - oh, smart. - so i did get the z690-a motherboard to kind of match the black and white theme that i'm going for. one nice bonus that i don't have on my... (linus exclaiming) - he just knocked it over. (linus laughing) you do have... - wow, it comes with a little key chain, some stickers, this is the
stuff that really matters, who cares about this? (sarah whistling) that is a spiffy motherboard. - some really good features
on this motherboard, mkay? we've got support for pcie gen 5, along with 12th gen intel core processors. got the nice little pci
express release button here, which is super cool, if you ever need to get
your graphics card up. got lots of power phases, this is a freaking sick motherboard. - there's the little triangle right there, and see, i've got the
little triangle here. - mm-hmm, go ahead and stick it in. oh, my god, you're shaking so much, okay, hold on, hold on,
hold on, hold on, hold on. - it's not... - no, no, that's not a triangle. so the triangles here. - oh. - and also there. okay, cool. - so we gotta flip it
the opposite direction? - this is actually a really
good opportunity, though, for us to talk about the other way that you can landmark your cpu, because we'd really never mentioned it. so there's the triangle method, right? where you've got the little
golden triangle in the corner, and you line that up with the triangle that's either on the socket cover or silk screened onto the motherboard, but intel cpus are also keyed, see that? you've got these
- oh. - little notches in the side of the chip, and so, you can check that and you can validate
them against the notches that are also here in
the socket to make sure that you've got it in the right spot. - all right. i did it. - nice.
- all right? and now, we close it. - that's... - am i not supposed to do that? - not how i would've closed it, but sure. - maybe took me two tries, but i did it. - you did it. what's next? - ram.
- yes. - so i'm taking two ram
from my old computer. - okay.
- and i'm also installing two new ram. don't worry, i made sure
that they're all the same, so we're not gonna have any issues there. - two ram for you, my lady. - thank you. after doing "secret shopper," i would say i'm pretty good
at putting ram sticks in. i know to look for the click,
but i don't wanna jinx myself. - a little pro tip for
installing ram on camera is you wanna put populate
from farthest away from the camera operator. - that makes sense. - it's okay, don't worry about it. - arlo, pardon me, thank you. next, i believe, is the ssd, correct? - correct, so you've got multiple options in terms of your ssd install, you have a really high performance ssd, we've got a sabrent rocket 4 plus, this is a gen 4 ssd, so while you could install it here, here, or here...
- oh, it goes here. - there's a total of four
m.2 slots on this mofo. - yeah. - you're gonna want this one, yeah. - awesome.
- exactly. - okay, ssd. so this part goes in here. (sarah and linus laughing) - so what you're gonna wanna do is you're gonna wanna turn this clockwise to lock it into place. - oh.
- yeah, it's a really cool
little toolless mechanism that asus has now. - oh, i just have... - wow, what did you do? - i'm sorry. can we like press... - no, stop, stop touching it. stop.
(sarah laughing) - i have this aio from ek. i was promised, there was gonna be a
12th gen bracket in here, but it doesn't say that, there's one on the box, so i actually am a little nervous that that's not gonna happen. matt, if you're watching this and you're wrong, bad news. (sarah laughing) you're fired. - you don't have that power, sarah. - we're actually making
really good progress so far. - [david] don't say that.
you're gonna curse it. - (grunting) knock on fake wood. is it working? - i think so, yeah, i think we're golden
- okay, that's good. - but not because the
correct mounting hardware was included, so you can
let matt know about that. - yeah, matt's fired.
- was not... no, that's not what i said. (both laughing) sheesh.
- sheesh. - i'm just gonna move this. woo. yes, it has a built-in io shield, so we don't have to worry
about putting the io shield, you're good to put your motherboard in. - okay, there we go. - perfect, like a perceptional. (hands clapping)
- beautiful. - our lo tired from helping. - yeah.(sarah laughing) - it's a tough life. - eat, sleep and poop. what a life? (paper crumpling) where's my scissors. - really? yeah. totally easy. - yeah. the easiest. - i do love to like
tease yvonne like that. like if you can't open a
jar or whatever, i'll like, - it's just so here.
- i'll totally go to my way, to make it seem like as
easy as possible to be like, yeah. oh yeah. oh, here you gohan. oh, wow. that's crazy. it almost looks kind of cool. this like,
- oh, it's dust - pattern on here, but yeah, you've got a dust pattern
on your powers play. i often get like allergies
when i'm cleaning. i think i have some kind of, well, i tell my wife it's
cuz i'm allergic to cleaning. (sarah laughing) that's good. sorry, hannah. i really
wanna help, but just. - can't clean. - hold on a second. is his
food up there or something? - no, i have no idea why
he's trying to get in there. - your butt is so wide, but cat. i think he has a wider but than me. - definitely
- [david] it's close. - get over here arlo. - eddie, who i have this gm
mk pro keyboard that i bought. i really wanted to try
assembling one on my own. so i got all of the pieces here. i decided to go with blue keys because that's what i have in
my keyboard that i use now. there's more stickers. i love when things come with stickers. if you buy from ltt store, your package will likely
come with stickers. - designed by. - designed by ma. now i've noticed this keyboard, like the base of a
keyboard is really heavy. - oh wow! yeah. that's a machined base.
- yeah. - how much has that keyboard? - i actually don't
know, but it looks nice. - thanks intel. - i don't need this cable
because i actually bought like the iconic keyboard style cable. how does this? - so you just take this and
line it up and give it a little. - okay. i've got a lot of these to do. - yeah. a hundred times. what is he doing? - it's just laying on his back. - hi, i'm actually like, not far from finishing this machine. - it's nice. it's kind of been like a
painless process so far. other than that one.
- oh, why would you say that? ah! sorry. everything has gone so smoothly. - you're still doing it. - i'm sorry.
- you're still doing it. - all of my switches are in my keyboard and i guess next i put the
keys on for the key caps. - tediously put a hundred things on. - yeah.
- again. - oh! i have to do this
in the right order too. i didn't think about that. - i mean, you don't have to. - a, b, c no joking. - oh, we're gonna need to mod this again. basically there's magnets
on the front piece, but you're supposed to hook
these bad boys into the bottom. - okay. - because there's a radiator there. - oh,
- they can't go in. so these need to come off. do you have a pair of like
needle, nose pliers or something? - we might have to like heat
up a knife and cut them off. - i says, pardon. - well i couldn't find any pliers. and i figure that may
be the next best thing. - i do wanna point out
that we are not at work. so if anything bad happens, sarah's in her own home
doing her own thing. - we got a little bit of brown on there. i might paint it. i don't know. - did you wait? did you ever put the gpu in? - oh no, i didn't.
- right. - i got sidetracked by
doing fun craft projects. i always love holographic packaging. our new sticker packs actually
have holographic stickers. - okay, we we're getting very
hung up on stickers today. - when we got this gpu, i didn't realize that the little
stickers on top of the fans are actually like a
really weird yellow color. (upbeat music) - it's a big problem. (sarah sighing) hey. - is that in? - yeah, wow! there was almost no crunch. - wow! that is a beautiful computer. - this is it. this is
the moment it's loud. - i love it. - are we ready to head upstairs and try and post this machine? - yeah, let's do it. - i didn't want the
silver or the black dial. i'm not gonna lie. i'm not really.
- i think the silver. yeah, i'm not feeling it
either. it does not match. - bye, bye buddy. i'm stuck
(sarah laughing) - is it in there? - i wasn't pretending. i'll totally go to my way to make it seem like as
easy as possible to be like, yeah, oh yeah. oh, here you go, hann. holy crap. that is. - we need david. - what are you implying? - i'm sorry. - here hold on. let's
get a shot of these arms. - you can do it.
- i don't it's course. - well, sarah, at least there will be a story behind why your keyboard doesn't match. - yeah. - [david] nope. it's impossible. - let's take this show upstairs, shall we? - let's do it. - all right. oh, side panel. you know what? we'll put
the side panel on there. this sarah is why you will
never be allowed to design a white mouse pad again. - never. i've already spilled on it. literally i'm not even joking within putting it down two
minutes, spilled coffee on it. (linus laughs) these i've borrowed from
somebody and i have my own. now that we're gonna install. - got it. so this has to. - yes.
- got it. - but.
- okay. - i also have two monitor on
that will also need to install. - when show's gonna be late
and you know whose fault it is. - worth it. am i right? - [david] maybe for you yeah. - yeah. for you. - i've never set up a monitor arm before and i really have no idea what i'm doing. - well, the first thing you're doing wrong is mixing your parts
in with mine, hold on. - uhoh
- thank you. by the way, sarah, this
is super cross threaded. those screws are never coming out. - oops, i did get this
monitor as part of my upgrade, but this one i owned previously. - cool. - this is a ben q 32 inch like srg, b calibrated design monitor. - cool. - so this is what i use in
like my day to day work. - and this is. - this is a gaming
monitor so that i can game and have it look nice. - 2560 by 1440. - yeah, so i have a tremendous
number of things here from my mouse to my wacom
tablet, to my nanoleaf panels. so i'm just start unboxing everything. i don't even know where to start. ideally for a stream set up, obviously you'd want a microphone. so i did get the psa1+ mic arm. wow! - you have a lot of monitor lady. - i didn't plan for
the pc to be on my desk so we can also move that down. what i want to be able to do
is have my laptop also on here. and if the pc is there,
i also have speakers. so yeah, after lots of
discussion with a few people throughout the office, i was recommended this
audio-technica microphone. i guess it's just really
standard and good for stream. so is. - it there ltt 2020?
- [david] it is. - yep.
- yep, okay. - linus agrees. so that's a good sign. wow! it comes with a little pouch. - you're impressed by the wrong stuff. - look at. it's so cute. - so you're not even gonna spend any time looking at like my beautiful
cable management job. - i wish i could, but that wouldn't be a
optimal for the setup that i'm going for. it is a shame. - i just got dumped in
the nicest possible way. (sarah laughs) so you just kind of move
it till you're happy with where it is. - okay. i think there, oh wait, these should be like
beside each other, right? - so does it need to go over more now? - nope, that seems fine. - are you very sure? - i'm pretty certain. - okay. - i like it. - all right. that's awesome. let's start getting
things built up on here. - yay. - oh, i wanna know if
this computer turns on. - oh, the button, but the one button. - okay. do the honors. okay. i see blowing lights. that's a good sign.
- that's yes. - that's enough rgb sarah? - oh! absolutely.
- all right. especially 'cause you won't
be looking at it ever. (sarah laughing) 32 gigs ram, 12,700 k,
storage is detected. all we need is a keyboard. - i got this desk pad from grove made. i'm sorry. i am a trader to "ltt store". but i really just wanted something simple. - so what makes a grove
made special anyway? - it's just black. uhoh, maybe once we put the
10 pound keyboard on top, it'll stay down. oh my gosh! it's beautiful. except for that. but everything else? - i send you to get one thing
and you not to have bring it. - oh, i need the mic arm.
- mouse. - oh no. that's on here. - oh geez! okay, great. perfect. - we were with the beautiful
pro superlight from logitech. - that's not why you
choose a pro superlight. - why?
- feel how light it is. - oh, i don't really care about that. it's white. that's what i bought it for. wow! i've never felt mouse as light, stark contrast from the keyboard. - it is pretty though, yes. - that is beautiful. - confirmed pretty. - i almost think it's prettier
than the computer itself. - [david] whoa! - i'm joking. - canto. what made you choose? oh, like my god. i know the answer. they're white. - [both] oh! - uhoh arlo. one of those
is not attached to the wall. - oh buddy. - yeah. the top corner on the right side. - [all] oh! (sarah laughing) - oh no, no, no, no, no, no, no. okay. i'm so sorry. come here. come on. - he's taking it with him. - arlo, come here, okay. i'm sorry, down you get. - for streaming, the webcam
that i was recommended was the c920s by logitech. so that's what i went with. - oh my god. the n key's not working. (keyboard clicking ) - huh? - oh, it's back. that's okay. i have an idea. - okay. oh, who needs a keyboard, right? - gaming stance. show me
your best gaming stance. - i gotta scooch in a little. - okay.
- all right. i'm gaming. i'm gaming.
- david. - we need to show her
how it's done i think. okay, this is your gaming stance. you gotta get in - [david] this close to monitor. - no, i'm kidding. (sarah laughing) i'm kidding. you don't actually. - you game like this
with your most backwards. - i'm that advanced. otherwise it's too easy. - i am really into this
game. whatever i'm playing. - okay. so we're-- - and i'm talking because i'm streaming. - you don't have to talk. children should be seen, not heard. - do you break it wouldn't
be the first time you broke somebody doing one of these
videos broke somebody. (sarah laughing) (metal creaks)
- something. - [david] andy's never been the same. - yeah, of course, if you go with an xlr mic, you're not gonna be able to
just plug into a usb port on your computer. so i'm not actually familiar with this particular
brand of audio interface. - it's white. it looks
pretty and it matches. - those are all the same thing. - and i've been told it's good. - okay. where do you want this bad boy, you're not gonna have a ton of options - there. that's good. - this is a pretty short xlr cable. so-- - yeah, it's 6 inches, i think. - close enough. yeah. - [david] that's 6 inches? - sorry six feet. - is this's what you think six inches is. (sarah laughing) wow.! now is that
suitably out of your way? - absolutely. - okay.
- yeah. - so that's it. that's our little buddy. okay, you know what? it doesn't matter. the point is there, it's there. - i've had this computer
for five years now and the cable is starting to die. so as part of my upgrade, of course, i just got
a couple of new cables. - right. - and a new little block too. - it really makes you
wonder why apple tries to make anything white when
they can't keep it white for longer than--
- like look at, disgusting. - i know, right? how much
was this piece of nu? - i think it was around $70. - because it's from mac. - yes. and i couldn't get white, but the black still matches
the black and white theme. - oh, yeah. i think you're good. - this is really coming together. - that's sick. this is
like a command station now. - it is beautiful. - this is an actual thing you can buy. does google actually sell this? - yes, i have been eyeing
this for probably two years. well, they actually came out with one that doesn't glow in the dark, but then they launched the dark mode one and i knew as soon as i found
out i was getting an upgrade, this is gonna be part of it. it's the real life dino game. - it's pretty cute. i
will give that to you. - i find it a lot easier doing work, using a wacom tablet instead
of mouse and keyboards. so i also picked one
of these up for myself. i guess it really does
add to making the ideal like graphic designer/gaming setup. 'cause you can use it for
a lot of different things. - i can't say i've ever heard
of a24. what do they do? - well, they're a film production company. they honestly have produced
some of my favorite films like midsommar and hereditary and some award winners like
moonlight and lady bird. - cool. - so i picked up these screen playbooks because i already have some and i wanted to complete my collection. - okay. - how beautiful they are.
like as a graphic designer. i love books that do a
lot of like visual play with typography and photography and these like really tickle
that like design funny bone. - wow. what's this now, then? - that's just a blanket. - oh it's the.
- it's the ratios. - yeah, it's the ratios. - oh, that's fun and upside down here. let's get that fixed for you. - look it. oh, it's so cool. - that is really cool.
and then what are these? - those are t-shirts. - okay. - very simple logo design. - oh, cool, okay. - i also got a mug. i already have the
hereditary, one of those and i wanted to pick
up the midsommar ones. so i guess we'll put that. oh no, i'll put it on top of here. - you got a bit of a
thing for dinosaurs, hey. - i love dinosaurs. if
you walk around my house, we've got hidden dinosaurs everywhere. - you've got dinosaur faces,
dinosaur ramps, dinosaur. - so these pieces actually i commissioned an artist from saskatchewan. he specifically draw
like dinosaurs and stuff and i really loved his style, so yeah. i commissioned three pieces from him and i thought they would
be a great addition to my gaming room. in order to make this kind of
like a sanctuary for myself. i bought a diffuser because
i really love essential oils and they help, kind of create an ambiance. and while i'm streaming, i definitely will get stressed out and hopefully this will help. - i am liking it. i could
get comfortable here. this is awesome. we do need to figure out why
the end key is not working. (keyboard clicking) you know what, why don't
we try a new key switch? 'cause like that's a thing. whoops! there it goes. oh, you mushed it. yep. - oh, that's why. - this is an amazing set up. - right? i've got, got everything. - arlo agrees. (sarah laughing) i've done an okay job
of the cable management. - that's fine. - i'm not gonna say it's
my finest work, but it's. and this is apparently
supposed to come this way. i don't care. i'm putting it over here. - at the end of the day, linus
we've got those speakers. hopefully they work well.
haven't tested them yet. - oh, yeah. right. - a wonderful microphone. a new keyboard, mouse
desk mat and two monitors. - are you gonna stream tonight? - yes, i'll be streaming tonight. it's been a long day. - and it's been a lot of fun. thank you guys for
tuning in, this has been, "the sarah butt edition of
intel extreme tech upgrade". we've got lots more coming down the pipe. and if you guys enjoyed this, we've got a lot more for you to watch some of my personal
favorites, dennis, andy man. they've all been good. riley was great. - david.
- i'm right here like this. - david was great. so jink though, so go watch guys and thanks again to intel for sponsoring 'extreme tech upgrade". this setup is flipping amazing.