(upbeat music begins)
- well, that didn't take long. amd's threadripper lineup revitalized the high end enthusiast desktop
space when it first dropped. and now after a few short
years, it no longer exists. that's right. amd just announced their new zen 3 based, threadripper pro chips yesterday. and they look great. but note the pro. these bad boys aren't gonna
be on store shelves near you. they're oem only. and they aren't going to be cheap. that's right. now that they're on top, it seems like amd is
resting on their laurels, just like intel did. and this announcement
demonstrates once again that amd is not your friend. you know, who is though? actually they're not your friend. they're just our sponsor. they're our friend. build redux offers competitive pricing, compared to building a pc yourself. and their website makes it
easy to configure your build alongside their helpful support guides. head to buildredux.com/linus, and start creating your pc today. ("supernova") oh, here we go. linus is ranting about
evil corporations again, but hear me out. amd's threadripper pro
5000 series cpus are a zen 3 refresh of the
threadripper pro 3000 series and come with every,
everything that zen 3 implies. higher core clocks,
better memory controllers, more cache in the eight
core ccx arrangement, and amd's shadow stack feature that protects against buffer overflows. they also come with increasingly
enterprise focused features like more memory capacity and channels, more pci express lanes,
and a bigger price tag, which is great. awesome, love it. but i have one question. where are the cheaper
non-pro threadrippers? what's that? there aren't any? well, then, what happened to socket strx4? oh, it's dead like x399
after only one generation? that is such a shame. now look, amd is a publicly traded company and that means that they're
actually legally obligated to do whatever they
can to increase profits for their shareholders. legally, like, if they didn't do it, they could be sued by their shareholders. so when faced with the prospect of using those zen 3 chiplets to power lower cost consumer or enthusiast threadripper processors, compared to jacking up the
price for threadripper pro and just not selling
consumer chips anymore, you gotta bet that they're
gonna choose threadripper pro. after all, you gotta remember who it was
that introduced the concept of a thousand dollars consumer cpu when they were on top, back in the 2000s. here's a hint. it wasn't intel? yes, they make good products. and yes, they've been an
underdog for a long time but when amd can take advantage
of their top dog position they have, and they will, just like intel. so why did they make threadripper
in the first place then? if you ask me, mindshare. the og threadrippers, the 1000 series. if you believe the story
weren't even on amd's roadmap and launching them supposedly provided amd with just another piece
of their product stack to put even more zen chips
in machines worldwide, meanwhile slapping team blue in yet another one of their
traditional strongholds, the high end desktop market. there's just one problem
with that in today's world. and that's where this conversation takes a bit of a weird turn. the high end desktop
concept for enthusiasts is, in my opinion, currently obsolete. think about it. intel hasn't released an
hedt platform since mid 2017, and they haven't released a
chip for one since late 2019, which coincidentally is around the time that the last consumer
threadripper chip was announced. so what happened? ryzen happened. the 16 core ryzen 9 3950x
also launched in late 2019. and for the first time you were able to get
truly hedt core counts, 16 freakin' cores, on a desktop platform. remember, the first gen
threadripper, the 1000 series, actually capped out at 16 cores. so ne'er we had a desktop platform now with pcie gen 4 for massive bandwidth, and dropping at a time when
late generation ddr4 modules with higher capacities, we're rolling off the production lines. so overnight both intel's x299 and amd's threadripper platforms became significantly less
appealing for most users because their major
selling points were now being cannibalized by the
consumer desktop platform. the last consumer threadripper chips that came out then in early 2020 tried to stay relevant
with up to 64 cores, 256 gigs of ram, and 88 total
pci express gen 4 lanes. but how many people
made use of all of that but then didn't need much
more memory capacity? how many prosumers were really building their own threadripper rigs
versus buying prebuilt systems with enterprise features and support? that's the question amd
apparently asked themselves. and the answer seems
to have been very few. and honestly speaking, i don't like that hedt is basically dead. i hate it, but i get it. maybe what amd is really
doing here is creating a product lineup that better reflects what their customers are actually buying. and it's kind of a smart move. as consumer platforms start rolling out with pci express gen 5, the need for additional lanes, is going to be seriously reduced. there's even talk already of reducing ssds to just two lanes once gen 5 hits the data center because the bandwidth is already there and it makes no sense to
tie up the extra lanes and the associated pins, and design complexity that come with them. and while it's not quite the same thing as quad channel memory, ddr5's double burst length with two sub channels per
module effectively means that memory transfers get
similar latency benefits. and quite frankly, at risk of
being quoted out of context, 'cause i'm all about that more power, well, 16 cores ought to be
enough for anybody, today. if you don't find that comforting, maybe pick up a swacket
from a lttstore.com, unlike threadripper they
are not discontinued. and i know that kind of
thing might upset you as an enthusiast, but think about it. what workloads need 16 cores right now? we're in the middle of a
software design paradigm shift, like when we went from
single to dual core, and dual to quad core. it took and is taking
a while for developers to figure out the best way
to utilize these extra cores. and quad core turned out to be enough as recently as five years ago, because, well, dammit,
intel said it was enough. and also, because utilizing those extra
cores really is a struggle. and going all the way to 16, even power users are having
a hard time imagining how to fully utilize them. - it's true. i've got a 12 core 3900x at home. and honestly i don't use all
those cores most of the time. if i didn't dabble with running
multiple virtual machines i'd be just as well off with an eight core or even a six core cpu, especially if all i wanted to do was game. in fact, six cores is what
i went with for my vr rig. now, sure, there's stuff
like compiling code and non gpu rendering. but the reality is, that anybody's serious enough
about coding or graphics to be looking at a threadripper would probably also be looking at a separate build or render box, so their workstation isn't unusable while the job's being done. if, say, i ran a plex instance,
a personal web server, and maybe mess around with a windows or mac os virtual machine, that'd be roughly half my dozen cores. and i'd probably be more pressured on memory and storage at that point. now, would i complain if i
had 16 cores to play with? (chuckles)
no. but i don't need them either. i don't even need what i have now. by the time i do pricing
for those extra cores, not to mention platform features like pci express gen 5 and ddr5, will have come down and it'll
all be more mature to boot. the only times i've
personally gone for like, the top end consumer processors
were the core i7 3770k, i got with intel retail edge on the cheap, and the core i7 6700k, near the tail end of the
quad-core-is-all-you-need years. so i'd have the extra
threads to work with. and that's just me
comparing my 12 cores to 16, let alone threadripper with up to 64. now you could argue that
threadripper would stay relevant for way longer than
any desktop chip would, but you'd be wrong about that. the 16 core threadripper 1950x workstation that i used to type this
script is slow as balls. and i have never once used all the cores. i desperately want more
ipc and faster memory. i'd happily trade for a 5800x or even a 5600x and some fast memory. i'm not even using more pci express lanes than a modern ryzen desktop can handle. and i'm anthony. - all of that said, the workstation experience is still there. and threadripper pro is here to stay, and makes more sense to
more customers looking for something that's in
between ryzen and epyc compared to the og threadripper. and don't worry, we will definitely be doing a deeper dive on these zen 3 behemoths. so make sure you're subscribed
so you don't miss it. for now, i don't like that they've hung threadripper
customers out to dry, and neither do you. in fact, i'd encourage
you to be angry about it because quite frankly proving
that there's still a market is the only way that amd might
listen and reverse course here. but i would also encourage
you to reassess your needs and consider whether you
might be just as well served by the coming generation of consumer cpus. it's not as glamorous, and it doesn't look as great
on your instagram feed, but it's gonna have wider support, and a lot more versatile form factors. and your wallet will
probably thank you too. just like this segue will thank me for our sponsor squarespace. if you're looking at creating and sharing your own content
online, give squarespace a try. squarespace is the all in one platform for building a top tier website and growing your brand online. you can upload or embed your
video library and organize it in one of squarespace's
best in class templates to explore the new ways that
you can monetize your content. you can both display
your social media content and push website content
out to your channels. plus with the members area you can unlock a whole new
revenue stream for your videos by posting exclusive content behind either a subscription
or a onetime fee. and squarespace's analytics
and insights ensure that you're optimizing your
website every step of the way. so head to squarespace.com/ltt
and get 10% off today. thanks for watching. if you guys enjoyed this, go check out our recent video on amd's pro series ryzen processors and their platform locking function. it's more evidence that
maybe amd doesn't always have the consumers' best interests top of mind.