(linus and colin grunt loudly) - it's time to say good... holy mother, this thing is heavy. also, we should probably turn it off. - oh, god damn it. - it's finally time to say
goodbye to desk pc gen one, and i could only think
of one appropriate way to properly send her off. (sad piano music) good night, sweet prince. (sad electronic music) yeah, that's right. after four long years desk pc gen two is on the brink of completion. all we've got to do is take all of this, and all of this, and all of this, and put it all together. no problem, it'll be fast. it's going to take a while. oh god, this is going to be tough. and it's going to be
sponsored, by ridge wallet. ridge wallet has redefined
the traditional wallet with its compact frame
and rfid blocking plates. keep your wallet bulge down and use offer code linus to save 10% and get free worldwide
shipping at the link below. (upbeat electronic music) i don't want to get this
thing broken on the floor. we didn't think of this. - no, no.
- are you gonna... - i'm just going to of walk. - okay, all right. hold on a second. how much does this cost? - a lot. don't drop it. - this build had two main goals. number one, was to make
it as thin as possible. and number two, was to
give up absolutely nothing in terms of performance. now, as you guys know, those
are kind of conflicting goals. but, the specs of this machine
are absolutely bananas. we've got a 32 core
amd threadripper 3970x. we've got 64 gigs of
ballistics max memory. it's got a zenith ii extreme motherboard, 10 gig networking and an rtx 3070, all of it's coming in at a total thickness of just under eight centimeters. one of the challenges was figuring out and haunting for our 10 gig network card. the original plan for the machine was to use the onboard networking, but because of a compatibility issue, we had to add one midway
through the project, which necessitated a redesign
of this back plate here. so, now we've got this riser, which, conveniently is, at
least, kind of nice looking, thanks to a quick blast of plasti dip. we've got our ugly green
network card blacked out, a little something like that. and then we had to get a little creative with our graphics card, putting this little
spacer block under there. if you look, the only right
angle fittings we could find that were low-profile enough, are these really cool, cool ass ones. they're just like, a
little right angle block. then were using three separate fittings, a little extension, and two fittings to go
from our pump to the gpu. now we get our first regretful moment, running the rgb for our block, no problem, see got a nice
little cable management hole. can you see it down there? it's super great. running the 12 pin power
for the gpu through it? not so great. oh my god! have we like seen if
this actually reaches? no. oh boy. okay, hold on. hold on. it might have gone in the wrong hole. it's a good thing this gpu
doesn't actually screw in in any way and just sits here. [music] she'll be coming around
the mountain when she comes [music] [music] then plug it in here [music] [music] she'll be coming around
the mountain when she comes [music] [music] i'm going to plug right in her [music] (plastic popping) (linus hoots) we might've bent this back
panel, a little bit here, but that's okay, we were kind
of planning to reimagine that, a little bit later, anyway. if every part of this build
is that nerve wracking, then we are in for a wild ride. no, i spat on it, no. - [colin] now you have to buy it. - you guys might have noticed, we've got these little 3d
printed hose holders, here. what we're going to do, is once we've got everything
actually stuck down, we're going to kind of
move it out of the way, drill a little hole and then, they're going to hold
them perfectly straight, exactly where they need to go. oh, no, i don't know if
that's a good idea, colin. actually, it's probably
a pretty good idea. (drilling sound)
oh. we found a leak, a potential leak, so we're taking a male
to male swivel-y boy, cause what this leak
needs is more o-rings. oh, one second. - oh, jeez. what, is she wet? - yeah, she's a little wet. she's a wet boy. okay. and that is it. that's all the radiator i get. i've had people telling
me that this is crazy, since the project started,
it's actually not that crazy. the fans for the radiators are over here. these are going to draw fresh
air in from under the desk. then it's just going to create
positive pressure inside, that positive pressure
has to go somewhere. and yes, we'll lose some
of it in holes like this, but, i think, most of it
will go out these radiators. we will find out. and then we just give this a little... (plastic popping)
(linus screams) not what i wanted to do. - [colin] you killed it. - nope, nobody panic. - [colin] do you need a hammer? - stop! hammer time. (linus grunts) (plastic hitting the ground)
no. oh boy! could it have been more perfect? yeah, i don't know, probably. under pressure, getting copyright striked. (linus grunts) (linus wheezes) okay, pressure test, pressure test. what you don't want to do, is turn your giant reservoir
into an air pressure bomb. i'm just going to give it a little bit. (air pumping) this looks sick. - we have a minor problem. - a leak we can't find because, it's so small, we can't even hear it. this thing is draining in
about one eighth of a bar so, we got to find that. - but have you really
listened to your pc lately? - it's such a small leak. - do we just fill it? (linus moans) - oh jeez, colin, i don't know
if that's a very good idea. - oh, we might want to put the glass on. - what, now? - cause it'll rest on this whole side. (linus chants) - we've got thingymabobbers stuck to it. - uh, huh.
- they might interfere. - nope. - you sure?
- pretty sure. - okay. okay? - uh, huh. - okay. (pressurized air blowing) dang, that is super bent. is that supposed to be there? - that gap? no, that's sag. - oh. - straight up sag. - so we need to... - we'll just put, we can
put a little block in there. - yeah. - yeah. and we'll... go ahead and make this into two pieces. (snapping sound) - it's important that the glass sits as flush on the wood as possible, because, if we don't have a seal inside, then we can't force the air from our fans to come out through the radiators. and we're not going to have any cooling. couldn't we just google how
to adjust the thingymabobber? - yeah, we can.
- okay. - but i figured we'll do that later. what could go wrong? literally... - [david] don't say that, don't say that (nail gun fired) - the nail shoots all
the way through the wood, goes into the glass, and shatters, it cuts up the tubing. - stop. - a piece of shattered glass
lodges itself in linus' spleen. he slowly bleeds out
over the coming weeks... - [colin] oh, my god. - leaving his children fatherless,
his parents childless... actually they'll be okay. they've got four other children. - why is that end not... oh, this isn't a square. i can hit it on the belt sander, and just like trim that in,
just a little so it matches. - it's fine. the goal today is get it done, not get it perfect. (linus sings) - we're plugging in the gpu. - i'm firing the laser. so, we've got these custom, eight pin cpu power connectors here. and... does this only have one of... oh, it has two it's on the other... okay. (linus grunts) i don't think we're going to make it. that's okay. we don't actually need it. we're at the point where
we need to fill it again, and we really cannot figure
out where the leak is so, i'll do it again. (mellow percussion music) do you mind killing
the light for a second? i don't hear anything. it's the rest.
- yeah. - if it blows up, i want it to be right
into my chest cavity. (both men laugh) oh, good god. can i just have some good news today? - you may notice that the
reservoir is still bulging, it's because the seal is actually good. we just didn't close the valve. - you know what? that is great news. because, that means
i'm going to be on time for juan's show, today. i got a thing we're going to need. we got to do this. here we go. ready? one, two, three. (linus grunts and screams) is it gonna hit it? oh god. - [david] what are you doing, linus? - see, we got to tip it over to fill it. - [david] you put it on
the wrong side, you dingus. - what, no, the fill ports here?
what are you talking about? this might be a three person
job, alex, do you mind? you know what? you guys seem
to have it under control. all right, see you later. - now it's a two-person job. - i'll move them. (colin moans) (linus cheers) - yeah, now might be a good time for you to figure out where
you want your up-down switch. - how about right next to... hey, this is upside down. - that was mathias' job. i'm passing that buck entirely to mathias. - i fix, i six. oh, balls, i spilled already. - why? - [david] all over your nice shirt! - how did i spill already? hey, it's from lttstore.com. it's reflective. - [colin] it was on purpose, wasn't it? - it was totally on purpose,
david knows what's up. it's leaking? you piece of shh... that is not funny, david. do you have any idea how many years this project has taken off colin's life? - at least two. - the best thing about
your employer shaving years off your life, is they're all the years that your employer won't miss, anyway. - [colin] i love feeling like i'm 35. - damn, son. okay. this is a lot water. - [colin] yeah. - [linus] it's exciting. - okay, it's plugged in. - okay, i'm hitting it. that's a drip. come on, come on, come on. where is this water coming from? - [colin] i think it's just dripping down. - okay, let's hope. - should we just fill it
and stop worrying about it? - [linus] rock on brother. (upbeat rock music) and that, my friends,
is why i hire engineers. this is shut off and it is
flowing through the radiators. it's hot, because it doesn't work without the glass. - i'm going to tip it.
- yeah. - and then we can elevate this corner now. - there we go. let's
hope it still fits on. - don't slip. - thermal expansion. (linus moans) corner. - drop it.
(linus grunts) - we didn't wire up the power button. - i don't have extensions for that today. - holy bananas, it's actually on. what are the odds this
thing is just working? - that'd be nice. wouldn't it? - the num lock is working. okay, let's... well, i really would
like it to turn on now. okay! come on, baby. - [colin] it's display port, so maybe we need to power cycle it. - oh, it's dp
- [colin] yeah. - oh, we probably need
to power cycle it, then. - go for a lift, and you undo the button? - okay. perfect. (both grunting) are you good? - yeah. - this is bigger than my
old desk too, isn't it? - yes. (linus gasps) - okay. it's up. it's up. it's up. (colin cheers) - [colin] okay. i can breathe now. - ensure to connect both the eight pin and four pin power plugs. oh, it actually really does
want that second one, okay. - [colin] we can fix that. suddenly got really hot in here. - yeah. me too. holy crap, balls. - [colin] are those are all threads? - yeah. it has a lot of threads. there's going to be time for it to... - [colin] i don't think the fan controller is even hooked up. - well, i don't know,
let's see how it does. if it's just running super quiet. we might be somewhat power limited because we only have
that single eight pin, but apparently the cpu is
94% loaded on all 32 cores. it's going, boys. - [colin] hey, you feel the heat? - they're pushing, yeah, for sure. - [colin] so the theory worked. - so far. you know, there would
have been 100 other points in this process where we
could have tested the theory of whether the cooling will
work before actually ... - [colin] yeah, a small scale... - yeah.
- [colin] yeah. - but we didn't. and we have basically leveled out here at around 70 degrees on the cpu. no matter what i throw at this thing, i cannot make it thermal throttle. both the cpu and gpu are under 80, well under, 80 degrees
at their hottest points. so this is my hottest ccd right here. it actually worked. just got some finishing
touches to put on it. and then i get to move
this into my office. you know, the funny thing is, the people this is going
to benefit the most are actually my writers who sit next to me while we review scripts, and constantly whack their knees and the insides of their thighs on the corners of that old desk. i am so happy this worked. the spec was right. i feel bad, covering it with a desk pad. i'm going to have to get
one of the skinny ones. fortunately, there's this store that has desk pads in, pretty much, any size you could possibly want. and they're all the same price. what's the store called? - [colin] ltt store. - ltt. no, it couldn't be that one because they're always out of stock. - [colin] no, they're
always out of stock, yeah. ebay? - just like this is the right time to tell you about our sponsor: squarespace lets you
create a beautiful website without the hassle. they're all-in-one platform makes it easy, and fast to get up running, and their award-winning templates can be used for any kind of project and will help your website stand out. if you ever need additional help, squarespace offers webinars. they've got a full series of help guides, or you can contact their
24/7 customer support via live chat and email. and if you already have a third
party domain, don't worry, you don't have to give it up, just transfer it over to squarespace. squarespace even includes
e-commerce features so that you can sell
much of services online and easily manage your
inventory and orders. so why wait, go to squarespace.com/ltt and get 10% off your first order. if you guys enjoyed this video, maybe check out one of our previous parts. or for a blast from the past; maybe check out the
original desk pc video. it was not as good.