- they've got chips stacked on chips. they've got low end gpu's. they've got a completely
revamped mobile platform. is there anything more
satisfying than competition? because that's what this looks like. amd ces announcements are all
responses to the competition. be it defending the crown
that they just took from intel or matching nvidia card for card. but the question remains can amd maintain their dominant position, or in 2022 are we witnessing early stage intel level desperation? one thing is certain, things
are getting very interesting. - pebble host offers dedicated servers starting from $39.99 a month with a range of systems for all use cases. use code linus for 30%
off your first month valid for the first
hundred people who use it. (upbeat techno music) - you could call what amd is doing with the ryzen 7 5800x 3d a stop gap, and you'd be right to do so. but it's a preview of what's to come. let me explain. the 5800 x 3d is mostly the same chip as 2022's ryzen 7 5800x. it's got eight cores, 16 threads, and actually slightly lower core clocks, but it's got double the cash at 64 megs thanks to amds 3d v cash technology, which they first showed
off at computex 2021. amd claims this makes it the
world's fastest gaming cpu, which is a claim we'll have
to verify for ourselves. right now, it seems more
like a proof of concept in response to intel's recent successes, more than anything else, but at the end of the day, that's what competition
looks like. isn't it? remember when intel released
the core, i9 9900 ks to compete with ryzen's first
true overtake with ryzen 3000? - and you are going to need a beefy cooler in order to get the best
performance out of it. - amd may not be as desperate
as team blue was back then, but little moves like this
are a way to stay competitive while their real response is in the oven. but why is amd only
launching one 3d v cash chip? two words, zen 4 baby? get it, cause it's two words and a number? anyway, due out in the
second half of 2022, zen 4 is amd is true next gen complete with a new socket, am5, and not much is known about what zen 4 looks like just yet. aside from that, it has a
very interesting ihs design and that it's confirmed to be manufactured on five nanometers, but we do know the new socket
will be using a land grid array like intel has for so long. and the platform will support
pci express gen five and ddr5 so, amd will be right up there
with intel just in time for ddr5 to hopefully it'd be worth buying. we're not sure whether amd is
planning to split their cpu's up into efficiency, cores, and performance cores
like intel has been doing, but chances are they're going
to bed big on 3d v cash. but as much as desktop ryzen is what everyone's excited about. mobile ryzen is receiving
a lot more updates. i'll be it with a familiar problem. on laptops, ryzen 6000 is to be zen 3+ zen 3 with 50 new and enhanced power management features added onto it. amd, please name desktop
zen for ryzen 7000. don't make the ryzen 3000 mistake again, and buy a water bottle
of milk td store.com. it doesn't matter what size,
you just make weird decisions when you're dehydrated. ryzen 6000 mobile, shouldn't be defined by potential
naming conflicts though. the integrated graphics has
been updated from radeon vega to rdna 2 compute units
that are, according to amd, double the performance
of ryzen 5000 mobile, and even nvidia's mx450 supposedly
falls behind the new apu. i can believe that. the xbox series s runs 20 rdna
2 compute units after all, and from what amd has shown
1080p low on aaa titles runs around 40 fps average on
thin and light notebooks, but it's not just about performance. if you recall, vega wasn't exactly a power efficient architecture, and amd is claiming 30%
lower power consumption for video conferencing and a whopping 40% improvement
in streaming netflix. that equates to what amd
claims is a three hour battery life improvement for up to 24 hours. couple that with ddr5 htmi 2.1 usb4, and even microsoft's
pluton security silicon. and you've got basically
everything you'd want in a modern laptop, at least on paper. we'll see, starting in february, also launching in february,
are gaming laptops with new radeon dedicated mobile gpu's. the new rx 6000s series
tuned for power efficiency and an updated rx 6000m
lineup running with higher clock speeds and faster memory for what amd is claiming
a 14% or so performance improvement on average, look for the fifties in
the mid range and high end and look for the rx 6500m
and 6300m on the low end. the latter of which is supposedly twice as fast as nvidia's g-force mx 450. that's not too surprising
considering the rdna 2 apus are already supposed to be
as fast or faster than those, so there you go. nvidia is on notice. it's not the gps themselves
that are super exciting though. it's how they integrate with amd's updated advantage platform, which now stipulates
the new radeon graphics, ryzen 6000 processors and freesync premium with 144 hertz or faster full hd and 120 hertz or faster
qhd in 4k displays. so the refresh gps will be connected to some quality hardware, not only that, but there's new smart
technologies in the mix to. smartshift max, which is basically
just version two of amd's dynamic power balancing feature for ryzen and radeon mobile chips
now works in more games, and thanks to tweaks to it's, algorithm, amd claims that provides
better results in the games that it already did work with. they say it's about twice
as efficient as the original version, which isn't bad for a 2.0, they've paired this with what they're calling smartshift eco, which effectively forces
games to run on the rdna 2 apu instead of the dedicated graphics if the ac adapter is unplugged. you can turn this on or off yourself, but this streamlines the
process of making sure that your power settings are enforced. when you launch a game on
battery to improve endurance. the final new smart technology
is smart access graphics. as we know, by now, a mux chip on a gaming laptop is a must for best performance. it switches the display
between the integrated graphics and dedicated graphics, so they don't have to
work through each other, which improves performance
and responsiveness in gaming by up to around 15%. and when you're not gaming, connecting directly to
the integrated graphics improves power efficiency. saying then is basically an easy marketing way to say that the laptops
got one of these chips automatically routing the display signal, which is great because nobody
else is doing that right now. some of the first laptops out
of the new advantage program with all of these new features
will be alienware m17 r5 and the rog zephyrus g14, the latter of which now features a webcam. and i believe we have a
hands-on coming later this week. so make sure you get subscribed
so you don't miss it. the final noteworthy announcement
is amd's next entry-level gpu, the rx 6500 xt. it's got a spicy 2.6 gigahertz
game clock and a modest 16 compute units and 16
megs of infinity cash. so you can expect 1080p medium or high depending on the game. and whether you want to
use amd's fidelity effect, super resolution scaling algorithm, which by the way, will soon have a universal
toggle in the driver in the form of radeon super resolution. amd claims about 20 to
60% more performance compared to the gtx 1650, and they say they're targeting people with multi-generational old gpu's. emphasizing that it's priced aggressively and being manufactured in high volumes. we will see... the release date is two weeks away on january 19th with a suggested
e-tailer price of $199, which assuming you can actually
buy one, might actually be low enough to persuade many
desperate gamers at this point. that about wraps it up
for amd ces announcements. i don't know about you, but i cannot wait to get
my hands on the 5800x 3d, and then zen 4 later this year. anything you're excited for? any bets on intel's
response, and pat gelsinger? sure won't take this line down. (neck cracks) - this video is brought
to you by manscaped. manscaped provides an
all-in-one grooming kit that has you covered from head to toe. their performance package
4.0 features their lawnmower 4.0 waterproof body tremor, their weed wacker ear and nose trimmer, plus a whole bunch of other goodies. for a limited time, you get all
of this plus two free gifts: the shed travel bag and manscapes
anti chafing boxer briefs, visit manscaped.com/tech, or click the link down below
for 20% off and free shipping. - thanks for watching guys.
go check out our video on amd basically selling broken ps5's. so a little more strange
behavior from team red. it makes more sense than you think.