- ... pc currently - (groans) no - ew. (jake laughs) there are no words. i don't know exactly what it is about the linus tech tips audience. maybe y'all are just my people, but you guys have some
of the most, how we say, unique setups that i
could possibly imagine. and today we're going to
be roasting the worst, praising the best, and we'll do something with
the really weird ones. and it's going to be
brought to you by hetzner. thanks to hetzner online for
sponsoring today's video. they're currently offering free setup fees for dedicated root servers
running nvme drives and amd ryzen zen 2
cpus, for a limited time. check it out at the link below. [upbeat music] - are you ready to start? - oh my god, i already know
what i'm about to look at. this is the weirdest (beep). - oh, you looked at this one already? - i, i only saw this one because look, street guru tagged my personal. so i go through my
personal mentions sometimes and i looked at this and i was like, "what?" (laughs) - i'm just confused. - i thought it was a triple vertical setup for like sim racing or something, but then there's clearly
no racing wheel anywhere, and obviously no room for one. and then i was, and then
i was sort of at a loss. - well, it's a shed, he
said it's a shed, right? - yeah, wait a second,
this is the gaming rig? - is that an itx board? - is it taped to the wall? wait, is this, what is this bra- - there's extruded aluminum
there, it looks like, or maybe it's 3d-printed extrusion. so i think he changed up
the setup to have a futon? - oh god. - oh, hey,
- oh god, oh god. - they're just tissues, wait,
what's that on the ground? there you go, that's it right there. - what? - that bottle? you see the squirt bottle? - oh no! - (laughing) yeah, there it is, baby. this is, this is number one. this is the first one. - [linus] is this a
pewdiepie-themed setup? - [jake] looks like it. - now, i get it, you watch
pewdiepie or whatever, but- - he's got the chair? - oh my god, is that a milk crate
- no, it's, - as a foot rest? - i think it's like an
old coke crate, actually. - i actually love it. - that looks painful. - no, no, dog, maybe they're, maybe they're a shoes
indoor kind of person. - look, he's even... - and then look at this
disgusting brown carpet, what difference would it make? - it's like zebra carpet. - yeah it's... oh my god. it's not to be pewdiepie themed, is it? - (laughs) i didn't even think about that. look even the keyboard, like the key caps are pewdiepie. - oh my god, even this controller. - pewdiepie. - pewdiepie. uhhhh... - [jake] what is? - [linus] schritte international? - [jake] i think he said
he's learning german. - [linus] okay, that's pretty cool. got the ti-84 plus, looks like? - yup.
- okay, rocking it. - what is that? - does that say posture cheat? posture check? - i think it's posture check.
- posture check? - but what is that, what is that arm? like what is it sitting on? it's almost like there's
a piece of cardboard or something behind... - this is a very taran solution. it's clearly just propped up on something
- it's like a ruler. - for a combination of cooling
and/or posture amelioration. - what the (beep.) - what am i looking at? - jaeger, it's a lot of jaeger. - (laughs) oh, wow. wear it loud and proud, right? - like (sighs) i just, i
have so many questions. oh, he's got his badges, too, that's cool. - this is cool, i'm into
the whole badge collection, i wish i had kept all my badges,
that's one of my regrets. - i've been keeping my pax ones. oh, the googly eyes, did
you see the googly eyes? - very nice. i love the desktop background, though. obviously trying to score
some brownie points there, but i'll accept it. oh god, how do we unpack this? we've got a, what looks like a ps4 pro. - the monitor on a box. - i don't understand the chalkboard. i understand maybe
owning one is a novelty, but why does it need to
be right next to your bed? - can be using, like, i mean, there is that reference book there, maybe he's doing schoolwork. - on a chalkboard? okay, well here's another view. - [jake] did they just move or something? - there's, like, drums on the floor. i just looked at the pic
and realized where the shelf i'm missing off my desk went. - what desk? - what are you talking about? moving on. okay, mrhgbf. that is a car. - click the next one. - oh my god, what car is this? this is the trippiest
looking thing i've ever seen. - i've seen these before,
i don't know what it is. - oh my god, it has a computer in it. why? - [jake] i don't know,
but there's no interior in the car, or what? - what is this, is this
like a router or something? - [jake] it looks like
a modem or something. - kinda looks like a router, modem. we've got the headset here. we got, like the seatbelts are still here. you gotta, you gotta strap in. "took these two years ago for a contest. it worked but was not comfortable." well, maybe it'd be a
little more comfortable if the chair was facing
the keyboard, smart guy, you got an arm rest right in... - what i'm wondering here
is, look at the specs. it's only a 5900x and a 3090. i use it to connect to my servers. - you know what? we don't know exactly
what kind of development, maybe it's some kind of
machine learning development. they actually have a need for... - no, no, no, hold on, read it. he's saying, "this is my thin client." - "i'm a software engineer,
but it's only a ryzen 9 5900x." is this just some hardcore
humble brag (beep) right here? like, i don't know, i don't understand what i'm reading right now. - [jake] this is faster than my computer. - [david] it's for sure a flex. - it's gotta be. - are we getting baited? - and look, if you're gonna
flex your cable management, you're going to have to step
up your game a little bit. it's okay, it's okay. - [david] oh, stop. - jamie mcinnis. wow. now that, that's a setup. i'm liking it. what is this, whatever this glowing thing, - it's a goxlr.
- oh, it's a goxlr. yeah, i love that thing. i leave mine on the default color scheme, i forgot it's even rgb,
to be honest with you. - [jake] i'm wondering what
that mason jar of black gunk is. - got a lot of, wow, there's
a lot of bottles of things. let's look for the tissues. (jake laughs) oh, nice, got the racing pedals. - [jake] got the bad cable management. - well, but as soon as you
add a racing sim to anything, i kind of excuse it. - [jake] that tube is terrible. - this is int... oh my, oh, wow. - look at the one, it's so
much shorter, on the bottom. come on. i get that they're not
supposed to be straight, but the one on the bottom
is like a good centimeter, maybe two centimeters shorter, coming out. - you heard it here first, kids. good soft line water cooling looks better than bad hard line water
cooling, this is the proof. "got this rig during the
great graphics card shortage." 1060 6 gig, what a baller,
got a lot of money for a gpu. i love the, i love the monitor stand. just start piling paper. you know, that's the thing about paper. it's basically infinitely adjustable. you know, slightly too low? add one more sheet of paper. - one sheet? - well, that's what i'm saying, right? - add like 20 sheets at a time. why didn't you take the keyboard tray off? - i swear, i have owned
this piece of furniture at some stage in my life. this has gotta be like ikea or something. - i just like that keyboard tray, it's a beige keyboard tray. that keyboard tray's gotta
be like 20 years old. - is that a second keyboard? - might be 30 years old. - oh no, you're using your
desktop surface as a mouse pad? you can tell, you can
see it's all worn away. no, grab one of your pieces of paper. or, i mean, or that, that's good too. - ltt.com.
- lttstore.com, we got you taken care of. - or paper. - oh wow, this monitor though. - what about the computer? - wonderful, five by
four aspect ratio here. - it's a packard bell. - packard bell computer. oh boy. - oh, god. - that's wonderful. this is clearly the secondary,
got the rag handy, machine. i don't think this is a daily driver. emulation box. - no, i don't think so. look, read the description, i
think he's docking a switch. - oh. i mean, at the point where
you buy a third party dock for the switch, and then an hdmi to vga adapter, wouldn't you be better
off going on craigslist or facebook marketplace and
just getting a better monitor that has hdmi in? okay, this is one of those setups that i always find kind of confusing. it's very vertical. - yeah.
- you know? like, are you ever going to...right? yeah, yes, it's like that. oh, how could you include this? - what? - it's one thing, if they've
got the lotion and the tissues. it's another thing when the used one is still sitting on the (beep) desk. (jake laughs) oh, okay. hey, good taste in headphones, i think those are 600s? what is this light
doing, is this diffusion? - i think the paper or
tissue is diffusion, yeah. - yeah, okay, that makes sense. - but it's also bouncing off
of like a black fabric, so... - razer gruh one z gaming. all right. - (laughing) oh no. - okay, wait though, wait though. - it's a ups. - [linus] okay, so, credit to
raz grr gaming, or whatever. nothing on the floor. - [jake] aside from
the stuff on the floor. - yeah, but that's understandable. that's understandable there, it's managed, it's taped down. - you could... it's not taped down, it's just like, in a thing. you could have brought
it up on the molding there pretty easily.
- i'm giving it a b minus. - a b minus? - cause you're not
going to accidentally... - are you (beep) kidding me? - it's functional, jake, it's functional. - aside from the part
that's not functional. what are you smoking? - it's high functioning. - this is a d, at best. - no.
- yeah. - no.
- yes. - you're so wrong, it's up on the wall, at least
- are you kidding me? look at it! - [linus] it would be nearly impossible to accidentally unplug something
by like pushing your... - that's your only metric? - well, that's the
metric for functionality. it doesn't look good, it looks awful. - except when you're moving
your foot around on the ground, and kicking cables constantly,
or you knock your ups off. - they're taped, dog, they're taped. no, they're good, they're good enough. they're good enough for functionality. - (sighs) it looks terrible. - [linus] i like the teal
and pink, it looks sick. i like the desktop wallpaper. - [jake] i like the easy access alcohol. - [linus] (laughs) yeah,
that's very easy access. - oh, no, more of this
functional cable management. - wait, what, hold on,
which one, which one? - go, oh why? - okay.
- why? - okay, no, that's pretty awful. this, if you're going
to have the j channel or the cable management cover, put it behind the furniture, dog. - yeah, yes. what's with the towel? you just don't want to
scratch your optiplex? - yeah, your dell. i mean, to be clear, hey, nothing wrong with rocking one of these as a gaming pc, we did a video a little while
back converting one of these to a sick gaming pc on a budget. you don't need the towel. you know what? as a low budget setup,
this is really practical. i actually like this one. - yeah. oh god. a 1030, it's passive. - it is passive. - the hard drive's got one
screw in it, i like that. - got it done, a little bit
of dusting might be in order. - (hisses) zebronics. - what is zebronics? i have... it's not often i come across
a motherboard manufacturer that i have never heard of. zebronics is still a thing? these guys are still around. - [jake] it's got a zebronics
power supply, too, apparently. - did you just send me an imac? - (laughs) it's the new imac. - max, did you just, did
you just send me an imac? - he's got a galaxy watch 4, too, nice. - and what's this blanket, is this a bed? - it could be a bed, don't judge, except the fact that this whole video is supposed to be us judging. - pc currently on... - (groans) no. - ew, what the hell is this on the wall? - no, not what the hell, what the (beep) is on the wall. - actually what the (beep)
is probably more appropriate. - ugh, wait, "p.s. i'm
aware of how dirty the floor of the pc is, i'm cleaning
it every two weeks." - no, you are not. your lie just got called the (beep) out because you had... - okay, i've lived in a
house with multiple animals and i understand the accumulation
of dust and fur and shit, but if you clean that
once every six months, it still wouldn't look as bad as this. and clean the glass, ugh. - yeah, like, why would
you have this much grease? - i think it's like his
computer is his foot rest. - is it bare feet?
- oh, yeah. - like, is this bare foot grease? - raw dog grease. - all right, bob is an osu junkie. - oh, no, look! (laughs) - there are no words. there are no words. - [jake] you know what he said? "the socks were supposed to hide my terrible cable management." - bull (beep).
- my (beep). - bull (beep). david, the entire bottom of
this desk is full of socks. - [david] why? - oh, you know why. - [david] i don't want to. - mount the power bar to the
bottom of your desk, damn it. - and get a laundry
hamper for those socks. "better than no rgb,
despite it's a laptop." sorry, what? - is it like a cintiq or something? okay, are you watching a
video or are you drawing? - i mean, if the display on
my laptop looked like that, i'm probably doing both on this. that's cool, got the
folding desk, very portable. got the wrist grease.
- oh, no. - got the wrist grease built up over time. it's time to wipe down your
table, otherwise, nice set up. - it's like brown. oh, god. - [linus] "i just bought
my tower in october, 2020 and used some of the old
pc peripherals," okay. - bluetooth speaker. - got the roll here. - mm. - actually, that looks like paper. - it could be like labels? - receipt paper, something. - oh god. - why is there a big rock on top of this? - that's your question? look at the front of it, what's going on? - well, i mean, that i get. you just want better ventilation, so you just rip off the front panel. - he had one fan filter chilling. - yeah, you might as well, right? i'd have put it on the bottom. why have an external hard drive, when you can just have an
internal hard drive externally. all right, my place holder, my placeholder ergo chair.
- what is that? - is that foam or a piece of wood? - i think it's foam. - why wouldn't you cut the foam? - why wouldn't you just cut it? so wait, that's your lumbar support? - oh yeah. (linus laughs) oh, why don't you start with
that one, you gotta start, go back, go back.
- did you design your own case, bruh?
- go back. you can't start with that one. oh, god, that's not the same thing. - that is some expectations versus reality (beep) right there. - he said he made the box
that it's in right now, it's an mdf box, he's
just making a new one. oh, this is the old one,
it's cute, actually. - okay, all right. - it looks pretty like... - you know, the inside's a
lot better than the outside. - it looks structurally, mostly sound. - yeah. - tried to do some cable, hey. - oh, whoa. - ltt water bottle, lttstore.com. - no, screw that, look the
keyboard, is it wrapped? - oh, that's pretty cool. - it's like dbrand. - like a very similar style, too. - maybe it is the same? no, it's not, i don't think
it is, maybe... no, it is. look the pyramids. what's the bucket doing under the table? there's just a five gallon bucket. - what the hell is the bucket doing there? - no. - a five gallon bucket of lube? - that's not what i'm saying. - oh, what do you think it is? - what do you put under your desk? what's the real gamer need? pee bucket. - a pee buc... it's not
a pee bucket, shut up. - it's even got like a quick access port. i just want to know what's
in the bucket, tweet at me, what's in that bucket. - all right. this looks awesome, this looks so clean, that it almost has to be a render. - you... okay, you went
through this much effort to make it look this clean, the cable. - but then you left this cable here. - what would you rate
this cable management? - oh man. - you gonna give it a b plus? - no, no, it's un-rateable,
it's un-rateable because it's, (sighs) it had so much potential. - you gotta give it, give it a score. - they ruined it.
- give it a score, do it. - it's an a minus minus minus. - (beep) you. - it's an a minus minus
minus, that's what it is. - [jake] (laughs) the bud light. - the bud light. oh, you know what, you know what? i'm giving this one an a. - why? - because that is
definitely a cereal bowl. i'm a cereal man, i'm a cereal man, i'm a cereal gamer, okay? i love it. - [jake] wait, is that cpu in there? - "on the bottom, you see the computer powered by an fx-4100." you have a ryzen 5900x sitting on your desk in a box, and you're still daily driving an fx-4100. - how? - do you have money to burn? or do you not have money to burn? - he said he won it through the verified actual gamer program. - yeah, but that means they paid.
- still paid for it. - you gotta get on that,
you gotta get on that before it drops in value anymore. - [jake] sell it. - 'cause you don't even
need a 5900x for gaming, go get like, go get a 2600x or something. a genuine "ain't much,
but mine," you know what? i like it, i like it. - i like the chair. no, no ergonomic adjustments on this one. - no pretension in this build whatsoever, it's a budget build. it doesn't pretend to be
anything else, you got the, - he hid it. - you hid the power bar. see, how hard was that, everyone else? - this is functional, i will let you say that this is functional. - this is functional. - [jake] the other one was not functional. - this is fine, i like it. - i like it, too. - and i like that this video is now over, and i can tell you about
our sponsor, got 'em. the drop o2 and grace design s-dac and amp combo is the complete
desktop audio solution for the everyday audiophile. it features drop's
objective 2 solid state amp alongside the drop x
grace design standard dac, a collaboration with a company long known for its incredibly accurate,
transparent studio gear. the result is an all-in-one
unit that measures great and works with a variety
of headphone impedances. it can process file types
up to 24-bit, 96 kilohertz with no harshness or edge
and runs off of usb power, with no need for drivers
or any special software to get started. so don't wait, click the link
below and get yours today. and while you're looking at links below, check out our previous
roasting your setups video, 'cause it was also pretty great. - yeah, and let us know if you guys think we should do more of these. - yeah. - i think we should, this is always fun.