- picture a game pad. you know, kind of wide, two
handles, two thumb sticks, some face buttons, a d-pad,
and some shoulder buttons too. that's basically every controller
ever at this point, right? but what if i told you that not only did some foresee this future over 20 years ago, we hit a lot of wacky potholes on the road to modern perfection. so come along and learn about some of gaming's most
interesting controllers. some look normal. others, not so much. it's normal to stick around through the sponsor spots like
these though, for ifixit. from iphones, to nintendo switches, ifixit has your repair needs covered with their lineup of fix kits. find out how ifixit can help you repair your devices at the end of this video. (upbeat electronic music) there's no shortage of
fodder for a video like this. so for today, we'll be ignoring intentionally weird controllers like chainsaws, katanas,
and hip hop logos. and instead we're gonna be sticking with some more technically and historically interesting specimens, starting with the most historically interesting of the bunch. (funky electronic music) this absolute unit is called the xe-1 ap, developed by dempa micomsoft in 1989 for the sega mega drive and
msx compatible home computers. they're still around, by the way. one of their most famous products was actually the framemeister, which has sadly been discontinued. the xe-1 ap notably served as the inspiration for sega's 3d
control pad for saturn, which in turn, was made into
the dreamcast controller, which inspired the
original xbox controller. don't believe me? check out these concept sketches from xbox co-creator seamus blackley. that's right, you can trace
the modern xbox controller all the way back to this thing. but, it's substantially
bigger than even the duke. so, how the heck do you
even hold this thing? what works best for me is index and middle fingers
on the shoulder buttons, thumbs on the sticks, and ring and pinky
fingers holding the grips. it's not the most ergonomic
setup in the world, but considering this had
never been done before, it's not bad. that's right. not only was this the first
use of an analog thumb stick as we know them today on a controller, it was the first use of
shoulder buttons and grips, too. predating the super nintendo by a year, the n64 by six years, and
the dualshock by eight years. now, true 3d games weren't a thing on the msx or mega drive in 1989, but sega's 3d-like arcade
games used analog controls, and home consoles didn't
have analog controls. so dempa made their own. the way the stick functions
is shockingly simple. on the inside, the stem slips
into two split half rings that overlap each other and connect the two potentiometers
representing each axis. all that moving the joystick actually does is turn those potentiometers. the right stick only has one axis that serves as a throttle in most cases. and if you wanna use it in
a different orientation, or even inverted, you
can do that by simply (right stick clicking)
twisting it. neat! (right stick clicking) the controller itself
has six face buttons, four switches, and four shoulder buttons. if you're keeping track at home, sega pads at the time had four buttons, and later seven buttons
was the best you got. the two face buttons on the right share the a and b buttons with the shoulder
buttons on the same side, and the buttons on the left
shoulder handle c and d. now, d isn't a normal button
on the sega genesis controller. and while it shows up in the options menu, it doesn't actually do
anything that i can tell. the rest, i think, are for the msx. a handful of mega drive
games did support it, but because it didn't get
released outside of japan, and the mega drive was well behind both nintendo and nec there, it didn't gain widespread support. (whooshing) unlike orders from lttstore.com. we got your back. while dempa stuck to japan, advanced gravis computer technology, founded right here in british columbia, was far more prolific in the west, specifically in the pc peripheral space with the gravis gamepad being the quintessential pc
controller of its time. so much so, that it was
available for the phillips cd-i, for better or worse. but the snes-like game pad, while historically
significant and interesting with its flippable controls, isn't as interesting as the
playstation-like gamepad pro. while it was available in usb, the white game port version was special in what it did with a far
more limited interface. i mean, look at it. 10 buttons. that alone is weird. because the old pc game
port can only support up to four axes and four buttons at best. half that at worst. how does it do it? using what they called grip, or g-r-i-p. which, as french blogger
pulkomandy discovered is a 5 bit i squared c style interface using the first and second buttons for clock and data transfer. this means that not only does it only need up to 11 of the 15 pins on the port, it can theoretically
support up to 11 buttons. 15, if you include the d-pad. and it can support
multiple game pads at once. yeah, this was a big deal back in the day. because of the way game ports worked, two controllers via a y splitter would be limited to two buttons each. but with grip, the second controller uses the buttons that
would normally be used for the second controller for an additional serial connection. gravis even made a four controller
hub using this technique, with each controller having eight buttons. get subscribed by the way, because we're going to look at a keyboard that has this kind of plugin approach to peripherals for it that
you're not gonna wanna miss. if you're wondering why i care about all this game port nonsense, it's because the usb just didn't catch on for game controllers in the early days. because, well, you didn't
have all that many ports. i mean, maybe you had
two for your whole pc. microsoft sidewinder force feedback pro, probably the best joystick of its time, only supported the game port. and it also had a special
mechanism created by creative labs to use the midi capabilities
of the game port for bidirectional communication, rather than the traditional
joystick protocol. it's that bidirectional communication that made force feedback possible, something microsoft was pushing
pretty hard at the time. unlike nintendo's
contemporary rumble pack, which had a vibrating motor, like we're all familiar
with in modern controllers, the force feedback pro had directionality and texture to its impulses, actually shaking the stick in
response to in-game action. while the game port was seriously old by the time microsoft finally
retired it with windows vista, the effort that went into extending and improving it with features like this isn't talked about too often nowadays. but they were vital in cultivating pc gaming around this time, and led to big features
we'd see come back later. speaking of which, a friend
of mine from junior high actually owned a freestyle pro, a boomerang-shaped monstrosity
that had a terrible d-pad, but an extremely interesting
analog control, motion. wikipedia describes it
as similar to the sixaxis controls found on ps3 and
later sony controllers. and i'd say that's about accurate. it was difficult to get
used to back in the day. but it gave the controller
a lot more utility than it'd have without it. and likely planted some seeds in future sony engineers' minds. it straddled the line
between usb and gameport, and it was one of the many
controllers of its time that hedged its bets by including a gameport to usb adapter in the box. microsoft had a lot of other wacky ideas in the pre-xbox years, but
few others truly caught on. let's come back to the sega
days for our final controller. you ever get fatigued when playing games? you know, cramps, blisters, numb thumb? well, the turbo touch 360 from triax is here to save the day. this was available on the
nes, genesis, and super nes, and did away with gunpei yokoi's historic invention entirely, replacing it with this thing. "no need to push," they say. this technology breakthrough
in video game control uses a capacitive touch sensor instead. otherwise, it's pretty much
a standard genesis controller with nuclear yellow 90s
styling and turbo switches. clearly triax was confident
in this technology though, with their "higher scores or
your money back" guarantee as seen on tv style marketing. so, hey, maybe it's better than i let on. (whooshing) so compared to a regular controller, this gives you way finer control. like i can adjust the
throttle any way i want, i can go pretty much wherever i want immediately on the screen. whereas before, with a controller, doing that kind of stuff,
like holding right here, would actually be kind of difficult. the thumb stick is really tall actually, so that makes it a little bit awkward. aside from all the other
things that make it awkward. but, can't argue with
the results, it works. like that's pretty good
first three stages, i think. but yeah, holding it for extended
periods of time like this, or at least holding it up like this, probably not the best idea. it's not ergonomically sound and it is pretty, pretty heavy. but yeah, i kind of feel like i'm just moving a mouse and clicking on stuff. this is ridiculously easy compared to using a game pad with a regular d-pad. all right, let's switch to
the other controller then. let's start with a turbo touch. see how this compares to the xe-1 ap. okay. oh. oh no. uh. (light chuckle) i, yeah, this doesn't feel like i have any control at all, actually. i touch it and it's (uncertain groaning). i mean the controller works. i think my thumb is just too fat. it's like triggering multiple directions. but hey, at least i didn't die
for the first three stages. significantly worse score. that's a thing. yeah, like i basically
never get an opportunity to lock on and fire anything, because i'm not actually
able to point at anything. yeah, i think there is something where i'm gonna probably
have to open this up and tweak those potentiometers. ugh. and if you rest your
thumb on it, it's like, okay, it kind of works. but like now i'm constantly
actuating something, so, i can't sweep my thumb
in the kind of directions that they say you can. like, circular motions are easier now. that doesn't feel like it's a thing. i don't know. (whooshing) it was not better than i let on. but hey, that's not to say that the technology is bad, necessarily. we're seeing its descendants
make its way into controllers, like the dualsense, and
steam's upcoming steam deck. so the idea was sound, it just, it's not good for this purpose. if you open it up, you can see
the metal capacitive plates that you're actually interacting
with under the d-pad, as well as potentiometers you can tweak to adjust their sensitivity if need be. it's a pretty complicated pcb compared to most controllers of the time, but unfortunately, that
didn't save it from bombing. it's conceivable you
could get faster input if you got used to it, but at $15 more than a
first party controller, it was a steep ask to
give up tactile feedback in the name of faster actuation. come to think of it,
gaming keyboards have been doing that for a while now, too. i mean, maybe they were just
too ahead of their time. there's far more controllers like these than we have time to
talk about in one video. like this jet fighter controller. and not all weird
controllers are from the 90s. i just happen to own a few of them. let us know what you think
are the weirdest controllers, and maybe i can convince linus to do another video like this one. but i don't need to convince him to let me do a sponsor segue of ifixit. thanks to ifixit for
sponsoring today's video. ifixit makes it affordable
to fix or upgrade your devices using their custom fix kits. the nintendo switch has an all-in-one kit to fix joy-con drift for only $19.99 us. they also have iphone screen replacement kits from $74.99 us. all the kits come with all the parts you'll need to do your repairs. they include their precision bits, opening tools, and suction cups to make the installation
as easy as possible. and you get repair guides by ifixit with clear photos and instructions to prevent getting lost when
getting deep into the repair. check out our link to ifixit
down in the description to buy your kit today. thanks for watching guys. this was a different kind of video, so i don't really have a related
video for you to look at. you know what, all of these should work in linux with adapters. so go check out my "how
to install linux" video because it's getting way more relevant as the steam deck gets closer to release.