- this 120 inch projection setup for the lounge is going
to be freaking awesome. oh no i'm going to fall - like the mount separates from - i'm beginning to think this
may have been a big mistake. this video is brought
to you by antlion audio. antlion's modmic wireless
microphone delivers the best in class audio quality, 12 plus hours of battery life, and it magnetically mounts
to almost any headphones. get 15% off modmic wireless
and other modmic products at the link below. (soft music) (upbeat music) - back in our old lounge
setup, we had a super nice 120 inch elunevision
tab-tension screen. one of the nice things about that screen was that it was 4k capable. that is to say that the
finish on it was fine enough that you could actually
resolve those pixels. we were good to just reuse the same one but elunevision reaches
out and they go "nah nah" you want the new 8k evo reference screen. so what does that even mean? - [jake] i don't know. - let's flip it open. - [jake] oh i don't know if we were suppose to open it that way. - no, i think probably not. that's a new one. it's got an allen key in
it, but it's not bent. now, if you're a regular viewer, you probably saw our recent
video on the fancy pants, epson epiqvision laser
projection tv set up, but there's a couple of reasons it doesn't quite work for our setup. and the biggest one is right over here. our $30,000 lg signature z-10 oled. that is what we're going
to want to game on. the projector screen comes down in front of the tv as a large format display for movies or gaming with a big group. once we've all got our vaccinations, ps get your vaccination. bill gates told me to tell you. man these are some chungus brackets. - so one thing to consider with this screen is we have 24 inches of black drop that's on
the top of the screen. so 59 inches, i think it could
probably be like right there. - [linus] we're going to have
so many holes in this wall. - once we figure out whatever
height we want the screen at you can twist a little knob and that sets the like lowest it'll go. so when you click open all the
way it stops at that point. - oh, it's pretty heavy jake. - [jake] you think we should just put it in with drywall anchors? - what? - if you watched our epiqvision video you'll probably remember. we couldn't find a stud. the stud finder said,
oh, there's a stud here. oh, there's a stud here. there is where the actual study is. this'll find the perfect
spot in the middle. - yeah. so is this right?
it just hangs, off of these. - you can mount it directly to the wall. you can mount it directly to the ceiling. if you have like brick, let's
just measure how far this is. so it's nine feet. - [linus] okay. - so maybe let's do eight feet. that way we have some wiggle room. all right, let's do it here. - [linus] okay. - so we got to mark center somehow. - no - three inches seem fine enough? - yeah. - [jake] linus is use to three inches. what are you trying to do? - [linus] i'm just finding studs. oh ow can you get this off me? - [jake] i quit. i haven't even told you
the interesting part yet. the problem with steel stud,
if we're mounting heavy screen you can't just like put a
deck screw into it, right? so what do you do? - oh, you got to get those
stupid flange things to go oh no. - and the problem is, steel
stud is also not very wide. so you got to hit it right on the spot. you excited - no the toggle anchor works is you
actually twist it like this put the whole thing through the hole. then you can kinda reinsert, see that you can adjust it. so it's vertical. so it aligns with your stud. you pull this little
plastic tab in it kind of zips and you see
the zip tie teeth there and then it holds it in
close to the drywall. so you're actually screwing
into this pre threaded hole. that's a, that's a strong material here. super cool. - it looks very weird hey - stand on a chair you say, you know, this is a rolling chair, right? are you trying to kill me? - [jake] you weight like
110 pounds it's fine. - sorry. i've never actually used this. - [jake] there's a button
on that side. yeah. you gotta go this way
like the smallest amount. - [linus] how about now? - [jake] oh. oh. oh - [linus] how about now? - oh boy - [linus] how about now? - are you drunk? - [linus] i can't see it. how about now? i am barely even touching it. okay. how about you? - about the same, but you're
on the other side now. - [linus] what? - how much do you trust me? - [linus] i mean, you did put extra holes in the wall last time. - [jake] you're not wrong. oh, that's a stud baby. ha ha, i can see it. - [linus] okay - there we go. yeah. we're definitely in the middle of the stud cause i can't turn it at all. - [linus] nice - first try. - so you were saying you wanted
this to be more challenging and we should throw stuff at you right? how about this tv pillow
from lttstore.com? - moment of truth oh, oh,
look at that. it's mint - now for the projector itself. we reached out to epson. this is the epson 6050ub. if we put it next to the
dinky little thing we had in the lounge before, you
could probably fit four of them inside this, it could eat them. and a huge part of why this
thing is so big is the lens. it is a proper motorized
unit with a huge range of lens shift, which
allows the lens to actually shift the projected image around to accommodate a wider
range of mounting options. you want your projector
to be mounted right in line with the center of
your screen, which in our case that would require the
projector to hang like five six feet down from the
ceiling, which would suck because you could easily
hit your head on it. when you're walking around. to combat this, most people end up mounting their projector
up high, tilting it down to line up with where they
want their screen to be. and then using keystone
to fix the weird angle and make the edges perpendicular. it's not ideal because
keystoning is done digitally which means their image will
no longer be native resolution which can hurt sharpness. and if you're going to spend the money on a 4k projector 4k or 8k resolution screen, the last thing you want to do
is go and add keystone to it. but with proper lens shift we can have the projector
just a few feet down from the ceiling and then
shift the whole image without distorting it to
line up with our screen. now this guy's rated for 2,600 lumens with both
color and white output but many reviewers say they
saw an excessive 3000 lumens in the brighter modes, which is sweet. another thing that's cool is
even though it's 4k enhanced which means the actual
projection chip is 1080p but then it shifts over a pixel
at twice the refresh rate. it's not dlp like our old projector was. so instead this one uses
epson's own 3lcd technology which is a prison to split
the lamp or the led light into r g and b, which is then passed
through three distinct lcd panels to show the image
in each given color. and then those are all
combined and projected through the lens. that means no rainbow effect and typically better power efficiency. we've got an' gigabit. hdmi 2.0, we've got serial control lan vga because we've got a usb power
port here that we can use to power our active hdmi cable. and the last note where
everything to talk about is mounting. this was a pre loved media sample. so unfortunately it didn't
come with a mounting plate. fortunately, we have a jake
and a colin and a pretty sick shop, and we were able
to whip up a quick design and route out our own
aluminum mounting adaptor. then we just need to attach that to our benq extendable ceiling mount and boom, put the projector on it. - [jake] that's super upside down. - whatever doesn't matter we just need to make sure
we get the distance right. and according to epson's
projector calculator, our screen not the wall. the screen needs to be
at least 11.8 feet away, 11.8 feet. - great dimensions, right? - 11.8 feet. how do you measure 0.8 of a foot. - so fortunately ceiling
grids are a standard. this is two by four. so it makes it pretty easy
for us to go one, two, three four, five, six, 12. now i was originally concerned
when i lined it up here at the light, but i think we just put it on this side and just move
the screen over an inch - it's 30 pounds. so what we're just going
to mount it to the t bar? - no the actual trusses that
support the ceiling. if you look at the way that
they're designed, it's kind of like a little edge on each
side and i measured it out. so i went and bought some two by 10 and i was thinking we just cut it to that size and just bloop
pretty fricking easy. right? - yeah, let's do that. - all right so then we can
worry about safety later. you're ready. i'm going to let go now. - yeah. just put your wood in here. - [jake] i've given you
my wood. it's all in you. wow you're pretty, pretty
good at handling wood. - oh yeah. i can't see a thing, with
that light in my eyes. oh wow. that's really tight. (loud banging) - ah, look at that. okay. let's see if it's strong. - [jake] what the hell, oh my - oh no. - [jake] wow. that was really dumb. don't worry i got this. (metal sliding) - [jake] nobody could
have saw that coming. - [linus] here we go. wait how is it that heavy? - it's really not that heavy. so - oh, shut up. all right. now i have it. - can you reach? - well, look, - just get off the ladder. it's really heavy if you want to - [linus] well you told me it wasn't i can't get it up come on, come on, okay let's try that - there's only a 30,000
dollar oled behind us. - oh, okay. oh no. the power cords over there
and the plugs over here. - no, it doesn't matter.
it's going in the ceiling. - oh, good thing that i
didn't remove this in the uk. cause then it might've breaks it - oh, - there we go. so how come we didn't
go with a gray screen? - the problem with an ambient
light rejecting screen. is that the viewing angles aren't exactly fantastic always. - damn daniel. - [jake] how far down does it go? - i think that's good. - that feels pretty good. - okay so you're on
the screen? yeah. yeah. we're we're definitely good
cause i've got 12 feet to here. huh, nice. - i think we'll take the mount
plate and like put the rod on it just so we're
getting that corner proper and then sort of mark
it and then drill it. it works out to being
just about right there. so just take the nuts off. - watch this. you you're
going to love my nuts - ha ha ha it was a bad joke. - jake. i need you back over
here. i forgot my nut washer. put that on there because what was hell was that. - why did you just let go of it? i was just trying to tilt it forward. - what even was that, can you grab my tiny nut here? and twist? - what are we doing right now? - they're parfait. so that should (loud grunt) - heavy projector right? - do a few reps of that. do we need to access these bolts? - i mean, once it's already in there it's not going to matter
or just leave it for now. just like the mount separates from.. that's what i was trying to say is you can just pull it right out. there was the reason
we do the things we do. oh. i just realized that
the mount location is not necessarily the lens of the projector. oh, let's do it on the other side. - crap. - [jake] you're moving the
things so much every time - should be fine. (loud drilling) - [jake] how's that in your eyes? - i love the screen size but the mounting process
is just so tedious. and this is even with a drop ceiling. this is your best case scenario. so wait, what do i just pop this on there? - hold on. i gotta put this on here first. - thanks jay that's really helpful putting the sound effects. don't worry i got this. (grunting) - [jake] he's a small man on a big ladder. - small man big ladder episode three. - [jake] will he dropped the projector. - oh god. - i'll let it fall on me. - oh god. the ladder is in the wrong spot. - really? oh is the ladder in the way? oh my god - it's fine. it's fine. (grunting) - is it on? - [jake] i don't know - i think it's on. yeah, it's on. it's on. yeah this is sick. oh yeah. i'll turn it on. so this is what we're talking about. where if we didn't have lens shifts we basically have to go like this but because we do
theoretically, we can just what the balls, - [jake] that is so cool - i love optics. for you home cinema nerds.
this is like uh yeah duh - [jake] but every projector
in the last twenty years. - we were getting it all
aligned and dialed in. and then i realized, this is a 50 foot active
optical hdmi cable from infinite cables. and all of that is pretty neat. except when you consider that
it is hdmi 2.1 certified. so that makes it pretty freaking baller. - this projector looks way
better than the old one. just even on the patterns. - [linus] boy, is this not a
light rejecting screen though? we're going to have to
go close those windows. damn daniel. this thing pops. - [jake] this is way brighter
than the old projector. - oh yeah. a hundred percent. - the old one was 3000 lumens but this is definitely way brighter. and the colors look way more accurate. we haven't even touched it. - no, no calibration yet at
all, but they're super rich. every pixel on this thing
looks so freaking sharp. like. damn can you see that? all right, here we go. everyone quick. get yoshi. - i'm yoshi screw you. - [linus] i love how every single one of us has a 60 inch tv see ya later, buddy. i'm ready to get rubber banded. oh, thanks for the blue shell jackass. oh oh oh nice. oh, that was awesome. right before the jump. this is fricking awesome. this was totally worth it. a hundred percent. - a few moments later. - i just got sniped. - i hate this game. - i was in first, the entire
race. very end, boom fifth. - who's villager - that's me - oh what? - [linus] gg nicole. meanwhile, sarah, actually did end up beating me in spite of
holding her controller weird. (laughing) - [linus] not bad you're not going to get
that same hdr sparkle that you would on like a
qled, but it looks damn good. and it's huge. damn - [jake] this is the best
project i've ever used. - [linus] a lot of the time
people watch our videos about projectors and go like why do people even care about projectors. you can just get a tv, the size. it's just totally different. - [jake] oh jesus. let me just ruin this for everybody. - [linus] wow. you're that
guy in the theater right now? - [jake] yep. - so big shout out to
eastporters audio video, infinite cables, klipsch, sure they sent the speakers for lounge v1 but we're still using them. they're still awesome. and of course epson. thanks for sending over
the sweet projector hookup. i am so ready for movie nights to continue but almost there just need one more jab. oh, just like you guys
need one more message from our sponsor. freshbooks, freshbooks is the easy to use accounting software designed
specifically with you in mind the small business owner. it's easy to use and has built an automation. so you'll spend less
time tracking projects and more time doing what matters most which is growing your business. so whether you're a trades
person, creative agency or youtube, they've got a
plan that's right for you. and if you have trouble they have award-winning
toronto-based customer support. that is always happy to
help you if you need it. so try freshbooks for
free for 30 days today. no credit card required
at freshbooks.com/linus. if you guys enjoyed this
video, maybe go check out the epiqvision video that we did. i swear to you guys as much as it looks like a tv, it's a projector.