- this is the fastest
gaming cpu on the planet! or at least it was when
amd first announced it. intel beats them to the punch with what they claim is
the fastest gaming cpu: the core i9-1200ks. they put that together so quickly, we didn't get a chance to review it before they shoved it out door. what is it about this
unassuming little square, the ryzen 7 5800x3d, that's got intel so scared that they dropped everything
to come out ahead of it? i'll tell you, but first i'm gonna drop this
message from our sponsor. - lambda created with razer, their new tensorbook
comes with an rtx 3080 linux and lambda stack
with pytorch and tensorflow so machine learning engineers can develop ai models anytime, anywhere. learn more at the link down below. (electronic music) - amd's new gaming cpu achieves its fastest ever gaming claims by using their shiny new
3d v-cache technology, where ultra-fast cache memory is stacked on top of the cpu die, in addition to the cache
that's already inside it. but why is cache so important for gaming that amd would go out of their way to literally make a cash sandwich? because it's so close to
the cpu cores, it is fast! you can think of it roughly like the relationship
between ram and storage. and there are different levels of cache that get even faster the
closer they get to the cores. 3d v-cache is l3 cache,
which for the 5800x3d, is a shared pool of cache memory for all of its eight cores. for games, this cache is
used for, well, everything. but especially for things
like ai behavior trees, physics information, and other things that the
cpu is constantly doing. if the cache fills up and this stuff has to
be evicted back to ram, the cpu not only has to wait for new data to arrive from ram, but it also has to wait for the old data to come back when it's needed again. this is what you'd call a bottleneck. and this one will lower frame
rates of cpu bound games, or cause hitching, even when fps is high. with three times the
cache of its namesake: the ryzen 58007x. the 5800x3d promises to basically never run out of cache on
a normal circumstances, which should improve gaming performance. to test that, we've got a range of cpus from both team red and team blue, including the brand new 12900ks. and we've equipped our intel bench with the fastest memory we had available to give it the best chance
to rain on amd's parade. we'll have all this linked down below. right away, 3d v-cache makes
itself known in f1 2021, where it beats out the core i9-1200k and matches the brand new 12900ks. and this continues to a lesser
extent with forza horizon 4, where the 5800x3d slips a little
bit, but nothing too major. far cry 6 brings the first maybe. one percent low frame rates
in averages look good, but five percent lows
are significantly lower as they are with the standard 5800x. amd is at a disadvantage here. hitman 3 shows more of this pattern, albeit with better news
for amd in general, as average frame rates are
higher than even the 12900ks, at the cost of frame stability. microsoft flight simulator brings the first flawless
victory over the entire field, where it seems the
extra cache really helps with maintaining not only
high, but stable frame rates in this very cpu bound title. c-s go, also famously cpu bound, but with an older and
more simplistic engine, tips the scales back towards intel with the 12900ks taking a commanding, almost 20% lead in average fps. oh, and you're not
getting better turn times in civilization v1, fyi. but i don't think that's quite
what they were talking about when they called it, "the
world's fastest gaming cpu". you're also not getting better turn times with our recently restocked
wan hoodies from ltdstore.com, but at least you'll look
good while you wait. tallying it all up, the 5800x3d pulls about
a seven percent lead over the 12900k, which would've made it
the fastest gaming cpu, if only the 12900ks didn't exist. a fact certainly not lost on intel. the 12900ks is about three percent faster across our benchmarks. but it's worth remembering
that that cpu costs $800. more on that later. amd hasn't really marketed
the 5800x3d for productivity and the slower clock speeds are probably going to hurt it more here than the extra cache will help. sure enough, we see about a
five percent performance drop across the board in cinebench
r23 over the og 5800x. and blender doesn't
fear much better in bmw. surprisingly 3d v-cache appears to help with the more complex gooseberry render. likely thanks to being able
to keep more asset data close to the cores. creative cloud shows a
similar performance uplift, with premiere picking a
good five percent lead over the 5800x. and finally, specviewperf shows a similar give and
take, depending on the tests. with life sciences and general operations seeing a performance boost, and energy and financial
services taking a hit. looking at all our tests, it works out to roughly equal performance to the non-58003dx at the end of the day. so you'd have to pay attention
to the specific benchmarks to know if it's better
for a given workload. intel meanwhile, is firmly on top. and it's it's not even close. even the core i7-12700k is way out ahead. that means that unless
you're in the market for a top-end cpu, the 12700k represents a better value for productivity overall than either of those ryzen 7 chips. for thermal testing, i decided to give these
chips a workout using prime95 to see just how hot they'll get. and the 5800x3d pleasantly
surprises in this torture test, with a consistent 90 degrees
using our noctua nh-d15s. and that's just a few degrees more than the standard 5800x puts out, and significantly lower
than either core i9. what's more, it maintained
4.1 gigahertz all core, throughout most of the run, with power consumption below the og5800x. even though both cpus are
rated for 105 watt tdp, precision boost doesn't
seem to be pushing the x3d quite as hard. why the hotter cores then? well, you've got the 3d v-cache sitting between the cores and the ihs, so it's less thermally efficient. which brings up the other reason the ryzen 7 5800x3d is special: overclocking. or rather, lack thereof, for the first time on the ryzen platform. amd says that this is a limitation for this one specific cpu, because the 3dstats cache memory needs a hard capped maximum
voltage for reliability. not only does that mean that overclocking one of these things would potentially be dangerous, it also means that thanks
to the extra power draw required to run the 3d v-cache, core clocks are lower than
the vanilla 5800x, as we saw. obviously that hasn't
hurt it much in practice, but you can imagine how
much faster things could be if only that limitation weren't in place and they can drive the clocks
just that little bit faster. overall, it's a weird chip, but (chuckles) it's not a bad one. is it the most powerful
gaming see you in the world? no, it's beaten out by the core i9-1200ks. but again, that cpu is a power
hungry beast that costs $800. the ryzen 7 5800x3d is $450, which makes it the fastest gaming cpu at a price that makes any sense. and that's why the core i7-12700k at $400 is in our test lineup. that chip still represents
an extremely good value. it's not far off for gaming
and dominates for the price, if you need productivity. plus, it's running on
a brand new platform. speaking of platforms, hit subscribe, because we've got a brand
new storage platform with a petabyte of flash, (bell dings) and we are totally gonna benchmark it. but the 5800x3d is a fitting sendoff to a platform that's been around since i started writing
for linus tech tips. by all accounts, this
is probably the last cpu that am4 is going to see. i wouldn't recommend it for new builds, the platform's a dead-end. but if you are primarily a gamer who got into amd's ecosystem early and you've been waiting
for a chip to upgrade to, then this is a solid choice
for top-tier performance that won't require you
to take a second job. it doesn't need fancy cooling,
or a big power supply, or even new ram. could you get similar
performance by overclocking a plain ryzen 7 5800x or
even the new $300 5700x? probably, yeah. but if you don't want to deal with that, or if you are a small
form factor enthusiast, then for you, the 5800x3d
has few downsides. and neither does our sponsor. - zoho crm! zoho crm is a 360-degree solution for managing your
business sales, marketing, and customer service. with their intuitive ui
and simple navigation, you can implement their service
quickly and efficiently, with minimal disruption
to your current processes. they offer ai predictions
to help you understand your customer's needs, so you can see trends
and purchase patterns by a variety of indicators. plus, their inbuilt design studio helps you customize your crm experience to help you spot critical
customer or account information, at a glance; helping you
get your work done faster. zoho offers flexible
contracts, transparent pricing, and an ever-evolving product
that grows to meet your needs without snowballing costs. with over 15 years of
experience in the industry, and over 250,000 clients, zoho crm is a great
solution to support you in your customer relationship
management needs. get 50% off your annual subscription when you use the code: zcrm50 using the link in the video description. - thanks for watching guys. go check out our most recent sleeper where we had to (chuckles)
go to some extreme lengths to make a core i9-12900k work. the 5800x3d here, would've been a much
better fit, literally.