- we're kicking off a
very exciting episode of linus tech tips. today we have the one and only seth curry,
now, tell me something, have you ever done a
celebrity pc build before? - i have not, man, i'm excited about it. i'm excited about kind of
stepping out to a different world. something i know nothing about. - and if it goes well, maybe
someday, you'll get to do one with someone really
cool, like jayztwocents. - yeah. (energetic music) - tell me something. we are gonna build a top of
the line gaming rig today, why do you even need something that crazy? - 'cause i'm a big time gamer
and growing in the space. i know last year during the
pandemic and in the bubble, i got into pc gaming. i just wanna learn more about
it, you know what i'm saying? - have you ever even installed
a graphics card before or is this it? - i haven't. this is, like i said, i'm a rookie. hopefully, i learn a lot
and get better today. maybe i can do it on my own. - so what have you done to
train for this build today? - i gotta be honest,
man, i'm not to prepared. like i said, i know i got an expert here that's going to walk me
through it, teach me the ways. i'm gonna have some
questions for you as we go, but i'm as rookie in as they come. - so many people wanna get into pc gaming, but they have no idea where to start and they feel like they're
gonna ask a stupid question and someone's gonna hate
on them or whatever. but that's your job today, isn't it? - yeah, that's one of
the reasons i'm here, that's why i'm doing it. i wanna get to know
that the finite details. - so, you gotta find your motherboard. - the box here that
says motherboard on it, so i'm assuming it's that one. real quick, - yes. - real quick, what tools do i need before we get started? like the basic screwdriver? - i love this. he's asking all the right
questions already, okay, yes. pretty much all you're
gonna need is a screwdriver. if you wanna get into cable
management, stuff like that, you might need some side cutters to, you know, clip off your zip ties. an anti-static wrist or ankle
strap is kind of recommended. - so i gotta be careful messing around, do i need to take my watch off or what? you kind of scared me a little. - no, you're good with your watch. your power supply is over on your left. - okay. - and it's the one that
says 1000 watts on the front in very shiny holofoil, there you go. - got it right here. - [host] fantastic. so start by opening that sucker up. - oh, the asus gifts and the stickers and all that come included, yeah? this is not the right one? - [technician] the big box, on the side. - oh, they took it out. - oh, wait, what? they
took the power supply out. (host laughs) - yeah, it's just cool. i was a little confused when
i opened it. it was cords. okay. here we go. - [host] they robbed you
of the unboxing experience. - i know. - [host] all right. i want you to find the power
cord that goes into that three pin plug. yep, that's the one. yep. so we're just going to plug
this power supply into the wall as though we were going
to power up the system, - okay. - but we're not going
to power up the system. hopefully there's a power
outlet somewhere kind of nearby. i would assume. - yeah, i hope so. there's one down here, but i
might need an extension cord. that's the, hmm. - they got this. that's
okay. in the meantime, why don't i walk you through
some of the cables you're going to plug into the other side. - [seth} okay. - you've got what's called
a modular power supply and it's good for cooling. it's good for cable management
and it's good for just having a really clean, nice looking build. - yeah, that is key. can i just say i'm having
so much fun already? - it's early and we're
kicking it off with a bang. - you're doing awesome. okay, you want to find the thickest one. - looks like this one here. - [host] that's your 24 pin connectors. so go ahead and untie that, guy. - got it. - every computer build needs
one of those these days. so the one that splits apart, that one goes into the power supply. pc manufacturers are smart like that. they mostly make it so you
can't screw it up too bad. - okay. - and they should have
little keys on them. and then in the back of
the power supply there, there'll be like a little notch. right there. yep. perfect. - yep. okay we're in. - it's so cool for other people, i think, to see someone who's so well coordinated having exactly the same
damn struggles that we do. 'cause the thing just
won't go in the thing. - so i'm going to catch my rhythm and we're going to keep it going
smooth. one of these times. - i've got all the exact same
parts over here on my side - okay. - so that i can really guide you here. speaking of coaching,
is it ever kind of tough having your father-in-law as a coach? (seth laughs) - i thought it would be, but it's usually harder on my
wife then than anything else. after a bad loss, if the next
day coming over for dinner, it can get a little awkward
here and there, but.. - so you're going to
grab a couple of cables that are going to say pcie on them. - i got it. - [host] so the other end where it says - psu? - that one's going to go
into the power supply. - next to the one i plugged in? - ah, yes. yep, you can
use that one. fun fact: the state of california
recently banned the shipment of systems with graphics cards
this powerful into the state. - gee. okay, and this power supply
ran out of room at the bottom. so now i go up top? - you bet. you've got
three connectors here that are labeled cpu/vga/pcie. i think they could label these better. - i agree. - you have built yourself a beautiful pitch-black octopus
there, with red accents. (seth laughs) - yeah. - i love it. one way to make sure that
you keep all your parts safe is to ground yourself. stay grounded. - mm, hmm. i got good
traction on my shoes, so (host laughs) - i wasn't worried about you slipping. (host laughs) - you saying for the case? - for static electricity. - oh, oh. - so whenever you move around, you just want to touch that power supply anywhere on the metal part of it. and that's going to ground you. we're going to go ahead
and we're going to grab the motherboard, which was over on your right. perfect. oh man, dude's a natural. so you're going to go ahead
and put it down on top of the box and that's it. cardboard
does not conduct electricity. - okay. - so that's a safe place
to put a motherboard. here's one of the biggest
challenges of pc building. you got to install the cpu. so you play a fair bit of war zone, is my understanding, is that right? - i do. that's the normal
go-to game right now. - this thing is going to
slay war zone for you. so you're going to be
running a core i9-11900k. - okay. oh, this little guy right here. - that's the one. there's
one corner of that cpu. that's got a little golden triangle on it. i want you to try and find that for me. - golden triangle. i see
it. i see it. i see it. - you're going to look at your motherboard and on that little black piece on the top, so on there, there's going
to be a little imprint of a black triangle. - yes. - okay, that's the orientation
that we're going to want. - [seth] okay. - so now we've got to
actually install it though. my mouth is like cotton. i believe in you though. - we gonna get it done, trust me. - so there's a little metal arm. you want to pull that out to the side, to the side towards the
memory slots there. perfect. now you see those little pins in there? - i do. - so if one of those pins gets bent, that's it, dead computer. - [seth] okay. - so you want to hold the cpu by the edges and try to lower it kind
of perfectly in place with those two triangles aligned. he even gave it the little
wiggle without me prompting him. that's amazing. (seth laughs) - i'm gonna go ahead and
ground myself real quick. - i love it. - yep, there you go. just
with confidence go forward. so, pull it out and then
hook it under the thing. and that black piece
should pop off the top. - [seth] okay. - that's outta here. - okay. i thought i broke it for a second. - okay, that was the hardest part. - oh, it's going to be easy peasy then. - next thing we're going
to need is our memory. we've got some corsair
dominator platinum rgb. got all the shiny lights on it. - this looks pretty cool right here. - 64 gigs. that's kind of overkill, but - it's a little much. - [host] see those four slots that are kind of right
in front of you there? - here? got it. - [host] there's some little tabs there. yep. you want to pull those back. - yeah. - [host] perfect. - which way should it? okay. - yep. you were right the
first time you got it. you're going to have to push quite firmly. and the tab will snap itself into place. - yep. got the first one in. - nice. - it's like sports, you catch a rhythm, you keep moving pretty smoothly. - i really follow basketball very closely. and so one of my guys had to
tell me this before the stream, but i heard you actually had
a career best game in the playoffs this year. - yeah i had a career year. i
had a great series personally. i wish we would have won. - you guys gave him a good fight though, i mean, seven games. that's not exactly lying down and just
letting them roll over you. - yeah, it was a fun series for sure. but, well actually, what
sports do you watch? - do you promise not to laugh? - let me hear it. - i'm following olympic
badminton very closely. i'm a big badminton fan. - badminton? wow. i've
been watching water polo, i'm not going to lie, so we're
kinda in the same boat there. - yeah. those are both
kind of uncool sports, but man water polo, you
got to respect those guys. you ever try and play water polo? - i've never played it before. - it is unreal. you know,
imagine eggbeatering yourself up waist high out of the water so you can make a shot like that. those guys are going. - yeah that upper body strength is crazy. - so you've got cpu and memory installed. let's find your ssd. so
it's a seagate firecuda 520 is what you're looking for. this has got two terabytes of storage. you can throw a ton of games on here. and if you ever need more,
you can actually add more. i think this motherboard's got
two or maybe actually three m.2 slots on it. four. haha, i lied. so you're going to need your screwdriver. you'll need a #1 phillips head in it. - all right, i got the one. - [host] so do you see
that piece that says hero? - yes, hero, got it right here. - you're going to take off the two screws that are in that hero piece. this is what it's going to
look like when it comes off. - [seth] okay. - [host] there you go. i heard that click. that's a good click. - yep. this is a little fella. - haha, yet another evolutionary
advantage for small people. (seth laughs) - we can handle computer screws. - big hands are not an advantage here. - now, would you consider
yourself like a handyman? like around the house?
like, are you pretty handy? - out of 10, i'll say i'm about a three. i can get enough done
around the house to where my wife doesn't yell at me. - well, that's kind of the bar, isn't it? - yeah, exactly. - i've done builds with
people before where they just, they over torque that thing. 'cause these are little tiny screws. so you could strip the threads off them. - it's a subtle thing about
being rough enough to get in there, but not overdoing it. and i got a good little touch. man we're making really
great progress here. - feeling good about it.
you're a great teacher, man. i got to give you your flowers. - thank you. thank you. i kind of lied to you before. the cpu is not really the hardest part. it's just the riskiest part. in the very bottom corner
of the motherboard, there's nine little pins
sticking up labeled f panel. ah, yep. - [seth] f panel. i see it here, yep. - that is the hardest part. - okay. i call it f panel because
when you're working on it, it makes you say, f i wish
i wasn't working on this. - this is another time
where the big hands is at a disadvantage. (host laughs) - yeah, a little bit. i imagine. i've never experienced it. - there's one that has nothing above it. so you ignore that one.
that's like the smelly kid on the team, you know? - yeah. - he plays real good.
so you gotta pick him, but you don't want to have lunch with him. - i understand that. all right we're plugged in. - so, i lied to you a little bit before, because this is actually going to be, kind of the hardest part. - it sounds like practice when coach says one more thing and we're done, and one more thing and we're done, one more thing and we're done,
and we got an hour practice. - we're going to go find our
motherboard screws first. we're going to be ready. can you believe we've been
at this for an hour already? - it's been an hour? - it's been an hour. without even trying to
put the motherboard in, i just want you to see if that
threads in properly to one of the posts in the case there. - it does. - ah, well, in the case i
want you to check and put it. - oh, another screwdriver in the case. - perfect. okay, so right now you've
got kind of your case here and you got your motherboard
lying next to it, right? like this, right? so you see that rectangular cutout there? - yes. - that's going to line
up with all those ports. and you just want to
try and see those posts through the holes in the board. so we don't want to scrape
it around too much, ideally. - okay. - 'cause if we scratch the motherboard, it can make it not worky anymore. you know what? i can
make this easier on you. we're just going to lay the case down. so let's try that again. but with gravity helping rather than, - uh, oh. - don't worry, we got
this. they didn't go far. - i think i got it. - okay. so i couldn't help noticing
you're building a desktop here. how does that work with travel? you travel a lot, right? - [seth] i have a asus laptop
that i bring on the road and play with in my hotel room, so - got it. now tell me something,
as part of your rider, do you have that you
need to stay in a hotel that has decent internet? (seth laughs) - i'll tell you a funny
story. we were, in the bubble and the first two days
the internet was horrible. everybody was trying to get on. everybody was setting up
there. it was horrible. so i complained. and the next day they were
setting up better wifi and they got it done. - well i wish i had that kind
of sway, man, that's crazy. as a pc gamer, are you kind of an anomaly? is everyone else x-box. - it's primary console, so most
guys got x-box, playstation. i could probably count the
number of guys in the league that i know personally have a
pc set up and pc gamers, and - do you have any idea why that would be? - i just don't think they know about it. honestly, i didn't know
about pc gaming until a year and a half, two years ago. - it's like we live in
completely different worlds. - yeah. one of my friends were telling
me all along about pc gaming. it was all coming back to me. - well, what do you like about it? whatever even attracted you to it? - the frames, the
smoothness of the gameplay, being able to customize it to how you personally
want to play your games was a big difference in the way i play. and i got a lot better once i got on it. so, i couldn't turn back. - you cannot buy an endorsement like that 'cause you're just speaking the truth. - i thought pc game was playing sims on a macbook, or something. - it's so mind blowing to me. you can describe high frame
rate smoothness to someone. - mm-hmm. - but it's the feel. - [seth] exactly. - so your motherboard's in. we're less than an hour
and a half into this mess. - i broke a little sweat
getting on that one. that was the hardest part. - pc building sweat. that's a stress sweat - yeah. - and stress sweat, it stinks. - it smell worse, yeah. (host laughs) (seth laughs) - we're going to stand the case back up and grab the power supply,
it's time to install that. - all right. - now, i got to confess, as kind of a normie,
my assumption is that, you guys kind of eat, sleep,
drink, breathe basketball. - yeah. you know, i just kind of thought, hey, they probably don't have
a ton of time for hobbies. - yeah. - were you always a gamer? - i use gaming as a relax
time, as a recovery time. so, especially on the road, i
integrate it into my routine, as far as what i'm doing in a hotel room. - man, okay, here's advantage
to the big hand, guy. (host laughs) (seth laughs) i mean you might not realize
the jokes i'm making at my expense here. i'm about 5' 6.5", okay? - okay. (seth laughs) - when you're 5' 6" you
count the half, all right? - when you're 6' 2.5" in the
nba, i count that half, too. - you know what, actually, that's a good point. i never
really thought about that. you're not that tall for an nba player. - i'm your average person on the street, but a little guy in the nba. 6' 2.5" i need that extra half. so really we're kin right now. - i understand, trust me. (host laughs) - do you think you're likely to put this computer on the floor or is it going to go up on your desk? - probably on the desk. - if it's going to go up on the desk, then what i want to do is i want to put the fan side
of the power supply down because this case has nice
big feet on the bottom. it's got a lot of room for ventilation. and if you think that it's
likely to be up off the floor, then there's no danger of
dust getting sucked in. so you grab your octopus
with your left hand. you're actually going to slide
it in from the back of the case. i know in hockey, in the off season, everyone's just playing golf. - [seth] yeah. - what does it for basketball?
you guys like bowling? is that more applicable? or like, - everybody got their own thing. it's less and less golfers
out there by the year though. just 'cause the leagues getting younger. as you get older in the league and more veterans start to try to learn to play golf and do different things, but golf falling out of favor,
i guess, for guys in nba. - man, i can't even imagine, you know, i go to like the beer league
softball game and fricking lebron james shows up. - yeah. for some reason that's another sport that a lot
of people play, i guess. it's a little easier to learn than golf. - or like your brother's
playing catch or something. - yeah. - yeah. probably not, i
imagined being like 6' 2" trying to get in that catcher squat, that can't be a lot of fun. - put me at third base
outfield. i'll knock it out. - this part can be a little tricky, but it's not the hardest
part. actually, oh man, for you with the big hands, it might be - [seth] this is tough. - because you got to hold
the two things together. - got one in. oh, no. - if you get desperate, a nice old pc building trick is just to take a piece of tape and tape the two pieces together, so it's a little bit
easier to put them there. this part's a little tricky. don't worry. it takes everyone some time. okay, i'll try not to distract you. - it's not you it's me. - known each other for a couple hours and already you're breaking up with me. - all right, got one in. yeah, that made it a lot easier. - hey, that's what i'm here
for, for the tech tips. now this is probably also a dumb question, but all the gamers have got to know. do you guys actually play nba games? - a lot of guys play nba 2k. - do you play though? - i do, yeah. - do you think that ea is
fair to your skill level? - no, i do not. (host laughs) if you have a good month,
they'll adjust your ratings and make you a little bit better, make you a little bit worse, but i don't think i'm
close to where i should be. - oh, love this, he's doing
the cable management right. ladies and gentlemen, this rig is going to
look sick when he's done. so you are doing awesome, for serious. i'm not even just like,
oh, he's a celebrity and you have to tell him he's
doing a good job and whatever. you pick another connector and
i'll show you where it goes. oh wow, this case has a ton of front usb. i forgot about that. i
hate to tell you this, that top usb 3.0 that we had over here, it's got a little metal housing around it. - yeah, i see it. - we're going to have to swap those two. (seth sighs) 'cause your graphics card is
not going to go in right now. his attitude is so good
when i tell him, oh, you gotta redo it. i guess
you're used to that though, hey? - i don't know, man. - that's a good drill.
do it over, you know? does that ever happen where the coach tells you the wrong thing and you're the one who ends
up having to do it over? (seth laughs) - you usually lose. - man, this is going to be so
much faster than your laptop. - i'm not going to
sleep tonight, trust me. - good. good, good, good. - wait did i screw something up? i have another power led, power led minus. where did that go again? - oh, yep, the little, yep, there you go. i cannot believe how fast you
are plugging these in with those giant mitts. power
led goes at the top left. so that whole top row should be full. - [seth] okay. - are you ready for the hardest part? - i'm ready. i'm ready, i got a good
lather. a good sweat. - we're going to do the water cooler. so that's going to be the rog ryujin 360. - liquid cooler, got it. - i'm having a lot of fun here, but it feels kind of unfair. 'cause this is, you know, my element and you got to try and do all my stuff. you're going to have to give
me some basketball pointers someday. - we'll get you on the
court next time we got a game in vancouver. - we haven't had real nba
team for, since i was a kid. - yeah. i was young. i remember. well, i don't really remember, but i seen the highlights. (host laughs) - ya. all right. so, for realsies,
this is the hardest part. you should have a back plate, that looks a little
something like this guy. - a back plate, um? - you have two. that is very interesting. you notice how it has
these four little like, whoa, that was close. don't worry. i got this. okay, see how it has these four
little bits in the corners? and see how they slide back
and forth a little bit. - yes. - there you go. and then you're going to
want to leave your left hand, holding that in place. you're going to thread
that into one of the holes. - on the front side, okay. - finger tight, finger tight,
but finger tight all the way. tell me something, what's your favorite thing
about streaming on twitch? - the legit questions,
talking to the chat, talking to my fans. i actually
like the giveaways, man. it's a lot of fun and
i met a lot of people, a lot of other streamers
through the twitch community, so it's been cool. um, these are all in. - i'm going to have you
sanity check something for me. - okay. - on your water cooler,
on the ball head like the head end. - this? - so there's thermal compound on it, don't touch that, if you can avoid it. - thermal compound? - it's that gray gunk. - oh, okay, okay, okay. tubes toward the back, okay. - and then we're going to
need these big old thumb nuts. okay, fantastic. now, we're going to start
by removing the velcro. we're just going to
take it all the way off. - what is this velcro
for? just a little grip? - it's a carrying handle, yeah. - yeah. - so you decide kind of
which way you like it. yeah. i like i like this. there we go. - okay. now pull it back out. so hubs are going to go up. good lord, they sent you rgb
fans, of course they did. - what does that mean? - it means a lot of cabling. - oh, okay. - i know that my camera guys commenting, i can't believe they hit
him with a triple radiator. - this one is a workout. - they really pulled
no punches. poor seth. there's no shame in
having trouble with this. asus really did kind of
throw him a curve ball, having him try to do a triple
radiator on his very first build. no, that was the
hardest part, really, i'm not going to spring
another one on you, i promise. - it's hard to believe you
after the 10th hardest one. (host laughs) - we're just going to keep rolling though. - can you turn it around so
i can see where we're at? - voila. - yeah, turn it around. let me see it from the back, you know? - what kind of content you're
putting out over there? - i'm into pcs like that. do you have any games
that are kind of like, a guilty pleasure? fluffy's adventure or anything like that? - nah, i don't. what was the one that people
were on a few months ago? it was like a race? - oh yeah, yeah, fall guys. - fall guys. yeah, yeah. - do you like fall guys? - that was fun for awhile. - yeah. that was pretty fun. did you ever actually win?
did you get the crown? - never, never. - me neither. apparently
it's really competitive now. like really tough. - really? - 'cause people know the games cold. - [seth] yeah. - and if you want advanced points, then you kind of run it
around to the back first and then bring it around and plug it in, but that is not necessary. - yeah. i'm just going to
keep it simple for this one. - heck yeah. we're doing a
little bit of movie magic here. asus actually left the stock cables in, but we're supposed to be using
these red and black ones from mainframe. so we have one of their
technicians swapping out the pci express cables before
seth goes any farther. have we already plugged in the usb 2.0? - [technician] it's in. - okay, wonderful. ah, now let's turn it around. we're going to focus on the back. those power connectors
for the ones in the top, let's grab those three. they're going to plug into
something called the commander pro. we're going to play
some hot and cold here. right, right, right, keep going, oh boiling hot, you're touching it. - oh, here, here. - hey, there we go. nice. - got you. - so all three of those go
into all three of those. you ever play hot and cold as a kid? - of course. i was pretty good. - so you want to hear
something really cool? - let me hear it. - now's time to install the gpu. so the way that we're going to
line this up is you're going to grab your gpu first, yup, there you go. rog strix, it's got all that rgb, all that silent fan operation.
you can overclock it if you want to get into that stuff. - you're speaking a different language. this thing is beautiful,
i ain't gonna lie. - oh, yeah. - it's a big boy. - your top slot is the one
that tends to have the fastest connectivity and your gpu needs that. this is pretty easy, but as
the most expensive possible mistake that you can make in this build. - i get that one. - just kind of keep finagling it until it's in exactly the right spot. once it's in, there's a little latch
at the back of the slot, a little plastic latch. that's going to close by itself. in your hand that gpu
doesn't even look that huge, - it's heavy. - oh, did that slide? - yup, it's in. - awesome. so see how it kind of sags like that? - yeah. - yep, so this slidey piece right here. - oh yeah. - you can twist it to the side
and loosen it a little bit and then you slide it to where you want it and it'll support the gpu from the bottom. then you tighten it up.
that's going to be really good when you're transporting
your pc back and forth. 'cause i don't know about
ups and fedex down there, but up here, yep, no comment,
no comment, you know? i'm gonna let you in on a little secret. it is bad jeebies to put
the side panels on the case or finish up anything right now. (seth laughs) if you don't power it on first, i guarantee you, it won't turn it on. are there any like basketball
superstitions like that? - i mean, i got a full
routine, game day routine. so from wake up to game
i have the same routine. so i don't really say a superstition, but i say a routine, you know? - what about like, when
you're on the free throw line? - i wouldn't say change
what you do every time. so some of the bad free throw
shooters have a different, when they catch the ball,
have a different routine of how many dribbles they take before they shoot, spinning the ball, do something different every time. you don't have like a rhythm. so the good free throw shooters, you see them take the exact
same amount of time from when they catch it to when they
shoot how many dribbles. it's just like repetition and, - this is it then. moment of truth. power buttons up on the top at the front. - oh yes. - oh, okay. - these lights are crazy. (host laughs) - [seth] wow. - [host] okay, come on monitor. that's normal. that's normal. first time you power on it's normal for it to do
what's called memory training. - okay. - yes, yes, yes, yes. okay, good. it's up, it's up, it's up. all right. big round of applause. we got it. (host claps) (seth claps) oh, i'm excited. okay. that's fantastic. - oh, yeah. - there's a couple of things
i want you to check for me. i want to see on the screen if all of your memory is detected. - yeah, 65536 megabytes. - you did it. that's it. first try. - thank you, sir. this is a lot of fun, man. worked out some muscles
i've never worked before trying to fit in some tight spaces, but it was all worth it. i mean, i got a different
connection to this machine now. - i guess that's it from our side. this thing looks absolutely awesome. even though it's all like
hanging out all over the desk, it already looks fricking sick. - i was a little stressed
when i came in here, but she made it easy on me. - it's all about making people
feel more comfortable asking these questions and having
this first experience. thanks again to asus rog
for sponsoring this video. as part of their build together, give together campaign asus
rog is giving you the chance to win one of two awesome gaming computers with all of the proceeds, going to bc children's hospital and they're giving to other gaming pcs to the philadelphia
communities in school program. so check out the link
in the video description to learn more. all right. thanks again so much. and you have a great rest
of your day. get some food. - yeah i will. all right. - all right, bye man. he did it. first try.