- if you've only ever watched our last couple of videos on the subject, i'd forgive you for
getting a bad impression of small form factor computers. you might think, oh man, they look like an absolute
nightmare to build. and if i want to get anywhere near decent cooling performance, i'm gonna have to go water cooling. but that is not actually the case. meet the joat. not to be confused with the goat. it's not the greatest of all time, it's just the-
- jack of all trades. - jack of all trades, yeah. ah, that's a good one, is
that actually their intention? - yeah.
- oh, that's funny. and it's got a lot of airflow. this video is brought
to you by ridge wallet. ridge wallet has redefined the wallet with its compact frame
and rfid blocking plates. use offer code linus to
keep your wallet bulge down and you can save 10% and
get free worldwide shipping. (electronic music) for starters, a little bit of
information about the joat. it's made by a company called spylabs. it's not that small, at about 14 liters, and it arrives flat-pack
with some assembly required. but you guys probably
figured that out by now. a couple of other things
that stand out about it compared to other boutique
small form factor cases are its compatibility with
extremely large cpu coolers, like the nh-p1 passive cpu cooler as well as its affordable price. it can be configured for
anywhere from around 125 to $150. there's an instruction manual,
let's see how good this is. neat. this is going to take a minute. did i say it's gonna be easy?
- yes. - did i lie.
- maybe. - based on the fact that i'm 30 seconds in and i've already needed
two kinds of unusual tools, i was going to criticize
them for a user-friendliness but they actually include
the allen keys that you need so that's not too bad. the only one is the socket
to put the stand off in and that would be true of
almost any computer case, it can be a little tough
to get those in there. you can also tighten them up with a pair of needle nose pliers. not everyone's gonna appreciate
this kind of aesthetic with, you know, big socket head screws hanging off of panels and stuff like that, but personally i've
always been partial to it so i'm kinda like in
the look of it so far. in four minutes, we've
gotten three panels together. we've got the power button installed now, so it's a simple, there you go, vandal resistant switch right there. a little, something like that, and i've managed to
find a defective screw. whoops. hopefully that doesn't screw us over. what the hell is this? did they include this in the box? wait, what the? is this actually like ac main's power that is just electrical taped. did we order this or did they, is this a review unit or what? - [alex] uh. - good lord, is this
they're actually shipping to real customers, alex? - [alex] i don't know. - why did they include
the chopped off one? this raises so many questions. - [alex] yep. - i mean, they're all shrink-wrapped. but if you do not have familiarity
with this kind of stuff, that's a big, you could
easily hurt yourself. i mean, steve from gamer's nexus wanted nzxt to recall their
case over the possibility that they could have
something almost this sketchy if the user modified it. this came out of the box. - just to clarify the sketchy cable, you're supposed to get
this one right here, but of course it's 2021
and those are all sold out. in the meantime, spylabs will
send you a normal power cable, which is why we have this guy right here, and you can modify it yourself
into the sketchy thing that we had, which will allow
you to fit a large air cooler. it's not an ideal solution, but it does mean when
this case arrives to you it's technically csa approved. - marveling at that for a full minute set us behind a little bit,
but now i'm ready to put the usb type-c front panel
connector on, there you go. not gonna lie, alex, i'm sketched out. (linus groaning) okay, i guess we're gonna have to settle for it sticking off a little bit. this one's not tapped properly either, you can see the threads
only go in halfway. - does it say what these are?
- yeah, they're m4. - [alex] m4, all right,
i'll go get an m4 tap. - okay, all right, thanks. this is kind of clever though, they've got these little plastic
spacers on the rubber feet, so that on the two that have
a screw right next to them, there's no interference. our smallest metric tap is m6. alex, can we get an m4
tap on order, please? - [alex] yep. - dammit. my impressed level keeps shrinking here. i don't think there were
extra screws either, so i'm gonna have to find a way to drive in that defective one. i swear the intention
today was to do a nice, easy, normal build without any
random tools being required. here we go. (humming) oh shit, i think we just scratched it. that's one of the dumbest
things i've done today. they glued the damn screw
in for the gpu mount. look, they have thread locker on it. there that's how the gpu
mount goes on, all right. why is there a rear io type-c thing? in case you don't want
to put it on the front? there were some challenges, but the good news is that 32 minutes later we're ready to build. oh, interesting. i just noticed there's
an alternate location for the power button. you can also put it here. now the keen eyed among you will probably have noticed
that we went what appears to be completely with our power supply. this is an 850 watt sfx power
supply from cooler master. but, there is a reason for it. small form factor power supplies generally have much less
capacitance than full-size models and what that means is that
if you have any components with high transient loads, like say for example, rtx graphics cards, which is to say they'll suddenly pull a very large amount of current
and then kind of ease off. you can end up blowing these things up if you don't over spec them, even though theoretically
they should have been fine. okay, well how's the power supply bracket figure into all this? there's no instructions to
install the power supply bracket. this is the worst. wait, what the hell? i just found another spot for the usb-c. you can also put your usb c on the bottom. why? is this the top panel,
did i do this wrong? i don't get it. i'm sure someone on reddit
was like, yeah, put it here. and then they were like, oh yeah, sure we can just put another hole in it. that's legitimately probably
how that story goes. yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
here we go, i got this. so this goes through the spacer and then into the power supply unit. - [alex] let's plug this in first. - oh, that's a good idea. i mean, well, it's an idea. i don't know if plugging this
into anything is a good idea. look, they've got a space here
for the cable to come out, but then they give you a cable
that goes this way, maybe. also these screws are rusting already. the about page on their website says, "at spylabs we are all
about function over form". i never thought elegance
mattered that much to me and then i got rusty, mismatched screws, right on the top of my
case and i changed my mind. well, the power supply's
in, for better or for worse. let's put the motherboard in. i mean, whatever. i don't think there's any rules. we've gone with any asus b550-i. yeah, it's not quite as balls to the wall as the x-570 variant,
but it's more affordable and since we're not overclocking it does everything we need it to do. one key feature it has
is usb bios flashback, which for the cpu that we're using is actually a critical feature since it doesn't support
it out of the box. and that cpu we've gone
with is the ryzen 5 5600x. the theme of the build today
is jack of all trades, right? and this will do it all for under $300. it's got six cores, it
turbos up high enough that it is among the fastest
gaming cpu's on the market, and it consumes just 65 watts meaning this system is
going to be nice and quiet in spite of its small stature. on the subject of cooling, the order of operations here is going to make our
build either a lot easier or a lot more difficult. so we want to get our cooler prepared, that is get the mounting hardware installed on the motherboard. we want to plug in our
eight pin eps connector. oop, little something like that. then we're gonna install the motherboard and bolt on the cooler what's
frustrating about this one is that compared to the last couple of nightmare, small form factor
builds that i've done, this one, all the
challenges feel unnecessary. when i know something's gonna be hard, i'm mentally prepared for it. when a screw just has the head filled in and i can't get my screwdriver in it, that's not a good time. the reason we ended up with a sata ssd in our jack of all
trades build is because, well, simply put, we wanted
two terabytes of capacity so that we can put lots
of games on our machine. and it was substantially cheaper than going with a two terabyte m.2, which isn't to say we don't
want to boot from m.2, so we went with a separate 500 gig drive, which cost us 80 bucks. it's only pci express gen three, but crucial's p5 is ample performance for anything that we could
want to do in a gaming rig, outside of maybe us needing
an upgrade to a gen four drive when microsoft direct storage shows up. that is, if it makes a
difference to performance. for usb 3 there's not really enough slack to do anything other than plug it in like that, unfortunately. and for ram we went with 3,200 megahertz cl16 ballistix from crucial and we went 32 gigs because
back to the theme of the system, jack of all trades, yeah, you can get away with 16 gigs for gaming, but it's nice to be able to
be a jack of all trades ass and just leave all your chrome tabs open and all your background tasks
running while you're gaming and for that, you can actually
exceed 16 gigs these days. so we were like, ah, we're
lazy, we're putting in 32 gigs. you don't have to though. love these relish, mustard, ketchup, and then whatever you'd put
on a hot dog that's blue, colored cables here. well, if we're going to
have funky colored cables, i'm embracing it. let's go with a purple sata cable. this is not what was included
with the motherboard, i'm just having some fun now. now it's time for the chungus. - [alex] wanna put the power in first? - oh, that power. yes, we should do that first. oh balls, this has to go
in from the other side. and it's fixed. i could really like touch that exposed main's power from here. i do like fireworks. the only thing katy perry
and i have in common, we're both a firework now
that i have this case. alex, how sure are you that
this thing is gonna close? this looks extremely borderline. sure, go for it. oh my god, that's really,
really there, okay, yeah, fine. i've apparently gone with
a founder's edition card. the founder's edition cards are a great choice for a build like this because they take all of
their air from the bottom and push it all out the top, and that's exactly how
the natural convection of this case is going to work, so. we do have a problem though, with the back plate we
have an interference issue with our ginormous cooler. okay, we did get a non-bank
plated card in there. see, that'll go in. but the back of the card is
actually touching the cooler, which is terrible
because that's gonna mean that we're going to short
circuit the back of the card, definitely destroy it at some point. we could jam some
electrical tape in there, just put it along the back of the card. we could install it, but it
wouldn't be ideal anyway because once we put a larger card in here, it's gonna cover most of the bottom part of a passive convection based cooler, which means that it's not gonna get air flow that it's expecting
and it's not gonna perform like we would want it to,
so we're gonna pull this out and we're gonna swap it out for an nh-d15. thanks, alex. you know what, it's probably
just as well the p-1 didn't fit because for its price, it's
really not that practical. this is really tight. now i got to get this fan clip on. poor noctua, i'm sure
they're watching this going, "ah, what is he doing?" got that clip on, given that it is right up against the top
panel, that was really tricky. but the cooler's on now which means we are ready to put our
originally planned 3060 ti gpu. so this was chosen
because it, there we go, it's a good card and it's fast. but without being at a
completely ridiculous price. there's a little clippydoodle
to hold it in the right spot. these screws don't
really fit through here. i mean, this is not surprising
to me at this point. there we go. this is crazy. this bolt has a lock
washer, a regular washer, and then the nut that
they're using is a lock nut with like that plastic material,
nyloc there you go, thanks. they really do not want
your gpu going anywhere. i mean, given how much you
must've paid for it these days, i guess i get it. there we go, we can, i don't know, i mean, the cable management
om this thing is a nightmare regardless of what we do at this point so. this is a pretty sick
little machine though, let's get it closed up. then we go like that. oh my god, this one's not
threaded all the way in again. any screws a self tapper
if you press hard enough. let's go ahead and fire this up. you know, now that the pain is over. it only really took an
hour and a half to build. i would like for it to turn on now. okay, i installed the
front panel connectors on a usb header. here's a little tech tip for you, when it's really, really hard to get at the front panel connectors and you're not gonna be able to put them all on individually, you just put a little
strip of tape across them. there, now they're all one, better. okay, i think we've got it. i feel like i shouldn't
be putting this on yet, but i'm gonna do it anyway. the only things we really
need to change in here are to enable docp, so
that's gonna put our memory at it's like overclocked faster speed. and if we were installing windows 11, we're obviously gonna
have to tweak our tpm as well as our secure boot settings, but we're not so we're not
gonna worry about that. you know, oh, you know what you said, this cooler master power supply
didn't have a silent mode? it does, the fans off. and then the gpu has a
fanless mode, i believe. it's not balanced right now though. they're spinnign too, but
boy are they ever quiet. this is fricking awesome! i do like the look. am i weird? is it weird that i think this looks cool? i mean, obviously you're
not gonna get a lot of dust filtration going on. - [alex] yeah, but you can also blow compressed air straight through it. - that's true, you wouldn't even have to take off the side panel, just, fwoosh! of course, the real question
is can it run "crysis?" i'm cheating a little, we're using dlss, but it's not really cheating,
that's a feature of this gpu. the total cost for this
build is around $1,750, which is not cheap by any
stretch of the imagination. but when you consider that
this does basically everything that a top of the line
gaming machine would do, is darn near silent. we're running "crysis
remastered" at 1440p. very high, at around 60 fps. not much to complain about, is there? i guess it makes sense that if the gpu is given
completely unrestricted access to fresh air and it just
goes right out of the case, the fans don't have to ramp up as much. it's kind of like running your system as like an open air test bench. of course, we want to know
the worst case scenario, so i'm firing up eight
threads of small ffts in prime 95 here. we're gonna hit that cpu
and a little bit harder. we're gonna get back into "crysis," and we are monitoring our temps with hardware info in the background. we're also screen recording. so this is, this is pretty brutal. in fact, this is too brutal, you can see that our gpu
is only about 60% utilized because we don't have
enough cpu resources left. let's run a few fewer threats. this poor gpu does not
get the datas it needs while we're running prime
95 in the background. so this is basically
the worst case scenario for what we could do with an actual game. and this thing is almost completely the silent holding it up to my microphones. that's incredible. our maximum temp on the
cpu hit about 65 degrees. yeah, not too shabby. and our gpu managed, yeah, 82. but it's also turboing up
pretty darn nice for us, around two gigahertz on a 3060 ti. the build quality of the case might've been a little bit
poop, but overall, i like it. just like, i like our sponsor. thanks to drop for sponsoring this video. in celebration of the first avenger, drop's captain america custom key cap set is styled in true blue and dark red with silver and red legends
to complete cap's iconic look. it contains several heroic touches, such as captain america's star logo and the marvel red box logo and is sculpted in drop's
signature mp3 profile, which features scooped keys and
doubleshot abs construction. it includes 160 key caps, including a full num
pad and extra modifiers for different layouts. so bring captain america's signature style to virtually any keyboard
using the link down below. if you guys enjoyed this video and you're looking for
more me trying to build small form factor machines and tearing my hair out goodness, we're gonna have another
fun one for you to watch, links down below.