there's no question that gaming computers have gotten unreasonably hot, but cooling them doesn't have to be expensive or janky. to prove it, i bought this loot box of water cooling components off of ebay. the last time that i bought stuff off of ebay for water cooling, it was expensive and terrible. and this is so much worse. what have you done? i have done something very smart. see, you bought individual no-name components while i, the savvy deal hunter, picked up a mixed lot of premium components. we are going to see who gets the last laugh. yeah, he's laughing now. yes, i am. hetzner. along with high-performance cloud servers, hetzner also offers managed servers, which they recently upgraded with improved hardware. so focus on running your business and let hetzner take care of the rest by using code ltt23 to get 20 euros off hetzner cloud. we're gonna have that linked down below. d5 pump, anyone? where's the rest of it? shiny fittings. biomatter. second pump. my ebay water cooling might've been janky, but i at least had everything that you need to cool a computer, do you? i have some of these things. i have two pumps. no, but it's not a pump if you can't use it. well, i have two times one half. he's mad because he knows i'm not wrong. no, but it is. in all seriousness, i think we're gonna have most of this stuff. we just need to do a quick inventory. and we've got tons of options for cpu blocks. one, two, two and a half. and imagine we wanted to run three-way sli. how would we do so without this handy manifold? or four-way, or two-way, or five-way. that's four-way. had you looked at this before we started? because i think this whole thing might've been a mistake. oh yeah, what are these? why do we have so many? don't know, alex. so basically i bought a shit mix of fittings. oh. did we at least lowball the guy? we paid 275 plus shipping. at least it's not the worst deal i got on some old tech crap lately. you know that we already have buckets of these exact same fittings from when you used to do water cooling stuff. well, this is gonna be a challenge, alex. yeah, thanks. we still have to cool a system with it. we don't even have a pump. we have pieces of pump. all messing with me aside, we need to start checking stuff off that list. and the first one is our cpu block. we've got a few options here. we have two unassembled blocks that could be missing mid plates or other pieces, but we've also got two fully assembled cpu blocks in various states of disrepair. maybe we each disassemble one and see which one's in the best shape. sure. don't be a tool. oh, come on now. those are nice looking fittings. well, my block seems to be not only intact, but actually pretty clean. that o-ring needs some grease. i wouldn't touch it. it might fall apart. oh, we have some on our motherboard. since we didn't wanna risk any of our healthiest hardware, we've borrowed the sub-zero prepped board from the cities skylines 2 pc. i don't know what's worse, the fact that this is so grungy and corroded, or the fact that it's the best one out of all of them. does buddy never learn and put proper additive in his loop? it's not hard. like this looks like it has paint in it. do you know what the heck this is? we have a lot of them. yes, it must be this. oh. yeah, i'm not gonna lie. this is not going well. the good news is we have a fully functioning cpu block with mounting hardware. the bad news is that mounting hardware is for a last gen socket. okay, i was gonna say we don't. you're not planning to finish filming this today, are you? no, we're going until we can't anymore, which is gonna be very soon, it seems. we could at least sort our fittings and decide on a tubing size. i think that we need to use these ones. the problem with that is we only have six of these. yeah, we can use multiple tubing sizes. i guess that's true. if the rule is that we're to use as much of our ebay bounty as we can, then we'll have to use at least a couple of fittings that fit this tubing. yeah. we better clean it first. there's actually stuff in there. yeah. the cpu block looks good, although as i expected, the mounting holes don't line up. fixing that won't be too hard when we have a cnc router. for the gpu, same sort of thing. the block itself, not too difficult. yeah, we can just use another cpu block. boom. yeah. got them. make a new mounting for it. and i also have an interesting idea for memory cooling. are we thinking the same thing? take this right here, some stop fittings. oh, that's actually not what i was thinking at all. my idea was much worse. take collars of compressions, grind one side down flat, and then just start mounting them on things as heat sinks. yeah, but there's so much more to cool, alex. the memory's kind of all that matters though. you just put in a fan and the rest will be fine. ah, yes. we can remove fittings now. oh, that's way too much. alex, that's gonna get all in the loop. no, that's fine. it's not fine. yeah, i think she's done. okay, so we should have a failed pile then. just... like, what is this? i don't know. we have a bunch of that thread, like this right here, which is not g quarter. and i have no clue what it is. i know what this is. this goes into a radiator. oh, like that stupid one that i brought to your house the other day. yes. no, not like that. oh, not like that? no, it's part of the radiator. it's a removable piece that the fitting threads into and it just is like part of the rad and it's on there when it ships. oh, wait, that's how it worked. okay, one side's in, one side's out. and then what happens is it goes into the manifold, flows through these fittings that have holes all over them. okay? then that goes through the fitting into the block out the other side. so it's for four-way sli. what a stupid waste of engineering. what a stupid waste of money in 2023. in fairness to me, i'm pretty sure these fittings are worth like $40 each. boom. nice. somehow i get the feeling he's not being sincere. how did this get on here? all right, do we think these work? hey, what did i tell you? good old reliable d5. okay, what about the other one? this one might be dead. it's been through a lot. we can see that much. okay, audience, i gotta be real with you. i made a big mistake. i bought a thing off ebay too that i thought would solve all of our problems, but it turns out it's actually just complete junk. anyway. hey, linus, i've got a great solution. you know how you didn't manage to get a radiator, a reservoir, or a pump? well, from ebay. wait, you went ebay shopping? oh, it does stink. it's a resurator. and not the one i was supposed to get either. yeah, i asked you to get the blue one. that was for a completely different thing. it's not looking good. for those of you who aren't familiar, the resurator lineup from zalman was a combination reservoir, radiator, pump solution that for the first generation was passive, and for the second generation, integrated what i believe is a 140 millimeter fan. the idea was that because most cases back then didn't have proper mounting points for any of these things, you could just take this, plunk it down next to your tower, or under a tree as it were, and have it take care of all the cooling. it's not a bad idea, even today. and functionally, it's very similar to what we did with whole room water cooling, where you've got all the blocks and you collect the heat, and then you go dissipate it somewhere else. well, the outlet's in the fan. enough cringe youtuber reacting though. let's get this thing cracked open and find out how much of it we can use. well, linus has a look at that. we can have a look at all of the progress that we've made with his absolute box of garbage. first of all, all of the fittings are nice and sorted. look at that. also, we got really lucky with our cpu mounting because even though we don't have lga 1700 brackets, you can just use an old one and put some nuts on the back, and it actually works just fine. our gpu block was a lot more difficult though. so justin, who's our new fabricator, has done an excellent job at creating this little bit that goes in the center. so we've got our gpu here, and then normally where you'd have our mounting little bracket thing, we have a mounting bracket still, and also vrm coolers that on the final one have a bunch of little fins. it's in there right now. all of which sounds really great. if only things were going that well on this side. we've got some serious corrosion here, dude. look at this. oh, what even is that? this is a time when the industry hadn't figured out that it doesn't matter what kind of additives you put in the loop. you never mix copper and aluminum. oh, and that ignores that it's much more disgusting on the inside than it is on the outside. oh, 100% owned by a smoker. there still might be a chance it works though. like what kind of a pump is that? a ddc maybe? no, actually it's a chinese pump of some sort. i don't know who makes it. i knew it as the db1, because dtek, defunct now, was the first one to bring that pump to market. it actually moves a pretty decent amount of water and it's very quiet. okay. it's not very reliable though. huh. that's not the end of the world though. we probably have a couple of these kicking around if we need to replace it to get this thing up and running. i'm far more worried about if there are any issues with this board. also, what does this even do? sensor, flow, that's self-explanatory. oil? what is the oil lead doing? my guess is that it's some sort of an alarm for when you're running low on water. do you think they borrowed this board from something else entirely? maybe. that would be hilarious. you know what? why don't we take a quick... oh, ew, ew. why would you do that? stop. just throw it away. ew! oh, i got it on my hand. you got it on yourself. oh! it's all over my arm. oh, that's from inside the fitting. this is a really expensive fitting. huh. this is from colder. oh, can we use the other side? do we have that around here somewhere? this one snapped off inside this, so i'm thinking no. that would have been really nice. these are high quality quick disconnects. the good news is i got a lot of quick disconnects in my bundle. not such a bad value now. yep. i'm just gonna get all of this disconnected. wow, this is a really cool front panel. it's got a volume knob. yes. which actually makes sense because this was marketed as a silent cooling solution. so that's not the volume of water that it's moving. it's the sound that it is making, which i guess is directly correlated with the volume of water that it's moving. it's a double entendre. also, we've got a fan speed monitor, flow rate monitor, and some stuff. oh, not gonna lie. before he started rolling, i lifted this off for a second to kind of prep what i was gonna say. the smell that hit me. i believe that's really bad. was otherworldly. i'm gonna take it off. this is really gross. why? that was a mistake. oh! sorry, glenn. part of the job. come get the closeup. no, no, use the zoom. use the zoom, brother. holy crap, alex. yeah? that thing you're poking at, that's supposed to be an inlet. what? it's completely clogged. oh no. it just looks like a little spot of corrosion on the inside. but that's supposed to be a tube. oh dear. oh wow. this piece of tubing just broke off. i never reviewed this before, so i didn't really think about how they achieved it, but i remember reading that even the fins on the outside were supposed to passively contribute to the cooling capacity. look at this. oh wow. there are water tubes built into the housing on both sides, so it actually transfers some heat to the outside. so i think the idea was that at idle, you could dissipate everything you need to, and then under load, the fans would kick in and start drawing air through these radiators. so cool. there's also some mold, it looks like. what game did the owner of this computer play? tarkov. oh, nice. that's beautiful right there. you know, alex, i've had a lot of people ask me, hey, what's the point of the stubby screwdriver? exhibit a. i think you guys are gonna enjoy this thing once i get it out. you might even tell me, wow, linus, that's pretty rad. your last pun was good and that one wasn't. no! this is a very old, inefficient radiator design with just the one tube going through the whole thing like this rather than all the little skinny fins. if it wasn't for the proprietary mount, i wouldn't even bother salvaging this thing. she sure cleans up nice though, hey? oh yeah. what a contrast. oh, it's leaking. after about an hour, i have the reserator completely apart. now i just get to spend the rest of the day cleaning it all up. this is the point of the build where things get really high stakes because if we screw up, instead of just destroying some rancid old hardware we bought on ebay, we will be destroying real good hardware. i am looking at, wow, 13900k on an asrock z790 taichi light motherboard, which, okay, is a little worse for the wear after we took it sub-zero before, but it still works great. will it after your alcohol infused block here? you've seen what it did. oh, wow. that's why you don't do that. it's clean though. this is the one that we did in alcohol and it also looks awful. all right. time for some thermal group then. we need to pick fittings. i could go with bent boys like this. i could go with convoluted boys like this, but we all know i was going to end up. oh no, don't do that. with these. oh no. i can't get these to thread in. oh, please don't lift it by that. what? no, it's good. it's good. oh, dang it. okay, fine. say. enzo? sure. while linus continues spending 15 minutes installing two fittings on our cpu block, i'm going to put together our gpu block. it is also a cpu block, but now with this. look at it. normally you wouldn't have thermal paste in your block assembly, but we're going to, because i want to try and get as much heat transfer from our little block right here to our memory coolers that are on the mounting bracket. i have our gpu block ready to install. now i just need, we could use some thermal pads. totally sure. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. not that stuff. this'll work better. we've used that stuff before. it's a nightmare to clean up. can we try a two millimeter pad and see if it mashes down? yeah. it's not basically that. yep. this is the graphics card with a thousand watt bios and no thermal limits. yeah. we want thermal limits when we turn this on. okay. alex, what's the plan for cooling the rest of the board components, like the vrms? pointing a fan at it. i think alex put this perfectly a couple of minutes ago. it's all the hassle of working on a crappy old car, but with computers. we haven't had to angle grind off old rusted bolts though yet. so that's a plus. hey, you're not done with that reserator yet. there's still time. more distilled water. i'm thinking this for my tubing run. huh? what do you want to put in here for a test? some of these fittings obviously need some help. yeah. first test run. here we go. first test run. all the things. ah, geez, 'kay. holy shnikes. boy, is it ever. oh yeah. check this out, glenn. this is awesome. it's smokin'. that's an old reference. okay. oh. this is a bit of a big, not to mention essential item to use for our test, but i kind of want to know if the ultrasonic cleaner will do anything inside this radiator. now it's time to find out if our one complete pump actually works. it is very submersible. what did you, still? i mean, you took it apart. well, i tried to take it apart and then realized it's just epoxy. great. yeah. oh, hey, there it goes. oh my god. i can't believe it. old faithful. oh, i'm so excited. oh, wow. i can actually touch this now without feeling disgusting. yeah, you can lick it even. maybe even with my tongue. we both went to the same place with it. the best part is this is the only bit that i didn't actually clean. i just like quickly wiped it. really? yeah. there's two things that i'm not totally sure about and they're both back here. first of all, these connectors. yeah. it's gonna leak all over the place, probably. and second, we currently do not have power, but that should be fairly easy. i'm thinking we just cut this, wago lever nuts, have a little thingy right here and it goes to molex. sure. sorry, this video is just like, we're barely here at this point. not this video, this project. it started stupid and got way stupider. so many man hours of opportunity cost. i mean, we could have reviewed 14th gen. yep. but we didn't, we did this. there's water coming out of it and we haven't even put water in it yet. oh, cool. see, it's fine. oh yeah, it is. give it the dab. where did all that come from? from hydrogen and oxygen atoms. i think we just fill it with water and- oh, come on, you can at least aim at the hole. what, i got it in there eventually. moment of truth, let's go. fan spins. oh, hi there. what? you mad, bro? i think the pump might be running dry. oh, that's probably bad. why don't we power cycle it? that's where the inlet of the pump is? yes. that's stupid. how are you supposed to fill it? great question. it's definitely the pump struggling. it just feels like i'm pulling vacuum. i wonder what's clogged. hold on, i have an idea. that's not a good idea. my bet's on that it's plumbed up wrong. my bet is that these stupid extrusion things, even though they did stay in the ultrasonic cleaner for a really long time, are completely clogged. it's clear, alex. what? straight shot through. huh, ultrasonic cleaner works great. we may have to reevaluate our little hypothesis here. what just happened? it just went through the pump. it was fine. exactly. why? ready? oh, yeah, it works. okay. let's seal that back up then. really promising, honestly. okay, it just works now. kind of a bummer that flow indicators have gone out of style. there've been a lot of times that i've wished i had one in my machine. not gonna lie, i'm kind of thrilled this thing works. it just feels good after the condition it was in and seeing it now just completely functioning. it's kind of cool. satisfying. yeah. i figured it out. what? kink. i think we can just manage the tubes a little bit better and then they don't kink. nice. no replacement necessary. it just works. no alarms. got the flow rate. got the fan speed. i guess we could talk about this case. it's the brand new nzxt h6 flow. it has this weird cutoff corner thing and three rgb fans. we have our, as promised, quick disconnects here. the only problem is we don't have any tubing that fits in this. cool. we're just parallelizing, you know? adding extra points of failure. no reason other than to get value out of all these things i bought. moment of truth, ladies and gentlemen. oh, i did it. hey, there it is. a plus, boom, there it is. no! oh, that's a lot. oh, they're all leaking, great. you know what? these y fittings, probably not a great idea because they have o-rings in them. three, and they're old. more like old rings. anyway, we'll just keep on topping it up. 35 degrees. hell yeah. whoa, not bad. okay, they're 45 now. don't worry about that. minor details. i do not expect this to be the most scientific thing ever, but i expect us to find out if our system is capable of running on our, oh no, oh heavens no. oh, oh god, no. it's fine. it's thermal throttling. it is, but that's also fine. like, no matter what you do. you can hook it up to a chiller, which we have done, and it still will immediately thermal throttle. we're all the way below 320 watts. 320 watts is pretty good. is it? okay, all right. 320 watts is what we're getting here. oh, it's still going down. it's going down, alex. the water's only gonna get hotter from here. oh, wait, wait, wait, wait. oh, wait, yes. hey, there goes that flow rate. okay, hold on, hold on, wait, wait, wait, wait. okay, what's happening? whoa, hey, there goes the power. 340, let's go! good job, little buddy. wow, there's like stuff floating at the top of this. there's no question. we are getting consistently higher power consumption when we kick this thing into high gear. i love it. oh yeah. this little bit right here, guys, we turned it down to shoot a b-roll shot of alex turning it up. nice. okay, but can we game? graphics. overdrive, sure. overdrive. okay, gpu power is at 115 watts. hmm, that's not a whole lot. that doesn't seem right. no. do you remember how you said that those two millimeter thermal pads would be fine? yes. i don't think they are. do you know what it's time for? oh, no. oh. but what you're about to do is so wrong. you're not even trying to be careful, are you? what, we need like at least a millimeter of the stuff. that is so much more than a millimeter, it's not even funny. time to fire her back up. do i get to declare my purchase a success if this works? no. are you gonna try and declare your purchase a success? no. damn. 51 degrees. okay, you're sure it's not a success? cause it seems like a success right now. it's a success in the sense that we cooled a computer. yeah. but we went into this being like, we found a really cool way for you to save money on your water cooler. yeah. and you spent $300. i spent $300. justin spent a day fabricating. there was five hours of machine time, two days of cleaning this thing, and what like, maybe two days of us getting it all working? woo! but it runs really well. oh, beautiful. vrms are like 41 degrees. they're just loving life. gpu's right happy. i'm not even gonna deny that. we're turboing to 2.85 gigahertz, running at 54 degrees celsius. like this is exemplary actually. the loudest thing is the coil whine on the 4090. yeah, i didn't even think about that. this whole thing is dead silent. man, it goes to show you, why did we abandon gpu die only blocks and, you know, unisyncs and heatsinks and stuff? this is so much more economical. yeah. you know, if you don't have to fabricate a thing for it. minor details though. minor details. like this minor segue to our sponsor. delete me. are you feeling down because your data is being taken and passed around by faceless companies? well, cheer up. some of them have faces. no, just kidding. delete me is here to help you out. they will help you find hundreds of online profiles that are sharing your personal information and obliterate it. because that information could be used by scammers to bombard you with robocalls and spam emails, or in more extreme cases, it could even lead to identity theft or fraud. what we know it will never lead to is nice birthday wishes. even though they all know what your birthday is. removing all this information yourself can be done, but it would take hours when delete me software and team can shorten that time to just minutes. so why? on average, delete me finds and removes over 2000 pieces of data for a customer in their first two years of using the company's service. and now those customers get to relax with all the free time that would have been used up rejecting robocalls. so if you want to regain control of your personal information, go to join delete me.com slash linus tech tips and use code ltt for 20% off. if you guys enjoyed this video, you might enjoy the time that alex and i hooked a computer up to a car radiator. yep, same energy. or the time that we water cooled with ebay s*** last time. oh yeah, that too.