- three years. it was three long years
ago that i first laid eyes on the technology that
would put oled in its place. and i've waited since then for what would eventually
become the hisense u9dg. this is no normal tv instead of one lcd panel
filtering the white back light turning it into the vibrant
content that you enjoy. the u9dg has two lcd panels. in theory, this unique
design gives it the best of all worlds near perfect
blacks like an oled and vibrant peak brightness
for the best possible home hdr experience. and it's already
discontinued that's terrific. because it means that you might be able to score a deal on the remaining stock, which appears to be now on clearance, making this video
interesting for two reasons. first, to get deep under
the hood of a display tech the world may never see again and second to maybe score a deal perhaps. oh and a third to learn about our sponsor - glasswire. thanks to glasswire for
sponsoring this video. keep track of the weirdest
stuff that's connecting to your pc. even when you are not using it. if a strange device joins your wifi, you'll be notified instantly. get 25% off today using
code linus at the link below - the big problem with
displaying hdr content on lcds is that even the best ones can't fully block out the
back light behind them making black look like
more of a faded out gray. and the solution (mumbles)
has been to divide up the back light into multiple zones that can
be individually controlled to darken or brighten the image depending on the content in front. this works okay, but even on many led tvs with a thousand plus dimming zones, the bloom or halo effect
around bright objects is almost always visible to the naked eye. but what if you had 2,000,000
local dimming zones? this one doesn't, it's only got 132, but in front of those
dimming zones is a 1080p ips black and white lcd panel
that acts has a light filter. and then in front of that
is a 4k ips color panel to output our final 75 inch image at refresh rates of up to 120 hertz. doesn't that add a lot more cost and complexity you might ask, yes. for everything packed into it, the u9dg is impressively slim but hisense says that the bonding process to fuse the panels together was extremely difficult to perfect. and it clearly contributes to the shocking 42 kilogram curb weight that resulted in our first
sample being damaged in shipping. the good news is that it took years but it was worth the wait. the two panel solution gives
us an unbelievable amount of dynamic range on an lcd. i mean, these are nearly oled like blacks, less than 0.01 nits and
it still reaches as high as roughly 1100 nits in a 5% window. and the best part is the
fineness of that control. the 1080 monochrome panel doesn't quite match the
resolution of the 4k colored one but if you need a pinhole
of light in the darkness it'll block most of
the back light strength before it ever reaches the color panel. and with over 2,000,000
effective dimming zones the halo effect is nearly imperceptible unless you put your eyeball to the glass. for reference we compared the u9dg to a cheaper oled and a nicer mini led. and even though the mini led
had a whopping thousand zones of local dimming on a
smaller 65 inch panel the 75 inch hisense was hands down the best performer for hdr content. did i even mention yet
that it has a quantum.film and supports dolby vision? so unless you're in a light
controlled environment where the oled really
shines, it's just wow. and the u9dg is pretty color accurate too giving us an average
lte of 5.1 and imax hdr and just 2.3 in sdr filmmaker mode, similar to our lg mini led and
way ahead of our (mumbles), though it too is still pretty respectable for a home display. a quick note for the hisense though if you want to get this
crazy dynamic range while maintaining color accuracy you'll want to use imax mode
with local dimming set to high. now, at this point, everything is proceeded as i had foreseen but my big question for
hisense from day one has been, isn't this going to add a
bunch of processing delay and totally (mumbles)
the gaming experience. to find out we had to hook it up. along with ethernet, usb,
rca, a headphone jack and optical output, the io was solid with two hdmi 2.1 ports, one with earc and the u9dg supports
variable refresh rate with (mumbles) free sync, as well as automatic low latency mode which should kick in with
any supported input device. that's promising for gaming. but unless the pixel response times of the two panels are darn near identical you could end up with some
really weird motion artifacts. now, hisense says they solved this, getting both of them to a
matching eight milliseconds but keeping them synced up does require some extra work courtesy of their capable soc with t-con or timing controller. we used an (mumbles) with an rtx 3080 on our three tvs to test latency. and unfortunately the hisense
does indeed lose handily to the competition. it's not the worst we've seen and they were at least upfront about it. eight milliseconds on
the box should tell you that there'll be noticeable
ghosting or motion blur. but as long as the scene,
isn't moving too fast your games will look gorgeous like our new towels at lttstore.com. at this point, some of
you must be wondering if this performs as well as it does then why is this the only tv on the market using this two panel tech and why is it already discontinued? well, first of all this tv is relatively new,
but the technology isn't and there's a commercial mastering monitor from sony that actually
uses the same idea. the bvm-hx310, it came out in 2019 and
cost a whopping $30,000 at launch keeping it firmly in the hands of the hollywood elite, kind
of like chris rock's face. it can also do a thousand nits full screen and it has insane color
accuracy for film colorists. by contrast, pun intended the u9dg was always
intended to undercut oled for the consumer market. and it launched at just
$3 to $3.5 thousand. that's roughly a 10th of the price but now, mere months later you can already find it for
just two grand at best buy. thanks to strong competition,
both from mini led and new oled from both lg and samsung as for why they're not being made anymore. our best guess is that it's
due to production complexity and a competitive landscape
that looks dramatically different today than
it did three years ago. when i first saw this demonstrated. so with sony's mastering
display being forever out of reach of the general public and dual panel tech off
of hisense public roadmap the u9dg might make more sense in a tech museum than it
does in your living room. but if you can find it
for a clearance price and you need a huge tv, mostly
for movies with a little bit of light gaming, it's actually
a pretty solid choice. and the builtin google
assistant, chromecast and alexa are all nice bonuses, just like this word from our sponsor. - privacy, privacy.com
lets you buy things online using virtual cards rather
than your real ones. and with mother's day coming up you're likely to be ordering from some places that you have
never ordered from before. so why not keep your identity and your bank info safe while
you're shopping for flowers you can set spending limits, pause (mumbles) cards
at any time you want. and if you're the victim of
a fraudulent transaction, privacy.com automatically
declines the transaction and notifies you immediately you can even sign up for free trials and offers without
worrying about forgetting to cancel the subscription. with privacy.com. you can generate a one time card number to
sign up anonymously and safely closing the card as
soon as it goes through. so no more jumping through
customer service hoops and hopes with canceling
or losing money on apps you never meant to spend on. privacy.com offers different plans depending on your goals from
cash back to team plans. and you can learn more by
heading to privacy.com/linus where you can sign up for an account. new customers will
automatically get $5 to spend on their first purchase. - if you guys enjoyed this video check out our qd-oled video called samsung just made
everything else obsolete. and they did. we're already seeing the
follow from it, bye bye u9dg.