- these days entry-level gpus launch for nearly the price of consoles. partly, because cheaper
consoles are available, but also because gpus are more expensive. nvidia's new geforce rtx 3050, obviously isn't going to change that. but the hope is that it's
going to be good enough. i'll give it to you straight right now while you still have the chance. this card is not bad
if you need a gpu today and you don't mind rgb. and we'll have the link
below when they're available. stick around though, and i'll tell you why
if you have a card now you might not want to be so hasty. - thanks to crucial for
sponsoring this video. step up your game with
crucial's p5 plus nvme ssd. it can be installed in a pc, and you can even easily
upgrade your new playstation 5 with up to two terabytes
of additional storage, that also comes with a five-year warranty. get yours today using the link down below. (upbeat music) - the rtx 3050 is not a surprise on paper. you've got rt and tensor cores, you've got a little more than
two thirds of the cuda cores of the rtx 3060, eight gigs of memory on a 128 bit bus, and you've got the nvenc encoder engine, then more than two
display outputs to boot. compared to the radio on rx 6500 xt, amds mobile gpu cause
playing as a desktop card, the extra $50 doesn't seem
like a big price to pay for all of those benefits. how much would you pay
for a dedicated video and coding accelerator if
your gpu didn't have one or extra display outs? now, that glowing endorsement for industry standard features aside, we do have to test whether
this is truly worth the extra spend. and thankfully, our
test bench is still warm from our rx 6500 xt testing. we'll be throwing that gpu in along with some choice
selections from both teams to see if more memory and then encoder is all the
rtx 3050 brings to the table. in f1 2021 at least, so far so good. and not only does it beat the rx 6500 xt, but it also comes pretty close
to matching the gtx 1660 ti. a gpu that launched for $30 more and lacks ray tracing capabilities. speaking of, the ray tracing
performance ain't bad either. easily pulling double the
frames the 6500 xt can drip out. and coming surprisingly
close to the rx 6600 in the tier above at the same settings. forza horizon 4 brings more good news. even pulling a winner over the 1660 ti. although amds contender
isn't far off here. suggesting that this title isn't sensitive to memory bandwidth. not at these settings anyway. and amd really did drop the ball with the rx 6500 xt is
four-lane pci express connection and 64 bit memory configuration. far cry six without ray tracing
display similar results. with the rx 6500 xt's performance close, but not quite matching the rtx 3050. while getting absolutely creamed to the incident, we turn on ray tracing, thanks to both the
gpu's extra video memory and the difference in
optimization of nvidia's rt cores versus amd's ray accelerators. hitman 3, he didn't stutter
for the rtx 3050 either. and we've once again, got
the highest result out of other cards in class,
including the 1660 ti. although it's worth pointing out that if you're playing it's stealthy, hitman doesn't need
twitchy reaction times. what does is cs go and it's here we see
it fall behind the pack with the cheaper at msrp, gtx 1660 super pulling slightly ahead, thanks to its wider 192 bit memory bus. just like you can pull
ahead with a desk pad from lttstore.com. it doesn't have any wider, we've got all sizes and a new configurator to help
you choose. steven got rgb. if we include the ray tracing results, the rtx 3050 works out
to be roughly 92% faster than the rx 6500 xt. but as we've said, ray tracing, isn't something you'll want to
enable on this class of gpus without upscaling algorithms. like nvidia's dlss which
this card does support. if we look instead at the
non-ray trace performance, it works out to be just about 23% lead. which is in near lockstep
with the difference in price between the two cards. it's almost like they planned it this way. the performance is
pretty much spot on with the gtx 1660 ti to. and since it was a point of
contention with the 6500 xt, here's how the 3050 does on gen 3. it maintains within about
10% of normal performance on benchmarks that dripped
up the 6500 xt most last time around. which isn't too surprising
since it's got those extra four lanes of pci
express bandwidth to work with. productivity is a little more cut and dry. the rtx 3050 is ability to
use rt cores for rendering and its inclusion of a media engine easily puts it at double the
performance of the 6500 xt and 33% more than the 1660 ti. while productivity needs
vary from person to person, this puts the overall average score at a 66% performance
advantage over the 6500 xt. if we exclude ray trace gaming. if you want to make it the
fairest possible comparison and exclude blender, it
works out to roughly 30%. any way you look at it, wins a win. ends with the 6500 xt, first party founder's edition
style cards don't exist. so thermals will vary from board to board. our evga xc card hit a peak of 74 degrees, which puts it at a little
under the rx 6500 xt peak. though it's a wash on average. the cooler is actually a little underbuilt compared to our same
cooler on the rtx 3060 xc, so keep that in mind as we
move on to the power graphs. it's here, that we see
the radio on 6500 xt is significantly more efficient
than nvidia's new card. although the rtx 3050
impressively draws less power than the gtx 1660 super. and not by a little bit either. and while you might have
a tough time finding it in the core clocks graph, the line and therefore the clock stability is as smooth as any
other in the lineup here. which shouldn't be too surprising considering the thermal results. this card seems to have a
bit of headroom to play with if you wanted to push the power target, but your mileage will of course
vary depending on the card. now the problem many of you may have is, yeah, that's great and all, but this is supposed
to be a 50 series card. and it's priced between
the gtx 1660 super and ti. that's where it gets murky. there are many reasons why graphics cards are getting more expensive these days, and the unfortunate reality is it's possible that amd
really did scrape the barrel on the rx 6500 xt to hit
that $200 price point. if so, we've now seen the
compromises that have to be made to hit that price point that
we once considered affordable. and there really is no going back. that leaves me with conflicting
opinions about the rtx 3050. on one hand, it delivers performance wise and is exactly what we expected. a further cut down and peer gpu, and the first time in the 50 series card, we're getting rt and tensor cores. it's the rtx 2050 that we never
got with no major drawbacks. and because it's a down bend ga 106, the same gpu that's in the rtx 3060, these are probably reject chips
that have been sitting idle this whole time. it led some supply relief, at
least until they sell through. on the other hand, it's
the rtx 2050, we never got. and they're calling it rtx 3050.
with a 60 series price tag. this rtx tags began with
the first rtx cards in 2018. and that was well before the
current scalp apocalypse. i worry that there's no
incentive to reverse this trend. even if manufacturing costs
were returned to normal, like say gpu mining ended today, the reality is that
both supply constraints stretching until 2024 by some estimates and the sheer pent up demand
from gamers and professionals for high performance gpu is
just going to keep prices high. it's not just one thing. a lot of people will probably
try to get an rtx 3050 at msrp for new builds. and if they do, i think
they'll be happy with them. but the keyword there is try. intel can't enter the game soon enough, and neither can amds expected
desktop already in a 2 apus. get subscribed by the way, because we are totally
going to be reviewing both of those things and both
are going to be disruptive in their own ways. in the meantime, maybe it's time to lean on
one pc gaming's greatest strengths. and embrace it's
unparalleled back catalog. - thanks to mine for
sponsoring this video. mine is the smart data assistant
that helps you discover where your data is and helps
you keep it where you want it. with mine, you can
exercise your data rights and reclaim your right to be forgotten by asking services that you no longer use to delete your information. with how many data breaches
there are these days, i don't know about you guys, but i don't want any
companies that i'm not using holding on to any of my data. if you sign up, mine will let you know how many companies are
holding your information. we ran our email and almost 250 companies are holding our data, including many services
holding our financial data that our team hadn't used in years. mine helps send an official
data deletion request through your inbox, so
the company can delete the personal data they have stored. mine also helps companies
with the ultimate goal of simplifying and improving consumers online privacy experience. so sign up at saymine.com
using the link down below and own your data. - thanks for watching guys. this got a little
depressing at the end there, so why not check out our
video on splitting a gpu between multiple virtual machines? it might just be the answer for
gaming couples and families.