(grunts) - an odyssey neo g9? she's a beaut. - if the samsung odyssey g9 is the mother of all gaming monitors, then this, this right here is her grandma. this is the odyssey neo g9 and samsung sponsored this video where we're going to be
taking it for a test drive. it's got everything that you liked about the original odyssey g9. it's got a 240 hz refresh rate, high resolution, g-sync/freesync
compatible panel, obviously it's 49 freaking
inches diagonally, but, with an extra trick up its sleeve. this one has a miniled backlight. and if it is anything like
samsung's qled neo tvs, i am ready to be really impressed. (intro music) i feel lucky just to have one of these, let alone doing a sponsored video of it. the g9 was basically impossible to get the entire time that it
was the ruler of the roost. and samsung seems to
have taken a bit of a, "hey, if it ain't broke,
don't fix it" approach here. that's why we're seeing the
same aggressive 1000r curve. i mean, look how freaking
curved, this thing is. absolutely incredible. the same rated 1 millisecond response time and the same 5120 by 1440 resolution. that's a great balance
between being dense enough that you're not going
to see individual pixels sticking out like a sore thumb, but also somewhat reasonable to drive with a modern graphics card, though, you will be treating yourself to a 3070, or greater in order to
properly power this thing, probably 3080. but hey, you treated yourself to a neo g9, so, you can handle it. aw. - love that the screws
are already pre threaded into the holes for me. that's really nice. oops. okay. that set up process
really wasn't that involved other than "don't take
the panel out of the box until you've attached the stand to it." (linus yells manly) - see you later box. oh, i forgot how heavy this boy was. oh. - i mean everything's in here. 49" display, miniled backlight, the power supply is internal. it's just a lot of gear in there. (relaxed electronic music) actually, before we move
around to the front, the cosmetic ring is the same, but the rgb lighting at the back can now synchronize with what's
being displayed on screen. so it can actually kind of put a glow on the wall behind the monitor that reflects what's
happening in the game, which is kind of cool, if you're into that sort of thing. also before we turn it around, i feel we did a bit of a disservice, just talking about the miniled upgrade, because, we've got display port 1.4 that we already had. that's how we run 240 hertz, 5120 x 1440 with display stream compression. but also now we've got hdmi 2.1. now, i actually don't know
from samsung's materials, if we're going to be able to run full resolution with a single hdmi link, but we're certainly gonna try it. it's also got a built in usb 3.0 hub, and... that's about it. so let's go ahead and get all that stuff plugged in, and cable managed. cable management's pretty slick. got your headphone
hanger back here as well. boop. well, something like that, although this thing is so big. i don't know that i would wanna reach around behind it
to get my headphones. just like that. i love it. just be careful with the
cable management, right? because this is a height
adjustable monitor. so you don't want to have
too much tension on this, because you might end up pulling the plugs out and
with a locking connector like display port, there is the potential
that you could damage your cable or the socket. (monitor hits the wall) oops. oh my goodness. right out of the gate and fired up then, but that doesn't necessarily mean that it's running optimally. so if we go into our, not
that, display settings, we can see that we're actually
running it, only 144 hertz. i don't quite know why that is yet, but i promise you, i will figure it out, if i had to guess, i
would say it's because the hdmi connection is
what got picked up first. it's got a nipple style
navigation for the menu. so we're just gonna go
into our sources here. i definitely prefer
this. and you can see... yep. we picked up our htmi link first. so it looks like that might
be limited to a 144 hertz. still respectable, but display port is gonna be a better experience. i know why, i didn't plug
dp in on the other side. there it is, it has picture in picture, and picture by picture. how handy is that? so many desktop monitors
don't support that anymore. i can see why they do it. 'cause you could totally just have your desktop over here and then have your laptop
set to another input or something like that. and you know, just have the... use it as two monitors. not its wheelhouse. that's not the best possible use of a display of this caliber, but it's definitely there. oh, so the refresh rate
toggle in the menu. i can see why they would
default it to 120 though, because you have to have a
graphics card that supports display stream compression
in order to run it at 240. oh, oh. yeah, i'm just gonna
unplug that hdmi cable. got confused again. beautiful. oh. silky smooth. of course that's not new. let's talk miniled. in the original odyssey g9, they had 10 local dimming zones, which means that whenever
you were moving around a bright object on a dark background, say for example, a mouse cursor, you would see enormous halos around it, and they were particularly noticeable when you were viewing them off axis. now they have ramped
that up to 2048 zones. you are still going to see some blue. that's the cold hard truth, but unlike the previous generation model; now, it's only gonna be
applicable to something like an edge case where you've got, oh, i don't know, a black ms paint window, and you're moving a
white icon around on it, compared to before, when it was actually noticeable in content. actually, you know what? the off-axis performance
is not bad either. it's better horizontally
than it is vertically. but given that you'll normally be sitting in front of it like this, i can see why they would
have tuned it that way. you know what we should do? we got to turn off the studio lights. - [plouffe] yeah totally - yeah, let's kill them. no, no. we're trying to make
it look bad right now. here comes a worst case scenario. i know, i know it's sponsored by samsung, but people gotta know
what they're buying, so. yeah. okay, perfect. so what you can also see here is that there's a bit
of a trail behind it, so you can actually see how they've tuned the reactivity of the individual zones. so it's fast, but it's not instantaneous. this is an absolutely worst case scenario. tiny white dot moving
around on a black screen, but people should know
what they're getting. that being said, though, you can really see the difference samsung's new panel makes on the neo g9, when you put it next to an
edge lit panel like this one. straight on from a
reasonable viewing distance, it's much harder to make out of it. that's pretty impressive. no, andy, i'm fairly certain that that is the dumbest idea ever. he's like, "hey, you know, it'd be a good use case for this monitor? you game on half of it and then you'd make the
other half just white. and then you don't have to get
a light for your streaming." that's... - [andy] it works. it's soft, it's big. - it would work. no! i do not accept it. he's not serious, you guys. and he knows better than that. man this monitor has
so much dynamic range. that honestly, i feel like when the game plays around and makes the scene respond kind of like your eye would. so if you look up at the sky, this all kind of goes too dark. it feels unnecessary, it
feels like i could just let my eye do the responding and the monitor could display
pretty much all of it. now, a big contributor to the improvement in image quality over the last generation odyssey g9 is that even though samsung doesn't have a certification to back this up, they're rating the new
neo g9 at 2000 nits. that is double what they
rated the original g9 at, and while it isn't basis
certified, it is vde or verband deutschle elektrotrchniker
institute certified. so this contributes not
just to greater brightness, but when combined with quantum dot color, this should create greater color volume than last year's model as well. plus with all the local dimming zones, you can see very clearly, once we're looking at actual content, you don't see them anymore. like if we have a mouse pursers, sure. it's noticeable. not in actual gameplay. now this is a game that looks absolutely fantastic in hdr. oh, sorry, sorry. sorry. sorry. like, is that not fantastic? racing games? we already did a video
with the last gen one, just showing what an amazing racing game experience you have with a monitor like this, but the immersion is just incredible. like when you're sitting a
reasonable distance from it, it's hard for me to
host the video from here just because it reflects
all the sound back at me. but when you're sitting a
reasonable distance from it, it takes up probably a solid
80% of your field of view. there's nothing short of going to a head mounted display that is going to achieve
that, the way this does. and then you don't get the resolution. it's very screen door effect
still by these standards. hdr is definitely
working, but doom eternal. yeah. default resolution
of like 640 by 480. not gonna look great
on a display like this. oh boy. here we go. got some performance metrics. at least we got lots of fps's. hey, hey, hey, that's more like it. oh man, this is... yup. very noticeably hdr. for a gritty like ugly brown game, it's like really pretty. aw, look at this. that looks fricking awesome. compared to the last
generation odyssey g9, it's not like this is a
complete game changer. they both offer an outstanding
hdr experience, 240 hertz. essentially half of 5k, right? like it's 5k, but it's mega ultra wide. so if you already have one of those, it's not like you're gonna
swap it out for this. but if you're in the market for an immersive gaming monitor, this, one's got all the
bells, all the whistles, all the kitchen sinks. all those things that people want in their products for whatever reason. why do people want bells,
whistles, and kitchen sinks? - [plouffe] i don't know - it's weird. and you'll find the
link for it down below. thanks again for watching. thanks to samsung for
sponsoring this video and thanks to ltt store
for just having such, outstanding merchandise
set, such fair prices. who else but ltt store would bring you a quality product like this one? (linus does car noises) it's part of the racing experience.