- i like lollipops. - it was $1,000? (cash register jingles) - [linus] that baby looks so alarmed. we really didn't have as much to be excited about back then, did we? we just came across an
absolute nostalgia gold mine. remember maximum pc? no? okay, well, it was really cool and a computer geek staple
the late 90s, early 2000s. and as it turns out, every issue from 1998 to 2008 happens to be available on google
books for our enjoyment. so why don't you join me
on a trip down memory lane? it's gonna be just you, me, adam, and of course, our sponsor. - storyblocks, save time
and money with storyblocks. get studio-quality stock video clips for just a fraction of the cost. check it out today at the link below or at the end of this video. (upbeat theme music) - this is one of the first times the
audience is really gonna get to know you at all, right? - yeah, kind of. i've only really been in a
handful of videos at this point. - i'm looking forward to the difference in reaction between me and adam because in preparing for this video, i was like, "hey, how old are you?" and he goes 27. i'm like, "oh cool, we're
actually not that far, oh." (laughs) i'm 36 almost,
we're 10 years apart. i built my first computer
back in late 2003, early 2004. meaning that right smack dab in the middle of this archive was when i
was drooling over hardware that i could never
possibly hope to afford. meanwhile, adam was
like, "i like lollipops." - i was more of a beyblades kid. i was really into beyblades. - you're really into beyblades? - yeah.
- fantastic, love it. so by the time you built
your first computer, all of this was long gone? - i built my first computer in 2013 after working a summer job. i have pictures of it, actually. - our origin stories are
nearly identical though. that's exactly what i did with
my first summer job money. - we're gonna start with the 2004 issue. every september is when maximum pc would drop
their "dream machine", which is exactly what it sounds like. it's just the mostest, the bestest, and the most expensivest
hardware that you can find. - we haven't even made it past the cover, and it's already story time. one of my supervisors at ncix, and this was actually a
few years later, mind you, but they were my supervisor and they still had this
edition of maximum pc, handed it to me as an example
to prove that my hating on displays on the front of
computer cases was stupid because maximum pc
thought it was the bomb. it's pretty clear i was right, that trend did not take off. this case is made by silverstone, and in my personal opinion, they actually kind of murdered it. this is the tj06? all right, i wanna see it. - "this issue contains
over 35 brutal reviews. can you handle the truth?" will you had to have a hatch so that you could hide your drives? which defeats the whole
purpose of having a display. - that display by the way is touchscreen. so you could play "space
cadet" table with the, i don't know, i don't know. - but it's showing an
xp "bliss" background. - [linus] it's 'cause windows
xp was the operating system of choice back then. - i would love to run windows xp on the front of my computer. ooh, look at that. - wow. you can tell i'm old-school because i see that pile of hardware, and my immediate reaction before i realize that it's all ancient, literal e-waste at this
point is like, "wow." all right, what are we looking
at? did i get the case right? tj03, that wasn't even close. - it was $1,000? - oh yeah, silverstone's premium cases
back then were super expensive. the one yvonne got me as a gift, the tj07 was like 6, $700 case, and i had to put my
own window in the side. no, i didn't, we ended up
spending the extra on the window. - how did they justify that kind of money? cases are dirt cheap now. - well, cases were dirt
cheap back then too, but this was a premium case, and the competition for premium cases with decent features hadn't
even begun to heat up yet. okay, you wanna bring up the xaser line? - xaser? (chuckles)
- do it, i dare you. there you go, right there, that one. this is a similar-era xaser. what year is this article? - this article is 2003.
- 2003, am i good or what? one issue is that aluminum cases had
not gone mainstream yet. i could count on probably
one hand the number of aluminum cases that weren't made by lian li or silverstone, both of whom were boutique
and barely had a presence in north america at all. so a lot of the techniques
that we take for granted to help bring down the cost of aluminum cases just didn't exist or weren't economical yet. are those logitech z-680's? oh, yeah! (linus and adam chuckle) i had me a pair of those. you know what? i could probably dig up a picture of my logitech z-680 setup. the logitech z-680's were the every man's computer surround speakers
because believe it or not, pc surround speakers
were a thing back then. at the top, you had the creative
gigaworks 5.1 or 7.1 configs, you had the klipsch promedia ultra 5.1's, those were so good, and
then the next tier down, logitech came in, disrupted the market, was anywhere from a
third to half the price and delivered a lot of bass. but there was a hiss. that's the reason i returned my 7-680's because i had them close enough to me that that constant hiss, even when they were completely
turned all the way down, it was very annoying. back then, you're
spending $1,000 on a case, $10 on a mouse pad. (adam chuckles) please, if there's something
that affects your performance like a mouse pad does- - [adam] this is their
justification for their mouse pad. - [linus] "whatever piece
of foam and rubber happens to be lying around, but not us. we spend $10." you gotta remember, this
was in the days of early, crappy optical and laser sensors. you do not spend $10 on it
and blow $1,000 on a case. oh yeah, intel pentium 4 560 overclocked. - [adam] oh, yeah. - this is 2004, doesn't the
athlon 64 exist already? - yeah, it says, "the athlon 64 fx-53 is generally
acknowledged to be faster in games," but they
wanted the pcie and ddr2. that's their justification.
(linus sighs) - you know, this is something that the pc enthusiast community and media has never
been able to figure out. all that gamers care is
how many fps they get. does ddr2 get me more fps's if it's paired with a cpu that's not as good? don't buy it, right? yeah.
- this should have absolutely been a socket 939 system if they're going for the best. "fasten your seatbelts. at 500 megahertz, this
baby will blow you away! where's my mother-board?" that baby looks so alarmed. the megaworks 510d, that would be a predecessor to
the gigaworks surround setup that i was talking about
from when i first got into this stuff. "you have two voicemails, five emails, and while you were out, your
joystick made a pass at me." - [adam] 'cause it's a virtual assistant. it's corporate sexual
harassment, that's funny one. - is that a microsoft wave? - classic. - [linus] that was my keyboard
for like three or four years. - [adam] "computer furniture." - "delivered direct to you." can i just say, good riddance
to the keyboard tray? bye-bye! "new to north america, from roland. usb, one cable, pure sound!" i love it! - [adam] i also like this acronym, - i was-
- dtmp. - dtmp, that never took off. (adam chuckles) july, 2002. "surround gaming!" that display setup would weigh
like 200 pounds. (laughs) - [adam] was that even remotely enjoyable because of the bezel size? - nobody did this stuff back in the day. it's like an imax theater for your pc. yeah, i think imax would have
some things to say about that. - we need to get this. - [linus] shut up. this is a foldable- - [adam] i'm pretty sure it's a laptop, and it looks like you could
split the bottom in half? - xentex flip-pad voyager.
- but i'm not sure. - yeah, this is before my time. this is before creative
acquired cambridge soundworks. - creative just kind of
devoured every audio company over the course
- oh yeah. of a few years. - creative was a monster, and desktop pc audio
products, your sound cards, and your midi interfaces and
surround sound speaker setups. it was actually a sizable
chunk of business. if you wanted sound that
didn't completely suck, and i'm not talking, "oh, i detect excellent
dynamics in this track." i'm talking popping and
(hisses) like hissing, and i'm talking buzzing sounds when you move your mouse around, (linus buzzes) like you needed a sound card. "the greatest 100 pc
technologies of all time." "microsoft solitaire".
(adam laughs) - [adam] i mean, they had
to come up with 100 things. they set themselves a pretty big list. - [linus] skype is 96. - sounds like computers were awful. - (chuckles) yeah, pretty much. having flash memory
under that laser printer? yeah, i don't know if i can
get behind (laughs) that, - yeah-
- especially knowing what we know now. - was the future not always
bright for flash memory? - flash memory wasn't actually slated as a replacement for the hard drive. - december, 2007. - mm, okay.
- i feel like they should have seen it coming. - nvidia sli, how'd that work out? it's funny how some of their
selections are really broad, actual industry-changing things. ata or dsl, and some of
them are super specific. (laughs) mcafee virusscan is number 60. were they a sponsor by any chance? can tell what was a hot
topic back then though. perpendicular hard drive recording, huge deal because all of a sudden, instead of laying out the zeros and ones, this way, you were able
to lay them out this way, and hard drive density was going through a period of rapid, rapid growth. you could make an argument for napster being even higher
than this, in my opinion, because napster was the wake-up call that the music industry got
that something needed to change. i don't think spotify exists today if not for the disruption of napster. - napster just enabled
people to share music in a way that never worked before. - exactly. "half-life"? okay. "doom" beat "half-life"? - i mean, "half-life"
wouldn't exist without "doom". "doom" was-
- that's fair. - you could also make an argument that "quake" was more influential just because of the power and
modularity of the engine. again, "half-life" also wouldn't
exist because of "quake" 'cause it was originally
built on "quake's" engine. - windows xp, really? number five? - position of windows xp in
this list was very much affected by the poor reception
- the time. - of me and 2000. - well, no, 2000 wasn't poorly-received. 2000 was excellent, but you gotta understand that windows 2000 was
not a consumer product. consumers were stuck
with windows 98, 98 se, me, as you mentioned, and
then it went straight to xp. windows 2000 was good because
it was based on the nt kernel, and that's what made windows xp good. so again, i'm looking at this, going, "well, hold on a second." yes, windows xp brought a
better kernel to consumers, but it wasn't what
introduced it to the world and it wasn't what introduced
this familiar way that we have of interacting with our computer, with the start menu and
and all this other stuff, the taskbar. mosaic, the first web browser. yeah, mosaic should probably
be above now that we know how much more the internet
has changed our lives than even they knew back
then, this is number one, way above graphics cards and a particular line of
cpus and even above usb. - [adam] that's fair. i think usb is a fair
pick for the time though. - usb changed the game.
that's definitely true. honestly, i could sit and just go through this for many hours. tunic tower 120, that holds
a special place in my heart. - should we look at it?
- my first review, boys. stock cooler or your amd stock cooler. look at what we literally
put on a pedestal (laughs) in 2005.
(adam laughs) put on an actual physical pedestal. oh man, yeah. athlon 64 x2 4800+, i
drooled over that one. there's no justification for
spending the extra though. i got the 4400+. that way, you get the full, i wanna say it was 512
kilobytes of cache per core. ugh, don't quote me on that. but you get the full cache on the chip, and you can just overclock it
a couple hundred megahertz, and you're good to go. i got a 2405fpw from dell. logitech g5 absolutely
deserves its place here. zelman reserator 1 plus. do you even know what this thing is? - [adam] no, is it a radiator? - it's called a reserator
because it's a reservoir and a radiator, and it
literally sat outside your case. you know how so many old
cases have those punch outs to run something into the inside?
- yeah, i remember having one of those. - it's for water-cooling. if you had one of these reserators, it would passively dissipate the heat to the surrounding air, and through sheer volume of the water, it would be able to
absorb momentary spikes like a short gaming session. they were actually super cool, and i believe that
especially later models, you could get an add-on fan that would blow down the whole thing, and the performance was outstanding. cooler master stacker cm 830. this was actually a super dumb case because the whole point of the stacker, it's right in the name, is you can stack it with hard drives, and the stacker 830 was
sexy-looking and could fit gpus. and this was cool, you could put four
120-millimeter fans on the side to basically blow fresh air across the entire inside of the computer. or i shouldn't say hard drives because it was 5 3/4-inch
base in the early stackers. so you could fill it with anything. fan controllers, we would
put those in the front. reservoirs were typically 5 3/4-inch bays. we didn't do tube
reservoirs internally yet. this is their blunders. the thermaltake-
- an apple mouse. apple still makes garbage mice. - they really do. - [adam] because i was the one
that had the stupid, little, awful-feeling track ball in it, right? - this wifi router
promised a mile of range from an 802.11b. well, that's just an obvious lie. (laughs) they're so mad about this
arctic cooling cooler that came on the sapphire
toxic radeon x700 pro. you wanna know why they're mad? it's actually a super cool
cooler, it was uv-reactive. so it would glow blue and orange, toxic. "it consumes three, count
'em, three pci slots." where am i gonna put all my other cards? now, we have motherboards that don't even have
hardly any slots on them 'cause nobody puts any
cards in their motherboards. that's great.
- yeah. - well, i've been drinking from the water bottle
the whole time, baby. - [adam] ooh, yeah. it's the new colors? - oh, we have some
really awesome new colors for water bottles on ltt store and really dumb names
for them that we came up within literally two minutes. (linus and adam laugh) - [adam] so what's your favorite name? - i think cream scream
is my favorite dumb name - cream scream.
- because we can't call it, yeah, we can't infringe
on anyone's trademarks, but it's orange and white. - oh, yeah. look at that.
- holy bananas. quad core cpu. man, look at that cable
and tubing management. is that skulltrail? we did a whole video about skulltrail, intel's former dual socket
enthusiast platform. it was pretty cool. - is that as chipset cooler? - no, no, okay. skulltrail used fully buffered dimms because it was based on
intel's server architecture, and fully buffered dimms had
these buffer chips on them that ran extremely hot. they needed active cooling,
this was not an optional thing. so that's a corsair dominator
airflow ram cooler sitting over top of the memory slots. - [adam] and the memory slots
on this motherboard are down beneath the cpu, which is- - correct because the north
bridge, see this right here? contains the memory controller. this is before intel integrated
the memory controller. - oh.
- so these two core architecture-based cpus right here, but each of them are quad core and they're communicating
to the north bridge, which communicates to the memory. cool, right? - that's pretty neat.
- pci express was also still on the chipset. so that was going all the
way down here to your dual, i can't tell what these are, but they're definitely ati cards or amd. i can't remember if the
acquisition has happened. - [adam] they are 700s. - but we've got two of them in crossfire, and their sandwiched right in together because who needs cooling? corsair fully buffered dimms. love how corsair put their
sticker on these server dimms. good job, corsair. danger den made a
waterblock for this board so that you could still
install all of your cards 'cause see otherwise, if
you install the waterblock, you'd have tubes sticking out, right? so you could still install all your cards and then have the cooling
come out somewhere else. d-tek fuzion v2 cpu blocks. good, old danny d-tek. (adam chuckles) - [adam] the velociraptors,
i remember seeing those. - ocz water-cooled memory modules. yep, not one but two barbs per side. to actually tube them up, i think they were 1/4 inch
or 1/8 inch, can't remember, to actually tube them up
was an absolute gong show. it's so dumb. - [adam] for all that money,
"crysis" runs at 26 fps. - that's why it's a freaking meme. - it was just unplayable,
it was incredible. - what am i even looking at? this is the worst ad i've ever seen, unlike this ad for our sponsor. - thanks to storyblocks for
sponsoring today's video. ever needed a quick clip for a video, but didn't have the capacity
to make it yourself? storyblocks helps you
bring your stories to life without sacrifice due to
time, budget, or resources. there's over a million royalty-free assets for you to choose from,
including 4k hd footage, adobe templates, music, images, and a wide array of diverse
and inclusive content. there are subscriptions for every budget, so you can choose the
plan that works for you, from their unlimited all-access plan that gives you unlimited
video and audio downloads to enterprise licensing so
your entire company has access to the assets as you need them. we use storyblocks here at linus tech tips when we need stock footage fast. so check out storyblocks today at storyblocks.com/linustechtips. - if you guys enjoyed this video, i'd say go check out the
skulltrail retrospective that we did. it's a super cool platform and it's worth digging a little deeper, and then i did with my little mousing over where the data paths were. thanks for watching, bye-bye!