- this is no regular pc cooler, but rather bio luminescent
coolant that you are about to watch us create with the help
of the genetically engineered bacteria that is behind us over there. it, isn't the kind of thing
you'd run in your pc 24/7 at least not exactly like this, but the biotechnology
involved blew my mind. so, let's have a chat about
how we built the world's first bioluminescent gaming pc, or as i call it, the angler fish. (fierce hissing) they don't have claws
it's more like teeth, but minor details... minor details like our
sponsor war thunder. war thunder is an online
military vehicle combat game that's free to play and a ton of fun. try it out for free down below
today and get some special bonus items for signing up. (upbeat techno music) let's go back in time to before the angler
fish came to life though. today we're joined by the
fine folks from nyoka labs, whose main area of focus is creating a sustainable glow stick by using bioluminescence
to create the light instead of harsh chemicals that can
seep into the environment after disposal. in nature, whether we're talking about
a bacteria or a jellyfish, bioluminescence is created by
combining two main compounds, luciferin and luciferase. these are generic catchall words
to describe actually a wide variety of different chemicals. kind of like how we say
a battery has to have an anode and cathode, but the exact materials that
they're made of can vary greatly. the combo we're using
today is derived from gaussia princeps, a deep sea crustacean
that naturally glows blue. the only challenge is that
these guys wouldn't be particularly happy trapped
inside a glow stick, or your computer. so instead, the folks from nyoka labs
take the natural recipe from these guys, and then they get bacteria to
fart out those same compounds that are needed to produce the reaction. the first step of this process
is locating the chunk of a creature's dna that is
responsible for bioluminescence. to find the specific sequence, you need one protein to
separate the two strands of dna and read a single strand, creating rna. the rna is the code that will
produce another protein that will execute a function in the cell. when bioluminescence is
occurring, you freeze the cell, read the rna that's
floating around in there, and then you try to link it
to the function of interest. once you've figured out, what bit of genetic code is
responsible for bioluminescence. you order a primer off the internet, which contains short segments of the dna. you need to make copies of
along with dna segments that are already present in the bacteria. you then take a boatload of the
dna primer and chuck it into this guy right here, the thermal cycler. this bad boy heats up the dna
to around a hundred degrees celsius, at which the double
strands separate in to single strands because they can't
stay together at such high temperatures. then, you just get to hope
that when it cools back down, the segments from your primary
dna will bind to the regions of the longer dna strands
that are complimentary. from here a protein comes in and repairs the dna turning that single strand back into a double strand. and in the process adding the
bit of dna code that you need for bioluminescence. do this 20 or so more times, and you get loads of copies of
the dna that you want to put into your bacteria to make it glow. from here, you shoot all
that dna into the bacteria, essentially injecting code, and the bacteria will read
that code and create the luciferase needed for our
bioluminescent reaction. but enough talk! let's do it. thanks to reductions in the
cost of equipment and supplies. this kind of biological science can actually be performed at home. all you will need is some pipettes, whoops. some pipette tips, some kind of media. so this is essentially the
food for our live bacteria. we'll get to those in a moment. you'll need some live bacteria. as well as a, ohh! centrifuge and naturally safety equipment. safety first ladies and gentlemen. now, obviously we're going to
do this cooking show style. since you guys don't want
to wait 24 hours for our dna altered e. coli to grow in
our nutrient solution here. so, we would then take that
which instead of looking like, nah, mildly dehydrated, but still relatively healthy pee, would look like extremely cloudy, you need to go
see your doctor pee. we take that. we throw it into our centrifuge
here for probably somewhere in the neighborhood of five, ten minutes, something along those lines. we pour off the extra
and we end up with this. concentrated e. coli. oh, don't worry. this is not the pathogenic kind. this is like specifically
engineered to be safe. otherwise, they wouldn't let me handle it. right? that's true. that's true. so i will not be making any (clears throat) unscheduled visits to the bathroom. now! oh, it stinks. okay. we can actually use this
to create a reaction. check this out. so we've got. hold on. i've got my luciferase,
and i've got my luciferin. i want my luciferin. i'm going to take a hundred
microliters of this. they don't believe i can
do it properly, i know it. i'm gonna go down to the first stop. slowly draw it back up. wow. look at that. the system works it's right at the mark. is that, is that what it's supposed to do? all right. cool. here we go. then we're going
to drop this puppy in here. see you later, and watch this. oh wow. you can actually see it's working already. what? yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. don't worry. i got this, got this. you know what? i'll shake it
first then we'll hit the light. okay. go for it! go for it! oh, there's another light. damn. whoa! that is sick! get it? cause it's a e. coli. (laughter) and this is a completely
organic reaction. right? it'll glow more, oh heat. right. that makes sense. enzymes. see, i remember a couple
of things from, uh, you know, grade 10 science. (aggressively growls) i've been informed it's not heat speeding up the reaction, it's actually oxygen
that causes the luciferin to glow more brightly. oh wow. it's already dying. it's dying. oh, it's back! whoa! okay, hold on a second.
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. okay. so let's just get
some oxygen into it. no, no, don't worry. i'm not gonna,(scuffs) i'm not gonna. i wasn't going to do that. okay. but now we'll probably have
more oxygen in the air in here. so we shake it. do we get a brighter glow? eh, hard to say? there it goes. so good for you. you made an unhealthy pee
looking disease vile that glows. obviously, this is not the end game. so, the next step is we run this through what's called a nickel column. our protein was engineered with
a histidine tag, and that is going to be naturally attracted
to the nickel, along the outsides of this column as
we're pouring it through. so, what we can do, is we
pour the whole thing through, all the garbage makes
it through to the end. then, we actually sever that
histidine tag, and we wash it through, and we ended up with
nothing but our luciferase. so this, should give us a
much stronger reaction. right? you guys aren't, you guys aren't
setting me up here to do a lame demo are you? they wouldn't do that. they seem... they seem like nice people. this is my 10 microliters. okay. just 10 microliters this time. this is the tricky part. okay, we ready? there's just one site on our
protein where the reaction takes place. so you're going to see that if we, if we kept this completely
still, the like the end product would end up kind of gunking
it up and that yellow glow would actually go away after
a while. but if we mix it, things get really interesting. okay, let's kick the lights. oh yeah. you can
actually, oh, that's cool. you can see where it's kind
of seeping down into that. okay ready? (excited screeching) oh wow. that's fantastic. and it's not cloudy! no trip to the doctor today. and the best part is because
of the washing process. there is no e. coli inside it. uh, honestly though, my kids aren't that
into yellow glow sticks. so, um, what can we do about that? oh, let's try another color shall we? they wouldn't let us do science with our ltt store water bottle, but they're great for
drinking out of alright. gotta use. we'll use your flask. there's no pipetting?
this is just like a dried, ready to rock glow stick. oh, damn. wow. the green one's really bright. holy smokes. whoa ho ho! that is awesome! holy crap. i bet you can
even see my face andy. - [andy] here, let me crank it, oh! - oh, that is so cool. so then, conceivably, if you wanted to make
like a leader of this, you could just... you could do that? this one lasts about 20 minutes. okay. can you make it last longer? - mhm. - right. or conceivably,
you could design, you know glow stick capsules that have
like a slow release mechanism of some sort or something
along those lines too. - mhm. - right. - right. - got it. i guess they saw it at the
beginning of the video. so there's no real surprise to spoil. can we put it in the computer now? let's do it! uh oh, what? the computer
is not done alex? you had one job. research the video, get in touch with these
guys, write the video, build the computer. - wrangle me one job. all right, let's have some
fun here ladies and gentlemen. all right. uh, hit me with maybe
like 300 mils this time. we're gonna, we're gonna, launch our own line of like graduated cylinders and beakers, and
(bleep) for you guys. okay? so, this is where things
get a little bit trickier. yeah. we're going to have to run it
for a little bit to kind of kick some of these bubbles out of here. okay. so, so far we've put in what? 1500 mils? something like that? oh no. 1200. here we go ladies and gentlemen. uh well, - no, it's not. now it is. - why did it stop and start again? okay, now we have water
on our motherboard. good news is i think
the gpu backplate took the brunt of that. um. that's only five mils? - is there a way to...
all of that is five mils? - oh god. this is going to take forever. okay. well. - [unknown voice] oh,
there we go. beautiful. - okay. funnel-ception. the good news is we're close. does anyone still know
how much water is in here? - oh god. i have to get
all of that in there. funnel me. okay. okay. it's a little smelly. so, do you want to do just
a little bit at first? and should we, do you want
to turn the system off? how do you guys want to do this? what's going to give us max effect here? this is the big moment. whoa, that is super cool. okay. here we go. you getting this sandy? get a close up. i'm going to give it
another little jet here. (whispering) wow that's so cool. okay. i'm going. i'm going for it now. that is freaking bright. oh, that is so cool! is the density of this one,
like higher or something? - but why is it sitting
at the bottom like that? it's time. ha look, we spilled some. now that's an easy way to find
a leak in your water cooling system. that is so, cool. that is a very different effect isn't it? compared to when you have like a uv light and then a uv reactive
additive in the water because the, the water
itself is what's glowing. that it crazy cool. now obviously constantly
topping up your computers, enzymes is not a very practical
way to get it to light up. not to mention that once you've
got microparticles whipping around in your loop, the damage to your cpu block
is going to make the rust in our whole room water cooling system look like a piece of cake. but, it's not like this is being sold as an ek crile fuel competitor. so, the good news for nyoka's plan, creating glow sticks, is that for that use, it might just be perfect. in your typical dollar store glow stick, the chemicals used to create
the light effect are so nasty. that is probably a good thing, that we couldn't find a proper recipe in this classic episode
of channel super fun. and, even worse, to
contain these chemicals, very sturdy plastic is needed. so, every time a glow stick gets cracked, it'll be bright and admittedly, very
fun for an hour or two. then it'll sit not breaking
down for a thousand years. the bio-based fluid,
however, is much less toxic. i mean, you could take the
contents of an nyoka glow stick, like this one, and just dump it afterwards,
or even drink it if you really wanted to. and the plastic around
it is biodegradable too. it's also even possible
to use this method... thank you. to create re-usable glow
sticks, since you can just flush the glow solution down the drain and fill it again to recharge it. now, admittedly, these glow sticks aren't
cost-effective at the moment. but, this technology has the
potential to scale really well. and glow sticks are just one
example of the type of reaction that can be made more
sustainable using biotechnology. everything from clothing, to
pharmaceuticals, to literal burgers can be made in this fashion. ha ha. i made you guys watch a science lecture. disguise does a computer video. gotcha. and now it's over, for this
message from our sponsor, war thunder. war thunder is a free
to play online military vehicle combat game. it's available on windows, mac, linux, playstation four,
playstation five, x-box one, and x-box series s and x with cross play. there's more than 34 million players from all over the world. and it features an incredible
arsenal of more than 1700 historically accurate
playable tanks, aircraft's, and ships from the 1930s,
all the way to the 1990s. you can participate in massive
combined arms battles on over 80 major battlefields from
world war ii to the end of the cold war. and there's
always active development. there's free major updates
every couple of months to add even more content including vehicles, maps, and new gameplay features. so, head to the link below and start playing war thunder for free. you'll also be able to get a
free bonus premium vehicle just for signing up. if you guys enjoyed this
video and you like our more science-y oriented content, maybe check out our fusion reactor video. they probably actually made a
fair bit of progress since we made that, but it's still really cool.