- Hello, and welcome to
a very special episode of "Wishtery Tech" where
we buy questionable items from our favorite retailer, wish.com. Let's see what we've got
this time around shall we? It's probably gonna be
disappointing and terrible. Okay, they have a $5
fire TV stick but it is, wait it's an actual fire
TV stick for five bucks. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. It's the remote. It's the remote. I'm not gonna buy a $700 motherboard or whatever I spent last time again. No no no see, I'm gonna
read the descriptions and look at all of the photos. Not just be like, "Ooh, that
sounds like a good deal. Add to cart." I mean I sometimes do that but I'm gonna do better
to not do that today. Super mini wireless Bluetooth speaker portable, small pocket
gift, small speaker, portable wireless, TWS
bass, Bluetooth small sound. This thing looks tiny (laughing). Our sizes, black, red, random color. That's my kind of size. It's random color. Oh oh here we go, the Hauwei Mate40 Pro, not the Huawei, the Hauwei. Yikes, I think they just
took a bunch of Huawei slides and they just photo-shopped a
bad camera module on the back. Although I'm not sure why there's a girl on all of the cameras. I think I'm gonna regret this. I think this's gonna be
one of those classic things where I buy some cheap knockoff
phone and it's terrible. But every once in a while
these things are good. We did a video on "This Is." taking a look at a very
decent convincing fake of the iPhone 11 pro. So I'm gonna keep trying these things and hope that I get lucky. Okay (upbeat music) I found an Xbox Series X $1,100 but express shipping for $3.99 will get it here in three days. So do I wanna spend over double retail on an Xbox Series X from Wish? - [Ken] Well, do they have PS5? (loud gong)
(bell chimes) - The PS5 Wish. (bell chimes) - The Wish Edition PS5. What happens when I search PS5? A gun shows up. Just a gun. - [Ken] That's what
you use to get your PS5 at the store. - Oh God they have it. They have a Digital
Edition PS5 for $1,100. - [Ken] For the Digital? That's almost three times the price. - I'd be better on StockX right now. I like how there's one
review from Timothy. "I have not received it yet but Wish is a good place to shop from, thank you guys." (laughing loudly)
(upbeat music) Look, after last time I
got ripped off on Wish I should know better. I should find quality
items to give you guys an entertaining few minutes of your day while you're chilling on YouTube. I should not spend a lot of money on Wish and cry afterward, I'm
gonna, I can cry right now. - [Ken] Cool. - Huh well, while I cry about my PS5, there's a Switch, and by Switch I mean it's PSP knockoff that has red and blue colors. For GBA classic games. See I'm reading. Aren't you proud of me right now. I'm actually reading the listing. I'm looking at the photos right now. Do they have Pokémon cards on Wish?` - [Ken] Look it up. - Oh they do, they do. Hello, they have fake Poké,
(clearing throat) Pokémon cards. Well Poké Evolution, it's showing 324. Maybe these are cards or these
packs, what am I getting? 27 bucks, I'm just gonna buy this. What! This is a VR headset for Switch. So I know that there is some very limited virtual reality support on Switch. I have never tried it but I
can find out for 16 bucks. - [Ken] Is it just the plastic headset? - Oh yeah, you just drop
it straight in, that's it. I'm just buying this. (upbeat music) So the grand total right now is $1600. However, when I use my promo code it drops to $100 off, ow. Well. - [Ken] $500 off your $1,100 PS5. (laughing softly) Okay. (air whooshing) Hello and welcome back to "Wishtery Tech" where we now have the
"Wishtery Tech" items for this "Wishtery Tech" episode. Is it time to finally
shoot while I'm (laughing). (gentle music) - I should've seen that
coming, but I didn't. But it's too soft (groaning). It's always nice when
it's soft (groaning). There's a label on here, I'm not even gonna look at it I'm just gonna open it right up. - [Matt] You've to be careful with that. - [Ken] Yeah actually yeah. - On the outside, no, no, no, no. It's two layers, if I cut
like this it'll be fine. I like the idea that
you're next to me though. I understand this something soft in here. I'm not just gonna rip into it. Who do you think I am, Ken? - [Ken] I think you're you. - Did I order a dinosaur costume? - [Ken] You sure did. - So here's the thing. It takes so long to get your hands on stuff from Wish. That we shot the ordering
section of this video well over a month ago and
I'd completely forgotten what we've got here except that this is a dinosaur costume. I'm just gonna tell
you I'm gonna wear this for the segment and it's
definitely coming off. First of all let's confirm that this's actually going to work. (gentle humming) woo. (gentle humming)
(dramatic music) (costume rustling) (drum rolls)
(tense music) (zip hissing) - So where does the fan go? Attaches to my back somewhere. - No but there's a hole here. - Yeah, it goes into
the hole and just turns. - There's no other hole. - [Matt] Yeah there at the top. - Just find the hole Ken. Ken you should know how
to find the hole by now. - [Matt] Why am I always hugging Austin. - Oh, I'm starting to feel things. (tense music) - Look how he's filling up now, look ow. Also looking kind of thick down here. - All right a dinosaur yet? - Oh it's getting there. - Yo oh! That's got to go.. - All right we're out here. We're out here. - I haven't reached my final form yet. (Austin groaning) (imitates roaring) (Austin laughing) Yes, yes I've conquered
the Roboraptor finally. I have absorbed his power and become Megaraptor! (costume rustling) (loud cluttering) (Austin laughing) Feel my power. - [Matt] Wait there is another. (costume rustling) (Austin groaning) (dramatic music) - Remember me? - [Ken] Your legacy will live on as what will drive our
cars in millions of years. - Where're the electric vehicles? Save the dinosaurs. (air whooshing) - Something hard, just the way I like it. What do we got here? Oh, the fake, wait this is the fake PSP? - [Matt] How dare you insinuate
that it might be fake. (bouncy music) - All right, let's see what we've got. Oh my goodness. That is a Switch Vita hybrid,
if I've ever seen one. - [Ken] Wow. - That's something else right there. I will tell you, so. - [Ken] I actually don't hate how that. - Here, you don't hate it. Listen to this. (soft thud) It's not so much cheap
feeling but it's very hollow. - Look that's actually just
printed on the plastic. - No, no, it's literally
they took a fake Vita and then they printed it blue and red with a pen or something,
and now it's a Switch. - I can't see anything,
any angle looks terrible. - [Matt] Ironically it looks okay from my- - [Ken] This is what I. - Ah never mind. - [Ken] This is what I see. I'm gonna have to look at it like this so you guys can clearly
see what's going on. - [Matt} Are you balding on the back? - No what? Excuse me. I bald at the, what? Where? Wait, wait, zoom the camera in. - [Matt] I think we'll just
let you be self conscious. - No no where am I balding? - [Ken] Yeah. - I'm a balding. - [Ken] That's a spot. - No. - [Ken] Like, hold on wait like like. - No like. - No no like right there. - No, no, no, that's not me. - [Matt] I mean that's where you're- - Uncle Austin will have hair forever. - [Ken] That's where Papa
Austin started balding too. (Matt Laughing) - Here I am. - [Matt] Welcome to adulthood. - All right (beeping). (laughing)
(game beeping) - Nice Nintendo Switch noises. - [Ken] That thing is loud, it's loud. - I can turn it down. - [Ken] No, I'm impressed. - How do you turn it off? - [Ken] Yeah. - Okay, what wait what? Is this fire red. (game music) - This is clearly a
FireRed LeafGreen ROM hack. - It's all in Chinese so
I can't read any of it. - [Ken] You know for as much as you go to that part of the world you'd think you'd learn some of it? - You sound like my wife. All right, this is just a ROM hack. What else do we have Super Mario One. (buttons clicking) (game music) - [Matt] That's embarrassing. - That is embarrassing. This is exactly what everyone of these little emulator things are. It's vaguely usable. And if you think about it as
a $50 product it's terrible but at least we get a pair of
headphones included the box and a TV cable, just saying. (air whooshing) (Austin laughing) - You wanna try that one again? (soft thud) - All right, next item
is portable speaker. Oh this is the world's
smallest dumb speaker from dumb town. Small and portable,
delicate and exquisite. Three Watts, strong burst,
make sound quality, restore more real natural, good decorative effect. It can be decorated in a your love car. It can be hung around necklace, necklace. In any place it's a
delicate decoration, wow. - [Matt] I don't like love car as a thing. - Matt, you just need to
decorate your love car. - [Ken] That's what I call the Scion iQ. You're not doing a lot
of love in that car. That's very, very a little. It'll be like (clicks). - [Ken] I mean, you make do
with what you (laughing). - [Matt] This's $12 with $7 in shipping. (paper rustling) - [Ken] That looks not worth it. I was surprised it's a speaker. All right let's fire it up
and see how well it sounds. (gentle music) This is max volume, which is quite loud. (upbeat music) Okay we can't listen the max volume, it's just way too much. - [Ken] It distorts a lot. It actually doesn't sound terrible for the price. - It's not a massive improvement over your phone speaker. Imagine you hang that from
your backpack, cool bag. (air whooshing) - All right (clapping). There's a package there,
we should just do it. (gentle music) Oh is this what I think it is? - [Ken] You ordered these. (loud thud) (Matt laughing) - [Matt] Instantly devalued this package. What about my PSA 10 Ken? Oh get the (censored) out of here right now. How much did I pay for this? How much did I pay for this? - [Matt] Uh $38.
(bright music) - Okay, for reference an
Evolutions Booster Box goes for somewhere between
five to $600 right now. Let's put our Leonhart
hats on and investigate. The print quality on
the top does look odd. Also that doesn't look like enough cards. - [Matt] Wait is that the
Raichu from Pokémon stadium? - [Ken] Probably. - Okay that seems fine. Okay well, I'll tell you they don't usually put
the cards in like that. (Austin laughing) Y'all this is (censored) is wacky, these are fake Pokémon cards. First of all I don't think these pack arts look particularly authentic. Nothing about this looks right. Josh, can you please show a
photo of what this pack art actual looks like, thank you. All right, oh my God. Okay you might not be
able to tell on camera. How do not have any Pokémon cards on me. This yellow is totally off. The colors are so far off. The cards seem a little small. The only authentic thing about these cards is that they're just as off
center as the originals. (Austin laughing) What is this art? What is this art? This is not real art. - [Ken] Y'all what the fuuuu... - That is not real art. - [Ken] I wish that was real art. - Also the pull rates are great. So out of one pack we've got an Ex Slowbro a Blastoise EX. We've got a Machamp BREAK and we have a Charizard EX and a Zygarde EX and a Starmie. What kind of pull is that? But if you were trying to sell bootlegs and you had that good pull rate I'm pretty sure you would
just buy more bootlegs. Here you go Matt. Open some Pokemon cards. - [Matt] Got Tangela. A Blastoise EX. But one actually says it's Caterpie. - Wait.
[Ken] Wait. - [Matt] It's Caterpie EX. (all laughing) - Someone copy pasted
the card too hard, wow. We're gonna consult with the
Pokemon card expert here. I'm currently talking
with Leonhart right now. Okay newsflash, this is not weird Leon knows exactly what I'm talking about. Yup, he's seen these. It's a Chinese reprint set. They're knockoff (Ken laughing). - All right, the Pokémon
master himself has spoken. (air whooshing) Okay. (oof) - [Matt] It might be fun, but not It might be fun, but not
is what I just heard. Okay well let's get into
the next item shall we. (upbeat music)
(package crackling) What is this? Oh is this the fake Huawei? Oh right, this is the fake Mate. Oh my goodness, okay. - [Matt] Just like all my girlfriends. - All right so it makes it
look like we have five cameras like a certain Huawei product. However, there there's
pretty clearly one camera and a bunch of fake ones. Like these are all 100% not real cameras. - [Matt] Can I interject for a sec? - Please do. - [Matt] I've never seen this on Wish.com. - [Matt] Okay, go ahead. - So clicking on the product. - Yeah. - [Matt] I get the message "Oops, this product is
under content review by the Wish team. Please stay tuned." - Are you telling me
that they finally found the one counterfeit product on Wish, out of all the years of "Wishtery Tech". We got them boys, we got 'em. (dramatic music) (melodic chime) Oh my God, I hate
everything about this phone. - [Matt] What's upsetting is that you- - Oh! Do you want. Do you feel? That's the most disgusting
thing I've touched in like a solid five minutes. - [Matt] That's not a high bar. - Oh what the fuuu? - It's like sandpaper. - Also I love the, you see this? The ice cream sandwich bottom bar. - No, no, no. (Ken laughing) - You're not telling me now. We literally have gone
back like eight years. No, y'all, I have not seen this. Oh no, oh that's brutal. Oh it's Android 10, it's
fine. It's Android 10. This is how Android 10 looks. - They definitely modded this to say 10. There's no way that that's 10. - Absolutely no way. Yo that's hilarious. - Also can I just direct
your attention to our notch? So we have our little teardrop notch which is clearly a basil on the real front facing
camera's on this side. This is clearly a crappy old phone that they repackaged to
try and look like a Huawei. I would be surprised if
we snapped off this case. Oh it comes off. (dramatic music) I'm taking this one personally. - [Matt] Austin again we have... - We have extra better tools. - [Matt] There's a tool for that. Literally within arm's reach now. - Its okay I'm fine. - That is not, you just broke that. - I love how it broke itself before it broke my card but okay. I don't think this is supposed
to come out Austin Evans. - Oh we're opening it up now. - Ope got it, got it. Oh yeah there it is. . See it doesn't look terrible on the inside. Do I have to, can we just not. - [Ken] Take a photo with it? Just take one photo
and then we'll be gone. - One photo and we're out. - All right, say cheese. - [Ken] Cheese. (camera shutters) - There you go, all right selfie time (camera shutters) - [Ken] That flash did it (laughing) That was such a poor attempt. - Look if you're here for
a review of this thing this ain't it chief. - [Matt] That's not how
you use that saying. (dramatic music) - That is not how you use that saying bro. - No, no, no, no, no more items. I need to recover my chi. (air whooshing) (soft thud) I said no more items. I need to get over the mediocrity and make some content here. - All right (soft thud). - [Matt] Giving more items does that. - No 'cause (groans). This stupid thing. All right, this might be mildly okay. (Austin laughing) So this is a VR headset for the old Nintendo Switch. Now that might sound crazy. However, there are actually a few games that do support the Switch with VR. Think Zelda comes to mind. There's a Zelda, is it? - [Ken] Breath of The Wild. - Breath of The Wild, but how do you. Wait do you I have a Switch with Breath of The Wild. - Do you have a Switch? - Okay I rephrase, do you have a Switch
with any VR game on it? - [Ken] Maybe. - [Matt] Probably not. - So because we are not prepared we'll be right back in the future with an actual game for the Switch VR, which I'm sure will be wonderful, high quality, and not
disappointing in any way. (air whooshes) Oh wait, wait I almost opened it. Eight years old and above. Well, unfortunately I'm not
old enough to use this product but I won't tell if you don't tell. Wait that sounded bad. (upbeat music) Anyway so there's nothing
to this (laughing). There was a trend in like
the 2013, 2014 kind of range where there would be
all of these VR headsets that took advantage of your phone. And while a lot of
these were kind of cool. It was like your very first taste of VR. They generally sucked. So why not do it with the Switch? The hardware here is incredibly simple. I mean it's just a couple of lenses and it's just very close focusing. So the swap in Odyssey. I'm gonna experience the
full VR wonder of Switch. Playing in VR. All right we found it. Why's the head this small what the? This is so uncomfortable,
wow okay I'm ready. Put me in. Oh okay yeah, this is working. Wow, it is very blurry. And the thing is, so
typically with a VR headset you're gonna use something
like an OLED display or something which has
very low pixel persistence, which essentially means that
the screen is very sharp from frame to frame. So as you move around you see that. And it does track relatively well but the problem is that
it's just not sharp. I'm probably spoiled because
I've used proper VR headsets such as Oculus, such
as Vive, such as PSVR, such as Google Cardboard. It's not amazing. This is cool if it was 2015 again. (air whooshing) Oh, I forgot about this. So when we were ordering
earlier in the episode I spent a lot of money on a PS5 from Wish. Wait why is there a piece of tape on here? Do you see it? (bouncy music) - [Ken] Oh, how'd that get there? - Did you tamper with this PS5. Did you? - [Ken] No couldn't be me. (loud rumbling)
(Austin laughing) (soft thud) - That (censored) is not packed well. What is? (loud thud) - [Ken] Seems legit. - (laughing) Why is it wobbling so much? This is not what PS5. (piano chimes) - Ken there're three
rocks in this PS5 box. - [Ken] There should've been five, but. (Austin laughing) - [Ken] As you expected. The Wish PS5 never came in. - They shipped us rocks
instead of the PS5. Wait you put the rocks in here. - [Ken] Wow wow now, hey hey hey hey! (loud rumbling) - Hello and welcome to my unboxing and review of the Sony PlayStation rock. It has features such as. (rocks clacking) - [Ken] I got us a refund. - You got us a refund. - Yes. - Is that how you bought the rocks? - [Ken] No I got those outside, but people clicked on the video so we made our money back. - Are you trying to tell me that it all worked out in the end and this is the happily ever after story. And I now have three rocks
to go along with USB rock to make my life feel better. - [Ken] Not for the audience but for us. (upbeat music)