- Today I'm going to be taking a look at the HP Dragonfly Pro. Two things to note: first
of all, thank you very much to HP for sponsoring this video, second of all, calm Austin has returned. Yes, my friends, the myth is
true, the yelling has gone. Let's just sit down. Sit down. We're gonna be calmly
taking a look at this, a very high quality laptop from our friends over at Hewlett Packard. Can you say the word, "laptop"? - Can you say. - [Austin] Laptop? - Fantástico! - I have not physically
touched this laptop yet. I've done some research, I know some of the basic core specs, but it's a little bit more exciting to me to actually do an unboxing and to show you the first impressions and to kind of just experience the device for the first time with you. It's the better way of doing these than I think consolidating it down to three minutes of bullet
points and specs and whatnot. But instead it's like, "Oh hey, how is this
thing to actually use, what are the advantages,
and who is this really for?" Inside, we have the Dragonfly Pro. First and foremost, this is powered by the latest generation
of AMD processors, which is actually quite unique, but this is, as far as I'm aware, a device which has been
pretty much designed from the ground up to be
co engineered with AMD to take advantage of their latest tech. Which for someone who takes
a look at a lot of laptops, that are typically either powered by Intel or of course things like MacBooks, I'm really curious to see how this is actually going to stack up. The lid is actually quite thick, which I'm not entirely
sure what that's for. Feels solid, but okay. I will give them props
that as a 14 inch laptop, I'm very happy to see
upward firing speakers. I just think that if you
want a nice audio experience on your laptop, having speakers that fire directly towards you instead of something that fires down or through the back or
whatever, that's a win. I also like this finish. It's very sort of matte and the port... Wow, what an interesting port selection. There's three USB-Cs. No headphone jack. Huh. Boy with a laptop this
thick, would've been nice if they would've fit
a headphone jack, huh? Firing up the Dragonfly, this device is targeted at freelancers, it's targeted people who
want to get work done, but don't necessarily need
some hugely powerful device. They also sell a Chromebook
version of this device. Although I will say that
the Chromebook version is powered by an Intel processor,
it's a little bit cheaper. This Windows powered with the AMD is a little bit more, you
know, loaded with everything. Wow, okay. So that's the first thing I'm noticing. That touchpad surface feels terrific. It's super smooth. Wait, is it touchscreen? Touchscreen. Now, I know that when
designing this laptop, battery life was one
of their main focuses. According to HP, this is the best battery
life they've ever offered on one of their 14 inch consumer laptops. Now, I think part of the
reason they're able to do that, because I haven't opened it up yet, but I'm assuming that
there's quite a large battery inside here. Now it is touchscreen, of course, but what you're assuming is that it's slightly
lower resolution here is definitely gonna pay dividends when it comes to battery life. And let's be honest, at 14 inches, 1200p is completely fine, it is still a 16 by 10 aspect ratio. So as always, let's pop open task manager and see exactly what we've got. So this is outfitted
with the Ryzen 7 7736U, which is a Zen 4 based
CPU with eight cores. We also have a pretty
monstrous 32 gigs of ram as well as a one terabyte SSD, and this is outfitted with
Radeon RDNA3 graphics. This is meant as a device that
can get productivity done. If this is your device
to run your business, this is what they're
really designing it for. It's not meant for crushing noobs, it's designed for crushing
spreadsheets, emails, little bit of light video editing. Let's be real, that's
what most of us are doing. If you really want a editing
laptop or a gaming laptop, there are clearly better
choices out there. Also, I still cannot
say enough nice things about this trackpad. Just the surface alone is so, so nice. At this kind of price point, you should accept very,
very few compromises. So why don't we actually take
a look around the device? One interesting thing they've done, it actually has slightly rounded edges. So if you look all the
way in the corner here, they just knocked off just
a few pixels on the side. It's definitely becoming a
little bit more of a trend, especially with Windows 11, to have like rounded corners on things. It's more of a modern UI. So let's take a look, see some of the custom features
that HP have built in here. Oh my goodness, there's no
bloatware on this laptop. I'm shocked and surprised. I guess, I mean, when you're
getting a little bit more on the premium price
point, that's nice to see, but I'm used to a lot of
trials for things I don't want, some specific security software
that I always uninstall. Okay, cool. Wow, that's actually really nice. So there are actually a
lot of premium features that HP have included. So you actually can see some
of this on the keyboard. So you can see that for the most part, this is a full size keyboard, but you have some custom keys over here. So this little triple dot I can set here to do multiple items. So if I wanted to, I could set that to
copy-paste macro perhaps. What's something I need
to do on a regular basis that I want a keyboard shortcut for? I can use this to
automatically open up Bing and to copy-paste the first
chunk of my prompt in there. There we go. All right, that's neat. That's neat. One of the more unique
features of the Dragonfly is a dedicated support
button on the keyboard. Tap and hold it for a
second and you'll get access to 24/7 support via text or via call. This is actually really nice, because especially if
you are a one person show and you're doing
everything from your laptop and if something goes wrong, having the ability to instantly
get that is a huge win. So it's included for a year with a laptop, although you can pay an
additional subscription and you'll also get ongoing support if you do have, say, hardware issues or you literally just
need to talk to somebody. Not just you just need
to talk to somebody, we all need to talk to
somebody at some point, I'm sure they're very friendly,
but they'd probably prefer if you talk to 'em about
like laptop related things, not just like, I don't know... - [Ken] It's not a therapist button. (Austin laughs) - Let's watch a video. Oh, oh my god. Oh my god. I just typed the word
"YouTube" into YouTube search. (alarms blare)
(gun shots fire) I have bought the cheapest gaming gear Dude, these speakers
actually kind of slap. that I could find available at Amazon as well as with Prime shipping. These Bang & Olufsen
speakers sound terrific. And also I will say the
screen is really nice as well. If you're using this for consumption, whether it's for video or
audio or whatever, it's nice. I will say it would also be nice if they had found a way
to fit a headphone jack in the laptop. But the next best thing is
have some really nice speakers. And let me actually do a little
typing test on the keyboard. Woo! I didn't yell, that
was just an excitement, an exclamation of glory. 104, 100% accuracy. So yes, I will say the keyboard is nice. It's a very sort of clicky kind of feel, so it's not like a really
deep sort of press, but I think for someone who's gonna be spending
a lot of hours typing, especially when you compare
it with the touchpad, which it feels incredibly smooth, this is a nice place to spend time. I also like the material. If you take a close
look, you'll actually see like the little speckles
in the actual material, it's on the trackpad as well, and it gives it that
sort of like kind of feel that it's not gonna get like
really scuffed and scratched. Like it feels durable,
which I really like. Let's do a quick little
check of the webcam. It is Windows Hello powered. Start HP enhanced camera. Hell yeah I want an enhanced camera. Oh look, I'm in a cafe, wow. How about blur? Yeah. It's pretty neat. One thing I'll give HP props for, it is quite easy to open up the Dragonfly. There's a total of, I count
six screws on the backside. I'm not entirely sure if it's gonna be anything user upgradable, but I would just like to take a look to see what's actually
inside these devices. Now look at that. Wait, is this magnetic? Hold on a second. It's magnetic. Look. Yo! I will say there's probably not a lot that you can actually do underneath here. So we do have the battery,
which is 65 watt hours, we also do have dual cooling
fans, and that's about it. I don't think there's
anything replaceable. Look at the size of those drivers. No wonder it's so loud. That's actually really impressive. This laptop smells delicious. So cool. Normally with pretty much
any device that I try, I run some extensive benchmarks, but it feels like, while yes, this does quite well in Cinebench, 3DMark, and all the usual suspects, I'm gonna actually try to do
something inside of Excel. I'm going to multiply every number I can by every other number I can think of times as many as I can think of and I'm just gonna just
try to break Excel. All right, so we're gonna
just extend it out to, I don't know, how about
as far as it'll go. How about that many numbers? Can you count? Oh wow, okay. Oh, nope, that was 20,000 numbers. That was fast. Okay, let's put a Ryzen CPU to work. Let's calculate a... Oh. It just calculated 97,000 numbers before I could even finish a sentence. With that AMD Ryzen 7 processor, you know that you get decent graphics, 32 gigs of ram, and an eight core CPU, but on top of that, you also
have the flexibility of USB4, something that used to be a little bit of a downside on AMD processors, but now you've got the ability to have that full 40 gigabit in and out, you can connect it to monitors, hubs, docks, all that kind of fun stuff. It might not be the world's
most exciting looking hardware, but what it is designed to do is to be relatively eco-friendly, but importantly, actually durable, right? This thing is meant to last
for a extended period of time with some great support and the
ability to easily open it up and swap the battery out is a big win. So if you're interested
in learning anything else about this HP Dragonfly Pro, definitely be sure to go check it out at the link in the description. And huge thank you to HP
for sponsoring this video. Look, if you buy the Dragonfly Pro, you can program that button to open up the Austin Evans channel, so you're always kept up to date with the latest and greatest. I'm not saying you should do that, 'cause there's probably
better uses of that button, but you know what? I mean, I wouldn't blame you for it. Youtube.com/AustinEvans.