- This is a Tesla Model Y
Performance, and I just sold it. There's some things I like about it, but a whole lot more
that I absolutely do not. I gotta come clean with you. I've had this car for
almost two years now, and put a little over 25,000 miles on it. So this is my wife's daily. I don't want it to be an anti-Tesla video. My wife and I have been generally happy with some of the stuff with this, but there's also a whole lot of things which are just not okay. So this is specifically
a performance model, and if I'm gonna say some
positive stuff first, the performance is number one,
two, and three on my list. Now, obviously, all electric vehicles are somewhere between
quick and oh-my-God-fast, and this is a lot closer to the holy-(honk)-this-thing-is-fast. All right, gang, you ready to feel like what
Performance feels like? (passengers grunting)
(car engine whirring softly) Oh, yep, there it is. (car engine whistling) Aaah! - [Front Passenger] Damn. Yep.
- But that's one of the big advantages of this, just being able to just instantly-- (backseat passenger shrieking) - [Front passenger] Okay. - It's just right there. It's so easy! No, I'm not gonna do anything. (backseat passenger grunting) (all laughing) - [Front Passenger] I told you! (laughing) - I love gas-powered performance vehicles. (car engine revving)
(tires squealing) I absolutely love them. And I know that their time is running out. (car engine growling) But if this is the future, which I absolutely think it is, it's not all bad. And the thing is it's
actually gotten better over the time I've owned it. So a few months ago
they added a track mode, which seems a little bit
ridiculous for a small SUV, but not only can you take it on the track, you actually can put it in drift mode. I literally slid this thing around with a baby seat in the back. Mind you, the baby seat was empty (baby wailing)
at that particular time. But the performance you get
in something which looks so, I don't say bad, but come on, no one looks at this and
thinks it's cool, right? While I have a lot of issues with some of the build
quality of the vehicle, the fact that this is electric means there's so many fewer parts, and that, 25,000 miles in, I have not had to take
this to a dealer once. The only times I've had
to use Tesla Service was to install the garage door opener, which, stupidly, is not
included from the factory, and I had to replace one tire
because I got a nail in it. That's it. On top of the fact that you
have a decent sized trunk, there's also a lot of
extra space back here. So not only are there these
very deep pockets on the sides, but you can go even lower. Look at that! (camera person laughing) (trunk door whirring)
(trunk door clicking shut) As you can see, there's a lot of space in the back of the Model Y, and that's not counting the frunk. Quite possibly the best
feature of a Tesla, though, is one of the absolute most obvious. The fact that Superchargers are, I'm not gonna say everywhere, but far more common than the other, more generic EV chargers, such as Electrify America and EVgo, that's a big win. But more importantly than that, Tesla Superchargers are dead reliable. If you've ever heard
anyone talk about Teslas, it's always, "Superchargers,
Superchargers." Now, yes, Superchargers are
currently being opened up to other vehicles, but the problem is that's a slow process. I wouldn't be surprised if it takes years before
most Superchargers have any kind of access for other EVs. I like my fake carbon fiber
spoiler that's falling off now. Well, again, not my car
anymore, so not my problem. Let me explain to you how a door handle works
on a Tesla Model Y. It's nowhere near as
simple as it should be. Due to aerodynamics, they've got a very flush door handle, which means you always
have to push it on the side to open it, a little bit weird, but fine
once you get used to it. The issue is unlocking the vehicle. You have two ways in. First of all, you can use the little
credit card-like key to tap on the B pillar
and will unlock the car. Or, what the most convenient
way of doing it is, is to use your smartphone and Bluetooth. And sometimes this works, but most of the time it doesn't. And especially when you
have your hands full, and the car decides that it
doesn't wanna open up for you, it's really not very fun. And this happens all the time. That's what I'm talking about. But watch this, I'll pull my phone out. D'you see that? And that is just the beginning
of the quality issues that you could expect when
you buy yourself a Tesla. A couple of months after
purchasing the vehicle, both of the little covers for
your seat controls came loose. So I have electrical tied
both of them in place. There has been, the entire
time I've owned this car, this panel right here. Yeah, so you notice how
this doesn't stay flat? So not only has that always dragged, but you might see a
little bit of tumbleweed. Driving back from the
Bay area six months ago, I hit a tumbleweed, and it got trapped under there, and now it doesn't rattle anymore, but there's just
permanent tumbleweed stuck in my under body panel. The build quality issues extend far beyond just the exterior too. Now, that's probably not a big surprise. Almost everyone who owns a
Tesla complains about this, and I think it's completely warranted. Now, there's the obvious
stuff, like panel gaps, which, for a $60,000
vehicle, are not okay. But then there's lots of other things. The speaker that is on the
right door, the passenger door, it's just not screwed in right. So it's got a gap on the bottom. It rattles sometimes. Then there are things like the roof, which, while it is nicely tinted, and I actually think it looks nice, there's some sealant that's up here that they just didn't take off, and I can't get in there to scrape it out. I know this is very easy to come off as someone who's just complaining about, "Oh, it's not very nice
and so minimalistic." And yes, I like this display. This is the only thing
I like in the interior, besides the fact that it's
got a decent amount of space. The fact that I have no gauge
cluster here is annoying. The fact that I have to go here, and touch and move everything around anytime I wanna do anything
with the AC, very annoying. The lack of physical
controls have been taken to an absolutely ridiculous minimal level. And that's not even
counting the ride quality. Remember all that great
stuff that I was saying about the performance and everything? (passengers grunting) Well, oftentimes when it comes
to a performance vehicle, you're sacrificing, right? You know, you wanna get
more performance out of it, well, you can give up a
little bit of ride quality. Well, I think the Tesla
engineers heard that, and they go, "Performance!" And they dialed it all up, 'cause this thing rides like bad words that I'm not gonna say on camera. Yes, it's got 21-inch
wheels, kinda stupid. And yeah, it's got big,
sticky summer tires. Something to consider with an electric car is that electric cars are heavy. Below you, below the floor, are like a thousand pounds of
batteries or something, right? So it carries its weight low. But that's still a lot of weight that the suspension has to deal with. And that, paired with
the low profile tires, means that if you're going on
even a moderately bumpy road in this Performance,
it's just uncomfortable. And if you're in the backseat? There have been moments where you hit a little bump on the
freeway, and you'll like, your butt will come off the backseat. Even in something like in a Hyundai Ionic, or cars that cost half the price, have much nicer feeling touchpoints, much more comfortable to ride in. This feels like a real area where Tesla just don't spend money. When you look at Tesla as a company, they spend next to nothing
on research and development, compared to a legacy automaker. Now, that makes sense
when you sell four models, and essentially almost all their sales are of the Model 3 and the Model Y. If you've got a good thing,
just make more of them, right, especially when you make a tidy profit on every single model sold, significantly more than
most other automakers, especially in the electric space, because pretty much everyone
outside of Tesla lose money on every electric car they sell, or barely break even. But now that the supply has
caught up to the demand, Tesla, while they still
want to heavily invest in infrastructure and build more factories and battery plants, and
all that kinda stuff, they're faced with a difficult choice. They have an absolute
sky-high stock price. And to keep that actually propped up, they need to continue to build
and to grow and to churn, and to really just try to
own the electric space. But because the demand
has sort of leveled out, and they have to keep building
more and more factories and infrastructure and whatnot, they really only have one choice. Cut prices. And they have absolutely done that. So the car that I bought
back in 2021 cost $61,000. A year later, they had raised the price all the way up to $70,000. But now that supply has
caught up to demand, they've had to cut it drastically. It went from 70 grand in a
few short months to $53,000. That is a price cut
that you just don't see in the auto industry, short of some sports
car that no one wants, that eventually will be
worth a lot of money, that I would never buy or anything! And what that really means is that Tesla are aggressively
trying to push everyone out. Think about it. Tesla, while they are a
very valuable company, still make a very small
amount of vehicles, compared to Ford or Toyota. And with everyone in
the auto industry trying to bring out electric vehicles
to compete with Tesla, no one's able to do that at a profit. So if Tesla can slash their prices and really get everyone
out-competed, it makes sense. But you know what also would make sense? If they made a new car, or, I don't know, stopped removing features
from the few cars that they sell right now. So for example, with this vehicle, I ordered it, I believe
it was April, 2021. It arrived in June. And in that two-month time period, not only did they remove
the lumbar adjustment on the passenger seat, which is dumb, but okay, and they also removed the radar. So this is a Tesla vision car, which entirely uses the
cameras instead of the radar. Now, are either of those a big problem? Not really. But the car didn't get any cheaper for it. Tesla made some more money,
but I didn't save anything. So fast forward a couple of years, they've removed all kinds of stuff. They've removed one of the speakers from the stereo on a new vehicle, they've removed the parking sensors. There's so many things that it feels that
they're constantly trying to cost cut and save here and there, that I'm like, "Ah, aren't
cars supposed to be better?" There are a lot of great things about it. There are a lot of things that I do like, and there's some things I'm gonna miss. The fact that there are so
many build quality issues, so many refinement issues, it just, it's not it for me anymore. No, my friends, my new vehicle is a little
bit more controversial. (chuckling) - [Camera person] Uh oh. (car engine whirring)
That is a tight turn. (car tires squealing)
That is a tight turn. (laughing)
- [Friend] Whoa! Austin, chill out. (car engine purring)