I wanted to actually start uh with a challenge, 
a little puzzle. People are probably familiar   with the tetrahedron, and here's a square based 
pyramid, so the triangular faces are both the same   on these shapes. The challenge for you, and we'll
perhaps solve it at the end of the video, is if I   put these two shapes together tell me how many 
faces there are on the shape that I would make by fusing two of the triangular faces together. 
Okay, there's your challenge. You might think, oh,  it doesn't sound terribly difficult for us 
Numberphile- so but we'll look at that at   the end. What I wanted to talk about in this video 
was an interesting thing I discovered working with   a sculptor that lives nearby my house here; 
he's very famous actually, Conrad Shawross,   and he loves using mathematical shapes in the 
sculptures that he makes. And one of the early   challenges he faced, he realised that using a bit 
of mathematics actually cut down the amount of   work that he had to do as a sculptor. So he's been 
really obsessed with this shape the tetrahedron;   he sort of thought this was like one of the 
great building blocks of nature, and indeed   he's right. The ancient Greeks of course thought 
the platonic solids were the kind of atoms that   made up the universe. So at that time we thought 
earth, wind, fire and water were the atoms of   the universe; and each of those would have a 
shape. Earth, that was the shape of the cube;  water, the icosahedron, made out of 20 equilateral 
triangles; air was the octahedron made out of   eight equilateral triangles; and fire was this 
shape here, the tetrahedron, the kind of spikiest   of the shapes. Of course we've got one platonic 
solid left over which is the dodecahedron,   and Plato left that to be the shape of the 
universe, which is kind of interesting.   But Conrad Shawcross was- was interested 
as a sculptor in, yeah, well what about   taking this atomic shape the tetrahedron and and 
seeing what he can build out of it. So one of his   very first projects, he built 2,000 tetrahedrons 
and set himself the task of trying to see   what he could build out of these tetrahedrons. 
And actually he had a deadline and suddenly the   deadline looms and he's got to try and find how 
to put these 2,000 tetrahedron together; but then   he talked to a mathematician who said, well you 
realise you don't actually have 2,000 objects   you've got to find how to put them together? In 
fact you have a much smaller number of building   blocks. Because if you put two tetrahedron 
together for example there's really only   one shape you can make out of that, there isn't 
another way I can put these tetrahedron together   and get a different sort of shape. So 
already actually you've halved the problem;   and and this is the power of symmetry, you 
know, and that's my area of expertise, symmetry.  Symmetry often is a clever way of cutting down a 
problem which at first sight seems like there are,   you know, 2,000 different things you've got to 
put together. But then he realised, no actually,   you can halve that. There are only 1,000 objects 
that you need to consider, I've just got to put   these together. But the mathematician said, no 
in fact you can cut it down even more because   if I have three tetrahedron there's only one 
way I can put three tetrahedron together.   So here are my little paper tetrahedron I made 
earlier for you. Here's our two put together;   but actually there's only one way I can attach 
a third object, and what I make is this kind of   weird shape almost little like a boat isn't it? 
So you might say, okay well that's one way to   put the tetrahedron together but maybe I can 
fuse this on a different edge - and look I've   got something different. But of course the point 
is that symmetry means that I can turn this and   I've always got that little boat structure. So it 
doesn't matter how many different ways I try, the   symmetry means I'll always get the same object.
So Conrad used this as a shortcut in a way,   the symmetry of how you put these together, 
to say I don't need to consider 2,000 I   only need to consider a third of that and 
use this as my basic building block; and   that's what he used to make some of his uh first 
interesting structures out of this tetrahedron. (Brady: But if you go up to four then it- 
then you lose it? Four you can start-) Yeah then you start to um have uh different 
directions that you're coming out, and so this is   really the basic building block for his sculptures 
is this particular one here - but then there are   new decisions you've got to make. And what 
he found was there were interesting tendrils;   quite unexpected shapes that emerged out 
of this. If you look at Conrad's work   you see just amazing kind of weird directions that 
he's been taken on by this particular object. And   recently he's discovered a kind of new sort of 
shape which I actually had not been aware of;   because one of the interesting thing is with 
platonic solids, which of them can you pack   and fill space with? A cube? Clearly you can 
stack cubes and and fill the whole of space, but   do any of the other objects actually fill 
space? You can take a a slightly non-symmetrical   tetrahedron, squash it a bit and fill space with 
that. But with the actual symmetrical tetrahedron,   if you try and fill space it doesn't work, and 
there's always kind of a little bit left over.   And Conrad's made this very interesting 
shape that looks like it's trying to be a   an icosahedron, it's sort of building up lots 
of triangles, but they don't quite fit together   and there's kind of an interesting gap. I 
think that's very interesting, an artist   using these shapes to sort of discover very a
asymmetrical shape made out of these tetrahedrons.   It looks like it's trying to be something 
symmetrical but doesn't quite work, it's kind of   interesting, the sweet spot between something that 
is trying to be perfect but it isn't quite. (Does   that tetrahedral boat have a name?) - It really 
should do doesn't it? I mean- but now you've   challenged me with that I don't know what that 
would be called - perhaps people in the comments   down below, either we can christen it, give it a 
name, or maybe somebody does know a name for that. Perhaps it could be called the Shawcross shape   or something.
- (It is boat-y.) It is a little bit boat-y. 
So I think it's interesting   how you can use symmetry very often to to 
cut down the hard work you've got to do;   and and very often in when I'm looking 
at a particular mathematical problem,   sometimes you're looking at an equation um 
and it can be solved in many different ways,   uh but spotting that actually all of the solutions 
are kind of symmetrical versions of each other   is often a way of cutting down the work. You 
just have to find one solution and then use the   symmetry to find all of the others. So that's a 
very common trick in mathematics and in science. But it was intriguing, it was the first time 
I'd seen it used by a sculptor as a- you know,   oh yeah use the symmetry and cut down the work.
- (What work was he cutting down Professor?   Was it- was it- was) (he having to cast less pieces 
or something like that?)  - Well he'd actually made all of these 2,000 
cubes out of wood; but what he'd cut down was   just- what he needed to put together was these 
three and then they were the building blocks   from which everything else- you know, there was 
nothing new that would emerge if he hadn't have   done that. At first I think there may be many more 
possibilities but the symmetry showed, no, all of   these are actually examples of the same thing. So 
maybe we should come back to our little challenge   because that was about putting shapes together and 
understanding what shape emerges by putting two   together. So at first sight you may say this is 
pretty obvious - this shape has 5 faces, this one   has 4 faces, when I put these together I lose two 
faces. So 5 plus 4 is 9, so I should get 7 faces.   So what's the big uh problem? But 
something rather curious happens   because when I put these together I lose two 
more faces! Because look at this - these two   line up, and so these two actually become one 
face, so this object actually has 5 faces: 1, 2,   3, 4, 5 faces.
So that's a little bit of a surprise that comes out of that. I hope you 
perhaps experienced an 'oh, that's unexpected'.  And what's curious about this is this was set in 
one of the SAT exams uh in America, just to see   how good you are at conceptual visualisation. And 
they didn't realise that um- this kind of rather   curious answer. So the the people who said 7
got the score and those who said 5 um were given   no marks at all, but actually it turns out 
rather curiously that when you put these together   um this shape actually only has 5 faces. In 
this shape you've got um 2 faces on this side   and 2 that faces on this side that fuse. So so 
actually this - which you might have first thought   counted as uh 2 different faces - you've 
got 1, 2, 3, the square on the bottom,   and the last triangle there, 5.
- (Totally got me.) I know!
- (I would   have got the mark in the SATs though.)
- Exactly! That was what was so crazy.  See the links in the description for 
more videos with Marcus du Sautoy   plus links to his books and theatre productions 
- other things he's up to. ...so for example   you might want to know - well is this 
particular statement provable from the axioms?