In late August 2023, Huawei quietly-not-so-quietly 
started selling its own phone chips again. Without much fanfare, the Huawei Mate 60 Pro 
went on sale in its online store. And what   everyone's talking about is the phone's SOC: the 
Kirin 9000s (麒麟9000s), a 7-nanometer class chip. Huawei didn't say who made this SOC,   but it is most likely our old friend SMIC. The 
whole thing has turned into a real kerfuffle. In this video we are going to talk about 
the Mate 60 Pro and its Kirin 9000s. ## Another Note A note before we start, this is a current event. More news will break, and that news may invalidate 
what I will have to say in this video. I talked to   a few people for their thoughts but the only 
information I have is what everyone else has. Again like last time, I am not interested in 
"American Failure" doomers, China triumphalism,   or any other general nastiness. I want to remind 
you. One day we are back. The next day it's over. I also want to politely remind you 
that 7 nanometers, 5 nanometers,   and other such labels have no bearing 
on the transistors' actual sizes. These are marketing names assigned to classes 
of chips. The transistors are not actually   7 nanometers apart. The name signals a 
class of performance. Okay that’s that. And finally, please be civil in 
the comments. If you are angry,   take a deep breath, and go do 
something else. Life is too short. Now that we have acknowledged all of this 
… again … let us break this down together. ## The Phone and the Chip The Mate Pro 60 is a very nice phone. According to TechInsights, the Kirin 
9000s is a 107 square millimeter die. This is about 2% larger than Kirin 9000 and   Kirin 9000E - which were the last 
leading edge chips Huawei shipped. That chip was briefly produced 
using TSMC's 5 nanometer process   until American sanctions ended that association. This new 7 nanometer class chip is about 5-6 years 
behind the leading edge. TSMC has been shipping   3-nanometer class chips throughout this year in 
preparation for the September iPhone 15 launch. Teardowns and speed tests imply that the 
Kirin 9000s supports 5G connectivity. However,   Huawei seems like they are trying to hide that. In a recent press release mentioning the phone,   they did not bring up 5G support. And the 
phone OS itself reports 4G on the surface. I am curious why Huawei seems to be 
hiding the 5G functionality. We know   Apple has been trying to ninja their way around 
Qualcomm's modem patents for a very long time. If I were Qualcomm, I would give 
this phone to my best patent lawyers. The SoC’s CPU core is a customization 
on top of Arm IP. The GPU appears to be   a new custom design done by Huawei or HiSilicon. The new design caused weird texture 
errors when playing popular games   like Genshin Impact. Those of 
course will be fixed in time. Everyone is talking about the 
yields and indeed that's the big   thing we all want to know. Dylan 
Patel of SemiAnalysis wrote that   SMIC’s early yields with this node are 
likely to be far higher than we expect. Yields always start low, but ramp up 
as the fab improves. TSMC scaled N7's   yields far enough to supply an iPhone launch. The   same for SMIC. The more phones Huawei 
sells, the faster that will happen. All in all, we know very little about this 
chip. Very little has been released and I   suspect that that is more a feature than a bug. 
We will probably learn more later but let me   be clear. This 7nm chip is real and the node 
that made it looks to be really, really good. ## Why Are We Surprised? The first thing that I thought when I first heard 
about this was: Why are we all so surprised? In the last video I did on this, I 
said that we should not be surprised   to see a Hisilicon chip coming with 
this 7nm SMIC N+2 process node. I should have been more clear in 
the video that Hisilicon is Huawei.   So I was saying that we should expect 
a 7nm chip for a Huawei phone soon. Furthermore, early last month, 
Nikkei Asia mentioned offhandedly   that SMIC was working with Huawei 
on a new 5G chip. Now it is here. We first heard news of the SMIC N+2 
process in July 2022. At the time,   the process node was being 
used for a Bitcoin miner. This makes sense to me because 
Bitcoin miners have repetitive   structures so they are good use 
cases for improving the node. A phone SOC like the Kirin 9000s on the 
other hand is a far more complicated chip   to produce. The fact that they have been able 
to do it and do it so well shows the tremendous   progress that Co-CEO Liang Mong-song and SMIC 
have been able to produce in just about a year. ## More Chips are Coming Second thing, we should not be surprised 
to see even more advanced chips coming. In January 2022, legendary TSMC R&D director 
Dr. Burn Lin - the father of 193 nanometer   immersion lithography and a colleague of 
Liang Mong-song - said in an interview that   SMIC can fab even 5 nanometer-class 
chips with only multi-patterning. Immersion lithography is the key technology 
here. It is maybe 1-2 decades old but they   still are perhaps the best lithography machines 
in the world. They matter more than we think. The United States banned EUV lithography exports, 
but that was perhaps a red herring. I have been   thinking recently about slowing EUV lithography 
insertion. Perhaps EUV as we know it today lacks   the throughput, power, and cost requirements 
to be competitive for full utilization. In such a case, 193-nanometer immersion 
machines like the Twinscan NXT 2000i and   higher will still do 70-80% 
of the litho work for Intel,   TSMC, and Samsung in their latest nodes. 
Perhaps even for the foreseeable future. The administration stopped short of a 193i 
ban at the time apparently because they   felt that Japan and the Netherlands would 
not come along. It was not until June 30,   2023 - a year later - that the 
Netherlands and Japan finally   joined together with the United States 
to impose these export restrictions. And ASML was definitely unhappy about 
it. They are trying to sell all the DUV   immersion machines they can 
before the end of the year. What this means is that SMIC still 
has plenty of these machines to ramp   up 7 nanometer production and make the 
move for 5. Keeping in mind that these   machines do break down, need spare parts, 
maintenance, sanctions can expand, etc. Ergo, I fully expect a 5-nanometer class Huawei 
chip coming down the line - probably in 1-2   years. No doubt that they already have 
it specced out in some Huawei/SMIC lab. And when that news breaks, I will probably 
have to make this exact same video again. ## A China-Only Supply Line is Emerging This Mate 60 phone is more than 
just a great, high-performing chip. It is also ensconced within an ecosystem 
of domestic Chinese suppliers and they   have come together to create a phone 
that is feature-parity with the market. Bloomberg mentioned the phone's many domestic 
suppliers. This includes the radio frequency   front-end module and the satellite communications 
modem for the phone's satellite calls feature. With the exception of the memory which 
seems to have come from SK Hynix - oh whoops how did THAT happen?? - the whole 
phone is basically a China-only ecosystem. The pieces are set for a complete, 
self-contained ecosystem within the   People's Republic of China to produce all sorts 
of domestic electronics - smartphone SOCs,   CPUs, edge AI NPUs, GPUs ... and AI 
accelerators. And therein lies the rub. ## AI is the Next Big Move At the end of it, a phone 
chip on par with something   released five years ago is not a huge deal. Well, it is probably going to be 
a huge deal for Qualcomm, Apple,   and MediaTek. Ming-chi Kuo posted that Qualcomm 
sells tens of millions of chips for Huawei phones. These sales are likely to be replaced by the   new Kirin 9000s and others 
like it. And as Dylan notes,   every non-Chinese semiconductor maker and Apple 
will lose business to this new domestic chip. SMIC will probably be busy fulfilling Huawei 
orders for the next year or so. But if I were   them I would be immediately looking to find new 
N+2 node customers in high powered computing. A partner to make a domestic 
AI accelerator - a Chinese   version of the Nvidia A100 or TPU, so to say. So I fully expect to hear news of a Chinese 7 
nanometer AI accelerator coming in 1-2 years. Perhaps designed by Biren, Baidu, Alibaba 
Cloud or Tencent. Unless sanctions intervene. ## What China Does Next Now what should China do next? The Chinese are building up their native 
semiconductor and technology ecosystem   and it is real. Their work deserves praise, 
especially after being so hard hit by sanctions. The main goal - from a semiconductor 
manufacturing perspective - should   be widely distribute this phone to as many 
people as possible. Scale means everything. Millions of units are being sold right 
now, but we need millions more. They need   to be selling this phone and its chips 
not only to Chinese domestic consumers   but also to Europeans, Australians, 
Southeast Asians, and Latin Americans. This might be challenging since 
Huawei phones don't ship with   Google products. But Huawei has been 
doing a lot of influencer marketing,   trying to get the word out to people on how 
to put Google products back on Huawei phones. Every export sale not only is a loss for Western 
phone makers, but also strengthens SMIC. The more   chips sold, the more chips SMIC makes. The more 
chips they make, the faster they can raise yield   and achieve profitability. And with that, they 
can more quickly fund their move to 5 nanometers. Also, SMIC should start reviewing and replicating   the advanced packaging technology 
stack. In the packaging world,   phone chips emphasize thinness and heat. So they 
use thinner things like Chip Scale Packaging. But if we want to get to what is next 
- which is advanced AI - then there   are other things to consider like 
data bandwidth. These require new   packaging architectures like chiplets and 2.5D 
die-stacking. Again, not impossible for them. The Chinese Government will also 
need to shore up their domestic   semiconductor manufacturing equipment 
ecosystem. That means replacing ASML,   Applied Materials, Tokyo Electron, Lam 
Research, and all the metrology guys. Every piece of foreign equipment 
probably has a kill switch back   home. I am pretty sure that ASML does. 
So better start writing those checks. ## What America Does Next Now how should the United States respond? For more, I’m bringing in guest 
correspondent and US-China tech   relations expert Jordan Schneider of 
ChinaTalk. I’m a longtime fan of his   work and I think you’d all enjoy his 
popular podcast and youtube channel In the rollout to the October 7th restrictions, 
the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and   Security laid out the justification for cutting 
off foreign support for “advanced semiconductors,   defined as logic ICs at 16/14nm or below or 
using non-planar transistor architecture.” > “The restrictions implemented in this 
rule follow extensive United States   government consideration of the 
impact of advanced computing ICs,   “supercomputers,” and semiconductor manufacturing 
equipment on enabling military modernization,   including the development of weapons of mass 
destruction (WMD), and human rights abuses." Translation: the US government 
has intelligence that makes clear   that China getting the ability to 
manufacture advanced logic chips   has significant implications for the 
regional military balance of power. Given the progress SMIC and Huawei have 
made, on the current trajectory if the   US government believes that a Chinese 
7 nanometer node remains an eventual   threat to its national security ... well then 
they might try a little harder to stop it. This requires a better understanding 
of what semiconductor manufacturing   equipment is still coming through. 
SMIC depends on foreign equipment   for this node. Domestic suppliers remain 
years behind - no matter the propaganda. Today, equipment companies like Applied, Lam 
Research, Tokyo Electron and KLA are able to   sell pretty much their entire suite 
of tools. Most tools for deposition,   etch, metrology, epitaxy and so on used for 7nm 
and even 5nm can also plausibly be used in 28nm. These tools are being sold to the likes 
of SMIC ostensibly for use at lagging edge   nodes though they are almost certainly being 
repurposed to make chips like the Kirin 9000s. It’s not too late to ensure that China isn’t 
able to develop leading edge capacity at   scale. The US government, in cooperation with 
allies in Japan, the Netherlands, and Germany, should consider tighter export controls that 
target the tools currently being repurposed,   like Argon Fluoride Immersion 
lithography, mask, and CMP equipment,   as well as far less liberal use of licenses 
to firms like SMIC on the entity list. Thanks Jordan for your thoughts. ## Conclusion In my video about Korean 
semiconductors, I mention that in 1986, Samsung shocked the Japanese with 
their 1 megabit DRAM chip, closing   the Korean-Japanese semiconductor 
gap from 5 years to just one. Two years later in 1988, Samsung then brings 
out their 4 megabit chip - pulling them to   parity with the Japanese. Japan 
from there on began to crumble. The Kirin 9000s is like that. A visible 
mark on technology history. A shock in   the ecosystem that ripples far beyond 
this small semiconductor neighborhood. The People's Republic of China is taking 
the Korean approach to semiconductor   manufacturing. It worked for South Korea. 
It is working for China too. So now what?