(bright music) - Okay, so Apple had a nice
short little 30 minute event today announcing just a
bunch of new iPad stuff. Now, this was the
longest they've ever gone without updating anything iPad related, so they had some cooking to do. But the thing is, and I feel like we've been
saying this for years, it kind of doesn't matter how
powerful they make the iPad. It's still an iPad,
right? It's still iPadOS. And we've seen gigantic
improvements in the M-series chips and these iPads are like the most powerful chips ever on paper, but they're still iPads. So the last thing we
need after all this time is just another spec-bumped iPad, right? Well, let me introduce
you to the newest iPads. So first up, there's a new iPad Air which follows the script of
bringing a few things down from the previous iPad Pros, and, of course, you
know, making it available for this lower price. So it graduates from the
M1 to the M2 chip inside, it starts up at 128 gigs of storage now, and it moves the webcam
to the landscape bezel where it belongs. It gets faster wifi, and for the first time
there is a larger one now, so they're calling it the
11-inch and the 13-inch iPad Air. I had to clarify it just because the last one was 10.9 inches; so are they just simplifying the name, like is it actually bigger? And turns out, yeah, there is just a little bit more screen here. Great. But other than that,
it's pretty predictable. It's a spec bump. Like this is
sticking to the script here. I think I could hand you
the newest iPad right now and you couldn't really tell the new Air from the old
Air just looking at it other than if you're
holding the bigger one, or if you recognized the
super exciting new colors. I mean, hopefully you
could hear my sarcasm through the screen, but
there's Blue, Purple, Starlight, and Space Gray. So it's 599 for the small one
and 799 for the bigger one. But then, we also got a
more significant update to the iPad Pros. This is where they push
the limits of the iPad. This is where they wanna show
their absolute best stuff and the best possible tablets. And, man, if we just ignore
the software for a second, these new iPads are ridiculous. So first of all, they
start off by revealing that these new iPads, the
11-inch and the 13-inch, are the new thinnest Apple
devices ever made, ever. That's including phones, that's including like
old iPods and everything. The 11-inch is 5.3 millimeters thin, and the 13-inch is 5.1 millimeters thin; so that's literally thinner
than the iPod Nano ever was. It's nuts. It just looks ridiculous. It's crazy to hold. It's also lighter, as you might imagine. It just kind of feels like this impossible sheet of metal in your hand. I don't know if anyone
ever looked at an iPad Pro and asked for it to be thinner, but that's what they went and did. What could possibly go wrong? Fun fact, this also now
means that the iPad Air is heavier than the iPad Pro just to make sure we keep a
mess of an iPad lineup going. The new Pro also gets a
new chip and a new screen. So Apple took this event to introduce us to the next generation of Apple silicon with the M4 chip, and this iPad is the only
thing that it's in right now. It's just the iPad with M4. So that gives it, stop
me if it sounds familiar, even more ridiculous amounts of power in such a tiny physical
and thermal envelope, especially since we came from M2. So it's a more power
efficient 3 nanometer chip. The CPU core is net out to
like 50% faster than M2. The GPU is up to four times faster. And they're saying that they can do the same performance output
as M2 with half the power, so it's super efficient. There's an improved neural
engine. There's better cooling. Now, again, I don't know who
was asking for a thinner iPad, but there's kind of no denying that it's at least just
physically impressive to look at. And this is the type of
thing, this is the form factor that is specifically
enabled by the M4 chip. Apple is quoting basically the same battery
life as the last iPad Pro, and I have to assume that there's significantly less physical
battery in the thing 'cause it's so much thinner. So that just basically
means Apple's going, "Hey, we think that that
was enough battery life "in the last gen, so we're
just gonna match that "and that means we can go
way thinner with less battery because the new chip is more efficient." So then, the new display,
this is another thing that is actually kind of
enabled also by the M4 chip. Sometimes it seems like
they're just saying that, but this is also true. So these are OLED iPads now. Both sizes, it's the
exact same set of features across both iPads, which kind of makes the $300 price difference between them a little bit tougher. But yeah, OLEDs on both the new iPad Pros. And OLED is awesome, right? We already knew this. We've
had OLED phones forever. The pitch black blacks, the
individually lit pixels, the super awesome vibrance. All of the OLED stuff is great, and we were excited to finally see it in a relatively gigantic
display that is an iPad. But making a huge OLED
that's also incredibly bright was a challenge that
required just a little bit of extra engineering, a
little extra ingenuity. So they put together
something that they're calling a tandem OLED display,
which honestly to me, I think this is maybe
the most interesting part of the whole tablet event today. So you can basically think of it as two different OLED displays
stacked on top of each other, and then the new display driver on M4 can address both layers simultaneously. So that's what's allowing them to get really high local brightness,
and that's the spec now. That's 1000 nits of peak
full screen brightness and 1600 nits of peak HDR brightness on an OLED on an iPad sized screen. And in person, it looks, well, it looks like a really bright OLED. It looks super colorful,
really bright, inky blacks. In this hands-on area I got
to spend like 30 minutes in, it's not gonna look its best and there was crazy lighting everywhere; but I will be getting
my hands on it to review and I intend to dive in and find out if there are any downsides,
but it looks pretty great here. And then, also weirdly, they announced a Nano texture matte
version of the iPad Pro; so now there's a matte Pro display XDR. I would be very careful about ordering this particular option,
based on what I've seen. I can see here that it
is definitely better at dealing with reflections
than a normal display. That's awesome. But just like a desktop
version, that is at the expense of a little bit of sharpness and contrast. You know, the blacks don't
look nearly as black to me even at zero degrees off axis. And I also have to wonder about durability because the Pro display XDR is very picky about which microfiber cloth you use, and you can literally ruin
it if you use the wrong one. And with this iPad, you know,
I can feel the difference between the soft touch
texture of the Nano texture and the glossy bezels,
and I just have a feeling that you're only gonna
be able to use or rely on the microfiber that comes
in the box with this thing. And not only does it cost an extra $100 to get the Nano texture; it's also only available on the 1 terabyte and 2 terabyte highest end models. So I think they know that people shouldn't just walk in
the store and just get it 'cause it's on the base one. So yeah, just be careful with that one. But you know what probably
made the most headlines out of all the stuff announced today is a spec-bumped Apple Pencil. There's now a new Apple Pencil Pro, and it looks exactly the same
as the previous Apple Pencil but with this new text on the back that says Pencil Pro on it now. Unfortunately, that's
still not the eraser. But yeah, this new Apple Pencil Pro has a haptic motor inside,
so it supports Find My now. There's also a new squeeze
sensor in the barrel for activating tools in different
apps that will support it, and a new gyroscope actually
makes it rotation sensitive. And I was trying this,
it's surprisingly precise, like really, really good. So if you're an artist, not like me, you know, maybe you're doing a barrel roll with certain drawing apps
or calligraphy applications for the $129 that it costs
to get one of these things. But another incredibly inconvenient note, this new Pro Pencil is only compatible with the newest recently
announced iPad Pro or iPad Air. Because when they moved that
webcam to the long side, that's also where a lot of
the magnets for lining up and charging a pencil were. So they had to redesign
the magnets up there and that's now a different array, so it's only compatible
with the newest iPads. Why didn't they just move it to the other side for charging? I don't know. Maybe that
makes too much sense. There's also a new magic keyboard as well. Still ungodly expensive,
but if you get the new one, it's also, it's lighter
than the previous gen, the track pad is bigger, and there's a whole
function row at the top now, which actually that is super useful. And the pass through
charging is even faster; apparently it's 60 watts
through the pins in the back. But all that being said, at
the end of the day, guess what? We just got another set
of spec-bumped iPads. They are metal rectangles
with incredible power and efficiency in our hands
that are just still iPads. And I don't know how many
more times I can say this, but like taking advantage
of all of this power is nearly impossible. There are a tiny sliver of
apps that actually make it feel like worth upgrading. There's almost nothing these iPads can do that my M1 iPad Pro can't do. And this isn't even to
downplay the hardware 'cause the hardware is actually amazing. That's where the difference comes from. It's got this super bright
high resolution OLED display with pitch black blacks, this M4 chip with ridiculous power, and efficiency, new CPU, new,
GPU better neural engine. I've never wanted an iPad to be thinner, but that line about them wanting the iPad to feel like a magic sheet of glass really resonated with
this model in particular, even if you do feel like
you could snap it in half the whole time. It's just the awkwardness of this one mainly comes from timing
'cause I think we all know, well, it's already been announced. WWDC, their Worldwide
Developers Conference, is right around the
corner, and we all know and expect them to update
all of the software across all their stuff: a new iOS, a new iPadOS,
so I guess iPadOS 18. And whatever Apple is gonna
decide to do with that is around the corner. So we've got these new
iPads shipping next week, but all the new software,
that could be awesome. Well, that's this summer. And this feels like it could
be one of the biggest updates yet to these iPads. You know, it's Apple showing their hand at how many more AI
features they wanna build in and how many more
features people wanna add that lets this be their primary computer, maybe more Siri improvements,
all of this stuff. So in this awkward meantime, here we have these really, really impressive
spec-bumped iPad Pros, the most powerful iPads of all time, the thinnest Apple devices
literally ever made; but the list of things
it can do is the same as my three-year-old M1, just saying. What a time to be alive. Speaking of announcements, though, Ridge and I have finally launched our first product together. So it starts with the Ridge Wallet, you know, the minimal high
quality industrial wallet, the more modern way to
carry cash and cards. Well, you might know I joined Ridge as the chief creative
partner earlier this year and we're finally releasing
our first MKBHD gear together. So one of the first things we wanted to do is just make MKBHD versions
of some of the existing stuff. It felt too obvious, so that's
exactly what we're doing. So I love carbon fiber and matte black; I don't know if you knew
that about me already, but those are my base inspirations
for these two wallets. So the MKBHD Carbon Fiber 3k, this is just a bunch of lightweight, ultra durable carbon fiber with the logo. And then, the Matte
Black Everything Wallet, this is just aluminum but it's got this black oil filled engravement
print, which is so sick. And then, these wallets also come with a deboss MKBHD money clip
or you can do a cash strap. You can also attach these or detach them. You could also do an
attachment for an AirTag, so just make sure you don't lose it. Or, you can do like a Find My card, which I've done as well. But yeah, I just carry this
in my wallet all the time and I definitely won't lose it. And, of course, if you don't
like my designs, that's fine. Ridge has like 50 plus other
designs in their catalog. They've got NFL licensed team stuff if you wanna rock your team. The store is endless. And if you even think it
could be time to upgrade, it's a great time to just try because if you don't
love it after 99 days, you can literally send it
right back, no questions asked. Pretty sick. And I'll let you in on a little secret. It's 30% off the new gear right now, but also any style if you order a wallet and a key holder at the same time. So just the two together, boom, 30% off. And also 10% off whatever
you want at ridge.com/mkbhd. You're welcome. Yeah, I'm excited to
be launching this stuff and also a bunch more
coming up later this year. I won't say too much about it, but you can sign up at the same link if you wanna get product updates. I've told them just to only email you about that if you sign up. But yeah, let me know what you think of these new iPads in general. I mean, it's kind of an
awkward waiting period until we get all the new iOS 18 stuff, but let me know what you think, new thinner than ever iPads. Thanks for watching. Catch
you guys on the next one. Peace.