- I pride myself on
high quality tech tips, but those take like 10, 15 minutes, you guys don't have time for that. Could they be distilled into
more like 10 or 15 seconds? To find out, we took some of the best TechToks, that is to say TikToks with tech tips, and we're gonna tell you
guys if they check out. Starting with this pile
of broken cable boxes. - [Alex] Yep. - This is gonna be interesting. Unlike our sponsor CableMod,
they're just cables, but they look fantastic. CableMod allows you to
personalize the look of your PC with custom colored cables. Try out their configurator and get a realistic preview of your cables at the link down below. (upbeat music) One of the most fun
things for me about this is I haven't actually seen
any of these TechToks, and our first one is from Dylan. - @dylan_844. - Got it, there's a lot of Dylan's. - [Alex] I had to go to the
thrift store and pick up these old DirectTV DVRs. - This TikTok suggests
that a great way to get a cheap hard drive is to go to
the thrift store and buy one of these old DVRs for as
little as five, or we paid $10, then strip it down to
extract the Numi hard drive. Dylan suggests that you can
find drives that are as large as one or even two terabytes
inside these units, which would be one heck of a value. And we can actually already
see in this one that Dylan might be onto something. One thing Dylan glossed over in his very concise guide though is that those are security screws. (saw revving) - Okay just hold on there for a second. That's not very safe. You can hold that a bit better. - [Linus] Oh yeah, not bad. (saw cutting) - Oh yeah. - [Alex] You want some gloves? I'm gonna get you some gloves. - [Linus] Nah, I'm fine. (saw cutting) I am very covered in metal shards. - [Alex] Can I suggest- - [Linus] Nah, I'm good. (Saw cutting) (metal clanking) Now it's time to find out what I got for my $30 starting with the gray one. That definitely has a hard drive inside. Wow, that is a dusty disgusting machine. And sure enough, SATA hard-drive, got some hot glue on the
connectors to make sure that they don't come out. I've seen that trick before. And oh, that's a disappointment. I don't even know what a DB 35.2 is, but I know 160 gigabytes when I see it. That's not worth the $5 Dylan promised, let alone the 10 that I paid. This is like those videos where you just open up Pokemon card
packs or Kinder Surprises except dirtier and way grosser. (metal clanking) There we go. Hey, 500 Gigs this time. I mean, I actually don't
know that I would pay $10 for a 500 Gig drive, but that's a lot better than
paying $10 for 160 Gig drive. Am I right? (metal clanking) Now for door number three 500 Gigs. What is a Pipeline hard drive? Man, these OEM only models
that I've never heard of. Very, very strange. Still, this is at least worth extracting. So we've gonna go ahead and take out two standard
Phillips head screws right here and here. Then do a little bit of
negotiating because the other side is actually held down by
these little bent metal tabs. And a one. (metal clanking) - [Alex] That's probably
great for the hard drive. - Oh no, that's probably fine. Honestly, actually, the way
they validate these things, it's like crazy. A few more screws to remove
the hard drive from it's sled. Then we pop this guy off a voila, completely standard 500 Gig drive. All in all we salvaged 1.16
terabytes of hard drives for about 23 US dollars,
not the worst deal on Earth, but Dylan failed to mention a few things. The tools required to
actually extract the drives. The precautions that should
be taken when working with equipment that has
exposed power supply circuitry, like these DVRs. The incredibly important step
of checking the model number of the units so that you can find out how much hard drive space
it has before you buy it. And of course, the minor detail that
these hard drives have been in use for oftentimes a very long time under non-ideal conditions. And the odds of them actually
working are less than 100%. In fact, only two of them spun up and
were detected by our system. And only one of them, a 500 Gig model managed to
pass a short drive self test. So overall a lot more creative than shucking external drives, but these omissions are gonna
cost Dylan_844 a few points. I give this TechTok a 7/10. But if (metal falling)
adding sketchy hard drives to your system isn't the best idea. What can you do if your drive is full? Well, one idea is to just free up space on your existing machine. We watched countless TikToks and this one by @hardwaresavvy is definitely the best, but also the most infuriating, because he almost got it right. - [@hardwaresavvy] How to
instantly free up gigabytes of space from your PC. And you'll be surprised
to find a lot of apps that are taking up a lot of
space that you haven't used in a long time like this one here. - This is all fine. - [@hardwaresavvy] In the next video, I'm gonna show you a tool
that's gonna allow you to free up tens of gigabytes of data that you never thought
existed on your hard. - He shows WinDirStat briefly, No video about it ever comes out. (Alex laughing) - Okay, uninstalling unused programs and cleaning up temporary
files are both a good start. But the truth is that four
Gigs isn't even enough to install many game patches these days, let alone the entire game. And that's where the type of
tool that tech savvy showed us, but then didn't demonstrate
how to use is much more useful. We're gonna go to Ninite.com,
select WinDirStat, get your Ninite, and we're gonna install one of those tools and show you guys how to use it. Now that WinDirStat is
installed all we need to do is wait for the analysis to run. You have 18 and a half gigs
in your recycle bin, Alex. When the analysis is done, you get this great
visualization that shows your entire drive as a
mosaic of little squares and rectangles. Then if you select a particular folder, you can actually see
an outline of every one of the individual files
inside that folder. And that's what's really
great about a tool like this is instead of only
targeting temporary files that the operating system itself created and knows are temporary, it can target files that
you created temporarily and then totally forgot about. Overall, we were able to
free up almost 30 gigabytes of unneeded data, so I give this TechTok
a 10/10 for the idea. The implementation where
he doesn't actually make the video he promised, drags it down to about a three. (upbeat music) We have no idea why these
videos are so big on TikToK. This is not hacking. It's the easiest cheapest content ever, but for whatever reason, it
racks up millions of likes. So they're fine. We tried it. But that wasn't really
the point of this segment. The point of this segment
is to try out some of the top TikTok hacks
that are about as hacking as what I just did was. (keyboard clicking) Our first hack from
@dreaaaaas has three quarters of a million likes and
almost a 100,000 shares. - [@dreaaaaas] You go up to this top bar and you type in prnt.sc/ any two letter and any four numbers, and you press enter, and it will give you a screen
shot from somebody's phone. - Okay, so we're just going
to an image uploading service, typing in random characters, and hoping to creep someone's picture. - [Alex] Yeah, so I did
this for about 20 minutes. There were a couple that we can't show, but those were just stuff
like full GPA breakdowns, English proficiency tests, and someone's onboarding
for a job in India as a mechanical engineer where
they were making $3 an hour, also lots of invoices,
and some Bitcoin wallets, all of which are not things
you should be putting on here. - Okay, so what's happening here is people are using more
advanced screen capture software than what's included with their computer. Snipping tool, which comes with Windows will
allow you to drag a window and then save that file, but it only saves it locally. Some of these other programs
like ShareX, for example, have features that allow
you to automatically upload the image to an
image sharing service, and then they will actually take that URL, automatically copy it to your clipboard, and then allow you to
paste it and share it with someone else. It's very convenient when
the images you're capturing aren't confidential or private, but this goes to show
you how easily people could stumble across
them, whether by accident, or in this case on purpose. - [Alex] Oh, do you want
the best one that I found? - Not porn is it? I'd be enjoying a glass of wine, sitting back in a black leather armchair watching a fireplace while
the walls in the room I am in are covered in screaming
and wailing faces. Yeah, definitely a way to kill an hour if you have nothing else to do, and unlike any of other hacks, you aren't actually accessing
compromised information someone didn't intend to share with you. I'm giving it a 10. Time for our next hack. Everyone knows about inspect element, yep. It allows you to edit the
contents of a webpage. But if you go to console and
write document.designMode="on", you can edit just about
anything on the page by typing normally. It's still not a hack, but if you're into doctoring screenshots and causing mayhem within
your social circle, I could see this one coming in handy. I give this one a nine. It's just so convenient. I can share this with Steve right now. Steve just got back to me, "WTF. What the (beeping) is this lol? Joke or no?" I am literally the worst friend. I dropped everything and
immediately changed the password in the checking account. Can I upgrade that one to a 10/10 time? - [Alex] Yep. - Time for our next hack? - [Alex] This one's my favorite. - Oh God, okay. I see where this is going. Time to hide this homework folder. Customize, change icon,
pick an icon no one could ever look for, yep. Hidden forever. Hiding in plain sight. It's not hacking, but I give it an 8.5/10. - [Alex] Really? - Well the thing about
hiding a folder is that if whoever's looking for it knows how to show hidden folders, they will be able to find that one. So you can see it's as simple as changing my file explorer settings to
show hidden folders and boom. Now MSN Network shows up
and you can see it's kind of grayed out. That's what hidden folders look like. So me, an intellectual, I'm gonna go, "Someone was trying to hide this." Oh my (beeping). A better way to hide
it is to just leave it in plain sight then and encrypt it. So now our original MSN
network boom is empty and this new folder can
only be accessed by me. Now that's a money shot. How to view any private Instagram post. - [@trueyt] So what
you're first going to do is you're gonna right click, hit inspect. - Oh good, we're back to inspect element. - [@trueyt] Click that
you're gonna hit remove. So after you y'all remove
the page hide button, all you gotta do is
hit the refresh button. Ooh, there y'all go, man. - That is pathetic if that actually works. You reload the page. Maybe at some point it was this easy. Apparently it doesn't work anymore. I'm giving this a 1/10. Why does it have 23,000 likes? - One really popular type of TechTok is people showing off
their epic gaming rigs and talking about just how
affordably they can be obtained. - [@1dktech] This is my gaming setup. - Oh god, her voice is so annoying. - First off with the PC, when I bought it, it was around $1,100. However, I made a few upgrades so far. So I think that price
goes up to around 1,300. - You think? You think? - [@1dktech] I think the entire
keyboard was around $350. - You think? - [@1dktech] The mic was free
'cause it got sent out to me. I paid for my Boom Arm, so the total for my gaming
set up was around $2,560. - By that logic. - Well, you guys wouldn't
believe how affordable you can get this set up. I paid $0. EK sent this over to us so
that we could put it in videos and have like a sick gaming
rig and wow these two plants we got from Ikea for a total of, I think it was $10. I got these lightsabers. Maybe these were 20 bucks
each at the Disney Store. Who's counting anyway? These gold coins, these
were set by dbrand, (beeping) you dbrand. Obviously the best part
though is this LTT Store, Northern Lights Desk Pad,
only 29.99 at lttstore.com. Samsung sent us this monitor. They actually sponsored
the video we made about it. So net this cost negative dollars. So in total, this gaming setup cost you less than $0. Enjoy, hope it was helpful. Fricking idiot. (Alex laughing) - [Linus] Watch what
happens when I turn on my epic gaming battle station. (rock music playing) Okay, rigging VLC to open
a video file when you turn on your computer, not exactly a hack, but I can see why the
kids would be into this. Unfortunately, what they didn't show you, is how to do it. Step one is you'll need someone to control your RGB lighting. Andy, do you want to come
out from behind the table? (Andy vocalizing) - Yeah, we had an iPad to do that, but the app was being complicated, so Andy pressed the button. Anyway, the point is, all you gotta do is go on spiceworks.com and there's this great topic called Windows 10 Play a video upon login before loading the desktop. It's a bit of doing. It will take awhile but (film reeling), the point is if you really wanna do that, you can follow this guide, or maybe there's a better one. I don't know. I don't care, it doesn't matter. I give this one a 4/10. It's definitely cool, but they don't show you
how to do it at all. What else we got here? Oh, good, @hardwaresavvy is back. - [@hardwaresavvy] Here's how to make your computer faster in 10 seconds. - Ooh. - [@hardwaresavvy] Restart your computer. When you enter your bios, find your bios, find
your RAMs X.M.P. profile, click on it, and choose it. - Oh man, okay. There's a few things here. One, yes X.M.P. can be a way
to get a little bit more speed out of your computer, but in many cases, the X.M.P. rated speed of your RAM will not actually run stably with your motherboard and the
integrated memory controller on your CPU. - I give this tech tip a 6.5. It's a valid tech tip, but there's a lot of details missing. Yeah @hardwaresavvy could have mentioned that it's called D.O.C.P.on AMD systems. That's, that's useful. That's good to know. (rock music) - Oh my God. Shut up. Okay, so it shows you how
to add multiple things to the windows clipboard. All right, that's pretty handy. Let's try it. Ctrl+C, Ctrl+C. Just make sure that you
don't enable this feature on a shared computer
if for whatever reason you are copying things that you wouldn't want anyone else to see. (Linus vocalizing) Good TechTok, 9.5/10. I like it. Our final TechTok from @dasavage1013, has 59,000 hearts and 2,000 shares. - [@dasavage1013] Push the FN Windows and Shift key with B. It's gonna reset slash fix your drivers and your graphics card. Okay, Ctrl+ Windows+Shift+B. Okay, 9/10. Could be a useful TechTok. Just like this could be a useful message from our sponsor, FreshBooks. FreshBooks is the easy to
use accounting software designed specifically with you in mind, the small business owner. It has built-in automation, so you spend less time tracking projects and more time doing what matters most, growing your business. So whether you're a trades person, creative agency, or a YouTuber, you can choose a plan
that's right for you. They have award-winning
Toronto-based customer support, who's always ready to
help you if you need it. And you don't have to take
my word for any of this, you can try FreshBooks for
free for 30 days today. No credit card required
at freshbooks.com/linus. If you guys enjoyed this video, but you're looking for
something a bit more serious, maybe check out our timecard video. That's right. It's a card designed to
keep time in your PC. It's actually really cool.