When we bought our house several years ago, we 
fell in love with every part of it except one:   the foundation. At 75 years old, we knew 
these old piers were just about finished   holding this old house up. This year we 
finally bit the bullet to have them replaced.   Any homeowner who’s had foundation work 
done can commiserate with us on the cost   and disruption of a project like this. But homes 
aren’t the only structures with foundations.   It is both a gravitational necessity and a source 
of job stability to structural and geotechnical   engineers that all construction - great and small 
- sits upon the ground. And the ways in which we   accomplish such a seemingly unexceptional feat 
are full of fascinating and unexpected details.   I’m Grady and this is Practical Engineering. In 
today’s episode, we’re talking about foundations. This video is sponsored by CuriosityStream 
and Nebula. More on them later. There’s really just one rule for structural and 
geotechnical engineers designing foundations:   when you put something on the ground, it should 
not move. That seems like a pretty straightforward   directive. You can put a lot of stuff on the 
ground and have it stay there. For example,   several years ago I optimistically stacked 
these pavers behind my shed with the false hope   that I would use them in a landscaping project 
someday, but their most likely future is to sit   here in this shady purgatory for all of eternity. 
Unfortunately, buildings and other structures are   a little different. Mainly, they are large enough 
that one part could move relative to the other   parts, a phenomenon we call differential movement. 
When you move one piece of anyTHING relative to   the rest of it, you introduce stress. And if that 
stress is greater than the inherent strength of   the thing, that thing will pull itself apart. 
It happens all the time, all around the world,   including right here in my own house. When 
one of these piers settles or heaves more   than the others, all the stuff it supports 
tries to move too. But doorframes, drywall,   and ceramic tile work much better and last much 
longer when the surrounding structure stays put. There are many kinds of foundations used for 
the various structures in our built environment,   but before we dive into how they work, I think it 
will be helpful to first talk about what they’re   up against, or actually down against. Of course, 
buildings are heavy, and one of the most important   jobs of a foundation is to evenly distribute 
that weight into the subsurface as downward   pressure. Soil isn’t infinitely strong against 
vertical loads. It can fail just like any other   component of a structural system. When the forces 
are high enough to shear through soil particles,   we call it a bearing failure. The soil 
directly below the load is forced downward,   pushing the rest of the soil to either side, 
eventually bulging up around the edges. Even if the subsurface doesn’t full-on shear, it 
can still settle. This happens when the particles   are compressed more closely together, and it 
usually takes place over a longer period of time.   (I have a video all about settlement 
that you can check out after this.)   So, job number 1 of a foundation is to distribute 
the downward force of a structure over a large   enough area to reduce the bearing pressure and 
avoid shear failures or excessive settlement. Structural loads don’t just come from gravity. 
Wind can exert tremendous and rapidly-fluctuating   pressure on a large structure pushing it 
horizontally and even creating uplift like the   wing of an airplane. Earthquakes also create loads 
on structures, shifting and shaking them with very   little warning. Just like the normal weight of 
a structure, these loads must also be resisted   by a foundation to prevent it from lifting or 
sliding along the ground. That’s job number 2. Speaking of the ground, it’s not the most 
hospitable place for many building materials.   It has bugs, like termites, that can eat away 
at wooden members over time, reducing their   strength. It also has moisture that can lead to 
mold and rot. My house was built in the 1940s   on top of cedar piers. This is a wood species 
that is naturally resistant to bugs and fungi,   but not completely immune to them as you can see. 
So, job number 3 of a foundation is to resist   the effects of long-term degradation and decay 
that come from our tiny biological neighbors. Another problem with the ground is that 
soil isn’t really as static as we think.   Freezing isn’t usually a problem for me in 
central Texas, but many places in the world see   temperatures that rise and fall below the freezing 
point of water tens or hundreds of times per year.   We all know water expands when it freezes, and 
it can do so with prodigious force. When this   happens to subsurface water below a structure, it 
can behave like a jack to lift it up. Over time,   these cycles of freeze and thaw can slowly shift 
or raise parts of a structure more than others,   creating issues. Similarly, some kinds 
of soil expand when exposed to moisture.   I also have a video on this phenomenon, so you 
have two videos to watch after this one. Expansive   clay soil can create the same type of damage 
as cycles of freeze and thaw by subtly moving   a structure in small amounts with each cycle of 
wet and dry. So job number 4 of a foundation is   to reach a deep enough layer that can’t freeze 
or that doesn’t experience major fluctuations   in moisture content to avoid these problems that 
come with water in the subgrade below a structure. Job number 5 isn’t necessarily applicable to 
most buildings, but there are many types of   structures (like bridges and retaining walls) 
that are regularly subject to flowing water.   Over time (or sometimes over the course of a 
single flood), that water can create erosion,   undermining the structure. Many foundations 
are specifically designed to combat erosion,   either with hard armoring or by simply 
being installed so deep into the earth   that they can’t be undermined 
by quickly flowing water. Job number 6 really applies to all of engineering: 
foundations have to be cost effective. Could the   contractor who built my house in the 1940s 
have driven twice as many piers, each one to   three times the depth? Of course it can be done, 
but (with some minor maintenance and repairs),   this one lasted 75 years before needing to be 
replaced. With the median length of homeownership   somewhere between 5 and 15 years, few people 
would be willing to pay more for a house with   500 years of remaining life in the foundation 
than they would for one with 30. I could have   paid this contractor to build me a foundation 
that will last hundreds of years... but I didn’t.   Engineering is a job of balancing constraints, and 
many of the decisions in foundation engineering   come down to the question of “How can we 
achieve all of the first 5 jobs I mentioned   without overdoing it and wasting a bunch of 
money in the process?” Let’s look at a few ways. Foundations are generally 
divided into two classes:   deep and shallow. Most buildings with only 
a few stories, including nearly all homes,   are built on shallow foundations. That means they 
transfer the structure’s weight to the surface of   the earth (or just below it). Maybe the most basic 
of these is how my house was originally built.   They cut down cedar trees, hammered those 
logs into the ground as piles, layed wooden   beams across the top of those piers, and then 
built the rest of the house atop the beams.   Pier and beam foundations are pretty common, 
at least in my neck of the woods, and they have   an added benefit of creating a crawlspace below 
the structure in which utilities like plumbing,   drains, and electric lines can be installed 
and maintained. However, all these individual,   unconnected points of contact with the earth leave 
quite a bit of room for differential movement. Another basic type of shallow foundation is 
the strip footing, which generally consists   of a ribbon or strip of concrete upon which walls 
can sit. In some cases the floor is isolated from   the walls and sits directly on concrete slab atop 
the subgrade, but strip footings can also support   floor joists, making room for a crawlspace below. 
For sites with strong soils, this is a great   option because it’s simple and cheap, but if the 
subgrade soils are poor, strip footings can still   allow differential movement because all the walls 
aren’t rigidly connected together. In that case,   it makes sense to use a raft foundation - a 
completely solid concrete slab that extends   across the entire structure. Raft foundations 
are typically concrete slabs placed directly on   the ground (usually with some thickened areas 
to provide extra rigidity). They distribute   the loads across a larger area, reducing 
the pressure on the subgrade, and they can   accommodate some movement of the ground without 
transferring the movement into a structure,   essentially riding the waves of the earth like 
a raft on the ocean (hence the name). However,   they don’t have a crawlspace which makes 
plumbing repairs much more challenging. One issue with all shallow foundations is that 
you still need to install them below the frost   line - that is the maximum depth to which water 
in the soil might freeze during the harshest part   of the winter - in order to avoid frost heaving. 
In some parts of the contiguous United States,   the frost line can be upwards of 8 
feet or nearly two-and-a-half meters.   If you’re going to dig that deep 
to install a foundation anyway,   you might as well just add an extra 
floor to your structure below the ground.   That’s usually called a basement, and it 
can be considered a building’s foundation   (although the walls are usually constructed on 
a raft or strip footings as described above). As a structure’s size increases, so do the 
loads it imposes on the ground, and eventually   it becomes infeasible to rely only on soils 
near the surface of the earth. Tall buildings,   elevated roadways, bridges, and coastal structures 
often rely on deep foundations for support. This   is especially true when the soils at the surface 
are not as firm as the layers farther below the   ground. Deep foundations almost always rely on 
piles, which are vertical structural elements that   are driven or drilled into the earth, often down 
to a stronger layer of soil or bedrock, and there   are way more types than I could ever cover in a 
single video. Piles not only transfer loads at the   bottom (called end bearing), but they can also be 
supported along their length through a phenomenon   called skin friction. This makes it possible 
for a foundation to resist much more significant   loads - whether downward, upward or horizontal 
- within a given footprint of a structure. One of the benefits of driven piles is 
that you install them in somewhat the   same way that they’ll be loaded in their final 
configuration. There’s some efficiency there   because you can just stop pushing the pile 
into the ground once it’s able to resist   the design loads. There’s a problem with 
this though. Let me show you what I mean.   This hydraulic press has more than enough 
power to push this steel rod into the ground.   And at first, it does just that. But eventually, 
it reaches a point where the weight of the press   is less than the bearing capacity of the pile, and 
it just lifts itself up. Easy… (you might think).   Just add more weight. But consider that these 
piles might be designed to support the weight   of an entire structure. It’s not feasible 
to bring in or build some massive weight   just to react against to drive a pile into 
the ground. Instead, we usually use hammers,   which can deliver significantly more force to 
drive a pile with only a relatively small weight. The problem with hammered piles is that the 
dynamic loading they undergo during installation   is different from the static loading 
they see once in service. In other words,   buildings don’t usually hammer on their 
foundations. For example, if a pile can   withstand the force of a 5-ton weight dropped 
from 16 feet or 5 meters without moving, what’s   the equivalent static load it can withstand? That 
turns out to be a pretty complicated question,   and even though there are published equivalencies 
between static and dynamic loads, their accuracy   can vary widely depending on soil conditions. 
That’s especially true for long piles where   the pressure wave generated by a hammer might not 
even travel fast enough to load the entire member   at the same moment in time. Static tests are more 
reliable, but also much more expensive because you   either have to bring in a ton (or thousands of 
tons) of weight to put on top, or you have to   build additional piles with a beam across them 
to give the test rig something to react against. One interesting solution to this problem 
is called statnamic testing of piles.   In this method, a mass is accelerated 
upward using explosives, creating an   equal and opposite force on the pile to be 
tested. It’s kind of like a reverse hammer,   except unlike a hammer where the force on 
the pile lasts only for a few milliseconds,   the duration of loading in a statnamic test 
is often upwards of 100 or 200 milliseconds.   That makes it much more similar to a static 
force on the pile without having to bring in   tons and tons of weight or build expensive 
reaction piers just to conduct a test. I’m only scratching the surface (or subsurface) 
of a topic that fills hundreds of engineering   textbooks and the careers of thousands of 
contractors and engineers. If all the earth   was solid rock, life would be a lot simpler, but 
maybe a lot less interesting too. If there are   topics in foundations that you’d like to learn 
more about, add a comment or send me an email,   and I’ll try to address it in a future video, 
but I hope this one gives you some appreciation   of those innocuous bits of structural and 
geotechnical engineering below our feet. Hey, thanks for sticking around to the end of 
this video. You know how this works because you   probably watch a lot of videos about science 
and engineering to the end just like I do.   You probably also don’t enjoy watching ads like 
this one, which is great, because Nebula doesn’t   have any. Nebula is a streaming service built by 
and for independent creators like MinutePhysics,   Real Engineering, Wendover Productions, 
and a bunch of others (including me).   It’s a way for us to try new ideas that might 
not work on advertiser-supported platforms like   YouTube. My videos go live there the day before 
they publish here, with no ads or sponsorships.   And, we’re super excited to continue our 
partnership with CuriosityStream, a service with   thousands of documentaries and non-fiction titles 
on pretty much every subject you can imagine.   CuriosityStream loves independent creators and 
wants to help us grow our platform, so they’re   offering free access to Nebula when you sign 
up at CuriosityStream.com/practicalengineering. I know there are a lot of streaming services 
right now, and all those monthly subscriptions   can be tough to keep track of. That’s why this 
bundle is such an awesome deal. CuriosityStream   is taking 26% off an annual plan - that makes 
it only $15 for an entire year of access to   thousands of thought-provoking documentaries 
on CuriosityStream AND everything on Nebula as   well. You can watch awesome big-budget content 
on CuriosityStream. I love watching the European   Inventor Awards that showcase the coolest new 
inventions each year on CuriosityStream. Or,   watch the new Nebula-exclusive series “Logistics 
of D-Day” by my friend Brian at Real Engineering.   It’s a great way to support my channel and a whole 
host of your other favorite educational creators.   Plus it’s just a great deal. Do us both a 
favor and click that link in the description.   Thank you for watching, and 
let me know what you think!