On Sept 3rd, 2023, we held a symposium. In this video, I want to do a brief recap
of what happened and invite you to the next one. The idea for the symposium first popped up
when Dylan told me that both he and Doug O'Laughlin of Fabricated Knowledge were coming to Taipei
in September. Dylan and I had held a small meetup back in
May. That was a blast. So now that all three of us are here, we should
have something a bit bigger. And thus came about the AI and Semiconductor
Symposium. Dylan did his magic and found some amazing
guests, which we will talk about later. And we booked a venue in early August. It was a beautiful ballroom at the NTU Hospital
International Convention Center. We made the first announcement a week later
and by the time sales closed, we had over 400 signups. I am not going to lie, I was incredibly anxious
in the days before the event - setting up seating options, coordinating slides between
all the participants, so on. It felt like being back in university. And then if we are not lucky enough, we have
Typhoon Haikui approaching Taiwan. For a few days we worried over what would
happen if the storm hit Taipei head on. But fortunately (for us) the storm turned
south. ## Day of the Event The day of the event, we all met at a wonderful
cafe in Beitou called INTRO Kitchen. I highly recommend it to everyone. Go check it out. Now, I should mention that Dylan sprained
his ankle last week whilst drunk dancing. He has been walking around on it for the past
whole week and now it's not doing well. So with the event starting about an hour and
a half away, we take him to the traditional Chinese medicine clinic to treat his foot. The doctor says it will take 20 minutes, and
now I am really freaking out. I show up at the Room at 12:30 PM and there
are already 30 people waiting. We go up and down the aisles, marking the
seat sections so people can sit down. Meanwhile, we are taking attendance outside. Our esteemed Master of Ceremony Rita arranges
a maniacal car ride back from Beitou to the NTUH Convention center. Dylan arrives 20 minutes late and now we are
off and running! ## Frankwell Lin Our first talk was by Frankwell Lin, Chairman
and CEO of Andes Technology Group. He also serves on the board of the RISC-V
International Association. Andes Technology Group is a semiconductor
IP company providing IC design services for other companies. They also develop a series of hardware and
software products. Frankwell discussed AI accelerators including
those using photonics and their strong position in RISC-V. He also went over potential methods to continue
realizing performance improvements in digital electronics - Moore's Law. New materials and devices, which take time. Or architectural specialization and something
Frankwell calls "extreme heterogeneity". The use of very specialized chips for certain
applications - as aided by the newly released chiplet standard - Universal Chiplet Interconnect
Express, or UCIe. It was a great and informative talk about
a company more people should know. ## Dylan Patel Dylan did our second talk. He opened with a metaphor discussing just
how computationally expensive AI can be. If you printed out the parameters of a good
but not leading edge model like BERT onto a piece of paper, then that stack of paper
would go all the way from Philadelphia to Chicago. GPT-4 on the other hand would go all the way
to the Moon and back, 10 times over. Dylan's talk was on model requirements for
hardware and future scaling, as well as future model architecture and what hardware those
models might need. He walked through the memory hierarchy, and
some of the training costs for the largest leading edge models. He also compared the costs of running ChatGPT
and a Google Search, which was pretty interesting. By the way, I find it funny how every time
he shows a new slide, a bunch of people lift their phones to take a picture of it. ## Warren Lau After that, the third talk was by Warren Lau
- senior analyst from the Hong Kong-based Aletheia Capital. He walked us through some of his fund's theses
especially with regards to the AI boom and the AI supply chain. Making these new AI products like ChatGPT
and Microsoft Copilot mean buying and installing lots of AI servers. Nvidia is the most prominently featured of
these suppliers, but there are many others. A high-end AI server is estimated to cost
some $180,000 - with the GPU capturing about 89% of that. There was also some discussion of AMD's upcoming
MI300 processor - the first CPU+GPU combo - comparing them to the H100 accelerator. Overall, I felt it was an insightful journey
into the massive network of vendors feeding into ChatGPT. ## Doug O'Laughlin Doug is a brilliant analyst and he really
brought some fire to the show. He talked about China's big push into the
lagging edge semiconductor industry. This has been something a lot of people and
myself have been thinking about for a long time. I was going to do a video about it. He went over his supporting items for the
thesis. There is a great wave of digitization in the
car industry happening right now, and that requires more car silicon. China holds a substantial cost and market
advantage in EV production, and they are leveraging these advantages to generate immense capacity
to flood the market with EV exports. Many of these EV makers are vertically integrated. They are building these Fabs for their own
internal use, which distorts the systems' whole economics. And with the Chinese no longer able to import
leading edge semiconductor manufacturing equipment, it has completely shifted them towards dominating
the lagging edge. What this means is that traditional automotive
semiconductor OEMs will be hit hard by this new wave of competition and capacity. Very provocative thesis and I think more than
a few friends in the audience were quite moved by it. ## Me For my talk, I shared a story about American
lithography companies. The video containing the full version of the
story will be shared a bit later so wait for that. But let me share the little story I told at
the start. I remember when I first started at the channel,
I made my first video about TSMC early on. The video did better than others that I have
done and I thought I struck gold! But then I looked at the search terms that
were bringing people to the video and noticed one of the top terms was "TSMC Minecraft". And I was like "What?" Turns out, there is a very large YouTuber
called TSMC Minecraft and he makes Minecraft tutorials. A not insignificant portion of views coming
to the channel were not interested in TSMC the chipmaker at all, but TSMC the Minecrafter. That was pretty amusing. ## Panel Q&A After this, Dylan had not yet finished his
slides so we started the panel a bit early. It was also very nice to get Jordan Schneider
of ChinaTalk up on the forum too. He was a bit jet lagged but I loved having
him on there. We used a service called Slido to collect
questions. People could upvote the questions they wanted
to answer. We could not possibly get through all the
questions that we received though, sadly. There were some very entertaining moments. Dylan was asked about a possible AI server
bust and he cooked up a big rant about how Jensen likes to go all with the chip double
orders when the going is good. Dylan then goes on to say that will eventually
lead to a bust and a subsequent write down in inventory. You can’t say Dylan isn’t afraid to speak
his mind. ## Dylan 2 Dylan went up again the second time, talking
about his "GPU-Poor" concept that he brought up in a prior newsletter. In it, he focused on Google and their massive
computing advantage. There were some very fun references to Google's
MEMS-based optical switches and how they dynamically reroute traffic. A friend of mine who worked at Google before
came to the show and told me via chat that "everything he is saying about Google is pure
Google thinking". And of course, he showed the now-infamous
chart that got Sam Altman calling him Google marketing/recruiting on TwitterX. With Elon his X-ness himself replying to said
Tweet. ## Mingling and End And with that, we were done! Despite the late start, we finished exactly
on time at 5 PM. Since we had the room until 6 PM, there was
extra time to mingle. Naturally, they all ran for the stars of the
show - Doug and Dylan. These two guys are legitimate celebrities. My favorite part was when someone brought
a real wafer - a binned one, it seems - for us three to sign. I am told that when Dylan was signing it,
he was able to identify what the chips were. Crazy. I was suffering from back spasms that day
- thanks to the stress of putting this whole thing on. But regardless, it was a pleasure to talk
to each and every one of you. I had a blast learning about what you guys
do. ## Conclusion Nearly 200 people showed up despite short
notice and a raging typhoon outside. I am stunned and grateful for all of you who
came out. To those people, you are the real MVPs. For those who were not able to make it, I
am sorry to have missed you. Come by for the next one ... whenever it shall
happen.