- I have been using
folding phones ever since the Z Flip 1 back in 2020, but by far the number
one question I get is, "What's the point of a folding phone? They're fragile, they're
expensive, and what's the point? I have a phone that's perfectly fine in my pocket right now," and to that I would
say, yeah, you're right. The phone in your pocket
is perfectly fine, but there's something about
the folding form factor which has truly captured me. So today I wanna tell you
a little bit about not only the brand new Z Flip 5 as well
as the Motorola Razr Plus, but on top of that, the reason why I have spent the last three-and-a-half
years using folding phones and why that is not changing anytime soon. We've all gotten so accustomed
to phones being massive and taking up all the space in your pocket or your bag or whatever, then when it comes to using a device that's a little bit smaller, to me it's really freeing to
be able to just toss my keys and my headphones in the same pocket or throw it in a little
purse or a bag or whatever. So the form factor is one
thing that I think it's easy for you to just kinda write off of like, "Ah, phones are fine, whatever." And I'll admit I'm someone
who uses a iPhone mini a lot, so I get the idea that maybe
I'm not the standard person, but for me the most
important element of a phone is how comfortable it is to use, not to carry around, not
to put in your pocket, how comfortable it is to use. So take the Z Flip 5, for example. It's thin, especially
once you've opened it up, and on top of that, it's really
great for one-hand-ability. That's a big thing for me. Because this phone is a
little bit on the taller side, but it's a little bit narrow, it means that, for me, it's very comfortable
to use with one hand. Then there's the utility. For the phone to be able
to stand up on its own is a big deal for me because
not only do I not need a PopSocket when I'm watching
video, but on top of that, it functions as a built-in tripod. I can set this up pretty much anywhere, grab some photos, grab some videos. It's something which doesn't
seem like a big deal, but I use it all the time. The bigger, much more
expensive Galaxy Z Fold, gets a lot of the attention. Really, the Razr from Motorola is the only proper competition. So technically that device
actually did come out before the Z Flip, it
came out in late 2019, and the phone is, well, it was
certainly full of character, I'll give them that. The problem was it was very half-baked, so the screen had like an actual gap when you opened and closed it, the specs were terrible,
the camera was bad, like, it was a very early flipping device and Motorola has improved it
over the last few generations to the point where we now have this, the Moto Razr Plus, which is also known as the
Razr 40 Ultra in some markets, because branding. Long story short, while it is certainly
not a perfect device, there is a lot to like with
the Razr that makes it, in my opinion, the first true competition
for the Galaxy Z Flip line. Apologies for the facial hair jump scare, but I've been using the
Razr for a couple of weeks and I have a lot of thoughts. First and foremost is
absolutely the cover display. It is massive and it really does open up a completely different way of using one of these flippable phones. I use it all the time
to use the outer display for scrolling through Twitter or Threads or checking email or whatever. It's really useful in a way that previous Z Flip
displays just simply weren't. The downsides though are
relatively substantial. Camera quality is one, right? So you're looking at video directly off of the Razr right now, and while this is quite a
high dynamic range scene, the video is not good. Something else has (laughs),
you can't see this, but this screen, the outer
screen, is just dimmed, because I believe that the phone's about to start overheating. So it should be no surprise that I am pre-ordering the Z Flip 5. I guess everyone does this for phones but it feels a little bit
ironic that Samsung go, "Hey, you sure you don't
want some Samsung Care?" For me, I always buy my own devices when I'm going to use it for
an extended period of time, I don't wanna rely on a Samsung phone that I have to ship back in
like two or three months. The cover display is a
legitimately huge improvement, but also it's not quite
there in my opinion. So on the plus side, this is so much more useful
than previous Z Flips, which had much, much smaller displays that worked okay as a camera preview, but they were very, very small. Now the Z Flip 5 allows you to have not only very
customized home screens, you're able to easily
check your notifications and actually respond to them
with a full-size keyboard, but you also have a nearly
full screen camera preview. That is a big improvement, and there are some apps that work. Now, emphasis on some,
because first of all, you need to go into the settings and turn this on as a Labs feature, and the apps that you can
turn on are very minimal. For me, YouTube, messages, there's only a handful that
actually work right now. I've seen that there is a GoodLock feature that you can enable other apps to work, I haven't tried that yet,
I definitely plan to, but when you compare this to the Razr, it's more polished in some
ways, but way, way behind. Now Samsung are making a
big deal about the fact that this hinge has no gap. So every previous Z Flip
did have a little bit of a gap toward the hinge and they've removed that this time around, which does mean that the entire phone has been slimmed down a little bit. I have honestly kind of forgotten that the gap was even gone to begin with. Like, it's like two millimeters, and what's two millimeters
between friends? (lips smacking) There's just something very
tactile about it in a way that, a slab phone just feels
boring in comparison? That might not matter at all to you, but I use the Z Flip because it gives me a little spark of joy that just, it's just something about the hinge, something about the the
form factor that, you know, it's the same reason why I think
a manual shifter feels good or a mechanical watch, like there's something very tactile that's almost kind of hard to describe, but it's something I just like. Is that weird? It probably is. Most people don't look at hinge-feel when they're purchasing their
next smartphone, but I do. One thing that's not particularly
improved is the crease. So all folding phones have a crease. Now the size and the depth
of that crease varies, and I will say that this
is basically the same as earlier Z Flips. Now importantly, there's
no additional protection against dust or water, so
this is still IPX8-rated, which is a big deal. I really rely on having some
waterproofing on my device, but there's no technical
support for dust resistance. Mind you, the fact that the hinge is completely folded flat means
that there's less, you know, space for dust to get in there, but technically this is not
any more durable against dust than previous models. Now I do have to be
honest about durability. It is a concern. So I've used every
generation of the Z Flip and I've had some
problems on most of them. So I've had a lot of issues
with the screen protector, which, on like a standard
phone, if you're used to that, you know, screen protectors are easy, with these folding phones, the screen protectors are a
little bit more important. Technically you can take them off, but they're not meant to be taken off and they are a little bit part of the, not necessarily the
structure of the display, but certainly part of the durability. Now, mind you, Samsung do
have the ability for you to go into one of their like,
approved service centers, or I think some Best Buys
will do it and whatnot. They will replace the screen
protector once for you for free and there is a deal where they'll give you a discounted like one
time screen replacement if it's outside of warranty. Like, it's not as if
Samsung support is terrible. Mind you, I know it's not
great in certain regions, I can only speak for the US here, whereas the only time I actually had a broken Z Flip screen in the past, they were quite quick
and easy to replace it and send me a new unit, so I can only say from
my personal experience. I'll also say that the Flip 5 is really snappy. That Snapdragon 8, oh I
said snappy and Snapdragon! The Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy is a very, very solid chipset. So it's a little bit quicker than both the Razr and the Z Flip 4, not a life-changing amount, but I do notice that everything happens a little bit snappier. Fa! Something that's also pretty
decent is the battery life on the Z Flip. So I just got back from a trip where I was using this as my main device and the thing that really stood out to me is that it is a substantial
improvement over the Z Flip 4. So you're not going to have
like two-day battery life like some other devices, but it was easily able to
last a full travel day for me, and that's always the big
test because when I'm out, and I'm taking photos,
videos, using Google Maps, all of that kind of stuff. So I will say that it's a
small improvement over the 4, but very, very usable and a lot better than the earlier Z Flips. So when we're talking camera, we can compare this to the Razr, in which the Razr is not good
on stills and bad on video. The Z Flip 5 has, I would
say, quite good photos, as long as you've got decent lighting, and good video as well. But when you compare it to other devices in the $1,000 price point, it does sort of lack a little bit. So obviously you only
have two cameras here, you've got a main sensor
as well as an ultrawide, and these are largely
unchanged from the Z Flip 4, which was only a little
bit of an improvement from the Z Flip 3. Technically you've got like a
better anti-reflective coating and there's a couple of
small software tweaks, and I will say it again, in good lighting and good conditions, you can take super-contrasty,
punchy images. I think a lot of people will be happy with images in good light, but as soon as you get into
a little bit more of like an actual like regular situation, it does fall a little bit flat. But I wanna be honest, right? Folding phones are still early technology and there still are potential downsides. However, the price one is the one that I don't necessarily
agree with with people. So I will completely admit
folding phones are expensive. So when you look at something
like both the Z Flip 5 as well as the Moto Razr Plus, these here in the US
cost $1,000, not cheap, but it gets way crazier if you
go to a folding type phone, so something like the
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold or the Pixel Fold, these phones
are like 17, 1,800 bucks. I mean, almost $2,000 on
a smartphone is a lot, but for me, I like the
flips for one big reason. The comfort and the size, and
there is still utility there, but they're not absolutely
insanely expensive. $1,000 is a lot, do not get me wrong, but in a world where most
decent flagship phones are in that sort of $7 to $1,000 range, I think it's not crazy. There water behind me? That's... Think we're gonna get
sprinkled on right now. The thing that I really want to impart, if you take nothing away from this video, is that folding phones
have gotten a lot better. The Moto Razr Plus, while
less than a perfect device, has gotten a lot closer to being proper competition for
Samsung, which is important, because here in the US, if
you want a folding phone, Samsung are by far the
dominant sort of player. I mean, yes, Google has the Pixel Fold, but it's really Samsung
or bust for the most part. That's changing, but it's
nice to have that competition. When it comes to the Z Flip 5 though, while I may have some slight concerns, it's a terrific device. It really, really is. Outside of some relatively
small nit-picks, I really have to say that
I am tremendously happy with where folding phones are, and for me, going back to a slab phone
feels archaic, it feels old, and you may not share that opinion, and that's completely okay, because folding phones
are not for everyone. But if you're bored with the
phone you're using right now, if you hear any of what
I've said today and think, "Hmm, maybe I should give that a try," then the water's never
been warmer, my friends, and if you're considering
a folding phone today, I truly believe that the Z Flip 5 should be at the very top of your list, I really feel that strongly about it. It is not a perfect device, you are going to have to
slightly change the way you use the phone when
it comes to durability, maybe don't take it in a sandstorm, but outside of some relatively
minor inconveniences, I think that the trade-off
is absolutely worth it. I'm not sure why I'm filming
this video on the ground, but if you enjoyed, make sure
to subscribe to the channel. I've been working on this video for weeks. Let me know what you
think about the Z Flip 5, the Moto Razr, and the
state of folding phones in the comments below, and I
will catch you in the next one.