- Hello and welcome to
a very special episode of Mystery Tech, now featuring
Roboraptor's bigger brother? So as you can see this
episode of Mystery Tech is a little different. It is the holiday extravaganza. We decorated just for this video. The fireplace was a little
unnecessary, but you know. So unlike usual Mystery Tech
where Ken wastes all the money, instead everyone in the
office got a single pick. So I'm gonna guess. Who would have gotten Roboraptor 2.0? Matt, did you pick this item? - [Matt] No. - Ken, did you pick this item? - [Ken] No. - Josh, did Josh pick this item? - [Ken] No. - Did Wes?
- [Ken and Matt] No. - Man, Jimmy picked it? - [Ken] Yes. - How much was it? - $250.00
- two-- (chanting) We already had one Roboraptor. Then we got Roboraptor's weird cousin. Now we have Megaraptor, which is... Whoa. Okay, it just came alive. Can you hear this? (dinosaur rawring) Easy, okay, it's okay. This one's like scary. Like Roboraptor's like
a friendly dinosaur. He's like oh no, ha ha. And this one's just like blinking at you and it looks like it's about to do that. Yeah, yeah, that's a good idea. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. (toys crashing) (box banging) X-Bass SuperSonic Four-Band
Radio and Cassette Player. Well this doesn't look very good. Wait, wait, wait, hang on. Now that I've said that,
who chose the four-band radio and cassette player? (Christmas music) Matt?
- Nope. - Damn.
(buzzer) - Wes.
- Nope. (buzzer) - Josh.
- Yeah, there you go. - Okay, thanks Josh. This is really hard. I have no idea who has what. Oh, oh I have the Logic cassette. Oh, yes. All right, all right. Josh, Josh has got me on this one. That's a good call. That's a very good call. So not only does this
have a cassette player with a four band radio, but we also have USB
input and an SD card slot. 500 watts. Um, I don't think that's accurate. You know what, it smells like 1985. Man, I haven't seen an antenna
like this in a long time. I remember my dad used to yell at me because I would do this with my radio. He's like, oh, you're gonna break it. And you have to bring it in from the side. Otherwise, you're putting
too much pressure on it. I feel old.
(laughing) ♪ You know I'd do anything for you ♪ ♪ Stay the night ♪ ♪ I don't wanna lose your love tonight ♪ (foreign language) - [Man] Damn man, we been walking forever. - That actually sounds surprisingly good. - [Ken] Do you wanna take a
guess at how much this was? - [Austin] This, $60. - 35.
- $35? Yo, actually, I mean it's not like the greatest tape player in the
world or the greatest radio. But considering at how it
looks retro, it feels retro, it doesn't sound that bad, 35 bucks, this actually might be one of the better deals on Mystery Tech. Wow, I feel so loved. Wait, actually, Josh
didn't even waste money. (horn blowing)
(clapping) Okay, so this is a mysterious box. Who got shoes? (gasping) Heelys? Oh, oh okay, all right. This is Matt. - [Matt] No.
(buzzer) - I'm never gonna get this right. I'm just gonna guess you every time. Is this Wes?
- Yes. Okay, excellent. Second try. I'll be real, I've never owned
a pair of Heelys in my life. So I should probably lace
these up, it's fine right? Whoa. So you can walk normally, but
if I want I can be like, whoa. Whoa, wait a minute. How do you do it? Wait, I need the instruction. How to heel? Find the balance point. Find a rail, counter, or
friend you can hold on to in order to keep your balance. (grunting) This is hard. How do you Heely? Help, Matt, Matt help, help Matt. No, no, no, no, no, no. I'm trusting you. (laughing) - [Matt] I killed Austin. - It's been a long fun ride. Had a lot of great Mystery Tech episodes. But I see the Festivus pole and I don't have the strength to continue. (box crashing) A Pokeball speaker? (rock music) Is that Pokemon? (rock music) I'm going to guess that the
person who picked this is Ken. - [Ken] No.
(buzzer) - Out of all the things that you got, this is the one? I'm assuming this was
not all that expensive. - [Matt] $30. - All right, $30 Bluetooth speaker, I can get behind that. ♪ I wanna be the very best ♪ ♪ No one ever was ♪ ♪ My destiny, Pokemon ♪ ♪ Oh you're my best friend ♪ ♪ In a world we must defend ♪
- Wait, am I making a TikTok right now? ♪ Pokemon gotta catch 'em all ♪ ♪ A heart so true ♪ (Lavender Town theme) What? Hold on a second, hold on a second. Is this the original Pokedex? Yo, I used to have one of these. Wait, is this your choice. (ding ding) This is still sealed,
too, I just realized. Oh I can't open this. $150 on eBay right now? (exhaling) It's okay, never listen to mom. All right, here we go. The Pokedex. This thing is 20 years old. I'm old. Do you think these 20-year-old
batteries are gonna work? No way, right? What? What? 20-year-old batteries work? Are you serious? Who did we look up? Staryu. Error. You have to type it in exactly? What is this like a spelling tool as well? Hey look, it's a Staryu. It's two foot seven inches, 76 pounds. Wow, that's really dense. It knows Tackle, Water Gun. If you're a Pokemon master in the field, you have to be a little patient. Here's the test. What happens when I try to out in Mew. - [Mew] Mew. - Error? Error? This is factually incorrect. Professor Oak, get on it man. What are you doing? You don't even know the first 151 Pokemon. How are you ever supposed to
keep up with the Pokerap huh? ♪ Gotta catch 'em all ♪ ♪ Gotta catch 'em all ♪ ♪ Pokemon ♪