- Hey guys, this is Austin! And today it is time to
upgrade Matt's 2010 Mac Pro? - Yeah, 2010. - Okay so, Matt has had an
unfortunate incident recently in that his dog broke his iMac screen. So, to hook him up, we're
gonna do a little bit of a project and see what
we can actually upgrade with his original Mac Pro. Also, if you guys don't
know Matt, he's the one who runs This Is and makes
fun of me on Mystery Tech. - It's true. - This is not a stock 2010 Mac Pro, right? It still works right now,
but you wanna basically see if you can get it a
little bit less garbage? - Yeah, like, I've done
some modifications with it. These are all USB two and there's no way to really change that. So then I needed USB three,
so I got this card here, which has worked really well for me but it needed dedicated power. It wouldn't run off the PC IE. - Wait, so did you, this came with an optical drive right? - It has two optical bays. The door doesn't like to close. (laughing) Turns out, there's nothing
meant to be right here. - So you've upgraded this several times over the years that
you've owned the Mac Pro. - Yes. - [Austin] So what are
you doing with the Mac Pro once we're done rebuilding it? - So I do video editing. - When was the last time you cleaned this? There's literally like an inch of dust on your graphics card. - [Matt] Probably never. - [Austin] Woo! - [Matt] This was an off road, uh. - Off road? - Yeah, so when I-- - So actually, you travel with this? - Yeah. - So can you run me through
the spec of this guy? So this is 2010, is it a quad core? - [Matt] It is a quad core, I think 2.6 gigahertz Xeon. - The first thing is, we should upgrade the CPU. If you're rocking the quad core, this goes up to, what is
it, like 10 cores, 12 cores? - It can do 12 cores maximum. - You've already got the hard drives. I think maybe we just swap out this SSD for something that's just
a little bit more modern, a little bit quicker. So we've got a task here. So I think the next step is
I need to do some googling and find some parts
and let's see if we can get this upgraded and back to 2019 specs. So it has been about, what, two weeks now? - Two weeks. - And we have everything we need for the ultimate Mac Pro. - Matt Pro. - The Matt Pro, apologies. So, the way that the Mac Pro works, is that while you can guy the CPUs, you can also buy the entire tray, which essentially is the motherboard. - We could have gone to a six core with a little bit better clock speed, but the real upgrade is
going to the dual socket. - Yes, so essentially what we have here are a pair of six core processors. Now it might not sound super impressive, thank you very much, in this sort of modern era where we have, you know, what, 32 cores in Threadripper, but 12 cores was a lot of power, especially for 2010. One of the interesting things about this is that the entire upgrade was actually not that expensive. So we were able to get the tray, which of course, is the motherboard, as well as the two CPUs
for a little bit over $500. Now this is like a what? Like a $6500 config
when it first came out? - Yeah, and that's not including the memory we got with it. - Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. So we also had to get, we
got 64 gigs as you can see by my giant pile of dents here. I mean I guess you do have the limitation that single thread is
probably not gonna be super impressive, but
what we're using it for is primarily like editing. - I do play the occasional game on it. - [Austin] Well you'll
definitely be able to game. - Oh yeah, I love my Civilization. - Boom, so with that, we have upgraded from a
quad core to a 12 core. And this entire setup with the new tray, the dual CPUs, the 64 gigs of RAM, still cost us only about $700, which obviously is a fair bit, but considering that if
you would have bought this in 2010, it would have been
at least 10 times that. Really not a bad upgrade. - So we went with a RX 580 AMD card. This is pretty much the maximum that the system can handle. - This is the original connector. It's a pair of six pins. - [Matt] Correct. - [Austin] And you've adapted
the six to an eight, which. - [Matt] Already is bad. - Alright, let's pull the 760 out. So this is actually built
in support for a longer CPU. - Mm hmm, yes.
- Oh, interesting. Actually, have we even measured to see if the Strix card will fit? - On paper. I mean, it, I eyeballed it.
- It'll be fine. - [Matt] It looked like it'll be. - It'll be fine. Oh we didn't clean this out. Why is there already a 14
terabyte hard drive in here? - I got excited. - Well okay then, so apparently, Matt's stealing company property and installing a 14 terabyte hard drive in his Mac Pro. - So when we started this project, it was running Sierra. And so we wanted to go to Mojave because we needed that for
the graphics card support. But it wouldn't let us upgrade it until we upgraded the
firmware of the motherboard. But there's a fun little
problem with that, is the only way to update the firmware is if you have the
original EFI graphics card. So we found a guy in town who had one and let us borrow his just to update the firmware. You're covered in dust right now. - I know! Why didn't you clean your dirty computer? - I thought that's what you were doing. - No, I'm upgrading it with
like 12 cores and stuff! I'm not cleaning. Do I look like a cleaning service? - [Matt] Full service, man. - What, that's (mumbling). So with that, we have our 12 core CPU, 16 gigs of RAM, and our RX 580. Next, let's upgrade your SSD. So with that, we've
got a one terabyte SSD. I think it's time to see if
this thing actually works. Matt, would you like to do the honors? - Yeah! Oh, it'd help to take
off my Powered By EVGA. - Nah, it's fine, it's fine, it's powered by EVA. Oh! - See a little RGB going here? - Yeah. - [Matt] Hey, it works! - [Austin] There you go! Alright. So we go up to about this mac. We see, there you go. Two three gigahertz six core intel Xeons. Hey, 64 gigs, okay cool. So all of our eight gig
dems are showing up. So for reference, we're
going from a quad core Xeon all the way up to a pair of six core CPUs and we're going from eight
gigs to 64 gigs of RAM. Now Geekbench I think should show a fairly substantial difference, especially in the multicore. 2734, 20,000 on the multicore! So single core obviously
is not that impressive. I mean, it's essentially
a 10 year old processor. But 20,000 on the multicore
for a 2010 system. That's ridiculous. - So for reference, before the upgrade, the single core was 2175 and the multicore was 7600. - Wow, that is a huge difference. Next up, we have Cinebench. Now not only will this test the CPU, but I'm also curious
to see how much higher the GPU score is. So, especially when you consider that this started out with a 5770. I mean, a 580's going to be, five, six times faster,
eight times the memory. I mean, it's a massive,
massive difference. So we're going from 43 to 59. That's not that good. Oh dude, look at that! I never get tired of seeing
like a million thread spin up for Cinebench. So you know what's crazy with this? It's not actually that expensive when you consider it, right? So what do you think it would have cost to first of all buy your
original Mac Pro chassis and just do the tray upgrade
with the memory and stuff? - I mean, I've see the original chassis go anywhere from 250 to about 450. The six core CPUs you
can get for like 180, which is bananas how cheap that is. And then the 580s I've
seen for 175 brand new. - So, realistically, all of the upgrades we've done to this
system are about $1,000. Maybe a little bit more
considering that we have the one, well okay, the 14 terabyte
drive is like $500. - That's overkill. - We're gonna ignore that part of it. To really put this to the test, we have our resident editing
man, Jimmy Champagne. - That's me! I'm here. - So we are editing
off of an external SSD. So we're using this little Samsung T5 which is plugged into Matt's USPC card. - [Jimmy] So that's pretty standard. - Yeah, which is what we
edit all of our videos on. But it seems to be fine. - So now we're gonna try
and sync the footage, see how quick that goes. That went as quick as
it does on the iMac Pro. We'll do better quality. - This is unrendered 4k pro res right now. Oh, we're getting your texts. Uh oh, this is bad. - Is this a woman? (laughing) - Oo, Matt got quiet fast. - [Jimmy] Background
render is a little slower than the iMac Pro. - Wait, so basically,
you have a 10 core iMac. - Yeah. - Which is obviously faster. But when you compare this
to something like a MacBook or an iMac, this is still more powerful. - I'd say it's noticeably
faster than the MacBook, but noticeable slower than the iMac Pro. So it's falling somewhere between. - Which is pretty impressive
for a nine year old desktop which we just
Frankensteined together with like less than
$1,000 worth of products. So that my friends is building
the ultimate Matt Pro. For something that's this old, the amount of power we were able to get, especially considering the price is super, super impressive. So if you'll excuse me, I'm going to buy a lot more
of these and have some fun. That actually sounded really ominous, like as if I'm gonna
build some super computer out of Mac Pros. I'm actually not gonna
buy any more of these. - [Matt] Aw.