Long ago, maybe upwards of 1-2 million years ago, 
a river in the central part of what’s now Italy,   emptied into what’s now the Ligurian Sea. It 
still does, by the way, but it did back then   too. As the sea rose and fell from the tides 
and the river moved sediment downstream, silt   and soil were deposited across the landscape. In 
one little spot, in what is now the city of Pisa,   that sea and that river deposited a little bit 
more sand to the north and a little bit more clay   to the south. And no one knew or cared until 
around the year 1173, when construction of a   bell tower, or campanile (camp-uh-NEE-lee) for 
the nearby cathedral began. You know the rest   of this story. For whatever reason, we humans 
love stuff like the Leaning Tower. There’s just   something special about a massive structure that 
looks like it’s about to fall over. But you might   not know that it almost did. Over the roughly six 
centuries from when it was built to modern times,   that iconic tilt continued to increase to a point 
in 1990 when the tower was closed to the public   for fear that it was near collapse. The Italian 
Government appointed a committee of engineers,   architects, and experts in historical restoration 
to decide how to fix the structure once and for   all (or at least for the next several centuries, 
we hope). And the way they did it is really pretty   cool, if you’re into recreational geology and 
heavy construction. And, who isn’t!? I’m Grady,   and this is Practical Engineering. Today 
we’re talking about the Leaning Tower of Pisa. Five-and-a-half degrees. That was the average tilt 
of the tower in 1990 when all this got started.   I have to say average because the tilt isn’t the 
same all the way up. And actually, that fact makes   it possible to track the history of the lean back 
before it was being monitored. The tower started   construction in 1173 and reached about a third of 
its total height by 1178 when work was interrupted   by medieval battles with neighboring states. 
When work started back up nearly a century later,   the tower was already tilting. But the 
masons didn’t tear it down and start over;   they just made one side taller than the other 
to bring the structure back into plumb. By 1278,   the tower had reached the seventh cornice, the 
top of the main structure minus the belfry,   when work was interrupted again. One short 
century later, the belfry was finally built,   and again with a relative tilt to the rest 
of the structure to correct for the continued   lean. On the south side of the belfry, there are 6 
stairs down to the main tower; on the north side,   only four. The result of all this compensation 
by the builders is that the Leaning Tower of   Pisa is actually curved. Knowing the timeline 
of construction and how the tilt varies over   the height of the structure allowed historians 
to estimate how much sinking and settling the   foundation underwent over time. By 1817, when 
the first recorded measurement was taken,   the inclination of the tower was about 
4.9 degrees, and it just kept going. The new committee charged with investigating 
the issue first spent a lot of their time simply   characterizing the situation. They drilled 
boreholes and tested the soil. They estimated   stability using simple hand calculations. 
They built a scale model of the tower and   tested how far it could lean before it toppled. 
They developed computer models of the tower and   its foundation to see how different soil 
characteristics would affect its stability.   All of the analysis and various engineering 
investigations all pointed toward the same result:   the tower was very near to collapse.  In 1993, one researcher estimated the factor of safety to be  1.07, meaning (generally) that the underlying soil 
could withstand a mere 7 percent more weight than   the tower was imposing on it. There was basically 
no margin left to let the tower continue its lean.   A similar tower in Pavia had collapsed in 1989, 
and the committee knew they needed to act quickly. To start, they installed a modern monitoring 
system that could better track any movement   over time, including surveying benchmarks and 
inclinometers. I have a video all about this   type of instrumentation if you want to learn 
more after this. The committee also opted to   take immediate temporary measures to stabilize 
the tower with something that could eventually   be removed before developing a permanent fix. 
They built a concrete ring around the base of   the tower and gradually placed lead ingots, about 
600 tons in total, on the north side to act as a   counterweight to the overhanging structure. 
As they added each layer of counterweights,   they monitored the tilt of the tower. It was ugly, 
but it worked. For the first time in history,   the tower was moving in the right direction. A few 
months after they finished the project, the tower   settled into a tilt that was about 48 arcseconds 
or a hundredth of a degree less than before. In fact, it worked so well, the committee decided 
to take it one step further. To reduce the visual   impact of all those lead weights, they proposed to 
replace them with ten deep anchors that would pull   the northern side of the tower downward to the 
ground like huge rubber bands. This fix didn’t   go quite so smoothly. The engineers had assumed 
that the walkway around the base of the tower,   called the Catino, was structurally separate 
from the tower. But what they found during   construction of the anchor solution was that 
some of the tower was resting on the Catino.   The project required removal of part of the 
catino to make room for a concrete block,   and when they did, the tower started tilting 
again, this time in the wrong direction,   and fast (about 4 arc seconds per 
day, enough for serious concern that   the tower might collapse). They quickly 
abandoned the anchoring plan and added   350 more tonnes of lead weights to stop the 
movement and focus on a permanent solution. Engineering ANY solution to a structure 
of this scale with such a severe tilt is   a challenge in the best circumstances. But 
adding on the fact that the solution had   to maintain the historical appearance of the 
building (including leaving the right amount   of lean!) made it even tougher. And after 
the near disaster of the temporary fix,   the committee knew they would have to be 
extremely diligent. They ultimately came   up with three ideas to save the tower. The 
first one was to pump out groundwater from   the sand below the north side of the tower, 
but they didn’t feel confident that they could   predict how the structure would respond over 
the long term. Another idea was electroosmosis. If you’ve seen some of my other videos about 
settlement, you know that it’s hard to get water   out of clay, and there are quite a few clever 
ways engineers use to make it happen faster. One   of those ways involves inserting electrodes into 
the soil and passing electric current through it.   Clay particles have a negative surface charge, so 
the majority of the ions in the water between the   particles are positively charged. Electro-osmotic 
consolidation takes advantage of this by applying   a voltage across the soil, causing the water to 
migrate toward the cathode where it can be pumped   to the surface. The idea seemed promising because, 
by carefully choosing the location of electrodes,   engineers hoped they could selectively consolidate 
the clay below the north side of the tower,   reducing its overall tilt. They even performed 
a large-scale field test near the tower to shake   out some of the kinks and gather data on 
the effectiveness of the technique. But,   it didn’t work at all. Turns out the soil was 
too conductive, so things like electrolysis,   corrosion, heat, and all the other 
effects of mixing electricity and   saturated soil made the process pretty 
much useless for this particular case. So, the committee was down to one last idea: 
underexcavation. If they couldn’t get the soil   below the tower to consolidate, they could just 
take some out. And again, they would need to test   it out first. So, in 1995, they built a large 
concrete footing on the Piazza grounds not far   from the Tower. Then, they used inclined drills to 
bore underneath the footing and gradually remove   some of the underlying soil. Guide tubes 
kept the boring in the right direction,   and a hollow stem auger inside two casings 
was advanced below the footing. The outer   casing stayed in place while the inner casing 
moved with the auger. The auger and the inner   casing were advanced past the outer casing to 
create a void, and when they were retracted,   the cavity would gently close. At first, it wasn’t 
looking good. After an initial tilt in the right   direction, the test footing started leaning 
the wrong way. But the crew continued refining   the process and eventually got it to work, even 
finding it was possible to steer the movements   by changing the sequence of underexcavation. It 
was finally time to try it on the real thing. Knowing the risks and uncertainties involved, 
the engineers first designed a safeguard system   for the tower if things started to 
go awry. Cable stays were attached   between the tower and anchoring frames.  The cables could each be tightened individually, giving the engineers opportunity to stop 
movement in any undesirable direction if   the drilling didn’t go as planned. In 1999, they 
started a preliminary trial with 12 holes. And   the plan went perfectly.   Over the course 
of 5 months, the underexcavation brought  the tilt up by 90 arcseconds, and after a few 
more months, it settled in at 130 arcseconds,   about four hundredths of a degree. This gave the 
committee confidence to move on to the final plan. Starting in 2000, 41 holes were drilled 
to slowly tilt the tower upright. Over   the course of a year, 38 cubic meters of 
soil were removed from below the tower,   roughly 70 tonnes. The lead counterweights 
were removed. A drainage system was installed   to control the fluctuating groundwater levels 
that exacerbated the tilt. And, the tower was   structurally attached to the Catino, increasing 
the effective area of the foundation. In the end,   the project had reduced the tilt of the tower 
by about half a degree, in effect reversing   time to the early 1800s when its likelihood 
of toppling was much lower. Of course, they   didn’t straighten it all the way. The lean isn’t 
just a fascinating oddity; it is integral to the   historical character of the tower. It’s a big part 
of why we care. Tilting is in the Campanile’s DNA,   and in that way, the stabilization project was 
just a continuation of an 850-year-old process.   Unlike the millions of photos with tourists 
pretending to hold the tower up, the contractors,   restoration experts, and engineers actually 
did it (for the next few centuries, at least). The logistics of the operation to fix the 
Leaning Tower are really the most fascinating   part of the whole project. This idea of inclined 
drilling to carefully remove soil with so much   precision is an insider story at its core. On 
the surface, it’s not really that interesting,   but if you dig deeper, you see how ingenious 
it really was. I love those kinds of stories,   and I figured you probably do too, so I have 
a recommendation for you: The Logistics of X.   These videos are put together by the same team 
as the Wendover Productions YouTube channel,   and they’re so good. Just deep dives into 
various industries that would otherwise   seem uninteresting if you didn’t get to peek 
behind the curtain and see how they really   work. I had no idea that so much of the 
US coal supply comes from a single county. Maybe you’ve noticed what I 
have over the past few years,   which is that all my favorite TV networks are 
just running reality shows, and even high-budget   documentaries that stream online just don’t go 
deep enough for my tastes. Almost everything   I watch now is being made by independent 
creators like Brian from Real Engineering,   Sam from Wendover, Scotty from Strange 
Parts, and Integza. Sam’s series,   the Logists of X (along with a lot more 
excellent content) is only available on   Nebula, the streaming platform built by and for 
independent educational creators, including me. Nebula is basically the answer to the question 
of what could happen if the best channels on   YouTube didn’t have to cater to an algorithm. 
It’s just a different model that changes the   incentives and the rewards, and it’s come so 
far. It’s totally ad-free, with tons of excellent   educational channels and lots of original series 
and specials that just wouldn’t see the light of   day if they were produced for YouTube where you 
have to optimize for clickability. It’s a great   last-minute holiday gift; an annual plan is 
only thirty dollars. And for a limited time,   Nebula is selling lifetime memberships for $300. 
No tricks or gimmicks, just skip the monthly or   annual subscription, pay once, and you have 
access forever. My videos go live on Nebula   before they come out on YouTube. If you’re with me 
that independent creators are the future of great   video, I hope you’ll consider subscribing. Thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think!