- This video was supposed to be so simple. How much better is it to
go from a solid front panel to a mesh front panel
when you've got high end, power hungry, hot components, but then we got some
really anomalous data. How could adding Noctua
fans all over our mesh case, possibly put it in a position where our GPU is running
at the same temperatures as this here hotbox. The only way to find out, is to use our new smoke machine. Hit me with the smoke poof! - You want a little bit of
smoke or a lot of smoke? - Smoke me! - [Nick] All right. - That is weak. - [Nick] No hold on, it
was doing better before. (smoke machine sounding) - That's all it's got? I told you guys to get
the good smoke machine. - We did. The other one was like 1500 bucks. - Well anyway, there's a dead spot. You can see it. We'll get you more details in a minute. And this video is brought
to you by Micro Center, who sells of course both
solid front panel cases and mesh ones. So ultimately I guess they
don't care which one wins, which is good, no conflict of interest. (upbeat music) To kick off our intended video, mesh versus solid front panels, we turned to the NZXT H510, in case that was notorious
for looking great, but having very poor ventilation. Now, to their credit NZXT did listen and gave us the H510 flow, which is the exact same case
just with a mesh front panel, which means that should be fine, right? Just drill some sweet speed holes and bang boom you're off to the races. Hmm, well yes, but actually no. As you can see, despite the
flows, improved flow of air, our core I9, 12900K hits 100 degrees on the package with the stock fans. And even the mighty NHT
15 cooler couldn't attain this 250 Watt beast without us resorting to drastic measures. We then swapped out
the stock fans thinking maybe they were the
problem for some Noctuas, which brought us down to 97 degrees, which well, it isn't exactly amazing, but it did at least stop
the thermal throttling that we experienced before unlocking the maximum
performance potential of our CPU and demonstrating once and for all that mesh front panels
are indisputably better than solid ones, which don't
allow any air through them no matter how many
Noctua fans you install. So why is this video only 1/3 over? Let's talk about our GPU. Yeah, we've got one. It's an RTX 3090 and it
did run a little cooler when we switched over to the flow, but only by a few degrees. Then our 20 minute Fur Mark soak, saw temps rise steadily
to roughly 79 degrees on the stock fans with the solid panel and then 84 degrees with
the Noctua fans and the... Wait, I know what you're thinking, that can't be right. But we triple checked, in both cases, while the Noctua fans, markedly
improved our CPU thermals, they actively hindered our GPU thermals, and there's nothing
wrong with our NF-A 12's. They're great fans and available at your local Micro Center, by the way. Don't forget, they sponsored this video. So what the devil is going on here? To start our investigation, we're gonna dial things back a little and use a gaming rather than
a synthetic load for our test. We looped our F1 2021
benchmark for 30 minutes and we got better results, seeing a drop of six degrees
on the flow on our CPU and seven degrees on the GPU. Though that's a solid improvement
going from solid to mesh, but then again, we swapped to our Noctua
fans and the CPU improves while the GPU heats up, though at least our mesh
case still did manage to see better numbers than
our solid front panel. Guys, we are running
exactly the same components in all of our tests. Yes, we built and rebuilt
these PCs enough times to need some refreshing ice
cold water, lttstore.com. And we double-checked our compatibility with Micro Center's
custom PC builder tool. We're gonna have everything in an affiliate link down below. So what is going on here? Let's take a look at our smoke test, with our stock fan set
up, it's not so bad. Air gets pulled in, wafts all around our components with a good chunk getting
pulled into our CPU cooler and some circulating around our GPU, then it gets exhausted out the back. It's clear now, though, that part of our problem
is this huge graphics card in such a small case, it's almost right up against our fans, and you can see that
the air gets pulled in and hits a wall causing turbulence. When we swapped to our
Noctuas, we thought, "Wow, these things are so quiet, we could spin them faster while maintaining the same noise level." But get this, at such a high RPM, the turbulence becomes even worse. And we got small pockets
of air in front of, and underneath the GPU that
were just recirculating, being heated up multiple
times before going anywhere. You can see our CPU cooler
is still getting plenty of fresh air, so it's fine better than before even, but it's pushed right up against our 3090, not quite touching, but not much of a gap for
air to pass through either. So almost nothing is able to circulate around the GPU's back plate. More fans, more better though, right? We certainly thought so, but since now we have all this air intake, but no extra exhaust, there's only one spot for a
fan on the top of the H510 and good luck getting
a regular thickness one up there with our motherboard. All this extra front fan ends up doing, is putting even more
pressure on the top stream. And since it's blowing too
fast for our CPU cooler to keep up with, we also get some turbulence
at the top front of the case where air cycles around for a bit before it can be vented out. Anything trying to come up
from the bottom is instead, constantly pushed toward the back. So in a nutshell, you can
pull in all the air you want, but if it can't leave or if it passes over a hot tower cooler
before getting pushed down into your GPU, you're gonna have a pretty bad time as the air heats up inside your case. Obviously there are a ton of
other fan configurations, cases and hardware to examine, so make sure to get subscribed so you don't miss our
upcoming LTT Labs content where we'll be exploring
this in much more depth. All of the side crusting
out of the way though, it's time to revisit
our original question, mesh or non mesh? We chose a bit of an
extreme example as the H510 only has this tiny strip
on the side for airflow, but it really was a huge difference. Look how little air we suck
in through these side vents, even with our intake heavy configuration, even when we blasted
our fogger more directly at the side vent, it hardly helped. So a mesh front panel at this
point seems pretty obvious, but PC building is often about balance and your own personal preference. The more power you're
after for work or gaming, the stronger the components need to be and the hotter they might get, so the better cooling solutions
obviously gonna be the best. On the other hand, if you've got a PC with
integrated graphics, that's meant for light
office work or light gaming, you probably don't even need to think about what kind of case
and cooler you buy. Whatever you need though, you can find it at today's
sponsor, Micro Center. If their online builder
tool, isn't enough, just head inside and ask for help from any of their
knowledgeable staff members. Their stores often have plenty of stock even with the current chip shortages. And they've recently renovated
their flagship location in Tustin, California, to make it easier to find
what you're looking for. If you live nearby and
you haven't gone in yet, check them out. New customers can get a free 240 gig SSD just by following the links below, offer valid in store only,
no purchase necessary. If you enjoyed this video, maybe go check out our
one-year airflow experiment. In the stunning conclusion, we see which fan configurations result in the most dust buildup in your PC.