- This brand new iPhone costs $1,500. But for the exact same amount of money, I bought all of these tech at a pawn shop. Which one would you pick? (upbeat hiphop music) So, this is all the stuff that we were able to get from the various pawn shops. This is either one of the best ideas we've ever had, or one of the absolute worst. But we got some good stuff here. So for $380 was it a good idea to buy a used Samsung Galaxy S10e and a pair of very legitimate AirPods? Let's find out. So, take a look at the box. I mean, it looks fairly legit. It even has a little embossing. It does not say Apple anywhere though. It just says wireless charging case. So, Okay, yeah! That looks like a pair of AirPods! Oh, wow! It's even got a lightning port on the back. Which actually is slightly more annoying, 'cause lightning is not a good feature. But sure, whatever. I mean, these look
pretty reasonable to me. Let's take the real and the fake and put them side by side. I mean, that looks close. That looks very close. I do kind of doubt with this girl is real. It doesn't really has quite that same depth. If you have another pair of AirPods side by side, you're probably not going to notice the difference. Okay. Let's pair them up with out S10e see what happens. Okay, I got to put my, my actual AirPods up for a second. 'Cause I'm getting very confused. Let's play a little video, shall we? No, not Samsung Pay, no. All right. Yes, it has a Bixby button. I mean, they're not terrible. I mean, it does feel like they're EQ'd very heavy on the bass side. But, it's not super offensive. Certainly not like some of the super cheap knockoffs we've tried. One thing I'll say, it pauses and plays when I take them in and out of my ears. That's a sure good thing. I mean, we can put them side by side with the real AirPods. I know, though, that the real AirPods sound better. Yeah. That's a lot nicer. My bigger question though, is going to be the S10e. Because I did a video on this. I forgot, was it 2 years ago now? 2 and a half years ago? And I really liked this phone. So what you're getting here is really the only time Samsung ever made a small flagship. Something similar to the iPhone 12 mini. And this was Samsung, back in the good old glory days. Take a little look here. We've got ourselves a headphone Jack. Yes, friends. You could plug in physical headphones and not just AirPods. On top of that, this also has a micro SD card slot. And in many ways, it's kind of like what a lot of enthusiasts were always asking for, for phones to bring back, the S10e still had it. I can actually use the S10e to wirelessly charge. That was one of the things that these didn't have. So, put the fake AirPods on. Not working. Okay. And then I'll put my real AirPods on. Immediately works. There's a lot of good stuff about this phone. But my big question here is really going to be less about the phone, I already know it's great, but how do we actually come out on the value side? Because we were sitting at 3? - [Matt] 80. - $380 for the two, which doesn't seem like, like a terrible deal. But how much does it actually cost if I want to buy an S10e and I want to buy a pair of fake AirPods. (giggles) Okay. So we done fu-(ooh) up. You get a renewed S10e, unlocked, just like this one, from Amazon for $277. (laughs) Do I even want to look up the fake AirPods? On the AirPods, I don't think these are particularly worth it. On the S10e, I actually do think this phone is worth it. If you buy it from Amazon and not from a pawn shop. So, I think it's safe to say we took an L on this one. This video is sponsored by Morning Brew. Morning Brew is a free daily email newsletter, covering the world of business, finance, and tech. I think a lot of people could appreciate how Morning Brew is wittier and more relevant than traditional news outlets, which let's face it, can be a little bit boring sometimes. I used to open social media immediately after waking up, but it feels a lot more productive getting all my news in one spot, instead of aimlessly
scrolling all morning. The recent write-up on Google I/O is a great example of the top level stuff that I really do need to know. And best of all, it's free. So if you're interested in business, finance, or tech, you'll definitely want to subscribe to Morning Brew at the link in the description. At $340, we paid way too much for this PS3. Now, it is modded. It is using what's, what's the mod? Oh, re, REBUG. I'll immediately say one thing. This is a modern controller. Take a look at this. It's got a Xbox 360 left stick. You see that? Someone actually, like, cracked the plastic and drop, dropped the stick in. - [Matt] The stick on the
right is also not DualShock. - Is it not? - [Matt] Nope. - What is this? - [Matt] PS4. - All right, off to a weird start. Now we purchased this, supposedly, already modded, loaded up with games and stuff, but I don't even know where to start. Wait, there's one PS2 game? Wait, but that, wait. - [Matt] We got told that there were thousands of games. - Yes. We were definitely pitched that there were thousands
of games on this. Oh, other OS. Oh! Okay, that's actually kind of cool. So, the early models of the PS3 actually did support other OS aka Linux. That was famously taken away because people were modding them. But I guess if you do mod your PS3, you can get it back. That's kind of cool. There we go. That looks much more like it. Okay. Now we have what are supposedly thousands of games, and that is in fact, a lot of games. What's Age of Booty? Burnout Paradise. All right. (controller clicks) Oh! These aren't games that are installed. These are games that you can download from the pirate server. There's nothing installed on this. This is literally just going through the list of games you want to download. - [Matt] To be fair, I don't think 50 gigs worth of games. - Oh, you, there's got to be something on here, right? I mean, there's like Three Wonders, Altered Beast, and NMCM, whatever that is, that's it. If I download some games, which of course, I would never do because that's illegal. But theoretically, if some games are downloaded to this, sure, fine. Let's actually see though, what a modded PS3 with REBUG actually runs. Here's a PS3 that sold for $173 with a 1 terabyte hard drive. So this one that we could have bought, it was half the price, already was completely disassembled, had some Arctic Silver installed on CPU and GPU. They applied all the updates and they load it up. - So there were actual.
- REBUG and... - [Matt] There were actual like, refurbishment happening too. That's... - Yeah. So look, if you want to go mod your PS3, by all means, go ahead. But if you're going to charge $300 plus for the privilege when you can get a nicer, better model on eBay for like 180 bucks? L-town. Bad. I regret everything right now. This is not good. - [Matt] You didn't even want to play it. - I don't want to play it, now. If I play it, I'm going to play, look, there's two games on it. I'm gonna be, oh, cool, it's a game. Meh. I'd rather sulk in my sadness and defeat. It seems like a much better idea right now than looking at this thing anymore. All right, so, before we actually get our MacBook up and running, we do have a brand new battery for it. Other than that, it should pretty much be good to go. There's not really a lot wrong with this. It already had a lot of upgrades. But before we do that, well, we need to up our camera game. Sure, we might have nice 4k crispy cams, but nothing's going to touch our Nikon D3300. Three away from being a good camera. Ehem! So this was the camera, or at least a slightly earlier version of this camera that really was hugely helpful for me back in the day. Eight, nine, ten years ago, I shot so many videos on one of these Nikons. Now, to be fair, I haven't used one of these in, I'll say here, a long time. So let's see if I remember literally anything. This brings me back. That feels terrible. (camera lens shuttering) So one thing I've actually noticed with this is that, it came with the kit lens, but if you look really closely there, there's a big old scratch right across the lens. So that may impact our image quality. I'm sure it'll be fine, though. Theoretically, we're up and running. So, I can zoom in. It gets quite dark, so we're going to stay wide. I don't think there's anything else for it. So goodbye, crispy 4k quality and enter the Nikon D3300. Welcome to the pawn shop camera crew. I'm really curious to see what the Nikon actually
looks like right now. - [Ken] It looks pretty decent actually, at least on the little tiny screen. - All right. This is the moment of truth. First thing I see here, so indefinitely upgrade this aftermarket. So we do have a Samsung SSD. That's actually nice. So it's got eight plus eight gigs of RAM, three screws, and our battery has been removed. Put that off to the side and grab our Egoway. I will say you always, should be mildly cautious of a third party battery. This is one we had on it. We got on Amazon that had good reviews. So it should be fine, but just a little word of warning. So we just slide it into the tabs here, and then, it should be as simple as just lining up our little connector and we've got three screws, and we've got a fresh battery. Did that take what? Five minutes? Not even. It's kinda unfortunate because you look at something like this. And even though this MacBook is almost a decade old, if not even longer, it's so easy to upgrade it and make it usable today. Right? So someone already puts
more Ram in, super simple. You throw an SSD in there. That's going to be a ton of performance and then swapping out the battery is just a matter of a few screws. Unfortunately, modern systems and specifically MacBooks, they don't really have that same level of flexibility. It's kind of like you get what you get and if you're not happy with it, buy a new MacBook. Battery shows up, condition normal, one cycle count, battery
installed and charging. There we go. Simple as that, we've got ourselves a fresh new battery 16 gigs of RAM, SSD. So I think what I need to do now, is take the footage that you've already been watching from this Nikon D3300, drop it into my SD card slot on the MacBook, and edit and see if I can actually cut a video on this very, very old set up. All right. After having edited the last minute or so of the footage on the MacBook I can confirm, it is a completely reasonable experience. Especially when you're cutting something like 1080p, man, even old harbor like this with a good editor, like final cut has no problem. All right. So the best thing that I got at Frankenstein was this clear Nintendo DS Lite. So now this has been completely modified with some brand new screens, as well as a brand new clear chassis. But also comes with a free copy of an R4 cards. Now, of course, if you don't want to flash your games, you can be like me, and play your authentic copy of Pokemon Black 2. But, just to show you
what this is all about, why don't we load this up? Look, I'm playing my
copy of Diddy Kong Racing via the R4 cards. Also, I like how with the clear shell you can see there's literally nothing going on back here. (giggles) There's so little inside of the DS. I was playing Black 2 on my 3DS or actually my new 3DS XL. But the problem is, the DS games. Don't look as good on 3DS's. 'Cause you have to have them like scaled up or you have to press start and select. And they run in that smaller mode. I much prefer playing on legitimate DS hardware. It just looks nice and crisp. So $150 might not seem like, a particularly a good deal for a DS, but over the last year, DS's, 2DS's, 3DS's, and all, skyrocketed in the price. People are so hyped up about the old school retro stuff, right? Which is fine, but it is so obscenely expensive. What I can say though, is that my copy, that was completely
purchased authentically 10 years ago or 8 years ago, Pokemon Black 2 works. No problem. You're, you ready for the best part of this game? (game beeping and whirring) (suspenseful beeping music) - Come on. That's like the best, like 15, when it hits, it hits hard man, it hits hard. Now, for the next item, we have a Nintendo 2DS, which is to be fair, seen slightly better days since it was clearly
attacked with a Sharpie. But importantly, I was able to pick it up for only $45. So she just need a quick coat of paint, and it'll be a good as new. Right? I really just want to paint the front to make it look a little more presentable. It might be able to do the buttons as well. Although they're fairly fine. I guess the question is, are we going to have something which looks better, but it's a lot harder or do we take the lazy approach, and I just paint it. No, no, no, no, no, no spray paint for me. No spray paint for me. That's what I need, right? A paint marker, so I can be lazy? - [Ken] No. Spray paint might actually be the move. - You want me to spray paint? - [Ken] Yeah. - That seems questionable. So, okay. So we go black, red, and then sealer. This is about to go very poorly. All right. So, now comes the part of the video that I'm going to coin. We're going to spend way more time on this than we actually should. You know one thing I realized, we bought this actually without a charger. And we saved like what, 10 or 15 bucks when we purchased it, we actually have not tested this. And I don't have a 3DS
or 2DS charger here. So it's a real possibility that we're going to take this apart, paint it, and then turn it back on. It doesn't do anything. And it doesn't do anything. (gentle techno music) So, whoa! Now we got the buttons out. (laughs) How many buttons do you really need to our 2DS anyway? Well, if you've ever wondered, this is the inside of the 2DS. So these, this is the
screen or the screens. This is the one that actually has the
touch sensitive layer. And this one does not. But when you open it up, it just has one big screen with a bunth of, with a bunth of, with a bunch of masking on it. - So Austin went through the Liberty of doing masks on the inside. And he also did a mask on a screen to be fair. But I came up with this idea of, I don't know if you guys have ever used Sharpie on a white board, but, in order to get the Sharpie off the whiteboard, what you could actually do is just take a dry erase marker and draw over the Sharpie and then erase it. And usually the Sharpie comes off. You have a spot in the corner. You also have some bits here on the shiny bezels. - [Austin] So what happened before was, the night that the kid who had this before use
Sharpie on the plastic, but they Sharpied over the actual screen as well. - Let's see if that does it. Oh, look at that. - [Austin] Wow. That's pretty good. - It, it did the thing. Don't think it works on the matte surface, but that's totally fine, because we're going to spray paint over it any way. - So with our 2DS expertly masked off, you may have one big question, and that is, "Austin, aren't you an expert painter?" And, I would therefore submit to the evidence of the last time I spray painted. (spray paint swooshing) - [Wes] Even coats, man. - [Austin] So you can clearly see that I am a certified painting pro who is absolutely qualified to do this, and it's not going to get paint and primer all over my pants or my very cool shirt. Yes. The wind is going in this direction. So I will, I'll do some long right now. I'm just kidding. (spray paint swooshing) - [Ken] This is already
significantly better than the last time you did it. - Thanks, man. So we're gonna just say it. That's good. We're gonna let that
sit there for a minute. I'll do one more coat and then we'll let it dry. That's not that bad though. Right? (Ken scoffs) All right. It has been actually over two hours since we started. Let's take a look and see how it came out. I mean, that's, that's pretty good. I mean, it feels nice and smooth. There's a little, bit of a rough edge there. That's not so bad. So, now I think the goal is to hit it with a little bit of that red paint. Thank you very much. Apparently it dries in 10 minutes or less. So let's hit it with a couple of coats of this and see how it comes out. I'm an expert now, famous last words. (spray paint swooshing) Ooh, I don't like that at all. It's like blowing in the wind. (spray paint swooshing) All right. Set your watches. 10 minutes from now, we'll see how that comes out, but I like that color. - [Ken] So, how's it going? - So there's good news and there's bad news. The good news, is that I think my paint job looks pretty good. Don't mind the slight sinking-in of the plastic. I think I actually may have been a little bit aggressive with the paint on the plastic, but it's fine. - [Ken] From afar, it's okay. - From afar it looks okay. It looks better than a did. My unfortunate part is that it, it wasn't actually power on. Now. I can get the light to show up when I, when I plug it in. The problem though, is if you look on the back, this battery is massively swollen. So actually never tested if this would work. And I regret that now, because I'm pretty sure my battery is the problem. I'm going to steal a battery from another 2DS. That was so graciously provided by Matt over here. Thanks, Matt. I really appreciate your support. And I'm going to put this in, and see if that'll actually get me to boot my 2DS. Cause if not, it broken and I'm gonna be sad. - [Ken] Well, so what are the odds that you broke something when you took it apart? The first time? - I don't think I actually broke anything. Everything went back together. I've got all my ribbons reconnected. Let's just go for it. Let's just plug it in and see what happens. Oh! The blue light's on. The blue light wasn't on before. Oh, it's off. (sighs) I'll admit this one's my bad. I should have tested the 2DS before we took it apart and I painted it for hours. So they, when I inevitably run into problems with it, not working. I can know whether it's my fault. That I somehow put something together incorrectly, highly doubtful. Because I clearly know what I'm doing or it's the fact that I bought a broken 2DS from a pawn shop. And that really sums up this video. Doesn't it? I think it's possible that we spent twice as much buying stuff from pawn
shops as we could have. We actually, would've gotten it from reputable retailers such as Amazon. We're experts getting ripped off. And I'm expert at spending way too much time on my poor 2DS that doesn't work. I'm so sad. You had so much life to give.