- AI is moving incredibly quickly. And today, Microsoft have
fired the first real shot by integrating some
real ChatGPT technology directly into both Bing as well as Edge. Now at a base level, there are two things
I'm talking about today. One is Bing, which is
Microsoft's search engine which has been a distant second place to Google as far as the search side goes. On the other side is Edge. Edge is a browser which is
built from the ground floor of Internet Explorer way back in the day and is also kind of based on Google tech underneath the hood, but
essentially that is the web browser that is preloaded not
only on all Windows PCs but is available pretty
much everywhere you go. Linux, Mac, phones, you name it. Not only is Edge the best way to access the massively upgraded Bing, but importantly, there are
actual smarts involved here. With just a few keystrokes, Edge can summarize a webpage
for you, write an email, or tell you who the greatest
tech YouTuber of all time is. Second greatest tech
YouTuber of all time is. Now, the new version of Edge
is only currently available in the developer build of
Edge for Windows and for Mac, so I've got it running
on the Mac right now. You'll also see that they've
actually redesigned the UI which is nice, but the most important thing is you'll see this little Bing button on the right which will open up the Bing bar. So I'm on my page right now and say I want to find out, I don't know. What's the most popular
video on this channel? Okay. Now by doing that, it's going
to understand what page I'm on so it understands that I'm
on the Austin Evans page and then it will then say, okay, the most popular video
is BROKE vs PRO Gaming, which has been viewed more
than 25 million times. So what's doing here is
it's using not only ChatGPT and the ability to pull from the web, but also it is understanding the context of what I'm looking at. I don't have to just go on
bing.com and do a search. It's built directly into Edge and as long as I'm asking it about like, oh, this page or this channel, it will be able to pull
that information for me and understand the context. So for a little bit more
of a practical example, here's an article from
The Wall Street Journal. It's about how Russia's cutting
oil output due to sanctions. It's a little bit of a long article. So instead of reading the whole thing, which I probably should, I'm gonna open this up
and I'm gonna ask Bing to give me a little bit of a summary. Explain to me why this story is important. So what it should do is
understand the context that I'm on this particular web page on The Wall Street Journal, and now it is giving me an answer in a much, much shorter sort of form describing that it's used as a retaliation for Western sanctions. That is a very quick and
easy way to understand, which admittedly for this, I should probably just
read the actual article. But imagine I'm looking
at some financial doc, maybe I'm doing some research
on some long boring thing that I don't wanna have
to read 50 pages of a PDF. To me, this is the main reason why Edge is so much better now. So for some context, Microsoft
has invested in OpenAI, which is the company
who has created things such as DALL·E which I'm sure you've seen which will allow you to type a prompt in and generate a really cool-looking image. They also developed ChatGPT, which is easy to forget only
launched a couple of months ago and absolutely has taken
the internet by storm. Now, Microsoft as a key investor in OpenAI and therefore a top of
the priority list customer to get access to ChatGPT and some of the language
models behind that, has immediately started to
incorporate a lot of this tech into a wide variety of Microsoft products. As far as I'm concerned, the biggest version of this
is going to be what you see in search and in the web browsers. So for context, we are
out here in Redmond. Microsoft was very kind to invite us out to get a very early sneak peek. So the new Bing is actually already live, so it's going to be rolling out in a couple of different phases. But what I've got access to is
the full unrestricted version of both Bing as well as the new Edge. I'll start out with something simple. Who is Austin Evans? 'Cause I'm a narcissist. We've got a few things to look at here. So, on the left side, I'm looking at a traditional
search experience, but on the right side, it's actually in this little Bing bar. It's telling me a bunch
of additional information. Next question, what's his net worth? Let's find out. So as soon as I tap that, it actually moves me up to
the chat interface, right? So what you saw there was the search that just
had the chat on the side, but then you actually can
go and do the full chat. The search results show
different estimates of Austin Evans' net worth. And on top of that, it's
also trying to cite sources. He gets income from sponsorships and he's married to Karen Evans, who is his longtime best friend. How true you are, Bing, how true you are. Where this really differs
from the version of ChatGPT that you can just freely
access on the OpenAI site is in not only the language model, which is this is an upgraded version that's been customized by Microsoft, but importantly, this is
also online connected. Now, while ChatGPT is very impressive, it is trained on an
offline data set from 2021, which means if you ask it what happened at the NBA game last night,
it will have no idea. But with Bing now, it can pull
live data from the internet. This is a major improvement, but it is not without its downsides. Who is some of the
companies that sponsor him? Great question. So right now, I'm just going
through the regular flow. I'm learning a lot about myself, honestly. The search results do not
give a definitive list, but they do mention some examples
of sponsors in this video. Wow, that's a... (laughs) Okay. Name a company or a
thing that's ever existed and apparently I've
been sponsored by them. It's literally still going. Look at how long the list is. - [Ken] Oh my God! (laughs) You weren't kidding! - This is all giving you a very early look at the way this works
because I truly believe that this is the correct approach. If you develop this in a vacuum, it's never going to be
ready for primetime. So with this, I'm actually
to give it a thumbs down and to help train the model because obviously this is day
one of this being turned on. Teething issues aside, there is so much that you
could do with the new Bing. The way I think about this is more of an addition to
search than replacement. Bing Search still exists
exactly the way it is now. This is an add-on to that, right? Because search actually does
work well for certain things. It just sort of falls flat
with more nuanced questions. So if I wanna just know
what time does Chili's open? Well, it can give me that
because that is a fact, it's very straightforward,
very, very simple to understand. But my question is what's
the tastiest menu item on the Chili's side? Well, I'm probably gonna
have to go and do the search, then click on some
articles, try to understand. But here, Bing could quickly summarize some of the most popular
dishes at Chili's. I really want some Chili's right now. Like I, like, I could, I could I could do like a... I could do like two, 3 for $10s. - [Joanna] I feel like since
I've started using it, I ask it to make very
minor decisions for me, like what I should eat or
how to compose an email because it saves so much time. - Okay. What's an email you need to write? - [Joanna] An email I need to write? I mean, yesterday it was just like quoting for like a videography project. - Okay. I need twice the pay and I need yellow M&Ms. A professional email, short. Joanna is very demanding
just for the record. - [Joanna] Yeah. - I am writing to inform you
that I will need to charge twice the usual rate for our next shoot on Thursday, February 16th. Additionally, I would like
to request that you provide yellow M&Ms for me at the shoot. This is not a deal-breaker, but it would make me feel
very happy and motivated. - [Joanna] My only problem with it is that I personally think the yellow M&Ms are a deal-breaker, so-
(Austin laughs) - So I'm gonna take that exact same thing, a passive aggressive email. I need yellow M&Ms,
which are not optional. Now let's see what we get. As you may recall, we agreed on a rate of $500 for the shoot,
which includes my time. However, I've learned that you have added some additional tasks and
expectations to the project. Additionally, I have a few
requirements for the shoot that are not optional. They are a private (laughs) A private dressing room with
a mirror, chair and table, a bottle of water and a snack
and a bowl of yellow M&Ms. If you cannot provide me these items, I will have to cancel the
shoot and find another client who respects my needs and preferences. That's not passive aggressive.
- Oh, that was pretty passive aggressive. (Austin laughs) - [Joanna] Can you send me that? - And the cool thing is once I've made my non-unreasonable and
extravagant demands, I can press one button
and add it to my email and then send it off, right? Like this is a game-changer. You can also do more fun things. So give me a quiz on the best competitive
Pokemon of all time. All right, first question. Which of these Pokemon
has the ability Protean, which changes ability based
on the type of attack it uses? That is Greninja. It's number A or letter A. I think you're getting the idea here that you can use natural language to speak with something that feels like there's actual intelligence, right? Like AI has been a
buzzword for a long time and everyone's gonna be
very happy to tell you why their AI is better. But when you try this,
you kind of understand that while ChatGPT felt like
it was a big first step, the ability for not only it to be trained on a much more up-to-date model but also having the ability
to pull from the web, pull from traditional Bing
makes a big difference. Let's just pretend for a moment that I'm looking to drop a
fire comment on a video, right? So I'm gonna actually ask Bing using the Compose tab
in Edge, although again, you can do this with Bing
but the nice thing about Edge is they will actually
automatically drop it in. I can give it a prompt, but then I can also refine that prompt so I can give it the tone. So I'm gonna say it is going to be funny and the format should be a paragraph and the length should be short, right? So I generate the draft. You give it a moment. Ken, you are so wrong
about the Galaxy S23. The Pixel is just better in every way. The Pixels has a better camera, better battery, better screen, better software, and a better price. The Galaxy S23 is just a
rip-off of the iPhone 15, which is also inferior
to the Pixel. (laughs) The Galaxy S23 is so slow, so buggy, so ugly, and it's so expensive. You're just a Samsung fanboy
who can't accept the truth. The Pixel is the king of smartphones, and you are just a clown. Laughing, crying emojis. Wonderful.
- Is that really what it says? - [Austin] I literally
read that word for word. - [Ken] Whoa, that's
a real YouTube comment. - It's really good, right?
- Jesus! It is just as hurtful. - This legitimately is an
actually real reason for me to want to switch to Edge because having the ability to not only ask very complicated questions
right in my sidebar, but also to get the context
from the webpages I'm on. Microsoft have a lead here, right? Like this is, if I'm being frank, probably the first real
reason to use Bing, ever? I mean, it's maybe a little harsh, but like this is a major
differentiating factor. And the fact that this is so good to the point where I'm like, oh, I'm clearly gonna start using Bing. 'Cause yeah, Google might be
slightly better in search, maybe, maybe not. It's mostly out of sort of
just sheer habit for me. But the idea that I can
get that much richer level of information and paired with the fact that if I'm using Edge, I
can then generate that stuff and have it easily seamlessly go into any of the webpages
I'm on or whatever, I don't have to copy paste
in and out and stuff. Like it's a really compelling value. AI, I fully understand, is gonna be one of those
eye rolls like, ah, AI this, AI that, we've heard so many things about like how everything
is infused with AI. There's a level of truth to that, but to me, this feels like a major moment where things have taken
a huge step forward. Microsoft, I feel like today
have fired the first real shot in the AI war, but you better believe it's not gonna be the last
version of this battle. And I think if it goes well,
which I think it probably will, it's gonna be a win-win
for everybody, right? Like I think we are the ones
who are going to be benefiting from this tech propagating
all over the place. Like it being included in
Bing version one, great. Imagine this is built into Windows. Imagine this is built into
get rid of the stupid Siri or Google Assistant or whatever. Imagine you have an
actually smart assistant for some of this stuff, right? Like I just think that this
year is going to be wild and we've just seen the first
real salvo in the AI war. Actually, no. The first real salvo will be in like 2045 when they take over. But for now, let's enjoy it! Let's live it up!