A surprising amount of engineering is just
avoiding conflicts. I’m not talking about arguments in the office,
I mean conflicts when two or more things need to be in the same place. There are a lot of challenges in getting facilities
over, under, around, or between each other, and there’s a specific structure, ubiquitous
in the constructed environment, that’s sole purpose is to deal with the conflict between
roadways and streams, canals, and ditches. Hey I’m Grady and this is Practical Engineering. On today’s episode, we’re talking about
culverts. This video is sponsored by NordVPN. More on that later. Culverts are one of those things that seem
so obvious that you never take the time to even consider them. They’re also so common that they practically
blend into the background. But, without them, life in this world would
be quite a bit more complicated. Let me explain what I mean. Imagine you’re designing a brand new roadway
to connect point A to point B. It would be nice if the landscape between these points
was perfectly flat, with no obstructions or topographic relief. But, that’s rarely true. More likely, on the way, you’ll encounter
hills and valleys, structures and streams, and you’ll have to decide how to deal with
each one. Your road can go around some obstacles, but
for the most part you’ll have to work with what you’ve got. A roadway has to have gentle curves both horizontally
and vertically, so you might have to take soil or rock from the high spots and build
up the low spots along the way, also called cut and fill. But you’ve got to be careful about filling
in low spots, because that’s where water flows. Sometimes it’s obvious like rivers or perennial
streams, but lots of watercourses are ephemeral, meaning they only flow when it rains. If you fill across any low area in the natural
landscape, you run the risk of creating an impoundment. If water can’t get through your embankment,
it’s going to flow over the top. Not only can this lead to damage of the roadway,
it can be extremely dangerous to motorists and other vehicles. One obvious solution to this obvious problem
is a bridge: the classic way to drive a vehicle over a body of water. But, bridges are expensive. You have to hire a structural engineer, install
supports, girders, and road decks. It’s just not feasible for most small creeks
and ditches. So instead we do fill the low spots in, but
we include a pipe so the water can get through. That pipe is called a culvert, and there’s
actually quite a bit of engineering behind this innocuous bit of infrastructure. I know what you’re thinking: “Just a pipe
under a road? How complicated could it be?” Well, allow me to introduce you to the U.S.
Federal Highway Administration’s Hydraulic Design of Highway Culverts, third edition. Yes you’re seeing that right - 323 pages
of wonderful guidelines on how to get water to flow under a road. But worry not, because I have taken my favorite
parts of this manual and built a demonstration so you can appreciate the modern marvel that
is the highway culvert as much as any red-blooded civil engineer. A culvert really only has two jobs: it has
to be able to hold up the weight of the traffic passing over without collapsing, and it has
to be able to let enough water pass through without overtopping the roadway. Both jobs are pretty complicated, but it’s
the second one I want to talk about in this video. And it turns out that figuring out how much
water can pass through a culvert before the roadway overtops is a pretty complicated question. In fact, there are eight factors that can
influence the hydraulics of a culvert: (1) Headwater, or the depth of flow upstream of
the culvert, (2) The cross-sectional area of the culvert barrel, (3) the cross-sectional
shape of the culvert barrel, (4) the configuration of the culvert inlet, (5) the roughness of
the culvert barrel, (6) the length of the culvert, (7) the slope of the culvert, and
(8) the tailwater, or depth of flow downstream. We don’t have time to demonstrate how all
these parameters affect the culvert flow, but the Federal Highway Administration actually
has a pretty comprehensive video on YouTube (with a much nicer flume than mine) if you
want to see more. One thing I do want to show is the two primary
flow regimes for culverts which are outlet control and inlet control. And these are pretty much exactly what they
sound like. Outlet control happens when water can flow
into the culvert faster than it can flow out. That means flow is limited by either the roughness
and friction in the culvert barrel or the tailwater depth at the outlet. It’s kind of hard to see the movement of
water here, so I’m blowing some bubbles. Notice how the culvert barrel is flowing full. The entire area of the barrel is being taken
advantage of for flow. In outlet control flow, conditions downstream
of the culvert can affect the flow rate. For example, if a tree falls across a ditch
downstream, that can back up water reducing flow through the culvert and causing the roadway
to overtop. Inlet control happens when the culvert inlet
is constricting the flow more than any of those other factors. Everything that affects the amount of water
passing below the road is happening at the inlet. That means changing the roughness of the inside
of the barrel or anything downstream won’t change how much flow makes it through. It’s easy to show this in my model because
you can see inside the culvert barrel. You can tell that the flow depth in the culvert
is shallow and the full flow area of the barrel is not being taken advantage of. There are a wide variety of configurations
that the inlet to a culvert can have. If you pay attention, you’ll see all kinds
of culvert inlets. Some common types include projecting, where
the pipe protrudes from the embankment, mitered where the pipe is cut flush to the embankment,
and headwall where the culvert begins at a vertical concrete wall, sometimes accompanied
by concrete wing walls to further direct flow into the barrel. Unsurprisingly, each of the multitude of different
inlet configurations has a different effect on the culvert hydraulics. In my demo, I can do a test of two of these
inlet configurations to show the difference. First I’m testing the projecting inlet. This is one of the least efficient configurations
because there’s nothing to help train the flow into the culvert. You can see that the headwater elevation is
quite high, even close to overtopping the headwall in my flume. And, even with all that pressure upstream,
there’s not that much water coming through the culvert. It’s only flowing about half full. I’ll mark the water level with googly eyes. Next I reconfigured the demo to make the culvert
flush with the headwall. And I also rounded over the inside edge of
the pipe, giving the flow a smoother entrance. I didn’t change how much flow the pump is
creating, but you can see that the headwater is much, much lower. That means the inlet is more efficient, because
it takes less driving headwater to get the same amount of flow through the barrel. In fact, as I cranked up the flowrate higher
and higher, I realized that - even with as much headwater as I could create - this configuration
was still acting as an outlet-controlled culvert. The smooth and flush inlet was allowing as
much flow as possible through. Of course, there are really elaborate culvert
inlets that can be extremely efficient, but like all infrastructure, culvert design is
an exercise in balancing cost with other factors. You can spend a lot of money on a fancy culvert
inlet that has perfectly smooth edges to guide the water gently into the barrel, or you could
just bump up to the next pipe size. Calculating flow through a culvert can be
quite complicated, because culverts can transition between inlet and outlet control depending
on flow rate. And, even within these two major flow regimes
of inlet and outlet control, there are a whole host of subregimes - each of which has its
own hydraulic equations. Of course we have software now, but back in
the 1960s and 70s the Federal Highway Administration came up with a whole group of these cool nomographs
to simplify the hydraulic design of culverts. The way this works is you first find the right
chart for your situation [7A]. This one is a culvert with a submerged outlet
flowing full. Each one is a little different, but in this
one you draw a line connecting the culvert length to its diameter. Then draw a line connecting the headwater
depth to the intersection of your other line with the turning line. Extend this line to the discharge scale to
find out the flow rate passing through the culvert. I love little tricks like this that boil down
all that hydraulic complexity into a quick calculation you can do with a straightedge
in less than a minute. Next time you’re driving or walking along
a street keep an eye out for culverts. And, if it’s raining, take a look at the
flow. See if you can identify whether the culvert
is outlet or inlet controlled, and be thankful that we have this ordinary, but remarkable,
bit of infrastructure to let you safely walk or drive right over. A lot of us are working from home these days,
and if you’re like me, your job requires you to connect to the company network through
a VPN. The IT department doesn’t trust that I’ve
set a secure password on my home router, that I’ve updated the firmware on my printer,
or that I’m aware of, let alone have fixed, any number of other vulnerabilities on my
personal network. And honestly, if the IT department doesn’t
trust me, I don’t trust me either. That’s why I use NordVPN. These days most major websites are already
encrypting traffic, and many smartphones do the same. But, there are people and organizations constantly
working to find new vulnerabilities that take advantage of people online. NordVPN encrypts and tunnels my web traffic,
making it much harder for anyone who would have or could have been a part of that chain
from seeing my information. I don’t have to worry if I’m on a secure
network, and I don’t have to trust my ISP to be a good steward of my data. I just click connect and it’s done. It works on all my devices and there’s no
limit on bandwidth. I lock the doors to my house when I’m away,
and I turn on NordVPN when I’m using my computer. Not because I think it’s likely someone
is going to take advantage of me, but because it takes no effort at all to do so and and
it reduces my vulnerability if they ever tried. If that philosophy makes sense to you, they’re
offering a awesome discount. Go to https://NordVPN.com/practicalengineering
or use code PRACTICALENGINEERING to get 70% off a 3 year plan plus 1 additional month
free. That’s NordVPN.com/practicalengineering
or just click the link in the description. Thank you for watching and let me know what
you think!