- Inside this box is a cheaper and better version of the Steam Deck,
or at least that's the pitch. Now, it is a good pitch. $300 running SteamOS, AMD processor, I mean, what's not to like? Well,
(needle scratching) maybe a couple of things. This is the Ayaneo Next Lite. Now, this got announced
a couple months ago, and as soon as I saw it, I was like, "Oh my God, I gotta get my hands on
one of these things," because it is a really,
really cool device. Now, it's not running SteamOS exactly. Instead, it is running
the open source version, which is Holo OS,
(bell dinging) which is largely the same, but this is one of the
first non-Steam Deck devices to actually ship with
a version of SteamOS. Now, since this is
shipped, they've changed their story just a little bit. It no longer ships with
Holo OS pre-installed. Instead, it runs Windows 11, which is nice to have, but if you want to install SteamOS, you can download it from
their site, and supposedly, it is fully supported, drivers, all that kind of stuff, which I will definitely be doing. The other thing that's changed
since they announced this is the price. So, you remember that
$300, very, very compelling value proposition? Well, they sold them at $300, 100 of them, and then they upped the price to 350 for everyone else, but considering that
they have not been able to keep this in stock over
the last couple of weeks, as it's actually gone on sale, I'm very curious to try this, because even at $350,
that is still cheaper than all but the absolute
most basic version of the Steam Deck, which only comes with 64 gigs of storage. with 512 of this, this is
actually like a usable kit right out of the box. I'm very excited, but is
this even worth considering compared to a Steam Deck, or
something like an ROG Ally, which is now being discounted
as low as 400 bucks? Well, it's only one way to find out. (knife clicking)
(screen whooshing) (Austin chuckling) "Real gamers know gamers." Yeah. (quirky music) Oh, (duck quacking), son. That is pastel blue. Ooh! Okay, I was highly unsure about the color.  So, this comes in white,
which actually has the neat, like, orange sort of highlights, black, as well as this pastel blue. Oh my god, that is, mm. (lips smacking)
(soft music) That looks so good. Now, I'll say that while the Steam Deck is a very nice piece of hardware, I've always thought it's too wide. Like, it's just too physically big. Not only in your hands, I just think it's okay, but just the fact that
this thing will take up like, half a backpack, at least with the Ayaneo, it
is a little bit more compact. It doesn't have quite the
same sort of sculpted grips, but the weight feels okay enough that I think this would
be okay for a while. (screen whooshing)
So, when it comes to running Windows on the
Ayaneo, I have some thoughts. Um, let's talk about specs first, because when you're
talking about 300, $350, you expect some sacrifices
in the spec department. That is absolutely what we see here. So, first and foremost is the display. It's fine, it's a 1280 by 800 7 inch panel, pretty much the exact
same as what you would get with the original Steam Deck, which means that it is acceptable. The resolution's fine. It doesn't look great in Windows, just because even though
you've scaled a little bit, everything's a little bit blurry, but for games, totally fine. I think the spot that's a little bit more of a compromise (chuckles)
are with the specs. So, on the surface, this is
very similar to a Steam Deck. They both got an AMD Ryzen-based CPU, so, this is using the Ryzen 5 4500U, which is technically slightly
better than the Steam Deck, because it's a six-core
processor instead of four, and they're both based on
the same Zen 2 architecture, but then it starts to
get a little bit tricky. Now, they did do a good
job of outfitting this with 16 gigs of ram,
I'll give Ayaneo that. They could skimped out,
they did not there, so, it does match the Steam Deck. However, when you go to the graphics, well, these are
significantly older graphics. So, because this is the 4500U, this is before the RDNA
2 graphics showed up. So, these are still the Vega graphics, which were fine for a
integrated laptop GPU from 2019, but when it comes to
playing games on this, I suspect we will have some issues, especially when it comes to AAA titles. But before we go too
deep, let's actually go and do some gaming on
Windows right outta the box, and see how well this holds up, and then we can decide is
SteamOS the answer that we need? Or should we have just bought
a Steam Deck, or an ROG Ally, or Legion Go, or an MSI Claw? (text whooshing)
(soft music) or Nintendo Switch OLED? Or Game Boy Advance SP? (screen whooshing)
So, we're gonna try a couple of games here. We're gonna start out with "Cyberpunk." "Cyberpunk" is a game
that runs acceptably well, I would say, on a Steam Deck. It's not a great
experience, but it's fine. Something else I'll say about this running Windows specifically,
it's kind of slow. Now, part of it is because it is running that Ryzen processor, which is significantly
behind which you would get in something like the ROG Ally. And because it's running Windows, it's not as smooth an
experience as it is on SteamOS, which feels very well-optimized. What's going on right now? I couldn't tell you, but
look, I'm gonna be real. This is not gonna be a good experience. There's zero shot it's
gonna be a good experience. I'm gonna give it the best possible shot. I'm gonna run it at potato quality. Oh snap, wait, is that actually 39 FPS? (soft dance music)
(table thumping) Huh? Wait, that's not awful. 46 average FPS with a minimum of 36. That's actually not terrible. Let's try "Forza," because we actually, we might be onto something here. I was expected this to,
like, gimme like, 15 FPS. Now, "Forza" is a game that
is pretty well-optimized. I think we will be able to get a pretty solid lock 30 FPS in the game. I don't actually think
it'll be that difficult. That being said, we're definitely burning through this battery. Right now, we're already down to 79%. We were at 95, 15 minutes ago? (soft dance music) If even, like, we're almost doing, like, a percent of the battery per minute, which I guess is not way
worse than Steam Deck, but Steam Deck usually
gives you even, like, the original, like, base Steam Deck, it will still usually give
you close to, like, two, two and a half hours in most games. This is looking like
maybe an hour and a half, if I had to take a guess? Damn, dude, this thing is cranking. CPU, GPU, RAM, all 100%. I'm changing my settings,
but okay, sure, why not? Okay, so, everything's set to low, so, let's do a quick benchmark. (table thumping) Did it crash? I was trying to say something nice. I regret my decisions. And it's actually gonna
run the benchmark now. That's weird I had to restart the game for the benchmark to load. Okay, whatever. Yeah, we're at 40 FPS,
so, it's not brilliant. I would like to see a little bit higher, and the image quality is poor. We're throwing everything we can at this to get the best experience possible, and it is topping out in
the 40 to 45 FPS range, but where this becomes far
more interesting, I hope, is when you load up a copy
of SteamOS, AKA HoloISO, and get that sweet, sweet Steam Deck on a budget experience, or so I hope. Let's actually do that now, and (chuckles) get rid of
Windows, 'cause this is not great. (screen whooshing)
So, there's been a couple of weeks since we unboxed
the Ayaneo Next Lite, and boy, oh boy, do I have
some lovely updates for you. So, while Windows is fine, you know, the main reason why I
really wanted to try this is not only the price, but also the fact that you
can run Steam OS, asterisk. Well, so, when you go to the Ayaneo site, and you go to their support page, you'll see that there's like,
BIOS, and drivers and stuff, and then you'll see the
HoloISO image and tutorial. Lovely. What happens when we hit download? Well, it takes you to a Google Drive link, which, wait, it works now? Oh, it works now. - Oh.
- They opened up. (bright music)
(table thumping) So, for the last two and a half weeks, we've been waiting for
them to give us access to download this. Now, you can actually
grab it from the site. Now, I'm going to try to
follow these expert tutorials, and install this on my Ayaneo. I wanna see if this is
officially supported by HoloISO/SteamOS-ish. What can I actually get out of it? "No ISO or supported files found." (soft music) (Austin sighing) I will be back after trying
to remake my flash drive, and see if somehow that will work, 'cause this is a whole bunch
of not working right now. (screen whooshing)
One more time, one more time. Boot in normal mode, so, I'm gonna go through
the process again. We now have two flash drives installed, (button clicking)
one of which has our Clonezilla, which is what we're going
to use to copy HoloISO to the internal drive. Did they tell us to do this? No, they didn't, but I'm not
sure how else would do it, so, we're gonna give it a shot. There's no way to mount the subdirectory.
(buttons clicking) Well, I'll do it anyway. No, I can't, it cannot do it. I can just tell it, I don't
care how it's not mountable, just do it anyway. I will say, I am not
on the tutorial at all. None of this is, it's
like, "Hey, hit the button, and go for it, my dude." (soft music) Things are happening now. So, we are currently cloning,
theoretically, HoloISO from our flash drive onto our SSD. I think I'm copying the
right thing, maybe, possibly. The instructions are about 50% of what you actually need to do here, so, there's a lot of filling
in the blanks where... (chuckles nervously) Almost there. That is 69% completion. Hmm, it sees 500 gigabyte SSD,
and it has 258 gigs in use. That's not right. It says it is gonna take
two and a half hours to confirm that the disk has
been written to correctly. Three minutes to install, two
and a half hours to verify. Okay. Whatever just happened, I'm
pretty sure it's not right. I'll see you tomorrow, when
we inevitably fall deeper into the rabbit hole of
this lovely, lovely device. (screen whooshing)
It is 4:58, my friends, and I think we've done it. So, after some fiddling,
rebuilding the USB, 'cause at one point, we
accidentally overwrote an image onto our flash
drive instead of the SSD, I think we've installed something. So, let's find out, shall we? Ooh, booting SteamOS! Oh, snap! Yo, let's go! (Austin cackling)
(dramatic music) Um... You saw that, right? You saw when the logo was
there, and it said, "SteamOS?" See you tomorrow. (Austin wailing) (screen whooshing)
So, I've been informed that it is time to try again. Do you wanna gimme any context at all? - No.
- Did you do anything to it? (soft music) - [Alex] You'll find out. - Oh, hey! Something's happening. It's in Chinese, but
something's happening. Guess I'll let it verify
for a little while, and we'll see if I've
finally hit the jackpot, or whether I'm gonna drop
this thing on the floor, put it back where it belongs. As you can see, SteamOS is up and running. However, that's about it. So, there are immediately
some problems I see here. First and foremost,
these buttons on the side don't do anything, so, I can't actually open
my little, like, Steam menu. I can open up the left menu, like, open settings and that kind of stuff. It does say that there's a software update. I don't trust that. Otherwise, though, this
does largely seem to work. The brightness works, audio, everything, like, at first
glance seems to be fine, but, well, there's a little problem, and that it is stuck, I think,
at like, 100% max speed. Listen to the fan. (fan blowing) It's just doing that, and also blowing out very
hot air all the time. It's as if it's gaming, except it's not. So, I have some thoughts,
as I'm sure you could tell by the hours and hours we've spent to try to get to this point, but let's give this a
fair try, and play a game, is what I would say if I had enough space to install anything besides "CS2," because somehow, during the
very lengthy install process, we have only formatted
this as 97 gigabytes. Why is it 97 gigabytes? (duck quacking) If I know, but honestly, at this point, I
just wanna see it do a thing. Now, as you might have imagined, "CS2," not exactly a great game
to play on a Steam Deck or a portable device, so, I'm gonna be using
a mouse and keyboard. (Matt chuckling) Look... (Austin babbling) So, for context, for only
$50 more than this Ayaneo, I can get an actual Steam Deck. This is the LCD model, a 256 gig model, so, just keep mind, this is $400. This is what I'm comparing it to. All right, let's hop in here and, okay, that's some of the frames. Now, can I pull up? Oh boy, I'm getting 42 FPS. It looks okay, actually. Ooh, the stutters are real. Now, would I get more performance if I had spent an hour processing shaders? Probably. - [Matt] Hey, you know what you should do is turn up the TDP on that.
(gun popping) - Oh yeah, I can't do that. I'm sniping with my pistol. - [Matt] Okay. - About the only nice thing I can say is that we have an actual
game running in HoloISO on our Ayaneo. That's literally the only
nice thing I can say. - Okay, but can I ask a
big philosophical question about this?
- Please do. - If you can't get into
the Steam Deck settings, - Yeah.
- Then what is the point of the OS? Because otherwise, this
is just Big Picture mode. - Yeah, you're not wrong,
except is a lot more work, and I've somehow lost 4/5 of my SSD space, and several weeks off my life expectancy. The idea of a $300 Steam Deck competitor running actual SteamOS sounds great. I don't mind the hardware. I don't even mind a lot of the cutbacks, and the fact that it's got
16 gigs of RAM and a big SSD. That's all great, that's
really, really good stuff, but the Steam Deck exists, and while it's, yes, slightly
more expensive, not really, especially if you're really looking for something on a budget, you can find yourself a used Steam Deck, and maybe even upgrade yourself
for around the same price as we bought this new, and this one, surprise, surprise, works. Thank you very much for watching. Don't buy this Ayaneo. Ayaneo, If you're watching this video, fix HoloISO, the end. (voice echoing)
(rhythmic music) - Alex hasn't slept in weeks. - [Alex] It was the worst
handheld experience I've ever had.