- Today, I have a simple mission. What is the best deal in gaming? Starting with the PlayStation 5. Now, when you think gaming, odds are PlayStation comes
to mind really quickly. But how good is it on the scale of our patented not This Is, don't worry, there's not Matt's face underneath this, tier list to determine what the best deal in gaming truly is. So the PS5 Slim comes in at $450 for the all digital version. This kind of claims to be
the ultimate in gaming. So we're gonna start out
with Gran Turismo 7, which I'll be honest, it's
pretty much the killer app for the PS5 as far as I'm concerned. - [Alex] Killer app, you've never played God of War, you've never played Spiderman. - No, I play racing games.
- You never, ugh. - With the PS5, what
you're getting here is what I would say is the default console. The PS5 gives you a
great selection of games. You have full backwards
compatibility with PS4 games. It definitely helps that this is a console that you know you can depend
on for years down the line. Games are still being
designed specifically with the PS5 in mind and that is not gonna change for another what, four, or five years. So that's a big win. Now the price is expensive, $450 for this. It is expensive, but compared to some of the
other things on this list, it is certainly not egregious. So I gotta say, when it
comes to ranking the PS5, I don't think there's
any way I can rank it anything less than A tier,
like it's solid, dependable. If you're looking for
the best deal in gaming, while it's not the best outright bargain, it's one of the absolute
best all rounders. Now we can't talk about
the best deal in gaming without discussing the Steam Deck. Now I am a big fan of the Steam Deck and I actually wasn't originally, it kind of took a little
while for it to grow on me, but there's a lot to like here. So there are a ton of different
Steam Decks available, including everything from
a refurbished Steam Deck, which you can get for less than $300 all the way up to a brand new OLED, which would come in at
$650 on the high end. If you're looking for the
best deal in handheld gaming, the Steam Deck has a very
strong value proposition. Now I'm gonna be playing on an OLED here. The main advantages here is that it has a much better
display, bigger battery, and a lot of nice little
quality of life improvements. Out of the box, it runs
SteamOS, which is based on Linux and it is very much meant to
be like a console experience. You know, you don't need to
pull out like a touch keyboard and all that kind of stuff very often. It's very navigable with the controller. If you want, you can hop
out to the Linux mode and get the full desktop. You can plug this into
a monitor, into display. In fact, you can even load
Windows on this if you want. Don't do that. Now when it comes to performance, it is certainly not going to
blow you away with, you know, 4K graphics and everything, but I will say that the majority
of games on Steam will run fairly well on Steam Deck. But where do we rank the Steam Deck? Because it is a terrific
device in every single version. I mean, you can get the
base model and upgrade it. You can get the OLED, like even the most expensive
version of the Steam Deck is still actually a pretty decent deal just because it is such
a solid piece of hardware and it will work for at least
several years down the line. I'm actually just gonna give it an A. (techno music) Uh-oh. The next best deal in gaming is one that I actually think is low key, one of the best legitimate deals, which is the Meta Quest 2. Now this used to run for, what was it, 3 or $400 when it first came out. However, it is now
officially 199 at Best Buy and the vast majority of Quest games that have been built over
the years are designed for this headset. They're gonna look a little
bit better on the Quest 3, but that's $500 plus. This starts to look like a
very, very compelling value. When it comes to the Quest 2, this is a headset which yes, it's gonna be a little bit out of date. We gotta consider this is what like 1/20th the
price of Apple Vision. And when you look at
them side by side, yeah, the passthrough and a
bunch of individual items on this aren't as nice, but once you actually get into a game, something that's designed
for it like Superhot, it feels terrific. The audio is good, the
screen is a little blurry, but it's not too bad. Look, there's only one
way to play this game and it's to punch him in the nuts. (glass breaking) Ah, he punched me in the face. Now I'm gonna lean over
this guy right here, right? Punch him in the nuts
before he can get me. Punch him in the nuts and in the face. If you wanna get into a VR headset, $200 is such a killer deal. One of the only downsides here is going to be long-term support. But at $200, if you've ever
been like curious about VR, it is a terrific way to get into it and you can always decide
maybe down the line, do you actually wanna
spend the extra money to get the Quest 3, which is really just a more refined version of this headset. I'm gonna put the Quest 2 in B Tier. It's good if you want to
get that VR experience, but if you got $200 in one
gaming device of your life,  this is probably not going to be it. Keeping with the theme of unusual choices, this is the Analogue Pocket. The Analogue Pocket is unlike
every other item in this video because it only plays old
school portable games. So we're talking Game Boy, Game
Boy Color, Game Boy Advance. You can get a number of other adapters to do things like Game Gear
and Atari Lynx and whatnot. You have a ton of different options and the nice thing is
this display is so sharp that especially when you're
playing original Game Boy games, you can actually have
like the original display, the LCD stuff like emulated
in the actual hardware because the screen is so high resolution. But! There's a big but. The Analogue Pocket has two
major things going against it. First of all, it is the availability. So, the Analogue Pocket is
not just something you can go on the Analogue site and buy. If they were in stock and you could get it for the
actual $220 price, it's decent. The fact that you almost
always can't means that the Pocket, I'm sad
to say, this one's tough. I'm gonna say Analogue Pocket gets a D. Next up, we have the ROG Ally. Now this is going to encompass
a couple of other options including something like the Legion Go, but this is a Windows based
handheld, essentially a small PC that is designed to go head
to head with the Steam Deck. Now I'll tell you that
the ROG Ally was the first and is currently the
best priced of the lot. I'll tell you straight up, the standard Z1 version of the Ally at $400 is an incredibly compelling value when you put it side by
side with a Steam Deck. So the hardware is quite nice,
it's got a very nice display, a little on the bigger side, much like all these handhelds are, the fan is a little bit loud and there are some issues with this cooking, like microSD cards. There's really not a lot that is wrong, I would say with the ROG Ally. And there are some
issues with this cooking, like microSD cards. There
is Armory Crate built in. So you can see here that
with just a tap of a button, I can launch a little
interface that ASUS have built. But here's the bigger issue with the Ally, and this goes true with all
the other Windows handhelds, they're running Windows. When you compare this to the Steam Deck, Steam OS is actually designed to be used with a controller. As soon as you land in the desktop mode, what you're gonna find is a
very unfriendly experience. Yes, you can kind of just
forget that Windows is there mostly, but you can't
ever get away from it, which definitely dings it in my book. It's a good deal. But is it the best deal in gaming? No. I'm gonna give the Ally
pretty much entirely based on the fact is that the Z1 is $400. I'm gonna give it a C tier. Now when you see this
gaming laptop on the table, you'll probably go, "Oh, Austin, you're finally talking about a PC. I'm so happy." Well, I am talking about a PC. Running Chrome OS. Yeah, you heard me right, my friends. This is a Lenovo IdeaPad
 gaming Chromebook. Now if you hear the words gaming and Chromebook and go, "Huh?" Well, you're not alone. These were originally designed to run with Google Stadia in mind. So if you're familiar with Chrome OS, you'll know that they're
nice little systems that are easy, you
know, very lightweight, simple sort of things and you
can run some games on them. In fact, some Chromebooks
can actually run Steam, but they're always limited by
their sort of wimpy hardware. Gaming Chromebooks like
this actually utilize a high refresh rate display. So this is 1440P at 120 hertz. And when you pair that with a
service such as GeForce Now, which is what I'm using
and the ultimate tier, I can actually get 120 frames
per second streaming to it. If you are interested in
doing streaming gaming, I think that this Chromebook
actually is as good as it gets. The downside though is if you have a poor internet connection, it is not a great experience. I will tell you that if you have a sort of weak, wimpy internet connection, it's gonna be an F- tier. I'm gonna hop into GeForce Now. I'm gonna give you the best possible shot. I've got the high end ultimate tier. I've got an RTX 4080 in the cloud, and as you'll see the performance should be really quite nice. I usually don't like cloud
gaming, I'll be honest with you. I find that the inconsistency
even on a good connection and the latency can
often be really annoying. That being said, as
you can see right here, I'm getting some stutters and that is going to be dependent on not only the server you're on, but also just your internet connection. If someone down the hall fires up Netflix, your game may start lagging,
which is always going to be a pretty significant issue when it comes to cloud gaming. Wow, that was really not good. While this used to cost like $600, you can buy this brand
new for a little over 400 and if you're like me,
you wanna buy it used. This thing cost me like 200 bucks, but you still gotta pay for
your games, your online cloud, streaming service, all that kind of stuff. As you can see, sometimes
it runs terribly. So, as much as I think for some people, this is
one of the better items, but when you look at what it's up against, I think we gotta put the Chromebook in F. It's not this worst except
that it is, but, you know, it's a Chromebook! When I think about value and gaming in one sentence, the first words that come to
mind, Nintendo Switch Lite. Now, you're probably tired
of hearing me talk about how much I like this stupid Switch Lite, but here's the thing, this has been $200 for a number of years now and it is still purely from
a value to game perspective. One of the best consoles you can buy. The Switch has at this
point years and years and years of terrific games. Now obviously, it's starting
to show its age a little bit. We hop into something like Fortnite, you'll see that the experience
isn't particularly amazing. Boy, this screen's real
small for Fortnite. Boy, that frame rate
is, there's some frames. - [Alex] There
are exactly some frames. - How many frames do you need? (Alex laughs) - [Joanna] Less than 30. - Less than 30. Who wants 30 frame? Oh, that's too many frames. Oh, now while the Switch Lite
might be cheap and small, it still plays the exact same games and the exact same performance
as its bigger brothers. The standard Switch and the Switch OLED. While, yes, the Switch 2
is right on the horizon. You're not gonna feel too bad about spending 200 bucks on a Switch Lite. Whereas if you spend 300, $350
on a Switch OLED right now, you know that Switch 2 is
coming out in like 10 minutes and is gonna completely
disregard your existing Switch. Even if there's backwards
compatibility and stuff. Like, you should not buy a
regular Switch in 2024, right? Like the new one's coming. Now when it comes to
downsides to the Switch Lite, there are a couple. The screen is decidedly average. It's a very sort of
okay looking 720P panel and the fact that while the Switch Lite is a beautiful little piece of hardware, you do not have any
capability of docking it. This is one that's very subjective. There's probably people
out there who look at this and go, "Oh, I can't dock it. It's the weak version of the Switch." F Tier easy. And then there's me like a year ago, which would've been like, "Oh, S tier. It's the best deal in gaming." I made lots of videos on the
Switch Lite over the years. I think though I have
moderated my stance somewhat. I feel pretty confident giving
the Switch Lite a B tier. I think $200 for the Quest
and the Switch, you'll be set. You'll have all the gaming you need except all the other things. So when I say that I'm
talking about an iPhone 15 Pro as the best deal in gaming, you rightfully are gonna point out that belongs in F tier
along with the Chromebook. But hear me out for one second. This is one of, if not
the most expensive items, in the video. So the iPhone 15 starts at $1,000 plus you're gonna probably want more storage, could be another a hundred, $200, and you're almost definitely
going to want a controller. So this is a Backbone which
is another hundred, right? So you look at all this and you go like, "Oh, what's going on here?" The reason why I point
out the iPhone 15 Pro is that this phone is the
first time in my opinion, that we've had a smartphone that can actually play
some proper AAA games. This is Death Stranding running natively on the iPhone 15 Pro. Unlike some of the
other items on this list that, you know, the Switch
is only a game console, so you have to judge it based on that. You're spending that money
also on like the camera and the screen to watch videos and stuff, which I think you could
maybe make the argument that you need a smartphone anyway. I'll tell you what though, this is like a really solid experience. Now I've not really played
much of Death Stranding, but from what I have done, while it's a little bit
on the low res side, it looks phenomenal for the fact that it's
running on an iPhone. Plus, you have a lot of other games besides just the AAA stuff. And let's be honest, mobile
gaming is the most popular and certainly the most
profitable form of gaming period. I mean, iPhones and Androids
have, oh, I don't know, 400,000 exclusives that are not on any other
console on this list. If I can take the device
that lives in my pocket 24/7 and also do pretty solid gaming on it, it's a very, very strong sales pitch. The downsides though are there. So not only do you have to spend a huge amount of money on an iPhone 15 Pro if you want to have the latest
and greatest performance. The problem is, is that
once you start getting away from these AAA games, which are very limited
on the iPhone but exist, which you'll find is that
free to play games have a bad reputation for a reason. I think as much as I like
smartphones and the iPhone 15, kinda lumping 'em together, I gotta put the iPhone in D tier. - [Joanna] Where
would you rank the NOOK? - The Barnes and Noble NOOK tablet? - [Joanna] Yes. - Oh, well, that's an
N tier...for not good. It is the moment that
you've all been waiting for, my friends. Time to talk PC. Now PC is a little bit more
of a nuanced conversation than every other item on this list. If you encompass a PC gaming experience down to a few criteria. You would look at
laptops, low end desktops, you would look at high end
desktops, crazy extreme stuff. PC is almost without fail, the best place to play if
you've got the budget for it. We're actually gonna split
this up into two categories. We're gonna start out with the low end PC. So this is a brand new $475 PC that I built in a video not too long ago, the cheapest new PC I could
build at Micro Center. But we're gonna compare this
with something like the PS5 and the Series X, which is
roughly equivalent on price, although I'll tell you not
equivalent in performance. I would say, the low end PC is
probably the 4 to $600 range. Obviously, it's really hard to determine 'cause I mean, you can
technically build a $200 PC if you want, if you get
like a used Dell Optiplex for like 30 bucks. So, I actually can hit close to 120 FPS on this even though it is
obviously a very low end system. But obviously, the more money you spend, the sort of more capability
that you will get. - [Ken] I think for
me, the only real downside with PC is that it has League of Legends. (Austin laughs) - Well, you know what we can do? We can just delete League. I think it'd be fine. Downsides to PC would be the complication. You know, you've got Windows updates, you've got driver updates, you've got occasional instability based on the many components
that you may or not have. PCs, I don't wanna say need
to be upgraded more often 'cause that's not really true. But like this PC I will guarantee
you seven years from now will struggle to play
some more modern titles. Like that's just the way it works. PC tend to evolve a little bit quicker. So if we're gonna split this up, first of all into low end PC,
there are a lot of advantages, but I'm actually not gonna
give it a super high rating because when you go for
a really low end PC, you're gonna be giving up
pretty significant performance, meaning that I'm gonna
give the low end PC a B. It's fine, it's very usable. You can certainly get a lot out of it. But the real story here
is the high-end PC. Now a high-end PC, I'm gonna categorize as something at $750 or more. At this kind of price point, you're getting proper dedicated graphics that are going to match
or exceed a console. And importantly, once you
get to a more high-end PC, while you'll still wanna upgrade, that is going to last
you four or five years. If you've noticed there's this
conspicuous lack of an S tier and the PC feels like a very obvious spot 'cause there's so much going for it, which is why I'm going to put PC in A tier because there was one more. The real GOAT. When it comes to the best deal in gaming, not the best experience. If it was just the best
experience in gaming, it would be the high-end PC. It is none other than... (drum rolls) The Xbox Series S. - [Ken] Get out of here. (audience booing) - Hear me out. When you hear why. - [Ken] Is it because it's S? So you put it in S tier? - No. Let me give you the pitch. Ah! On why the Series S is great. Are people are, what the hell? The price of the Series S, MSRP is 299. Now could we just take a minute and just think about that as a concept? A brand new current
generation game console able to play pretty much every game that it's bigger brothers
can for $250 or even less. Now, are there some
downsides to the Series S? You better believe it. First of all, no disc drive, but honestly, most people, are you really still
buying physical Xbox games? But if you're looking for
the best deal in gaming, I'm happy to trade this compatibility for hundreds of dollars in savings. Now the other downside to
the Series S is just the fact that it is a little bit underpowered compared to the Series X. So this is going to generally
play games somewhere between 1080P and 1440P, whereas the Series X typically
aims for 4K or thereabouts. I would argue that because that is
really the only downside to the system when it
comes to the graphics, it's totally fine. The fact that the Series
S can play the same games and you're pretty much
guaranteed that this will work with all next gen titles and current gen titles for quite a while. That's legitimately great. On top of that, there's Game Pass. If there's ever been a console to sign up for a Game Pass subscription,
it's the Series S. Or you can do what a lot of
people do, which is just, you know, freaking play Fortnite and free to play games on this thing and never buy anything on it. Like there's so many
reasons why this Series S is such a good deal when you consider this is just a little bit more
expensive than a Switch Lite. The concept of this video is what is the best deal in gaming? I don't care about any of the other stuff. What is the best deal in gaming? And I think it's easy to say that the Xbox Series S is the best deal in gaming in 2024. Thank you very much for watching. Let me know what you think in the comments below of this tier list. Tell me why I'm wrong about all of them. I don't know. All I know is this, Series S, S Tier. (bright music) Well, until you die. At which point, you need that 120 FPS. (Austin laughs) (bright music)