Welcome back to mCoding!  
Hope you're having a great day. attrs is a library to help you 
write Python classes in a simpler, less error-prone, 
and less boilerplate way. It offers similar functionality 
to the built-in dataclasses library. And in fact, dataclasses 
were originally based on attrs. Very commonly, 
when I write a class, I need to define an __init__, __eq__, 
a __repr__, maybe a __hash__, __lt__ etc., And most often, all those functions 
are complete boilerplate. Who can even remember all of them? And if I do, yeah, maybe 
procrastinate on actually filling them in. __init__ means self.something= something, 
for each argument, __eq__ means check 
self.something= other.something, and so on. If I want to add 
or remove an attribute, I now have to add or remove 
it in all of these places, which is both a huge waste of my time
 as well as a very likely place where I make a 
typo and break everything. Enter attrs and other 
dataclass like solutions. Instead of writing all that, 
they write it for you. Delete all that flaky, error-prone code. 
Here's how you write it with attrs. Let's watch that again because 
it was so satisfying. Nice! You can also customize the generated
 code using parameters to define or by using these field 
objects on individual attributes. This is implemented by 
posting wrong code to Stack Overflow and waiting for someone 
else to write it for you. Just kidding, 
it's this `@define` decorator. It could also be done 
with a metaclass. But attrs and dataclasses both take 
the decorator approach instead. At this point, you may feel your 
knee jerking upwards, telling you that this is 
too much forbidden magic. But fear not. After the decorator runs, the result is the
 plain old class that you would have written yourself. We can even inspect, say, the __init__ method 
to see the source code it generated: self.something = something, and so on. Exactly the boilerplate we wanted to avoid. No magic is happening when 
you use the class. The plain old boring repetitive 
code is still there. And the resulting class is just as 
efficient as if you had handwritten it. It's just that you didn't have 
to handwrite it. While the logic of 
this decorator is complex, ultimately all it's doing is 
using your annotations and whatever parameters to write 
the source code of each function in the class. And then it executes that code to create the 
function objects and stick them onto the class. But pretty much everything I've said applies 
just as well to dataclasses as it does to attrs. So why do I prefer attrs? To be clear, dataclasses 
are still great. And once they came out when 
they were first released, I started using attrs less and less just due to their 
convenience of being built into Python. But in the past year, the tables 
have really started to turn. And I'm choosing attrs over data 
classes more and more. The first reason is slots, 
which is kind of a superficial thing because both attrs and 
dataclasses support slots. But attrs make slotted classes the default, 
and good defaults are surprisingly important. I have a whole video on slots 
if you want to check out the details. But the short version is that normal Python classes are 
basically syntactic sugar around a dictionary. And just like a dictionary, they can 
have arbitrary new keys/attributes added to them. In contrast, a slotted class has 
a fixed set of instance attributes, which makes it slightly 
more efficient, but also, this prevents a very 
common bug from making a typo. If I accidentally try to set 
`user.nmae= JAMES` instead of getting an error 
on a normal class, I would just silently create the `nmae` attribute 
on my instance, leaving the old name unchanged. There's no error. I just now 
have incorrect data in my application. Can't wait to ship it to a customer, only for 
them to tell me every name in a database is null. But on a slotted class, as soon as 
I try to set the `nmae` attribute, I get an error telling me 
I've done goofed again, telling me `nmae` isn't 
a valid attribute. While it's certainly possible that you want the ability to 
dynamically create new attributes on your class at runtime, it's far more common for classes to
 know all their attributes ahead of time. So it makes sense for slots 
to be the default. But like I said, attrs and dataclasses 
both support slots, so what's the problem?   This brings me to my second reason: 
Versioning. Dataclasses are part of the 
Python standard library, As Python develops, more and more features 
like slots are added to dataclasses. But if I want to use those features, 
I need to upgrade my version of Python, which may involve convincing a client to upgrade 
and/or drop support for an older version of Python.   That might not be acceptable. And in a world where many companies 
are still using Python 3.8, that means no slots if I'm using dataclasses since 
they aren't supported until Python 3.10. In contrast, if attrs introduces 
a new feature that I want to use,   all I need to do is bump the version of attrs 
on a per-project basis, which is super easy to do. And reasons three, four, five, and so on are all of the features 
that attrs supports that dataclasses just doesn't. In particular, attrs supports validators, converters, 
and factories that take a `self` parameter. And it allows you to set 
specific `on_setattr`  hooks per attribute. So you could, for example, make only 
one field frozen but allow the others to change. Another superficial one: attrs recognizes 
the importance of immutability and gives you a top-level `@frozen` alternative 
to define that just sets the frozen parameter to true.   These are all little things. But when 
you use a tool like this every single day, these little things really 
start to add up, which is why I find myself using 
attrs more and more in 2023. Let me know what you think! 
Do you use attrs? What about dataclasses, or do 
you prefer handwriting all your classes? Thanks for watching! 
Thank you to my patrons and donors. Slap that like button an odd number of times.
And I'll see you in the next one. Do you have a Python or C++ project 
at your company that needs a bit of love? Well, my company does consulting. So check out mcoding.io 
to see if I might be able to help.