- Has the PS5 already
killed the PlayStation 4? Now this is not going to be a
fancy video full of graphics, but it's something that I
have been thinking about a lot the last few days. It all really stems from Cyberpunk 2077. Look, you've seen the memes at this point. You know this is a game, which looks phenomenal on a high end or even a mid range gaming PC. It looks pretty decent on
something like an Xbox Series X or PS5. But you put it up on an Xbox One or PS4 and it looks like garbage town. Now, of course, recently Sony took the very bold step of straight
up removing Cyberpunk from the PlayStation Store and offering anyone who
purchased it a refund. And that even goes for the PS5 version because let's not forget
Cyberpunk while it is playable on the PS5 and the Series S and the Series X is not really optimized
for those consoles. Instead that is a version of the game which is simply running
in backwards compatibility with a couple of extra tweaks. The full PS5 and Series X
patches are coming later. And that's got me thinking previously, you wind all the way back to 2013 when the last gen consoles came out, the Xbox One and the PS4,
things were very different. We were coming off of a very long, historically a very long
console generation with PS3 as well as the Xbox 360. Those consoles were phenomenal
when they first came out. They were really ahead of the game, especially the PS3 technically and they had a lot of good
years of life in them. But toward the ends of 2011,
2012, 2013, it was very clear that those consoles were holding back the entire gaming industry, right? I mean, it was, you
could get away with it. I mean, you look at games like Crysis, which were able to scale from an Xbox and from a PS3 all the way up. But frame rates were terrible. It just was way too much to handle. GTA 5 ran on the PS3 and the 360 with 512 megs of RAM, right? I mean, that is crazy town
considering just how massive that game was. So clearly, when the PS4 and
when the Xbox One came out we were in dire need of an upgrade when it comes to the consoles,
when it comes to graphics and just pushing things forward, right? And I don't want to be unfair, the PS4 and the Xbox One
did push things forward. They had a massive improvement in memory. You went from half a gig
to eight gigs of memory. It was much faster than the PS4. That did enable a lot of the much higher resolution textures in the much larger world. And they did have decent CPUs. Although really, that was sort of one of the main drawbacks of the last generation. And when you look at how we've
had seven years of the PS4 and the Xbox One, there have been a lot of great games. A lot of games that have
finally got away from that 25, 30 FPS kind of stuff
that we used to deal with. And now they're running at a smooth 60. Not in all cases, but I
would say a decent amount of the games to this last
generation were fairly smooth. But now you look at where we
are today, at the end of 2020, these brand new consoles
have all just launched. And I have real doubts on how long the PS4 and the Xbox One really have left to be useful, right? Now, if you own a PS4 or an Xbox One, you're probably not
thrilled about the idea that you're brand new console
or maybe not brand new, but your several year old console is like immediately becoming obsolete. And I don't think it's going
to be that fast, right? I mean, just purely it's
down to the fact that PS5s and Xboxes are all constrained right now. And it's going to take
one, two, three years for that install base to be able
to build up to the point where it is easy and safe
for console developers and everyone to kind of
start moving away from the last generation of consoles. But unlike previous
generations, where when the PS4 and when the Xbox One came out there was some nice looking games, but there weren't a lot of things that completely blew your mind, right? I mean, especially when we
look back sort of in comparison with some of the other
console generation leaps, they just weren't that ambitious, right? But when you look at what
we've got with the PS5 and the Xbox Series X, it is
a different story altogether. Both of these consoles, and I'll throw
the Series S in there, even though it's slightly
sort of gimped in some ways, but both all these new consoles
are very much equivalent with the best that the PC
space has to offer, right? 8-core Zen 2 processors, right? I mean, the processors in these
chips alone on the consoles are equivalent to $200,
$250 gaming grade CPUs on the Ryzen side, right? The graphics support not only ray tracing, but it's the latest RDNA 2.0. Again, AMD doesn't even sell
an equivalent graphics card in the PC space right now, but it would be well well
well above the kind of price that you'd be talking about
for the entire console, right? The SSDs that are standard
inside the Series S, the Series X and the PS5
leagues, leagues better than what we had on the PS4
and the Xbox One, right? And all this combined means that this generation of
consoles I truly do believe is way closer to the PC
than we've pretty much seen since like the Super Nintendo
days and the N64 days when consoles really were leading the charge for the gaming space. But when you look at games like Cyberpunk, which it's it's a hard case, I don't want to single out one game. Obviously everyone's talking
about Cyberpunk right now and for a good reason. But this is a game that's
been in development for what, seven, eight years now? I mean, most of the time that the, I think actually it was
announced before the PS4 and the Xbox One came out, clearly should have been
developed with a real emphasis on these current generation consoles, right? And it does run decently
on like the PS4 Pro and the Xbox One X. But when you look at how a game like this, which was clearly designed for PC first, but should have had a real
emphasis on the consoles, it's completely fallen flat. When you look at performance
like this on the base Xbox One, which looks like it's
a Switch game, right? I mean, it just looks awful. The frame rate is terrible. I mean, it's just it's not something that I would feel
comfortable spending $60 on. Clearly Sony agrees because they removed it from
the PlayStation Store, right? I mean, we've seen a lot
of games get delayed. I mean, so many people
gave Microsoft all kinds of for delaying Halo Infinite a full year. But now that you look back at
what's happened to Cyberpunk when was last time you saw a game delayed after it was already released, right? I mean, that is crazy to me. So one of my main thoughts going into the generation as a whole,
is how long does the PS4 and the Xbox One really have, right? Because right off the bat, a
couple months in, it is clear that those consoles are holding
back this generation, right? So there are a couple of thoughts here. First of all, it does
help that the Xbox One X and the PS4 Pro exist because clearly those are a
little bit more reasonable. They're not using seven year old hardware and realistically CPUs that were not powerful
by 2006 standards, right? So that clearly holds things back. But the issue is, is that
unless I'm wildly wrong and if so please correct
me in the comments. But as far as I understand, you as a developer cannot
release an Xbox One game that only supports the Xbox One X, but drops the base console, right? You have to treat them together. If you're releasing a PS4 game it has to support PS4 and PS4 Pro. Otherwise, forget it. Go straight to PS5. Now as a developer that would make me very rightfully nervous because there are over 100
million PS4s out there. If I want to sell, you know, 10 million copies of FIFA
or whatever, you can't. You gotta sell it on a console that at least has 10 million, right? I mean, obviously, the
PS5 and the Series X are wildly successful right now. But it's going to just
take a while for them to sort of hit any kind of critical mass. So on one hand, there's no way that the PS4 and the Xbox One can go away. But you look at stuff
like Cyberpunk, right? You look at how far
technology has come and how, honestly how weak that the PS4 and the Xbox One were from day one. It's hard for me to imagine that experience getting better, right? I mean, PC space has
come a huge, huge way, not only just in the last seven years, but even the last couple of years, right? You look at the RX 6000
series of graphics cards. You look at what AMD has
done with Ryzen processors. You look at the RTX
series and the 30 series, like there's so much that is advanced and there's so much more performance and capability available on
the high end of the PC space. That it really makes
the PS4 and the Xbox One absolutely pale in comparison, right? Now, yes, there's an argument to be made that you purchased a PS4 for $400 in 2013. You've got your money where
it was worth out of it. It's time to move on. But it's just not simply that easy, right? First of all, a lot of people certainly don't wanna go to PC. And while yes, I enjoy consoles and PCs, I'm not going to be out
here judging Little Timmy for not wanting to build his own gaming PC and instead just play
PS4 with his friends. I mean, obviously, that's not
a realistic sort of scenario. But when you look at how
far things have come, I think there's a real point that's coming far quicker than I expected where those original consoles and I'll throw the
enhanced in there with it, but I'm really talking mostly
about the PS4 and the Xbox One are falling severely behind, right? They're falling behind
at a rate that I mean, Cyberpunk I do think is a bad example because it is sort of
the worst case scenario. But this game should have
been much better, right? And am I going to sit here and tell you that Halo Infinite is going
to look like absolute butt on the Xbox One base model? Probably if I'm being honest. But I do think there's
a real point to be had as far as talking about
these last gen consoles and trying to get moved past
them as quickly as possible to move the entire industry forward. Now, that doesn't mean that there aren't other
uses for these consoles. Now I do think cloud
gaming does play a role. In fact, we actually did an entire video on our second channel, This Is, talking about this exact subject before Cyberpunk was pulled
from the PlayStation Store. But there are ways to
have more life out of the previous generation
of consoles, right? I do think when you have
stuff like Xbox Game Pass where you stream your
Game Pass ultimate games that are running on a
Series X in the cloud on your base Xbox One, that's a great way to give it more life. And while we get more
PS5s and Xboxes out there it's going to take a little
while to build that base. But sort of I've just been
really thinking a lot about this idea that if we are two months into this brand new generation and the last gen of
consoles are falling flat in such a hard way, that
should say something because these new consoles are just such a better well rounded package. And it helps that both the Xbox and the PlayStation side this time, have proper backwards
compatibility, right? So you can buy a PS5 and it'll
do everything your PS4 did and it'll do it better
and it'll play PS5 games. You can buy yourself a
Series S or a Series X. And as long as you don't need the discs on the Series S
side it will do everything that your Xbox One did
and much, much better. And so as we move forward
into 2021, and 2022, I'm not gonna be surprised to see the PS4 and the Xbox One have a much
sharper sort of drop off in the support of the games, right? I mean again, we're already
seeing it with things like Flight Simulator dropping
the base console support. Is it going to go away overnight? No. Do I think that they
should just, you know, pull the plug out? Of course not, right? I mean, there's just, you simply
cannot get around the fact that as of a couple months ago Sony we're still selling
brand new base PS4s, right? Microsoft, were still
selling brand new Xbox One Ss. Those consoles cannot just
go obsolete overnight. What I do think we're going to see is a much, much faster roll off of the last gen consoles
in favor of, of course, not only the PS5 and the Series X and Series S, but of course on the PC side because things have moved
so quickly, so aggressively that I think it would be
a disservice to everyone and gamers as a whole if these
last gen consoles hang around for three, four more years, and we get Cyberpunk style ports, right? Because if you have a PS4 and
you spend $60 on Cyberpunk and you get this kind of performance, how could you possibly
be okay with that, right? I mean, that almost is a
sales pitch to go up to a PS5 or Series X by itself or realistically sales
pitch to go buy a PC. So I'm very curious. What do you think about
the state of the PS4 and the Xbox One today? Something I've thought a
lot about it's something that I do think is aggressively changing. But the fact that we've
had a major AAA game which has been announced years and years and years and years ago, that
was obviously developed with the PS4 and the Xbox One
in mind the whole time. And it has not only performed so badly, but it's been literally removed
from the PlayStation Store, it's been recalled. That's a crazy thing to me. And I think that says a lot
about what we should expect out of that PS4 and out that Xbox One over the coming couple of years. Anyway, thank you very much for watching this impromptu rant. Make sure to subscribe to the channel if you're interested in
more coverage of not only the next generation of consoles, but what's left for your
sweet little PS4 and Xbox One, which is going to be
collecting some more dust over the next few years.