- It's all gone, and it
is time for a fresh start at our brand new office building! Apologies for the click bait,
but today I'm gonna give you a tour of our brand new
studio as well as give you a little look at our previous studio and say goodbye to the
many, many fun videos we've shot there. It's actually gonna be a little sad. So this is the spot that
we have been in for, actually a full six years now. Originally, this front room
was very different, right? So before it was painted
and we had all the wood up, this was almost more so storage, because our real first studio was actually in the back over here. It was a little bit of a gap
between when I had the fire and when I moved to California
and kind of really started getting set up. But this is really where
I treat the last few years of the channel really starting. This is where we built
the ultimate PS5 set up where we had all the consoles set up here. That was a huge project. It's honestly kind of sad to
tear a lot of this stuff down. The amount of times I've sat
here and ordered dumb things from Wish. Oh, hell no, electric
foot stimulator massager. No. I hate, dude, I hate electricity. I hate being shocked by things. Little gas engine from mystery tech. The coolest Walkman that's ever been made. So this is actually my dad's old camera. So this is a Roloflex. Actually, if you look
in, it's very blurry. If you're curious about any
of the more detailed stuff, Sara Dietschy actually
recently did a full studio tour which I would definitely
recommend checking out, where she went really in
depth on a lot of the stuff that we've got here. This space is very nostalgic
for me because this was our first real studio. So, it's hard to see
underneath all the stuff, but where Jared's standing
over here by the fridge, that was where the camera was. We actually didn't have
a refrigerator there. That was where the camera was. We had a table here. I sat on something like this. And this is how we did videos
for the first few years. The first episode of Mystery
Tech with Lamarr in it, still I think my favorite
video I've ever done, was right here. This is from a Broke vs
Pro, a year ago, maybe? So Ken built a PC in this desk. Ken came on and really
Overclock was founded in 2016. What is this? Ken, you? - [Ken] Told me not to cotton candy it. - Okay. Why don't we go take a look
at the other spot though? Otherwise I'm gonna
get too emotional here. This is probably gonna look
a whole lot more familiar. This has been our main studio
space for the last four years? Five years? We've had some people come in
who have looked at our spot and they're always like, "Oh my God, you do so much in this little spot." And like, yeah, well, this
is all we had, you know? This is the old This Is set. This is where we keep a lot of the gear, where we keep the Pokemon
cards that we open before every shoot, because
you know, it's important. And this is the old workshop,
which is incredibly tiny. You've probably seen this when
we were doing something like the PC builds last year,
where we were 3D printing the Checo build or
Minecraft stuff in here, and we'd have all the
actual lights controlled from this board. Look at this. This was the PS5/Xbox hybrid
that we did, I guess last year? I think as we've been moving
and tearing stuff apart, I keep finding more and
more little Easter eggs and sort of little memories of things. This, I would like to
think, looks a little bit more familiar. So this is the main channel
set that we currently have right now, and we're gonna
keep this up and running until it's fully set up in the new office. You'll still see videos
from in here for I'd say a few months. So you see there's so many nick-nacks. This is, we did a video on the first optical mechanical switch that Razer had, and we almost didn't make that video but ended getting like, 10 million views. (plastic clicking) So for our new set, it's
gonna be completely different. So we're gonna be re-doing
literally everything. Some stuff is gonna move over, like I think maybe the chalk
sign, I think the neon sign. Roboraptor which of course,
he'll go with us forever. Anytime you see us on a
backdrop or something, it's actually literally right here. This is where This Is 1.0 was shot. So we're literally in the normal spot, we just fly the desk out
of the way and I'd be like, "Welcome to the world's
craziest power plant" Or, you know, some of those
very early This Is videos. This is way more of an
emotional video than I thought 'cause I'm just realizing
that we gotta say goodbye to all this. The switch book from I
think the very first episode of the Ultimate Build Off
that Ken and Matt made. I don't know why Jared put this back here 'cause it looks like I'm
dead and it's the memorial for Austin. We've got the arcade cabinet. So this is actually originally
built for PUBG mobile. A lot of the stuff is still in here, and that video I think was so cool. All of this actually worked,
so not only had the LEDs, but actually had a fog machine inside, which is actually still in here. and we've got the table. - [Ken] The termite-infested table. - Look, we're not talking
about the termite. Okay, yes, has this table
had termites for five years? Maybe. have I continued to shoot here anyway? Absolutely. This is Austin's cancel corner. So anytime there's some
serious (blank) to talk about, I'm usually here and I'm like,
"Well, I'm sorry for saying the PS5 is better when
in fact it is worse" Or whatever nonsense. This is the main camera
angle for Mystery Tech. So you see, basically, if you flip around, this is the normal shot for Mystery Tech, so the camera lives all the way back here. We got the button which
you always just have to keep on deck. So this is actually where
I recorded the Test Drivers for two years. So I would literally set my laptop here with this USB-C cable. I had it all connected to the MixPre. I have my mic here,
which I'm gonna move over to the new studio soon. You guys wanna see the real secret stuff? - [Joanna] Oh yeah.
- [Jared] It's gonna be a mess. - [Austin] It is a mess. This is the storage spot. Oh, what? Is this not the right
shot, coming up the stairs? So this is all stuff that's
currently being moved. So we've got trays of CPUs, which I always find to be very exciting. Having a bunch of older consoles
comes in handy so often. So this backpack. So basically, the way this
thing was set up was that it would give me a
third person perspective where I had to build a
PC, and this was probably the worst video that I've
ever had to take part in. That was one of those few
videos where halfway through, I think I actually had to stop. I don't remember if I threw up or not, but I definitely remember,
I had to just take a break and come back the next day. While I might be a little
sad that we're leaving, let me give you a little sneak
peek at what the new spot looks like. You've seen a couple of
teases in a few videos over the last six months or so. Let's just say it looks
a little different now. Welcome to OC HQ. So this has been a very
long time in the making. We started looking for
stuff over a year ago was when I think the process started. - Over, longer than that. - And then what, a solid
six months of construction and just kind of prep and stuff. As you can see, we're literally
in the process of moving. This stuff showed up 20 minutes ago. We've got a chair here
where I can sit and... - [Matt] It's called a reception desk. - So this is the main work area. Hello, friends. We shamelessly stole Marques' desk idea. So these are the two sided
desks that you can just kind of lift up, because I'm personally
a big fan of standing desks. I would just point out
that literally everyone is awkwardly trying to
stay off camera right now, but I don't think, yeah,
everyone creeps around. On camera. Okay, Jared, that's enough, Jared. That's enough, Jared. So, if you've subscribed
to the highly successful, world acclaimed Denki channel,
you'll know that Ken's been making videos for a few
months, and those videos have primarily actually
been shot back here. So this was originally Denki
HQ for the first few months. Now it is Matt's office. - This is actually
probably the biggest office out of everyone's personal offices. So Matt, good for you. - Well, I'm the biggest
person out of all of them. - That's pretty true. That's fair, that's fair. - So we come around here, we
got a little kitchen area. This, I'm very excited to
say, is the break room. Now for context, you've seen
what our existing studio looks like. This is two thirds of the
size of our existing studio and it's just a break room. So one of the first things
we did when we moved in here was swap out all the lights. These are actually all LED. One of the things we
wanted to try to do is that while obviously upstairs
is the actual studio, so that's where we'll be
doing the proper filming. But for videos like this where
we just wanna wanna be able to walk around and shoot
stuff, we can just flip on the regular lights and it
is very bright in here. Almost too bright. So, this is a room I'm excited for. So we've never had one of these before. It's a conference room. We'll have a TV up here on the wall. I think this building is
about eight times bigger than all of our studios
combined right now. Jared, would you like
to go to your office? - [Jared] Oh, what an upgrade. Dude, this one has so much natural light. - Much better. Basically, the idea with
this space is that downstairs is where pretty much everyone works, but upstairs is where the fun happens. Oh, you're gonna take the elevator? - Yeah, we're taking the elevator. - Okay, they're gonna take the elevator. I'm gonna walk up the stairs. - [Joanna] Uh... - You're taking the elevator with them? - [Joanna] Well-
- All right, fine. No, no, no, you gotta shoot the stairs. - [Joanna] Okay. - I'm very excited because we have a sign. Again, signs make things legit. So we went back and forth on this design five or six different
times, and every time they came back like,
"Can you make it bigger? Can you make it bigger?" This is literally, they're
like, "That's too big." I'm like, "No, it looks great." How is the elevator? - It was great. Elevator is the best part
of this whole building. So this area right here is the gear cage. This is where the cameras and
all the kind of film equipment is going to live because
basically regardless of where you're shooting in the building, it's all, you can easily pull it from one spot. So in here is our B-roll studio. So as you can see right now,
this is mostly staging area for gear that's slowly coming over, but essentially, this is
gonna be Joanna's zone. We're basically gonna steal
Marques' top down room 'cause I really like that, but basically, this is a dedicated
studio just for B-roll. Now, over here is
Jared's actual work zone. Jared, would you like to give
us a tour of the workshop? - Sure, so this is my grand old workshop. Over here is gonna be
our 3D printer table. We have this brand new Rat Rig V-Core 3. That's how big we're gonna
be able to print with it. - [Austin] Which is huge for a 3D printer. - It's massive. And then this will just
be a general workspace. - [Austin] This is not huge,
but compared to the last space which was half the size of this
table was a whole workshop. - It was literally a
kitchen in an apartment. That was what we were using as a workshop. - So this is studio A. Unlike our friends in
the great white north who have 11 buildings, we
wanna make sure that this lasts for a long time, so the idea
is that we're most likely gonna end up splitting this room into half. This would be a PC build zone in the back, but honestly, for right now,
this is just gonna be storage as we move, and then we'll build
the studios out bit by bit. So back here is more storage. A lot of this is going to be cable wall. And in here, this is the
beginnings of our server room. So as you can see, it's
completely empty in here. We did install a dedicated
AC system just to make sure that no matter what, it's cool in here. Now, if you wanna see something beautiful, come look at this. This Cat 6a. It all runs up here, and you
can see half of it goes up into the ceiling, half of it
goes down to the downstairs. So we're gonna have
full 10 gigabit ethernet throughout the entire office. This is the most important
room in the entire building. Well, according to me at least. This is our new main channel set. So where you see we shoot Mystery Tech and pretty much all of our
videos will all be done in here. It'll be, as you can see,
a couple months before we're actually ready to start using this. Continuing on. So this is the new This Is office. So as you can see, it is not done yet, so it's actually being
built literally as we speak. - We have what I have
deemed the Chipotle wall. - So, for reference, two
days ago, this was a window. - This is gonna add to
what This Is can do. We're gonna have a couple extra angles. - This Is, it's gonna be the first thing, or this is gonna be the next
project operational in here. - Yes.
- From when you watch this video, this will actually
probably be fairly close to being done. - Yeah.
- Ken, would you like to show Denki studio? - Yeah. - So actually, before we
walk in here, so when we did the Target versus Walmart challenge, this was the door that
we had to smash into, which has now been removed and sealed up. And that's one of the things
that's been kind of fun about this whole project. Every time I come over here,
everything's different, right? Like, "Oh, the window
disappeared." Or, "Oh, this thing's been built" Or whatever the case is. - Walls that weren't
here before now exist. For the Denki room, which
used to be two rooms, now it's just one gigantic room. So this is Denki studio. This is where I shoot all of the videos. It looks very different from the old space because the paint colors are different, the floors are different. But, I'll say that it's
way more comfortable 'cause I'm not in a
little shoebox anymore. I'm actually in a fairly big room. - And this is my favorite thing in here. The floating headphones stand. - It's not even really
designed as a headphones stand. You're actually supposed to
put your kicks or whatever. It's a shoe stand. - So that is the Denki studio. And that's actually pretty
much the whole office. I think above all, I wanna
thank each and every one of you for watching, for subscribing, for ringling the dingling bell. You guys are all what made
this possible, and so, I'm excited to try to up
the quality, up the content, and just up everything that we do. And now we finally have the space to do it where we're not literally all
over each other's shoulder, crammed in a tiny little
apartment, trying to make videos. We'll see how this looks in 10 years. - Or in three years when
we have a new building. That one over there, that one's for sale.