- Hey guys, this is Austin! This is the gaming PC that we
built just a few weeks ago, which has since seen some slight upgrades since the last time you've seen it. So, as a little bit of a refresher, before we had a Core i7-8086K inside, a GTX 1080 Ti, we had 16 gigs of memory, 512 gig ssd, Optane memory,
a 14 terabyte hard-drive. This is a pretty well spec'd system, but in the last few weeks there's been a few new
hardware announcements, if you've missed them. Including now the RTX 2080
Ti which we have installed. But also he brand new Intel Core i9-9900K. We're going from six cores
on the previous high-end up to eight cores with hyper-threading. If you go to the i7,
you've got eight cores to that hyper-threading. If you go to the i5, it's
going to have six cores with no hyper-threading. No more hyper-threading, it's a sad day. Except, well, it's not really, 'cause it doesn't make a
big difference but, yeah. So where our 8086 processor from before was a very overclockable six core chip with a five gigahertz
boost out of the box, what we're getting with the i9 is actually a similar performance. So the base clock is 3.6 gigahertz, but right out of the box without
having to touch anything, we can hit five gigahertz. And believe me when I say, little bit of overclocking,
this thing should be impressive. But unlike most videos
where we spend lots of times benchmarking and testing, today we're doing something
a little different. I'm going to do all this live, and see exactly just how powerful this Core i9 is compared
with the RTX 2080 Ti. I hope this all goes well, and not like one of Linus's videos where he spends three days troubleshooting some obscure technical issue. It all looks like it works though, so. So this is the first time that
we've had a full eight core processor on the consumer side for Intel. Now Ryzen has been around for a few years and that does actually support
a full eight core chip. But this is a little bit more expensive and hopefully a little bit more powerful. So the first thing I'm gonna
do, is run a quick Cinebench. The 8086 ran something
like a 212 on single-core. So, let's see how close
we can get with this. So, while we're running the test, it's looking like around
4.4 to 4.5 gigahertz. Actually, I don't know why
this is not boosting higher. I mean, it's a perfect
single-threaded workload, it should be at a five gigahertz or at least somewhere around that. But we're pretty much
topped out at 4.4 to 4.5. I wonder, (chuckles) if
the technical problems are already beginning. 190, yeah that's (sighs), man! That's lower. So, we get like 210 or so on the 8086 and that's 100% because this
is not boosting up higher. I can't even get one benchmark done. I'm all happy like, yeah cool! We got you know, no technical problems 'cause it all works. I've been doing this for five seconds, and we're already not doing well. Oh no, the internet dropped didn't it? You gotta be kidding though, right? (chuckles) Look at that! No internet! Great! This is like the lamest version of the video I had in mind possible. One quick BIOS update later, we have something that
should boost a lot quicker. So let's start the single-core. Ideally we see, oh yeah, 4.9, 4.9, five gigahertz, there we go, that's what I'm talking about. And again, this is not overclocked. Running on a single-core, this chip should easily
hit five gigahertz. And especially, if we're actually able to put a little bit more
overclock through it. Oh man! I'm so happy, it's always great
when it's not a huge issue and it's something really simple like, I forgot to get the most recent BIOS instead of the one right before that. Okay, so our first run
was 190 before the update, and there we go, 213. So it's almost exactly
what we got at the 8086 which does make sense. As far as single-threaded
performance goes, they're both Skylake cores, and they both can boost to five gigahertz. The real test is when we
switch over to the multi-core. (chuckles) That's so much better! Man, I've just done
Cinebench so many times, it's nice to see that many
threads just chewing it up. So for reference, the last time, we got about just under 1400 on the 8086 but with two more cores,
and we're still boosting it, look at that, 4.7 gigahertz
on all eight cores. Look at that, it's done! Wow! 2078, that is actually, that's actually, wait why is it? That's really high, hang on a second. What's the difference there? Dude, that's almost 40% faster. So, I guess there's a
couple reasons behind that. One of which would be of course, we do have two more cores that's naturally going to kick in some performance. And we were able to stay at
4.7 gigahertz the entire time. I think a big part of that, is that unlike the older series chips
which did have a little bit of thermal paste in
between the heat spreader and the chip, instead we
actually have solder now, which does dissipate that
heat a little bit better, and allows to boost really
high out of the box, that's cool, that actually... - Hey! I see what you did there! Before we get too far into it though, let's actually get a
little bit of 3DMark going. (sighs loudly) Did the
internet drop again? (chuckles) No it didn't, did it? That's great when it
turns on for five minutes and then drops back out, makes this video super easy to do. - [Group] Woosah! - After a little bit of internet TLC, it's back up and it's
time to run Time Spy. So this is a benchmark which is primarily going to test our RTX 2080 Ti. But with that Core i9 on board, it should help out a little bit. But I'm mostly curious to see how it actually stacks up compared to our previous setup with 1080 Ti. For reference, our previous score completely sucked, mind
you, with 9,487 in Time Spy. So that's what we've gotta beat. I think we've got a pretty good shot. So this is a Founders
Edition of the RTX 2080 Ti. And just like with the CPU, we're not doing any kind
of overclocking right now. I wanna get a pure apples
to apples benchmark. Then, we can get a look at
more of the fun stuff going. All right, not bad! So, we went from 9,400
all the way up to 12,641. And what the big things that
I think helped us there, is the CPU score is 11,000. That's not bad. - [Ken] Oh, you should, yeah. Yeah. - That's gonna take a while. $10 later, I have now upgraded my Time Spy for the full 4K version. Now I actually don't have the numbers on what this is like on the
1080 Ti and the previous setup. But, I'm curious to see how
it performs against well, I guess everyone else's 2080 Ti numbers? Wait, why are we doing this? Everyone else is like overclocking, this is like, totally stocked. There's no point of running it in 4K. Ken, did I just placed $10 for nothing? - [Ken] It's for-- - For Science? - [Ken] Science. - Interesting. This is totally different
than the normal version. 6,100, wow that's actually really fast. Wow! So, I've not tested any
other 2080 Ti setups but that's actually a little bit quicker, and I think it's mostly because of the i9? Well actually to be fair, we are running the Founders Edition. So benchmarks, cool,
but let's actually play some real games. Smash cut to me playing Fortnite. (chuckles) So a little bit of Dave's
favorite gameplay from the bus, full Epic settings, 4k. Fortnite is pretty smooth,
85, 90 frames per second. As you drop, maybe a little bit closer to the high 70's maybe? Yeah, it's a, I can play Fortnite, in case you're curious. You know what's kind of
nice about this setup? It's surprisingly quiet, even though we've got the Founders Edition which definitely does not
have the best kind of cooling, there's definitely some after market cards which have much much beefier coolers that'll get a lot more airflow going. But this is actually
a fairly quiet system. And keep in mind this is
with the side panel off. Oh you know, if I jump on
here I can parachute, can't I? This is about, this is playground. No, okay maybe I can't do that. Got it, okay! That's great. A little bit of PUBG action again, 4k, Ultra settings and here running around in this completely empty area with no other people to test it with. We've got 78 frames per second. This is the way to do it, right? You walk around all the
people who are just sitting in the lobby not doing anything. It's actually a reasonable
specs test, though. PUBG does definitely scale based on how many characters you
have on screen at once. You know it's funny, even
at 4k Ultra settings, PUBG, still not the nicest
looking game around. Is it too late to test
Call of Duty: Black Ops? All right! We're in the game and we've got a pretty impressive 80 frames per second. This is, actually it's kind of impressive, that with a single GPU
and with a consumer, oh it's bad, it's bad,
it's bad, it's bad, okay! So that is just a little taste of what you gonna expect
at the Core i9-9900K as well as RTX 2080 Ti. Definitely stay tune,
this is not the last time you're going to see
this PC on the channel.