(Austin groaning) - Hey guys, this is Austin, and today I'm making a
very questionable decision. Oh god, this is so heavy. This, actually I don't
even know what it is. You know it's serious
though when you send it in a freaking crate. (Austin drilling) - Okay Alright. - [Ken] Whoa! - [Austin] What? - [Ken] Come take a look at the front. - [Austin] PS4?! (upbeat techno music) - Wait, wait. Look, look at the back, Look at the back. Look at the back. So, you can see this is the PC part, you know, you got you
motherboard and everything. Look at this, You've got a
power input an HDMI and a USB. Did they build a PS4 into a PC case? Is that the title of the video right now? - [Austin] Remove
internal before start up. I wonder if anyone's
actually ever tried to turn it on with all that? Like, "Hm, my brand new gaming PC! "Looks a little weird
inside but whatever!" Oh damn, all right, we got a 2080 Ti! What is this cable? It's going from PCI slot and it's going, It's being routed to the back? Is it like a capture card that's
built into the PS4, maybe? - [Ken] That's probably what it is, so you can, you can run both. - Ohhh! Okay
- [Ken] Simultaneously. - Alright, so we open
up the back of the case - [Ken] Surprise me! - [Both] Ohhh! (laugh) - [Ken] There it is, yeah! Wait, they water cooled the-- - [Austin] They water cooled the PS4! And they put, ah, that's so cool! - [Austin] Dude, this is like the ultimate PS4 streaming box. (cardboard rustling) - Ohhh, A Scuf controller, you say? Okay, all right, all right. - [Austin] So... (Ken laughing) What? (Ken laughing) - [Ken] Ohhh! - [Austin] What? Ohhh, What?! What? (Austin laughing) Did Matt put them up to this? Are you serious? - [Ken] Hold on, hold
on. Wait, wait, wait. - What do we got here, Ken? (Ken giggling) He's speechless. (Matt giggling) - No way better way to
kick off the New Year than with the sponsor of
today's video, Audible! Now with Audible, not
only do you get access to a wide variety of Audible originals, which are high quality audio
books that you'll only find on Audible but they even have a brand new New Year's challenge. If you listen to three
audio books between now and March 3rd, you will
get $20 of Amazon credit. It's that simple, you
don't have to sign up for anything, just listen
to some audio books and you get free money! 'Cause free is good, right? Now, if you're looking for a
new audio book to listen to, I recommend the "Console
Wars" by Blake Harris. In fact, it's so
interesting we did an entire This Is episode all about it. However, when you go
to sign up for Audible, not only do you get any audio book, including "Console Wars"
if you'd like for free, but you also access to
two Audible originals and all you need to do is
go to Audible.com/Austin or you can text "Austin" to "500 500". Again, that's Audible.com/Austin or text "Austin" to "500 500" and a huge thank you to Audible
for sponsoring this video! - Alright, ready? (upbeat techno music) Oooh! Okay. So, the PC part is
definitely firing up, no problem. What I don't see is anything going on for the PS4 side. How do we get PS4 to turn on? - [Ken] Well, to be fair. - Yes? - [Ken] So, this one's
not turning on or spinning - [Austin] Yeah? - [Ken] But that's the one
that actually cools the PS4. - Ohhh, you are very, very correct! So, maybe we need to get the PS... But I just don't see
how we're supposed to be turning on the PS4 right now. - [Ken] YOLO. (upbeat techno music) Nope. (Austin laughing) - [Ken] that just restarted
the computer, I'm sorry. - Yes, that button did exactly what that button looks like
it's going to do, um... So, after some technical difficulties, we have finally gotten our Big O fixed. It was slightly damaged in shipping, however, I have to give Origin props. So, this is a prototype system but even just in the last few weeks since we started working on this video, they've actually updated a few things on our specific system. So, now we have a Noctua
fan as well as bracket for the capture card. Now this is certainly not final, and some of the things
that they're working on is adding a legitimate power button. So, right now when you go to plug it in, you have to turn it on with the controller but, now you'll actually be able to use a power button and they also
are adding an ethernet jack. So, those are the two of the things that when I initially looked
at it, I was like, "Eh..." But they're working on
it for the final version. Take a look here, in OBS we
have a 4K 60 feed of Battlefront, so I can move around and
everything works just fine. But on top of that, we're of
course running full Windows. Now the real idea behind this system is that, first and foremost,
I think most people are going to be interested
in this for streaming because with a single computer, you're of course having
all the power you want, you can load it up with everything up to like a 2080 TI and a Core i9, but the cool thing is you have a PS4, you have a XBOX built in
with the capture card. So, this is all I need
to play and stream games at the same time but if you
really want to be extra with it you can theoretically have
like a second TV hooked up, be playing PS4 on one side, be playing PC games on the other side, streaming it, doing whatever you want, and it's all in one single box. Is it for everyone, absolutely not! When it comes to building
the ultimate PS4, well, adding a PC on
this side's pretty cool. Well, the only slight down side is that while you do have a lot of things that they will be adding, like ethernet and everything like that, you still do not have a disc drive, so you will need to install discs digitally, however, with a one
terabyte SSD to your PS4, not exactly the end of the world. So, let's play, single
player 'cause I suck. So inside Windows, I will start recording, so, we should have a 4K 60 feed. And now if I switch back to the PS4. Now, mind you, what you
should be doing here is using two different displays, not one, but I only have one here so I'm just switching back and forth. This is certainly not final hardware, but I've got to say the
Big O is fairly quiet, especially considering we have a Core i9, and RTX 2080 Ti, and of
course a full PS4 Pro built in as well. Oh, that HDR's real. (beeping) Whoa, what? "The PS4 is too hot,
turn off the PS4 and wait "until the temperature goes down." (acoustic guitar) Oh... Oh, okay, um... So, now would be a good time to mention that the thermals are not final yet. Um... So, I can immediately tell that it's quite hot on the sides. Ooh, yeah, that's almost 50 degrees with this exhaust right here. So, looking at it here, I mean, the capture card is
warm, which makes sense, it's a capture card. But the actual PS4 internals don't seem to be particularly warm. I mean, yeah, there's
definitely some heat up by like the power supply but nothing
that I would consider to be incredibly dangerous. What's interesting here
is if you take a look at the thermal solution, it's
actually a little bit unusual. So, inside, what you have here is you have a 240mm radiator, which
is dedicated for the CPU. Fine, reasonable, but on top of that, we also have our 120 mm radiator, which is dumping all
the heat from the PS4. Then we have one additional fan. Now, I wonder, in their
testing, Origin claims that they're able to
play a PC game maxed out as well as the PS4 and have no issues. However, this has been running
for maybe 30 minutes now and we're getting, yeah,
"PS4 is too hot" warnings. I don't want to be too unfair,
this is still a prototype, they still have a lot of work
that they can do with this, however, it does concern me
that's a lot of power, right? And consider that, it's
starting to get a little warm and we don't even have a game
running on the PC right now. Okay, so, PS4 is running, let's go ahead a fire up a Deus Ex benchmark and see what happens. So, like, right now, our CPU
is only at about 65 degrees. So, the CPU is well within temperature. Um, on the PC side. So, the PC doesn't seem
to have any major issues. It does seem like the
real issue here is PS4. I think it is holding up, I'm definitely not... Dying right now. - [Ken] It hasn't turned off yet. - [Austin] Yeah, like realistically, this is a high end PC with basically a kind of, a three quarters of another gaming PC that also has to cool with the PS4. Like, I get the idea, but if you take a look at the backside, obviously, this is plenty of room for the PS4 motherboard and everything, but the fact is still have to cool that, and that little exhaust
fan in the back is, I think, way more so
for like cooling the VRM and like the power supply, the main chunk of heat
is definitely going into the PC side of the case
with the 120 mm radiator. And I'm not totally convinced that that's going to be enough. I kind of think though that
a 240 mm radiator up front is going to be necessary,
but as of right now, I think it is a very cool concept, but I'm really curious to see
exactly what the final version looks like when it goes on sale! At some point, in the future. Or maybe we should try the Xbox one next? (upbeat techno music) Oh, that's... I actually didn't wear this shirt intentionally today on purpose. (Austin laughing) It's like, of course the Xbox fanboy is making fun of the PS4.