So there's this conjecture due to Paul Erdős, one 
of the great mathematicians of the 20th century,  he's uh, like everyone, 
interested in the prime numbers   and posed a very uh beautiful 
conjecture to do with primitive sets;   this conjecture is now a full theorem.
- (Brady: Why is it a full theorem? It's because)  (of you!)
- Yeah, yeah I recently proved it. Before   we get into primitive sets I just wanted to start 
with a nice quote of Gauss that I always love:   'Mathematics is the queen of the sciences and 
number theory is the queen of mathematics'. Let   me see if an analogy will hit with you: we have 
the queen here in England I guess, and her majesty   has the crown jewels right? There are these 
beautiful diamonds; number theory is the queen   of mathematics, then I would say that the primes 
kind of are these kind of precious diamonds,  these glistening and beautiful objects. If uh the 
queen has a whole horde a whole hoard of crown   jewels like what would be the the full collection 
of jewels in this analogy with number theory? And   my proposal is that this would be the class of 
primitive sets. We say a set is primitive if it   satisfies a certain property, and the collection 
of all such sets are the primitive sets;   but a good thing to keep in mind is that for 
example with a prime number, that is a property   of a number - so it, a number is prime if it has 
no uh factors uh other than one and itself - so   this is a property about numbers. And by contrast 
primitive sets are properties about sets or   properties about collections of numbers, so it has 
less to do with an individual number but rather   kind of the whole family, and so this is maybe 
where this uh analogy is coming in of looking   at like the whole uh hoard of crown jewels.
- (So are all the even numbers a set?) Yes,   the set of even numbers, odd numbers, numbers that 
have no sevens in them, the squares, the cubes   etcetera. This is maybe one level of abstraction 
away where instead of looking at numbers   individually we're interested in collections and 
looking at the properties that these collections   may satisfy. Let's start with a definition,
so we'll say that a set s is primitive if   no number in s is divisible or divides any 
other. So that's just saying that if we have   two numbers in our set that are different, 
say a and b, that means the ratio a over b   and b over a are never a whole number.
- (So if 4 and 2 are in the set,   the set is not primitive?)
- Right right because   4 is a multiple of 2 - or 2 divides 4.
- (I'm imagining there are a lot of   primitive sets.) (I'm imagining there are 
an infinite number of primitive sets!)  - Yeah I mean this is- so so one of the things we 
like about prime numbers is that the definition   is very basic and kind of- so the primes are like 
the basic building blocks of arithmetic because   you can build all the numbers kind of in a unique 
way out of the primes. And similarly if you're now   instead of looking at individual numbers and 
you're looking at sets of numbers, a primitive   set- so this definition is almost the simplest 
you can kind of come up with in the same spirit.  - (All the prime numbers is an 
example of a primitive set.) Yeah right exactly, so-
- (Is that the only set   that has an infinite number of members?) Oh no, that's a good question; so let's 
look at some examples. So let's consider   the set of numbers 4, 6, 9, 10, 15 etc. So 
these are going to be the numbers with two   prime factors and here-
- (Two and only two?) Yeah exactly two. With- so for example with 
4 we have a 2 and a 2 so if the same prime   occurs twice we still count it as being in the 
set. So you know you have 2 times 2, 2 times 3,   3 times 3, 2 times 5, 3 times 5 etc; and so 
this is an infinite set of numbers and I'm   claiming that no number will divide any other. 
Take the number 10 right? So 10 is 2 times 5.   The divisors of 10 are therefore 1, 2, 5 and 
itself, so we'll ignore the number itself,   but we see the kind of list of all divisors 
of 10 are not falling in any of this list,   so this will have, you know, no prime factors, one 
prime factor, one prime factor. And more generally   if you take any number, let's say p times q,
so any any number in this set is going to be   exactly the form p times q where p and q are 
primes and q might equal p but it may not, but   if we play the same game the divisors of p times 
q are 1, p, q and then p times q itself. But we   see in particular if you have two numbers 
with two prime factors you're never going   to get one lying in the list of the other. So 
so in general if a number has k prime factors   then all its its divisors will have 
fewer prime factors, so fewer than k,   and all of its multiples will have more than k 
prime factors. We've produced another family so   example two: for any k the set of numbers 
with k prime factors is primitive.  - (So all the numbers) (with three 
prime factors, all the numbers with-)  - Exactly yeah.
- (Why are they called primitive? Because)  (obviously they don't have to be prime numbers.)
- Primitive is also kind of the idea of uh like   a basic building block. At the end of the day 
these are just English words that have been kind   of chosen but this is meant to convey some idea 
of these being a very simple definition that's   containing some of the basic structure. We have 
these nice examples of just the primes themselves,   we have numbers with two prime factors, three 
prime factors, four prime factors - for any   your favorite k - and these are kind of building 
some intuition for what these primitive sets are.   But in general the definition of a primitive is 
very uh simple and so it emits a very broad class   of sets. Paul Erdős was interested in these 
sets and he proved the following result: 1935   Erdős showed that there is a constant c such that 
for any primitive set, let's say s, the sum of 1   over n log n for n ranging in your set is at 
most this constant c for any primitive set s. (What does that mean?)
- This is saying that we have   a series that converges. In other words for 
any set you throw at me I'll spit back at you   a number; particularly this conversion series.
We've come up with a rule that assigns   every set a number, the claim-
- (Like a unique number?) Yeah,   so this is this is going to be a unique series. So 
for example with the primes we already knew about   the primes in particular, we knew that the series- 
so this is going to be 1 over p log p which   is nothing more than the sum of 1 over 2 log 
2, plus 1 over 3 log 3, plus 1 over 5 log 5,   plus 1 over 7 log 7...So this is an infinite 
series, one term for every prime and the claim   is that this is finite. So if you kind of ran 
some uh computations on Mathematica for example,   this comes out to a number that's about 1.6366.
- (So are you telling me every set has like)   (almost like a fingerprint?)
- Yeah exactly, so it's like a way to reduce   the complexity of a very uh jumbled uh object and 
just come out spit out just a simple number to   yeah to kind of gauge the the size of the set.
- (Can you reverse engineer that too? If   I gave you the c could you tell me) (what the set is?)
- Not necessarily.   So it's not- it's not an exact DNA match. By 
contrast, the sum of all numbers, 1 over n log n,   over all numbers or between 1 and infinity - 
so this is just - okay so let's let's ignore   1 because uh that'll get us problems already. 
But even just starting at 2 or any finite place,   3 log 3 - so so far we're starting off 
the same but now we're going to include 4,   plus 5 log 5, but 6 log 6 etc. This actually 
diverges and goes to infinity. So Erdős is   telling us that for primitive sets, that we have 
this nice sum that gives us information about the   size of the set, but in general for most sets uh 
this sum will diverge and then kind of uh give us   junk that we don't know how to handle.
- (So we've got all these these) (numbers that- these constants, these 
numbers that can be attached to various sets)  - Yeah, so this is a way of kind of assigning an 
index number to every set and one should have the   intuition is that this is saying something about 
the size of a set. So the Erdős primitive set   conjecture says that in the theorem we can take 
c to be the sum of primes. So that is to say,   for any primitive set, this sum of 1 over n 
log n, for n ranging in your set, is at most   this sum over primes, 1 over p log p. So that's 
just 1 over 2 log 2, plus 1 over 3 log 3,   1 over 5 log 5...
- (That 1.63-) Yeah and it comes out, and this comes 
out to a finite number, 1.6366. So   the conjecture is that every sum for primitive-
uh over a primitive set is at most about 1.6.  (Okay and so there's no primitive set you could 
create that would have one of those fingerprint) (numbers above 1.6366)
- Right exactly, this is the upper limit,   you can't do any better by being as clever as 
you want, this is this is as good as it gets.   And so another way of kind of thinking 
about this conjecture and the reason why   I particularly think it's a very 
beautiful conjecture is that   even though primitive sets are very- so the 
definition of a primitive set is very simple,   so there could be all these chaotic 
sets satisfying the simple condition,  and nevertheless there's this nice condition 
saying in some sense that this kind of measure   of complexity is being maximized by the primes. 
In other words that the primes are the largest   primitive set among all primitive sets as measured 
by this uh uh nice statistic. (That kind of like-   I can feel why intuitively that would be 
true, it would like it would feel right) (that all the primes is the king of primitive 
sets.) - Yeah so so that's- I mean uh for those   kind of who who love the channel, I mean, in 
our hearts we we all feel that the primes are   special and it's hard it's sometimes hard 
to articulate why uh we we love something   but at least in this conjecture Erdős is 
giving us one particular way of articulating   uh in a quantitative rigorous way why 
the primes are special, at least in   kind of the broader context of its family of 
larger sets. So to go back to this analogy,   we are saying that kind of the primitive sets are 
the diamonds uh that are kind of the- you know,   if you go if you go to a jeweller and get them 
appraised the diamonds will always fetch the   the most sum as compared to the emeralds of the 
rubies and the sapphires. They're also going to   perhaps be very valuable, but this is giving us 
some consolation in our hearts that these are   really the the most brilliant jewels.
- (That analogy falls down because)  (rubies are often worth more than diamonds but-)
- Oh, okay. That tells you that tells you how   much I know about uh jewellery.
- (Okay, so I guess the reason it   may not have been the case is because you showed) (me that non-prime numbers 
can be in primitive sets.  So you can imagine a world where you) (could have built some pretty impressive 
primitive sets, but you'll never get   one- you'll never get) (one as good.)
- Yeah, that's the point. And so uh this was   a beautiful conjecture that Erdős and others had 
worked on in the 90s and there wasn't really much   progress; so when I heard this problem back in my 
undergraduate I was just- absolutely fell in love   with the problem because it's saying that these 
primes are very special uh in a precise way, but   I never really expected to- This- this question 
is like one of those uh kind of dreams you have   in the back of your mind that, oh it wouldn't 
be great if uh something like this were true   and I just uh never kind of uh really gave up 
on the problem. - (This was your Fermat's last   theorem was it?) You could say that, uh I just I 
just found this uh such a beautiful uh statement.  - (What did you do? What did you see? What did 
you think of that no one else had thought of?)  Okay so the first thing to say is that this 
is now a theorem, so uh so this is in 2022:   the Erdős primitive set conjecture.
- (Don't you get your name on it now?)  - Uh I guess if if you
- (Shouldn't be the   Lichtman primitive set conjecture?)
- If you say so? I don't know, I feel that uh   it's it's not necessarily my place to call it
that but if if you want to say I won't uh I   won't uh uh argue with that.
- (What's the key? I mean I'm   imagining it might be a bit more advanced than I) (can understand but-)
- Yeah so it really goes back   to ideas of Erdős back in the 1930s. So he had 
proved that for any primitive set you throw at me,   I'll spit back a sum that'll converge. And 
the ideas that Erdős really developed back   in the 1930s turned out to be quite relevant to 
proving the full conjecture. I should say that the   later work that Erdős did was in a very different 
direction so it was not at all clear that this-   these ideas were relevant. But essentially uh 
what I was doing was essentially looking at   the the proposal that Erdős had, and a beautiful 
argument that kind of reinterpreted what this uh   series is in a more uh probabilistic way, and kind 
of gave some more probability interpretation for   for these sets to really give the idea that this 
series is measuring the size. There are a few key   ingredients in this argument that are a 
little bit inefficient, and by identifying   these steps and kind of tuning them up and 
tightening the screws and putting some oil   it turns out that Erdős' ideas could really be 
continued a lot further than initially thought.  - (So in your proof did you sort of think, 
gosh Erdős you were so close to doing) (it   yourself. Did he- did he did not quite see it?)
- Yeah I mean, I also had been thinking about   other ideas uh that he had gone off and done so I 
really came to this uh his original argument much   later and uh it was a quite surprising to me that 
these sort of ideas uh could be relevant um but it   was it was a really uh a really beautiful moment.
- (Where's- has your proof been published)   (yet or what happens now?)
- The first step in letting other-   your your friends and other mathematicians know 
is you upload uh your proof to the archive and   then there's a more formal process of getting 
it kind of submitted to a journal and getting   it reviewed meticulously, but I had also kind 
of shared my proof with my advisor and other   people to kind of make sure that I wasn't 
thinking wrongheadedly about some things.  - (What did your advisor say when 
you when you sent it through?) So uh he actually didn't know I was working on 
this problem so uh I kind of half was thinking   that he'd be angry at me for not working on the 
problem that he'd set for me, and this was like   something I'd been doing by candlelight at night 
surreptitiously. But so I'd let him know back in   uh this winter that I'd solved the- or I'd come up 
with this proof and he uh so he he took time over   several months to look at it and kind of vet all 
the steps there, you know, dot all the i's and uh   cross all the t's, uh but he he was uh also very 
uh happy for me and I was it was it was just a   very nice moment. A natural question to ask is, 
so if you're interested in primitive sets but   you're throwing away the primes now; suppose your- 
all the numbers in your set will be composite.   Then you can ask a similar question, so we know 
that there's still some upper bound but if we're   looking at fewer sets then these uh series could 
be even smaller. So the question is, if you're   looking at primitive sets of composite numbers,
what is the largest the sum can be? Do you-   do you have?
- (I'm going to guess that number over 2.) (No, I don't know. Half that number? Or is 
it is it vanishingly close to that number?)   That's actually a good question and that relates 
to some of the ideas that I'd been thinking about   uh in the course of the proof.
- (Has that number got a name,   that like that upper bound?) So this is just one of these uh so so they're-
- (How about the Lichtman constant?) I won't argue with you there. So 
this particular sum over primes- so there are many uh sums, you know, uh for 
example uh there's a famous sum 1 over p   squared which uh may be familiar to some uh 
fans of the channel. This also converges,   converges actually quite a bit faster than the 
series, but yeah so it turns out that this sum   converges but just barely. The the conjecture 
is that if you're looking at all primitive sets,   the primes are maximizing. But if you throw out 
the primes, the numbers with two prime factors is   conjecturally the largest within this restricted 
family of composite numbers. And more generally - so this is also one example of a much broader 
conjecture which says if you're looking at numbers   with at least k prime factors, for any k,   that are primitive, this should be maximized by 
the set of numbers with exactly k prime factors.  - (The one with two prime factors 
that you tell me is the next) (biggest after the primes-)
- Yeah, this this is an open problem.   We don't know, this is the conjecture, this 
is a conjecture that's been put forward.  - (What is- what is the fingerprint)
(number for the the two prime factors?)  - If you look at- so this is
- (I'm calling it the) (fingerprint number.)
- Yeah the fingerprint numbers,   after fingerprint. Usually we 
denote by P as the set of primes,   and if you just look at the set, let's say 
p to the 2 power, this will be the set of   number of two prime factors. So this is a sum, 
this will be 1 over 4 log 4 plus 1 over 6 log 6 etc and you can kind of play this game where 
you increase the exponent and these numbers   get smaller and smaller. One of the aspects of 
this conjecture is that you'd want uh every step   that you increase k you'd want this corresponding 
fingerprint number to go down. And so you'd have   this kind of chain of inequalities saying that 
the primes are the largest, the numbers with two   prime factors are the second largest, numbers of 
three prime factors. And so this is in some sense   going back to your comment earlier about trying 
to uh recover some structure within this very   chaotic class of primitive sets and just kind of 
carve out some nice decomposition in some kind of   prime way that we've seen before.
- (So if I had all of the numbers   with two prime factors in a set,) (is it impossible I could throw one extra number 
into that bowl? Or would that break-) (That would   break the set's primitiveness would it?)
- Yeah yeah, so so so-  - (Because- because) (then I could 
upp my fingerprint number if I   could find another number.)
- Right exactly. So   so let's let's take your example. 
So if we have- we're starting with   the numbers with just two prime factors 
and you want to throw in another number.   So that number is either going to be 1, 
which will divide all numbers, it'll be   either a prime which will divide, or 
it'll have at least three prime factors. But so let's say this number is p times q times r,
you throw away any prime of these and then you'll   have a number with two prime factors, but that's 
already in our list. So the set of numbers with   two prime factors can't be increased anymore while 
still being primitive; so this is sometimes known   as a maximum- maximal primitive set. So you can't 
increase it anymore artificially. More generally,  and for any k the set of numbers 
with exactly k prime factors   is going to be maximal in the way that 
you can't increase the set anymore.   And you can just see this by trying to 
uh throw a number that either has fewer   than k prime factors - and so in particular 
will divide a number on our list - or it will have more than k prime factors and 
it will be a multiple of a number in our list.  So that- that that really shows that these are 
maximal. But so in particular for this conjecture,   I've lied to a little bit Brady. So it turns 
out these numbers with exactly k prime factors   are a very special class of primitive sets and 
the set of all primitive sets is much larger.   So this is- this is the hope that you can have 
this kind of nice way of saying something about   a very large class, but it turns out if you 
uh plug these uh numbers in for for larger k,  it turns out that after k goes past 
6 the numbers start increasing again.   So-
- (The fingerprint numbers? The fingerprint numbers start to go 
down from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and then at 6 they seem to go up again. But it's actually also a 
theorem due to myself that these numbers tend to 1   as k goes to infinity. So they're really wedged in 
this thin strip. There may be some other kind of   super exotic set with uh- of composite numbers 
that conjecturally could pass this threshold but   we believe that this is the best case. So what I 
just described with k equal 6 being the minimum   is actually breaking the original conjecture of 
Banks and Martin but there's a way of slightly   tweaking their conjecture by getting rid of 
even numbers that can conjecturally recover   uh this nice picture. So if you're looking at 
primitive sets of odd numbers then there is  still a glimmer of hope that we can get a nice 
decomposition into odd primitive sets this way. ...these numbers. So by introducing this kind of 
seemingly abstract definition his work introduced   this definition and really opened up this field 
and today we know kind of the statistic...