- The Xbox Series S is
looking very, very real. So it's late, and we've just
seen a absolute avalanche of leaks all over Twitter about the brand new lower-end
version of the Xbox Series X actually named the Xbox Series S. Right now it looks like
we are on November 10th, going to be looking at two brand new next-generation, Xbox consoles. First of all, the one
that we already know, the Xbox Series X looks to
launch at the $500 price point, at least assuming that all of these leaks, which have just absolutely
taken over tonight are true. Now that's an aggressive price point, but we'll talk a little
bit about that later, because what's really exciting
is the Xbox Series S at $299. Yeah, so this next generation
is looking at, look at spicy. So not only are their
photos of this Xbox Series, that's floating around, but there's even a snippet
of why I can only assume as the Microsoft launch
video for the Series S, I'll play it for you now. - [Narrator] See it in its
actual form for the first time and how small it is. It is. - So what this clip
really shows is the size of that Series S. So it is much more akin to
something like the Xbox One S compared to the Series X, which while when you look
at it, besides something like a PlayStation five is actually relatively reasonably sized, but it's a little bit of a thick boy. However, with the Series S,
I'm assuming that they're going to go with a much more
traditional cooling, and therefore they're
going to go for a console, which looks a lot more like
what we're used to seeing. And it's kind of hard to see
from this specific video, the exact dimensions, but inside you're going to be getting a lot of that
next-generation capabilities. So the X box Series S at $299, of course, does have some cutbacks
compared to the full Series X. So first and foremost,
the most obvious thing is going to be the fact that
it will not have a disc drive. Now, this is something
that has been rumored for almost a year, maybe year
and a half at this point. And pretty much from the beginning, it was meant to be almost
like a spiritual successor to the Xbox One S all-digital edition. So while you're giving
up the optical drive, which let's face it,
probably not that important to most of you. And of course, there
is also a PlayStation 5 with no optical drive. But beyond that, there
are a few more cuts. Essentially, this is
meant to be a console, which is focused at 10
ADP and maybe a little bit of 1440 P gaining. Whereas the Series X, if
you want to pay another $200 for it, we'll give you
that full-fat 4k experience with a lot of games running at 120 FPS. So the spec right now seems to indicate that we will be looking at
about a four teraflop GPU on the Series as compared to
12 teraflops on the Series X. However, these aren't
quite apples to apples compared to something like the Xbox One X, which famously had a six teraflop GPU. So there are a few reasons behind this. First of all, a teraflop
is not just a teraflop. You can't actually directly compare them between generations. So there've been a lot
of improvements on the AMD, RDNA 2.0 side on
the very technical level to give you more performance per flop. So I wouldn't be surprised if the graphics are roughly on par with
what we're able to see on the Xbox One X, however, it is going to
be much than pretty much all other aspects. So it very much seems like
it's going to have the same, if not very similar CPU performance. So going from those ancient
slow Jaguars CPU cores on the current generation to much faster, AMD Ryzen based cores
are more specifically Zen 2 based cores. So thanks something
like a current-day rise in seven in performance. On top of that, it will also
of course have a standard SSD. And this is important
just like we have with the Xbox One today, you'll
be able to buy a game once on the Series Series S, Series X, the Xbox Series, I
guess we need to think about the name for this next generation. Anyway, regardless, you'll
be able to buy the same game. And of course, it will run on
Series S as well as Series X, but the main difference
will really be in the actual level of performance. The Series X is very
clearly the more capable of the two consoles, but it's $200 more, or almost double the price. You kind of expect that so
it is of course supporting 4k and 120 FPS and all that kind of stuff. And I'm really going to be
curious to see what the Series S, is actually really able to
be able to kick out, right? I mean, sure it'll 100%
support 4K in theory, right? You'll be able to watch 4K YouTube, and Netflix and everything. But beyond that, the
games, I assume, well, just like the current Xbox One S and One X be able to be upscaled to 4K, right? So if you're playing at 10 ADP or 1440, and of course, because modern
games are really very heavily reliant on dynamic resolution, it likely be kind of in that sort of area. So if you have a 10 ADP display, then I'm sure it'll
look beautiful and clean and honestly, probably not that different than the Xbox Series X. But if you do have a 4K TV, like more and more people are these days, you should still see some advantage over going up to that higher resolution. It absolutely will not
look as clear and crisp, and you may not have
things like 120fsp support like you do on the Series X, but when you look at a
brand new next year console available for $300, I think that is a really, really compelling pitch. Maybe on purely just the
$299 price for the Series S the $499 price for the Series X, these videos, as well as the
November 10th launch date, we also have word that
they will be available with the all-access. Well, let's say subscription, but it's almost like a financing plan. So this is actually
something that is available for the Xbox One right now. So you can pay a small
monthly fee, get the console, and you also get things like
game pass included as well. So this time around it
does seem like they will be offering it, and they'll be offering it at a pretty aggressive price point. So of course, keep in mind,
you can still purchase these consoles outright,
just like you can before. However, supposedly for only $25 a month, you'd be able to purchase
an Xbox Series S console and you will also get that
game pass subscription, which considering that
that's usually 10 to $15 based on which one they include
is actually really not bad. I mean, that's like 15
bucks a month for the Xbox. Now, if you want to go
up to the Xbox Series X, supposedly that will be
available with this subscription. It only $35 a month. Now, of course, there's some questions as far as how this will
actually be implemented. But if you're talking about
the idea these consoles are going to be relatively affordable, I mean, even if you pay full price, but especially if you do the monthly plan. And on top of that, it's
coming with game pass, which comes with lots and
lots of great exclusives, including basically
everything first party. So Flight Simulator, whenever
that shows up on Xbox, Halo, et cetera, et cetera,
will all be included for 25 to $35 a month. That is a really, really compelling price. Now, of course, grain of salts warning, like always, but if this is the case, look, I'm not gonna say
that I think right now, before, especially seeing all
these leaks that I was like, "Oh, of course, Xbox is gonna win." I mean, Sony has a ton of
momentum from the PlayStation 4. The PS5 does look good,
especially the game lineup looks crazy for the PS5. When you start playing
around with these very, what I would say, reasonable prices, very much likely that
they're going to be cheaper than something like the PS5 or
even the PS5 Digital Edition. I think there's a lot of people
who might be a little bit more interested in Xbox
this time around, right? I mean, even if you have
it as a secondary console, you're talking of 25 bucks
a month, 35 bucks a month, or even three to $500. I mean, you consider that these consoles and especially that Xbox
Series X are going to be more powerful than the vast majority of gaming PCs out there. Maybe not on the complete crazy high end, but still this is a
major, major step forward. At $500, I think that's a
pretty reasonable price. I think Sony is going to
be right around that level, give or take $50. But when you look at
something like the Series S I don't think Sony has any
kind of response to it. $300 for a next-generation
console is kind of nuts. And while sure, you're going
to be losing the optical drive, which may or may not be important to you. And of course, you are going to be losing some of that performance,
but if you're able to play these same games with
all the next-gen features and all you're really losing
is a little bit of resolution. I think that's a very,
very reasonable trade especially if you're someone who's leaning on the Sony side of the
fence, you're about ready to go out and buy that PS5. Well, 300 bucks, you can
also get yourself an Xbox and you can really kinda have
the best of both worlds play the Microsoft exclusives, especially the ones that
don't make it too well. I was about to say the ones
that don't make it to PC, but I don't think there's
a lot of those these days. And of course, you still
get all of these Sony games on that PlayStation side
of the camp as well. So anyway, I'm very
excited, but I'm curious. What do you think about the
brand new Xbox Series S? More importantly, are you
gonna buy an Xbox Series S, or an X or PS5 or you're
just gonna save your shekels for an RTX 3090? Don't do that. It seems like a bad idea. Anyway, thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe for
lots more console content like this, and I will catch you
after I finally go to sleep. It's late.