- Hey guys, this is Austin. This is the brand new OnePlus 7 Pro. and the question as
always, is it worth it? So this is the first time
that OnePlus has brought out a Pro version of their phone and there's a lot to like here. Unlike the standard OnePlus 7, which we actually haven't even seen yet, although by the time you watch this video they will most likely have it announced. The Pro version brings a brand new, completely bezel-less display, and we have a new triple camera design, with some really nice features including an incredibly fast display. This is a full 90 hertz
and it looks awesome. It should be no surprise that OnePlus is opting to go for multiple
versions of their flagship. I mean you look around and pretty much everyone
else is doing the same thing. There are like four different
versions of the Galaxy S10, and of course with the iPhone
we have the XR, the XS, as well as the XS Max. And by going up a little
bit on the budget, it means that we get a
lot of extra features on the OnePlus 7 Pro. So one of the most noticeable
ones is the lack of a notch. Instead we have a motorized
pop-up selfie camera, which actually is a pretty
good way of doing it. If you get rid of the selfie camera, you'll see there's
very, very little bezel, just a tiny little bit
of a chin on the bottom, but as soon as you open up that camera, the selfie pops right up. And this is supposedly pretty durable. It's rated for something like
100 or 150,000 operations and if it detects that you're dropping it, it should automatically pull the camera in to avoid any kind of damage. But it seems to be pretty sturdy. I mean I'm not gonna destroy
it or something, but. Speaking of, the screen has
also seen a major improvement. Now first of all, it's big. This is a 6.7 inch panel, which makes the OnePlus 7 Pro even bigger than something like the Galaxy S10 Plus. One of the most noticeable
things here, though, is that not only is it
a higher resolution, but it also runs at a higher
frame rate at a full 90 hertz. Now we've seen this a couple times with some gaming phones
such as the ROG Phone, even a faster display
with the Razer Phone. And this really does
make a huge difference. Everything is so much more smooth. And of course that's been
one of the major advantages of OnePlus for years. They have a very, very
well-optimized software stack, on top of the latest and
greatest on the silicon side, which means that this straight up flies. OnePlus has also taken a
page out of Samsung's book and curved the glass
both on front and back. I mean, if you close your eyes, this basically feels like a Galaxy S10, but that's certainly not a bad thing. Not only does it mean that the OnePlus 7 feels a little bit thinner, but importantly it also means that it just sort of feels
nice when you're scrolling, especially when you're
swiping in from the side. I know that some people don't love this, especially if you're watching a video, it does distort a little bit on the edges, but I'm a huge fan of this. And honestly, this is some
of the nicest hardware that OnePlus has ever put out. It's Gorilla Glass, it's aluminum, and of course you've got
to talk about that color. So it's, actually I forget
what it's called, it's. - Nebula blue.
- Nebula blue, thank you. So nebula blue is sort of an
interesting textured finish that sort of, very much
changes based on the light. Man, I like it. Like I really, really
feel like this is a super, super tight-looking phone. Sadly we don't have a headphone jack, but the hardware is absolutely on point. One of the nice things that I feel like I always appreciate on OnePlus phones is that you have the alert slider. So just like on an iPhone, you can very easily switch
between vibrate, silent, ring, whatever the case is. And I just don't understand
why more people don't do this. Something that returned
from the OnePlus 6T is the in-display fingerprint sensor. Now generally speaking, it
actually is pretty quick, but my main issue, just like with the 6T, is it's just not quite
as accurate as I'd like. So when you compare it to
something like the Pixel or even the Galaxy S10e which has the side-mounted
fingerprint sensor, both of those are not only quicker but more importantly, they
seem to be very, very accurate. This works most of the time, and as always if I'm on camera,
it works 100% of the time, 'cause that's just the way it works, but in normal use, I feel like
one out of maybe 10 times, it doesn't pick up my finger, and that's just not something
that I really deal with with pretty much any
other fingerprint unlock. So the speakers aren't amazing. So it does have a bottom-firing speaker as well as ones built up to
the tiny little earpiece. It's fine, I mean it's certainly not bad. But it does not compare to
phones such as the iPhone, such as the Pixel. It's just decent. And of course we still
don't have a headphone jack, which after taking a look at the Pixel 3a, kinda it's got me nostalgic, it's got me wishing for
that headphone jack back. One of the main reasons
OnePlus has been popular is they put very high performance specs and very well optimized software in a package which generally
speaking doesn't cost a ton. So inside here we have the
absolute top of the line as far as Android goes right now. So you have a Snapdragon 855, anywhere between six, eight
or even 12 gigs of RAM. Now 12 gigs of RAM might seem excessive. I mean it's on, that's more
than most laptops have. But realistically, it
actually makes a lot of sense, specifically on the OnePlus 7 Pro. If you look at the price
difference to go from six gigs to 12 gigs and
to double the storage, it's less than $100. That, that is an incredibly good deal. I know some people might be upset that, oh, the OnePlus
is more expensive now. Considering that you're
getting a 12 gig of RAM, a Snapdragon 855 flagship
for less than $800. I mean, yeah. - [Ken] For less than $1000. - That's actually a great point,
even less than $1000, yeah. It is so hard to argue with the value proposition
on this phone, right? I mean sure, if you wanna go and make sure that you
save every penny you can, you can drop the nice display and go down to something
like the OnePlus 7, but considering that you get the awesome screen with 90 hertz, again, I can't really
emphasize that enough, just how smooth that is, paired with these super, super
reasonable upgrades, right? I mean as long as you're
okay with the blue color, because I think, like previous years, the blue color is the only way to get the maxed out
version like I have here, but I mean, it's only $90
to go from the bottom spec, to double every single
aspect of the phone. RAM, SSD, everything. I mean that's, that's pretty killer. I'm legitimately impressed. Take a look around back, and the OnePlus 7 Pro now has
a new triple-camera array. So very much like some
other 2019 flagships, this gives you a ultra wide-angle lens with a 17 millimeter equivalent. You have a 48 megapixel standard shooter, and there's also now a
new triple optical zoom, which will give you roughly
a 78 millimeter lens, or again three times the optical zoom that you would get with
the standard shooter. All this being said, this is actually a really nice benefit because some of the
previous OnePlus phones had a depth sensor as a secondary camera, which is code for not useful. So the camera, honestly, has
been one of the main downsides of a lot of previous OnePlus phones. It's never really been bad, but it's certainly not been as good as something like the Google Pixel or even like a lot of the iPhones. But this year they've actually
stepped it up in a big way. And first of all it is
legitimately really nice to have this spread of cameras. So,the ultra wide-angle camera can get you a nice field of view and while it's not the
sharpest thing in the world, all you do is jump into
that 48 megapixel shooter, which to be fair does actually say that as a 12 megapixel shot, it just takes each sort of pixel and combines four pixels into one. But even so, you're actually getting some nice image quality here, and then when you zoom all the way into the three times optical zoom, it actually gives you a very
different field of view. And this is something
that I really appreciate. Most phones, such as the Samsung
and especially the iPhone, they have a 2X optical
zoom, and while that's nice, it doesn't really give me that same kind of zoom that I'd like. Whereas with the 3X optical zoom, it actually properly gives
you, it's a very unique look. So if we put the OnePlus 7
side by side with the Pixel, what you'll see is that it actually does a little bit more of an aggressive job. It's sort of boosting the shadows, so it's a little bit more HDR. But also the colors are
very much washed out. Photos here consistently look a little bit sort of desaturated, maybe. Now that's not going to be
necessarily a bad thing, if you wanna edit it. But I definitely have to say, the Pixel images do pop a lot more. Now if you put something like this side by side with the iPhone, especially when you get into lower light, it makes a huge difference, as the Pixel as well as the OnePlus do have some sort of night-sight mode. So the OnePlus calls it Nightscape, and while it's not quite as good as what you're getting on the Pixel, again, when you put it next
to something like the iPhone, it makes a big difference. My main complaint here is that they do just look a little
bit sort of artificial, there's a little bit too
much processing going on to make it look like a natural image, which is something that
the Pixel excels with. All that being said, though, the camera is a huge
step up on the OnePlus 7. No, it's not quite as good
as something like the Pixel, but because you do have the triple lenses and because all three of
them are fairly competent, it does mean that the OnePlus 7 no longer has the camera
as its Achilles' heel. Achilles' keel? The OnePlus 7 Pro is the most expensive OnePlus they've ever made, and yet I think it does a good job of justifying that price tag. In a world of $1000 plus flagships, this delivers a very,
very similar performance but for several hundred dollars less. My main piece of advice really here is get the maxed out model. For only $90, you're
getting double the storage and double the RAM. And when you consider
what this kind of phone is for less than 800 bucks, I mean, there's really not
a lot to complain about. And that is sort of the definition of being worth it, isn't it? (soft music)