When you run a new utility line, whether it
be electrical, gas, water, sewer, or communications, you basically have two choices for where to
put it: overhead strung across poles, or below the ground. Today we’re talking about that second one,
subsurface utilities. I’m Grady and this is What’s that Infrastructure,
where we divulge and discover the manmade world around us, and below us too. There are all kinds of utility lines running
beneath our feet under roads, sidewalks, buildings, and property connecting resources to the people
who use them or in the case of sewers, carrying wastes away from people so we don't get sick. There are distinct advantages to running utilities
below the ground: for one, it’s often the cheaper solution when compared to other options,
also, subsurface utilities are hidden so they’re less likely to be vandalized or detract from
a place's appearance, and finally they’re protected from weather like freezing temperatures
and high winds. We have just about every resource you can
think of running in subsurface utilities, including electricity, oil and natural gas,
water, sewage, telecommunications and many more. Here’s a couple of underground utilities
that you don’t see as often. Tero from Finland sent in this photo of an
automated vacuum waste collection system in Helsinki. He said it’s basically a packet switched
network for trash bags, since each of these collection points feed to the same underground
vacuum pipe. And Stephen from Pennsylvania sent in another
one you don’t see often. These pipe are part of a snow melt system
which will run a warm liquid to prevent this sidewalk from icing up during the winter. Speaking of winter, Andrew from Newark sent
in this photo of a hydrant with a long pole attached. During the snowy season, the plows clearing
the roads pile up huge banks of snow covering up the hydrants. In the event of an emergency, the hydrant can quickly
be identified by this marker and uncovered from the snow so that firefighters don’t
have to search for it. As our urban subsurface gets more and more
crowded with underground utilities, the possibility of conflicts or damaging an existing line
increases. Surprisingly enough, there is no clearinghouse
of information documenting the location of all subsurface utilities, at least in the
US. And the dangers and potential costs associated
with damaging something like a water line or fiber optic cable are so high, that an
entire new field of engineering has emerged just to manage the risks: Subsurface Utility
Engineering (or just SUE for short). SUE specialists use a handful of methods to
identify and locate subsurface utilities. Many public works projects rely on SUE data
to avoid conflicts with underground utilities during construction. A SUE survey can be as simple as drawing a
straight line between manholes but many utility location surveys involve sophisticated investigation
techniques like vacuum excavation and even ground penetrating radar. You’ve probably seen these cryptic spray
paint marks locating utilities after a SUE survey. In fact, the symbols and colors used are fairly
standardized by country. Here’s a photo Doug from Sacramento sent
in of a SUE survey locating a combined streetlight and communications conduit below a sidewalk. Some jurisdictions are requiring buried utilities
to include sophisticated new identification systems. Adam sent in these photos of an RFID utility
marker in Slovakia. This marker gets buried with the utility lines
so that they can be accurately located if someone ever needs to dig here again. Utilities below the ground sometimes need
access to air, usually to avoid the buildup of pressure. Sanitary sewer systems are meant to flow by
gravity, so if the pipes are properly vented, they work better, just like venting
a bottle will allow it to pour more quickly. This is a manhole vent sent in by Joel. If the top of the manhole is below the floodplain,
a riser pipe is often required to make sure the line is vented even during flooding conditions. Most gas stations store gasoline in underground
tanks below the pumps. The tanks need vents so that they don’t
pressurize during the heat of the day, so they also have vent pipes like these sent
in by Jaron from Lincoln Nebraska. Here’s a few more vent pipes sent in by
Marty from Vancouver, but he wasn’t sure what specifically they were venting. Speaking of things that I can’t identify,
here’s a couple more. If you know what they are, let us know in
the comments. Timon sent in this photo of a pipe that isn’t
subsurface at all, but is actually running overhead on poles in Berlin. Pipes carrying liquids are rarely placed above
ground in areas that can freeze. That and the lifting hooks on the concrete
blocks make me think this is a temporary installation of some kind. Finally, Bert sent in this photo from a beach
in Belgium. This is obviously an intake screen, but I
have no idea what would be drawing sea water this close to the shore, or why it would be
installed above the low tide. Put a comment if you think you know. Thanks again to everyone who sent in photos. It makes me really happy to discover that
so many people are interested in videos about infrastructure, and it is really encouraging
to receive so many enthusiastic emails. If you’ve got a picture you’d like to
share, send it in to Whats.That.Infrastructure@gmail.com. Make sure you mention that it’s okay for
me to use in a video, and include your mailing address. Because if I use your photo in a video, I’ll
send you a Practical Engineering sticker. I’ve got some very cool videos in the works,
so if you like this kind of stuff, subscribe to the channel. Have a great new year, and as always, thank
you for watching, and let me know what you think.