I was recently in Antwerp, Belgium 
for IMEC's event ITF World 2024. IMEC is widely known as the semiconductor 
industry's watering hole, a neutral ground   where all the animals on the Savannah can 
get together to work on major problems. One reason why I attended the show 
- and I paid my own way there - was   because I have never been to this part 
of Europe before. It was fun visiting. Another is to learn about the 
state of leading edge research in   semiconductors and what people have 
been working on and thinking about. In this video, I want to share a 
bit of that. What I am hearing,   and a reflection on the show in general. ## 40 Years The show opened with a series 
of headlining presentations. 2024 marks 40 years since IMEC's founding   in 1984. So I feel like they put 
particular effort into this one. I was at the Gala dinner - where 
I met a few friends of the show. The dinner was set in an impressive 
location and we were treated to a   very fun dance show. I wonder how much it cost. And for the information sessions, IMEC got 
some very prestigious people to come out to   Belgium to present. It is a demonstration of 
IMEC's stature within the overall industry. There were these booths with teams 
demonstrating new technologies. I   only got a chance to talk to a few 
of them - much of them seemed to   have involved medicine or biology - but the 
teams I did get to talk to were impressive. Alright let’s talk about 
some takeaways from the show. ## Context The great context of the show from people 
is that we are in a new era of scaling. During the 1980s and 1990s, the industry was 
spoiled by rich gains from lithography. It   was easy to shrink the designs because 
we just switched to a new wavelength.   This was so effective that it drowned 
out many other alternatives to scaling. But then in early 2000s, we got 193 
nanometer lithography and progress   down the wavelength ladder massively slowed 
down to a turtle’s crawl. Intel and others   chased 157 nanometers for a while but that 
never made it to high volume production. But even as the industry was going through that,   they knew in the back of their mind that 
there was another wavelength coming: EUV. Now, EUV is here. It has been running 
for several years and it is now a mature   technology. But nobody is credibly talking 
about doing another wavelength in the future. Without the biggest arrow in the 
quiver, we need to find other ways   to achieve scaling. Nothing will ever 
be as good as what we had back then. But as the song goes: You 
can’t always get what you want,   but if you try sometimes you get what you need. ## Advanced Packaging is Real But ... Advanced packaging is a real thing. There are   substantial products out there 
and that is a major advancement. There are also substantial flaws that we need to 
review and engineer our way around. A traditional   silicon die is on a single plane. It’s all there 
for you to look at, inspect, and dissipate heat.   2.5D integration where you put things on top 
of a silicon interposer keeps a lot of that. But 3D integration is where people want to 
go. And we are not ready to handle the heat   and inspection problems associated with that. 
Multiple people I talked to mentioned this. I   stumbled across a few companies trying 
to solve the problem but it is early. For this reason as well as the fact 
that heterogenous integration adds   substantial complexity, the industry 
largely holds that it can only be one   tool amidst a bunch of others to help 
make better chips. It is not a panacea. ## Machine Learning is Hitting 
Semiconductor Manufacturing The AI Boom remains a thing. It is often mentioned 
as a significant demand driver for the industry. However people here in Europe do not seem 
to be as "scale-pilled" as they are in the   Silicon Valley. Whether it has to do with 
their focus on social issues or privacy or   because it is all happening far away from them, 
I can feel more pessimism from the people here. Setting that aside however, it is also 
undeniable that machine learning will   continue to revolutionize and open new 
avenues for semiconductor manufacturing. Machine learning is already responsible 
for turning Optical Proximity Corrections   from simple logical tickmarks that we add to 
the design into what is essentially abstract   art. That sort of work will continue 
to bleed in, though I doubt that any   foundry will be using GPT-5 or something 
due to a general air of conservatism. ## Going Green Maybe it is because we are in Europe, but 
sustainability is a major discussion point here. There are two big themes within this space that 
caught my eye. First, because semiconductor   manufacturing is so energy intensive, it is 
responsible for a great deal of carbon emissions.   Fabs run 24/7, which means they have to draw a 
lot of power and from carbon-intensive sources. For this reason, IMEC estimates that semiconductor 
manufacturing - work done after the wafer is   created - is more carbon-intensive than 
beef production or even flight travel. But those are just estimates. 
The key thing is that we do not   have any information since semiconductor 
companies are so unwilling to share data. So IMEC is working on a cryptological platform 
that lets those guys confidentially share   information that we can manipulate and compare 
without actually revealing it. Its applications   are not necessarily carbon or semiconductor 
specific, but are nevertheless intriguing. Second, something more recently appearing in 
my field of view. The semiconductor industry   has been paying more attention to "forever 
chemicals" or PFAS. Companies like ASML are   starting to drill down into their supply chain 
to learn about their exposure to these chemicals. This is not just a European thing, a great policy 
paper published by ChinaTalk mentioned this as   well - presenting it as a commercial 
opportunity for the US CHIPS Act's new   semiconductor R&D institute - the National 
Semiconductor Technology Center or NSTC. By the way, I wish they had a 
different name for the NSTC. Between Taiwan's National Science and Technology 
Council, The US's NIST - the National Institute   of Standards and Technology - and NTSC - 
a video format standard - it is confusing. At least Sematech had "sem" in the name. Anyway, with regards to semiconductors and 
the PFAS or forever chemicals in particular,   there are two major concerns. First has 
to do with photoresist - the very special   chemicals that are exposed to ultraviolet light 
in order to transfer the pattern onto the wafer. These basically use PFAS in huge quantities,   and are absolutely fundamental to 
the semiconductor process. So for   a long time, this was a major and seemingly 
insurmountable roadblock to PFAS elimination. However, there has been some recent 
new developments. The emergence of   new EUV photoresists like Metal Oxide 
Resists present the first possible   alternatives to the old compounds. So 
there are some glimmers of hope there. But then we have the second point 
- the fact that these chemicals are   extraordinarily prevalent. We use them 
in everything. There are many dozens   of chemicals in this category. They are 
literally everywhere and removing them   means having to make difficult choices 
because there are few alternatives. I think this topic deserves a more complete video   down the line. I hope to work 
on something like this later. The semiconductor industry is making these moves 
because they apparently feel like that government   regulators might do something about this down 
the line. So organizations like the SIA are   starting to collect information on this, 
perhaps to build a roadmap down the line. ## Hyper-NA Might Be a Thing Former ASML President and CTO Martin 
Van Den Brink gave a short but very   dense and informative speech about lithography. It will require a lot of processing 
which has to be done later but something   I noticed is how he happened to 
slip Hyper-NA EUV near the end. With High-NA EUV, the NA is 0.55. With Hyper-NA 
EUV, the NA again rises to 0.75. Last year,   van den Brink had asked a few questions 
about the technology in an interview, saying: > Theoretically, it can be done. 
Technologically, it can be done.   But how much room is left in the market for even 
larger lenses? Could we even sell those systems? But here we are now at this presentation 
and van den Brink is putting Hyper-NA EUV   on the roadmap to come out in 2032 
about eight or nine years from now.   Maybe it's just a final troll since he's retiring. I agree that it can be done. 
There is nothing stopping ASML   from putting a Hyper-NA EUV system 
out there. I really do worry just   how economically feasible it is to 
ratchet up the NA again and again. But - and this is something I 
have been hearing many times   during this trip - the other options 
are not that great. There is no other   option for optical lithography. 13.5 
nanometers is the end of the line. Perhaps we should start re-evaluating 
electron beam projection lithography,   electron beam direct 
lithography, or something else? Ok on to the next topic. ## Photonics is Hot But ... I talked to a lot of people who are working 
in the silicon photonics space here. One thing that I keep hearing again and again 
is that the industry still needs to find the   technology's killer app to build up volume 
and stimulate more research in the ecosystem. Kind of like how the emergence of mobile 
smartphones and their need for skinnier   SOC packages stimulated investment in what we 
now call chip-scale packaging technologies. People seem to think that there might be 
"something" in the interconnect space. And   indeed light is a less lossy and more power 
efficient way of delivering communications   signals. And there is industry precedence 
in light replacing copper. But again,   nothing so far. Either the 
R&D or demand isn't there yet. Perhaps TSMC's recent continued 
investments in their Photonic   Engine technology COUPE might 
crack the nut? We shall see. ## The EU CHIPS Act News came out during the show about some 
money - like $2-3 billion - allocated by   the EU CHIPS Act to various research labs 
for advanced semiconductor development.   IMEC of course will receive some of that money. The EU CHIPS Act has not received the same 
amount of attention that the US CHIPS Act   or the major policy initiatives 
in Korea, Japan and China have. There have been a mix of reactions from 
the people I talked to. More than a few   are skeptical. For instance, there is a broad 
recognition that Europe does not host many of   the major demand drivers like mobile phones or 
data centers - other than automotive of course. On other hand. There are a few people who 
realize that, but nevertheless insist that   we still should build advanced semiconductor 
fabs for national security reasons. Europe   is already spending a lot of money on 
things. Why not semiconductors too? Deciding whether or not Europe should 
spend billions of dollars of taxpayer   money on semiconductor manufacturing is beyond my   pay grade. But the division 
of opinions is fascinating. ## Conclusion I want to thank IMEC and my helper Jade 
for the opportunity to attend the show.   They were great hosts during 
my visit the next day as well. I also want to thank the various people I was 
able to meet while I was there. I felt like I   was constantly meeting new people. And though I 
wanted to have deeper conversations with them,   we all too quickly had to move on. 
I apologize for the brusqueness. A few people hag on Europe for a seeming lack of 
semiconductor progress. But from my perspective,   Europe is doing very well on the 
technology and research side. I   got to see a whole lot of really smart 
people work on really far-out there tech. Much of this stuff will never see the light 
of day. But that is why we have nonprofits,   universities, and grad students working 
on that stuff and not expensive R&D   personnel. Part of learning what 
works is learning what does not.