- Hey guys,
this is Austin and this is the cheapest gaming PC we've
ever built at just under $300. Let's put this thing together and see how it actually performs. And huge shout out to LastPass
for sponsoring this video. If you guys have watched
the channel for a while, you know that I've been
using LastPass for years since way before they ever
actually sponsored a video. Now, LastPass really
is the single spot that you can keep all of your
passwords not only safe but also secure so you just don't have
to worry about them anymore. With LastPass you never need
to write down, remember, or reset another password. They're all kept safe and
secure in the LastPass vault. And the best part is, is that
it would generate a unique and secure password for
every single site you visit. Which is especially helpful
if you're one of those people who uses the same password
for every single site you use. John. - [Ken] What? - LastPass will auto-fill your passwords across your computer as well
as your phone, where it works not only on websites
but also inside of apps. On top of that, LastPass has some great two factor authentication options. Including support for the
YubiKey, which is what I use on my personal account. If you're not already
using LastPass to keep your passwords and logins safe and
secure, definitely be sure to go check it out in the
link in the description. And of course, huge shout out to LastPass for sponsoring this video. Now let's go build a PC. If you remember the very
first $300 Bose one we did, it was taking advantage
of an AMD Athlon processor so it's only fitting
that this new version has a much much newer version. The Athlon 200GE. Unlike older Athlons,
this is taking advantage of the newer Ryzen architecture. So inside we have two Zen cores, which are clocked at 3.2 gigahertz. They do support hyper threading. As well as important though, we also have AMD Vega graphics built in. Mind you, its Vega three so
it's about the smallest version of Vega you can get but
this is a big step up over those earlier Athlon's
and actually should give us enough performance for gaming. I hope so. It's a $55 processor so... Backing it up, we have eight gigabytes of Corsair Vengeance LPX RAM. Now what's important about
this is that any time you're using something with
integrated graphics such as the Athlon 200GE you
want to give it as much memory bandwidth as possible,
which is why we're going with dual channel memory. And while eight gigs isn't
a ton, especially for such a cheap system that's less than $300, it should be just fine. Everything is going inside
the Gigabyte A320M-S2H. Now this is a very cheap
motherboard but importantly, because we are based on
the newer Ryzen chipset, we actually have a lot of
the higher end features. So not only will this
support our Athlon processor but you could go all the
way up to something like a Ryzen 72700X if you
ever wanted to upgrade, although that might be
a slightly ambitious upgrade but we do have support for DDR4 and importantly an M.2 SSD. That's important because we're using a 128 gigabyte 88 into SSD. Now first of all an SSD
is always faster than a standard mechanical hard drive. One of the nice things
about budget builds is that this is actually cheaper
than a full hard drive. And with only 128 gigs of capacity, it's not going to be great
but definitely should be enough to install a few
games and get us up and running. Again, this computer's
all about getting us ready to go right now with plenty
of upgrade potential later. Like buying a hard drive, or more memory, or a graphics card, or a better processor. All these things are
possible at some point. But not today. When you build a budget
computer, there are a lot of ways you can cut corners and
save a little bit of money. One area you shouldn't cut corners on is with the power supply. So this is a 450 watt
EVGA 80 plus bronze unit. Now the 80 plus is important. Yes you could save
probably like 15, 20 bucks by getting a cheap
Diablo tech power supply. And it would work for like
15 minutes if you building a backpack PC but for
something that's actually going to last you a few years, and
importantly give you a little bit of upgrade capacity in the
future, going with something that's a little bit high
quality is definitely worth the few extra dollars that it costs. So what I liked about this case
case is, like I was saying, it actually has some features,
which is not always a given when you spend a very very
small amount of money on a case. So with this guy we do get
an 80 millimeter exhaust fan. And it also has a full USB 3.0 port. A single one but you
know, USB three is nice on a very very cheap case. Look at this. We even have a little
dust filter on the bottom, which is actually not
super important because the power supply is on the
top but OK I'll take that. I like just how ridiculously
light weight this case is. So we do have our USB
3.0 port on the side. You also do have a pair
of USB twos on the front. And once we get the motherboard in, we'll have a few more around the back. I'm guessing that would
open up our optical drive if we had one but in
true cheap PC fashion, instead of an optical drive,
that's where we're gonna stuff all our extra
cables that we don't need. So I've actually built a
system in this case before, and it is a little bit
tight but it's not too bad. One of the nice things is that
it is a full micro ATX case. Which means you're going to
save a little bit of room on your desk or underneath your desk or where ever you wanna put it. The main issue here is that
there's basically no room around back for cable management
but for a system like this especially concerning how basic it is, I think we'll be just fine. Now I'm not doing a full PC
build tutorial in this video. If you guys wanna check that
out we do one every year and I'll link in the description
as well as on a card. But the system itself
actually should be pretty easy to put together. One of the nice things about
this is because it is so cheap there are very few components. It's not really that difficult
to work inside the case. Basically what I'm
saying is that if this is the very first time you've
ever built a computer it is hard to go wrong
with something like this. It as about as simple as it gets. I'm actually kind of excited to see just how well this performs. So we did take a look at the Ryzen three and the Ryzen five chips
with integrated graphics a little bit earlier this year and they were impressive but they're also like, double the price of this. Mind you, this is like, half the CPU cores and less than half the GPU
but considering we can build this entire system for less than $300, I really just wanna see,
how good is it really? Also wow that is some incredibly
well applied thermal paste. You see that? Look how perfect it is. I feel bad about ruining it. Squash. Because RAM is so expensive
these days, the eight gigs of RAM is actually the most
expensive part of this build. Now you could get away with four. Especially if you're
not really trying to do all that much gaming, you'd be just fine. But considering that I actually
wanna have enough RAM to you know, open up a couple tabs in Chrome and also play a game of Fortnite. I feel like eight gigs
is a worthy investment. And the nice thing about this
board is that even though it's not really super simple to upgrade, since you only have two dim
slots, you could, in theory, bump this up to 16 gigs later
once RAM prices eventually, you know, come back down to earth. So if we screw our SSD into place, we're actually almost done. This is a very simple build. All that's left now is
to put the motherboard inside the case, get everything wired up, and we can actually see how well our awesome $300 system performs. Or how not awesome it performs. A little bit of cable
management, installing Windows, and a couple of software updates later, let's see how the actual system performs. The spiritual successor to Boson. So to start out with we have
the good old classic Cinebench. Now this is not an
incredibly powerful system, with only a dual core Ryzen based CPU, as well as those Vega three graphics, but, well I have to benchmark
things cause that's what I do. And not too bad, so we've
got 122 in single core and 355 on the multi core. Now the only issue with
these Athlon chips, I mean I guess there's a
couple, is there is really no over clocking capability,
unlike the Ryzen chips. But because this is a full
desktop processor, we look like we're pretty much running at
3.2 gigahertz across the board. 1322, so definitely not
setting the world on fire. But again this is better
than the equivalent Intel integrated graphics. Getting into a real game we have CS:GO. Now on medium settings at 1080p we've got somewhere between 50 to 60 fps. If we wanna go a little bit higher, we turn the settings down. But this is pretty playable. Just stay still. Stay still, I'll get you. (button clicking) Damn, alright. Wow we all died together. (laughter) So Fortnite does run. It's at 720p medium settings but we do get a pretty respectable 35 frames per second. I would love to show you
Overwatch but for some reason when I actually try to open the game, even though it's running here, it just turns off the monitor. Like legitimately just
turns the whole thing off. I can Alt tab back in and
Windows pops right up. Nothing is crashing just the
monitor doesn't like Overwatch. Yeah there we go. Hamster (mumbles) wins again. So Overwatch is actually kinda playable. Now mind you we are
running it on low settings and its at 75% scale at 1080p,
which is I think roughly 1600 by 900-ish if my math is right. But yes, totally playable. We're getting about 40
frames per second or so. Next up we have Call of Duty Black Ops 4. A game which should not be
able to run on this system. But I'm going to try anyway. Yup yup yup yup. (mumbles) or whatever. Yeah yeah yeah that's fine. Low low low low low off off
off off off off low low off off off off off off off off. Perfect, that sound exactly
like what we need right now. (chuckle) Based on the 12 frames
per second loading screen, I don't have high hopes right now. I don't think it's gonna work. The problem with Black Ops is, it actually just needs too much RAM. So in addition to having
CPU memory we also have to keep in mind the graphics is sharing that same eight gigs of RAM. So when you combine all together, Black Ops is just not being cooperative. So I guess it's reasonable
since that it very specifically told me in the beginning
that it was not gonna work. But I wanted to try it anyway. So that, my friends, is the
cheapest gaming PC we've built in a very very long time. As always, links to check
out all this stuff will be in the description.