- Hey guys, this is Austin. And today I'm here at CES with
a little bit of a sneak peek at what LG has cooking up. Not only were they awesome
enough to sponsor this video, but importantly, they
gave me a badge to get in a whole day early, so I can explore before everyone else gets here, shhh. So if you look behind me, you might notice the star of the show. This is the LG Signature OLED TV R. The R stands for rollable,
as these are well, completely flexible OLEDs. So there are a couple
components to the TV. First of all, is the stand
which does come with it, but above that, that is
the actual main base. So you can see as the TV rolls out, it's all sort of coiled up inside, and there's a really cool mechanism that actually sort of, pulls the TV up and keeps it straight. Now you might think, oh
look at that rollable TV, you're gonna notice some sort of picture quality issues or anything, but just like with the wallpaper TV, it looks exactly like the other
OLEDs with the added benefit of being able to disappear
when you don't wanna watch TV. So you might wonder, why exactly do you want
a TV that can roll up? Well if you imagine if you put
it in front of say a window, you could roll it all the
way down and have essentially just a nice piece of furniture, and when you're ready to watch TV, you hit a single button and the TV springs to life, rolls to life, animates to life... I'm out
of synonyms and adjectives. So in addition to full view,
which is the TV extended, you also can use what's
known as line view. And this gives you about
75% of the TV rolled up, so it's much smaller, and in that case you can put up things like
the gallery, listen to music, or you can just completely hide the TV, and the speaker does still function. Now as you might expect, we don't exactly have a price on this guy, although it won't come cheap. But it actually will be
coming out this year. Now if that's not crazy enough for you, I think this definitely will be. This is an 88 inch, 8K OLED. Yes, you heard me right. It's an 88 inch, 8K OLED. I want one. Every year at CES there are a ton of TVs, and usually they get better and better, but this is hands down
the best looking panel I have ever seen, like full stop. So of course, OLEDs already
have great picture quality. When you combine that
with a full 8K resolution, I mean, it is ridiculous. You cannot see pixels unless you're like, really uncomfortably close. This is legitimately my dream TV. Right, it's massive. This is the biggest
OLED they've ever made. Even watching this video, you can watch it in 4K all you want, you cannot see just how sharp,
just how crisp this TV is. Now it is very early days for 8K, there's really not a lot
of 8K content out there. So YouTube is actually
one of the few platforms that does already support 8K, so you will be able to watch
8K videos straight on the TV. But on top of that, it
does support HDMI 2.1. Actually you know I've never
really thought about it, we've never uploaded a video in 8K, but theoretically we could upload it and watch them all on our 8K OLED. Right LG? Now, if that's not enough 8K for you, there's also a brand new NanoCell 8K TV. And the main difference here-- Ohhhh! - Sorry. (censor beep) - If that's not enough 8K for you, there's also the 8K NanoCell TV. This creates OLED for LCD, and you have to go down
to a mere 75 inches, as if that was not
already enormous enough. But the main thing here
is that you still get all of those key upgrades
with going to 8K. Moving into a slightly darker environment, we have the LG Cinebeam HU85L. Now this is their latest
ultra short throw projector, and at a full 120 inches, this looks nice. Now we are at a pretty bright show floor. Usually you wanna watch a projector in a little bit of a darker environment, but this is surprisingly bright. Of course, it is a full 4K
projector, and importantly, it is a dual laser projector as well. When I say ultra short throw, I mean it. You get a full 120 inch display
from only 7 inches away. What's cool about this,
is that the unit itself is actually still fairly compact. I know it's not quite as portable as the last Cinebeam
that we took a look at, but if you're doing a
proper home theater set up, full 4K, plenty of brightness, this is a really good way of going. Now when it comes to audio, there's a couple really cool things here, and most noticeably
there's the SL9 Soundbar. So on one hand, you can
actually wall mount it and have it completely flat, or if you wait for it to actually come up, you also could do it in
a standard orientation like you would normally put on a table. What's cool about this, is
that it does take advantage of Dolby Atmos as well. But it's really cool to be
able to have a single soundbar which can serve multiple functions depending on how you want to use it. In case you're curious, it sadly does not come with
a full, motorized wall mount. (cheerful music) Is that how you do an audio demo? Continuing down that audio side, we have a series of XBOOM speakers. And first of all, we have the small guys, so these are the XBOOM Go. (upbeat music) Yeah, there we go. So on the XBOOM Go side,
the PK7, the 5 and the 3 are all available on sale right now. On top of that, we also do
have the AI side of things. So these both take advantage
of Google Assistant. So this is actually something we've already taken a look at in the past, but this is the one that
has the full smart display with Google Assistant. - [Austin on device]
Hey guys, this is Austin. The LG gram was one of my
favorite laptops of 2017. - The idea that you have the display does make Google Assistant
a lot more useful, and on top of that, it
sounds pretty solid as well. It sounds pretty solid as well. I like when my voice cracks
in the video, oh boy. There's also a pair of brand
new LG grams this year. So not only does the 14
come in a 2 in 1 form factor, but there's also now a 17 inch gram. Considering that you have
a full 17 inch display, with a 2560 by 1600 resolution, the fact that this laptop
weighs less than 3 pounds is incredibly impressive. Now, if we walk a little
bit over to this side, we have the gram 2 in 1. So what's cool about this,
is of course you can use it in the standard laptop mode, or you can flip it around and take advantage of
it being a full 2 in 1. Now if you wanna know more about the gram, we're actually going to be doing a lot more on this very
soon, so stay tuned, and with that, I think we're
about to get kicked out. Like, literally everything's
turning off around us. So that my friends is a sneak peek at what LG has at CES this year. If you're interested in
anything that I talked about, I'll have links to as much of it as I can in the description. And stay tuned, we might just get a couple things in the
office for some videos. (censor beep) It's legitimately time to leave, they're shutting
everything down around us.