Nearly 400 years ago, the Dutch East India Company 
landed on the island of Formosa and set up shop.   They hunted deer, grew rice, 
and fought the aborigines.   In 1662, the Ming loyalist Koxinga besieged 
the now-tourist spot of Fort Zeelandia,   ejected the Dutch, and established 
the anti-Qing Kingdom of Formosa. I am not quite sure why I brought this 
up except to say that the Dutch have had   long ties to Formosa. These ties 
continue to today with Taiwan   and the Netherlands having consistently 
collaborated in the electronics industry. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, TSMC, 
is today the world's leading independent foundry.   But they would have never even gotten 
started without the help received from Dutch   multinational Philips in those critical early 
years. This video is about that shared history. Philips is a Dutch multinational corporation 
headquartered in Amsterdam. The company currently   named Philips now focuses on the health industry 
but it had once been the biggest electronics   firm in the world. The company has produced and 
introduced some of the most iconic electronic   devices in history. Items like the Compact Disc 
format. And it was a big early investor in Taiwan. The exploitation of East Asian resources 
and labor by European companies   is a common thing with roots dating back to 
the mid-1800s. Stimulated by the spread of   European imperialism, these companies 
sought access to the riches of Asia. After the end of World War II, Philips 
moved back to the Netherlands after   its founding Philips family fled the 
country to escape the Nazi invasion.   The war and its proceeding years had 
seen huge changes in the world paradigm. Philips had a few lamp and radio 
factories in Indonesia, India, and Malaya,   but those factories were 
nationalized in the 1950s.   The nationalizations reduced Philips' Asia 
presence to a couple joint ventures in Japan. Despite this, the company 
pondered re-entering East   Asia in the 1960s - following a trend 
of Western companies outsourcing their   manufacturing operations to East Asia to 
take advantage of the cheaper labor there.   Hong Kong had been a leader in this operation and 
was once the world's biggest electronics exporter. Taiwan's economy at the time was 
largely agricultural and low-technology,   wood products and textiles and 
rubber goods. But government wanted   to change that and tried to 
find partners to make it so. The Taiwanese Government reached out 
to Philips about investing in Taiwan   in the 1950s. Taiwan had recently 
established an office in Rotterdam,   looking for partners to help found an 
electronics industry on the island. At the government's invitation,   CEO Frits Philips visited Taiwan himself 
to scout for investment opportunities. Frits was an interesting guy. The only member of 
the Philips family to remain in the Netherlands,   he is credited for saving 382 Jews during 
the Nazi occupation and is recognized as   a Righteous Amongst the Nations for his 
actions. He also lived to a hundred, wow. The decision to invest in Taiwan over other 
areas in East Asia like Japan was not obvious.   There were very real reasons 
against it. So why did they do so? The first had to do with labor 
cost and stability. Wages were   rising around the world, but not 
in Taiwan. Yet at the same time,   the Taiwanese were highly educated due to the 
work done during the Japanese colonial era. As for labor stability, the Nationalist government 
had made it clear that they were not willing to   brook any labor unrest. Taiwan island was in the 
midst of the White Terror during this period.   Things seemed to be peaceful, but Philips failed 
to see the turmoil and suffering beneath that.   From the capitalist perspective, all was well.   That's a sad thing, considering Frits’ background 
during the War. He should have known better. Second, Philips did not succeed in Japan. They 
had a few joint ventures there, but the Japanese   partner was firmly in charge of those. The 
country had recovered from World War II,   but by then Philips had sensed that the 
market's opportunities was closed to them. Third was the China factor. The 
Nationalist government believed   that they would take back the mainland, and prior 
to China acquiring the nuclear bomb, it seemed   possible. Philips thought that having a toehold 
in Taiwan first would give them an advantage if   either the KMT succeeded in its invasion or 
relations warmed with the Communist Party. And lastly, the KMT government 
was extremely friendly to Philips.   The company's management was 
impressed by ministers like KT   Li, who promised that he would be able to cut 
any red tape that Philips would come across.   A free trade zone in Kaohsiung would be created 
for the company as actions backing their words. And lastly, the government appealed to CEO Frits 
himself. Chiang Kai-shek awarded Frits Philips   the Order of the Brilliant Star of the Republic 
of China. Frits of course wasn't entirely swayed   by this, but he came to see a reason for investing 
in Taiwan that was not entirely economic-based. He   wanted to invest in a developing country and 
help Taiwan in its anti-communist struggle. He came back home and pushed through the 
investment of a Taiwanese light bulb factory.   The immediate success of this investment would 
lead to a television picture tube factory   and more. By 1971, Philips Taiwan would be the 
single largest foreign investor in the country,   and the second largest overall after 
the venerable Taitung Corporation. After the tepid success of United Microelectronics 
Corporation, the government decided to give the   semiconductor industry another try with 
a company called TSMC. CEO Morris Chang   envisioned a company that would utilize 
the island's relative manufacturing   strengths to service companies who wanted to make 
their chips but could not afford to build a fab. In order to get started, TSMC needed a 
semiconductor process technology that   did not lag the market by too much. 
The Taiwanese government approached   various Western companies, looking for a 
technology partner willing to contribute   their knowledge and skills. Companies like 
Intel and Texas Instruments were approached,   but both turned down the offer. Intel would later 
contract with TSMC a few years down the line. Philips was the only company who took the offer, 
allowing TSMC to offer a 1.5 micron node that was   only two or so generations behind the rest of the 
market. Philips also offered the fledging company   the protection of its patent portfolio: 80% of its 
technologies came from the Dutch multinational.   This was critical for a company looking to 
get international customers from the get go. In return, Philips got a stake in the company 
alongside private and public investors.   At TSMC's founding they received 28% of the 
company, the second largest shareholder after   the National Development Fund's 48% share. It 
would end up being one of the most successful seed   investments in the history of the semiconductor 
industry. TSMC’s first two years of operations,   the “startup” made 2 billion NTD in revenue 
and changed the semiconductor industry forever. The relationship was so successful 
that over a decade later,   the two companies again partnered to 
launch a joint venture in Singapore   to compete with the growing Chartered 
Semiconductor. The company constructed a   $2 billion SGD fab that continues to serve 
the local Singapore semiconductor market. I talked about this briefly 
in my video about Chartered. Starting in around the 1980s, it became 
clear that Philips was struggling.   It was big, the 12th largest European company in 
1992, but it was not carrying the weight well. The   company had lost its position as a leading 
electronics firm to competitors like Sony. Profits had deteriorated within the core 
business, but a variety of accounting changes   adopted throughout the 1980s had hidden the damage 
from investors. Then suddenly in 1990 the company   unveiled a shocking 4 billion Dutch guilder net 
loss after years of billion guilder profits. It was time to restructure and age gracefully. The   company slowly spun-off various parts of 
its empire into independent companies.   Two of these spinoffs continue to have 
close relations with TSMC to this day. Its first spinoff happened way back in 1984, when 
the company launched a joint venture with ASM   International. This joint venture would eventually 
become ASML, a maker of lithography machines.   Over time, the company would come 
to be a world leader in that market,   defeating its Japanese rivals Nikon and Canon. Today, it is the only supplier of 
Extreme Ultraviolet Lithography machines,   the $150 million machines for achieving the 7nm 
process node and below. It worked closely with   TSMC amongst others to help develop and 
deliver this super advanced technology. Later, Philips spun off its semiconductors 
business entirely. In 2006, what was once Philips   Semiconductor was purchased by a consortium 
of private equity firm investors including KKR   and Silver Lake Partners and 
renamed NXP Semiconductors. NXP is a maker of semiconductors for 
automative and digital networking industries.   When we talk about the automotive 
shortages plaguing today's factories,   those chips are the kind that NXP makes. The 
Dutch-American company continues to use TSMC   as an external foundry partner to 
augment their own manufacturing. Despite these restructurings, Philips held its 
shares in TSMC for over 20 years. They got in   when the company was worth $200 million. They sold 
the last of those shares in 2008 with the company   then worth $50 billion. Today, TSMC is worth 
$500 billion, give or take market fluctuations. Philips invested more into Taiwan than 
any other western electronics company.   And they did it despite knowing all the risks 
of investing in a politically and militarily   unstable island just a hundred 
miles away from a communist country. Don't get me wrong. They made a lot 
of money in setting up shop in Taiwan,   but they could have made a lot of money elsewhere. The company today known as Philips is no 
longer in the semiconductor space, but the   entity's siblings still are. The shared history 
between TSMC and Philips continue to this day,   pushing forward the technological leading edge.