- This is the brand new
14-inch M3 MacBook Pro, and I have one simple question. Is eight gigabytes of RAM really enough? The fact that they are
selling this for $1,600 is a bold move. According to Apple VP of Marketing, Bob Borchers, and I quote, "Eight gigabytes on an M3
MacBook Pro is probably analogous to 16 gigabytes in other systems. We just happen to be able
to use it more efficiently." Well, Bob, I bought myself a MacBook Pro to answer this exact question. Because I'll be honest with you, I have been using the
2021 14-inch MacBook Pro for over two years now. I absolutely love the system
and it is without a doubt my favorite laptop I have ever used. So much so that I feel
no need to upgrade it even after two years and two generations. So when you look at this and it has a lot of the same benefits, but
it's at a significantly lower price point. If the eight gigabytes of
RAM is usable, then great, this might be the best
MacBook you can buy, but my gut is that eight is
gonna run out real quick. Now, as you'll see, this is
a silver MacBook Pro largely because if you want the brand
new shiny Space Black color, you got to shell out for a
Pro-Pro, an M3 Pro MacBook Pro, not to be confused with
the M3 regular MacBook Pro 'cause that, that checks out, right? As a dude who's been
carrying a 14-inch MacBook with me every day, this is lighter. So the M3 is losing one
of the Thunderbolt ports that are on the right side. So we still have HDMI, as
well as the SD card slot and on this side we have
MagSafe, two USB-Cs, which double as Thunderbolt
and the headphone jack, but that is one of the
downsides with this M3. I'll be honest though,
that's not a huge deal. It's nice to have ports on both sides, but the M3 processor just doesn't handle more than two Thunderbolt
ports on any system. In the box is super simple. We have a MagSafe cable, as
well as a 70-watt USB-C charger, but beyond that is the display. Now, don't get me wrong,
the M2 and the M1 MacBooks both have very nice panels,
but the actual display on these MacBook Pros is terrific. 120 hertz, super bright,
vivid like honestly, this is one of my favorite laptop displays on the market, period. Before we actually say
hello or hola, how about... (MacBook thuds) Do you ever like... Sometimes I see like the edit in real time and I said hola and then I
just saw the frame go black and white and shrink a little bit and then the editors start laughing and then we'll just move on, hola. Before we actually dive
into this, I'm just curious on the inside, because
I know that internally is quite different than other MacBooks. The nice thing about this
generation of MacBooks, they're actually very easy to open. There's I think, what eight screws total and then it just pops right out. I'll be honest with you,
there is almost no reason to ever open up a MacBook,
short of maybe if you wanna swap out the battery at some
point, there's very little that's actually user replaceable in here. After way more clips and
pry tools than I thought I needed, let's take a look at the inside of our M3 MacBook Pro. So broadly similar. These I believe are our SSD modules and it also has the very
strange MacBook Pro battery, which...
(upbeat music continues) Wait, am I tripping? Did they shrink the battery? Like I don't remember... Look, look, you see that
there's these gaps on the side, like are these batteries
just slightly smaller? So I mean, as always it's
Apple, it's super, super clean, but let me actually open
up my M1 Max MacBook Pro also because I actually
need to open this up anyway. After a couple of years of use, my hinge is slightly misaligned, probably from being tossed
in my bag enough times. So I actually need to open this up and adjust the hinge anyways, so this'll be a perfect
opportunity for us to do a side by side, and this
is the inside of hey, my very clean looking 14-inch MacBook Pro that I was not worried
about in any way whatsoever. So actually, you know, if
we put these side by side, there are very substantial
differences. (blows) Probably shouldn't blow. One of the main differences is
clearly the cooling solution because we have two fans instead of one, but that makes sense because
this is a significantly more power hungry chip. In fact, you can actually see. So this is where the M3 is and
this is where the M3 Max is. It is just a big chungus of a chip. So now that my curiosity has been sated, let me get the M3 MacBook set
up and start living with it, try to do some video
edits, play some games, use it like a regular
device, and find out, is the eight gigabytes of
RAM an absolute deal breaker or is Mr. Bob Apple himself correct and it's just as good as
everyone else's 16 gigs? So the MacBook is set up, I've
spent a few hours using it and the first question I have
is, how is it for editing? Now, this is certainly more of a use case for me specifically, but the
main reason why I use a MacBook at all is because of Final Cut Pro, the editing program
I've used for many years and I don't want to learn something else. Now, the main advantage
here is that Final Cut is very well optimized on
the Mac as you might expect. So here, I actually have
a couple of projects. First of all is a YouTube Short. So this is a Short that
I edited entirely start to finish on the MacBook. As you can see, obviously
very straightforward, it's 4K H.265 and even with a
couple of effects and whatnot, it plays back absolutely no problem. I mean, as far as I'm
concerned, this could be on my M1 Max or whatever
it is, super, super smooth. More interestingly, is a full
19-minute edited timeline. So I actually edited this
last night on my M1 Max. So the main thing I'm curious about is the actual scrubbing performance, but this project was slightly too large, so it was like a little
less than 400 gigabytes, which with the other things I
wanted to install on the Mac, it wouldn't fit on my
512 gig internal storage, so I actually have to run
it on an external SSD. With a larger project like this, I will say that it does chug slightly. So you see if I'm like scrubbing
through really quickly, it does kind of stutter just a little bit, but I can play pretty much anywhere. Just skip around. Honestly, the lack of RAM is not really a main concern for me. Next up, I want to try
to game on this MacBook. Now, earlier in the year, we actually did an entire video gaming on Apple Silicon and the TL;DR on that was, it actually is not a bad experience, assuming you find a game
that is properly optimized, which is where Baldur's Gate 3 comes in. Now, this is a game that I've been playing a little bit lately, it is a lot of fun, it is a proper AAA game, and
unlike a lot of the demos that Apple been showing
it like Keynotes and stuff like Resident Evil, no
Man's Sky and whatnot, this is a proper AAA game,
which is specifically designed for Apple Silicon. So let me actually launch into it. I have played some Baldur's Gate, I've not played on this MacBook yet. So let me actually see if I can figure out some settings that work well. Okay, so it's defaulting
to the full resolution of the display, I'm
gonna be not doing that. Look, Apple talked a big game about how the M3 supports
mesh shading and ray tracing, and it's their most advanced
graphical architecture and with the active cooler,
I actually can believe that this will be able to play
at least relatively well. So let's give this a try. We're gonna load it up
at 1200p medium settings with FSR set to balanced, and
let's see how this M3 MacBook with eight gigs of RAM runs. Also, I'll just mention that
I'm doing all of this editing, as well as gaming on battery life. No, not Shadowheart. No, not the acid, okay. All my dudes are
definitely dying right now. Oh, no, no. You know what? Oh, you know, oh dang, I accidentally need to reload my save. Oh, I hate when that... The game crashed, did you see that? I'll be honest, I play on the Steam Deck and on the Steam Deck, I get like 30fps and it looks not good. The fact that I am running
on a base M3 MacBook Pro, mind you, can hear the fan cranking, it certainly definitely spun
up more than I have heard at any point when I'm editing
or doing anything else, but this is also on battery
and I'm getting 90 to 100fps. 100fps, I got 120 hertz
display, ProMotion baby. At least my, you know, day one experience between trying a little
bit of gaming, editing, legitimately impressive. Like honestly, I am kind of surprised. Let me spend some more
time with this MacBook, let me actually do more regular tasks, throw 50 Microsoft Edge tabs
at it and see how it holds up. I got to give it to you, Bob, as much as I don't want admit it. Eight gigabytes of RAM, especially with these new M3 MacBook Pros is still very usable. There
are a lot of reasons for that, I think apps have become more optimized, I think they do legitimately
a great job of keeping that eight gigabytes of
RAM very well utilized and have fast SSDs as sort of your backup for the swap memory. I still wish that we had 16
gigabytes of RAM standard on a $1,600 laptop, but I
went into this video thinking that it was gonna be a complete nightmare and I was gonna run out of RAM, it was gonna be chugging and slow, and that just simply isn't the case. In fact, if anything, coming
from my M1 Max MacBook Pro to this M3, I've actually
noticed that it seems a little snappier, largely
because this does have faster single thread performance. I would guess that three,
four, five years from now, having 16 gigabytes of RAM
is gonna be a lot more comfy than this eight gigabyte model. It might start to show its age over time, even though it still
holds up really well today and if you do want to take a little peek into the refurbished market or
like some of the older models on sale, the M1 Pros and the M2 Pros are still very competent devices and you can routinely find
those for $1,500 or less. That is probably my
number one recommendation. I will freely admit that my workflow and the way I personally use the system is probably a little bit lighter weight than a lot of true "professionals" who are using programs
that are not Final Cut, that are not incredibly well optimized and for those uses, you're going to find a significant
performance improvement by going up to an M3
Pro or an M3 Max, right? All of this being said,
while eight gigabytes of RAM is shockingly usable today,
I still struggle slightly with how well it will hold
up over the long term. You know, three, four,
five years down the line, maybe this starts to show its age. Let me know what
you think about this in the comments below. Make sure to subscribe to the channel, ringling the dingling button. Don't forget, for every
like on this video, your MacBook will magically
get one gig of extra RAM.