- Laptops just got a whole lot faster. For years Intel has barely improved their mobile CPU performance. And when they did, they
sacrificed thermals and battery life. Today that changes. In this laptop we have 14 CPU cores that can clock up to five gigahertz. While also improving the battery life this is the biggest generational uplift in laptop performance
since at least rising 4,000 and maybe even longer. Oh, and this thing also
has an RTX 3080Ti in it. So just how much better
will laptops be in 2022? I'll show you right after
I show you the segue to our sponsor iFixit. Thanks to iFixit for
sponsoring this video. iFixit's ImAGenius campaign, highlights leaders and the
right to repair movement and shows the world that every repair is an act of genius. Watch until the end of the video, to find out how you can show the world, your act of genius and
how to enter to win $100 to the iFixit store. (upbeat music) In this MSI GE76, we have the
new Intel Core i9 12900HK. A 10 nanometers CPU based
on Intel's Alder Lake which has already dominated
the desktop space. Alder Lake is a new CPU
architecture that utilizes both performance and efficiency cores. In the case of the 12900HK,
you get six performance and eight efficiency for
a total of 20 threads. That's the most we have ever
seen in a mobile processor. For our testing we have two nearly identical GE76 Raiders from MSI. The old model has an 11th
Gen i9 with an RTX 3080. And as of yesterday, this
was about the fastest laptop money could buy. As the first proper 10 nanometer
implementation from Intel. It was already a huge improvement over its 10th Gen predecessor. But it's not yesterday anymore. How much faster is the 12th Gen in games? 15% pretty much across the board. In CPU bound games at 1080P,
we see around a 15% increase thanks to the 12th Gen processor. And in CPU bound games at 4K,
we see around a 15% increase thanks to the 3080 Ti. The performance
improvements and the 3080 Ti are fairly straightforward. We get 1200 more CUDA Cores
than the normal 3080 Mobile, and 10 extra watts to power them. If you happen to really
know your GPU specs though, the 3080 Ti Mobile is
still a fair ways off the 10240 CUDA Cores of the desktop 3080. What I'm more interested in though is the mobile RTX 3070 Ti. Judging by the specs I'm guessing
the performance difference between it and a mobile 3080 will be barely noticeable. And laptops the 3070 Ti start at $1,500, still a lot of cash, but not too bad if you looked at the desktop
card prices recently. Moving from gaming to productivity, Alder Lake really starts to shine. The multithreaded performance improvement is staggering with a 45%
increase in Cinebench. And the domination just continues in all of our other benchmarks. This is extraordinarily bad news for Andy since multi-core performance
was kind of their thing, but AMD's real advantage on mobile this whole time has been efficiency. How has Intel done there? Very well. We rarely get the opportunity
to properly test out gen over gen battery life in laptops, but I'm super glad we did today because otherwise it would've
been pretty hard to believe the 45% increase in battery life with Alder Lake. And MSI GE76 Raider that
takes us from a barely usable four and a half hours of YouTube viewing to a manageable six and a half. But like that's six and
a half hours in a laptop with the largest battery you
can legally take on a plane. Intel was very far behind AMD and Apple in terms of efficiency. So we'll have to wait until
we get an Alder Lake laptop that is optimized for battery
life rather than performance to see if they close the gap. We already saw an our
review of the M1 Max, that Apple doesn't have as
big of a performance lead as they would have you think. Back then the Asus Zephyrus G16 with an 11th Gen i9 and RTX 3060 thoroughly embarrassed the M1 Max in basically every situation
where the median coder wasn't taking the brunt of the workload. Based off that we can pretty
safely say the i9 12900HK and the RTX 3080 Ti
outperformed the M1 Max in basically everything. But like this laptop
doesn't fit in my backpack and goes through battery life faster than the last verse of Rosalynn Borg. It freaking better outperform a MacBook. Where this battle will
get a lot more interesting is when we start seeing how Alder Lake holds up in laptops, like
the XPS 15 and AMD 14. That are powerful, but designed with good
battery life in mind. Fortunately, Intel has given
laptop makers tons of CPU's to experiment with this generation. 28 of them to be exact. The H or Halo series are
the super powerful boys, like the 12900HK that we've been testing. Of those the i5 12500H
really sticks out to me. It gets 4P cores and 8E cores, which means that it
might be able to dominate the mid range gaming laptop segment. Just like you'll be able to
dominate the competition. You get an LTT desk pad. lttstore.com. Anyway, dropping the TDP
down from scorching to warm we get Intel's new P-series
processors for thinner designs that still want a fair bit of power. Think of like a 14-inch ultra book or thinner gaming laptops. Top tier i7 1280P sounds
like a weird resolution, but is actually pretty
similar to the 12900HK with a much lower power budget. The rest of the P-series
have 4P cores and 8E cores potentially eating some
very versatile laptops. This is where AMD and maybe even Apple might be scared. Moving to proper thinner lights via Intel's U-series processors. Most of which have 2P cores and 8E cores. These are going to be rather confusing because there are both 15
watt and nine watt versions, but they share the same names. Oh, Intel wanna have the 15
watt version be the i7 1265U and the nine watt
version be the i7, 1260U. This is going to have a massive
impact on both performance and battery life. And I could see a consumer being like, "Oh, these two laptops, they
have the same processor, but one gets four hours more battery life. I'll get that one." But what they don't know
is that the also have 40% less performance. To Intel's credit though
normally we find something dumb and confusing about
their lineup immediately. This generation, we got
1138 words into the script. So that's an improvement. What does all this mean for AMD though? Are they going to be stuck just playing second fiddle once again? My guess, it will be more
of a use case dependent sort of thing. During CES AMD announced the new Ryzen 6000 Rembrandt CPU's. If we take AMD by their word,
the 1.3 times improvement and compute might be able to bring them to a similar level of
single core performance as Intel's Alder Lake. AMD doesn't have a hybrid
architecture though. So I doubt AMD's eight cores
will be able to take on Intel's 14 and multithreaded applications. While Rembrandt does
have going forth though RDNA two graphics. AKA the same graphics, the
power of the Xbox Series X and PlayStation five. AMD says there will be double the graphics performance available, and there's even ray tracing
support on a freaking APU. Get subscribed because I'm super excited to review these when they come out. Does Alder Lake have an answer for this? No. In here we have the same Iris Xe graphics with 96 execution units as before,. Just with a 0.05 gigahertz
clock speed improvement. But hey, we've got to
give AMD something here. It's crazy what a bit
of competition can do. And Intel I'm really glad you've come back to join the party. The real party though,
are always my segues to our sponsor iFixit. Thanks again to iFixit for
sponsoring today's video. iFixit takes device repair seriously. To help support the
right to repair movement iFixit is celebrating
their ImAGenius campaign. iFixit wants to help
motivate you to join fixers around the world and commit to
fixing more things this year, by giving you the chance to
win $100 to the iFixit store. For a chance to win head
over to ifixit.com/pledge, to commit to fixing your devices, share a photo of your most recent repair with the #ImAGenius and tag iFixit. That's it. The last day to enter is January 31st. So head over to ifixit.com/pledge to join the right to
repair movement today. So thanks for watching. Hit like, get subscribed. And if this video made you, I don't know, feel good about the computer market maybe go check out a
review of the RX 6500 XT. What a truly terrible curve. Bye. (laughs)