- Oops! (beep) You guys remember this
impressive little number, right? Full-fledged Windows gaming PC. Got a slide up screen and keyboard. Pocketable form factor, hold on, gotta lose my phone here... Bam! Pretty freakin' sweet! Except ehh, I dunno. Screen's a little small, isn't it? That is where this comes in. Meet the ONE XPLAYER: A powerful portable gaming machine with a screen that absolutely dwarfs the GPD Win 3. Look at the size of this thing! And it's comin' in to crush
the growing competition in this handheld PC market. Okay, handheld... Yeah, it's handheld. Pocketable? (clears throat) Hold on... (grunting) Ehh. Maybe not so much. But what is so much, is my excitement to tell
you about our sponsor: NordPass. Store your passwords in a single place and log in to your favorite
websites and services, keeping all your information safe with NordPass password manager. Learn more at the end of this video. (upbeat music) This is actually a
keyboard dock connector. So, we don't have it unfortunately, it's an optional accessory. But you can see how it works, there's a couple magnets right there. So you pop that puppy on, you kick out the Nintendo
Switch-style kickstand, and y'know, you're on a plane, you put it on the seat tray or whatever. And, it's kinda like a combination between a Surface Pro and a netbook. 'Cause, while the display is big for a handheld gaming console, it's not exactly big for a computer. The good news, though is that moving right around to the front, let's waste no time
getting to this screen. It is a 2560 by 1608.4 inch IPS display. It's not HDR or anything like that but it looks freakin'
awesome while gaming, and has a silly amount of pixel
density for regular usage. The colors are what I would
describe as "good enough". Brightness is also good enough. And, while 60 hertz isn't
the best thing ever, with a device like this you're gonna be lucky to be getting more than 60 FPS in any
modern games anyway. So, I think it's pretty much a win. Moving around to the back, we've got two intakes for what looks like a
pretty beefy cooling system. What the devil do they have in here? As well as volume up and down, mute, as well as a
fingerprint sensor over here. Of course, a lot of the
business is up on the top. Because it is a full-fledged PC, it has full-fledged PC IO. So you've got the cooling vents that I talked about before. Microphone/headphone combo jack. Two USB Type-C's, this one right here is
labeled for charging. MicroSD, which is super nice. I wouldn't load up a PC
game on a microSD card, but, if I was playing, y'know older emulated games for example, it's more than fast enough for that. As well as USB 3.0. That puts it in pretty close contention with the Aya Neo for its IO. The only thing really missing here is that I would really prefer to have a bottom-mounted charging port so that when I'm gaming, it's hangin' off the
bottom and not off the top. Oh, right, gaming! (chuckles) Let's talk about the controller. So it's an Xbox-style controller. There's your start. There's your select. I dunno, whatever, I'm a SNES kid. Got your analog... Click's okay. A little mushy, I would say. Resistance on the joysticks, though is pretty darn good. ABXY's also a touch mushy. D-pad not bad! Considering how bad modern D-pads are, I would consider this
to be very acceptable. And, this is really cool: So you've got your right
and left shoulder buttons, but you've also got
right and left triggers. And, unlike the Aya Neo, where these are just 1/ \0, binary states, these (clicks tongue) are analog. V' interesting. 'Specially if you're into racing games or something like that. We've got a keyboard button here, which brings up the onscreen keyboard. Not the good onscreen
keyboard, unfortunately. I wish that it just did that, that would be better. And if you hold it, it'll
actually illuminate. See, watch this: boop! And now you can use your
joystick as a mouse. This needs some work. Fortunately this is still
an early access product, so they've got some time to tune this, but it takes an awful long time to move the mouse across
the screen right now. That's not great. They also got a turbo button. Let's talk about what that means. So inside here, you can get anywhere from a Core i5-1135G7 all the way up to a Core i7-1185G7. Which, (chuckles) the ONE XPLAYER Indiegogo video calls, "the world's most powerful CPU" because I guess they haven't heard of desktop CPU's, for example. Anyway. It's equipped with up to 16 gigs of 4266 LPDDR4 memory, Intel's Iris Xe graphics, as well as 512 gigs of M.2 storage, and a 60 watt-hour battery which they say can last
for five to six hours with light usage, or two to three hours while gaming. So that's pretty competitive with other handhelds that
we've seen like this. Which is good, considering the size
of the freakin' screen. But, your battery life's
gonna go down a little bit if you go into turbo mode. The cooling system for this
thing apparently takes up an inordinate amount of space inside it because it's designed to handle up to the full 28 watt TDP of this CPU. Why don't we go ahead and open it up and have a look at that? - No, not really I wanna see it workin'. (David laughing) I wanna know what makes it tick, David. Yeah, we only have one. This is prototype AF. Welp, it's basically all
cooling system and battery, as advertised. Here's a controller. Here's another controller. These are actually
surprisingly big speakers. I've got high hopes for
the integrated audio. Here's the magnets that we found for the keyboard dock. One, two... That one looks pretty cheaply mounted but, whatever. I lost count, doesn't matter. Unfortunately, I don't
really have a good look at the inner guts. I'm assuming that this
thermal pad right here is probably for the SSD. I don't wanna break it
before we make a video. Yep. Everything still seems to
be working, which is good. Do we have Cinebench on
here or anything like that? I gotta say, the difference in screen
resolution between this and the GPD Win 3 and the Aya Neo makes a huge difference. Even being close to it like this, like I would with a handheld, it is, just... It's crisp. 2560 by 1600 is a lot of
pixels for this screen size. Are we turboed right now? Oh yeah, we turboed. Let's see what kind of
performance we can get. We're gonna plug in. I wanna see what this
thing can freakin' do on a drag strip. Holy schnikes! Your PC, huh? She a goer? Know what I mean? Well base is 2.8. This is three point almost one. Not too flippin' shabby considering this is a quad-core processor. I mean, do you remember when quad-cores at, y'know, three gigahertz in change was the desktop experience? Actually not that long ago. It's a little loud. Not crazy loud. And, actually runs
surprisingly not that hot all things considered. Of course, we don't have
the onboard GPU running yet. We're gonna fire up a
game real quick here. I just wanna see what the score is. 5,106 points. That's about 75% as
fast as a Core i7-7700K. So like I said, not that
far off desktop performance just a few short years ago. Let's see how it handles
something kinda eSportsy. We're gonna start with Rocket League. Hmm. Remember how I said I had high hopes for the speakers David? Well I did. Hello? All right. The controller's got a
bit of a weird behavior where, if you have it in mouse mode, when you launch the game and then try to switch
it back to gamepad mode, the game won't always pick it up. So let's go ahead and close the game and give that another try here. (clock ticking) Controller's workin' now and we are gonna go full moonshot here, running at 2560 by 1600, basically maxed out details, uncapped frames per second, and then disabling motion blur. And let's see what we get here, all right? That is a lot of resolution
for a device this size. - Yeah, I take back what I said before, about the display being pretty decent. We're sittin' at anywhere
from around 35 to 45 FPS. This is like, super playable. How close can you get? - [David] I'm pretty close-- - Wait, what, what do you
mean battery's running low? I am plugged in right now. One of the outlets is unplugged! We might get some more performance-- Oh man, the brightness went way up! - [David] What! - Oh, it was just, I thought we were in
the plugged-in profile! Oh my goodness! We're gettin' like 40 FPS now! Actually that looks pretty similar in terms of performance, but the display looks way better! It's running like max details! One complaint though. Something I'm noticing is that the plastics and the molding, they lack refinement
compared to the Aya Neo which conveniently, I happen to have right here. They've done a better job of rounding off the
bottom so that it rests in your palms a little bit better. And especially when you consider how flippin' heavy this thing is, I'm noticing, even after sitting here and using it for the last
like 15 minutes in a row, it kinda is digging in a little bit, it's not too comfortable. But there's something that I also realized while I was talking to you guys about it. The screen on this thing! It's not just a little bigger. It's a lot bigger! To the point where I don't even think I
would use it like this. If I'm sittin' like this, right? How close would this have
to be to be equivalent? This is very scientific... About there. So that buys you like an extra at least three or four inches. And you know what they say, three or four inches is a lot! You know what I want to do though? We've got kind of a unique opportunity with both Intel Xe
graphics and a Ryzen 4500U both in like mobile game
console form factors. Let's see how they stack up. I'm gonna run this at exactly the same
resolution and settings as that one. Also, we should probably turn turbo off, nobody's gonna use that. It's like gonna kill your battery life. The performance of these
is impressively close. So what it really comes down to is, who makes the game console
design that you prefer. And also some other things. It's a bit tangential to my point but hey, the USB port works. Transferring to this drive at 636 megabytes a second
real casually right now. That's the limit of this drive, not the limit of this port. Pretty sweet. Everything seems to be going well in RPCS3 running Persona 5 which is a pretty demanding PlayStation 3 game. - Oh, and it's done, bud. So there you have it. While Intel's onboard Xe graphics definitely have a lot of potential, right now the drivers have
some catching up to do compared to AMD, Nvidia, and for that matter even Intel's
older onboard graphics. For comparison, (clears throat) the Aya Neo. Okay, that's not a lot of FPS, but it is running. I bet we could get it running better if we spent some more time on it though. (clock ticking) There we go. Look at that. Dang! We gettin' like almost 30 FPS. Basically 30 FPS locked. Emulating that on onboard graphics: pretty freakin' cool. And I do have hope for Xe. It's just that the drivers are clearly not there yet. Couldn't even launch, and AMD's runnin' at 30 FPS. Of course that's not the
device the video is about. Let's go back to the ONE XPLAYER. - Ah, no. Switch, Yuzu doesn't work either. What we can do though, is we can run games in Dolphin. So let's start with Super Mario 64. Look at that ladies and gentlemen. It's smooth. N64 isn't the only thing you
can do in Dolphin of course. Let's go ahead and try something
a little more demanding. I'll play some Wii games,
ladies and gentlemen. Oh that, man that-- - Oh.
- [David] Oh! - That joystick really gets in the way of what's shakin' here. Man, this is a-- 'Kay, I'm actually-- Sorry, David. Can I just hold it where it's comfortable? - Okay, 'cause this is awesome. The size of this screen is a complete game changer
compared to the Aya Neo. If Intel can get their
drivers figured out, this is frickin' awesome! And to be clear guys, it's not just Intel. The entire development
community around these emulators has to figure out how to get
the most out of Xe graphics. This button was a really good idea. Being able to be fullscreen in an emulator that doesn't have kind of
any meaningful way to-- Oh wow, okay, I guess you could do that. Wait a second. Is that a Windows 10 feature? Oh that's freakin' awesome. Nevermind. Well, whatever. It's still nice to have a button that just takes you back to the desktop. (David chuckles) Can you even believe this
is like a desktop background people use at work? Grow up. Oops! (beep) For those of you who aren't familiar, what we're doing now is
not running Apex Legends natively on this, but rather streaming it from
a gaming desktop upstairs. That's one of the ways
that you can have have AAA gaming experience
on these mobile devices if you already have a gaming PC. Oh wow, is this like
actually your account Jessie? - Well not settings, like
your record (laughs). - I'm not very good at this game. - We're gonna double our kill count today. If you just watch. To play a Heal Drone. How do I do that? - Oh, I'm dead. - I'm bleeding out
- [David] You're downed yeah. Oh wow. I just got, did I just
get my face stomped on? - Wow, that was really fast (laughs). (beep) Now we're running on the hardware directly and the point of firing up something like Batman Arkham Asylum is to show that with the enormous back catalog of PC games that are out there, just because it's a AAA doesn't mean you won't be
able to run it on a handheld. Sure, something newer like Apex Legends? Probably not gonna run that great. But an older title like this? I have it absolutely cranked. You're seeing a couple
stutters and hiccups here, but that is not bad! Native res'! It's like actually pretty dang smooth. And this is not a terrible looking game. Obviously the textures
aren't very modern generation and stuff like that. Like, it's kind of flat looking compared to something newer, but it's not bad! Of course that's before
we talk about price. After the Indiegogo's complete, the base model is gonna
start at over $1,000 with the top-end Core i7, two terabyte one running 1,600 U.S. dollars. And, that's to say
nothing of the fact that we know absolutely
nothing about this company other than that apparently they have a silkscreen on here that says
"powered by Tencent Games". So there's a good chance that they will actually deliver hardware, but unlike someone like GPD, where we know that they
have long track record of delivering exactly
what they say they are and then actually following up
with support for the devices, we just have no idea what
that's gonna look like. It's an utterly unique experience, though with the size of this screen. And while I do have some concerns about Intel's Xe driver
support in the years to come, it's Intel, so that scenario where I have confidence that they're gonna mostly
get that stuff figured out. So, feel free to check it
out at the link down below. And while you're at it,
check out our sponsor! NordPass password manager helps you store all of your passwords in a single place, keeping them safe and secure. It recognizes your favorite websites and automatically fills
in your login details, and, can create new
complex passwords for you so you don't have to sit
there and think like, oh man, "butter, fart, pound, ampersand..." Whatever, it'll just come
up with that stuff for you and stash it away so
that it's ready to recall when you need it. I coulda really used something
like that when I was younger, 'cause I'll let you guys in on a secret: My first email address was
moomoo_the_cow@hotmail.com. My password for it? Koolcow1. All lowercase with a K for cool. Not a great password, and with NordPass, you will never have a
password like that ever again. So don't wait. They've got unlimited password, note, and credit card storage. And premium starts at just $2.50 a month, giving you additional features like data breach alerts, password health reports, and up to six active devices. For a limited time, you can get 70% off a two-year NordPass premium plan
with an extra month for free. So protect your passwords
today at nordpass.com/linus and use code LINUS. (upbeat music)
If you guys enjoyed this video, well hey, we actually checked out quite a few devices like that and we've alluded to these other ones, but you can check out our
full videos on the GPD Win 3 as well as the Aya Neo
at the links down below.