Every year floods make their way through 
populated areas, costing lives and millions of   dollars in damages, devastating communities, and 
grinding local economies to a halt. If you’ve ever   experienced one yourself, you know how powerless 
it feels to be up against mother nature. And if   you haven’t, be careful in thinking it can’t 
happen to you. Nearly every major city across   the world is susceptible to extreme rainfall 
and has areas that are vulnerable to flood risk.   Luckily, we’ve developed strategies and structures 
over the years to reduce our vulnerability and   mitigate our risk. We still can’t change how 
much it rains (at least in the short term),   but we’ve found lots of ways to manage that 
water once it reaches the earth to limit the   danger it poses to lives and property. Hey, 
I’m Grady and this is Practical Engineering.   On today’s episode, we’re talking about how large 
scale flood control structures work on rivers. This video is sponsored by Curiosity Stream and   Nebula. Get 26% off at the link in 
the description. More on that later! We all know generally what a flood is: 
too much water in one place at one time.   But, I think there’s still uncertainty in how 
floods actually occur. Part of the reason for   that confusion, I think, is the huge variety 
of scales we have when talking about flooding.   Most river systems are dendritic. The 
topography of the land and the long-term   geologic processes mean that streams join and 
concentrate the further you move downstream   just like the branches of a tree. A watershed 
is the entire area of land where precipitation   collects and drains into a common outlet; 
it’s a funnel. And as you move downstream,   those funnels start to combine. The further 
you go, the larger the watershed becomes   as more and more streams contribute to the 
drainage. So watersheds can be tiny or gigantic. Your front yard is a watershed to the gutter 
on the street. If it happens to be raining hard   directly on your house, the gutter will flood, 
maybe even overtop the road onto the sidewalk.   At the complete opposite end of the spectrum, 
more than a million square miles (or three million   square kilometers) make up the drainage area of 
the Mississippi River in the U.S. A big rainstorm   in one city is not going to make a dent in the 
total flow of this river. But, if everywhere in   the basin is having an unseasonably wet year, that 
can add up into major flooding as all that water   concentrates into a single waterway. This seems 
simple, but it is a real conceptual challenge in   understanding flooding, not to mention trying 
to control it. Smaller watersheds only flood   during single intense storm events, called 
flash floods. Usually, this water is already   long gone by the time the next storm comes. In 
contrast, large watersheds flood in response to   widespread and sustained wet weather. They aren’t 
really affected by single storm events. Of course,   in a dendritic system, there’s everything in 
between which means a flood can be a local   event affecting a few houses and streets for a 
couple of hours during an intense thunderstorm   or a months-long ordeal impacting huge 
swaths of land and multiple communities. Riverine flooding is also a 
challenge because it’s not linear.   This is a generalized cross section through 
a river. You have the main channel where most   normal flows occur. Every unit of rise in 
the river doesn’t equal that much extra   width in inundation. Plus there’s not much 
development within the banks of a river:   maybe some low bridges and a few docks. But, 
above the channel banks, things change. The   slopes aren’t so steep and you end up with wide, 
flat areas of land. And you know what we humans   like to do with wide, flat areas near waterways - 
we build stuff, like entire cities. That or use it   as farm land. The problem is that, once a channel 
overbanks, every unit of rise in the river equals   much wider extents of inundation. You can see now 
why this is called the floodplain. And looking at   a cross sectional view, it’s easy to see one of 
the most common structural solutions to flooding:   levees. If overtopping the banks of the river 
creates the problem, we can just make the banks of   the river higher by building earthen embankments 
or concrete walls. Levees protect developed areas   by confining rivers within artificial banks. 
That means areas outside the levees flood less   frequently. It doesn’t mean they have zero flood 
risk at all, since it’s always possible to have   an extreme event that overwhelms the levees. For 
earthen structures, overtopping of a levee can   cause erosion and even failure (or breach) of the 
berm. That can make the flooding even worse than   it would have been otherwise, especially if people 
weren’t evacuated from the area ahead of time.   So, even though they are a pretty simple solution 
to the problem of flooding, levees aren’t perfect. Sometimes getting that water out of the 
channel is exactly what you want though.   Another tried and true flood control technique is 
diversion canals. These are human-made channels   used to divert flood waters to undeveloped 
areas where it won’t be as damaging. Often   it’s not possible to widen an existing river 
because there’s already too much development   or for environmental reasons. So instead, we 
create a separate channel to divert floodwater   around developed areas and back into the natural 
waterway downstream. In most cases there will   be some kind of structure at the head of the 
diversion channel to help control which route   the water takes. For normal conditions, water 
will flow through the natural river, but when a   flood comes, most of that water will be diverted, 
reducing the flood risk to the developed areas. But, it would be nice if all that water didn’t 
make it into the river in the first place.   That’s only possible with the other major 
type of flood control infrastructure:   dams. These are structures meant to impound or 
store large volumes of water, creating reservoirs.   Dams meant for flood control are kept 
partially or completely empty so that,   when a major flood event occurs, all that water 
can be stored and released slowly over time. The   theory here isn’t too complicated. We can’t change 
the volume of water that comes from a flood, but   with enough storage, we can change the time period 
over which it gets released into the river. Big   sloshes of water into this bucket come out slowly 
over time. As long as the sloshes are far enough   apart and the bucket is big enough, you almost 
never see significant flooding out on the other   side. But, not all dams are built specifically 
for flood control. Many reservoirs are intended   to stay as full as possible so the water can 
be used for hydropower, supplying cities, or   irrigation of crops. If a water supply reservoir 
happens to be empty at the time of a big flood,   it will work just like a flood control reservoir, 
storing the water for later use. But, if the   reservoir is already full, they have to open the 
floodgates to let the water through. This can be   frustrating for the residents downstream who may 
have thought they had protection from the dam. In many cases, a dam can serve multiple purposes 
at the same time. Different zones, called pools,   are established for the different uses. One 
pool is kept full to be used for hydropower or   water supply and one is kept empty to be used for 
storage in the event of a flood. Finding the right   balance point between how much storage to keep 
full versus empty is a complicated challenge that   considers climate, weather, the maximum amount 
of flow that can be released without damaging   property downstream. Some dams vary the size of 
these pools over the course of a year depending   on the seasonality of flooding, and some even use 
risk indicators like the depth of the snowpack   within the watershed to dynamically adjust the 
volume available to store a potential flood. I’ve been using the term “flood 
control” throughout this video,   but the truth is that term is falling out of 
favor. Now if you ask an engineer or hydrologist,   they’re more likely to talk about “flood risk 
management.” Our ability to quote-unquote   “control” mother nature is tenuous at best, 
and the more we try, the more we realize this:   even if expensive infrastructure is helpful in a 
lot of circumstances, at best it is an incomplete   strategy to reduce the impacts of flooding over 
the long term. For one, flood control structures   (especially levees) can protect some areas 
while exacerbating flooding in other places.   For two, overbanking flows are actually 
beneficial in a lot of ways. Just like wildfires,   flooding is a natural phenomenon that has positive 
effects on the floodplain like improving habitat,   ecology, soils, and groundwater recharge. 
And for three, we are understanding more   and more the true value of resiliency - that is 
instead of reducing the probability of flooding,   instead reducing the consequences. This 
is normally accomplished with strategic   development like reserving (or converting) 
the floodplain for natural wetlands, parks,   trails, and other purposes that aren’t as easily 
damaged by flooding. In fact flood buyouts where   high risk property is purchased and converted to 
green space is often the most cost effective way   to reduce flood damages in the long term (even 
if not the most politically popular strategy).  It’s not likely we’ll ever have the ability to 
reduce the volume of rainfall during major storms,   and in fact, many locations are already 
experiencing more extreme rainfall events   than they ever have due to climate change. But, 
we will continue to develop strategies, both   structural and non-, to reduce the risk 
to lives and property posed by flooding. If you’re here at the end of this video, 
I’m guessing you spend your valuable free   time learning new things about the world. You 
probably also don’t enjoy watching ads like this,   which is great, because Nebula doesn’t have any. 
Nebula is a streaming service built by and for   independent creators like MinutePhysics, 
Real Engineering, Wendover Productions,   and a bunch of others. It’s a way for us 
to try new ideas that might not work on   advertiser-supported platforms like YouTube. 
And, we’re super excited to be partnering with   CuriosityStream, a service with thousands 
of documentaries and non-fiction titles   on pretty much every subject you can imagine. 
CuriosityStream loves independent creators and   wants to help us grow our platform, so they’re 
offering free access to Nebula when you sign   up at CuriosityStream.com/ practicalengineering. 
There are a lot of streaming services right now,   and if you add them all up it would be hundreds 
of dollars a month. That’s why this bundle is such   an awesome deal. For a short time, CuriosityStream 
is taking 26% off an annual plan - that’s only $15   a year to get access to thousands of 
awesome documentaries on CuriosityStream   AND everything on Nebula as well. Watch how 
castles were built or a deep dive into the   railways of India on CuriosityStream or watch 
Tom Scott pit other YouTubers against each other   in his Nebula-exclusive gameshow, Money. It’s 
a great way to support my channel and a whole   host of your other favorite educational creators. 
Plus it’s just a good deal. Do us both a favor and   click that link in the description. Thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think!