Everyone knows that China's 
strategic rare earths monopoly   is not built on top of mines but refinement. China's extraction and purification dominance not   only grants them economic leverage 
they are more than willing to use; But also puts them first in line 
for future breakthroughs and new   applications using these elements since Chinese 
researchers have such a plentiful supply of it. Rare earths refinement as it is done now is 
dirty and damaging. And since we don't need   a lot of rare earths, it is hard to find scale. 
How to get around this? So let's talk bacteria. ## Beginnings There are about 15 to 17 
valuable rare earth elements. They are used in a variety of industries. 
Like magnets for the green energy and EV   industries. They are also used in flat screens, 
fiber optics, MRI machines, and more. Their   roles are small but critical. You don't need 
a lot of them, but nothing works without them. The ironic thing about rare earth 
elements is that a few of them are   found everywhere. In China they are added to 
fertilizers to encourage plant growth. Thus,   we have seen concentrations of it 
accumulating in plants, animals, and people. Anyway, so they are everywhere. 
The problem is finding them in   large enough concentrations to 
economically pull out. Generally   that is from ore deposits of minerals 
like bastnasite, monazite, and xenotime. Unfortunately their chemical properties 
are very similar to one another,   which makes separating and 
purifying them challenging. ## Refinement These ores need to undergo a refinement 
process in order to get the desired elements. The exact process depends on the specific 
element and the ore they are refining,   but what follows is a brief conceptual review. After the ore rocks are mined, we 
roast them in different ways at over   300 degrees Celsius in the presence 
of acids. We want to remove moisture,   decompose some of the minerals, 
and prepare them for later steps. Here, we may do some extra steps like gravitation 
or Flotation to further concentrate the ores in   preparation for refinement. Flotation is 
pretty gross. We add a bunch of chemicals   to a slurry of ore and water which causes the 
stuff we want to rise to the surface as froth. Gravitation is where we use centrifuges 
to separate specific minerals or elements   from others based on their weight. After 
gravitation and flotation, we have a more   concentrated slurry that is ready for the core 
hydrometallurgical steps - starting with leaching. Leaching is where we pour acids over 
the cracked and roasted rocks with   the goal of dissolving the elements 
out of the ores. What acid we leach   with again depends on the element - could 
be either hydrochloric or sulfuric acids. Now we have a liquid of acid and some 
rare earth elements. We can use either   ion exchange or solvent extraction to do the 
core work of separating the REEs. The former is   still sometimes used for specialty elements, but 
solvent extraction is more commercially scalable. The basic concept behind solvent extraction is 
that we mix the leached liquid with a second,   organic liquid in such a way to cause 
ions to travel from the first to the   second liquid. After this is done, 
you have a reasonably pure rare earth   concentration that undergoes 
further work for 99% purity. We know little about how China performs 
these processes at scale, but we do   know that it is a massive ecosystem 
involving over a hundred companies. Processing is also energy intensive and 
potentially damaging to the environment   due to the chemicals involved. For 
instance, I just mentioned flotation.   Solvent exchange also leaves behind a 
real mess that is not easy to clean up. Needless to say, the whole processing 
chain is a formidable capital-intensive   foundation that is difficult to match. Can 
we find a better way to get around all this? ## Bacteria In recent years, there has been a lot 
of work done in using bacteria in an   industrial setting to produce 
or refine specific chemicals. For instance, Hyaluronic Acid or HA is a 
chemical found in the body's connective   and neural tissues. Because it is an 
important component in repairing skin,   we use it for cosmetics, skincare, 
and tissue engineering products. To produce it at industrial scale, we extract 
it from animal tissues. Namely, the combs of   roosters. Which seems to me like ... well, at 
least they are using every part of the bird. Another, less-bird-deforming 
way was discovered in the 1990s,   when we identified a gene in the 
Streptococcus bacteria that made   HA. We smash that gene like it's the 
YouTube Like button and let it rip. Furthermore, there has been a lot of work done 
with regards to using bacteria as an eco-friendly   method for cleaning up heavy metal pollution, 
especially in sewage runoff from mines. There   is a lot of overlap here with rare earths 
refinement so let us take a look into it. ## Biosorption There are several mechanisms by which we can 
use bacteria to separate rare earths from a   liquid but I think there are two economical 
options. I like one more than the other. The first and most well studied is biosorption,   which is a subcategory of a 
process called adsorption. This is where ions floating around in a 
liquid attach themselves onto a solid,   biological surface. Like hair to a balloon. Adsorption happens because of a passive 
chemical or physical interaction between   the target rare earth element and something on 
the cell's outer membrane called a biosorbent. Key is that the organism doesn't have to use 
energy. In other words, the bacteria can be dead,   which helps because REEs are toxic and often 
kill bacteria at higher concentrations. Killing the bacteria might be preferable 
if we have to modify the biosorbents using   physical methods to improve their 
specificity and effectiveness. I know there may be serious ethical 
questions about killing bacteria for   capitalist profit but let us set those aside for   now. And it is not always the case 
we need to kill the bacteria first. Bacteria do not even necessarily have to be 
involved. There have been promising experiments   with biological materials like algae, fungi, 
bamboo charcoal and even leaf powder. Algae-based   methods seem particularly promising, but 
using bacteria offers various advantages. First, the bacteria can be pre-treated to be 
very selective to a particular element. Second,   the ratio of each bacteria's cell membrane 
surface area to its weight is very high. Since   biosorption happens on the cell wall, the more 
cell wall that we have available, the better. ## Bioaccumulation Another studied methodology 
has been bioaccumulation. Bioaccumulation refers to when certain 
chemicals and metals accumulate within   an organism over time. The example that 
I always think of is mercury in tuna. Bioaccumulation is different from 
biosorption because in order for   it to work the bacteria has to be alive 
and actively taking in the rare earth   elements. This makes it particularly 
difficult to study, scale and predict,   since it requires that we also understand 
the complexities of cell metabolism. Science has discovered some bacteria 
living in extreme situations that   actively interact with various metal 
and rare earth ions. We can use this. One interesting 2019 study done in South Africa 
brought up some of these bacteria up from hot   vents and cultivated them in low-concentration 
mixes containing the rare earth element europium. They discovered that the bacteria thrived 
in the presence of low levels of europium.   And electron microscope readings 
discovered the presence of small   granules of europium carbonate collected 
by the bacteria and stored inside itself. Europium is used for scintillators for X-rays 
and as a phosphor for producing the blue light   in LEDs. Before it can be used for that, 
it needs to be further refined, of course. At the heart of it though, I see some economic 
challenges with bioaccumulation. Sourcing and   growing these unique, special bacteria will 
be hard. Moreover the challenge of keeping   them alive as they slowly accumulate 
rare earths inside their bodies. ## A Promising Biosorption Option So let us go back to biosorption. Can we really 
use such a system to separate rare earths? There was a fascinating 2017 
techno-economic analysis done   by the Idaho National Laboratory. They built an 
airlift bioreactor, which is a vessel designed   to cultivate a good cell environment 
through a constant injection of air. The reactor is used to grow some bacteria 
- Caulobacter crescentus and E. coli - that   have been previously bio-engineered 
to have on their cell wall surface,   a tag that attaches to the lanthanides. Other studies have identified 
Arthrobacter nicotianae - a Gram   Positive soil bacteria sometimes found 
in cheese - or Bacillus subtilis - a   well studied bacteria used 
for industrial production. The lanthanides are a subcategory 
of 15 rare earths from lanthanum   to lutetium. It includes the most 
widely used rare earth, neodymium. The Idaho team studied several candidates 
for "feedstock" of various types, sources,   and qualities into the reactor. Candidates 
included the traditional ores, coal ash,   rare earth clays that have been leached 
with acids, and fracking wastewater. To do the biosorption, they secured 
the bacteria in biofilms on top of a   solid substrate of high density 
polyethylene discs. Having them   secured and immobilized like this makes 
it easier to remove them later on. Future   studies would move to beads rather than 
discs due to higher adsorption capacity. You load them into the reactor along with the 
REE-containing solution. Inside, the reactor   bubbles air through a chamber such that the 
discs can gently circulate around the chamber. This is done until the cells have reached 
90% of their adsorption capacity. Then   we take the discs out and then strip the 
rare earths using a citrate solution. The   biofilm discs can then be reused - about 
ten cycles before needing a new biofilm. After the rare earths are 
desorbed out of the discs,   we solidify them and then roast them to 
achieve increasingly higher purities. All of these are well-established technologies. 
The Idaho team discovered that rare earth ores had   the cheapest cost of production but the recovered 
REEs did not command high prices on the market. So surprisingly, it was the 
coal fly ash collected from   22 coal fired plants around the United 
States that was most profitable. This   was due to the presence of higher 
value REEs - scandium and cerium. ## Scandium The identifying of coal fly ash as a 
potential feedstock for certain high   value REEs was very interesting. 
But there are several caveats. The most significant item is that 90% of the REE   sale proceeds from the 2017 coal 
fly ash test came from scandium. Scandium is widely used in ceramics, glass, 
and certain steel alloys, but its market price   is volatile. Furthermore, the global market 
need is minuscule - about 10-25 tons a year. Not a lot compared to the most widely 
used rare earth - neodymium. In 2022,   we used an estimated 16,000 tons of it 
for permanent magnets alone. Would be   nice to source and process some of that locally. And the dark irony of it all 
is that scandium is one of the   few rare earths not monopolized by China. Gosh. Now, there are other feedstocks 
that we can use. For instance,   low-grade lignite coal from North 
Dakota is known to have very small   amounts of neodymium - far less than the 
ores of China's Bayan Obo mine. There   also seems to be potential in pulling REEs 
out of mining waste and electronic waste. ## Economics Biosorption has been studied for over sixty 
years, with over 13,000 published papers. However the technology - even outside 
of REE refinement - has still not yet   been widely implemented in industrial 
practice. In various feasibility studies,   costs exceed revenues especially 
when scandium prices are low. Significant cost factors include the use 
of acid in order to leach the feedstocks   before they go into the bioreactor. One 
of the feasibility studies pointed to   not only the economic benefits of using 
less acid, but also environmental ones. Second, there was the cost of sourcing 
and preparing the immobilizing biofilm   matrix for the bacteria - another 2019 study 
at Idaho National Laboratory highlighted the   cost savings of using silica nanoparticle gel 
beads over polyethylene to embed the bacteria. Third, is the general need to streamline and 
optimize the biosorption process itself. Notably,   the number of times we can reuse the 
microbe beads before needing to be   replaced. The more cycles they last, the 
more profitable the final enterprise is. None of these seem like insurmountable 
obstacles and feels like something that   some well-targeted policy might be able to solve. ## Conclusion Even if we decide that REE refinement 
by bacteria is not able to take down   the Chinese rare earths giant, it might 
be still worth pursuing for two reasons. First, is the need to build local supply 
chain independence for these valuable rare   earth elements. The threat continually 
hangs over other technology areas and   biosorption looks to be a greener 
and cheaper way to do processing. And second, we should consider them anyway 
for the sake of safety. These were built from   wastewater technologies. It is known that REEs 
are toxic and carcinogenic. Being able to get   these out of e-waste and other products 
for future reuse is a win for everyone. I hope to start seeing more work and 
efforts done in moving these rare earth   element biosorption technologies 
towards mass commercialization.