- Hey guys, this is Austin. Welcome to the launch of the iPhone XS and the XS Max. This is gonna be a fun one. Of course, not only do we
have the S model update to the standard iPhone X, but we also have the much larger Max edition. I think a lot of people
were kind of expecting this when the iPhone X first came out, but what you're getting
here is something that is much closer to the iPhone
7 Plus, 8 Plus in size. Open this guy up, and what
we're going to find is probably the exact same
thing that you'd find with every iPhone since the dawn of time; some paperwork with our obligatory Apple stickers and the Max. This is actually the first
time I've held the Max. It's big; it's pretty big. On top of having a Max edition available, there's also a new gold color for the XS as well as the XS Max. I'm usually not a fan of gold. I have to say though,
this doesn't look so bad. It's a little bit more of
a, what would you call it? It's like a taupe. I guess call it a Band-Aid color. - [Male Voice] What is a taupe? - Taupe, it's brownish, but a lot of beige. - [Male Voice] Beige. - Even though it's a much larger phone, you know what else we're
gonna find in the box? The same five-watt charger that they've been shipping since 2007. Yes, my friends, even though you've got a massive battery and a huge display, it's still going to take you like, what, two, three hours to charge the phone. For real, it's totally
ridiculous that they ship such a tiny, cheap adapter in the box when they actually sell other alternatives which will charge the iPhone much faster. If you wanna shell out
$50 for the USB-C adapter and another 20 for the
USB-C to Lightning cable, you can get your phone
charged much, much quicker. But instead, they put
this in the box, so yeah. What I like to see on
my $1,000-plus phone. The XS also does come with Apple earpods. As a surprise to no one, there's no headphone jack here. Instead, it does take
advantage of Lightning. I don't know why that
flopped open like that. What you're not going to find here is a headphone jack adapter. Yes, my friends, the
thing that's been included on iPhones for the last couple years, that 35-cent part to
manufacture little adapter that will make your headphones
work on your iPhone, not included in the box. That's gonna run you another 20 bucks. Or is it 15? - [Male Voice] I thought it was 10. - Is it 10? It's still $10; no,
they should include it. I don't mind the idea that they are still shipping a Lightning cable with USB-A, but this is an expensive phone. Why are they cutting out things? Why are they removing things when they should be making it better? If we open up the standard XS, what we're going to
find is a phone that is very, very similar to the X. What I'm mostly curious about, though, is the actual size difference. Put the XS side by side with the Max and you do get a much,
much larger display. Whereas this has a 5.8-inch panel, you're getting a full 6 1/2 inches. Do you remember the days
where a seven-inch phone was called a tablet? Look at the difference, man. This is the original
iPhone versus the Max. That's ridiculous. But you know what, it kind of works. I feel like everyone's gotten onboard with the large phone train, and
a big reason we're here is because of the good old Galaxy Note. Even though we have such a larger display, the actual footprint of the iPhone XS Max isn't really all that
much larger than, say, an iPhone 6 Plus, 7 Plus, what have you. It is going to be a little bit shorter than the Note, but it's not as crazy as I
was anticipating it to be. When it comes to telling the iPhone X apart from the XS, they're very similar except for one major difference. If you look on the bottom of the phone, where the X is nice and symmetrical with the speaker and the microphone, the XS has a little bit of an antenna line which cuts that short. The main reason for this is that it should give you better reception. We're actually going to test
that a little bit later. Supposedly we're going to
be getting more antennas for better Wi-Fi, as
well as LTE reception. But it looks a little ugly. Not sure how this passed
Jony Ive and the boys. There's also a slight difference in the size of the camera bump. To illustrate this, I have
a XS Max in a XS Max case. You can see that it goes
pretty much fully around the camera, but if you put an iPhone X in a XS case, you can see it's going to be a little bit misshapen,
specifically on the bottom. It doesn't quite line up. Most iPhone X cases should work with a XS and vice versa,
but you might wanna keep an eye on that. The camera bump is going to
be just a little bit bigger. One of the big upgrades this year is the A12 Bionic chip. They've claimed some pretty decent performance improvements,
but the first thing I've noticed as soon as I open up Geekbench is we have more memory. Before, we had three gigs
of RAM on the iPhone X, but this year we have four gigs on both the XS as well as the Max. Interesting. Whereas the X is a little bit slower than the XS Max as well as the XS, it's by a pretty small difference. The single core is a little bit higher, but the multi-core is
actually very similar. The days of saving 50%
CPU performance every year might just be over. Although to be fair, these
are still the fastest phones I've ever tested, so yeah. One of the bigger upgrades this year is with the camera. The main shooter has been upgraded on both the XS as well as the
Max with a larger sensor, and it also has Smart HDR functionality. Wow, look at the difference in range. So with the XS, we're
actually getting all of the detail on your
face, whereas the Max is blowing out not only Matt's
face in the background, but also stuff like your cheek. The portrait mode also does
look a fair bit better. Not only do we have that
better dynamic range, but we're also seeing
that it's a little bit more accurate as far as cutting people out of the photo, and
the ability to adjust the depth of field after
the fact is really nice. It's not perfect; definitely
has some more work to do, but it does look a lot
more natural than the X as well as the 8 Plus. So is the iPhone XS Max worth it? You're gonna have to
stay tuned, my friends, because we're going to be doing an entire video all about that. Make sure to subscribe and stay tuned, otherwise you're gonna
have to spend $1,100 on a phone you might not like.