- [Ken] Austin I have Windows 11. (dramatic music)
- What do you mean? - [Ken] I have Windows 11. Look it's Windows 11! - Oh that's leaked you can't. - [Ken] What what what? - I gotta get at it! That's illegal. - [Ken] Wanna be an accomplice? - No. There's video evidence of this. I want nothing to do with it. Windows 11 is almost here and it is going to make your games better. So not only are there
actual functional builds of Windows 11 floating around
the internet right now, but there's also a major
Windows event next week where they're teasing
some big new features. (Austin coughs)
Windows 11. It's Windows 11, surprise surprise. What comes after 10? So this stuff has been
pretty heavily teased. Not only did the Windows channel post a suspiciously long 11
minute video the other day of slow-fi Windows startup sounds, which sound very bizarre. - Sounds like bagpipes. (Austin humming) (Austin laughing) - [Matt] Oh no, no! - If these teases aren't
subtle enough for you Microsoft have also
listed the end of support for Windows 10 being in October 2025. So you know, the most
recent up-to-date version of Windows 10 that
everyone's running right now, oh yeah that's gonna be gone. Historically it is not an easy task to get people to move to a
newer version of Windows. In fact six years later only about 78 percent of
people are on Windows 10, where still a lot of people are using something
like Windows 7 or Vista. There are still people who
are using Vista out there. But if you look at gamers it's actually a much much faster ramp. 96 percent of Steam users are running Windows 10 at this point, which is actually pretty impressive. But if you think that Windows 10 is only gonna have a couple
more years of support they've gotta move to 11 quickly. And I don't think it's going
to be a massive overhaul. There's certainly going
to be some major upgrades, but we actually already have an idea of what Windows 11 is going to look like. Beyond all the leaks, because they've been talking
about it for a little while. The Sun Valley Upgrade. There are two sides to this. First of all are the leaked builds of Windows 11 floating around. But on top of that there are also a lot of
features inside of Windows 11 that are currently actually available if you are a Windows Insider. Now these leaks originated on Baidu with some screen shots. However they were
corroborated by The Verge. It seems like Windows Central actually has this running on a Surface. Now these are certainly not
completed versions of Windows 11 which I assume is going
to ship later this year. But they do give us a look at some of the major new features. Namely the fact that the taskbar has actually now been centered, very much like a Dave2D
video had recommended. As well as things like new icons and even these show that
there are straight up Windows 11 Pro like names in there right. There's just no question that this is a brand
new version of Windows. The thing that this really reminds me of is actually something on
the Mac OS side of things. So last year there was Mac OS 11 Big Sur. Now there was certainly some
major changes under the hood. But for most people it
was a visual overhaul. Now that is obviously something
that we are going to see at least in some part on Windows 11. In fact a lot of the UI
stuff that we're seeing not only with things like
new animations, new icons, and some different redesign functions, reminds me a lot of Windows 10 X. Now if you're not familiar, this was a more modern version of Windows, more mobile focused version of Windows. They originally started talking
about a couple of years ago. This was originally going to launch on things like dual screen devices. It was almost gonna
look like Chrome books. But ultimately it sounds like
they sort of shut that down in favor of bringing a lot
of that modern UI interface over to just the mainstream
version of Windows. And it really does show. This strategy makes sense to me. Windows 10 X never really
felt like it was the future. I mean obviously they always
need to try to upgrade and improve Windows. They can't just be running
Windows 10 or Windows 11 forever. But what I do think is a little
bit of a concern is some of the mobile features that are leaking into the
main version of Windows. That might sound odd, because obviously Windows
has a great history of supporting a wide range of hardware. But I do think that there is
a little bit of a concern. Not so much for me, but I
think for a lot of people who are seeing these screen shots who are worried that Windows
11 is being watered down. That is is less than Windows 10 was, that it's sort of like, oh this is like, you know the
80 percent version of Windows. I don't think that's necessarily true. I think for Microsoft
it makes a lot of sense to make one operating system
that runs from everything from a 100 dollar Chromebook competitor, all the way up to a high end gaming PC. And of course the wide range of hardware that's in the middle. But I think we have to be realistic here. Most people these days
are using mobile devices. And when you have all these features on your iPhone and on your Android device people do kind of expect it to work on the desktop side of the laptop or the tablet side of things. - [Ken] When little Timmy
grows up with an iPad, he needs to use something that's a little more
intuitive that he's used to. - Yep. But before we get into all of
the potential possibilities of Windows 11, let's talk about the stuff that we know will be in the
next version of Windows no cap. See I said, a thing that the TikTok-ers
say, I'm cool again. No cap. So there are some major
improvements for gamers. First and foremost,
starting with HDR support. Now HDR is not exactly a
new feature for Windows. However at this point it's a little bit of a patchwork set up. Different monitors, different applications will support HDR at various levels, and it's never been particularly
smooth and consistent going between them. However that should be a lot more seamless with this new version of Windows. On top of that there's much better support for multiple GPU's in the system. No no, I'm not talking about
some cross fire SLI set up. We're mostly referring to is the fact that Windows has a lot
more fine grain control over if you say have integrated graphics and dedicated graphics on
like a laptop or a desktop. Imagine you're playing a
lighter title like Among Us which you don't necessarily need to run at 400 frames per second. You can have that running specifically on integrated graphics which would give you
much better battery life. It's nice to have this built
directly into Windows now. Now Windows 11 is clearly absorbed a lot of the look of Windows 10 X, which was again that more mobile
focused version of Windows. But there are also some features it's going to be taking from it as well. Think about things like voice typing, something that's pretty
standard on like iOS and Android will be coming to Windows 11. There is some better security features. You'll still be of course able to download and run
whatever games you want or whatever apps you want. And on top of that there's one
other feature I've forgotten. What is it Matt? - [Matt] Touch screen. - Touch screen. Well that's not new. But you can now get better
touch screen support in Windows 11 because the
mobile future is here. There's some other updates
which I do think will be nice. So the virtual desktop
support has been overhauled. So not only can you better
support multiple monitors, you can actually have
different desktop backgrounds for each of your virtual desktops. On top of that there are a
lot of smaller things right. So there's better camera support. So things that used to have to dive into like your web can settings now will be directly into the
Windows setting screen. There is a new font, which apparently looks better? I think it looks the
same or about the same. You can also restart Windows
and restart your apps at the same time. Similar to the way a lot of, actually Mac OS has done
this for a long time. But when you restart, it's
like hey do you wanna open up all of your apps at the
exact same way as before? There's a better clipboard manager. They supports emojis, they
moved the disc manager from the old school tool--
- The emojis. Oh my god.
- I know, it's very revolutionary.
- Yes I'm tired of copy and pasting smiley face. It just putting in text smiley face. (Austin laughs) - Okay look look look, there are a lot of updates for Windows 11. But I think the big question here is what does Windows 11 really do? They've got some secrets. And we'll have to wait for
another week to find them out. - [Ken] I might have the build. - What you have the. You have a leaked version of Windows? - [Ken] I might have it yeah. I might've--
- Well I would never use a leaked version of Windows. I. Why would I do that? Look how clean my hands are right now. I love our friends on the Windows team and appreciate all the hard work they do. If Ken wants to dabble on the dark side that's none of my concern. So for the record I would never condone anyone using leaked
supposedly authentic software. But Ken how is Windows 11?
(upbeat music) I theoretically hypothetically. - Hypothetically. - Hypothetically. - I think he would theoretically say that it is more or less the same. (Austin laughs)
- That's it. - Well okay look.
- Thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe to the channel for more or less the same. - Look look look. The builds that are out there
right now that are leaked are not really that much. There will probably be more features that'll be you know added on as you know time develops. But as of right now a lot of the things that I may or may not have seen. - Hypothetically. - Hypothetically. Are more or less visual. So obviously there's a
new direction going about. It's a lot cleaner, a lot more rounded shapes
in regards to buttons, and a lot more transparency and color. It's very user friendly. It looks very shiny. It takes a lot of queues, maybe not specifically from the Mac, but I think now it's a little more toe to toe now or--
- Absolutely. - Toe to toe, head to head?
- Toe to toe. Head to head? These all work. Those are all good.
- Yeah yeah good. - So outside of any potential knowledge we may or may not have of
the actual leaked version of Windows 11, there
are I think some things that we can speculate about. Because obviously this has
not been announced yet. And while there are certain things that we pretty much know for sure, whether it's in the leaked build or whether it's in the
Windows insider stuff, what I wanna talk about are
the things that we expect. Because I'm gonna just play my cards here, I don't think it's a huge surprise, Windows 11 should be a free update. Now I don't know that--
- I would hope so. - I don't know that, they could charge it. They could be 20 bucks or whatever. But it seems to me, like we're
almost gonna pass the era of charging for an
operating system update. I mean even think about when
Windows 10 first came out, that was a free upgrade
for a lot of people if you had a what like somewhat recent, seven or eight system or whatever. Can I hit you with
something that's absolutely not going to happen but
I want it to happen? - What's that? - Can I run Windows 11 on an Xbox? - I would love to run Windows 11 on Xbox, much like how I wanted Windows 10 to be on the Xbox Series X. - Well okay so here's the thing, this is not gonna happen because Microsoft wants to sell Xboxes and not eat into high MPC sales. But I mean, how cool would it be, you buy a 500 dollar Series
X and it comes with Windows. I mean it's already kinda running Windows, like it's definitely physically possible.
- Okay so now we're going into less speculation--
- Speculation talk, no this is speculation talk.
- Well no no no no no well no. So we're going less into speculation town and we're going more into
things that we want to see coming out of Windows 11.
- Yeah this is it this is it.
- And I would like to see Windows running on an Xbox. Now imagine the dedication that they put into the Surface and
that Windows integration and that but for the Xbox. Imagine that for gamers. - You know something else that's maybe a little bit more reasonable that I would like to
see, AirDrop for Windows. Now there are third party tools, there's Bluetooth bla bla bla. I just want something as
simple as AirDrop on Windows. - Yeah for the record, we're not saying actual AirDrop. We're just saying--
- No I'm saying that. I want AirDrop. Reverse engineer it.
- There's a. There's a lot wrong with that. - Come on, I'm sure it's not that hard!
- No no but it's, look. You know ideally something
that works with iOS and Android that can file drop to Windows or between Windows devices or you know whatever might have you. That would be really cool. 'Cause I actually use that
on a day-to-day basis. And that's probably one of the big reasons why I'm tied to Mac OS in the first place. Especially when doing things
like content creation. I wanna take photos on my
phone, move them into Photoshop. I wanna take videos on my phone, move them to Windows to work
in Resolve or Premiere right? - You can kinda do some of this for it was like either with the app the what is it the My Windows app or whatever it is?
- Which I have never used in my life I should
probably try it at some point just to make the argument, but. - It works well, Samsung stuff
does integrate fairly well. But I want something that's
a little bit more seamless across the board. You're right, AirDrop is a huge part of how we're able to do our jobs. And it does sort of lock us in. Some kind of AirDrop on
Windows would be nice. Beyond that though, I mean look, File Explorer still seems
old, like what we're looking at right now.
- Oh. Look. I hate for this video to be a Mac OS versus Windows comparison. You click on the
magnifying glass in Finder, you type what you want and you find it. In File Explorer it does
exactly the opposite. It gives you every registry file, every little tiny nook
and cranny in system 32 that you don't need. - So is the comparison that
Finder helps you find things, Explorer helps you explore. (drum beat)
(both laughing) - That is the best
explanation you have made in your entire life. - Here is the real question. - Do I like Mac OS more? Yes. - Okay that was not my question, but I guess that answers my question. Thank you very much for
watching this episode. Make sure to subscribe to the channel for other hot rumors and leaks. And make sure to also
ring-a-ling the ding-a-ling bell so you're always notified the next time that Ken
has a very very bad take. - I got nothing to say about that I just. - No there's, you've
just had some bad takes, I'm just saying. Hypothetically speaking.