TSMC's coming N2 process node 
is one of its most ambitious. In their 4Q2023 earnings call, 
TSMC mentioned plans for three   new N2 fabs in Hsinchu, Kaohsiung, and Taichung. Assuming those all get built, that is a lot 
of new fabs. But it's more than just that. There is also something special about 
the transistors for this new N2 process. In 2011, the semiconductor industry 
transitioned from planar transistors to 3D ones,   the now-famous FinFET. Over ten years later, TSMC 
is joining Samsung and Intel in doing it again. In this video, we are going to 
talk about the vertically-stacked,   gate-all-around, nanosheet/nanowire 
metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor. ## Beginnings So what is a transistor? Most simply 
speaking, it is a switch, actively controlled. There is a source and a drain. These are made from   doping regions of silicon with a dopant 
element implanted using an ion beam. That process is called ion implantation. In between the source and drain, we 
have the gate and the gate oxide. These sit on top of the channel and control it   through a phenomenon known 
as "capacitive coupling". When the gate receives a 
certain voltage - referred   to as the threshold voltage 
- it turns "on" or "opens". This allows the flow of electrons or   electron holes from the source 
to the drain along the channel. This control of a material's ability to conduct 
such particles is known as the "field effect". This is how the semiconductor gets its name. The   semiconductor material conducts only 
part of the time - ergo the "semi". And the transistor using the "field effect" 
means we can call it a Field Effect Transistor. Some of the first gates were made 
from metal - though many gates today   are made from polycrystalline 
silicon, which is not a metal. The metal gate and the gate oxide 
together give us “metal oxide”. So altogether now, we have the "metal oxide 
semiconductor field effect transistor",   or MOSFET. Names are surprisingly 
descriptive in semiconductor land. There are many types and designs of 
transistors out there with varying   tradeoffs. While the MOSFET design 
is the most common, others do exist. For example, the industry largely used 
bipolar junction transistors. These are   named for having three regions of alternatively   doped silicon or germanium. Three 
regions, two borders or junctions. In an integrated circuit or IC,   we use transistors to design logic gates and 
other blocks like for memories. For instance,   the SRAM that serves as an IC's embedded memory 
is made up of a varying number of transistors. ## Short Channel Effects In a perfect world, the 
transistor switches instantly. And when that transistor gate is closed, 
then there is zero current flowing through   it. And when the gate is open, then there 
is no resistance slowing down the flow. But our world is imperfect. And though 
I like to say that that is where much   of its beauty comes from ... when it comes to 
transistors we do somewhat demand perfection. After decades of shrinking the 
size of the original planar MOSFET,   we started suffering a series of 
what we call short-channel effects. Short channel effects come in two forms. First, threshold voltage, 
or the voltage at which the   gate opens and creates the current 
between the source and the drain. When the channel was longer,   the threshold voltage was constant and 
independent of any external factors. But when the channel got shorter, we discovered 
that the threshold voltage was no longer constant   and independent. Instead, it was decreasing - 
or "rolling off" - as the channel shortened. This in turn exacerbates something 
called "sub-threshold leakage". When   the gate's voltage lowers below the threshold,   it is supposed to cleanly shut down the 
current between the source and drain. It doesn't always, and the residual current - like 
a dripping faucet - is called the "sub-threshold   leakage". The lower the threshold voltage is, the 
higher the sub-threshold leakage gets in turn. The second major manifestation 
of short channel effects in a   transistor is "Drain-Induced 
Barrier Lowering" or DIBL. This is where the source and the drain are 
now so close together that electrons from   the source can diffuse into the drain - often 
by burrowing under the gate like a rabbit. DIBL results in a tiny parasitic current flow,   so the transistor is using power even 
when it is on "standby" and doing nothing. Multiply these two short channel effects over   billions of transistors and you got 
a serious power consumption problem. ## Going Multigate Short channel effects originate 
from interference via the electric   fields coming out from the source and the drain. The original planar gate sits on top of 
the channel - touching it on just one side. An electric field projects from that 
planar gate in one direction - down   through the channel and into the silicon. 
This controls the channel's behavior. But the source and drain project 
electric fields of their own,   and those are now encroaching horizontally into 
the channel - "stealing" away the gate's control. Kind of like loud talk coming from your neighbors   in a bar messing with your attempts 
to say sweet romantic things to Siri. For years, the industry knew this 
was coming. But for a long time,   they were able to ameliorate Short 
Channel effects by lowering the voltage,   heavily doping the channel, or reducing 
the depths of the source and the drain. Another big move was replacing the gate 
oxide from its prior silicon dioxide to   one with a higher dielectric constant or 
K. This strengthens the gate's capacitance,   thus making the electric field projected by the 
gate more powerful so to dominate the channel. Famously, Intel used High-K dielectrics like 
hafnium oxide in 2007 for their High-K metal   gate. This use helped pave the way for advanced 
atomic layer deposition techniques down the line. Unfortunately, those methods have run 
their course and thus an entirely new   structure is needed to wrestle back control 
of the channel from the source and the drain. In 1984, two Japanese researchers Sekigawa and   Hayashi published a paper proposing what 
they called "multi-gate" transistors. The authors proposed a transistor with two 
connected gates. They called it a "double-gate   MOS" transistor or XMOS since it looked like 
to them the Greek letter Xi from the side. This brings us to the FinFET, which 
intensifies the gate's control over the   channel by wrapping it around the channel 
- the eponymous "fin" - on three sides. The first commercial FinFET devices were 
produced by Intel and hit the market in   2011 at the 22 nanometer process 
node. TSMC and Samsung followed a   few years later in 2013 with their 16 
and 14 nanometer nodes, respectively. For more information about 
the FinFET and its origin,   I did a video about it a little 
while ago. Go check it out. ## Gate All Around The GAAFET iterates on the concept of the FinFET 
by wrapping the gate entirely around the channel. Ergo the name, "gate all around" 
- which first came about in a 1990   paper by Jean Pierre Colinge, M. 
H. Gao, A. Romano, and others. Actually, the name describes less 
a specific transistor structure   but rather a whole class of them. The 
big similarity being that their gates   completely surround the channel 
rather than on just three sides. Within the overall GAAFET category we have two 
big sub-categories: Nanowires and Nanosheets.   The names describe the shape of the channel - 
nanowire channels are rounder than sheets. And   for some reason they remind me of steel 
rods punching through concrete blocks. The nanowire and nanosheet physical structures 
offer their own trade-offs. For instance,   the nanowires’ smaller channels give 
their gates more control over electron   flow. But it also impedes the flow 
of electrons when the gate is open. This means that we likely have to stack these 
nanowires. But only so far because if we stack   too many too high, they might interfere with 
the interconnect layers built above them. ## Fabricating a GAAFET The process flow for creating a FinFET is largely 
the same as those for making planar transistors. That's important. The semiconductor   industry on the whole is highly 
evolutionary, not revolutionary. The most significant new step was making these 
dense, highly regular bunches of fins. They are   patterned onto the silicon substrate using a 
certain type of double-patterning lithography. After that, we create the wells that 
would eventually help make the source   and the drain. We add a temporary dummy gate 
to help us build the rest of the gate stack,   electrically isolate the transistor, demolish 
the dummy gate and build the real gate. With this, the front end of the 
process is done and we can now   start adding interconnects for the back end. I mention all this because the GAAFET's 
process flow evolves again from the FinFET's. Using a deposition technique called epitaxy, 
we add several layers of silicon and silicon   germanium on top of the silicon substrate. This 
is sometimes referred to as a super-lattice. After that, we cut down through those 
layers of silicon and silicon-germanium   in order to produce a "Fin" 
- much like the FinFET's fin. Special attention has to be paid to keeping 
the multilayer stack free of deformations. As   well as giving it a "high aspect ratio" 
as in height-to-width - very tall and   skinny. These are already important 
considerations for FinFET fins. To prevent electrical cross-talk and also 
to help make nice fins, we do "Shallow   Trench Isolation". We pattern trenches 
around the transistor using lithography,   dig them using reactive ion etch, 
and then fill them with oxide. Anyway, when that is done, we can 
etch away the silicon-germanium,   leaving the silicon layers suspended between the 
source and the drain. This draws from the world   of MEMS, where we use "sacrificial 
layers" to suspend tiny structures. To build the gate and the gate oxide,   we use atomic layer deposition to 
surround the exposed channel wires. I covered ALD in a prior video. 
It is a precise method of applying   layers of metals or chemicals - 
one atom thick layer at a time. The big challenge with that is correctly 
aligning the gate material around the   channel. Once this is done, we can 
build the rest of the gate around the   channels like as with FinFET and planar 
transistors. There, you have a GAAFET. ## Gains Just like when the industry switched 
from planar transistors to FinFETs,   the Gate-All-Around transition offers benefits. One very significant benefit is the power 
draw. A 2020 study found that - when   it is turned off - a nanosheet 
gate-all-around transistor draws   about 20-35% less power than a FinFET, 
depending on the device's dimensions. In terms of speed and density, 
the gains are not as dramatic.   For speed, it is about 10% at 
constant power. And for density,   it is about 15% depending on your IC's mix 
of transistors - analog, digital, or SRAM. I feel like the power gains would be 
very interesting to chip designers of   mobile and AI processing applications. The 
former because power is constrained. The   latter because of the sheer amount of 
compute needed for modern AI devices. No wonder then that TSMC management said 
that they are seeing "a much higher level   of customer interest and engagement at N2 
as compared with N3 at a similar stage".   GAAFETs will likely take existing AI 
accelerator chips a major step forward. ## Race to the Gate TSMC has pretty much dominated 
the 10+ years of the FinFET era. So much so that Samsung and Intel have 
basically waved the white flag on that,   moving ahead to Gate-all-around in 
an apparent attempt to grab share. Samsung really led that drive into GAAFET. 
They have been doing research on it since   at least 2003, with their multibridge-channel 
metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor. They first began offering their GAAFET 
process - named SF3E - some time in   mid-2022. While the node did ship some products,   those seemed to have mostly been crypto 
miner chips. No big digital logic products. Later in 2023, Samsung released 
their second-generation GAAFET node,   SF3. We shall see the pickup 
amongst foundry customers. Intel's named their GAAFET offering "RibbonFET" 
or "Nanoribbon" or whatever have you. The first process node of theirs to use it is 20A,   an internal node scheduled for 
mid-2024. After that is 18A,   the big process node that everyone expects will 
bring Intel back to the leadership position. Intel's GAAFET processes - 20A and 
18A - include a second interesting   innovation - Backside Power. This is where we move   the power lines to underneath the silicon 
substrates - opening additional space. TSMC's N2 will not have backside power until 
about a year later with their second generation   N2 processes - N2P and N2X. Many people 
see this as a major advantage for Intel. Semiconductor industry watchers have long looked   to the FinFET-to-GAAFET transition as a 
potential turning point in the foundry   competition. The first to ship with 
volume wins - or so the story goes. Only time will tell, but I do want to note 
close similarities between the process flows   for the FinFET and GAAFET. Being very good at the 
former will also help you be good at the latter. ## Conclusion The Planar Transistor lasted 50 
years as a leading-edge architecture. The FinFET lasted about ten years 
on the leading edge. It is hard to   say how long the GAAFET will be. 
So what is next after the GAAFET? The semiconductor industry's 
premier R&D institute is imec,   located out in Belgium. In addition 
to the GAAFET nanosheets or nanowires,   they are looking at other transistor 
structures to take us even further beyond. One promising design is the forksheet. Imagine a 
bundle of vertically stacked sheets, and then put   a wall down through the middle of those sheets. 
A forksheet is only a few evolutionary steps   away from the GAAFET - which is good - and also 
offers higher gate control - which is very good. And then after that, imec has presented the 
Complementary FET or CFET - where we fold the   nanosheets or the fins on top of one another. 
This one would make a true 3D transistor. Anyway, the industry has not even started 
thinking about bringing these things into   production yet. But the work shows that 
people are forever looking ahead. Right   now though we look towards to N2 
and its brethren. Coming in 2025.