- Back Market claim that they
are a platform to allow you to purchase refurbished tech,
(cash register dings) which is not only better for the environment since
it's not a brand new piece of tech, but importantly, it's
also good for your wallet. So let's take a look at Back Market, see if we can get some
good deals first of all, and second of all, is
this really the best spot to buy your refurbished tech
(whip snaps) (record scratches) or are we going to give you a PSA on why it's a scam like most
of the rest of these sites? So a global marketplace for reborn tech, it's premium refurbished tech, so let's keep that phrase in mind. Premium refurbished tech.
(titles slap) They do have a wide
variety of things to do, so we got good deals. iPhone, Samsung Galaxy, MacBook, AirPods, video game consoles,
iMac, Windows laptops, I mean, it looks like
pretty much everything, and we also have the most wanted, so we've got ourselves
MacBooks, PS5s, lightnings, iPhones with brand new battery. Actually, that's something interesting. So this is an iPhone 12
with a brand new battery. They're very clear that
it is a brand new battery. So with this, it's verified refurbished, which means that it is
refurbishing that you can trust. Just one out of three
sellers apply to sell on Back Market make the cut. So the way I understand it,
Back Market is a marketplace. So not all items that you purchase from Back Market are coming
from that actual company, so there're other companies who refurbish, but they do say that it's guaranteed by a minimum 25-point inspection
by industry professionals and receives a one-year warranty. Okay, the one year warranty is a big deal. Most refurbished pieces of tech come with like a 30-day return policy. You know, there's very little
if any warranty attached. I'm certainly willing to pay more if I get myself a one-year
warranty, so that's good. We also have a very clear
breakdown of the condition. So fair is 381, good is
399, and excellent is $410. So if I buy fair, it's some
slight scratches or dents. Good is a few faint signs of wear but not noticeable more
than 20 inches away. Excellent is like new,
no scratches visible from eight inches away. Time to get the ruler out and take a look to see
how good these things are. So for 349, I can get
myself a Surface Pro 6, which does appear to come
with a keyboard, right? And it's in the photo, it says QWERTY. Man, I just, this is the one area where their communication's
not super clear. Do we gamble? Do we try to get the Surface and hope it comes with a keyboard? Let's do it. (slaps on table) Ha, you know what? This one actually may be cool. The fourth gen iPod Touch. So I bought an iPod Touch fourth gen for the channel back in like 2010, but I didn't have the money for it, so I borrowed like 200 bucks from my dad, bought the iPod at Walmart. I'm not even gonna exaggerate, I think I made like 12 videos
on this thing in 24 hours and then returned it. You know, maybe it's time for me to buy an iPod Touch fourth gen and not return it this time. Maybe that's a good idea. Ooh, maybe we pick up a couple of used consoles as well, because this would be a
direct DKOldies competitor. 70 bucks for a fair condition Game Boy or $100 for good. That's definitely better than some of the like the player
packs that DKOldies sell. I think I've got everything I need to place a substantial
order at Back Market. Let's see exactly how clean and how refurbished
these items really are. Okay my friends, Back
Market has delivered, all my items except for one. So I did also, in addition to these, order an iPod Touch fourth generation, which that order was canceled,
although I did get a refund and they just said, "Hey,
they were out of stock." So fair enough. I will give Back Market some props. We ordered all this stuff last week. Every single item showed
up I think within six days. Six days, so shipping was pretty quick. In fact, two items showed up the next day, like less than 24 hours later. Oh, (laughs) our Razer Kishi. As with pretty much all refurbished sites, they're gonna give you a
quality level to expect. This is excellent, the only
excellent condition item that I have, so I'm curious to see how really excellent it is. I personally am actually a big fan of buying a controller for your phone. I just don't love using touch
controls for most titles. This allows me to, I mean
you can play cloud games, but also you can play local stuff, and the downsides here are
pretty minimal in comparison to the amount of money that you're saving. The controller, I will
immediately say, feels quite nice. It's a little bit wide,
but it's not too bad. All right, are we go
flat up Eau Rouge Ken? Are we going flat? A regular 911?
- Gonna go flat on Eau Rouge? - Ah, no. What, no one else went flat. Why didn't anyone else go flat? Oh, okay, all right. You know what? I think that this controller's great, and I think that everyone needs to learn how to take it flat in a regular road car. - [Matt] You can get a V2, Kishi V2 refurbished
- Kishi, yep. - [Matt] from Amazon, $65. - I would still save
my 25 bucks, honestly. 'Cause like the thing
is, for a controller, I don't really care about a
lot of the bells and whistles. I just want a physical set of controls that I can plug into my
phone and it just works. And that is exactly what I've got here, and honestly, I care more
about saving the money than getting a slightly nicer experience. I'm actually happy with this. Let's move on to our next one. I think I might know what
this one is based on the size and shape, but let's investigate. - [Matt] That looks like a bicycle. - Excuse me? Ah, our Surface. Okay, so if I've got the keyboard, I'll be mostly happy. If I don't have the
keyboard, very much not. So I spent $350 on this,
and it is in fair condition, and there's a keyboard, hey, okay. All right, well that's just everything. Nicely padded, I will say. What the, what is this? Do you see this? It's like got indents on the back. Wait, wait, wait, oh. This is not the actual surface. It's a skin. It's a silver skin to go
over how it was scuffed. But I'm actually okay
with them doing this, because if I'm refurbishing something and it comes in scuffed, it's
not like I wanna get rid of it if it's functional, but also most people aren't
gonna wanna buy something which has been, you know,
scratched up a bunch, so if I can just slap a skin on it and call it a day, that's
actually like, that's reasonable, like I'm okay with that. - [Ken] That's a bbrand. - bbrand? (laughs) I will say though,
yeah, so this Alcantara, it's definitely seen better days. It's a little scuffed, although a lot of this is just remnants from the box I think. Yeah, it's definitely been like well used, but honestly, it is clean enough. - Alcantara is one of those ones, I don't think I could
ever get a used Alcantara, because all the sweat and the-- - Like, the amount of thighs that this has sat on.
- Like, oh, Austin's. (laughs)
- Just soaking up them thighs. - Like--
- Yeah, oh. - Let's take a look on
the inside, shall we? Again, keep in mind, fair
condition, so you know, might, some scratches, but, oh no, that's actually,
that's really good. Wow, that's a damn clean screen. Yo, is Back Market good? Look, I had like good vibes
from the jump with Back Market. Like the website was pretty well designed,
(notification dings) they had good information on products, shipping was fast, pricing
was a little bit expensive, but not hugely so. I'm willing to pay a premium if I get slightly nicer items instead of the crapshoot that it normally is. This looks like it's in good shape. Lemme fire it up and see. Let's not get too excited,
but this looks good. Okay, so we got Windows
10 and it has been wiped. Now lemme take, oh no, no, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope. That screen's super jacked up. You see that? You see that? So I see a big white dot
there which is not coming off and a couple white dots
here and white dots here. Ooh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
- I'm thinking a pixel, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. - It's also die, it's flickering. - [Matt] Yeah. - So I don't think, the
battery's dead to be fair, but I moved it a little bit and the Surface connector
started flickering and it restarted. I'm just gonna have to admit
to myself at some point that refurbished tech is bad and that no one should ever buy it. We're gonna just disconnect the keyboard. The screen don't work. It just does not, there's no touch ability
for this whatsoever. This is not okay. The dead pixels by
themselves, thumbs down. But the fact that the
touchscreen does not work on a Surface, massive L. I am going to return this, go
through the customer service, and I will see you on the other side on whether or not they fix it or whether or not I'm gonna just deeply
regret my life decisions like usual. So I did go through the process
of returning the Surface. So to give Back Market
a little bit of credit, it was pretty straightforward. Took me like a minute online
to file a return request, they gave me a prepaid label. They also offered if I wanted
to jump on a video call to troubleshoot the issue, but a dead touchscreen with burned out pixels was not something that could be solved via a video call. A few days later, I got an email saying, "Hey, we were unable to fix the Surface, "we're gonna give you a full refund," and that was that. So I don't wanna give them like huge props for doing the sort of
bare minimum when it comes to returning a broken item
that I shouldn't have gotten in the first place, but if
there's any positive takeaway, I'll say that Back Market did make the process
fairly straightforward. It's hard to ask for much more, besides sending me a Surface that worked out of the box, but. Next up, what do we have here? Surely something that
works flawlessly, right? Oh, it's not an Xbox, it's just chilling. Okay, so this is in fair condition. Oh good lord, okay, come on,
come on, come on, okay, ah. Dude, I forget how heavy Xbox Series, ah. Oh god, that's fair. That's fairly fair. The weird thing is, I
don't know why the top, oh, you know what it is? No, I know. Someone put it like this and
they like put controllers and stuff on top of it. That's why this part's all scuffed. I think that's what happens. The front is actually decent. I would say, if this works,
you can either just not care, 'cause keep in mind that
we got this for $430, so a pretty decent discount
over a brand new Series X. If this really bothers you, I would consider maybe
getting either a dbrand or one of like the Xbox little shells, but let's be honest, it's a black console. I'm gonna stick it under my TV. I don't really care
that much, so not great, but if it functions, it's not
the end of the world and... Huh, well that is a controller. - On Amazon right now, you
can get a renewed Series X. - [Austin] But it's Amazon renewed. - [Matt] For $399. - What? Oh. If I'm getting higher quality, like better tested items from
Back Market than other sites, then that makes sense, I'm willing to pay a premium for that. What I'm seeing here though is that like something like this, nothing about this seems like
it is more premium in anyway. This seems like exactly the
kinda stuff that I would get by buying refurbished from Walmart or Amazon or even GameStop,
so that's my concern. Okay, so I was able to set the Xbox up and unfortunately we
didn't get it on camera, but it actually told me
that I have two years of Xbox Game Pass Ultimate included. It just activated and
it is on the account. Oh yeah, there we go. Perfect, see? This Xbox console comes with 24-month Xbox Game Pass Ultimate. Which, hang on, how much is that worth? - [Matt] Over $400. - Okay, cool. I have no idea why it
came with this, but sweet. Okay, but hang on, but
before we get too excited, even though that was a
really, really good thing to have included, let's
actually load up a disc and see if it actually works. - [Matt] Who cares about the disc? You got 24 months of Game Pass. - Yeah, exactly, who needs to play games? Now let's see if this
thing actually works. I hear disc noises. - [Matt] I think you gotta
go to the home screen. Oh, no. - Hey. Why is it black? Hey. - [Matt] Ooh, Minecraft music. - Ah. Look at that. - [Matt] Go slap a tree. - Let's celebrate. Oh god, I don't know any
of the controls for this. Okay, well, things back on the up. See, look at this. We're going on a journey together. There's the ups and the downs and the ups, and hopefully lots more ups after this. Ups, ups, ups. All right, we've got ourselves
the N64, and the Game Boy? We'll find that one out in just a second. Okay, so this was in good condition. Actually, these both are. And I'm sure that they will be good and I'm sure that we will
have no problems whatsoever. - [Matt] How much did you pay for that? - $140, which is actually
roughly equivalent, we were looking it up,
it's roughly equivalent to DKOldies pricing. I would say this seems like
it's in pretty good shape. A little scuffed, but not too bad. Importantly, we also do have
a first-party controller, something that DKOldies
typically upcharges you for. Now the thing is, I don't know
exactly what they had to do to refurbish this, but there's
no warranty sticker anywhere, there's nothing else, it
just seems like a very clean, straightforward N64. Let's give it a try, shall we? Oh. Wait, what? What, well, okay. Hey.
- Nice. - 'Kay. - [Ken] What game are you playing? - Cruis'n USA. Oh wait, is it,
- Yeah, buddy. - Oh wait, it's glitching. Lemme restart it again. - [Ken] Try the other game. Like, we can't discount the fact that it might just be the game. - 'Kay, well this, I will immediately say, has not crashed on me at all, so. Well, okay, I will say N64
does seem to be working, so maybe we actually were just
having a Cruis'n USA issue. Okay, so this is fine. Why don't we take a look at our Game Boy? What could go wrong? Now, I actually did a video on a Play it Loud Game Boy
just like this back in 2010, 2011?
- Before fire or after fire? - That's years before fire. That's long-hair Austin. Ooh, no.
- Hey guys, this is Austin. (both laughing) - Hey guys, this is Austin, and today I'm here with a
review of the original Game Boy. Now the gremlins are doing their thing. I purchased this in
good condition for $100. The Game Boy that I bought for that video, I bought for five bucks back in the day. ♪ You're old ♪ ♪ You're old ♪ - Look at the screen, look how scratched and scuffed the screen is. Even like, it's clear plastic
and it's like already scuffed. I mean, that at the very
least needs a new screen lens, at the very least. Do you guys see how bad that is? - [Matt] It's almost as bad as when Old Man McClary had to
close down the general store. (laughing) - [Austin] It's definitely been well used. The thing is though is that
like, look at like, (sighs) look, the Game, the Boy is rubbed off. (laughing) It's Game Y. - Could have said literally anything else. (Pokemon Red title music) Okay, now I look at it head-on,
the screen is so scratched. So it depends on the way you look at it, but like, so there's a
big scratch along here and there's a lot of
scratches like literally in the top left where all
your text fields would be. Now, if you're not
familiar with using a DMG, this screen is truly awful. Like, just look at how
smeary the entire image is. Especially for something like this, like obviously once you get
into like a battle, it's fine, but like it just, it
looks like, just like poo. I mean it works. I will give them, it works. My concern here is that I don't know if this is necessarily good. I would say it's more acceptable, mostly because of the
scratches on the screen. Next up, let's take a look at what I believe is
our iPhone refurbished. So this is a fair condition
iPhone 12 that comes to us at the low, low price of $381, which is certainly more
expensive than you would expect for a iPhone 12, but fresh
battery's not nothing. Some fairly deep scratches on the screen. Well actually no, I take that back. They look deep. I actually can't feel them, but certainly, noticeable scratches. Some chips along the edge. In fact, actually quite a bad one there. It looks like someone did
not wear a case on this. Oh, and there's also some
scratches around the camera lens, but fair condition I actually
think is a pretty good way to describe this one. This actually is maybe a
little nicer than fair. So I finished setting up the phone. I haven't really seen any red flags. The screen seems like it's in good shape, Face ID works and whatnot, but what I do wanna do is
check the battery health, which is here in Battery Health. 100%, boom, okay. So I will just believe them that there's a fresh battery, because especially with an iPhone 12, there's no way that if
this was not replaced, you would be anywhere close
to 100% at this point. And this is a test of the
camera on the iPhone 12, which I would say still
holds up pretty well today. I'm kind of a fan of this. I mean yeah, we did pay $381, but considering that this is, what, half the price, even a
little less than it was new, I don't love the condition, I would probably have spent a
little bit more in hindsight to get a slightly better than fair, but even fair I think is a
pretty good way to describe it. Some minor nicks and scratches, the screen's a little scuffed, but that's minor enough that
I can kinda get away with it for that kinda price, and importantly, while it's more expensive than a standard iPhone 12 refurbished, you get a brand new battery, and without a brand new battery, feel like this is not
going to last very long, but I think the standard iPhone
12 with the 60 Hz display and the new battery
should be pretty solid. Would like to move on to our next item, which should pair nicely with our brand new refurbished iPhone 12, which are a pair of Ear Juice 9000s. - [Ken] Oh, these are wefurbished? - What's up?
- Witerally. - [Ken] These are wefurbished? - [Matt] Witerally. - I regret telling you guys
that the shoot was today. I should;ve just not told you and it would've been a much quieter-- - He pays us (laughing) to sit here for hours on end. Not--
- On a Saturday. - Yeah, at like 5:00 p.m.
- It's creepiest right now. (laughing) - So these should be our AirPods
that have been refurbished. So AirPods third gen with
the MagSafe charging case, which cost, hmm $125, for used AirPods. Great.
- That doesn't sound great. - Well, would it sound
better if I told you that they're not the new AirPods but they're the AirPods 3,
which are the base model that you could probably find
on sale for like not that much? - [Matt] So brand new at
Best Buy right now, $150. - So I saved 20 bucks by
getting them pre-broken in. This is supposed to have a glossy case. It's matte because I think
they took like a magic eraser or something and like
sanded the whole thing down to get rid of the scuffs. Let's open 'em up and see. Okay, they immediately fire up. In fact, our iPhones should start to see them for pairing, and yes they do. Okay, so we'll go ahead and connect 'em. Oh, I hear the spatial. (bass note resonates)
Oh yeah, I hear the spatial already. (chill electronic music) Yo, okay. So you know what? I mean, okay, I still think the value
proposition's a little tricky with these just because
you could buy new ones that have never been inside
someone's ear holes before for a little bit more money. That being said, these
AirPods 3s are actually legit. Like, I'm impressed. I actually had quite low expectations 'cause I always think
AirPods are kind of whatever, but like those are pretty good. So I guess what's the setup with this Back Market sort
of overall experience? As with all refurbished items, it's a little bit up to
the luck of the draw. I would say our phone was fine. I would say the AirPods
are also pretty good. Some of the other items, (clears throat) Surface, not so fine, but I, (sighs) Back Market
actually did a pretty good job, like honestly. I do think, especially considering
you've got the warranty and the return policy and everything, you are getting something that's a cut above most normal
sort of Amazon, Walmart, you know, GameStop
refurbished kind of thing. Took a little bit of
a journey to get here, but as long as you're patient and are willing to take
advantage of that return policy if you get something
that's really scuffed, I'd give 'em a good rating. Good job, Back Market. Change your name though, sounds too sus.