- Welcome to our $5 million studio. Today I'm gonna give you a
full tour of our office space as well as walk you
through how we make videos. And it's all thanks to
our friends and sponsors, over at monday.com. (funky, lofi music) Hello my friends and
welcome to our office. So last time we did a tour, everything was entirely under construction and while construction is still going on, it is a lot better than it was last time. We're doing a bunch of stuff today. Very kindly monday.com
have sponsored this video. We're gonna talk a lot more
about them a little bit, but first why don't I give you
a little tour of the studio. So we started the process of looking for this building in 2021. It took us pretty much a full year to actually find the right
building, get the keys to it, go through that whole process. Like that was an entire year of my life. And then the year after
was getting it built, and so we've pretty much
been nonstop working on it and there's actually like, literally, like new rooms over here since we started. So, actually, let me
take a look around here. Once we got the process started, once we started really looking
for a much bigger spot, like we what we end up
finding, it was worth it. It just was not an easy process going from a couple of smaller loft units to an entire ass building. So if you come to here, this is all new compared to last time. So this area used to just be storage, now it's the edit den,
where all the editors work and as you can see there's a lot of
construction equipment around because we're currently in
the middle of putting AC in half the building. So if you ask me what it feels like to spend a Lamborghini
on air conditioning, I can tell you, not good. Woo, its kinda hot in here. What a great time to tell
you about the sponsor of today's video, monday.com. So while we were putting together this behind the scenes video. It felt like the perfect opportunity to trial using monday.com because, let's be real, we can
use help with not only the AC but also with our workflow. Being a creator is
heavily dependent on data, whether it's all the projects and the various pre-production steps to get to making a video or the analytics after the fact when a video goes live to understand it. And the nice thing about monday.com is that it puts everything
together in neat little graphs and even I can understand. It also boosts collaboration. I can't tell you how often
I'm walking around the office to see if a project has been done or not. Whereas with monday.com, it makes it incredibly
simple to track tasks from start to completion. But more about monday.com, a little later. This, my friends, is the conference room. So a little bit messy right
now actually, but that's fine. So this is where we do some meetings. Sometimes we have like sponsors and people come in here
and we'll have chats. This is where we usually do
like catch ups on Mondays. We also use this as a screening room. Look, I didn't want to clean
anything up for this video, this is the authentic cable management that we live with every day. This is also when we played beer pong. (ping pong ball knocks) So when we first got this office, it was built in the
late 80s, early 90s and it was all original. It was so just grungy and carpet. It just had never been taken care of. And for me it was like, oh you know it's a standalone building we don't have to worry
about, like, the sound and all this kinda
stuff and it's very big. It's way bigger than
what we need right now, but it's big enough for us to grow into, 'cause that was the number one thing. I did not want to take a leap forward and then feel like we're
crammed in a couple years later. All right, let's go say
hello to the edit team. A few months ago we
finished building this out, putting the AC in and now it's super nice. Hello gang. - Hello.
- Hello. - So this is where the editors work. As you can see it's a lot
bigger than we need right now. So there's a couch and a
TV and a bunch of stuff. It's definitely like, this is like the most
cozy vibe in the office. (upbeat music) And then, I dunno if Ken's around, I'm just gonna just take
you into Ken's office 'cause that's fine. Can you tell that this is Ken's office? - [Joanna] He'll be super happy with you that you didn't let him clean up. - Yeah, here's the thing. He knew that I was doing the studio tour 'cause I told him like 20 minutes ago. So this is all on him. Look, he has like clothes
in here, he has bags, he has stuff that he
hasn't put back since, you know, months ago. - [Joanna] Yeah, he does
have plenty of bags. - More bags than I think
that are necessary, but- I'm showing you the real Overclock. I'm not showing you the
clean perfect angle. I'm gonna show you all
the nonsense that's here. So this is our break room, if you've noticed it
doesn't look quite right. Look up in the ceiling, look
at all the stuff up here. These are all the AC units
that are not working right now, but I think we'll be up
and running next week. AC is great. I love the fact that it got hot and all of our AC units stopped working and we had to do all new AC, literally, in the entire building. (funky music) All right, what can I
roast in Matt's office? So here's the thing, Matt actually designs his office nicely. Look, he's got like his little Lego mug, he's got his R2-D2. - [Joanna] I vaguely remember him not wanting us to go in his office because he wanted to clean it up. - Oh really? He didn't want us to come in his office. - [Joanna] No.
- Oh that's unfortunate. So this is Matt's office. He doesn't want me to show it to you. There's also a lot of plushes in here. So this little spot is
where we do also meetings. So this is usually when
we're like pitching stuff. So everyone will kinda
like jump on the couch and we'll just kick around ideas for like 'oh I saw
something weird on Temu' or whatever the case is. Now, my office has evolved a lot and is still not done. But let me show you
some of the cool stuff. My neat chair. So when I really need
to get something done, I sit in this chair, it's not comfortable, but I'll put my headphones
in, lock in like some emails or writing some ideas up or whatever. Like, this is my 'Austin needs to make this
happen right now' chair. Coming over here, this is about as clean
as my office ever is. So this is my desk. My desk setup is actually
pretty straightforward. I run everything on my MacBook so I plug it in via this Thunderbolt dock to my, at this point, 8
year old LG UltraFine, which is almost dead, but I'm still using it
'cause I'm stubborn. I also have my little camera set up here. So I have my Neumann mic, going
into a Focusrite Scarlett. I also have an A7III and a 20mm lens, so I can record like TikToks
and whatnot with this as well as I can actually
record like proper videos if I just wanna like hop in and record. So if you're not familiar, I
have a lot of Pokemon cards. So I have tons and tons
of graded slabs at home, but they just sit in boxes all the time. So like usually like once a month I will take all these
cards and swap 'em out and I will just bring new ones in. So this is my, my WOTC era. This is an actual SoC
from the Xbox Series X. So when we went up in early
2020 and we did the video, as a little souvenir, they
gave us an actual chip from the Xbox Series X like six months before
the console came out. This has definitely
been like the best spot that I've ever had to work. For now let's take a look upstairs to see the real fun part, the studio. So this is gear cage. This is where we keep a lot
of our various bits and bobs of GoPros, lenses. It's not a lot 'cause, honestly, we don't have an enormous
amount of actual stuff that lives out here. Most of our actual cameras and lenses, and that kind of stuff, most of those things are
actually permanently living in studios. Various bits and bobs for rigging that I don't know how to use, but Joanna makes it seem very easy. This is our dumping station. So we have a iMac Pro here
which has 10 gig ethernet. So whenever we finish a shoot
we have all our card readers and stuff so we can plug
in and dump the footage. Wait, did you hear that? Is Ken shooting right now? Are you guys filming? So this is where the Denki
crew shoot all our videos. Ken, you wanna come and say hi? - Yes.
Hey. This is the Denki set. It's actually probably the simplest set in this whole entire building,
but we're proud of it here. We had to pause because we can hear you from
the other side of this wall, but that's okay. - Are you saying I interrupted your shoot? - Yes, you're very loud, as the audience- - [Austin] What me? - Yeah - [Austin] I've never
heard of that before. All right, make your video. I'll be loud elsewhere. - [Ken] Bye Austin.
- [Luke] Bye. - This, my friends, is storage and we got a lot of cool stuff over here. Joanna does a great job of keeping a lot of this stuff organized. But basically if you look through here there's a mixture of,
this is the Xbox Shelf and you can see we have a lot of Xboxes. Now this might seem impressive, but keep in mind, half these came from
GameStop and DKO ldies. So don't put too much stock in how many of these things actually work. The thing is, this stuff is really useful for us when we're doing videos because if we're doing a
comparison, if we're, you know, we need an Xbox game, we've got, you know, absolute bins full of
games, we've got 360s, we've got One S's, One X's, this
is the PlayStation shelf. So we've got the generations of PS5. So when the next version
of PS5 comes out and I say that it's worse, I can at least compare
it with the older ones that were better. Here is from when we
built the ultimate PSP. So we've got all kinds of
just random docks and stuff. It's funny, I feel like a huge
chunk of what we do in videos is just trying to track
down weird cool tech, stuff that's, you know boxed original from like
10, 20, 30 years ago. So we have a lot of accessories and we really hold onto them because we're constantly using them for building the ultimates or Wish videos or whatever the case is. Something slightly cooler
is we've got the PS TV, which we pull out mostly
when we're doing, like, period correct videos like
the PS3 and whatnot. But this is the PS3 TV. I mean technically it's just HDMI, but it actually supports
3D, which is really neat. We've got bins of devices. So we've got an entire two bins of phones and these bins are heavy, so I'm not gonna bring
it all the way down. But as you can see we've
got them expertly organized we've got ourselves, LG, Huawei, Moto, all kinds of stuff in here. Then here are bins of laptops and the, so 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 bins of laptops. So this might seem like a lot of stuff, but we actually end up donating a lot. So what you won't see
here are a lot of, like, mystery tech items and
some more generic things. Like these are the things
that are actually, like, properly useful on like a regular basis. A lot of the other stuff
we just simply donate. In fact, actually if we come over here. - [Joanna] None of this is released. This whole shelf. - Oh, I can't show any of this stuff. - [Joanna] Yeah.
- Oh sorry, just blur this whole shelf, anyway. Am I being too loud still? - [Ken] Yes. - Okay fine. Show me your shelf then. What do you got over here? - Nothing. - Nothing? Really, just, just- - You're gonna hold it like that? - Just chilling on the shelf? - Because the room's under construction. - No, there's a reason why people have unsubscribed from Denki. - People are subscribing
to Denki every single day. We're positive. - So basically most of the
PCs we build get torn down. So out of all the PCs
that we actually do build, we usually only keep a few of
them here on this bottom shelf that are still, you know, put together. And even these usually only
stick around for a few months, you know, when we know that
we're gonna need it for a video. - [Ken] You can tell he is never handled any of these products in his life. - Here's the thing, my
role here is ceremonial. I'm just here as a
figurehead to lead the group and I pretend I know
what I'm talking about, anyway, lots of PC components here. We've got ourselves tons of RAM, we've got ourselves stacks of CPUs. So again, when we're done with the build, pretty much all systems get torn down and put into inventory here. It looks so empty, everyone just keeps
rotating around the back, look if I go fast enough. - [Ken] It's your video. - If I go fast enough, you can't hide. (upbeat music) Welcome to the 'This Is' studio. So this is the first proper
actual like fully built setup that stays permanent. - So this whole setup is
meant to be swing around. So we can either shoot this way or up against this wall and it only takes about two, three minutes to actually set it up. - [Austin] So all the
cameras are FX3s with the exception of we have one, the only FS7 in the entire company, we still use, which is this guy. - Well not any more 'cause
I just ordered a FX30. For this.
- You ordered an FX30? - Yeah, so we can stop using this. See this is how you get
Austin to buy stuff, is you just do it and then you blindside him with it and then he'll talk himself
into having purchased it. - Let's move on to the other studio. Alright, next up we have studio B which is where the main channel shoots. This probably looks a lot more familiar. So this is the studio that I spend the majority of my time in. Also, if you hear stuff there are electricians on the
roof installing AC units, so. Basically the setup in here
is relatively straightforward. So we do a mix. So for Mystery Tech we typically
use the three camera setup. For other types of videos,
we typically use this setup, which is just the handheld A7. So this is what it looks like
when I'm talking to A camera and this is what looks like
when I'm talking to B cam. And then also this is what it looks like when I'm talking to C cam. There you go, see this
is the classic shot, but I'll tell you a little secret this studio is actually
only set up for me. So if I come over here and you look at like
something like A cam, right? So if you look at that feed right here. So hello, it's A cam. You see how the headroom is made for me? If, I don't know, I was
a little bit taller, like say Marques height, then you'd have to pan up the camera, but we literally cannot
move the camera one inch up. Otherwise you see all of this, like it is precisely configured for me, which means that no one
taller than like six two is allowed on the set and
if they are, it looks bad. So short kings only, it's
a good setup in here. But let me continue on through
some of the less nice parts of the office because from this point on we're entering Jank Town. (lofi music) So this over here is
our little prop closet. This is usually where we just keep sort of stuff that we need like
somewhat regular access to but nothing that's that important. - [Joanna] Christmas. - The Christmas stuff also lives in here. And then if we come over here this, my friends, is, by far, the biggest studio in the office. Welcome to Studio A. We haven't built studio A
yet, so this is just storage. Yeah, this is a lot of stuff that is really just meant
for like building sets and just random furniture and whatnot. For a 2025 studio tour, hopefully this won't be a big empty room. So if you come over to Studio E, this is also not being used right now. This will either be a studio
for like a smaller channel, so something that doesn't
need maybe quite as much space as some of the others or
if we want to use this for, you know, grabbing B roll
or top downs and whatnot. So thanks to our friends
over at monday.com, we're gonna give you a little sneak peek at how we create a 'This Is' video. So there's a lot of moving pieces. So not only do we have the crew, which consists of Kinsey,
who's the producer, we've got Aron who's the editor, and of course Matt and I host. But there's a lot more that goes into it than just Austin and Matt
yelling at each other on a mic for 30 minutes. Although that does happen sometimes, but most videos are a
little bit more complicated. So what we're excited about for monday.com in this sort of trial run for us is how we can actually optimize things because there's a lot of
things I have to do every day and I have a giant list of to do's that I rarely get to the bottom of. And with monday.com I have a single tool to manage nearly all
aspects of my work life. Hello my friends. - Where are we at with- - [Matt] On a day-to-day basis, it is pretty tough because
we are, at any given time, working at about 10 to 15 videos somewhere in a pipeline that
is either in production, it's in post-production, it's in pre-production with research and there's just so much that
we need to keep track of. We need to keep track of dates on when videos are gonna go live. We need to keep track of when we're actually gonna
be shooting these videos. When embargoes are for products, there's a ton of dates to keep track of. So trying to keep like, oh
what are we shooting today that's gonna fit into our schedule is probably the biggest challenge. - [Austin] For us to be
able to, easily at a glance, see exactly where each project
is, where each video is, how much this video needs to do. If we need to, oh this
is missing some B roll, oh this edit's half done, we need to watch it
before we give notes back or whatever the case is. Having that all in one space
is tremendously helpful. Where this is especially important is with Kinsey, who has a lot of work to take all of pre-production
ideas and concepts and put that into a form that we can actually shoot a video on. - Hi, I am Kinsey. I am the producer for This is. - Well, hello. - [Kinsey] Hi.
- Alright, how are we looking? - So I just printed out,
for the This is workflow, there's a main board that's actually like the
pipeline of the whole thing. So we have like, we mostly
look at it in Kanban form where we have like, here's video ideas, pre-production, production,
post-production, live. So that way we can keep
track of, you know, what videos are being
worked on on my side, on when are we shooting, what videos are in Aron's
wheelhouse to edit. So for This is, we have a lot of videos where I make slideshows for
Matt and Austin to look at while we film. And so I made it such that if I take one of these videos cards from ideas into pre-production, it will then automatically make a card in my own personal
board for pre-production and then I can just move that over when I'm ready to work on it. - So you basically can
use those automation tools to simplify you having
to create multiple cards. Set yourself a reminder that I need to do this step or- That's really cool.
- Yeah. We ended up actually making
a lot of physical props and for something like that there's a lot of like little bits and pieces that go into that. And so what I can do is make
little card tasks for myself, make some items in the workflow, and then I can say these
are all attached to them, to this video card on the other board. And that way I can then look at them and I can say like, okay
here's where we're at, here's how many of those parts are done, here's how close we are to being able to move that into production so that when Matt comes to me and says 'Hey we're gonna shoot
some stuff on Thursday. What things are do we have ready?' And I can tell him we have this
ready and we have this ready and then we can kind of work from there. - What you might not realize
when you watch a This Is video is how much, like Matt and I roll up and Kinsey's got everything prepped. Usually you've got like slides for us. Sometimes she like writes jokes for us. So like anytime you look, spoil it, Matt's not gonna be happy. Anytime you see us looking
down below the camera, we've got a monitor there and a lot of times we're reading the jokes that Kinsey wrote for us so. - [Matt] I write my own jokes. - Yeah but Kinsey writes funny ones. We will see you tomorrow when it is time for the actual shoot and we'll see all the wondrous
This Is action in action. Yeah we can go with that. All right, perfect. This is take one of the
weird consoles tier list. When we are just talking about something if we're not like fired
up and like arguing or if there's not like
some interesting content we can do the whole thing
in like five minutes, right? So we need to kind of get in, sort of, the right head space and kind
of get all amped up about it. That being said, Kinsey's
done so much pre-pro on this that it should be pretty easy
for us to argue these things. We have all the props that
we can kind of lean into. So now that we have finished shooting, it is time to send this down to Aron to start editing and see
how that workflow goes. - Yeah, hi, I'm Aron. I'm the editor for This Is. - Hello my friend.
- Hello. - Are you ready to chop
a disaster of a video? - Oh, I always am. Most of them are. - From here, do you wanna
run everybody through, kind of like, a quick hit on the workflow? - Yeah, I pull it into the
timeline, get our LUTs on it, get our sound profile on it
so that the audio's good, and then I just start
watching through and yeah, cutting everything. - [Austin] Just delete all
the stuff that Matt said. Yeah 'cause it was mostly wrong. There we go, perfect, that looks great. I think that's way this should be. - And then I can just, you
know, a lot of sound effects, a lot of noises, a lot of
fart jokes, a lot of, wow. I'll have to send Rio the noise so she can put that in
over me saying that. Whenever you guys say something stupid I just put a some sort of noise in there. I would say probably 90% of it is that. Usually once I'm done getting rid of all the times
you guys weren't funny. Anyway. - Alright, cool. Well have fun editing the video. - Yeah, great. - If you're ready to
give monday.com a try, what are you waiting for? Right now you can get a 30 day free trial by visiting the link in the description. And above all, I really wanna thank you
for watching this video. We would not have this
very cool office space and have been able to grow
the team as much as we have without you watching, liking, subscribing, and ringling that dingling
button, it does truly mean a lot. Until next time, my friends, I hope that nothing else
breaks, but I'm sure it will.