- [Anthony] I went on vacation, like an actual out of country vacation. I packed my iPad, strapped on my watch, pocketed my iPhone and took no other devices. While I'd use the iOS 15 beta, since our video talking about it, on this trip I was about
to be fully immersed in the iOS 15 ecosystem for about a week and a half. Which included being
fully immersed in rage for 15 minutes on my flights. Thanks to one of Apple's innovations. But now, now I'm on the other
side of the official release. And I think I'm ready to talk about it. But first I'll talk about
our sponsor Antlion Audio. Thanks to Antlion Audio
for sponsoring this video. The ModMike wireless microphone delivers best in class audio quality, 12 plus hours of battery life, and can magnetically mount
to almost any headphone. Get 15% off the ModMike wireless and other ModMike products
at the link below. (electronic music) IOS 15, which we're going to use to refer to both the iPhone and iPad versions for now, has a lot of good things going for it. Safari in particular, it became
a lot more useful for me, thanks to the new UI. Although
from everything I've seen, that's clearly not a universal opinion. While I appreciate the
easier access to tabs and the better tab overview, Mac address host, Jonathan Horst disagrees and hates the new UI. See, he's something of a tab fiend, while I'm more conservative with how many tabs I open
on my mobile devices. So it really seems to depend on how efficient you are. To Apple's credit. They seem to have taken
this dichotomy seriously and had been tinkering nonstop
over the course of the beta, which originally didn't
even have a refresh button. The idea being that you'd simply use the new pull to refresh function, but that didn't work on every website. User outcry about it was,
rightly, swift and loud, so Apple just put the
fricking button back in. They also let you toggle
the position of the tab bar from the bottom to the top, although they apparently
didn't care whether you'd like to change the new flat UI. The biggest improvement to Safari by far is extension support. Safari previously had limited
support for things like content blockers and
advanced sharing options, but now it supports full
fledged desktop style, browser extensions. Nawara and Dark Reader can
do dark mode for any webpage. HyperWeb can run custom
user styles and scripts. And 1Password can actually
show pop-ins to fill forms. Plus, many more. Steve Jobs said Safari on iPhone was just like the desktop. And now, for the first
time, that's kind of true. Of course, if you're deep
into Apple's ecosystem, you already have your
own password manager, which has gotten a big upgrade
in the form of a built-in two-factor authenticator. It's a nice touch that helps
simplify the experience, similar to how Apple Pay's changes have simplified the checkout process. I brought it up during the beta video, but the new sheet for
choosing a payment card saves so much time when you're trying to check out quickly online. And you can do that without revealing your email address now, thanks to hide my email, which works surprisingly well. I've only used it a couple of times, but what it does is set up a randomly generated burner email. You could use this, for example, to set up filters to automatically soar through your junk mail and keep your primary email inbox spam free. Or as spam free as it can be these days, huh? (laughing track) uhhh.... Speaking of spam free, turns out Focus in the new
notification summary are serious time savers, as long
as you dial it in just right. See the Focuses let you choose which apps, or people, get to bug you at any given time. But that can lead to missing
important phone calls, when you get to work and your
phone automatically enables the work focus, and you get a
call from the doctor's office, but they use a private
number. And your phone is like "Nah uh Mr. Doctor. (voice effect) Anthony has got something
much more important to do." like admiring the Ltt
water bottles new colors, and updated motherboard
design at lttstore.com. So what I'd really like to
see is both a white list and a black list in Focus. So I could mute teams or my
work email when I'm at home, but still get those important calls. Thankfully notification summary
shows silence notifications when I check it. So maybe this is by design. One feature I wouldn't make any changes to is spatialization for stereo music, which makes it sound
like audio is coming from a speaker in front of you instead of directly from your headphones. I mean, yeah, it seems pointless, but it can actually help
with listening fatigue, which can affect some
people who listen to music or other audio for long periods of time. Like yours truly. Apparently. I thought this was the
thing that everybody had. Anyway. There've been plugins
that do the same thing on desktop media player since the 90s and Apple's tweak on it here is tracking your iDevices position
as the virtual speaker, which thankfully you can turn it off, If you think that's goofy. iOS 15 has a few other features
that might make you think. "Huh? Okay." The quick notes feature on
iPad seems like a great idea that I usually remember is there only because I activate it by accident. And I never remember the
new car keys feature for Apple Wallet, as cool as that may be, because it's useless for anyone who doesn't own a 2020 or newer model BMW. Same deal with state ID cards and 3D maps, which aren't widely available just yet. But, if you live where they are oh man, that will be so cool for you. The Shared with You section,
in Apple's first party apps, would be a cool way to
keep on top of things that are, well, shared with you. Provided that you, unlike me, have many friends that are A. iPhone users and B. sharing things with you. Similarly, FaceTime enhancements like
portrait mode and grid view would be great if I
did more telecommuting. And if spatial audio worked on AirPods, instead of only your device's speakers, seriously, every other spacial audio enabled thing only works on AirPods. So I don't know what Craig
Federighi was smoking when he approved this feature, but I do not want some. Then there's some stuff
that sounded cool on paper. Like on-device Siri processing? Awesome. Except only language
processing gets done locally. So you can't actually do much
without an internet connection other than set some timers and alarms, launch apps and control media playback. Unfortunately, you can't even have Siri take a note while offline, even if your default save
location is on this iPhone. And there's no clear reason why Apple wouldn't let you do that. Other than to assert dominance. iCloud private relay sounded
like a decent VPN alternative for non-techies, until I tried to use it at the airport. Leading to 15 or 20
minutes spent wrangling to try and get some kind of
connection on my iDevices, whether that be actual internet access or just seeing the
freaking in-flight menu. Well, as it turns out, when private relay is on, you can connect to the in-flight wifi, but you can't access anything because private relay has to route through Apple's servers first. But private relay can't
reach Apple's servers without internet access. Oh, okay, so you just have to
turn private relay off. Uh uh uhu, You can't turn private relay off unless you have internet access already, because if you don't have it, the private relay options,
in iCloud Settings simply disappears. This is literally a Catch 22. Great, great book. Just
pick it up sometime. You can disable private
relay on a per network basis by going to the network properties, but it doesn't always seem
to remember this setting. I eventually managed to get online by mashing the wifi button until private relay somehow stayed off. To be fair to Apple, this
feature is still in beta, but, I didn't know that it meant putting a strain on my sanity. I was willing to forgive Apple though, until I learned that while your watch can now let you know if
you've left your phone behind, your phone can't let you know if you've left your watch behind, for some reason. And that was the last straw. At this point, it became clear to me that
this whole thing feels half-baked. Even after factory
resetting all my iDevices, there are still a number of bugs and jang things that just aren't Apple. For all the good that I
had to say about Safari, for example, I'm getting frequent crashes on iPad OS, and while I'd love to pin an extension, like One Password, to the URL bar, I can't. In fact, if I have more
than two active extensions, it hides them all behind
this extension icon with a number showing
you how many you have. This wouldn't be so bad, if not for the fact that touching this, doesn't give you the extensions menu. It just gives you the standard page menu, which you also get by
pressing the menu button right next to it. Like why? Are you ready for another one? The home screen on iPad gets the same widget
support as on iPhones, but there's a cost, adding a widget, no matter where or what size, takes away a row from the grid. Now this is presumably because on iPhone, a widget starts at four
icons worth of space and the iPad has different spacing, but Apple, was there
no way, really, no way to adjust the size of widgets on an iPad? You can perfectly emulate x86 apps on arm, but you got stumped by widgets? I've also had some difficulty realizing when I'm using multiple
instances of an app on the app shelf. There are times when third-party
apps open a new window, without my realizing it. And, it's not immediately
obvious while using the app, nor is it on the dock, nor even
in the command tab switcher, that this is the case. At one point, I had about half a dozen Safari windows open without realizing it, which is just weird. As a regular Mac iOS user, I'd love to use the same
command plus tilde shortcut for switching between
apps open windows here. But no, you simply have to interact
with the shell for or use the multitasking menu, both of which do, thankfully,
have keyboard shortcuts. This seems, kind of boneheaded
and really makes you wish they'd give us proper window
management on the iPad already. I mean, heck, there's no reason why Mac
OS can't run right now on M1 iPads. Right? Right? Apple, please? While we're talking about iPad OS, there are still a number
of bugs related to Apple's wonderful $400 add-on, the magic keyboard. Let's open a new tab and
start typing right away. Wait, what? There are search results, but what I typed isn't in the search bar. If I keep typing now, it just completely
forgets whatever was there and brings up new search results, based on the most recent letters I typed, this doesn't happen if I wait until the new tab animation is finished, but I am a busy man. This is the kind of silly
oversight that I expect in beta software. Not in a final release, and especially not for hardware that I spent far too much money on. There's more of that jank
to be found on iPhone. If a webpage supports reader mode, it'll show a button on the address bar, then fade out after a
couple of seconds, if that, I'm just going to enable a
reader mode here and oop, well, (beep) me, I guess. And hey, remember how Safari ships with
a bottom bar by default now? Well watch what happens when you rotate. Excuse me, what? This is on the final release of iOS 15. Does this seem like Apple's
usual level of polished to you? And it's not even bringing
up all the major features that were promised, but not finished in time for the release, like Share Play watch together. There seems to be a running
theme with recent iOS releases and indeed Microsoft's got
their own share of things that weren't done in time
for Windows 11 either. It really feels like the release it now and
patch it later mentality is getting pushed to
new extremes every year. as many issues as there are though, there are a ton of tiny little
quality of life improvements under the hood. And we shouldn't forget about those. Like there's an a magnification loop when selecting texts now, that's so natural that I
forgot it wasn't a thing in iOS 14. There's the ability to
transcribe text from photos you've already taken, which became super helpful
for managing travel documents with the Arrive Can App,
on the way back to Canada. The extra contexts to spotlight searches means you can search for even
vague subjects and photos and it'll intelligently
pull relevant results. The magnifier app, once hidden
behind accessibility options, works great, and has
come in handy already. I mean, how often have
you tried zooming in on your phone's camera to
read something really small or at a weird angle. You can quickly mute
notifications from certain apps, either temporarily or permanently from the notifications shade, and time-sensitive
notifications like delivery and ride sharing apps come through, regardless of what focus you're on. Safari automatically uses
HTTPS whenever it can. And background sounds can
be used to maintain focus or promote rest. Oh, and watch OS, which I
haven't even touched on at all, because it hasn't changed that much, does have a few quality of life features of its own that I've used, like being able to run
multiple timers and label them. They even show up on
the always on display. It'll be usually a couple of seconds off. It's still useful for determining roughly how far away a timer is though. It also supports the new focus settings and mirrors what you've set on your phone. Can't say I'm a huge fan of
the photo's watch face though. I like to be able to tell
what time it is on my watch, not look at a pocket size photo
whenever I raised my wrist, but maybe I'm in the minority there. I mean, I don't see a reason to upgrade from the iPhone 11
series to the 13 series, but I'm sure plenty of
people will do it anyway. Get subscribed, by the way, because there's plenty
more to say about that too. And you won't want to miss it. At the end of the day, the iOS 15 series of
mobile operating systems has made my mobile experience much more like the desktop one, particularly on the iPad, which is something I never
thought I'd be able to say. Is it perfect? Hell no. But on the whole, is it good? Yeah, I think it is. And so as our sponsor, MANSCAPED, MANSCAPED provides an all-in-one
grooming kit that has you covered from head to toe. Their performance package 4.0 features their awesome Lawnmower 4.0
waterproof body trimmer, their Weed Wacker ear and nose trimmer, plus a whole lot of other goodies as well. For a limited time, you get all this, plus two free gifts, the Shed travel bag and the MANSCAPED
anti-chafing boxer briefs. visit manscape.com/tech or click the link below for
20% off and free shipping. Thanks for watching guys. Go check out our video on the iOS 15 beta, where I go over the features
more generally, you know, I had more that I was going to write here, but that's kind of the end of the thought, it's more general. This is more of a, I used it for a while
and this is how I feel.