Most of the world’s biggest cities and about 
half of the global population live within 100   kilometers (60 miles) from the ocean. That’s 
pretty important, especially given the huge   amount of land that isn’t near a coastline. We 
humans just tend toward the ocean - it’s got food,   it’s got ships, it’s got beaches and waves. It’s 
got unimaginable beauty. But not everything about   the coast is great, especially when all that 
ocean water starts finding its way up the   shore and into developed areas. We’ve talked about 
riverine flooding caused by intense precipitation   in a previous video. But, there’s another type of 
flooding that has almost nothing to do with rain   and almost everything to do with air. Hey, 
I’m Grady and this is Practical Engineering.   On today’s episode, we’re talking about 
storm surge and coastal flood protection. This video is sponsored by Curiosity Stream and   Nebula. Get 26% off at the link in 
the description. More on that later! Whether you call them hurricanes or typhoons, 
tropical cyclones are some of the most   devastating phenomena that Mother Nature has 
to throw at us. They get their own names and   their own elite aircrew reconnaissance 
squadrons and their own cult following   of hardcore weather nerds (including me). These 
gigantic rotating storms coalesce over the ocean,   fed by warm tropical waters. And, 
when they happen to make landfall,   the results can be catastrophic. Hurricanes and 
typhoons are a study in extremes, producing some   of the fastest sustained winds and the highest 
precipitation depths across the globe. But,   the most damaging part of a tropical cyclone 
is an effect called storm surge which produces   flooding and inundation of coastal areas that 
can be practically unimaginable. In fact,   the vast majority of lost lives and dollars 
of damage caused by hurricanes every year   can be attributed not to the wind, lightning, or 
rainfall but to the storm surge. So, what is it? Storm surge is an increase in sea level that 
results mostly from all that wind. But it’s much   easier to show you than to tell you, especially 
because I have a big acrylic flume in my garage.   Still water is level - that means its surface is 
perpendicular to the local gravity vector - which   at small scales is a just straight line. But, when 
you start introducing other forces, things change.   For example, the gravity from the sun and 
the moon cause seas to bulge and contract,   leading to high and low tides. The other force 
that can affect the level of the sea is wind.   When air passes along the surface of a waterbody, 
it creates a shear force. The viscosity - or   stickiness - of the wind transfers some of its 
momentum, carrying the water along with it. When   that water encounters an obstacle, like the end of 
the flume here or a shoreline in the real world,   it has nowhere to go but up. The effect is that 
the wind blows the water against the shore and   it bulges up above the normal sea level. But, 
the ocean is always windy. This effect is so   pronounced for tropical cyclones because of the 
intensity and consistency of the winds. If you’ve   ever experienced one of these storms, you know 
how bizarre it is. Hurricanes aren’t just gusty,   the wind is faster than highway speeds and it’s 
constant. That’s what allows so much of the sea   to move toward the coast and up the shoreline.
Characterizing storm surge might seem pretty   simple at first glance. Just measure how high the 
sea goes for various wind speeds. Connect the dots   and you’ll know, for any hurricane, the height 
of the surge as long as you know the speed of   the wind. But, like all real-world challenges (and 
especially those involving weather), things aren’t   quite so simple. First off, just knowing the wind 
speed of a hurricane is pretty challenging on its   own. It varies from the center of the storm 
to the outside and from the top to the bottom.   Magnitude of storm surge also depends 
on how fast the storm itself is moving   and where it makes landfall. Hurricane winds move 
in a circular motion rather than a straight line,   so every part of the shore sees a different wind 
direction. In fact, one side of the storm can   actually pull water away from the shore, creating 
a reverse storm surge. Tropical cyclone winds   change over time as the storm itself 
changes intensity, direction, and size.   Storm surge height is also sensitive to 
the air pressure and the ocean bathymetry,   the depth and shape of the terrain below water. 
A steep coastal shelf keeps the water deeper   for longer which leads to lower storm surge. A 
gradual, shallow shelf creates a higher surge.   All this complexity combined together means it is 
not that easy to predict the height of storm surge   we’ll see along the coast during a hurricane or 
typhoon. In the U.S., the National Weather Service   uses a numerical model to try and capture all 
these details called Sea, Lake, and Overland Surge   from Hurricanes, or just SLOSH. This model gets 
run to develop an approximate map of potential   storm surge that can be used by emergency managers 
for purposes like coordinating evacuations. It’s difficult to overstate how vulnerable our 
cities are to storm surge. We build so much stuff   along coastlines: ports, houses, roads, railways, 
airports, and more. Around half of the world’s   economic activity happens in coastal areas. Storm 
surge can raise the ocean’s level by upwards of 8   meters or 26 feet in the worst cases, like when 
the storm landfalls during the normal high tide.   Once that water’s there, waves crash against 
buildings and other things that weren’t meant   to withstand the enormous force of the sea. 
The damage can be incredible. Storm surge   also makes freshwater flooding worse, 
something that can be particularly bad   during a hurricane because there’s so much rain. 
Urban drainage systems mostly work by gravity,   so storm sewers are sloped downward to carry 
floodwaters away. If storm surge has pushed   seawater inland, you have a smaller difference 
in elevation between where the water is and where   you need it to be, slowing down the drainage of 
rainwater and making the flooding even worse. Coastal flooding is a difficult challenge to 
address, but we do have ways of managing it.   The first is detection and monitoring. Real-time 
sensors track sea levels and relay the data online   so we can see the timing, extent, and magnitude of 
storm surge as it happens. This can help us make   critical public safety decisions like where to 
evacuate. These instruments also help us evaluate   coastal flooding after it occurs so we can be 
better able to predict what will happen the next   time. Another way we deal with storm surge is just 
to build stuff further up. The higher you go in   elevation, the lower your vulnerability to storm 
surge. That can be tough to do in shallow coastal   plains where the ground isn’t much higher than sea 
level. We use elevated foundations like pilings to   try and keep water from damaging structures. We 
can also put more resilient parts of buildings,   like parking structures, on the lower floors 
to minimize flood damage. Another major way   we deal with coastal flooding is with barrier 
infrastructure: walls or dams that hold back the   sea when it rises too high. These can be as simple 
as earthen coastal levees or as sophisticated as   the Delta Works in the Netherlands, a complex 
series of dams, locks, and levees which protect   the vulnerable Dutch coastline from storm surge. 
Many of these structures, like the Maeslantkering   are normally opened to reduce impacts on 
the environment and allow for the passage of   ships. They only close when a storm threatens 
to raise the sea level and flood the coast. Take a look at this generalized hazard map 
and you can truly get a sense of how exposed   coastlines can be to this type of flooding. And, 
it’s not getting any better. The Intergovernmental   Panel on Climate Change synthesized a huge body of 
research on tropical storms and specifically how   their frequency and intensity might change in the 
future. Their conclusion was that the frequency   of tropical cyclones may stay the same or even go 
down over time, but their intensity - that is the   wind speeds and rainfall amount - is likely to 
increase due to greenhouse warming. Combine that   with expected rise in sea level and it has some 
pretty important implications to coastal areas.   Those risks of flood damage are baked into the 
cost of development in hurricane-prone regions.   Most importantly, it means we need to 
continue to innovate solutions to not   only reduce the likelihood of storm 
surge with protective infrastructure   but also to reduce the consequences of it 
by making cities more resilient to flooding   so that when the next storm comes, they can 
recover more easily and quickly than ever. Thanks for sticking to the end of the video. 
If you’re here, that probably means you spend   your valuable free time learning new things 
about the world. You probably also don’t   enjoy watching ads like this, which is great, 
because Nebula doesn’t have any. Nebula is a   streaming service built by and for independent 
creators like MinutePhysics, Real Engineering,   Wendover Productions, and a bunch of others. It’s 
a way for us to try new ideas that might not work   on advertiser-supported platforms like YouTube. 
And, we’re super excited to be partnering with   CuriosityStream, a service with thousands 
of documentaries and non-fiction titles on   pretty much every subject you can imagine. 
CuriosityStream loves independent creators   and wants to help us grow our platform, so they’re 
offering free access to Nebula when you sign up at   CuriosityStream.com/practicalengineering. I know 
there are a lot of streaming services right now,   and it can be tough to add another monthly 
subscription. That’s why this bundle is such an   awesome deal. For a short time, CuriosityStream 
is taking 26% off an annual plan - that’s only   $15 for a year of access to thousands of 
awesome documentaries on CuriosityStream   AND everything on Nebula as well. Watch awesome 
long-form construction content like Engineering   the Future on CuriosityStream or watch Tom Scott 
pit other YouTubers against each other in his   Nebula-exclusive gameshow, Money. It’s a great 
way to support my channel and a whole host of   your other favorite educational creators. Plus 
it’s just a good deal. Do us both a favor and   click that link in the description. Thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think!