We talk about a lot of big structures on this 
channel. But, it takes a lot of big tools to build   the roads, dams, sewage lift stations, and every 
other part of the constructed environment. To me,   there’s almost nothing more fun than watching 
something get built, and that’s made all the   better when you know what all those machines 
do. So, in this episode, we’re going to try   something a little bit different. I’m Grady, and 
this is Practical Engineering. Let’s get started! [musical transition] A big part of construction is just shifting around 
soil and rock. If you’ve ever had to dig a hole,   you know how limited human effort is in 
moving earth. Almost no major job site is   complete without at least one excavator because 
they’re just so versatile. Depending on size,   the heavy steel bucket of an excavator 
can match an entire day’s digging of one   guy or girl with a single scoop. 
But excavators get used for more   than just digging. They are a lifter, 
pusher, crane, and hammer all in one. A skid steer is second only to an excavator 
when it comes to versatility. These little   machines are often equipped with a bucket, but 
you can attach almost any type of tool as well.   While there are often purpose built 
machines that can do the same job,   none of them can convert from loader to mower 
to forklift to drill rig quite so quickly,   and in tight confined spaces, a 
skid steer is the perfect tool. A loader is one in many machines 
meant to carry soil and rock across   a distance. They’re often articulated in 
the center for tighter turns and use a   large bucket on the front for lifting and dumping.   They’re meant to carry materials over short 
distances, like the length of a construction site. Longer hauls use a dump truck. These trucks 
feature a large open-topped tub meant to withstand   repeated loading with various heavy materials. A 
typical dump truck features a hydraulic cylinder   that can lift the bed, tilting it at a steep 
angle and allowing material to dump out of the   back.. Since dump trucks carry heavy loads, lots 
of them have auxiliary axles that can be lowered   to distribute the weight over more tires and keep 
the truck in compliance with roadway and bridge   weight limits. Articulated haulers are dump 
trucks used in off-road and difficult terrain. If you want to move a lot of soil 
around a large construction site,   another option is a scraper. Rather than 
loading from the ground into a dump truck,   these machines do it all in one. A huge 
blade scrapes directly from the ground into   a hopper. It’s carried directly to where it’s 
needed and unloaded with a hydraulic ejector,   and these are often used on large 
embankments like for highways and dams. Another Swiss army knife of the construction yard   is the backhoe that is kind of a 
combination excavator and loader.   Great for small sites where it doesn’t 
make sense to have two pieces of equipment. And don’t forget the bulldozer that specializes in 
moving material at ground level. They can’t move   material over large distances, but they can spread 
out literal tons with their tank-like tracks. The last stop on the digging train is the 
trencher. There are a huge variety of styles   and sizes, but ultimately they all specialize 
in digging long holes for pipes and utilities.   Many use a tooth chain like a 
giant chainsaw for the Earth! By the way, there are about a hundred 
different colloquial names for almost   every piece of large equipment. 
Different sites, suppliers, regions,   and countries use different words for the same 
machine; it’s part of the fun. One easy tip to   sound like a pro is just to add the drive 
style to the front of the name. It’s not   a loader, it’s a wheel loader, or a tracked 
excavator and so on. Now let’s hit the road. Roadwork is something we’ve all seen, and 
while it can be a bit frustrating if you’re   stuck in a traffic jam from it, roads might be 
the largest engineered structures on earth. Our   modern lives depend on them, and it takes 
some pretty cool tools to get them built. A grader is technically an earthwork tool,   but it’s used mostly on roadways. The extra 
long wheelbase makes it well suited for   precisely leveling surfaces and evening 
out bumps, leaving a nice even grade. Once all that soil is in the right place, 
it needs to be solidified so it doesn’t   settle over time. A roller compactor 
is the main tool for this job. There   are a few varieties of these depending on the 
material being compacted. Smooth drums are used   for most soils and asphalt. Sheep’s foot and 
padded drums have protrusions that work best   on clay and silt. Pneumatic tire rollers are 
best to knead and seal the surface. And a lot   of roller compactors have a vibration 
feature to shake the soil into place. An asphalt paver is the machine where 
the road meets the road. Hot asphalt   is loaded into the machine, which 
spreads it into an even layer onto   the subgrade using a screed. Many 
paving machines have a wand that   follows a stringline as a reference to the 
exact elevation required for the roadway. If we’re talking about making a road out 
of concrete, then the tool for the job is   a slip former. It’s usually more efficient and 
produces better quality of work when paving,   curbs, and highway barriers are installed 
continuously rather than building forms and   casting them in batches. Careful control 
of the mix makes it possible for a slip   form machine to create long concrete 
structures without any formwork at all. If we just added another layer of pavement to 
the road every time it started to wear out,   pretty soon, we’d have walls! Roads are 
designed to be extraordinarily tough,   so removing the top layer isn’t easy. That’s 
a job for an asphalt mill or planer. These   specialized tools grind and remove the 
surface with a large rotating drum. The   material is routed up a conveyor system and 
can be loaded into a following dump truck. It’s actually fairly common to see multiple 
vehicles following one another in roadwork   like this. An interesting example is 
the so-called paving train. On one end,   we have a dump truck full of asphalt fresh from 
the plant. This is loaded into the asphalt paver,   which continuously lays a layer of asphalt that 
is then compacted by one or more rollers. Workers   on the ground also continuously monitor the 
process to ensure a nice even road surface. Not everything at a construction site 
is a machine with wheels or tracks.   A lot of equipment gets hauled in on a trailer, 
or is a trailer itself. A light tower lets you   work outside of daylight hours, illuminating the 
site so you can work at night or underground.   An air compressor enables the use of lots 
of tools on a job site, like jackhammers,   sandblasters, and painting rigs. If you need 
electric power instead of compressed air,   diesel generators offer access to power 
when grid service isn’t available. So far, the actual material we’ve seen is in bulk 
like earth or asphalt. Often in construction,   the materials we need to lift or move 
are objects like girders or concrete   pipes. For that you need a crane or 
similar material-handling equipment. This is a pipe layer. The name is a bit confusing 
since the workers that operate them are also   often called pipe layers. And it's no surprise 
what kind of jobs they do. They specialize in   handling large sections of pipe and precisely 
lowering them and placing them into trenches. A telescopic handler, or a telehandler 
or teleporter is like an all-terrain   forklift. The boom can have attachments 
like a bucket, pallet forks, or a winch,   and it telescopes to make it easy to deliver 
materials and equipment exactly where you need it. If you happen to be the load that needs 
elevating, then you’ll need a boom lift   or its cousin, the scissor lift. The operator 
of these controls the platform while standing   on it, allowing for very positioning 
of people that’s much more precise,   and usually safer, than a ladder. Another 
relative of the boom lift is a bucket truck   which has a boom lift in the back, used a 
lot of electric and utility work on poles. Stepping up in size, we have 
road-rated all-terrain cranes.   If you’ve passed a giant crane driving 
down the highway, it was one of these,   since most other types of cranes have to be 
hauled to a site in pieces and assembled. As the name implies, all-terrain 
cranes don’t require perfectly level,   paved surfaces to get to work. However, 
if your job site is particularly rough,   you need a rough-terrain crane. The giant 
rubber tires on these mean you’ll need to   have them transported, but once rolling, they can 
go where highway-rated vehicles might struggle. If the crane you’re looking at is mounted 
on tracks, you’ve got a crawler crane. These   heavy-duty cranes, while slower and bulkier than 
all-terrain cranes and also requiring modular   transport to job sites, can carry immense loads 
and extend to even greater heights than any of the   cranes we’ve seen so far. Most crawler cranes can 
be configured according to the job with different   lengths of booms, amounts of counterweight, 
and extensions called jibs. A particularly fun   configuration is for demolition where a crawler 
crane might be fitted with a wrecking ball. Most can move from place to place, but not 
all. Tower cranes use large counterbalanced   horizontal booms with an integrated operator cab 
on top of a large, well… tower. Like most of the   cranes we’ve seen so far, these come in a wide 
range of sizes but can be absolutely enormous,   almost a construction project themselves 
requiring other cranes for assembly. One way to build bridges uses a specialized 
crane called a launching gantry. You may   have heard the term gantry before for a 
bridgelike overhead crane. These are in   all kinds of industries. A launching 
gantry uses the existing structure   of the bridge as a base and often lifts 
whole pre-built sections of the bridge. Turning from the sky and looking underground,   let’s talk about a few 
foundation-specific machines. The biggest and heaviest structures are supported 
on bedrock or some deeper geological layer. Even   if the usable soil is just clay for hundreds 
of feet, sinking deep subterranean columns   or piles below a heavy structure can keep it 
from settling too much over time. One way to   install a pile is to dig a very deep hole, place 
a reinforcing steel cage in the hole, then fill   the whole thing with concrete. This is the exact 
job that a pile drill rig is designed to do. These   large-scale drills are pretty closely related to 
the machines used for oil and gas exploration. Another way to install piles is 
to drive them into the earth,   the job of a pile driver. Just like the name 
implies, they repeatedly strike wooden, steel,   or concrete piles to sink 
them to the required depth. Speaking of concrete, there’s a whole 
subset of construction machines that are   specifically designed to handle, transport, 
and place this important material. You’ve   probably seen a mixer truck before, and I’ll 
forgive you for calling them cement trucks,   even though cement is just one of 
the ingredients of a concrete mix.   The truck can be loaded with dry materials 
and water, and the mixing occurs en route to   the job site, since concrete generally has 
a limited time before it begins to cure. Concrete is often placed directly from the truck 
using a chute, but that’s not always the easiest   way. Concrete pumps are used to pump concrete to 
job site locations that are hard to access with   a truck, often with a huge overhead boom. Since 
concrete is more than twice as dense as water,   these pumps operate at extremely high pressures, 
sometimes over 100 times atmospheric pressure! Finishing concrete is mostly a hand-tool job, but 
there are some machines for big jobs, like ride-on   trowels, that speed up the job of floating 
a slab smooth once it has started to set up. Big jobs with lots of concrete might just 
mix it onsite with a mobile batching plant.   This is helpful if you need to produce vast 
volumes of concrete over a long period in a   way that would be too inconvenient or maybe 
even impossible for mixer trucks to handle. Sometimes concrete needs to be placed on a sloped 
or vertical surface to stabilize a rock face,   shore up a tunnel, or even just install a pool! 
The catch-all term for the various varieties of   sprayed concrete is shotcrete (although some 
pool installers might disagree). Shotcrete   machines use compressed air to apply concrete to 
all kinds of surfaces in the construction world. When projects require the installation of new 
or additional utility lines in areas that are   already built up, the traditional method of 
digging trenches isn’t feasible. This kind of   job calls for a directional drilling machine. 
While these are technically boring tools,   they are anything but uninteresting. 
I actually have a dedicated video just   to talk about how they work, and 
specifically how they steer that   bit below the ground. Go check that out 
after this if you want to learn more. Hopefully there have been a few machines in the 
list so far that are new to you, but if not,   I have a few more specialized machines you 
might be lucky enough to spot on a site: Fans of the channel might recognize a soil nail 
rig, a specialized machine that drills out more   or less horizontal shafts in an earthen slope and 
then adds soil nails to greatly enhance stability. Jobs that require grout often use mobile batch 
plants, called grout plants. You can even inject   ground into the ground at high pressures using a 
hydraulic pump to fill voids and stabilize soils. A wick drain machine installs prefabricated 
vertical drains into the soil at regular   intervals to speed up drainage of water 
in clay soils which helps speed up the   inevitable settling of the soil so 
construction can get started faster. One option for repairing existing pipelines in 
place without trenching is cured-in-place pipe   lining. Inverting a liner impregnated with 
epoxy-resin into an existing pipeline using   air pressure essentially puts a brand 
new pipe inside an old or damaged line.  One of the least boring machines that 
you’d be really lucky to see above ground   is a tunnel boring machine. These behemoths use a 
complicated face of various cutting tools followed   by a material removal and shoring installation 
apparatus to efficiently bore full scale tunnels! Obviously I can’t be exhaustive here. The 
construction industry is just full of machines.   There is such a variety in the type and scale of 
projects that manufacturers are always coming up   with new and improved equipment that can get a 
particular job done better. And lots of industries   outside of construction use heavy machinery, 
including mines, oil and gas, and railroads.   Let me know what you think I missed or if you 
want a similar list within a different industry.   But I think this is a good starting point 
for any burgeoning construction spotter,   and I hope it’s exhaustive enough that if 
you see something that didn’t make the list,   you can puzzle out its purpose on your 
own. That part of the satisfaction of   construction spotting anyway, so get out there 
and see what kinds of machines you can find. I am obviously fascinated by the machines 
that both build and make up our constructed   environment, from the oldest to the most 
modern. I think it’s interesting that a   lot of the differences we see in vehicles 
comes down to how efficient they are at   doing a very specific task. For example, my 
friend Brian from the Real Engineering channel   just released a video all about maglev trains, and 
he explains why there is only one commercial high   speed maglev line in the world, even though 
the technology seems ready to revolutionize   train travel. I had no idea how travel time 
factors into the economics of these projects. Maybe you’ve noticed what I have over the past 
few years: my old favorite TV networks are just   running reality shows, and the best video content 
that I actually enjoy watching is being made my   independent creators. There’s just something 
different about a small team who is passionate   about their topic instead of being told what to 
do by some studio executive looking at ratings   numbers. You can catch the Real Engineering video 
on maglev trains on YouTube when it comes out   eventually, but if you want to watch it right now 
(with no ads), you’ll have to head over to Nebula. You’ve heard me talk about Nebula before. It’s the 
answer to the question of what could happen if the   best channels on YouTube didn’t have to cater to 
an algorithm. Viewers support creators directly   through a subscription instead of supporting 
their advertisers. And it just keeps getting   better and better: totally ad-free videos from 
excellent educational channels, original series   and specials that can’t be found anywhere else, 
and even classes from your favorite creators like   Sam from Wendover Productions and Jet Lag. And 
right now, you can get 40% off an annual plan   by using the link below. That’s less than $3 a 
month, much less than other streaming platforms.   My videos go live on Nebula the day before they 
come out on YouTube. If watching videos like this   one is what you do for fun, you should upgrade 
your experience, especially when it’s practically   free like it is right now at the link below. Thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think!