Java is an island in what is now the country
of Indonesia. Colonized by the Dutch. In the early 1800s, the Dutch government gave
itself a trade monopoly on several profitable cash crops. Sugar by far became the biggest
of those cash crops. 20 years later, the Dutch government had built
a sugar empire in Java feeding massive profits back to Holland. Only Cuba produced more sugar
than Java. Just one small problem. This empire of sugar,
coffee and others was built on top of a system of forced labor and cruelty. Today, we look
at the Dutch Cultivation System in Java. ## Beginnings Java is the 13th largest island in the world. Today, a stunning 151 million people live
there, making it the most populous island in the world. One of the biggest cities Jakarta
is on Java. The climate there - like with much of Southeast
Asia - is hot and humid. The monsoon season brings strong rains from November to March.
Otherwise, the land is very sunny. The island was formed by volcanic eruptions,
and thus contains various volcanoes running from east to west. When it rains, the erosion
brings ash down to the plains, making the soil incredibly fertile. This makes the island of Java a very fine
place to grow crops. Crops like coffee and sugar. ## The Dutch in Java The Dutch has had a presence in Java since
the 1500s. The Dutch East India Company (Verenigde Oostindische
Compagnie) or VOC first established their capital, Batavia, in 1619. That city is now
Jakarta. This massive, state-supported business - a
state within a state - had a trade monopoly on goods in the area. They landed in Java
and started acquiring political power to secure its supply of spices. Through the tried-and-true colonialist playbook
of backing pretenders to power, the Company destroyed the power of the Mataram Sultanate,
the last independent Javanese native state. ## The Fall of Taiwan The Dutch center for sugar in Asia had originally
been the island of Taiwan. In 1624, VOC established a trading center
near what is now the city of Tainan. A decade later, they defeated the powerful headhunting
aboriginal clans, paving the way for Han farming and hunting settlements. For a while, Taiwan was the breadbasket of
the Indies. Taiwanese sugar was exported to Japan, Persia, and sometimes even back to
Amsterdam. But then in 1661-1662, the ex-Ming warlord
Koxinga laid siege to the Dutch fort of Zeelandia and captured them. With this, the VOC lost Taiwan and its sugar
plantations, leaving them without a significant source of sugar. For several decades, they tried growing sugar
on the island of Mauritius off the coast of Africa. But settlers suffered a battery of
challenges including pests, disease and cyclones. Not to mention unrest from the slave labor
force. Discouraged, the Dutch pulled out from Mauritius
in 1710, but not before killing off the dodo. Sad. ## Chinese Sugar Tech The Chinese first brought sugar production
to Java in the early 1600s. China was a pioneer in sugar production and
refinement, having apparently first picked it up from Indian traders in the 600s. Chinese
traders and entrepreneurs then brought their sugar to Java, where it was grown and sold
for domestic use. By the early 1800s, the Chinese ran a series
of plantations and processing factories near the sugar cane farms. This is because the
harvested sugar cane has to be processed near where it is grown - like 24-48 hours after
harvest. The sucrose inside the cane decays quickly. The Chinese imported specialized wooden equipment
tools from their homeland to handle this processing. After cutting the cane, you press it in order
to squeeze out the juice - a labor intensive process operated by two water buffalos. After then, you heat up the juice to boil
off the water and thicken the sugar juice into a syrup. The Chinese sugar boilers carefully
modify the heat to facilitate the creation of sugar crystals within this syrup. The crystals are then taken out of the syrup
in a process called "tapping out". We put the syrup into upside down cones and cover
the tops of those cones with wet clay. After a few days, we open the bottom and let the
syrup run off. The remaining sugar crystals are classified
by their color. The layers of sugar right underneath the dry clay often turn white and
is considered the best. Deeper down, the sugar turns dark. This is not as valuable. The remaining syrup is sold as molasses. The
crystals are re-cooked, pounded into powder and sold. Chinese immigrants largely ran this process
and did the skilled labor, funded by either the VOC or the government. In terms of manual
labor, a plantation had about 150-200 workers, recruited from the North Coast since Batavia
in the early 1800s was pretty sparse. ## From VOC to the Dutch Growing without restraints or checks from
the government, the VOC grew corrupt and cruel. Their fall took decades and is beyond the
scope of this video. Nevertheless, it did fall into bankruptcy, and the Dutch government
eventually nationalized it in 1799. With the trade monopoly abolished, an opportunity
for sugar came when prices rose due a slave revolt in 1791 in what is now modern Haiti.
Chinese and European entrepreneurs expanded their production of sugar. In 1816, the extent of Dutch holdings in Java
was basically a few port cities and Batavia plus the sugar plantations surrounding that
city. But after taking direct control, the Dutch government continued the VOC's conquest
of the Javanese lands. These was a brief lapse starting in 1811 when
the British led by Stamford Raffles took over Java for five years and tried to establish
land taxes, elected village governments, and free trade. But per the Convention of London
in 1814, the British "returned" Java to the Netherlands. ## The First Sugar Crash By then, the Chinese-run sugar plantation
industry in Java was at the end of its rope. These Chinese sugar processors required a
large workforce of animals, took a long time to make their sugar, and the cooking process
also used a lot of sparse firewood. By the late 1700s, they had stripped the surrounding
Batavia lands of its forests. Real talk, the Chinese entrepreneurs did not
like the sugar business. It meant managing large workforces of animals and people. Sugar
prices fluctuated wildly. And the Dutch were seemingly always cheating them. The end of the Napoleonic Wars in the 1820s
reopened trade with the global colonies, with the production of goods like sugar rapidly
scaling up. But over-production caused global sugar prices
to crash, and the Chinese sugar plantation owners found themselves financially ruined.
Sugar production fell so low that Java was actually importing their sugar. ## The Java War This economic misery was abetted by war - the
Java War. In 1823, a massive uprising broke out against
Dutch rule. The uprising was led by Prince Diponegoro, who first rebelled against the
Dutch for not recognizing his own position in the royal hierarchy. But the conflict tapped very popular sentiments
of anti-European discontent - including growing influence in Javan domestic affairs. The fighting was bitter. The Dutch estimated
that 2 million Javans - 80% of the whole population - were affected by the war. Some 200,000 Javanese
and 15,000 on the Dutch side - including 8,000 Europeans - perished. Diponegoro enjoyed lasting support from the
people, who funded his guerrilla campaigns. He styled himself a long-awaited "just king"
who would free the ordinary people from oppression - a millenarian. In response, the Dutch executed a long anti-guerrilla
action involving a series of fortifications to restrict the fighters’ movements and
sap their local support. The tactic reminds me of what the British did with the blockhouses
many years later during the Second Boer War. Then finally in 1830, Diponegoro was captured
by the Dutch during negotiations for surrender. Dutch writings indicate that they felt that
he was not acting on good faith. Javan writings indicate that he was dishonorably betrayed. However it happened, he was banished away
from the island, finally ending the war. The Java War forever changed Indonesian history
like how the Indian Rebellion of 1857 changed the British colonization of India. That same year 1830, the southern provinces
of the United Kingdom of the Netherlands successfully won their independence - creating what is
now the country of Belgium. The Belgian Revolution tore away the profitable
Flemish textile mills from the Dutch government. So the Dutch no longer had the money to subsidize
its Dutch East Indies colonies. With the colonies' finances drained by war
and the home government unable to help, the newly appointed Dutch governor-general Johanns
van den Bosch instituted the Cultivation System to raise government revenue. ## Cultivation System The Cultivation System (Het Cultuurstelsel)
worked like this. The Javanese natives are obligated to devote
a portion of their lands and labor to growing certain cash crops like rice, coffee, and
sugar. Legally, that portion was set at about 20% of a community’s land. In practice,
the portion was everything that the village natives can possibly bear. The crops are harvested by laborers who then
sold their product to a semi-governmental trade monopoly called the Netherlands Trading
Society. Theoretically, they received wages, but it is not clear how much of those wages
reached them thanks to deducted land taxes and third parties skimming off the top. Private entrepreneurs - at first the Chinese
and later Europeans - helped process the sugar. They found this work extremely profitable
especially in the early years. The Trading Society would then export and
sell the finished goods on the open market back in Europe, earning a very handsome margin. Sugar was not the only thing grown under the
System. For instance, coffee was grown in the highlands and 14 of the 21 residencies
in Java were uninvolved in sugar. But sugar quickly overtook coffee in the 1850s and it
became the most profitable cash crop. Sugar's growth was abetted by new technologies
and social systems. Most notably, the Dutch government in 1835 invited a British mill
owner surnamed Etty to introduce steam power and his vacuum pan to the factories. Vacuum pans simplified sugar processing by
reducing the pressure, making it easier to purify the syrup. The British also brought
steam powered metal cylinders to crush cane. Each of Java's 95 factories had these systems
by 1877. ## Forced Labor Like with many plantations, the Cultivation
system was not built on top of advanced technology or automation, but cheap land and labor. Or
to put it more realistically, forced labor. The government in Batavia set targets that
devolved to local colonial officials, who then passed them to regional elites, who in
turn passed them down to the village heads. The heads offered up conscripts for the harvesting
and factories. The system was very lightly regulated - the
Dutch Department of Colonies had just 67 employees. So ultimately, the Cultivation System was
administered by regional elite Javans who were most often incentivized not by explicit
military coercion - though it was certainly there - but money. The Dutch issued financial kickbacks to the
village heads based on how much their conscripts harvested and processed. Theoretically, these
kickbacks were to be distributed to the actual workers, but the elites were allowed to do
whatever they pleased with the money. Some of these regional head elites near the
top of the system - called the "bupati" or regents - earned legendary wealth. Each of
the five regents of Priangan, an area in West Java, earned 250 times what a median laborer
did. To compare, in 2022 the average CEO of an
S&P500 company earned 272 times what their median workers did - according to Reuters. The village heads or chiefs were key to the
whole process. To retain power, the Dutch intervened in how those chiefs were selected.
Previously, chiefs were communally selected and served for a limited period. The Dutch
backed specific village heads amenable to their ways and left them in power for longer. ## Harsh Conditions By the 1860s, over 2.5 million Javans were
involved in the island's sugar industry. Most often, a household in the village had
to send its male head, though replacements and bribes can be offered. We have little
information about the work conditions during these times, but it was no walk in the park. Hygienic conditions on the plantations were
very poor. Workers were housed in squalid enclosures called kampungs in groups of one
or two thousand. Such tight conditions frequently caused problems. Or they had to commute, walking up to 10 miles
a day back and forth. They worked 8 days straight and then went home for 1-8 days before returning. The plantation owners did not provide much
food to their workers especially during the 1830s in the early days of the System and
many workers went hungry or worse. Low wages garnished by land taxes and native elites
did not help. Malnourishment, overwork, and unclean conditions
caused laborers to die from local epidemics in large numbers. Typhoid fever, cholera and
dysentery alone killed up to 4% of unskilled laborers. A fascinating demographic study in 2021 reviewed
crude death rates for laborers and non-laborers at the time. They determine that the Cultivation
System - with its forced labor and bad conditions - raised mortality rates in the native population
by 10-30%. ## Profits and Profits The cruel genius of the Dutch system was that
it stepped right into traditional power structures, restructuring them whenever needed for their
own benefit. Village peasants had long been obliged to
perform labor tribute for their regional elites and village heads, without pay and under the
threat of violence. The Dutch turned these tribute relationships into efficient labor
gangs for their system. At the system's peak in the 1850s, sugar and
coffee produced vast profits for the Dutch government. Net transfers to the government
provided 30-50% of all its revenue and amounted to 4% of the entire Dutch GDP. To compare, transfers to the UK from their
colonies in India in the 1880s were worth just 2% of British GDP. To add, that number
included profits generated by private industry in India and thus not the government's. All of the profits extracted from Java flowed
directly to the administration. Amsterdam and the colonial governments of the Dutch
East Indies were funded by the forced labor of the peasants. ## Protest Back Home As early as 1848, reports about the cruelty
of the Cultivation System started to emerge. W. M. Baron van Hoëvell was a Dutch minister
who frequently criticized the colonial system. After helping to organize a large uprising
in the 1840s, he was subsequently evicted. But back home, he became a ferocious critic
of the Cultivation System. As word got to Holland, questions of slavery
and colonialism circulated through society. It was doubly uncomfortable when the Dutch
government itself was earning so much money on the back of this exploitative system. A major book published in 1860 called "Max
Havelaar; or, The Coffee Auctions of the Dutch Trading Company" by a Dutch writer named Multatuli
widely publicized the cruelties of the Dutch colonial system - raising awareness that their
wealth came as a result of suffering abroad. Slowly throughout the 1860s, the Home Government
phased out parts of the Cultivation System on a per-crop basis. First pepper, then indigo,
tea, and cinnamon. Sugar and coffee were last to go. In some areas, Cultivation-era contracts
for coffee were still being delivered to warehouses into the 1910s. ## The New System The end of the Cultivation System shifted
the sugar industry away from government control to free enterprise. Private entrepreneurs were given more control
of the sugar industry's operations. They started paying wages, cleaned up their kampungs, and
temporarily leased rice fields from the villages to grow cane. This change gave the chiefs even more power.
They were the ones helping to negotiate the land leases - and more abuses happened. Peasants
unwilling to lease out their land were coerced into doing so, setting fire to their fields
as a last-ditch measure of protest. Many sugar plantations were then wiped out
in the 1880s thanks to fierce market competition from sugar beets in Europe. But the sugar
industry recovered from the crash and grew to become very successful. After the Great Depression, however, sugar
prices fell when countries put strong protections on their markets. In an attempt to stabilize
prices, an international consortium of sugar providers set up what is called the Chadbourne
Plan - imposing export-quotas on themselves. Unfortunately, the Chadbourne Plan did not
go as planned. Java sugar production fell to new lows in the 1930s. Production recovered
just a bit in 1941 ... Just in time for the Japanese invasion and
occupation in 1942. This ended the Javanese sugar empire for good. ## Conclusion The Cultivation System enriched the Dutch
in the first half of the 1800s, and its impact continues to be felt in Indonesia to this
day. Because sugar cane has to be processed so
quickly, factories were built in Java's heartlands. So the Dutch also had to build roads, water
wheels, and ports for those factories. Essential infrastructure for economic growth. This investment was originally done to exploit
the sugar, but it helped the Javanese after the Dutch left. An interesting economic history
paper from MIT in 2018 finds that areas hosting cane factories during that era are today more
industrialized and educated than areas without factories. It adds an intriguing angle to the Dutch colonial
story in Indonesia. Nevertheless, the Cultivation System was one of the most extractive colonial
systems to have existed, and is a stain on those who propagated it.