The world runs on electronics and semiconductor 
chips. Many of these chips are made in massive,   multi-billion facilities run by foundries 
like TSMC, Samsung, and GlobalFoundries. Right now the world is going through a 
protracted shortage of these semiconductors.   Especially in the case of TSMC, the 
most advanced foundry out there,   there is only a limited amount of capacity 
available for all of its hundreds of customers. So why can't TSMC just build another factory?   Obviously more factories 
need to be brought online. Just how hard can it be? In this video I want to talk about the logistical 
and financial challenges that foundries tackle   when building and running a new fab. 
What are the thorny construction issues   and financial tradeoffs involved? I have done these engineering and construction 
videos before for the Hong Kong Airport and the   Taipei MRT. I will link them in the description 
below. Super fun but they are always complicated   and so much is left on the cutting room 
floor. Please forgive me for any errors. Let us begin with the basics. A fab is shorthand for a semiconductor 
fabrication facility. It houses offices,   locker rooms, storage facilities, test 
and packaging rooms, and the cleanroom. These are massive facilities - aircraft carriers 
on land. Take for example, TSMC's Fab 14,   a Giga-Fab located in my hometown of Tainan. 
Completed in 2008 over the span of two years,   the multi-story building has over 
114,000 square meters in floor space. And like an aircraft carrier, Fab 14 houses 
its own cafes, cafeterias, convenience stores,   bakeries and bookstores. Unlike an aircraft 
carrier, it has car parking. Everything needed to   manufacture wafers at scale. At full capacity, Fab 
14 churns out 30,000 pizza-sized wafers a month. This is an amazing, spare-no-expense facility. 
How does a company create such a thing? Imagine that you want to build and rent out rooms 
in a 1,000 room resort hotel to take advantage of   a hot tourist region. Constructing the whole thing 
all at once would take years. You are also not   sure how long the tourist boom is going to last 
and if it will still be around when you are done. So ... what if you build and complete just part 
of the resort first? You tell your construction   crews to start and finish, say, 300 rooms. 
That gets done in a year and you can start   making money on those rooms right away. Once 
the money is in hand you build the rest. This is, in short, how TSMC and other foundries 
build a fab. Fab construction in its entirety   takes about 3 years from start to end. This 
is a long time no matter how you spin it.   Semiconductor chips and the process nodes that 
made them become outdated extremely quickly.   The profitable economic life of a 
process flow is about 3-4 years.   Afterwards, the unit cost of 
a chip drastically declines. Considering their staggering cost and the nature 
of the business, you want to be able to get paid   back as soon as you can on your multi-billion 
dollar investment. No company can have its $20   billion fab sitting idle at the site. TSMC needs 
to get it up and running as soon as possible. So the company breaks down the entire construction 
into separate and parallel packages or "phases".   Construction begins long before 
the whole design is complete.   The process gets to production much faster, but 
as a result, gets fantastically more complex. You start by figuring out where to put your new 
fab. You are considering a variety of factors   when trying to decide on a site. What 
are the tax incentives? How much land is   available to build on? Are there enough qualified, 
well-educated workers around that you can hire? Available infrastructure like constant water 
and power is especially critical. When AMD (now   GlobalFoundries) announced that it would build a 
fab in New York's Luther Forest Technology Center,   local officials said that it would take 
two years to get the necessary water,   sewage and road connections completed. 
It ended up taking seven years. For that particular project, water 
was the biggest obstacle. The local,   state and federal governments as 
well as various private entities   pitched in over $65 million to build a 
28 mile pipeline and a purification plant   on the Hudson river capable of purifying 14 
million gallons of water a day. And that is in   New York, which for practical purposes has an 
unlimited amount of water for industrial use. TSMC's fabs use a stunning amount of water.   In 2013, those fabs by themselves 
generated 19 million tons of wastewater.   It is undoubtedly higher today. Tainan the entire 
city that same year generated 29 million tons.   Taiwan gets a lot of rain but it suffers 
from its own water supply issues.   As a result, Tainan has requested that TSMC's 
fabs try to recover 85% of the water it uses. To meet those goals, the company built 
a large rain collection system to   capture rainwater and store it in 700 ton 
tanks. Wastewater generated from industry   is treated for 25 different 
chemicals and can be reused.   If not reusable, then it is put into the 
cooling tower to help maintain temperatures. Geographic and geological concerns also play a 
role in placing the site. Taiwan happens to be   a very earthquake-prone location. I have another 
video about the earthquake risk to TSMC's fabs   but to summarize, the company builds dampers 
into the facility to reduce tremors by up to 40%.   These of course all cost money and 
need to be done right and on time. With all of these considerations, the 
cooperation (and tax incentives) of local   government is critical. California's Silicon 
Valley no longer has fabs for a good reason.   They all had to leave for environmental 
and resource constraint reasons. I did a video previously about TSMC's move to 
Taiwan's south. There is also another regarding   its decision to enter the China market. Both are 
worth checking out and are in the TSMC playlist. At the heart of a semiconductor fab is the 
cleanroom. The cleanroom is where the chip   fabrication happens. Because a single 
piece of dust can render a chip useless,   pure air is constantly pumped in and 
anyone entering needs to wear bunny suits. The size of these rooms - TSMC's Fab 14 
cleanroom is 31,000 square meters large   or over five and a half soccer fields 
- combined with increasing demands on   air purity make clean room construction 
pricier than ever. Their cost skyrocketing   as expensive HVAC machines have to be brought in 
to maintain purity throughout such larger spaces. Fab cleanrooms have three types of 
configurations: A ballroom style,   tunnel style and mini-environment style. The 
ballroom allows for the maximum flexibility.   The tunnel, less so, but is also cheaper. The mini-environment, which is what TSMC 
uses, comprises of compartments segmented   by the level of cleanliness. So you have one 
compartment with class 1, another with class 10,   and class 1000. This helps keep costs down 
as HVAC machines only need to maintain   strict levels of cleanliness in a fraction 
of the overall room. It also allows TSMC to   start production in one environment while crews 
simultaneously fill out the other environments. Speaking of filling out ... The equipment inside the fab 
typically makes up to 75%   of the cost of the entire facility. So 
selecting and acquiring the right equipment   is critical in making sure that the whole 
fab is delivered on time and within budget. Tradeoffs need to be made everywhere throughout 
the process. Here is one small example.   You are bringing in your equipment and 
need to place it inside your cleanroom.   Where do you locate it? At the time of 
cleanroom design, this might not be clear. So you decide to expand the range of your piping,   HVAC and utilities throughout 
all your micro-environments.   This offers you maximum future flexibility to 
deal with any unforeseen issues, but at the same   time bloats the budget. But if you don’t do this 
right and mess up the placements then there’s the   potential of an even more expensive work stoppage. 
So it is all about making the right trade-off. A cutting-edge ASML EUV machine can 
cost over $150 million by itself.   The company only makes 50 a year. Making 
sure that it is properly brought over   and installed in the cleanroom without 
defects must be a nerve-wracking process. Accidents can happen. In one 
anonymous insurance report,   I read about a $5 million piece of equipment that 
got dropped as it was unloaded from an elevator.   The device looked fine on the outside but 
inside it had suffered trauma and needed   to be returned to Japan for recalibration at 
a cost of $200,000 and incalculable lost time. Generally, almost all semiconductor 
foundries run their fabs on top of   precise data management and tracking. They 
want to know how well their processes are   yielding and whether or not there can be 
room for improvement. You want to get to   a good place as soon as possible so that the 
fab can start making money for the company. And there’s always room for improvement. The 
equipment is brand new. The process steps are   brand new. There is a lot of fat to cut within the 
thousand or so steps that go into making a chip.   So teams on the ground should 
have both the technical competence   and the leeway to make changes whenever they 
recognize the opportunity. The engineers work   together with the operators and the technicians 
to recognize, diagnose and solve such problems. Internal foundry teams also work very 
closely with the vendors that make the   equipment they are using. The vendors know 
the equipment best, after all. They made it. They also work with the customer to 
make sure that the product they get   is the one that they want. This means that 
for the most advanced nodes you want to make   sure that you are working with customers 
you really trust. Newer, more unfamiliar   customers might start with more mature nodes 
first before progressing to the hot stuff. As TSMC embarks on building its fab in Arizona - 
its first advanced construction project situated   on the other side of an ocean - it is hard to 
appreciate just how rough and unforgiving of   a task the whole thing is. I suppose it is 
like what they say about ducks: You see a   duck floating on the water, but have no idea how 
frantically it is paddling beneath the surface. To construct, equip and optimize a fab so 
that it can start making on-time deliveries   of a fantastically advanced product 
is hard. You are building a boat,   launching it into the sea, and setting sail before 
you have finished installing half the engines.   And now they got to do it 11,400 
kilometers away from home.