From the very beginning, people 
have wanted their own chips. LSI Logic wanted to make that dream come true   on a massive scale. And for a few 
years, they did manage to do that. Founded by Fairchild alumni,   LSI Logic became one of the hottest and 
fastest growing semiconductor businesses. But then the market changed under 
their feet. In this video, we look   at one of Silicon Valley's now-forgotten 
pioneers: The master of ASICs, LSI Logic. ## Beginnings Wilfred "Wilf" Corrigan was 
born in 1938 in Liverpool,   England. He is the son of a dock 
worker who served in the British Navy. After getting his degree in chemical 
engineering, Wilf took a job at a company   called Transistron in Boston. Solely because 
it paid the best. That was how he got into   semiconductors. Then he joined Motorola out in 
Arizona, working in the early days of epitaxy. Then in 1968, he went to the iconic Fairchild 
Semiconductor. Fairchild Semiconductor was then   struggling. Some of their products were not 
selling well and competition was heating up. They were also suffering the loss 
of Charlie Sporck. Sporck had   run a tight and efficient ship until he 
defected over to National Semiconductor. So Sherman Fairchild, investor and Fairchild's 
owner, decided to hire Lester Hogan from Motorola   Semiconductors to run the larger Fairchild 
Camera & Instrument company. Tighten things up. Hogan brought along with him eight members of the   Motorola team - dubbed "Hogan's 
Heroes" after the 1960s TV show. ## Running Fairchild
Corrigan was one of the "Hogan's Heroes", and later in 1970 was made the 
semiconductor division's CEO. There he got a front row seat to the 
founding of Silicon Valley. Slowly,   Fairchild’s iconic talents left 
to found today's iconic companies. Robert Noyce and Gordon Moore left to found Intel. 
Corrigan recalls that if he could go back in time,   he would have sued Intel for taking 
Fairchild intellectual property. Then, Jerry Sanders left to found AMD. Corrigan 
recalls how hard he tried to keep Sanders,   a sales wizard and his good friend, at Fairchild. In 1974, Corrigan became CEO of the 
Fairchild parent company. Five years later,   that parent company was taken over by Schlumberger 
- the oil services company - for $425 million. Corrigan saw the writing on the wall and very 
quickly got the heck out of Dodge. Unsurprisingly,   Schlumberger had no idea how to run a 
semiconductor manufacturer and ran what was left   of Fairchild into the ground. Later, they sold it 
again to National Semiconductor for $200 million. Corrigan signed a 1-year non-compete 
agreement before leaving Fairchild.   After a brief flirtation with venture capital, 
he decided to go start his own company after   his non-compete expired. But what would it do? 
A memory bubbled up from his time at Fairchild. ## Custom Chips
In the mid-1960s, the number of diodes, resistors, and such that could fit onto a single 
integrated circuit or IC was about 20. As one of the technology's early 
leaders, Fairchild had customers   asking them to make integrated circuits 
customized for certain functions. The value was obvious. These customers 
were using logic boards with off-the-shelf   processors and TTL chips. If you could 
replace the whole thing with an IC,   then you can cut cost, size, and 
increase performance. Win-win. Fairchild did a few for the big mainframe computer 
companies, but largely found it uneconomical. It   was most profitable for them to make simple chips 
at very high volumes. And designing and making a   custom chip using the existing techniques of the 
time could take up to 2 years. Just way too long. But how long could that last? In 1965, Gordon 
Moore - then Fairchild's R&D head - postulated   a future in which the number of components 
on an IC would double every 18 months: Moore's Plot. It wasn't called Moore's Law back 
then. Moore reasoned that if his Plot held,   then it would have several massive 
implications for the business. Integrated circuits will get very big, 
very fast. But as they got bigger,   they would have to become more 
specialized - customized for niche   needs within industry. That’s the only 
way we can use all that new power, right? And because those chips were so 
customized, the customer would not   need them in huge volumes. So a custom chip 
revolution meant a whole lot of low-volume,   specialized chips. Which would be 
bad for Fairchild, Moore reasoned. ## EDA This all seemed like a threat to the business. 
But Moore also saw it as an opportunity. One of the first opportunities Moore 
saw was in software. If software tools   can somehow shorten the chip design process,   then custom chips can be more economical. So he 
founded Fairchild's Computer-Aided Design Group,   recruiting several experts in electronic 
computer-aided design from Stanford. A notable product was FAIRSIM, a logic 
simulator written by Jim Koford. A logic   simulator tries to predict the 
behavior of digital circuits. Once you are happy with the design as simulated 
by FAIRSIM, you can use Fairchild's automatic   placement and routing tools to wire those 
circuits together and create a layout.   Computer tools would also check the layout 
before you go start making the photomask. So by 1970, we had the first computer-aided design 
or CAD system - sometimes also referred to as   EDA or Electronic Design Automation - taking 
you from end-to-end from logic simulation to   testing. When properly used, it eliminated the 
need for what was then called a "breadboard" - a   blank construction base for prototyping 
circuits used in the early days of radio. ## Micromosaic To help produce those custom designs, 
Fairchild had a chip called the "Micromosaic". You can think of it as like 
an easily customizable starter   template. Integrated circuits 
are basically collections of   devices connected together with thin 
metal wires known as interconnects. The Micromosaic had about 80-100 
unconnected logic gates - a gate   array. The devices were printed and etched 
onto the silicon, but interconnects had   not yet been laid down to connect them. 
This later step is called metallization. Using Fairchild's CAD tools, you 
can design a custom chip by making   connections between these various 
gates. Fairchild would then lay   down the interconnects on the Micromosaic 
in order to implement your custom design. These custom-ish chips were suitable 
for running special calculations.   Many Micromosaic customers were calculator-makers. Today we would call these Application 
Specific Integrated Chips, or ASICs.   Today there are ASICs designed to do video 
encoding, Bitcoin, or matrix multiplication   very well. But back in the 1960s, they were 
just called "custom" or "semi-custom" chips. ## Struggles So that was the custom chips team at 
Fairchild when Hogan's Heroes arrived. The new team brought a more conservative approach, 
and while they appreciated the technology,   the division was losing money. The CAD and 
Micromosaic teams explored several ideas   to raise revenue, but the whole industry 
was going through a downturn at the time. They even tried partnering with Intel to 
produce custom chips. Such a partnership   would have been interesting - but those 
plans fell through due to lack of investment. And then in 1971, Intel introduced the 
first microprocessor. These versatile   chips convinced many people that 
custom chips would no longer be   necessary. So finally in 1972, 
Fairchild closed the team down. ## Changing Times As it turns out, the team over at 
Fairchild really had been too early. Microprocessors and other products 
did not demolish customer demand   for smaller volumes of custom chips. 
Competitors like Motorola and American   Microsystems Inc struggled to profitably 
produce good silicon ASICs and left. The 1970s saw cheap and powerful computers 
capable of running Computer-Aided Design   software. Commercial CAD/EDA software vendors 
started to emerge, and they promoted the ASIC   design concept. Because of course doing so 
would mean more sales for their software tools. Chip manufacturing changed too. Namely 
with the rise of Complementary metal-oxide   semiconductors or CMOS. CMOS is 
more suitable for very large ICs   with 10,000 to 20,000 transistors. While 
the technology has been around since 1963,   it was not until the mid-1970s that 
the Americans started to adopt it. And finally, the 1970s had created a 
semiconductor fab glut. Governments plowed   hundreds of millions of dollars building fabs 
in Korea, Germany, England, and France. Decent   fabs that suddenly fell idle and needed stuff 
to make. It would not cost a lot to get wafers. All of this crafted a new environment far 
more amenable to a company targeting the   ASIC business. Corrigan decided 
that 1980 was the right time,   and so started to get the old 
gang from Fairchild back together. ## Getting the Gang Together Corrigan recruited extensively from 
his former colleagues at Fairchild. He turned around a lot from back when he ran 
Fairchild. People remembered him as being   "dictatorial" and a tyrant. But he apparently 
chilled out after leaving, and was much more   savvy. Fairchild people were convinced 
he changed and came back to work for him. One of the first guys he got onboard was 
Rob Walker, member of one of the original   Fairchild ASIC teams. Walker then puts together 
the rest of the 1970s team, including Jim Koford. Walker later became a technology historian 
and wrote pretty much the best book on LSI   Logic - Silicon Destiny. I highly recommend it as 
one of the few good resources about this company. For marketing and sales, Corrigan 
added Bill O'Meara, who years earlier   headed up Fairchild's MOS Product Marketing Group. Corrigan then hired Mitchell "Mick" 
Bohn as the founding CFO. Together,   the four of them co-founded LSI Logic. The 1970s was a rough decade for the US 
semiconductor industry. The Japanese were   sky-high, and the conventional wisdom was that 
only the big American companies like Intel,   AMD, or Texas Instruments can compete with them. Corrigan and LSI Logic wanted to prove them 
wrong. That a silicon startup can compete   without raising billions. LSI Logic raised 
just $6 million at a $10 million valuation. Various investors included Kazuo 
Inamori, founder of Kyocera,   and Don Valentine, founder of Sequoia Capital. ## Going Fabless
$6 million is a lot of money. I mean, I wouldn't mind having $6 million. 
Feel free to mail me a check. But $6 million   falls far short of what is needed to 
build a semiconductor fab in the 1980s. So LSI Logic became one of the first fabless 
companies. Their founding product was very   similar to the Micromosaic. You start 
with premade, uncommitted gate arrays. These called "masterslices", and they were 
basically done except for that last metallization   step to build the interconnects between the 
gates. Because these uncommitted slices were   all the same before the customization step, you 
can make them at high volume to achieve scale. Masterslices were made at a partner fab offshore 
and then shipped to LSI's offices in Milpitas,   California. There, LSI connects the 
gates per the customer's design,   tuning it for performance and yield. 
So rather than waiting for what had   once been two or so years, a customer 
can get their chips in just 12 weeks. LSI's first customer was 3H, 
a power supply tester company.   Rob Walker later recalled how in 1981 3H 
wanted LSI to do three designs and they   were exactly the kind of ASICs nobody 
wants to do - simple and low volume. Walker didn't want to do it too, but beggars 
can't be choosers and LSI delivered the first   prototypes on Christmas 1981. For a long 
time, 3H was LSI Logic's only customer - and   they jokingly complained about having to give so 
many references to other prospective customers. LSI's first manufacturing partner was Japan's 
Toshiba, signing a deal in 1981. At first,   it was mutually beneficial. Toshiba 
had been a laggard in Japan. The deal   with LSI would help use their capacity, 
which at the time laid largely unused. For LSI, Toshiba brought 
CMOS manufacturing capacity,   execution, and yields far beyond what 
a startup would normally be capable of. Unfortunately, over time that relationship 
soured. As LSI's ASIC business grew,   Toshiba started to sense conflict. Gradually,   the two turned into competitors, forcing 
painful price cuts and a breakup. ## Putting It Together Rapidly, the company built up a series 
of products to offer their customers. To jumpstart their masterslices and EDA 
stack, LSI licensed technologies from other   companies in Silicon Valley to eventually cobble 
together the integrated LSI Development System. The software was critical to the company's 
success. It was how customers can bring   their chip designs to the market as 
fast as possible as well as without   failure. The "without failure" part was super 
important. Walker recalls in a later interview: > At LSI Logic, we insisted that our customers 
complete logic test patterns before manufacturing   ... There were a series of bad designs out 
there. Our competitors were so incompetent Progress on the various product lines was 
good enough that the investors came through   again in March 1982 with a second round 
of capital - some $16 million in total. ## Coming Out Strong In 1982, LSI Logic did 
about $5 million in revenue,   but unfortunately turned a $3.7 million loss. But that was alright. It took some time to 
get started. There is a lot of customer trust   involved. Since ASICs are not produced 
in high volume, the customer is putting   a lot on the line. If the ASIC supplier does 
not come through then the team shuts down. Some of LSI Logic's first big customers 
were mainframe computer makers like Digital   Equipment Company or DEC. Demand picked 
up thanks to LSI's aggressive sales force. In 1983, the company made about $35 million in 
revenue. That May, they went public on the NASDAQ   - getting a $600 million valuation based on a $5 
million revenue quarter and raising $147 million. The year after that, 1984, revenue more 
than doubled to $84 million. Nice. Symmetry! ## Going Global
LSI Logic had a big market in the United States, but Corrigan pushed the 
company to quickly go abroad. His strategy was to build up Japanese and European 
subsidiaries - Nihon LSI and LSI Logic Limited,   respectively - and have them be run largely 
autonomously almost like unaffiliated startups. And like startups, LSI sold shares of the 
subsidiaries to local investors - which not   only raised needed capital but also 
helped get local skin in the game. Revenues continued to grow like a weed. 
Sales went from $84 million in 1984 to $140   million in 1985. The year after that, $200 
million in revenue. And then $379 million. In the 1980s, the ASIC business was 10% of 
the whole semiconductor market. And in 1986,   LSI controlled 25% of that market 
worldwide and 40% of the American   market. They were kings of 
the hottest game in town. Amazing right? But a funny thing happened 
on the way to a billion dollars, the company   wasn't making any profits. The company 
had been most profitable back in 1983.   Since then profits have floundered. They 
actually turned losses in 1989 and 1990. ## Decline of the ASIC As it turns out, the ASIC business did not last. A   confluence of business factors conspired 
to take down the ASIC industry and LSI. The first major happening was the rise 
of VLSI - a class of higher complexity   chip often classed as having 100,000 logic 
gates versus just 10,000 in the LSI era. But in order to best take advantage 
of these rising complexities,   you needed to do more than 
just one or two metal layers. You needed to go full custom using standard cells 
- predesigned building blocks for making a logic   function in silicon. This was aided by the big 
third-party EDA companies - like Cadence, Mentor,   and Daisy - which simplified much of the work that 
previously made standard cell design challenging. Second, in 1985 Xilinx released the first 
field-programmable gate array - the FPGA.   These were chips that can be programmed 
and reprogrammed after fabrication. The early FPGAs were not very good at the 
start. But over time, they would enable   customers to turn around certain designs 
even faster than they could with LSI,   consuming the low end of the custom chip business. And for unknown reasons, LSI 
never went into that business   themselves. Perhaps because they were 
distracted with a different threat ... Which is what we have at the 
high end of the custom chips   world - the founding of TSMC and the 
emergence of the silicon foundry.   Those foundries worked hand in hand 
with the third-party EDA companies. So now if someone wanted a custom chip 
- particularly a VLSI one - they did not   have to pay a middleman like LSI Logic. Instead, 
they bought a license for EDA software plus some   standard cell IP and make a design themselves 
which they then can take direct to TSMC. ## Setback The ASIC business began a slow 
decline throughout the 1990s. LSI soon recognized that things really had 
changed - and that a strategic shift was   necessary. In 1992, LSI Logic laid off a 
thousand employees and closed facilities   in Germany and others. The $100 million 
restructuring caused a big net loss that year. That same year, they also exited 
Sematech, the high profile American   consortium set up back in 1987 to upscale 
American semiconductor manufacturing. Financials were probably the primary reason - 
but Corrigan also believed - as a few others   did - that Sematech fell prey to the needs 
of only the big semiconductor companies like   Intel. An Los Angeles Times article 
quoted President George Wells saying: > "We were not too enthralled with the 
idea of LSI money contributing to the   equipment industry,” Wells said. He agreed 
that that was a worthy goal but added that   LSI hadn’t joined Sematech “to be a venture 
capitalist for the chip-equipment industry”. The company continued to struggle for 
profits. In an industry that produced   25.4% annual returns for their 
investors, LSI did just 3.4%. But LSI nevertheless survived - transitioning 
to a new business - while other ASIC businesses   like VLSI Technology could not. VLSI was 
acquired in 1999 by Philips Semiconductor. ## Later Years
In 2004, Corrigan stepped down from the business. His successor, Abhi Talwalkar, came from 
Intel. Talwalkar continued the path that   LSI Logic was making in transforming 
from an ASIC maker making chips for all   sorts of applications around the world into a 
solutions vendor specializing in one industry. This remaking involved the jettison 
of the remaining fabs, turning the   company into a true fabless company. In 
2001, they struck an alliance with TSMC,   bringing 30% of their capacity to 
the now-famous 130 nanometer process. 80% of its revenues came from selling prewired 
standard IP and chips for consumer gadgets   like DVD recorders, broadband, networking, 
and video game machines. But by 2006, the   company was driving towards data centers and mass 
storage, which improved the company's prospects. Finally in late 2013, they were acquired 
by Avago - now Broadcom - for $6.6 billion.   Avago probably - and correctly 
- saw the opportunity to apply   their private equity-style cost-slashing 
approach to the very fatty LSI Logic. Hock Tan - Avago's ruthless 
Malaysian-American CEO - said at the time: > This combination will increase 
the company’s scale and diversify   our revenue and customer base ... As we 
integrate LSI onto the Avago platform,   we expect to drive LSI’s operating 
margins toward Avago’s current levels. ## Conclusion I want to thank several former LSI Logic 
employees who took the time to speak with   me about their times there. I appreciate your 
kindness and openness in sharing knowledge. Today, LSI logic is mostly forgotten. Many years 
has passed since it was the globe-trotting,   path-breaking fabless startup of the day. There is one more thing that I should 
mention. LSI Logic was the last place   that Jensen Huang worked at 
before he co-founded Nvidia. Joining at the tender age of 22 as a 
mere application engineer - employee   number 200 or so - he eventually 
rose to become Director of Coreware. He recalls in a later oral history about 
spending his time there working with the   luminaries of Silicon Valley, trying to 
help solve their problems. Those included: Jon Rubinstein, who was then at Arden Computer but 
would later join Apple and help develop the iPod. Andy Bechtolsheim, who was then 
trying to start Sun Microsystems. The founders of Silicon Graphics, as well as 
Gordon Bell, the father of the VAX Minicomputer. Jensen called it the "single best job on 
the planet." And it indeed seemed like a   great and glorious time to be in Silicon Valley.