(upbeat music) - So this smartwatch has one really interesting
trick up its sleeve that I haven't seen in any
other, and that, honestly, I don't think we're ever gonna see again. So at this point we know what a smartwatch is already, right? This is a stable, mature category. They deliver mostly across the board on all the same functions. And aside from the one crazy trick, this one is no exception. This is the OnePlus Watch 2, three years after the
original OnePlus Watch and it costs 300 bucks. So for the $300 you're spending, you're getting a pretty
nice circular watch design. It comes in this black or
silver stainless steel body and a sapphire cover glass over a 1.4 inch, 60 hertz AMOLED display. Design-wise, you could argue it takes cues from maybe the OnePlus 11 or the OnePlus 12 with
the way the camera bump is melted into the side rail of the phone. They've done a similar thing here with the buttons on the side of the watch. So there's a circular button at the top and this rectangular button at the bottom. And I kind of like it. It's a nice shape. It's got this little
subtle, classy variation of just the pure circle. And then the back looks
pretty standard too. You got the four pins at the
top, those are for charging. And it has all the sensors you'd expect for a smartwatch in the middle, optical heart rate sensor, pulse oximeter for blood oxygen, and of course, it still has
the interchangeable bands, same as gen one. And the whole thing is actually both IP 68 dust and water resistant and reaches a US military
standard for durability. Basically means it can also
withstand extreme temperature and moisture and shock among other things.
(watch taps) It's not too heavy,
it's built pretty well. This display goes up to a
thousand nits peak brightness. So it looks good. It's
built well across the board. Nice. So what's the catch? What's the weird twist? Well at the beginning I
mentioned like we already kind of know what a smartwatch is, which is a tiny computer on
your wrist with a tiny screen and a tiny battery. And that's fine. Like they all tend to have
pretty short battery lives just because they're so small, and so you kind of just
charge 'em every day. And that's the way it is. Like the main competitors
here are the Apple Watch, which is 18 hours, although that's not the
most direct competitor 'cause that's the iPhone. But the Galaxy Watch, one of the best, 40 hours of battery, and the Pixel Watch, the newest one, 24 hours of battery life. But this one, OnePlus
is claiming 100 hours. 100 hour battery life in Smart Mode, which is not the battery saving mode, it's actually the
default mode out the box. 100 hours. So 96 hours is four days. I feel like, you know, 100 sounds cooler so they just went with 100. But four days of battery
sounds a lot less inconvenient. So, you know, I had to
put that to the test. So for the past four straight days I've been that guy walking around with both an Apple Watch Ultra, which claims 36 hours of normal use and this thing. Doing all the same stuff
with both watches on, getting notifications, doing workouts, just poking around the UI. And by the end, I was actually
very impressed with both. So the $800 Apple Watch Ultra actually over performed the
36 claimed hours for me. By hour 56 it was about ready to die. Now meanwhile, the OnePlus
Watch had about 15% left. Now you're probably thinking, wait, that's not even close to
100, it's like 50 something. But OnePlus told me that if you turn the always on display off, that's good for two more
days of battery life, it's actually off by default. I turned it on for this test, but that would get you well
over the 100 hour mark. To be fair, that's also probably true about the Apple Watch Ultra. Now one detail to consider
that I think actually mattered for this particular test. I've been wearing hoodies a lot 'cause it's that type of weather. And so even with the sleeves
on this Chevron Hoodie, which I'll link it below 'cause you probably wanna check it out. It covers the watch. And so when you cover the
watch with your sleeve, it thinks it's in the dark 'cause the light sensors are covered so it turns the brightness
way down on the watch. And so I think that's why it outperformed the battery numbers that it's claiming is 'cause I had a sleeve
over it a lot of the times and the brightness was low. But even still, this $300 watch outperformed this $800 smartwatch
just in terms of battery. Now here's the thing. The way that they're
achieving this battery life is, I think, more interesting
than the battery life itself. This is the twist. See, most smart watches
have a chip inside, computing everything, with some high powered cores
and some high efficiency cores to balance out power and battery life. This watch has two entirely
separate processors and two different operating systems running for each of them. So there's a high powered
Snapdragon W5 inside, that's powering Wear OS 4 and that only lights up for
things connected to that. Then there's also a BES 2,700 chip that is always on and runs RTOS. And they both share the
same 32 gigs of base storage and two gigs of RAM. So Wear OS kicks on for
the more intensive tasks like maps or music playback. But the RTOS that's always on is for those basic, low power tasks: heart rate monitoring, phone calls, notifications, background stuff. It's like a hybrid car. It's really interesting. And a fully electric car,
you guys already know has all the benefits of
being really responsive but not the best range. But a gas car has a ton of range, just not as responsive as fully electric. So if you get a hybrid,
best of the both worlds, responsive and range. And this watch, it's a hybrid
with the best of both worlds, responsiveness and range. So I've been pretty impressed. You know, using this
thing, it's responsive. It has a ton of watch faces. There's a lot of custom workouts which look very familiar with tracking and everything that
still sends all the data to the OHealth app in
plenty of detail for me. I do still wish now, shoveling
snow was a workout type, but that's another story. But you know, these here are
regular weightlifting workouts. And also, can I say I
really like that it is hold to end the workout, not tap to end. So it's way harder to
accidentally stop a workout. Great idea. Also another weird quirk, this button here has a crown that rotates. But that rotation doesn't
actually do anything. It doesn't change the volume, it doesn't scroll up or down in anything. It does nothing. It's not
connected to anything. It just freely spins. apparently, that's
literally just to make it more durable upon impact. Doesn't serve any function. Also, it does have this weird hitch, that it hasn't really
gotten any less annoying, which is if I get a notification, I feel the buzz on my wrist, then I lift up my wrist and it takes like a full two seconds to show me the notification I just got. Not that two seconds is a
disaster, it's not a ton of time, but it's longer than you expect, and it kind of annoys me to have to wait in comparison to other watches, which will just show me the
notification right away. And I feel like you can
actually see the moment that it fires up the Snapdragon W5 and Wear OS kind of snaps
on right in front of you before it shows you that notification. It's very odd. But here's the other twist on top of everything we've already talked about. I don't think this dual chip system is all of the magic creating
this great battery life, because this watch also has
a 500 MilliAmp hour battery. Now 500 MilliAmp hours
doesn't sound like a lot, but here's the sizes
of other smart watches in competition with this
and their battery sizes and how long they last. And it's a little bigger
than you'd expect. Now if I gave the Pixel Watch 2, which also has a
Snapdragon W5, by the way. If I gave the Pixel Watch 2
a 500 MilliAmp hour battery, do we think it would last 50 hours? I don't know, but there you go. Honestly, at the end of the day I just came away from
this mostly just impressed that they actually kept the
price of this watch so low. Because two chips and two OSs and the work that goes into that, I dunno, to me that just sounds expensive and it's really not missing
anything else too drastic. I think it's competitive in a
lot of good ways at 300 bucks. So I think the clear positives would be: a nice design, really classy
looking design, nice display, dual frequency GPS, so
that's for better accuracy, and then of course
really good battery life. The four days we talked about is awesome, but if you put on power saver mode, it's up to 12 days of battery life. Now this is gonna disable a
lot of the Wear OS things, so it's just basic stuff,
exercises, heart rate monitoring, but you could get it to really
last a week if you wanted to. But then the weaknesses are definitely the delay in
checking your notifications. The haptics also aren't that nice, and there's no iPhone compatibility, but you already knew that. But I would also say the
charger is not that cool. Honestly, it's kind of clunky. I mean it works perfectly
fine, don't get me wrong, but it's just like a big plastic block with pins and magnets in it. But it'll get you a full
day's charge in 10 minutes and a full charge in an hour. So that's acceptable. But for 300 bucks, I'd say
OnePlus has redeemed itself from its previous
efforts in smart watches. It's pretty good. Like in a world of smartwatch gimmicks, there's the one with earbuds inside, there's the one for fitness, there's the one for the iPhone. Maybe this is the one
with the hybrid system and pretty good battery life. (upbeat music)
Maybe that's enough for you. Let me know in the comments below. Either way, that's been it. Thanks for watching. Catch you the next one. Peace. (upbeat music)