- We are 20 days, 23 hours, and 30 minutes into the new "Mystery Tech" era, in case you're trying
to keep track at home. I was pretty close on that one. (package thumping) Why is it metallicy rattling? I don't think that's good. CharaChorder. "As a CharaChorder owner, you have helped us take one step closer to achieving our mission
of getting the whole world to type at the speed of thought." - Oh, (beep). - Alright, great, I'm gonna hate this. Also, what a- - [Ken] That doesn't look
like it goes on on your head. (Ken laughing amusingly) - I'm very afraid that this is what my
keyboard is gonna look like. - So, I've seen this on TikTok, and this might actually piss you off more than any item that we have
had on "Mystery Tech" ever. - Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
- Let's go, let's go. - That's not a keyboard, that is... Oh, good Lord! So, it's a bunch of joysticks. You go up, down, left, right. Ooh. - [Ken] Can you see how scuffed up it is, like straight outta the box? - Quality wise, it seems a little meh. Now to be fair, I think
you can take this apart. So, it's got one of those
like retractable cables. - [Matt] But, I don't
know what that's for. - So, if you wanna have them separate, I think you can take it out of this. Like, you unscrew these screws here and you take off the metal support. - You can get pretty quick with this. It might be surprisingly
intuitive for not Austin 'cause he can't touch time. - Wait. - [Austin] Why is Matt sprinting? - The last time I saw
him sprint like that, it was because he got to go home. (everyone laughing relatably) - What is it? - [Austin] Oh no! - Yes! Yes, yes! - [Matt] Yes. - So, this was an early
episode of "Mystery Tech." Actually, this was like
maybe a year or two ago. This is a game controller,
it's fully 3D printed. And essentially, you
put your hand in here, and then you can kinda
push up down left, right? Like, I hated this with a passion. This is almost worse. Can I have a laptop, so I
can just get upset already? 'Cause we all know where this is going, let's just speed this up here. I'm going to attempt to type. It's gonna be bad. First of all, lemme just
start pushing some things and see what happens. So, if I go up- - [Jared] Do you wanna
look on the guide online before you just go in this blind? - No. Well, I'm just typing. I just typed the word "trun." U-T-O. (laughing amusingly) I'm typing weird words here. - So, there's combinations of gesture to get different letters. - If you go to their website,
they actually have classes that should walk you through it. - Why would I take a class? You're trying to tell me that
I need to learn something for this episode of "Mystery Tech"? - [Matt] Yeah, he didn't
even go to college. He didn't even go to high school. - [Ken] No, he did, he was at home. - And guess who's the boss? (everyone sighing unenthusiastically) I'm just typing "ouo nono, ono ouo." - [Ken] I've heard that song before. - Okay, here... Okay.
(everyone laughing amusingly) I will say, without a proper
guide on what I'm doing here, this is very difficult. One of my little nubbins
is an actual mouse cursor. - [Matt] It's crazy 'cause this is like the
ultimate lazy man input device, but also it requires so much effort. (Matt laughing amusingly) - This is like learning... What's a really obscure language? - [Matt] English, apparently. (everyone laughing amusingly) - Ow! This item is fairly cheaply made. You know, it's just
regular very cheap plastic which does not feel great. - [Matt] Oh, this is
gonna get embarrassing. - Their build cost? Ah, $17. The actual cost of this? $179. - [Jared] This is $300. - [Ken] That's like a Steam
Deck for PhD students. - Sorry, I'm just gonna
move this over here. Do you have a piece of tape? Can we just... - [Ken] No return policies. - What? - Come with me, friends, as
we swim through the ocean of mysterious technological
inventions to our next item. - [Jared] I was really hoping you were saying you were flying because our next item involves the air. - The Nreal Air. I've seen people talk about these. As far as I know, they're
like a HDMI display that goes on your face. It's all in Japanese. I did not know that Nreal
was a Japanese company. - [Jared] So, we had to import this. - [Austin] Really? - I don't know how
everyone else got it, but- - Everyone did sponsored videos, Jared. Everyone else got paid to do what we're doing for free right now. I don't know what I'm
getting myself into here. We've got our Nreal glasses, which do come in a nice
little carrying case, so I'll give 'em that. We got a polishing cloth, we got a manual. "Get to know your Nreal Air." So, we've got some like
little nose bridge things, so- (upbeat rhythmic music) - [Matt] Okay. - This is what happens when you don't let me
read the instructions! - [Matt] You did read the instructions! - We've got ourselves the glasses here, and oh boy, these are interesting. So, from the front,
they look pretty normal. But, on the inside you, you can see what looks
to be like a combiner. So, we've got ourselves
a USB-C to C cable. So, if I put these on straight,
well I can't see anything. Okay, how do I look? Do I look stylish and
like I'm in the future? - [Matt] You look like you
just had cataract surgery. (Matt laughing amusingly) - You have to have an app, and then you also have
to plug it into USB-C? - [Matt] Yes. - The USB-C plugs in
into like the end here. It will work with lots
and lots of devices. Do I see a Pixel? Nope, don't work with no Pixel. My entire activation and setup process is running inside of the edge
right now, so that is cool. (gently chiming) Oh, I heard a Windows chime. - [Soundclip] My eyes! (Matt laughing amusingly) - That's bright. Ow. I was not ready for that. Okay, lemme try that again. So essentially, to kinda
describe what I'm seeing, I would say the display is
like 50% of my field of view. Okay, let's pull up a YouTube video. So, I'm gonna watch, "This Is." Apple killed the
Lightning port apparently. So, what I'm seeing here is essentially a complete
mirror of the laptop display, but in the glasses. Which means that it's very bright. The color, the clarity, the sharpness, I mean, it actually looks honestly better than the actual laptop. Like a 70-inch nice
looking TV in front of me. And the audio is also pretty decent. It sounds like Matt's
talking into my head. You know what I bet this would
be fun for is actually gaming 'cause you've got a really
huge personal display in a way that even though
it's technically AR, it feels much more akin to something like a really
nice looking like say, Rift display or Quest
display or something. But, the difference is there's none of that kind of
like head tracking, right? So, as I move around, the screen is staying exactly
as if it's tied to my face. And also, the fact that
it's not full VR, right? Like, even though the
screen is quite bright, I can kind of see through it a little bit, especially if I turn the brightness down. I can easily see all the
way through to the camera. But, as I turn it up, it pretty much sort of drowns
out most of everything. But, anything that's slightly
darker, it mostly gets rid of. How much is this? - [Jared] So, that's the thing. We bought this before it was
officially available in the US- - Oh no. - [Jared] So, on Amazon
right now, it is $380. When we had to import it, it was $460. - Okay, that's a lotta money. Even $380, I think is a
lot of money for this. But okay, okay, let's give it a fair shot. I'm gonna plug this in to a
Samsung phone that is supported. Okay, I'm now verified, my Nebula account. Oh, it's updating the glasses
again, so I'm updating. Oh well, (laughing gently)
it's now in Deck's Mode. Also, the glasses have
turned themselves off. For $380, there's real potential here in using this as a head-mounted display that can give you some massive, like 100-inch display
right in front of you that's 1080p, clear, crisp. You've got audio built in. The problem is is that while all this AR
stuff seems super promising, I can't get it to work. So, did Ken just fall asleep? (Jared and Austin laughing amusingly) - I'm like so bored with this thing. (humming aggressively) - I'm just feeling in a wee mood. "NightWatch, the dock that turns your
Apple Watch into a clock." What the... What? - [Matt] It already does that. - "For all Apple Watch series." My BS radar is going off hard. Is this gonna be one of those
stupid magnifying glasses? - [Matt] It says it, "Magnify the face." (Jared laughing amusingly) - I hate this already! Is it even a dock? "Amplify the sound." What? What sound does the Apple Watch make? It is the NightWatch for
all Apple Watch series. You can magnify the face,
and you can charge it up, parentheses, "Charger not included." You can go 150 miles an
hour in your Ferrari, Ferrari not included. Okay cool, thanks for
letting me know, NightWatch. - [Ken] What the (ooph) is that? Oh my god, they killed Daftpunk. (explosion blasting) Oh no, they're already dead, sorry. (Ken laughing amusingly) - Don't go there, Ken! Okay? If I hear you make ♪ One more ♪ ♪ One more time ♪ - [Ken] I'm gonna put them
next to Grandma Agnes. ♪ One more time ♪ (Ken laughing amusingly) - I'm gonna send you- ♪ Around the world ♪ - Oh, please do. (laughing amusingly) I wanna go back to Japan. Oh no, you mean Malaysia. - And you're gonna be forced
to listen to "Robot Rock" the entire time. "Open the Apple watch app,
turn on Nightstand Mode, and then insert your charger in. When you slide the Apple
Watch into the NightWatch, Nightstand Mode will
automatically turn on." So, the problem with this is that, well besides the fact that
it's just a dumb magnifier, your Apple Watch is not gonna stay on. There's no tech here, it's
just Apple Watch Mode. (deep rhythmic music) I hate this. It just looks dirty because like every little
bit of dust or anything is now magnified. I mean, okay, I'm looking at it directly, it does make it bigger. - [Matt] You said it made it bigger? I'm gonna need to borrow that
after we're done with it. - How much was this? And if it's more than $19.99, you can just buy a regular alarm clock and be very happy with it. - [Jared] This was $85.
(Jared laughing amusingly) ("Spongebob" music playing) - [Ken] Is that even real glass? - Who chose this item? - It wasn't me. - Um, God chose this item. - Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, that's the
only one who can save you now. Oh wait, I know this one. There's a story behind this item. Before I even open it... Come closer. So, for this item, I was reached out to by a certain person
who shall not be named, who offered to pay me to
say nice things about it. I know. - [Ken] Is this a (ooph) screwdriver? - I did not take Linus' bribe money to be sponsored by lttstore.com. - [Ken] So, you were stupid
enough to do it for free. - Oh (ooph), yeah you're right. Okay, let's take a look
at the LTT Screwdriver! We've got ourselves the Standard
and the Creator Edition. Apparently, people are all screwed up
in the head about this. It is very orange on the inside, we got a piece of paper, and
we've got the Screwdriver. - [Matt] Alright. - Ah, that sounds nice.
(Screwdriver clicking gently) So, you've got yourself your
bit storage on the inside. There are no bits, okay. The bits are somewhere. So, we've got the black
handle with the orange tip and the silver shaft. This thing is not cheap. This is like what? - [Jared] $70. - That's more than I paid
for my electric screwdriver. So, you've got a pretty good selection. You've got some Phillips,
you've got some Torx. You've got a little magnet one,
which actually I like that. I will admit, I don't know
how to review a screwdriver 'cause it's a screwdriver. Oh, you know what I can do though? First of all... (sniffing screwdriver diligently) Cool. Second of all... (Screwdriver falling abruptly) I just had to Linus it. Let's take a look at the Creator Edition. We have... Ooh! There is a white base as
well as the Stealth Model. - It's a PC I have to take apart anyways, so you're just gonna save the work for me. - You're can make me tear apart the... Oh, it's fine. That's fine, that's fine. I'll say it feels nice, and
it also does have all the bits already loaded up in here,
which is very much appreciated. But, this has gotta be pretty
nice to be worth the money. - [Jared] So, I just did the math. - Yeah. - [Jared] It looks like
they're already close to selling over 100,000 of these. - 100,000? - [Jared] 100,000. - That's a lotta screwdrivers! This feels solid and sturdy. But also, as someone who
builds a lot of game PCs, I'll admit I don't really care about
my screwdriver too much. If you're looking for
a high-end screwdriver, I mean obviously this is well made. And if you were in the market,
you can visit lttstore.com. (sighing annoyingly) It's
kinda a lot of money, man. It's kind of a lot of money. So, this comes courtesy of a
future friend of the channel. "Hey guys, it's Alan
from "Card Arena" again. I put in some more random gifts. I hope you enjoy." He also put his Twitter,
which is @CardArenaUSA. There's actually a lotta stuff in here. So, we've got ourselves
an Infurnape V Box. We also have something
that's definitely meant for- - [Ken] Oh, let's go! Okay, okay, you got me. - We got some nice sleeves. Oh- - Let's go! I saw that. Yay. "White Cross." Oh, shoot! (laughing happily) Let's go! Oh dude, this is expensive. What the (ooph)? - They're Hololive cards. I didn't know these even existed. - Let's go! - And importantly, a "Lost
Origin" Elite Trainer Box. So, this is a lotta stuff. - I almost kinda feel bad. This is not cheap. (laughing happily) - So, thank you very much, Alan. Austin, Ken, and the rest of the crew, are now gonna start opening some stuff while we eat some delicious snacks. Look at these dope sleeves. We have enough sleeves
for the rest of our lives. Oh, there we go!
- Oh, whoa, whoa. - Wow. - Our Gold Galarian Articuno
V that is wildly off-center. Okay, I'll take that. Oh, and a hyper rare Lychenroc. See, there we go! Thanks, Alan, for the terrific pulls. That's a sus looking box. Don't damage the table! - [Ken] It's already
damaged with termites. - So, this looks to be a Valve Steam Deck. A way to take all the
good and bad of Steam, and put it in something
that is not pocketable. It doesn't smell like a Steam Deck because it's actually dbrand! So, is this the Killswitch? - [Ken] This is is
Project Killswitch, yes. - Okay, so I have seen this on Twitter, but have not paid any attention. (chill rhythmic music) Thanks, Jared. It's actually a nice kind of sort of grippy
rubber kind of finish. You've got like these kinda
little grips on the side. You have easy access to
your ports and whatnot. "Warning, this is a magnetically
detachable kickstand. Do not use as a handle." So... Oh. - [Ken] And it's keyed
too, so it doesn't rotate. - Oh, it's keyed. - Yeah.
- That's smart. Okay, okay, okay. Oh, that feels terrific. (item banging loudly) - Oh, God. I think the idea is that
instead of, you know, having their bulky case, or
the standard Steam Deck case, you could just throw this in
a bag with the front cover. - Oh! - [Matt] It is its own case. - [Ken] Yes. - But, it doesn't make it any
bigger, I guess I'll say that. Especially you take off the kickstand, you've got a hard actual
shell for the screen. This is actually pretty neat. So, you've got your little
caps for your thumb sticks, which look nice. Although, not like this
is the most original idea. (clearing throat gently) I am probably one of the least
big fans of the Steam Deck 'cause I know while everyone universally
loves this thing basically, I prefer the Aya Neo entirely because the Aya Neo
is actually a reasonable size, and this thing is larger than Ken's ego. (static crackling) Unfortunately, just a few hours after
we recorded this segment of "Mystery Tech," dbrand had to pull the
Killswitch from sale due to some issues with
the magnetic kickstand and some fans inside Steam Decks. But, everything I said still holds. This thing is cool once they, you know, swap it out and it starts
shipping again next year. (chill rhythmic music)