- So much smaller than I expected. Rap man and rap woman. What is rap woman? And what does voices mean? This is the smallest phone in the world. It's right on the box. Or maybe it isn't, I don't care. What I do care about is that it's the most
popular phone in prison. It's called a boss beater because it's designed from the ground up to beat a body orifice scanning chair called, well, the boss. And we're gonna do our
best to find out today if that is actually the case. Which could get a little
dirty, just like our sponsor. - Hetzner, thanks to Hetzner
for sponsoring this video. Hetzner offers high
performance cloud services for an amazing price. With their new US location
in Ashburn in Virginia you can deploy cloud servers in four different locations
and benefit from features like load balancers,
block storage, and more. Use code LTT 22 at the link
below for a 20 bucks off. (upbeat music) - We'll begin by getting
our equipment together. We got our banana for
scale, our phone protectors, melon, a drill. And of course the Zanco Tiny T1. The first thing I get to do is unbox it. This box is a trip. Three day standby time, that's good if you have
to keep it in hiding. You can't just like charge it, right? Nano SIM, Bluetooth 3.0,
got a lot of languages, That's really important. And the voices. Man, woman, child, old,
cartoon, young, Optimus- - [David] Ooh - Duck, robot, Eva, Wall-E,
rap man, and rap woman. (David laughing) - What is rap woman? And what does voices mean? Does it do real time voice disguising? Shut up, it does. (laughter) Oh my God, it's so much
smaller than I expected. Looking at this box, is
the picture actual size? No, not quite. Even in my tiny hands. Got a mic here. This has gotta be for noise canceling. What looks like potentially
another mic hole here and this would've taken
some real engineering, because in order for you to hear anyone that you're actually talking to, the mic has to have a really actually fairly
sophisticated pickup pattern. There's one screw, what
appears to be a speaker grille. Oh my God, it comes with a silicone case. How adorable is that? Now, by this point in the video, you're probably wondering
who the heck Zanco is, and how this came to be. And the product is actually the result of a successful Kickstarter
campaign from back in 2018 that raised 246,000 US dollars. Why? Because they set out with
a very specific goal, and according to our sources they've done a pretty bang up job of it. Let's go ahead and open it up,
so we can take a closer look. I feel like I'm working
on a toy, but it's not. It's a fully functional phone. Ooh, hey, I think it comes
apart from the front. There's your display on a ribbon cable. Is it all LED? - [David] It is. - [Linus] Wow!
- [David] Half-inch all LED. - Your membrane button pad. Oh my God. Okay, there's your speaker
driver right there. There is your tiny
lithium battery, SIM slot. Shielded processor, RAM, and
basically everything else. I can imagine you guys thinking build quality seems pretty rubbish. Why would anybody pay
for this thing at all? And the answer is that Zanco
knows their target market and the Tiny T1 is designed to meet it. Even the chassis material, sure, they could have gone
premium metal in space gray. But there's no point beating the boss if it's just gonna get caught
in the metal detector, right? Another example, micro USB. Yeah, that's what you want. Because it needs to be as
small as humanly possible so that it can be
smuggled into the prison. Because of these qualities,
people not only pay for them, but according to our
contact on the inside, they're worth anywhere from
500 to 1,000 US dollars. (laughing) This or iPhone right? - 100%. I mean, if you're putting it in your butt. - Yeah, enough chit chat though. We gotta turn it on, right? That is a very small screen. Still having trouble there. Just gotta get that on there. I'm just imagining like the giantest dude with this thing now too. Check this out. We got two bars, four bars. This is Jake's phone actually. So I'm not gonna check
his text, but maybe Jake. Hey Jake, are you in earshot? Or like, I can text him. (phone clatters) Let's figure out how the- Is that the default ring tone? A gunshot. (laughing) You get one line of text per scroll. 18 unread message. Seven characters max. (gunshot ringtone) Are you texting him right now? (gunshot sound effect) (laughter) Inbox lttstore.com. Oh, okay, so that's from Colin then. It looks even funnier in your hands. - I can't tell if I'm
being memed right now. - No, no, you're not. Oh my God, you're like changing options. Cancel, done, okay. - Dude they're all voicemail ones. Why don't I get these on my phone? That's weird. - It's using 40% of its screen to tell me I'm looking at the message. I just wanna read the message. I think I've kind of figured out the interface at this point
though, we've got a D-pad here. This goes back and this goes forward. So I'm in the inbox now. Sent messages, I can go back here. Message, and now I can scroll through all my different things, check that out. We got the bit dialer. You know what, I'm not actually
sure if this is a D-pad. This might just be an up and down rocker. A silent mode is super important. Our source told us that
there have been instances of these being found and confiscated because they rang at an inopportune time or even because they vibrated the individual's self in transport. Magic voice. Oh, here we go, here we go! Oh, this is this voice changer thing. So it's on none right now. That's fine, we'll start normal. It's gotta be time to make a call. - [Automated Voice] Seven, seven, eight. - What? There's no way you want your phone going six, zero, four. Ah, here we go. Let's play with some ring tones. (ring tone playing) I'm liking that, it's got kind of like an '80s action movie kind of vibe. - [David] Is there any vibration? - Oh yeah. (ringtone music playing) These are amazing. (phone ringing) Oh, that's so boring! I definitely like the last one. (ringtone song playing) Feel like I'm in an action movie. (object clatters) (gunshot sound) Yeah, it's gonna have to be that. I feel so dainty. I feel like a dainty lady. Wow, am I on speaker? Hello? No, it's not. Wow, I really nailed the
alignment on the speaker there. Actually, I guess it's kind of easy when the thing basically
like fits inside your ear. (voice modulated) Colin, you can put it in your ear. I am now next level. Next level Bluetooth earpiece douche bag. I got the whole phone in my ear. - [David] I think you have
the voice changer on already. - Oh, I have the voice changer on Oh crap. Oh, I'm on duck mode. - [David] There you go. - How's my voice quality now? - [David] It's significantly more Linus. It's a little quieter,
definitely a little quieter. - Little quieter, okay, cool, okay. Got your phone book, your call history. You can message, mute, volume
and, oh yeah, magic voice. Well, you guys already
heard duck by accident, but let's go ahead and try some more. - [David] Optimus, yeah! - Okay. I would like to order a
strike on the Decepticons and a large pepperoni pizza. - I think there are Decepticons
that do sound like this but it is not Optimus. - No, Okay. Oh, we haven't even shown
your voice quality yet. Okay, I'm gonna put it
right next to my mic. Okay, Colin, tell me a little story. - I'll tell you a little story about this man who once dropped everything he got his hands on- - All right, all right,
that's enough of that story. Not bad though, right? Like it's totally usable. Hey Colin, you whippersnapper or am I sounding a little
older than I used to? You are now receiving your instructions from the robot known as Wall-E. There's not much variation. It's either you get like
a high-pitched distortion or a low-pitched distortion. And then they called it
like three different things. Okay, last one, last one. Collin, Do I sound like a rap woman? Whatever a rap woman would be. - [Colin] Ironically, you
sound pretty much the same. - Thank you for that. This is my new cellular telephone. It's Linus sized. - What? - Hi, Colin. - Oh, hello. (laughs) - No, it's for putting in your butt. - No, it's not. - [David] Yeah, it is. - It really is. - For like prison people? - Yeah. - Why do we have that? - So that we can see how
well it fits in your butt and how good the reception
is from your butt. - You have fun. - All right, hanging up. See you later. Call ended. I can't believe we
haven't already done this but here's a short circuit
banana for scale, LTT store.com. Wait, we haven't sent a text message yet. Now in prisons where have a roommate, it is against prison code,
according to our contact to snitch on someone
else for having a phone. But there still might be
reasons that you may wish to communicate a little
bit more discreetly. So let's go ahead. Oh, it's T-9. Oh, blast from the past. Okay, it's not predictive T-9 mode. Okay, I'm trying to text you Colin. - [Colin] Okay. - Hi Colin. One another interesting fact, people will sneak items like this but not this into prisons all the time. During the first 30 days
at least we know this about the Canadian penal system you can get what's called a pen pack containing comfort items in the first 30 days
of your incarceration. They've seen everything from phones inside bigger items like stereos. There was even to modified PS three inside a PlayStation one case
because you're not allowed to have an internet connected console but a not internet
connected console is okay. Smart TVs will have
their USB ports disabled for example, because
inmates will often have USBs with a bunch of porn on them to watch. And apparently that's not okay in prison. I mean, why would you? - You gotta use your imagination. - We already know the tiny
T1 contains so little metal that a metal detector wouldn't
be able to pick it up. But there are other ways that
officials can catch devices like this during screening,
including with an EMF meter. So what we're going to
do is we're gonna check the electromagnetic
radiation of a regular phone the Zanco T1, and then the
Zanco T1 embedded in the bowels of a cantaloupe. We could have done this another
way, but I chickened out. And frankly, I don't think
anyone needs to experience that. Measuring RF in a space like
this is not the easiest thing. We have so much freaking
interference running around here. So we built ourselves
a junky Faraday cage. We are grounded. We're able to roll this thing over and we're gonna do all
of our tests inside this. So it's gonna sit here. And then what was the idea
to just put it in there? - [David] To turn on and turn
it to like Watts per meter or the amp setting there? (phone ringing) - Oh, someone's calling Jake. Hi, this is Jake's receptionist. All right, so we're
enclosed in grounded metal. Jake's on the butt phone,
you should get this. - Oh my God. I didn't just inhale helium, I think it's just a piece of shit. - Oh, it might have a voice effect on. - Oh wait, apparently this phone has like voice effect things. Anyways, what's up? - 1.8 Watts per meter
when it's broadcasting and then it kind of takes a
break and switches radios. About 500 milli watts per meter. So between 500 milli watts
and 1200 milli watts. - Let's try the Zanco - 1.9 mil micro watts per meters square. - Okay, so basically nothing. - Yeah, I don't think
this is the best LED cage. I made it about 20 minutes. - But still we can see
there's a market difference between a normal phone- - Yeah, its still ringing. - It has only two bars
compared to four though. So it's definitely doing something. And we can see that
there's a huge difference between it sitting in here with this and with a normal phone. So it's already pretty negligible. - So then we need to know
if it drops to like zero, if we put it in a melon. (drilling) - It smells good. It's a good one. But before we insert our tiny T1 into our artificial body cavity here, I wanna talk safety and best practices. Obviously the last thing you
want is for your tiny T1, which you spent way too much money on, it's only $47 at retail,
to get confiscated. You're gonna have to hide your charger and your charging cable, but
that's probably manageable but you especially
wanna hide your tiny T1. And when it's time to do
that, one of the best ways to do it is to cover it,
if you know what I mean. So this is a condominium,
condom for short. The phone lives in there, sorry. This is to keep your SIM card clean. Just need to- - [David] body cavity
looks a little small. - Yeah, it's a tight body cavity. - [Colin] You can just ream it out with the drill a little bit more. Give it a little the spiral. (drilling) - Colin, go ahead and gimme a call. He's calling, get it. (laughs) (phone ringing) - Well you better hope that
you don't receive a phone call while you're going through the check-in. That's a thing we did. We've officially reached a new low. Shark jumping is way in
the rear view mirror. My assistant or my ass, as I call it. - Oh, don't. 2.3 milli watts per meter squared. And it's like bouncing up to yeah, it's well around 3, 2, 3. And now it's in micro Watts. So it's 0.0011 micro watts. And then it goes and it tries to connect to the network again, I'm
assuming it's lost reception. So it's saving battery. - We would strongly recommend
that if you're trying to sneak it anywhere while it
is is more difficult to detect than a fully featured modern smartphone, it would be best to put
it in airplane mode. - Yeah, I mean you wouldn't
want to try and answer the call - Because that would be a
pretty (beeps) experience. Just like this (beeps)
segue to our sponsor. Devolutions. Devolutions offers productivity
and security solutions to IT professionals. With Devolutions, you can
centralize all remote connections and credentials on a single
platform that's securely shared with your entire team. Their remote desktop
manager is essentially a Swiss army knife for remote access. And evolutions server is a
full featured shared account and credential management solution with builtin privileged access components. Fun fact, Devolutions also
has its own comic strip called Sysadminotaur,
about life in the IT world and it's available on their website. So find out why demos has a
ridiculously loyal customer base of world class IT pros
with decades of experience who rave about their solutions and support by starting a free trial today by visiting devolutions.net
or at the link down below - [David] You can have your butler answer. - You can have your butler answer. (laughs) If you guys enjoyed this
but you don't need a phone that fits in your body cavities, maybe check out our
video on the fair phone. It's a little more practical and kind of a more sustainable
approach to phone design.