- A few years ago, we took a look at the
worst, new PC you could get, an HP All-in-One that was
slow, ugly, and terrible. Fast forward to 2021, and they upgraded it with a flippy webcam, and
fixed none of the other issues, but I'm happy to say that our hopes and prayers have finally been answered, because.... (upbeat quirky music) There's an all-new model. Does it fix things? I sure hope so! Now, when I first started
working on this video, this was 500 bucks, a
very reasonable upgrade. Then I went to Best Buy,
and actually purchased it, it was $600, which makes
it little bit more sus, but let's take a look to see. It's 2023, it's finally the year that our terrible PC
dreams have been replaced with nightmares, because I'm
tired of buying these things. I mean, sorry, if it's
finally gotten better! Yaayy! So the thing is, I understand why people
buy All-in-Ones, right? If you're buying a PC, you generally have a couple of options. You can get yourself a desktop, which is going to always give
you more power for the money. The problem though is that not everyone wants
to have a big tower, even a small tower, that they need to hide underneath their desk,
or whatever the case is. An All-in-One, even with this, even though, like, the spec is terrible, it's a nice-looking system. You could easily put this somewhere. I mean, I've seen these in,
like, restaurants, and stuff to run DoorDash, or whatever. Like, the idea is solid, but I'm hopeful that HP
have heard my prayers, and have... (euphoric music) Look, black now. Oh. First off, we have our accessories, which I'm sure are going to be wonderful. Oh, are you? It's not accessory, it's power cable. I'm not gonna say this is strike one, this is strike, like, 0.5. Why do desktops need
laptop power supplies? I just, put your, could you just not just, like, do that? To give HP some credit, 'cause I feel like I'm
being a little mean today, this foam was incredibly nice. I can do it. (quirky jazz music) I can take a nap like this. We do have what looks to
be our keyboard, and mouse. I guess this is technically
one of the advantages of buying a system like this is that you do get everything you need. You've obviously got the display, you've got your mouse, and keyboard, so it is quite literally plug and play. It's wired.
(Austin chuckles) - It definitely needs, like, an updated version of that keyboard, because they have made that keyboard for the past 30 years, and
haven't changed a thing on it. - No, no, no, it's got the newer Windows. See, it's the square Windows key, and not, like, you know, the, remember when the Windows
logo went from being this to being like this, and everyone was like,
"Whoa, graphic design"? It's really the riveting content you've come to subscribe
to the channel for, I know. It's still really light. It is still really, really light. So this, my friends, is
the answer to our prayers. - [Matt] Are you really
praying for this thing? (Austin chuckles) - I'm praying to not have
to look at it anymore. (Austin chuckles) - You say that, yet you know next year when this comes out again,
we're first in line, baby! - I've already pre-ordered the 2024 model. - [Josh] Oh, God. - So...
- Ahh. - It looks, what the hell
happened to the front? - Yeah.
- Oh. - I think it'll come out, right? (upbeat rock music) Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's fine, okay. Mild panic attack that our
screen was massively scratched. There is a USB port, and
an AUX jack on the side. That was not there before.
- Oh. - So we're getting pretty, oh, they took one off the back. Oh. - So they just moved it?
- They just moved it. I guess that's an upgrade! All right, let's put these side by side. Let's see what we got. So they didn't really change anything. (Austin chuckles) It still has four USB ports, except they just moved one
of the USBs to the side. They removed the headphone
jack, and moved it to the side, but it's got a gigabit ethernet, and HDMI. Does it still have the poppy webcam thing? (upbeat hip-hop music) There we, oh. (webcam clicks) - [Matt] That sounds incredibly cheap. - The biggest difference on
the outside, besides the color, is the fact that this is now
23.8 inches as opposed to 21.5. It's a whole 2.3 inches larger. - [Josh] That can be the difference, man. - Could be quite literally a tripling of, I mean, a significant difference in size. (Austin clears throat) - [Matt] I'm enjoying
this Best Buy listing, because it says, "Total
number of USB ports, four. Total number of USB 2.0 ports, two. Total number of USB 3.0 ports, three." - That's just not true.
- Correct. - Two USB 2.0, one USB 3.0,
and then a second USB 3.0. - [Josh] These thoughts, and prayers are going really well so far, Austin.
- Well, I came into this with a lot of enthusiasm, because look, I've done
videos on these before, and the problem with this, and its earlier version
was the horrible specs. This thing will take 10
seconds to load youtube.com. This should be a lot faster. It's got Ryzen! It's got Radeon graphics, do you see? It's got their brand, it's just Radeon. Don't worry, don't ask questions about what kind of Radeon. It's a Radeon, and that's all you need. A few months ago I tried Huel,
and was pleasantly surprised. So when they reached
out to sponsor a video, it was an absolute no-brainer. Look, sometimes you're on the go, and you need to get something to eat. However, the options are
usually not going to be healthy, and certainly not going to be cheap, which is where Huel
Black Edition comes in. Not only is this quick
to make, but importantly, it is plant-based, and
nutritionally complete. Using Huel's convenient shaker, all it takes is some water,
and a few seconds of shaking. So there are a number
of different flavors, including unflavored,
which is not a flavor. This is the banana, which... (Austin sniffs bag) It's, like, subtle banana, but it's, like, I whisper the word banana carefully in your ear.
- Banana. - At an unfortunately
regular basis, I skip meals, because I'm busy, and I
just don't get around to it, or what's even worse, I'll eat something which
is truly terrible for me. But this is much easier. (bright upbeat music) Mm! You know what? That's very banana-y,
but in a really good way. If you'd like to experience the
nutritionally complete life, definitely be sure to go check out Huel at the link in the description, and huge thank you to Huel
for sponsoring this video. This has a Ryzen 3 3250U. Now, that's a few generations behind, but Ryzen is better than Celeron. I can tell you without
any shadow of a doubt. - I wasn't familiar with the Ryzen 3 3250U.
- It's a good processor, don't worry about it. It's better. - It is a also dual core! I didn't even know they
made dual core Ryzen! (upbeat quirky music) - They do. - It says here that U
- It's hyper threading. - in the 3250U stands for unusable. (Austin chuckles) - Yes, it still might be dual core, but two Ryzen cores are so much
better than what's in that. Like, I guarantee you this
thing will run rings around it. - I'm reading-
- Ooh! - All good.
- That's bright. Doesn't actually have good viewing angles, but when you're looking at it straight on, that actually is pretty bright. - [Computer Assistant] Turn on narrator by pressing Windows + Control. - Not bad speakers. Now I'm gonna plug this in via ethernet. I'm gonna give it the best possible shot of not being terrible. I will say though, immediately just in the Windows set up,
this is so much faster. You know what's funny? I actually kind of think
that this looks cheaper. I actually think the white looks clean, and, like, kind of modern. The black already kind of looks a little, (plastic scratches) like, it's just the
cheapy, cheapy plastic. I don't like that our
wheel is dropping frames. It's usually not a good sign. - Okay.
- Look, it's Windows set up, okay? Let's not get too impatient. (upbeat hip-hop music) It'll be done any minute now. Oh! "Do you wanna use your face to sign in?" Okay! Let's do it, let's do it. Wow! Look at the quality of that webcam. Wow! That's so many qualities. I'm just gonna get close. Oh, oh.
- Oh.  It didn't ask you,
like, to turn your head, or any, that was... (Austin chuckles) - It didn't even bother, it was just like, (Josh laughs) "We good, just go." So after giving our system a little while to do some updates, download some games, let's take a closer look. The first test is Cinebench. Now, I'm not gonna get into a bunch of benchmarks,
or anything like that. The most important thing is
just to have a little bit of a frame of reference for how performant this
is compared to this. Again, keep in mind this is about $400. This one was $500. I bought it for $600, now
it's on sale for like $530, so $500, $600, okay? So just keep that in mind. First thing with
Cinebench, we have a score of 679 for single core,
1793 for multi-core. I'll just mention I've run
this twice on this system. It took 45 minutes to run the first time, and it is, well, this did two loops, and this is still not
done with the first one. But what's interesting about this is that this is still only a
dual-core Ryzen processor. One of my biggest questions here, and we're gonna play some
games, and do some silly stuff, but one of my biggest
questions with this is, does the extra performance
make it powerful enough to be used for regular use, or is it just still going to be too slow? Because being three times faster than the world's crappiest
PC is not exactly something to be all that proud of when my smartphone is
probably more powerful than either of these.
(Austin chuckles) - [Matt] Combined. - Yeah, it's not good, it's not good. I would love to show you
some crispy HD gaming capture from this device, however, I'm gonna leave
every little, tiny bit of computing performance
for playing the game, and not trying to record it, so just imagine it looking good. You just have to stare at the screen. So I'm gonna start out with "CS:GO", a game which is very, very easy to run. I think we can get 30 FPS. I don't think that's unreasonable. Uh-oh. I see nine FPS right now. (bright bouncy music) - Cool! - Oh, what the, why am I at 18 FPS? I'm in medium settings! I can't play in medium? - [Matt] Your teammates
really like you right now. - I'm not in the game yet, it's fine. I think I changed it fast enough, right? - No.
- Did I just crash it? - [Matt] You just crashed it. - I was just trying to say nice things! I was trying to... (Matt laughs) - How is it?
- What? - HP, stop doing this to me! Look, I understand that this
is not a gaming computer. I get that. People are not buying
this to be a gaming PC, but like, I'm not asking a lot. Do you remember when
Jay and I did that video where we got, it was like
an old, single-core system, and we got "CS:GO" running? It was, like, from,
like, 2006, or something. Like, this is a very easy game to play. (screen swoops) Oh, my God, is it working? I will be shocked if "CS:GO" doesn't run, and "Forza" does. - [Matt] We've been waiting here for about 19 minutes, and we are at 1%! Austin? - Is it finally done? - [Matt] It's ready! It's ready! - This is...
(Austin chuckles) I, what?
(Austin chuckles) - [Matt] This is giving
me '90s flashbacks. - Okay, okay, we're gonna
stop, we're gonna stop. I should have done "Minesweeper". I think it would be able
to load "Minesweeper", and "Solitaire". I think that's about the extent of the gaming I can
pull off on this thing. I'm gonna turn settings down to the basic, simple, absolute lowest. (bright cheerful music) Oh! 27 FPS! 27 FPS! 27 FPS! So this looks like a PS2 game now. Who should buy this (censored), man? - [Matt] You! You've bought not one, not two, but somewhere around here is a third one that you have bought. - So one of the big
things I wanna learn here, how is this to actually use? This is unusably slow, but with a Ryzen 3, I bet you can, like, watch 4K YouTube, open
up a couple tabs at once. - [Matt] But this is a 1080 screen. Why would you do that? - Hey Matt, have you
ever heard of bitrate? - No.
- More is better. - Oh.
- Okay. Let's see if 1080p wants to play back. Hello, my friends, and welcome to This Is. CES, no problem. Let's try to crank it up to 4K. Some wackiness. No problem. This gets a huge thumbs up on that front, and because it does have HDMI, you could theoretically plug
this into an external monitor if you wanted to do a dual-screen setup. Now for context on how much faster this is for regular use, 'cause again, I don't want this to be, like, a video where I'm just, like,
clowning on this thing for being too slow to
play games, or something. We've tried the game on this. You can check out that video. It struggled to play,
like, "Crysis" from 2007. So I'm gonna load up the channel on both these systems side by side, and you can see how much
faster, or not, it is, okay? Ready? Three, two, one. (keyboard taps) Done-ish. We're back at it again. Okay? And? A PS5 in an actual car on a, done! That's a big difference, right? And I think that's actually probably one of the best demos of the difference between these two systems is that this actually is usably usable. Like, it's not horrifically slow. Now, I will say though, if we ignore this for a moment, because we all know this is literally the
worst new PC you can buy. Like, let's just close this up. We don't have to look at this anymore. I'm still struggling a little
bit with who this is for. If you bought a desktop, and
you paired it with a display, you're gonna get more performance. If you buy a laptop, and
pair it with a display, you're gonna get more performance. If this was 400 bucks, I'd be like, "I kind of get it." At $600, or even $500, or $530, it's not a good value, but I would say it is at least usable. At least it is, like, the bare
minimum to consider buying, like, an actual Windows PC. (broadcast bleeps) HP, if you made it to
this point in the video, thank you very much. Just come in close. Can you-
- How close? - Can you just literally make the, okay, that's a little too close. - Uh-oh.
- Can you literally, just make this PC, and just gimme like, oh, I don't know, a slightly better chip? Give me like a quad core Ryzen. That's it! This thing is totally fine other than the abysmally slow chip. I mean, I think you should
make the stand black to match the system, but that's fine! That's fine, right? That's all this needs is a
little bit more performance, because this is still not enough. It's...
(Austin sighs) Oh, also USB-C. That'd be great. Can I, like, go make a video
on, like, a good PC again? Like, I miss, is there, like, a 4090 around here, or something? (mischievous music)