- Hey guys, this is Austin! And this is the Google
Stadia Founder's Edition. So, Google were awesome
enough to sponsor this video, so I can take a look at what should be the best cloud gaming service yet. So at first I thought that they
had custom-printed the box, but actually I just think
someone wrote my name on it and they just have really,
really good handwriting. Like, I gotta respect that. So there are a bunch of
different versions of Stadia, but this is the brand-new
Founder's Edition, which I believe is sold out right now. But inside, we get pretty much everything we need to get up and running and starting with the controller itself. Now even though the Founder's
Edition is sold out, you can still buy the Premier Edition, which is pretty much the same but with a white controller
and no Buddy Pass. And you can also buy controllers outside of the bundle for $69 each, and they come in white, black, and a greenish color called "Wasabi." So it's kind of like a mix between like an X-box and like a PS4 controller. What I like is the
actual feel in the hand. Like, the grip are a little bit longer than on a standard controller. But, at least for my hands,
that fits pretty well. Sticks feel good. Nice little bit of clickiness. I feel like I'd like a
little bit more tension on the triggers. But generally speaking,
it actually feels like a pretty premium controller. Then you might be wondering why exactly I'm unboxing a controller as
well as a Chromecast Ultra. I mean, this doesn't
look like a game console. However, through the
power of cloud gaming, it actually can be. So with Google Stadia,
essentially the game itself is actually running on a server, who knows how many miles away, and is being streamed to your device. But also it'll work on the
Chrome browser on your computer, it'll work on some phones
and tablets and stuff. Essentially, pretty
much as long as you have a good internet connection, theoretically you should
be able to play games pretty much anywhere you are. This is a little side note, but you should definitely
use the power adapter that comes in the box. So while some Chromecasts,
like the normal versions, you can power off of the
USB port from your TV, the difference here is
that this power adapter has an ethernet jack. And when it comes to cloud gaming, while you can use WiFi, and at the very least you should be using five gigahertz WiFi. But realistically, if you
can plug it into ethernet, you're gonna get a
smoother, better experience. Now I've used a lot of cloud
gaming services over the years. And most of the early
ones were barely usable. These days there are a couple
which have gotten better. But none of them have the full
might of Google behind it. So setup process should
be pretty straightforward, especially if you already
have a Chromecast. So to start off with, I'm using a Pixel 4, because this is one of the phones which is supported to stream. I need to just unlock my
invite code with Stadia, which I have somewhere. I now have the name "Austin" on Stadia. So on my phone with Stadia Pro I've been able to unlock a couple of games that are included, including "Destiny" as well as "Samurai Showdown." So the next step is to
get my Chromecast up, as well as the controller. Oh excellent, okay. "Do you want to set up
your Stadia controller?" Sweet! So it already sees that
I have a controller. Yes, I would love to do that. So now I'm going to connect
the controller to the WiFi. The idea is that this controller, as opposed to being directly
connected to the device, can be connected to my WiFi, which means that say I'm
playing on the Chromecast and I want to switch over
to say, playing on my phone. I don't have to switch devices, because this isn't
connected to my actual phone or at my actual Chromecast. It's connected to the cloud which means that everything should just work. Theoretically at least. Let's see if it actually does. All right. So if I press Left, X Y, all right wait. Uh-hum. If I can press Left, X, X, B, like it says on the screen, I'll be fine. (laughs) It looked like a Y, okay? It looked like a Y. Yes, okay, cool. Sweet, okay. So we're done with the phone for now, until we're actually
ready to play some games. Now let's jump into my
account and see what happens. What is, what does Stadia's
interface look like? It looks like that! Okay, cool! So we have My Games, which is just the two
games that are included. But if I want, I can
also go to the mobile app and I can actually download and buy more. Oh yeah, so they have quite a few games. So, they also have
pretty decent discounts. So if I want to play like "Mortal Kombat," it's $20 off. 30 bucks off "Assassin's Creed." "Metro Exodus" for 20. That's actually not bad. So, coming next year there
will be a Stadia Base version, and that will have no monthly subscription and you'll just buy the
games as you want them. Now, you are limited to
1080p streaming there. However for a lot of people, especially if you're
playing like on your phone or on computer or something, 1080p is probably going
to be totally fine. No install, which is nice, because literally all it's doing right now is booting up the game
on a server somewhere and then streaming it to me. Going into this, my biggest
question is absolutely, what is the latency? Now when you're playing on a server that is hundreds of
miles away potentially, there's obviously going
to be some kind of lag. However, Stadia's actually
pretty impressive. So, as far as I can tell, I mean this feels pretty
similar to playing like on a standard console. Obviously, we have really
good internet here. That's definitely going to make things a little bit biased. But as far as I'm concerned, in this sort of best case scenario, it feels incredibly smooth. Like, no dropped frames, no major sort of, any issues with the picture quality. And latency is not bad. So, you're gonna want a
minimum of 10 megabit internet to have a solid 720p feed. And if you want to go full 4K,
like I'm playing right now, you do wanna aim for at least 35 megabits. Which is a lot, but it's
also not totally insane. Especially considering
the quality, really. I mean like, I can get like up close with it and yeah, I mean maybe here I can see a little bit of compression, but realistically it just looks like I'm playing on a console. This is really, really good. And the picture quality
I'm surprised with. Now, I'm not sure if this is going to necessarily match a
high-end PC running at 4K. Realistically, it's probably not quite that same level of fidelity. But, considering that we're playing a game streaming over the
internet, it is not bad. I mean, this is running on Chromecast. We don't have a giant, huge
tower underneath the TV. It's literally a Chromecast Ultra and that's how we're playing
"Destiny 2" right now. So the next thing I'm going
to try is playing Stadia using a standard computer running Chrome. So theoretically, it should
be pretty straightforward. You just need to go to stadia.google.com and it should theoretically just work. Yeah, so we see "Destiny." The wireless function is coming soon. And that is a little bit
of a downside with Stadia, in that there are a lot of cool features that are coming, but
they're not quite out yet. So, let me plug this guy in. Now there are some upsides to this. So, if you are playing on PC, you do get access to
using other controllers, you could use a mouse and keyboard, you can plug in like an X-box
controller or something. But for right now, I'm going to plug my Stadia controller in via USB. My first impressions are pretty solid. I do notice a little bit more latency. I think the difference
between being plugged in, wired versus wireless,
does make a difference. Image quality is also not quite as good. We're definitely streaming
at 1080p as opposed to 4K. All right, you know what? I will say the controls feel a
little bit squishy right now. It's not bad. It's certainly playable, but this is not as smooth an
experience as I would like. It's subtle, and I think
it's really only gonna be noticeable if you do
a lot of native gaming on like a proper console or PC. Like, it's not bad, but
it's not quite as seamless as it was using the Chromecast Ultra, which does make sense. I get why they sort of
ship this as a bundle. Now Stadia also work on the
Pixel 2, 3, 3a, 4 right now, as long as they're running Android 10 with more phones to come soon. However, the way to get
the controller to work isn't necessarily the most seamless. Okay. You just have to plug it via USB. Now to be fair, if you do
wanna use another controller, say like a PS4 or X-box controller, you can connect them via Bluetooth. But right now, I'm gonna play like this. Huh, you know what? This feels pretty much exactly the same as playing on my laptop. So obviously, you got a smaller screen, which means that the image quality, while it already looked decent before, actually looks a little bit better now, because you've got just such
a small display to work with. And the latency's pretty
much exactly the same. I'm pretty convinced that the difference between the laptop and the
Pixel versus the Chromecast, is purely down to wired versus wireless. This is not the way to play the game. You should definitely use
a Bluetooth controller or ideally, fairly shortly, when the Stadia controller
works wirelessly, it won't be an issue. But this is goofy, I think some might say. When you're thinking in
a more mobile context, Stadia's actually really interesting. Now of course, mobile games
are getting better and better, but right now, absolutely
nothing can touch the graphics and the gameplay of these full console and PC
titles that Stadia provides. Now is it perfect right now? Absolutely not. Not only do you have
do deal with the cable if you want to use the Stadia controller, but it only supports WiFi right now, so you can't use 4G or 5G, which will hopefully
make things much better. But realistically what you're getting here is an experience which,
just like on the computer and it's pretty similar
to on the TV, feels good. It feels snappy. It's not 100% as smooth as playing like on a high-end PC, but
it's certainly playable. And especially on a smaller screen, it actually feels totally fine. Oh oh, nope no, go away, go away, go away. What is that? I'm gonna say, that I am more impressed with Google Stadia than I thought I'd be. I've tried a lot of cloud gaming services and there's no doubt that
this is the best one yet. Now it is certainly not perfect. It's a 1.0 version and
there are a lot of features which they are working on. But the most important thing
here is the core gameplay and the actual latency in
the experience that you get. And everything I've seen
here seems to indicate that they've got the fundamentals down. Now, once they get the
wireless controller working across all of the devices, once they get more device support, I think it's going to
be really impressive. But as of right now, I see the potential, and I think that's the main thing that my, sort of, takeaway of Stadia is. If you guys are interested, you can definitely feel free to check out the Stadia Premier bundle, which is linked in the description. So obviously, you don't
need all this stuff. Theoretically, you could just wait for the Stadia Base to come out next year and you'll be able to
play everything for free, assuming you buy the games. You can play the subscription for free. But if you want the full experience, if you want the Chromecast Ultra, if you want the controller, this is definitely the way to get it.