Every hour of every day, a thin cosmic rain
of charged particles collides with the earth’s atmosphere, some of which eventually reaches
the surface. Until recently, observing and measuring cosmic
radiation was the domain of physicists in fancy laboratories. But now, thanks to a group of scientists at
MIT and the National Centre for Nuclear Research in Warsaw, even a dork in the garage like
me can be a citizen particle physicist. Hey I’m Grady and this is Practical Engineering. Today we’re building a Muon Detector. This video was sponsored by XOD - more on
that later. Behold the CosmicWatch Desktop Muon Detector
- or at least the pieces of one. This project was designed as an education
tool for a “novice high school student,” so I’m a little bit outside of my skill
level. But, who am I to deny you the incongruity
a civil engineer soldering tiny components to a circuit board while talking about cosmic
radiation? Before we get into the engineering behind
the device, first we need to know a little bit about cosmic rays (or at least our current
understanding of them, because there is still a lot of mystery behind their origin). Spread throughout our galaxy, and indeed the
entire universe, are stars. On occasion, those stars explode creating
supernovae, and when they do, they eject a tremendous amount of interstellar material,
also known as star stuff. This material is traveling so quickly that
it generates a shock wave of superheated plasma. These shockwaves are believed to be the origin
of most of the universe’s comic rays. The superheated plasma accelerates the particles
to unimaginable speeds, and some eventually reach the earth. When they slam into the earth’s atmosphere,
they produce a slew of secondary particles with crazy names like pions and kaons that
eventually decay into muons that can survive the trip through the atmosphere and even penetrate
into the earth’s crust. Scientists observe and measure muons and other
cosmic radiation to learn more about the universe with fantastically complex and expensive equipment,
but this detector opens that door to any student or citizen with a soldering iron and a good
magnifying glass. As fun as it is to dive into particle physics,
the coolest part of the CosmicWatch project is the engineering. The device uses interesting components and
clever circuity to make it possible to detect and count these cosmic rays. And it all starts with the scintillator, a
piece of plastic with a very special ability to absorb the energy of a radiation particle
and re-emit that energy as light. As a muon passes through the scintillator,
a burst of light is created. It’s not enough to see with the naked eye,
but it can be detected by the attached photomultiplier, which is essentially a super-sensitive solar
panel capable of measuring even just a single photon. The photomultiplier converts the burst of
light from the scintillator into an electric signal. But, this signal is extremely short - less
than a microsecond - which is hard to detect. The CosmicWatch uses an Arduino to measure
the signal, but it can only take a measurement about once every 6 microseconds. You can see how easy it would be for the arduino
to miss the Muon pulses. So the CosmicWatch includes a peak detector
circuit to amplify and stretch out the signal so that it can be detected by the arduino. This shot from the oscilloscope shows the
output from the peak detector in yellow. If I zoom in on the time scale, you can see
how short the actual pulse from the photomultiplier was. Once the arduino detects a pulse, it sends
a signal to this LED to let you know. The arduino can count the amplitude and number
of pulses to measure the average detection rate, it can record each pulse on a memory
card, and it can even send the data over USB to your computer. I built two detectors, which makes it possible
to measure the direction of a particle and helps eliminate false triggers from other
types of radiation. When operated in coincidence, a muon is only
recorded if it was detected by both devices at the same time. In this shot, the bottom detector is the slave
which only blinks if it detects a muon at the same time as the master above. Now that the detectors are assembled and working,
it’s time to do some science, and there is a lot of science that can be done here. This is such a great educational tool, because
the measurements are so simple. Most of the experiments you can do are really
asking the same question: does this particular parameter affect the rate and or intensity
of cosmic rays detected? Spencer published some very cool experiments
he used to test out the detector, including how the rate changes at ground level vs. down
in a mine and how much the detection rate increases during a flight on an airline. But, you know how much I like to make cool
graphs, so I also designed a few of my own experiments to test out. First I know that Muon formation happens in
the atmosphere, and I also know that some atmospheric properties like temperature and
stability change through the course of the day. So I hypothesized that there might be a measurable
difference in muon detection between day and night. To test this out, I left the detectors running
in the same spot for 24 hours. I started the count at 6:30am when I left
for work and reset at 8:00pm to leave it overnight. The rates and measured intensities were almost
identical, suggesting that, if there is a difference in detection rate between day and
night, it is only a small effect. The null hypothesis prevails. Next I wanted to test how the direction affected
the detection rate. You can leave these detectors blinking on
your desk, but it’s still hard to imagine the cosmic rays passing through your personal
space if you don’t know what direction they’re coming from. My guess was that most would come from directly
overhead because it’s the most direct path through the atmosphere. I set up the detectors one on top of each
other for a day, then side by side for a second day. My results agreed with Spencer’s that the
detection rate from side to side was about half of that from straight up. This chart shows the probability that a muon
would exceed a certain amplitude, and you can see that the measurements from the horizon
had more low-energy detections than from straight overhead. My last experiment, obviously, needed to be
related to concrete because I said I was going to keep making videos about concrete and then
made a muon detector instead. My hypothesis was that layers of concrete
would provide some shielding and attenuate the detection rate. So, I left the detectors in coincidence mode
running in my car and parked on a different level of the parking garage at work for three
days. Measuring only the particles coming from straight
up, there was a small but obvious reduction in the detection rate for each layer of concrete
in the parking garage above my car. I love this project because it takes something
that is not just invisible, but maybe unknown to most people, and makes it so tangible and
approachable. If you’re an educator, this is an awesome
tool for exploring the scientific method because the experimental design is fairly simple,
the data collection is easy, and the subject matter is fascinating. Huge thanks to Spencer and the other folks
associated with CosmicWatch who developed this awesome device and helped me with this
video. Check out the link to their website in the
description. Thank you for watching, and let me know what
you think! Getting started in electronics can be intimidating
at first. If you’re using microcontroller boards in
your projects like the Arduino in the Muon Detector, you not only have to learn about
circuits but also about writing code. With XOD, you don’t need to be a programmer
to use a microcontroller. With its visual programming language and well-written
tutorials, you can get started on awesome projects with almost no learning curve. Building programs visually with nodes makes
controlling your electronics projects fun. XOD is open source, and best of all, it’s
completely free. To get started, go to XOD.io or just click
the link in the description below. Thank you for watching and let me know what
you think!