Every dry season between July and October, it 
gets hazy across the countries of Southeast Asia. Haze is air pollution made up of soot 
particles, carbon dioxide and other good stuff. The haze has long irritated and puzzled 
residents in the region. Irritated,   because it is thick and choking to breathe in. Puzzled, because ending the various causes of   the haze from across borders has 
been exceptionally challenging. In this video, we talk about Southeast 
Asia's long-running struggle with haze. ## Beginnings
There have been recorded incidents of haze in Singapore and other Southeast 
Asian countries since the 1960s. Notably in 1961, a plane flying into 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia missed the city   and had to land in Singapore because the 
pilots could not see through the haze. But it was not until October 1972 that 
the haze got serious enough to become a   story. Visibility in Singapore got to as 
low as 1 meter. Motorists had to turn on   their lights on in the middle of 
the day. Singaporeans living in   high rises reported "white smoke" 
floating in through their windows. At the start, people thought the 
haze came from local factories, cars,   and rubbish burning. However, tests 
and comparisons with the industrial   smoke coming from Singaporean factories 
confirmed that the soot came from abroad. The Singapore Meteorological 
Service Department theorized   that the haze was coming from fires 
in Indonesia. Air crews flying into   the country and satellite photos later 
confirmed that that was indeed the case. In response, the Indonesian government 
denied that there were fires in their lands   big enough to cause the haze. Relations 
between the two countries at the time   were sensitive. Singapore's economy 
depended on investment from Indonesia. In a recurring theme, the Indonesians were not 
always open to criticism by their very small   neighbor. And with a few sovereignty 
disputes over some islands as well,   the Singaporeans mindfully dropped it. ## 1997 There were further haze incidents in 
Singapore in 1982, 1983, and then 1991. During those times, the Singapore 
government downplayed the issue.   It wasn't their causing. The evidence had 
not been conclusive that haze was hazardous   to health. And little can be done to urge a 
sovereign neighbor to do something about it. Then came 1997. That year saw one of the worst 
known haze incidents in the past half century   - affecting 100 million people in Malaysia, 
Brunei, Singapore, Thailand and the Philippines. Massive forest fires in Indonesia 
- spurred on by dryness due to an   El Niño cycle - spiraled out of control. 
Logged forests, peat swamps and grasslands   all caught on fire. Over 45,000 square 
kilometers of forests burned down. The United Nations labeled the fires as one of the   most damaging on record - with total 
economic costs of over $9 billion. The Pollution Standards Index in 
Singapore - which is based on the   concentration of particulate matter 
in the air - shot up to 226 which   is classified as "unhealthy". It was a 
record that stood for almost 20 years. Particulates in the air get lodged in the lungs, 
and stay there for a long time. Every 10 microgram   increase of particulate matter per cubic meter of 
air raises the number of hospital admissions and   ER visits by 1%. It triggers asthma, upper 
respiratory illness, and eye irritations. Schools, public offices, and factories all 
closed because of the haze. The regional   economy then was not in a good state. The fires 
made it worse. The haze became a global topic,   spurring conversations on their cause 
and what can be done to stop it. ## The Cause
The cause of these fires are not always clear. Sometimes, these fires occur as 
natural disasters. For instance,   fires in 1982 and 1983 were fanned by 
unusually high temperatures. And dry   conditions like those during El Niño 
can spontaneously cause fires too. But it is widely accepted that a significant 
number of these fires are deliberately set to   clear land for planting crops like oil 
palm - often on the islands of Sumatra   and the Indonesian portion of Borneo, Kalimantan. For plantation companies and small farmers 
alike, it is better to slash-and-burn the   forests rather than cutting them down 
and leaving them to rot. It is faster,   cheaper, and the left-behind 
ash helps fertilize the land. According to a study published by Victor Savage of 
the Nanyang Technological University in Singapore,   it costs $5 to burn down a hectare 
of forest. It costs $250 to do it   the "right" way. The economics are very 
clearly in favor of the unhealthy choice. Fires in the peat soils are particularly 
tricky. They are difficult to suppress   because they take place underground. 
They burn for a very long time,   releasing a particularly 
thick and carbon-rich smoke. In the case of 1997 - and many other years - 
land-clearing fires in Indonesia got out of   control thanks to the dryness. They eventually 
spread beyond the intended plantation land into   conservation areas and more. The authorities 
then need to scramble out to fight the fires. Indonesia's then-leader Suharto apologized 
to his neighbors for the situation,   acknowledging that the government did not move 
fast enough to stop the fires. But in largely   blaming the drought, he never mentioned 
that the fires were deliberately set. ## ASEAN Haze coming from fires in one country 
can easily affect all the others in   its local neighborhood thanks to 
storms and global wind patterns. And it is not like Indonesia likes setting 
itself on fire. The haze affects them too,   and they have to dedicate resources 
to fighting the fires. Despite this,   getting to an effective solution that 
works across borders is naturally tricky. ASEAN, or the Association 
of Southeast Asian Nations,   is an international organization established back 
in 1967 with ten member states. It has long been   seen as the second most successful 
regional association after the EU. ASEAN works in an interesting way - along what 
is called the "ASEAN Way" - which emphasizes   quiet diplomacy, consensus decisions, and 
non-interference in domestic matters. As you might   expect, this approach can make it difficult to get 
ten different states to quickly agree on things. ASEAN had wanted a haze solution as early 
as 1985 - when fires were first mentioned   in the Agreement on Conservation of Nature and 
Natural Resources. Then again in 1990 and 1992. After 1997, ASEAN had the Regional Haze 
Action Plan, which asked the states to create   national plans and strategies for reducing 
fires. It was largely ineffective. In 1999,   ASEAN drew up a zero-burning policy and 
urged states to implement and enforce it. Yet the Singaporean government still felt 
these setups lacked teeth because they   leniently allowed each member government to set 
up their own policies. The Singaporean people   wanted their government to do more, and they in 
turn pushed for something more legally binding. ## 2002 AATHP Such a solution needed the agreement of 
the country recognized as most often the   source for these haze-causing fires - Indonesia. But Indonesia is also ASEAN's largest country 
in terms of population, geographical size,   and natural resources. They sorta march 
to the beat of their own drum. Other ASEAN   countries like Malaysia and Singapore are 
wary of annoying their massive neighbor. It took a few years after the 1997 Haze for 
the Indonesian government to get to where they   felt ready to negotiate. There was the 1997 Asian 
Financial Crisis, which hit the economy very hard. It led to violence and a political 
crisis the following year. In May 1998,   Suharto resigned the Presidency,   ushering in what is called the Reform Era and 
a transition to a constitutional democracy. And then after that, Indonesia had 
to resolve the issue of East Timor,   the eastern half of the island 
of Timor in the Timor sea. The western half is part of Indonesia. 
In 1974, they invaded the eastern half,   brutally occupying the country for over 23 years. In 1999, the Indonesian government agreed to hold 
a referendum amongst the people. The East Timorese   voted to separate, which caused outbreaks of mass 
violence. That took time to deal with as well. So it was not until 2000 - three 
years after the 1997 haze - that the   Indonesian government felt ready to 
participate in talks about haze. Four   rounds of negotiations took place 
from March 2001 to September 2001. Thus in June 2002, we got the ASEAN 
Agreement on Transboundary Haze Pollution   or AATHP. It was the first legally-binding 
regional agreement in the ASEAN region,   using stronger language to accomplish its goal 
of reducing haze from land and forest fires. Actions would be enforced through the use of 
transboundary monitoring efforts. Countries   would offer their neighbors aid for monitoring 
and invest money into forest fire deterrence. ## Decentralized Power Malaysia was the first country 
to ratify the AATHP, in 2002. Others like Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam 
quickly followed within a year. But Indonesia   - the country seen as most often responsible 
for the haze - held out from ratification. Indonesia already has laws that ban illegal 
burning, which they mention a lot. But those   domestic laws suffer big loopholes and are 
weakly enforced to boot. Which is why the need   for transboundary monitoring and enforcement is so 
badly needed. For instance, Indonesia has banned   the commercial use of fire for clearing land 
since 1997. But they don't restrict planting   on burnt land - basically incentivizing 
you to do it if you can get away with it. And indeed, in order to be charged under 
the law, you basically have to be caught   red-handed or with comically obvious evidence 
like matches and jerry cans. Smart plantation   owners with "good relations" with the 
police can easily evade such inspections. Furthermore, the country's democratization 
decentralized power to local fiefdoms that   either were for or against the bill. 
Ratifying a bill like the 2002 AATHP   required buy-in from all of those authorities. The Indonesian people also weren't pushing their 
government for the bill either. While public   opinion thinks the haze as a hazard to health 
and a threat to tourism, it wasn’t necessarily   clamoring for regional diplomatic solutions 
like AATHP as the way to cut down on fires. This decentralized power and lack of groundroots 
push mean that plantations can cater to local   authorities to protect themselves. Many companies 
have government officials on the payroll,   creating large patronage networks 
that help them evade investigation. In the five years after the 
enactment of the 1997 law,   176 companies have been identified as violators. 
But only five of those were ever brought to court   with just one conviction. The offender 
was fined just $10,000 for the crime. Massive palm oil companies like Duta Palma 
continue to be some of the worst practitioners   of slash-and-burn agriculture. They are protected 
by the fact that Oil palm is a big business,   Indonesia's single largest export. Palm oil is 
widely used in food, health, and beauty products. Throughout the 2000s, Indonesia pushed to 
become the world’s largest producer of palm   oil. Deforestation and slash-and-burn has been 
an acceptable cost in pursuit of that goal. ## Delayed Ratification For over 10 years, the issue of Indonesia's 
non-ratification came up repeatedly in ASEAN   interactions. In response, the Indonesian 
government raised many objections. Like that sharing map data would reveal to 
everyone the country's natural resources,   which must be kept secret. Or 
that the public disclosure of   data violated the government's 
freedom of information laws. Or that national laws like the 2009 Law 
on Environmental Protection Management   were sufficient in preventing future fires 
and international scrutiny was unnecessary. Or that local authorities were 
uncomfortable with having foreign   authorities involved in their local 
governance. Or that Indonesia itself   was shouldering an unfair portion of the 
blame for these fires. Weren't many of the   plantation companies based out of or had 
shares trading in Malaysia or Singapore? Per the region's strong norms around 
sovereignty and non-interference,   ASEAN's members are loathe to criticize 
one another about their internal affairs. All the while, haze events repeatedly 
hit the region. In August 2005,   haze from Indonesia hit Malaysia - the 
biggest event since 1997. A state of   emergency was declared and Port Klang, the 
world's 12th largest port, closed down. Similar haze events took place in 2006, 2009,   2010, and 2013. The events in 2006 were 
particularly tense when the ASEAN ministers   broke the unspoken rules when they publicly 
urged Indonesia to ratify the agreement. That year, Singapore went to the United 
Nations General Assembly with the issue.   Indonesia was very annoyed by this, and they 
called it a violation of sovereignty. For the   next few years, the ASEAN governments 
decided to leave things as they were. Internally, the Indonesian government did try to 
do more, especially when it came to regulations   on the palm oil industry. But Certifications 
like the Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil or   ISPO often suffered interference from local 
power centers and fell short of expectations. ## Singapore's Law The haze event in 2013 was a really bad one. This 
time causing yet another international incident. This haze came from some 1,200 fires 
burning in Sumatra and Borneo. It was   the worst haze incident since 1997. In Singapore,   the PSI soared to 401, far surpassing 
the previous record of 226 from 1997. Responding to widespread public criticism,   in July 2013 the Singaporean government 
became the first Southeast Asian country   to enact their own haze legislation - the 
Transboundary Haze Pollution Act of 2014. The Act establishes criminal 
liability for companies - both   inside and outside of Singapore 
- contributing to haze pollution   as well as secondary liability for those 
condoning behaviors contributing to haze. And it also allows people to file civil 
lawsuits against companies whose actions   cause haze if said haze damaged or hurt 
Singaporean people or property. Again,   this is the case even if the company 
is based outside of Singapore. The Singaporean Act grated Singapore's 
neighbors - not just Indonesia but also   Malaysia. It was seen as a violation of 
the ASEAN's norms. Indonesian ministers   and the ambassador called the law a 
violation of their sovereignty - vowing   that their citizens shall not be 
prosecuted under Singaporean law. Nevertheless, Singapore passing the law renewed 
pressure on Indonesia to ratify the 2002 AATHP.   The Indonesian president Yudhoyono appeared 
on television in Malaysia and Singapore to   apologize. Both countries were thankful for 
the apology but again pressed for ratification. Internally, ordinary Indonesians and their 
legislators started to grow concerned about   how the haze might affect their 
own health, living conditions,   and standing within the ASEAN region. Thus 
finally in 2014, Indonesia ratified the treaty. ## Since Ratification Despite these diplomatic advances, 
major haze incidents have continued   to hit the area. Implementation and 
enforcement of the laws remain difficult. Take the case of Singapore's Transboundary 
Haze Pollution Act - it is relatively easy   to figure out whose plot is currently on fire. 
It has been far harder to figure out who owns   that plot. For that you need concession maps 
- preferably from the governments themselves. But despite initial agreements, the concession 
maps took a long time to be publicly released.   Not just Indonesia's but also Malaysia's, 
where the plantation companies saw them as   a state secret. It wasn't until 2020 that 
they finally came out into the public. Other efforts include civil lawsuits by 
residents - assisted by local NGOs - as   well as financial pressures from banks or 
companies higher up in palm oil supply chain. Like the work Singapore's supermarket 
NTUC FairPrice did in bringing palm   oil from certified sources to their shelves. Or big food multinationals like Nestle, 
Unilever and Cargill suspending palm   purchases from those companies violating 
their sustainable palm oil policy. Every bit helps, in light of how long it might 
take to get things done in ASEAN. In 2016,   the countries got together and 
issued a statement affirming their   determination to achieve a haze-free ASEAN 
by 2020. That has not yet been achieved. ## Conclusion The effects of climate change are likely to   make these fires stronger and 
more frequent in the future. Major fire incidents around the 
world have brought haze to cities   like Los Angeles, New York City, and London. Back in Southeast Asia, hotter temperatures 
and more frequent dryness periods can dry up   the peatlands and the forests, making 
them more susceptible to burning. The ten ASEAN countries must work 
more closely together to adapt to   these forthcoming changes. Fires happen in 
other countries like Malaysia of course.   But Indonesia lays at the very heart 
of the issue. If they don’t succeed in   squashing slash-and-burn then, it all falls 
apart and the haze incidents will continue. They want to help fix this, of 
course. But it is a massive country,   and resources are limited. And 
the country's history and domestic   political situation is complex. Work 
continues on this ongoing haze puzzle.