Hello everyone, and welcome! In this video we are going to talk about
a suspension design that McLaren uses in the MP4-12C. And they also use a similar set up in the P1, and this set up allows them to get away
without using an anti-roll bar. So how does this design work? Well, looking at it here, we've got our two tires, this is just one
axle that we are looking at here are our control arms, connected to those control arms are pisons These pistons are just, you know,
flat pistons it doesn't have any pores or
anything like that for fluid to move between
these two chambers. We have these hydraulc cylinders which
are filled with fluid and then, as you can see,
they are connected diagonally here, so, this chamber is connected
via some tubing here and this is connected
via some tubing here. And then we have these flow restrictors at the exits of each hydraulic cylinder. And we also have these roll accumulators. So the process of how this works and how this acts as an anti-roll bar: If you were to think about this going around a right-hand corner. And something I should mention too is this system here replaces the shock absorbers and the sway bars, you still are going to
have the coil springs separate from this system. And so When you are going into that right corner,
so the body... You're, err, taking a left corner rather, and the body
is rolling right so all of this car is gonna want to roll right. So relatively speaking this wheel is moving up, relative to the body. So as this right wheel moves up, you are going to move this piston up. As you move this piston up,
you gonna force this fluid, into here. That fluid is going to push this piston up as that piston is pushed up, it's gonna force
this wheel up, relative to the body. And so you gonna flatten that body out. And so, this is going to happen basically
in real time it's not going to be like this delay,
where the body rolls and then it pushes the fluid.
It's kind of act as a roll barrier, so the vehicle doesn't want to roll. Now some other things involved with this system, we have this roll accumulators. And so these have a flexible membrane
there's gas above them, probably something like Nitrogen, and then below you have that
hydraulic fluid. And you can adjust the pressure in
these roll accumulators; you can ether add gas,
or you can add fluid to the system. And if you are at low pressure,
when you hit a bump, that's going to force this
flexible membrane up, and, rather than send that fluid to
the other cylinder. So if you had it at a soft,
you know, setting basically, it would accumulate there,
in that accumulator rather then passing over so, the whole car
doesn't lift when you hit a bump. Now if you have it really stiff, that's where it's going to be, kind of,
counter acting that roll. And so you can adjust the roll, you know, how much roll you have
by adjusting the pressure in these roll accumulators Now the other part of this is
that you have these flow restrictors at each of these. And these are going to be
electronically adjustable ELECTRONICALLY adjustable at each of these exits from these hydraulic cylinders. So as that fluid exits out, you can change, you know, the size
of the ports going through these so it's, you know, much more restrictive,
or much less restrictive so that is going to act as your damper. And you can adjust your damping simply by allowing how much flow you
allow through these flow restrictors. So the big advantage of
this kind of system is the tunability. Because you can tune for damping and you can tune for roll and basically for any scenario, and you can adjust that on the fly. So that's whats really cool about this
suspension set up and why you'll find in
higher end expensive models. This was also used by Citroen
in the World Rally Championship, and their vehicle... The FIA, considered
too big of advantage, so they banned it in 2006 But it is a very cool system, It's also being used by Lexus
in a production vehicle. Pretty cool system, pretty cool
suspension design here, which kind of eliminates an anti-roll bar, and it gives you a lot more control then you would have with just a static
anti-roll bar. So thank you guys for watching,
and if you have any questions or comments feel free to leave them below.