Japan's rise as an economic,   military, and technological power has been 
closely tied to its production of steel. Iron and steel - dirty as they are - are at 
the heart of modern technological innovation. Artisanal Japanese steel making is 
a cherished tradition. But as an   industrial steel power, Japan needed to 
overcome serious shortcomings. They did. In this video, we look at the 
birth and early history of the   Japanese steel industry and its 
national champion, Nippon Steel. ## Beginnings Much as in India, Japan’s steel-making 
traditions date back to antiquity. The first things that might come 
to mind when we talk about Japanese   Steel are those memes as well as 
the famous Japanese sword-makers,   who produced steel weapons using the old 
ways - referred to as Tatara (たたら製鉄). I have occasionally seen the 
process depicted in anime,   but I have always been curious 
about how it actually works. It starts with people collecting 
iron sand from the rivers or mines   up in the mountains. This sand - which 
contains far less iron than traditional   iron ores - is concentrated to about 
50-60% iron content using magnets. The sand is then heated up along with 
charcoal in a special clay furnace at   about 1,200-1,500 degrees Celsius - lower than 
steel's melting point. To feed the flames,   laborers will blow air into the 
furnace by hand using bellows. After about up to week, we break open 
the clay furnace to pull out the grand   prize - a large ingot of blister 
steel referred to as a "Kera" (鉧). Inside this ingot will be pieces of workable 
steel referred to as "tamahagane" (玉鋼) or   literally speaking - "mother of steel". 
Iron workers can then shear off the   tamahagane and distribute it to the 300 or so 
professionals sword makers around the country. The sword makers make the swords in a series 
of painstaking steps. Pieces of Tamahagane   are hammered into a plate which is then 
wrapped in paper, and heated up in a furnace. The resulting steel block is 
then folded over about 10-15   times to create the sword along 
with its distinctive patterns. I guess that explains the origin of the meme. ## Need for Steel This laborious process makes a beautiful product, 
no doubt. But it was no way at all economical. The single massive ingot - the Kera - consumes   about 8-9 tons of iron sand 
and 11-13 tons of charcoal. A modern reconstruction of the 
process found that - even with the   help of electrically powered bellows 
- a single Kera costs about $100,000   in 1970 dollars - a hundred times 
more expensive than modern steel. In order to produce far more steel, 
the Western countries switched over   to a familiar two-step process. In the 
first step, you combine iron ore and a   high-carbon fuel known as "coke" in a blast 
furnace to produce pig iron at the bottom. This pig iron is a high-carbon intermediary 
product between steel and iron. After that,   you can refine it into crude steel and 
finished steel products. These can then   be used for construction, munitions, 
birthday parties, whatever have you. So keep in mind, there are two separate 
items being produced here - pig iron and   steel - and two industries making them. There 
are factories that make and sell pig iron to   the steel-makers who then make steel from 
it. Then there are Integrated makers who   will make both - taking in raw iron ore 
and selling finished steel at the end. When Matthew Perry came to Japan in the 1850s,   the country's steel industry was nothing 
more than scattered artisanal furnaces. Thousands of steel masters working all day could 
not produce enough steel for the country’s needs.   And without enough steel, Japan cannot produce 
enough cannons and weapons to fight off invaders. After the chaos of the Meiji Restoration, the 
new government's main industrial policy was   to build up its military capacity 
and industrial output. Steel was   correctly judged to be at the heart of its 
transformation. But there were some issues. ## A First Failure In 1875, the Japanese government 
began work on the Kamaishi Iron Works,   the country's oldest Western-style iron factory. At its peak, the Kamaishi Works - made 
of a British design - produced about   5,000 tons of pig iron. Its two 25-ton 
blast furnaces were supplied with iron   sands from the nearby mine as well as 
charcoal as its high-carbon source. This was a time of great experimentation. 
The Japanese government was setting up a   variety of state-owned enterprises in 
cotton, silk, shipping, shipbuilding.   Many of these SOEs were not profitable. The 
Kamaishi was one of those unprofitable SOEs. Just 95 days after startup, the factory suffered a 
massive fire in its charcoal facilities. Then the   second blast furnace had to be shut down due 
to charcoal supply shortages. What the heck? So in 1882, the government sent an inspector 
to review the raw goods issue. Their report   detailed problems not only in finding enough 
wood to produce the necessary charcoal,   but also serious deficiencies in the iron sands. At the start, it was just assumed that the 
area was rich in both iron and charcoal.   So the British - based on this feedback 
from the Japanese and unfamiliar with   the landscape - designed a big 
blast furnace to accommodate. Blast furnaces can be quite efficient, 
but they are delicate. And need to be   constantly fed with the right raw materials. 
So when the inspector estimated the Kamaishi   mine's iron deposits at a minuscule 
130,000 tons, it was quite deflating. Pessimistic, the government sold 
off the Iron Works. Only to throw a   fit when the entrepreneur who bought 
them - Chobei Tanaka, a former Army   food merchant - proved everyone wrong and 
made the Kamaishi profitable in the 1890s. As Japan industrialized, it continued 
to import most of the pig iron and   rolled steel for laying down rail and 
building textile factories. Proposals for   other government-owned domestic steelworks 
cropped up, but were rejected due to cost. ## Yawata But then came the first 
Sino-Japanese War in 1894-1895. When the war first broke out, the British 
embargoed all arms bound for Japan through   Singapore. This embargo caused shortages, 
threatening the war effort. Nevertheless,   the Japanese defeated the Qing, 
forcing the latter to sue for peace. Reflecting on the shortages and riding 
a wave of nationalist patriotism,   the Japanese government proposed a 
new domestic iron and steel factory.   Feeding off of Japan's own supply of iron 
sands, the integrated factory's production   was intended to replace pig iron imports 
and build up Japanese military capacity. Thus, we have Yawata Steel Works (八幡製鐵所), 
sometimes also called the Imperial Steel   Works. Japan commissioned the 
plant's design from Germany,   importing German technology to stock it. 
They made this choice assuming that German   technology was both the most up-to-date and most 
suitable for manufacturing many steel types. Yawata was sited at a small village - 
Yawata Village, ergo the name - in the   Fukuoka Prefecture on Kyushu Island. They 
chose it for its geographical protections,   nearby coal field, sea transportation, 
large labor, and plentiful water. The plant first fired up in 
February 1901. Interestingly,   just a month before JP Morgan created 
the once-mighty US Steel Corporation. And like with US Steel, at the time of 
its founding, Yawata was the country's   biggest company - employing nearly 
5,000 blue and white collar workers. Yawata - funded in small part with 
reparations from the losing Qing   Empire - marks the beginning of the 
modern Japanese steel industry. Its   90,000-ton capacity in 1901 rivaled that 
of the foreign steelmakers at the time. ## Early Struggles The end of the first Sino-Japanese 
war heralded a massive economic   boom. And with that, iron and steel 
consumption hit unprecedented levels. In 1893, Japan used about 37,938 and 65,618 
tons of iron and steel, respectively. Three years later, that had grown to 63,596 
tons of iron and 179,946 tons of steel. Most   of this steel was used for buildings, 
railroads, and random plates and rods. Almost all the iron and steel was imported. 
Yawata should have benefitted from this huge   demand. But the Japanese plans - perhaps 
seeking too eagerly to match Western   scale - were too ambitious. The German-made 
designs did not match the coke from Japanese   coke ovens and the quality of the coke 
it produced, which impeded progress. Over time and after massive trial and error, 
the Japanese engineers reworked all of the   machinery to better fit Japan's raw materials. 
Finding the local iron sands insufficient,   Yawata was forced to change the original 
plan and import iron ore from abroad. One big move after the First Sino-Japanese 
War was Japan's first iron supply contract   with China - an agreement to exchange 40,000 tons 
of Japanese coke for 50,000 tons of iron ore from   the Da-yeh iron mines in Hubei Province 
each year for 15 years starting in 1898. The Japanese government helpfully 
abolished import tariffs on these   cheaply-mined Chinese iron ores. Japanese banks 
like Mitsui also lent millions of yen to the   Chinese mine operator - Han-Yeh-Ping. 
60% of Yawata's iron came from China. A second major source of iron ore was added 
with the Japanese colonization of Korea.   Their workable deposits were not in enormous 
quantities, but were easily mined in enough   quantities to fuel Yawata and the other 
various steel works sprouting up in Japan. Japan spent and fought for these for 
several reasons. First, but less so,   they wanted to build industrial capacity. Second,   they wanted to deny access to the 
Europeans like the British or the Germans. The cost of iron and steel is highly 
dependent on the cost of raw iron ore   and coke. So these arrangements gave Yawata 
a powerful advantage. Pig iron from Yawata   was quoted at 23 yen per ton, while the 
privately-run Kamaishi's was 27 yen. ## Government Ties
Another major development favoring Yawata occurred in 1904 when Japan fought a 
war with the Russian Empire. The Russo-Japanese War not only sparked 
immense demand for more steel for munitions,   but it also pushed the government to double the   factory's capacity to 180,000 
tons of finished steel product. Yawata steel began going into Japanese 
military munitions and vehicles. In 1906,   Yawata represented over 90% of the 
country's domestic steel output. And then in 1910, Yawata turned its first 
"profit" - 52,000 yen. I say "profit" ... Because it was calculated using the same 
definition used by today's Silicon Valley   startups - before dividends, 
interest, or depreciation. Before then, the government 
had invested 37 million yen,   and the venture had lost a cumulative 
11.1 million yen. The government did   want the factory to turn a profit - 
and they constantly pushed it to do so. But Yawata's government ties had thrown 
it into a dilemma. Those ties grew it   into a titan and guaranteed its access to 
cheap ores. But it also linked the company   to the specter of military aggression 
and imperial conquest - forcing it to   uphold the explicitly non-commercial 
goals the government wanted it to. ## World War I World War I grew immense demand 
for iron and steel products for   use in machinery, munitions, and ships. Military expenditure grew three times over from 
823 million yen in 1913 to 3 billion yen in 1919. Machinery output grew almost seven times over from 
111 million tons in 1913 to 716 million in 1919. Finished steel demand grew from 751,000 
tons in 1913 to 1.1 million tons in 1919. At the same time, the war greatly 
disrupted steel imports into Japan.   Germany basically ended all exports 
for some unknown reason. The US then   tried to make up for it until some other 
unknown thing happened a few years later. Japanese shipbuilders in particular suffered 
what they called a steel "famine". So Yawata   and the rest of the Japanese steel industry 
frantically built up domestic supply. ## A Shift Yawata thus embarked on a third 
major expansion plan to double   up their capacity from its existing 
350,000 tons of steel to 650,000 tons. This expansion was controversial. The other 
privately-owned steelmakers complained about   Yawata potentially oversupplying the market 
and urged to cooperate, not compete with them. In response, the government passed a 
new law in 1917 - the Iron and Steel   Business Promotion Law. It gave tax breaks 
on equipment imported by smaller steelmakers.   Yawata also started selling some of its 
pig iron to outside domestic steelmakers. It was a great shift in Japanese 
industrial policy. Previously,   the government spent its resources boosting 
its state-owned corporation - basically   Yawata. We can argue that these efforts had 
not succeeded in achieving the policy goals. Yawata dominated the domestic iron and steel 
markets - with a staggering 85% market share   in 1913. But considering the overall dearth of 
domestic output - in 1913, two-thirds of Japan's   steel demand had to be satisfied via imports - 
that dominance was not something to be proud of. But after the Law, the government shifted to the 
idea of promoting the steel industry as a whole.   And with that, the entire industry took a big step 
forward - with private industry leading the way. By 1919, Yawata's share of the domestic market 
- which was 75% as late as 1916 - fell to just   51%. Startups began building, seeking to 
take advantage of the favorable economic   environment. Just as those factories 
entered production, the war ended. ## Depression The end of World War I ushered in 
a decade of economic difficulty. Munitions demand fell off a cliff - in part 
due to the cancellation of a big Navy fleet   expansion. From 1922 to 1925, Yawata only got 
8% of the Navy orders they had been promised. As is the case with any high capital 
expenditure industry, idle plants - like   hands - are a disaster. Yawata pivoted hard into 
civil construction projects and railroads - bars,   rods, pipes, sheets, etc. This intensified 
competition in the wider steel market. Upstream, the Japanese iron industry 
faced the challenge of Indian pig iron   exports. 80% of the pig iron in Japan was 
imported, and half of that came from India. The steelmakers - desperate for any margin they 
could take - snapped up this cheap pig iron.   This forced the Japanese pig iron factories 
- including the aforementioned Kamaishi iron   works - to consolidate, joining Japan’s 
big business conglomerates, the Zaibatsu. By 1924, the entire iron and steel 
industry had joined either Mitsui,   Mitsubishi, or Yawata. The government 
then encouraged cartels in the pig   iron and finished steel industries to 
stabilize prices. That sort of worked. But the fundamental underlying issue was 
that there were still too many small furnaces   and no economies of scale. In 1926, all of 
Japan produced less steel than Luxembourg,   1.5 million tons to 2.2 million. Without difficult 
rationalization, this situation will persist. ## Great Depression After the War, Japan fell into 
a great economic depression. These difficulties were for several 
reasons - a questionable return to   the gold standard as well as heavy 
debt from the Kanto Earthquake. Export values fell 50%. Workers' real incomes 
fell 30%. Over 3 million Japanese fell unemployed,   forcing families to sell their 
daughters into the brothels. In 1931 Japan began its idiotic campaigns 
of military aggressions - beginning with   the false-flag Manchurian Incident 
as well as the subsequent invasion   and conquest of the northeastern regions of China. Back home in the steel industry, 
the gentleman's agreement i.e.   cartel between importers and the 
domestic industry holding up the   pig iron market fell apart. Pig iron 
prices crashed 35% from 1929 to 1931. In 1931, the Government attempted 
to merge together all of Japan's   iron and steel makers - calling 
it an industrial rationalization. The Mitsui Zaibatsu supported this idea. 
Its steel arm was fully integrated making   both iron and steel, so they were hit 
very hard by the pig iron crash. It   was financially to their advantage to consolidate. But Yawata along with the powerful 
privately-owned Nippon Steel Tube   company and other non-integrated steelmakers 
were against it. In particular, they doubted   the combined company's financial viability. 
So that particular proposal didn't go through. Things changed. In 1932, the government 
passed a tariff on pig iron. Prime   Minister Korekiyo Takahashi took 
Japan back off the gold standard,   causing the yen to plummet in value 
but restoring economic growth. These   positive developments reversed Yawata's 
previous resistance to consolidation. ## Japan Steel Thus in February 28th 1933, the government passed 
a law merging Yawata with five of Japan's private   iron and steel companies to create the 
Japan Iron & Steel Corporation (日本製鐵). I shall refer to this company as Japan 
Iron & Steel to distinguish it from   one of its descendants, Nippon Steel. 
They are distinctly different entities. At its founding, the company controlled over 95% 
of the country’s pig iron, 56% of Japan's crude   ingot steel production, and 52% of finished steel. 
The lower market shares when it came to steel   were due to several large private steel companies 
declining to join in due to issues over valuation. The Japan Iron & Steel Corporation was a weird 
private-public amalgamation. On first glance,   this new company was a state-run steel 
monopoly. For example, it was over 50% owned   by the government. And it was also beholden to 
the government ministries' commands and/or veto. However, it was also a private corporation 
and deliberately set up as such for maximum   flexibility to achieve the industry's 
"rationalization" and catch-up with the   West. It was why Yawata agreed 
to the whole thing in the first   place - to free itself from the 
constraints of public oversight. Japan Steel - along with the privately owned 
Japan Steel Tube Company - was the cornerstone   of the Japanese steel industry. And at its core 
was the original plant near Yawata village in   Kyushu. By 1945, it alone would represent a 
third of Japan's entire iron and steel capacity. ## World War II As Japan fell deeper into 
militarism throughout the 1930s,   the industry expanded their 
capacity to prepare for war. It was clear very early on that the Japanese 
steel and war machines depended on imports   of iron and coal. With Britain controlling pig 
iron imports from India, the military government   forced all-out exploitation of their colonies' 
resources in Korea, Manchuko, and Northern China. In 1938, the military government 
passed a mobilization law - over   extreme business opposition. This gave 
them unlimited control to set prices,   regulate activity, wages, 
build stockpiles and the like. And then in mid-1940, the military government made 
the poor decision to invade Southeast Asia. A year   later, it attacked Pearl Harbor, triggering the 
Pacific War. They gambled on a short war and lost. By 1942, Allied blockades began choking off 
supplies flowing into Japan. Imports to the   Home Islands totaled 10.12 million 
tons in 1940. Much of that had been   badly needed Chinese iron ores. Two years 
later, that had fallen to 8.74 million. Sunk transport capacity took their toll. Yet 
despite these major setbacks and shortcomings,   the military government ordered their Japanese   steel industry to provide 10 
million tons of steel by 1944. Just to compare, in 1941 the industry 
delivered 4.5 million tons. And that   was largely prior to the start of 
the Pacific War. 10 million tons   was so far from realistic that 
it might be downright insane. When actual production fell short of goals, 
the government admitted a new path was   necessary. They devolved administrative 
control to a trade association run by the   steel companies' managers - a forerunner of 
business-government relations after the War. Production improved to new heights in 1943. But 
it could not last. The blockade was working.   Orders to stockpile before the Pacific 
War were not properly followed. Cut off   from their mines in China, the Japanese began 
frantically mining inferior ores in northeast   Korea - closer to Japan, and perceived to 
be easier to bring home. They also reopened   those old fashioned iron sand mines in the 
Home Islands. What was old is new again. 1943 marked the peak of Japanese steel 
production. By December 1944, actual   production was just 43% of capacity. Japan's 
steel industry was slowly starving to death. ## Steel Shortages Steel is the foundation of war production. Its   shortages greatly impacted the war 
effort and by proxy, civilian life. By December 1944, 20% of new merchant ships 
were made from wood - a real throwback.   Residential home construction halted - only 10% of 
planned dorms and houses were completed in 1942. The price of iron kettles and saucepans 
soared nearly 10 times over in the black   markets from December 1943 to July 1945. 
And let us not even talk about bicycles. In 1944, the Allies identified Yawata Steel 
Mills and its critical coking plants as a   strategic target. They carried out 
three major bombing runs on Yawata. The first two attacks in June and 
August 1944 did minimal damage to   the complex and its coking plants. Though 
there was some damage to the nearby city. Allied intelligence later decided to focus 
on other targets - correctly reasoning that   it would be difficult to blow up all 
the Japanese steel factories. Plus,   the factories would be useless anyway without 
imported ores. Which Japan did not have. Much later though, the Allies did a third 
firebombing run near the war's end - just   two days after the Hiroshima atomic 
bombing. This run killed or injured   2,500 people and destroyed 20% of Yawata 
city. Hard to say from the histories,   but it seems like the steel factory 
and its workers again largely survived. But the smoke rising from the city's 
ruins in the wake of that firebombing   run saved its neighbor Kokura from being 
made the target of the second atomic bomb. ## Conclusion At the end of World War II, the 
Japanese steel industry laid in ruins. Damage directly done to the individual steel 
facilities had not actually been that heavy. But the war and surrender deprived 
the Japanese steel industry of its   major ore and coal mines in Korea 
and Mainland China. Without those   captive reserves - and no foreign exchange 
to buy new ones - the factories fell silent. In fact, why bother at all? There began talk 
of letting the iron and steel industries go   entirely. One Osaka cotton spinning executive 
said point-blank to a steel executive: > Since Japan does not have any iron ore nor 
coal, she does not need her costly iron and   steel industry. Our cotton spinning firms will 
build the Japanese economy through exports. It was not an uncommon sentiment. But they 
were wrong, of course. And thankfully,   Japan did not abandon their steel industry. 
Instead they did the opposite. The stage is   set for a magnificent comeback. But let’s save 
that story for another video in another time.