- Honor is a brand that you might not be
incredibly familiar with. However, a few months ago when
they sent me their Magic Vs, it was an incredibly impressive device. So, when Honor offered to
sponsor a trip out to Barcelona to take a look at their latest
flagship, it was an easy yes. And when you think about
it, Honor is a brand which is really trying to focus on the global market right now. And to do that, as a sort of
newcomer in a lot of ways, you can't just be okay,
you have to be great. You have to be better
than the current options, 'cause otherwise, why would
anyone even consider you? Not only did they announce
the final shipping version of the Magic Vs, which they
have in the booth behind me, but importantly, they've
also announced this, the Magic5 Pro. Now this is a proper flagship device. There are a few things
that I like about it, but one of the most important ones is almost the ambition. So this is not a budget device. This is not a weird sidegrade, right, like this is proper,
high-end flagship device. So I found some random
influencers in the wild here to discuss the Magic5 Pro. - I think, they're going
all out, full on flagship. We've got three 50-megapixel cameras. I think that's the first time I've seen three 50-megapixel cameras, not smartphone - Not 350, three (bell
rings) 50-megapixels - Three times, no, then
we're confusing it with zoom. Three individual 50-megapixel cameras. - Now, specs are one thing,
and they're important, don't get me wrong, specs are important, but a lot of companies have terrific looking specs on the list. That doesn't always necessarily translate into the experience. - I know you were saying about the specs, but when you tick off all the boxes, then you really stand
out as flagship, right, because that's what you're up against, especially in the Android space. It's like, okay, does it
have this, this, and this? Especially with the 8 Gen 2,
we've seen how efficient it is. - Look, I've been doing
this for a long time, so I definitely get a little
bit pessimistic sometimes. But so many phones are so similar. It's little iterative updates
over and over and over again, which is great and it's
important, but it's not exciting. Where as you look at Honor, they have all the incentive in the world to be super aggressive, not only with their
marketing and their pricing, but really, with the features,
because let's be real, if you've got this as an
option, it has to stand out. It can't just be okay,
it can't just be decent. This needs to be better. This needs to be able to
stand out in a real way. So, I'm partial to this green
color, but they've got this, so they call this the Gaudi Curve. And essentially, the entire camera bump, if you can see here, it's
very nicely tapered up into the top of the phone. If you're gonna go and put
a camera bump like that on the back of your phone, you better back it up
with some good cameras. (soft gentle music)
- I like the design as well. I mean, some unique treatment,
given the camera island, the way it is, it won't
wobble on a flat surface. So those kind of things, at
times, get the interest back. - Look on top, we've got an IR blaster. When was the last time
you've seen an IR blaster on a flagship smartphone, it's been years. On top of that, you've got this speaker, which actually goes out the top as well as through the earpiece. They've got some really cool AI tech to actually allow you to
actually cancel out the audio. So if you're on a speaker phone call, and you don't want other people to hear, you can actually use that to cancel out, so that no one can hear besides you. One of the more interesting features is the AI motion capture. Essentially what this does is
it is constantly taking photos and the actual AI processing
is going to help determine what the best photo is
and give that to you. So you don't have to, if you're trying to capture some action, hit the shutter at the exact right time. Supposedly, it'll be smart
enough to sort it out for itself. Honor actually used this to capture a Guinness
World Record slam dunk. Without touching it whatsoever, it was able to capture
the exact right moment and highlight that still, so I'm going to emulate that myself. So we're not gonna touch the phone. I'm gonna jump, and we're
gonna see how well it does. All right, you ready? All right, three, two, one. (camera shoots) That's pretty much all the way there. You can see it captured me at
the very height of my jump. - Austin actually got this in one go. - It's like one of those things where I feel like sometimes
it seems like a gimmick. Like, oh, it's an actual
feature, but you actually use it, and you don't have to hit the
shutter button whatsoever, and it detects when you do something cool. It's not always gonna be completely perfect, but when it captures a shot like that with the correct timing
that I would never be able to exactly hit on the top of the jump, it's legitimately really cool. Now, while this is running
incomplete software, and I, of course, would
never make judgements based on non-final hardware and software, there are a couple of things that are actually really cool here. So if you look inside the camera app, I'm not showing you this by the way, you didn't see this for me. So there are a bunch of features, but one of the things I like
is the actual movie mode, which actually supports full log. So you can actually turn on,
and it will shoot in log, just like the camera that
we're recording on right now. If you're not familiar with what log is, so the A7s3 that we're using shoots in a very flat
picture profile called log, which is what this looks like right now, however you use this, because you can get the
absolute maximum dynamic range, color, and you have the maximum
flexibility after the fact, so when you want to do your color grade, and now, it looks like this. Well this phone actually allows you to do a very similar thing, 10 bit, 4K. I'd love to show you what it looks like, unfortunately, I definitely,
definitely can't do that, but it brings me back to
when companies were hungry. It brings me back to when
smartphones were fun. Things can get boring really quick when everyone has the same specs and the same battery and blah blah blah. There's not that much, of
course, to differentiate things, but also it's not that
much to be excited about. - For that, go watch
on YouTube MrMobile's, "When Phones Were Fun." - (laughing) Yeah, I didn't think he was gonna plug his own
channel there, 'cause for that, you should watch
Technical Guruji. (laughs) So I think there hasn't
been too much competition in the way of foldables recently,
but that's changing now. And with the Vs, having
that flat, gapless design, I mean that's something
that's really good, 'cause it doesn't feel like
a foldable all the time. And you can use the cover
display practically. It's not tiny, it's a
very usable cover display. - This trip has been eye-opening for me. It's something to see a company like Honor really trying their best
to break into new markets and to deliver products which
are legitimately exciting. I can't stress that enough. Being actually good and exciting is very different than just existing and delivering devices
which are fine and okay. And I can say that it is only a good thing to have more competition in this space. So huge thank you to Honor for having us out here to Barcelona and giving us this early
sneak peak, so stay tuned. I'd love to get a deep
dive into these things once they've actually gone on sale, and I can spend proper time. But, I'm just gonna use AI to capture the rest of my video now. (soft gentle music)