I was walking around Tainan near the city’s 
historical center. It is a great place to explore.   You can shop at the flower market, check out the 
wonderful cafes, and eat delicious meat buns. But amidst the bustle of everyday life, I noticed 
a little monument tucked away in the corner.   At its top was a statue of a bomb. A few blocks away, you can find the Hayashi 
Department Store. Opened in 1933, it was only one   of two buildings in the whole city at the time 
with a modern elevator. On its roof is a memorial   to the substantial damage the building and the 
city took during a massive WWII bombing raid. As a Japanese colony, Taiwan 
had a crucial strategic role   in the Empire of Japan's colonization of Asia.   When the Japanese war effort began to crumble, 
the consequences of having such importance would   reach Taiwan's shores. In this video I want 
to talk about the time America bombed Taiwan. Japan had positioned Taiwan as a source of 
resources and soldiers to power the war effort.   Taiwan's agricultural resources 
helped feed Japanese soldiers.   Taiwan's southern industrial centers helped 
build aircraft and fuel for those planes.   Several regiments were recruited 
out of Taiwan’s people. When Japan idiotically began a 
violent war of Asian conquest,   Taiwan island became a natural target. 
At first these air strikes were tactical,   minor actions that were taken when 
the opportunity presented itself. In February 23rd 1938, the Soviet Union strafed 
Songshan airport in Taipei. They had done this   on "Red Army Day" to show the ongoing ties of 
support between the Soviets and the Nationalist   government of the Republic of China. They dropped 
about 280 bombs which damaged a number of parked   Japanese aircraft. The attack came as a 
surprise and caught air defenses unaware. The attack had little lasting effect. But as one 
of the first successful bombings on Japanese soil   (but far from the last), it holds some symbolism. 
Because Japan and the Soviet Union were not at   war with each other (and would largely not 
be with the signing of the Soviet–Japanese   Neutrality Pact in 1941), the raid was said to 
have been done by the "Soviet Volunteer Team". That formal announcement was of course a 
charade and government officials knew the truth. First Lady of the Republic of China 
Soong Mei-ling and her brother T.V. Soong   held a banquet to toast the 
pilots' actions, saying: > You have used this air strike to show 
that the Russians are not talking in words,   but in actions ... it has 
helped the Chinese people Other than this minor raid though, Taiwan 
stayed rather untouched over the next few   years of the War. The Americans did launch a 
12-plane minor bombing raid of Taiwan in 1943   that damaged the Hsinchu Airport and downed 
17 Japanese fighters. But that was about it. This was all about to change, though, in 1944. ## Taiwan or the Philippines? In July 1944, US President FDR 
met with Admiral Chester Nimitz   and General Douglas MacArthur 
to consult on strategy. For over a year and a half, Nimitz 
and his superior Ernest King   had been at odds over the 
answer to a big question: Should the Americans push for the acquisition 
of the island of Luzon in the Philippines? Or Taiwan, then referred to as Formosa? Most military planners saw Taiwan as 
strategically important to the war effort.   Seizing the island would secure 
supply lines to Mainland China,   more seriously cut Japanese lines of communication 
to the rest of its empire, and allow American   B-29s to drop heavier bomb loads to the 
home islands. Everyone agreed on this. The disagreement was over the sequence. 
Which should America take first? King, like I said, wanted to go for Taiwan 
first. But his subordinates and peers disagreed. Nimitz and a few others felt that it 
would be imprudent to invade Taiwan   unless Japanese airpower launching out of Luzon 
was first neutralized. So he leaned to Luzon. General MacArthur for his part refused to 
bypass any part of the Philippines. He famously   a few years earlier had declared that he would 
return there as the Japanese overran his forces. And then yet another faction of officers 
felt that the Americans should bypass   both and go straight to a 
direct invasion of Kyushu. The debate was long. But eventually 
the American military establishment   came to a shared consensus that a Luzon 
invasion presented better prospects than Taiwan.   The Philippines held value as a former 
American colony and its reconquest would   restore American prestige. This was a 
real factor, not just newspaper politics. And frankly, the Luzon plan was more feasible.   The Japanese were already in the 
midst of rapidly arming Taiwan.   Invading the island with its rocky shores and 
challenging geography would not be a simple task. Furthermore, the Taiwan plan also called for the 
simultaneous seizure of deepwater ports in Xiamen.   But Chiang Kai-shek's last airbases in southeast 
China had recently been taken by the Japanese,   losing critical air support for such a prospect. By autumn 1944, an invasion of Taiwan 
was deemed to only win the island's   south - and would trigger a titanic Japanese 
counterattack from the forces stationed up north. In the end, it just made more 
military and political sense.   The Americans eventually decided to skip 
Taiwan and focus on the Philippines. In October 1944 they would fight 
and win the Battle of Leyte Island   and end three years of Japanese 
rule over the Philippines. Such a decision would have great consequences. 
It spared the Taiwanese from the destruction   of an all-out American invasion. But as a 
consolation prize, the Americans launched   the first of a series of tactical bombing 
raids on Taiwan. The colonial authorities   began publishing leaflets so that the people 
can recognize the aircraft as they come. ## October 1944, Southern Taiwan To support American efforts in the Battle of 
Leyte Island, the Americans positioned their   Navy Fast Carrier Task Force (TF38) 
to the southeast of Taiwan island. They then launched daytime bombing raids 
on southern Taiwan in October 1944.   The targets would be Taiwan's military 
facilities: Sugar factories in Pingtung,   the port of Kaohsiung, and the Gangshan 
Aircraft Manufacturing Plant in Kaohsiung. From the 12th to the 17th, four detachments 
bombed targets. The Japanese Air Force   launched to repel the invaders but they 
were brushed away with ease - the Japanese   would lose over 300 aircraft in what would 
later be called the Formosa Air Battle. The Japanese Navy would lose much of 
its potential air cover in this battle,   a move of much consequence. On December 26th 1944, the Americans won the 
Battle of Leyte and gained total dominance   of both the sea and air around the Philippines. 
Bombing raids to Taiwan would now come from there. The people of Tainan, terrified, would dig 
deep air-raid trenches to protect themselves.   The government began evacuating children living 
in the cities to the countryside for their safety. ## 1945, Escalation The bombing raids escalated. After January 
11th, the US Air Force would launch over   7,700 sorties against Taiwan. They would 
drop 4,800 tons of fragmentation bombs   and over 4,000 tons of napalm on Taiwanese 
targets - mostly air fields and ports. These sorties began as small-scale night-time 
raids. That first attack in January 11 was by   a mere three B-24s on the Pingtung airport. 
B-25s joined afterwards in February 1945   for the first time with a low-altitude 
bombing raid on the Chiayi Airport. The night-time raids turned into day-time 
raids with a February 27th bombing raid   on the Kaohsiung Port. And they diversified from 
purely military targets like air fields and ports   to industrial factories, bridges 
and critical infrastructure. In April, to support American forces now 
fighting in the Japanese island of Okinawa   (they had skipped Taiwan entirely), the 
Fifth Air Force launched another large   scale attack on Taiwanese airfields so to destroy 
Japanese aircraft. This was largely successful. Taiwanese on the ground had no choice but to 
flee the bombings and watch their homes burn   to the ground. The bombers' were to only 
attack military and strategic targets,   but as with all things in the fog of war, 
soldiers did not always follow orders.   Streets, temples, churches, and marked 
hospitals also fell to the bombings. ## The May 1945 Taipei Air Raid The May 31st 1945 Taipei air raid would be the 
biggest and most infamous American bombing of   Taiwan. The 403rd Squadron sent 117 B-24s to 
conduct non-stop bombardment of Taipei from   10 AM to 1 PM. Over 70,000 pounds of bombs were 
dropped on the city with little resistance from   the Japanese. By now the Japanese air force could 
no longer defend Taiwan in any shape or form. Various landmarks were destroyed 
in the raid including the Penglai   Catholic Church and the Tamsui 
Theater. The Governor's mansion   (today the house of the Taiwan President) 
was severely damaged, hit by 2 bombs. One report of the aftermath went as follows: > Arrived at the Taipei Railway station 
in the evening ... many buildings and   shops ... were destroyed by fire 
bombs, without roofs or pavilions.   The streets are completely 
dark without electric lights. Another eyewitness report from the memoirs   of 許曹德 Hsu Tsao-teh / Xu Caode goes as 
follows. Slightly edited for brevity: > I remember that one afternoon, when the wind was 
beautiful, the sound of a huge airplane engine can   suddenly be heard from a distance. The sound was 
very shocking. I was taking a bath with my friends   by the village well. After hearing the ominous 
sound, everyone instinctively rushed to escape. > I immediately approached the side wall 
of the house, crawling on the ground,   and then heard the ear-splitting sound of the 
plane flying into the village, shooting at us   from hundreds of meters above the ground ... I 
felt the American planes diving back and forth,   and I heard screaming as the walls of houses in 
the woods and villages were shot by bullets ... > After the [attack was over], all the 
adults in the village hurried out to   look for their children ... After I 
got up from the ground shuddering,   I soon discovered two of my playmates by 
the well crawling on the ground, bloody and   dying ... The sounds of the planes leaving was 
replaced by the cries of the village's parents The number of deaths that day is disputed. While 
some reports say 3,000 people died in that raid,   a contemporary Japanese report 
prepared by the Air Defense division   showed 759 deaths and 64 more missing. ## The Damage The bombings would continue into the summer, 
but by July 1945 they started to wane.   The final bombing run happened in August 1945 
with eight fighters to attack the Hualien Port.   Then the Japanese surrendered in 
August 15, 1945 and it was over. After the war was over, the Americans dispatched a 
bombing investigations team to Taiwan in December   1945 to review and survey the damage. They 
surveyed the Governor's Office and also traveled   to Keelung, Yilan, Hsinchu, Taichung, Tainan, 
Kaohsiung and Pingtung to make their evaluations. Taiwan at the time was not an industrialized 
society. Most people lived away from the cities.   Bombings were mostly restricted to 
airfields, railways, and industry.   Half of all of Taiwan's trains 
were damaged in some way or form.   198 engines were destroyed. But because 
Taiwan had so few resources by then,   only a fraction of the 358 passenger cars 
or 1,800 freight cars could be repaired. More urgently, over 60% of Taiwan's 
entire electric capacity was destroyed,   including its plant at Sun Moon Lake. 
Its return to form would be the key focus   for a young team of engineers led 
by future Premier Sun Yun-xuan. Check out his video profile 
on this channel to learn more.   Interesting guy. He would later play a huge 
part in guiding Taiwan’s semiconductor industry. 6,100 people were killed in the bombing raids. 
435 were missing and 9,235 were injured.   46,000 homes were destroyed, leaving 277,380 
people homeless. The majority of this damage   was caused by bombs dropped by 
the American Fifth Air Force. As Taiwan's industrial center, 
Kaohsiung was worst affected.   It was the target of 20% of the bombing raids 
with 30% of its homes destroyed or damaged. To help the people recover, the 
United Nations in November 1945   set up an office to host foreign 
experts to assist in the reconstruction   of Taiwan's health, food and industry. A few 
months later in May 1946, the first of 200,000   tons of fertilizer, flour and other relief 
goods from the United Nations started to   arrive - thus helping the Taiwanese to 
start to put their lives together again. World War II killed millions 
and changed the world forever.   Compared to the horrific losses of 
major combatants like the Soviet Union,   Germany, and Mainland China, Taiwan went 
through the war relatively unscathed. Taiwan was a crucial part of the Japanese 
war machine, feeding it agricultural goods   and industrial items. America sought to cut 
those off with "strategic" bombings of that   infrastructure. For the most part, raiders sought 
to restrain themselves to only strategic targets,   but they were not always successful. The 
result was the horrific loss of civilian life. After Taiwan was ceded to the Republic 
of China and Chiang Kai-shek took over,   his regime's history books focused 
heavily on the Second Sino-Japanese War   (literally known in Chinese as the Chinese 
Anti-Japanese War). Which is somewhat fair,   being that it was one of the biggest wars 
in Chinese history and a great victory.   But Taiwan's role in the war and the 
consequences of such were shoved off to the side. Taiwan's bombings are now largely forgotten. 
Forgotten to such an extent that sometimes   Taiwanese people would say that it 
was the Japanese who bombed Tainan,   Kaohsiung and all of those cities. A 
sentiment that I find somewhat baffling.   It is hard to find remainders of this 
memory in the modern buildings of Taipei.   But if you go to Tainan and look for it, you 
will find little reminders of that sad past.