In mid-October 2023, the Japanese company
Canon announced their FPA-1200NZ2C nanoimprint lithography or NIL machine. The technique works like a stamp. Canon says that it can print features suitable
for a 5-nanometer class chip. But how does NIL work? And what is the catch? In this video, let's do a deep dive into nanoimprint
lithography. ## Beginnings Optical lithography is one of the steps of
the semiconductor manufacturing process. It is called optical because we use high-energy
light, a sophisticated optics system, and a light-sensitive chemical called a resist
to stencil a pattern onto a wafer. After that we do etch to make the pattern
permanent. Lithography is not the only step in the process
- the test and metrology guys send me passive-aggressive emails to remind me. But it is frequently seen as having the most
economic value because it often establishes the limit of how well the design performs. Optical lithography is not the only lithography
out there. But going optical offers compelling benefits. Yes, it gives you high resolution and tight
pitches, which are obviously important as we scale down Moore's Law. But other lithographies can give you that
too. For instance, electron beam lithography has
feature sizes below 10 nanometers. But it is slow. Optical lithography can offer throughput - meaning
it can process a whole lot of wafers in a period of time. ASML's optical lithography machines can do
anywhere in the range of 200 to even 300 wafers per hour. And that matters because these machines are
constantly depreciating. These machines are costing the fab-owner money
every second. So the more productive they are, the more
likely the owner can produce profit. ## Invention NIL as a technology and a phrase were first
proposed in 1995 by Professor Stephen Y Chou. He was then at the University of Minnesota. Now he is at Princeton University. In his 1995 paper, Chou describes his team's
setup. First, he applied a layer of plastic about
55 nanometers thick onto a substrate. This serves as our resist. Next, the mask. Chou's team produced the mask from silicon
dioxide on top of a substrate of silicon. The mask was patterned using electron beam
lithography and then etched into the silicon using Reactive Ion Etch. The paper notes that you can make the mask
from metals, dielectrics, or whatever - but it should be properly chosen to avoid sticking
to the plastic resist. Both the mask and the resist are then heated
up to beyond its glass transition temperature - the temperature at which a hard, brittle
plastic turns into more of a flexible, rubbery state. Then press the mask into the plastic at about
1,900 pounds per square inch and hold it there until both items cool below the glass temperature. Then you pull the thing away like a bandage. Voila you have your stenciled chip design. After this, you can go run etch to make that
design permanent. In 1999, Professor Chou founded a startup
company around this technology - Nanonex. ## Inspirations For inspiration, Chou cited "imprint technology
for compression masking of thermoplastic polymers". Essentially, it is where you take a pre-heated
plastic material, put it into a heated mask cavity and then close the mask. The plastic resist is forced into the mask's
shape - ergo the name "compression masking". Most notably, we use it to produce Compact
Discs, or CDs. For those who may not be familiar, CDs are
kind of like an offline Spotify playlist that you cannot edit - taking the physical form
of a small, silver-colored frisbee. My father still uses them to play his 1980s-era
Cantonese music. Researchers have also pointed out several
other inspirations. One notable cousin is LIGA, which is a microfabrication
technique first developed in the early 1980s at the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology in
Germany. The process is very similar. We use traditional lithography via ultraviolet
or synchrotron radiation to pattern and eventually produce a metal mask. We can then stamp it like as explained before. It is used for a variety of things from MEMS
to micro-lens to fabricating micro-sized spinnerets for the textile industry. ## Variant: UV-NIL Other variants of the technique started popping
up. The method that Chou demonstrated in 1995
was referred to as "hot embossing", but an alternative variant of NIL that quickly emerged
a year later was "UV-NIL". It was first presented in November 1996 by
a team at Philips in the Netherlands led by Jan Haisma. UV-NIL has a transparent mask - they call
it a stamp but I will say mask just to be consistent - and a liquid-ish, photosensitive
resin which serves as our resist. Instead of stamping and heating under high
pressure like we do for hot-embossing, we use ultraviolet light. We press the mask into the resist and then
flash ultraviolet rays through the stamp. The resist reacts to the UV light and solidifies. This is all done without much pressure and
at room temperature - so no need to heat up everything like with hot-embossing. UV-NIL offered some advantages over Chou's
original hot-embossing concept. First, we get to use photo-sensitive resist
chemicals, which integrates well with existing semiconductor technologies. Second, using UV to cure the resist frankly
worked better. You have to imprint the mask many times, stamping
across the wafer. UV-curing is faster overall because we get
to skip the cooling process. And heating is likely to cause temperature
distortions in the resist that damage the pattern transfer especially at nanometer scale. ## Variant: SFIL and JFIL Another significant variant is the Step-and-Flash
and Jet-and-Flash nanoimprint lithography. Step-and-Flash was first invented at the Texas
Materials Institute at the University of Texas, Austin some time in the late 1990s, early
2000s. The Semiconductor Research Corporation had
provided early funding and seed support for the work. Step-and-Flash has a transparent mask and
a photo-sensitive resist. The mask has a relief of the chip design engraved
into it, again using traditional semiconductor methods. You position the mask above the resist with
a small gap between them. Then you inject the liquid resist, which then
gets pulled into the gap between the mask and the wafer via the capillary effect. After that, you do the UV light flash to cure
the whole thing. You pull the mask off like you are in a Mission
Impossible movie and go about your day. Later, the UT Austin team reworked the Step-and-Flash
- I just love the double entendre - to the Jet-and-Flash or the JFIL lithography process. Here is how it works. First, you coat the silicon wafer with the
photosensitive resist. This is done using an inkjet device to deposit
very small droplets - picoliters, they say! - of said resist onto the wafer. These droplets are arranged in a way to accommodate
the chip's design patterns. You can then align the transparent mask over
the wafer using those droplets. Then you use air pressure to bend the mask
in such a way that it makes contact with the wafer at the middle. You continue to lay the rest of the mask from
the middle outwards. Do it carefully to avoid making bubbles but
also quickly because every second costs money. After that, you go about the UV flash to cure
the resist and transfer over the pattern. After that is done, you separate the two in
a way that does not shear the mask. From there on, you can go into the etch processes. In 2001, two UT Austin professors - S.V. Sreenivasan and C. Grant Willson - founded
a company to license this technology from the university and commercialize it - Molecular
Imprints, Inc. ## Entering the Roadmap NIL offered significant upsides as compared
to photolithography. For one thing, there is no need for a fancy
exposure tool. The optics system with super-flat mirrors
made with multiple atomic layers of molybdenum and beryllium? No need for that. The multi-million dollar EUV light source
where we have to hit a tin droplet with a laser twice? Toss it into the trash! You can use simple mercury arc lamps. Such lamps were leading edge in the 1960s! We also get to skip one of the lithography
steps - the post-exposure bake. After the wafer goes through the UV light,
we cook it for some time to solidify the resist. With NIL, we already did this, so we don't
have to do it now. On the basis of these upsides, Chou, Molecular
Insights and other supporters of NIL proposed for it to be included into the semiconductor
industry's roadmaps for process nodes below 50-nanometers. They held it as a possible alternative or
next-generation successor to DUV lithography, which was then widely adopted by the industry. In 2003, the MIT Technology Review named NIL
as one of the "ten emerging technologies to change the world". And then very significantly, it appeared on
the International Roadmap for Semiconductors as a possible next-generation lithography
candidate for the 22 nanometer node. Other candidates included 157 nanometer lithography,
EUV, Electron projection, and X-ray Projection. So on. This was an incredible sign of confidence
that NIL really can enter the semiconductor supply chain in a major way. Several startups joined Nanonex and Molecular
Imprints in the race to commercialize their variant of the technology. These included Obdurate, and EV Group. In the end, however, the industry decided
to stick with immersion lithography for that node. And later on, they consolidated on EUV as
the next generation lithography. NIL did not make it to the final rounds. What happened to NIL? There were a number of serious challenges. Let us go through some of them. ## The Mask The quality of the mask is the single biggest
success factor for NIL. The mask has to be a 1-to-1 perfect replica
of the chip design. This is different from photolithography, where
you can make the masks a bit larger than the real chip. Because you use the lens to optically shrink
the design down by some amount. Can't do that with NIL. So we have to produce near perfect masks as
well as ways to inspect them for possible defects. This is difficult, since we talking about
features just 10-20 nanometers large. EUV struggled with this in a major way. At great cost, they managed to develop actinic
inspection tools that used production-grade EUV light to find mask defects. These have yet to be fully developed for NIL. Based on these factors, we should expect these
masks to cost a lot of money. Leading edge semiconductor mask sets can cost
tens of millions of dollars. ## Mask Damage This high cost leads right into our second
major issue - damage to the mask. Early on in the 1960s, the industry used contact
lithography or contact printing to transfer the chip design. You press the mask onto the wafer and light
it up. The big drawback with this was that hard particles
and the like on the wafer can get onto the mask and cause permanent damage to it. This sucks. Not only because the masks themselves are
expensive, but also because damaged masks print defects onto the wafers. These types of errors are called "repeaters"
and strike fear into the hearts of fab operators. And it can happen with NIL too. To deal with this, Molecular decided to do
what they called "Template Replication". This is where you can use a single master
mask to make many cheaper clones - maybe a hundred or so. These clones are used for a certain lifetime
and then discarded. ## Image Transfer One of the major early issues with nanoimprint
had to do with the image transfer. There were times when the mask's design did
not transfer to the resist - leaving defects. For instance, the resist might not properly
fill the mask's grooves and trenches - making bubbles. This is particularly the case if the design
is full of large and irregular features. This is called a "non-fill" defect. Or when you are pulling the mask off the resist,
you will create shear forces that damage the transferred pattern, tearing or hurting the
lines. These are called "separation defects". There is also a mechanical challenge with
overlay. Molecular Imprints - due to the defect issue
- chose to make a smaller, industry-sized mask. Then built their machine to "step across"
the wafer using that mask like with traditional photolithography machines. In order to be competitive with photolithography,
you have to position and lay down the stamp very quickly but with nanometer accuracy. You don't want to accidentally overlay one
design with another. Here’s why. With photolithography, if you make an overlay
error, you can essentially go back and flash the wafer again. But with NIL you don't have that because you
already baked the resist. You have to take the wafer out and scratch
off the resist before trying again. This obviously very intensely raises the cost
of error. Here was a question I was thinking when I
read this. So why not just stamp the whole wafer all
at once? This had been one of the great dreams for
NIL's potential. Unfortunately, a larger field like that had
serious defect and quality control issues that were too hard to solve with current resources. ## Business Issues The final issues with NIL had to do with economics. There was a major throughput issue. As I mentioned, some of ASML's fastest machines
can handle 200-300 wafers per hour. At the higher end of the range, that is five
wafers every minute. NIL's steps make it challenging to do it that
fast. Simply because we are dealing with liquids
and semi-liquids. You can try having multiple stations working
in concert, but NIL can be tough to parallelize. Now a wafer-per-hour number is not the end-all,
be-all. We do need to account for the cost of the
machine. A slower machine is not a gamebreaker if it
is also significantly cheaper, but the headlining numbers do matter. Finally but perhaps most significantly, the
people backing NIL did not have the resources that the other next-generation candidates
had. Next generation candidates like EUV or electron
projection had big, well-known corporations supporting them. And with that, millions of dollars and hundreds
of really smart people solving issues and problems associated with the technology. Molecular Imprints raised at least $60-70
million from VC, industry, and government. But on the whole, NIL development was being
handled by startups, which negatively affected its reputation. ## Other Applications So Nanoimprint lithography failed to enter
the mainline semiconductor industry back then, but it was not a failure. In the 2010s, it caught the interest of the
magnetic tape industry for something they are working on: Patterned media. Patterned Media, or Bit Patterned Media, is
a potential future hard drive technology. Basically, it changes how hard drives store
data. Hard drives back then stored data using hundreds
of magnetic grains continuously spread across the surface of the hard drive's disk, or platter. A bit is represented by a cluster of grains
- maybe 20 to 30. Patterned media switches it up to create magnetic
"islands" just a dozen or so nanometers large. Each island contains 1 bit. We need to use lithography to deposit these
islands - which the industry had never done before. Demos implied that NIL can be good here and
it is one of their core strategies. However, the hard drive industry ultimately
used technologies like perpendicular magnetic recording, and later Heat Assisted Magnetic
Recording. Patterned Media remains on the roadmaps eventually
down the line, however, so NIL still has a chance. Other non-semiconductor applications for the
technology included optical devices, biotech and MEMS. We will set discussion of those aside for
another day. ## Canon Nevertheless, Molecular Imprints continued
solving problems and finishing their stepper tools. In late 2010, they shipped their first tool
- the Imprio500 J-FIL, with a throughput of about 20 wafers per hour. At some point, it seems like they struck a
partnership with Canon to build this stepper for high volume. Later in 2014, Canon acquired Molecular Imprints
and made them the foundation of their Canon Nanotechnologies division. Together, they continued working on the machine. They have been presenting the results of their
work. In 2017, they reported on their overlay tools
and progress in speeding up the process - with throughput approaching 80 wafers per hour. To deal with the mask damage issues, Molecular
and Canon developed a template replication tool - the FPA-1100-NR2 - which they see as
a key enabling technology for NIL. The eventual long term goal is that each mask
"clone" lasts for 1,000 wafer runs or more. A 2019 report says that one customer Toshiba
Memory has gotten to about 340 runs. To deal with the alignment challenges, they
produced a very complicated system that is ... pretty intense. They peer through the mask - which is transparent
- to align it using marks on the wafer. This way, they can align at a precision of
1 nanometer. Just for context. 1 nanometer is 10 atoms wide, on average. To deal with the defect issue, Canon has implemented
systems to keep particles away from the masks. This includes high performance filters and
an "air curtain" to direct particles away from the mask and resist. Eventually, they must have gotten it to a
point where they felt comfortable taking it to the next level. Makes sense, Canon has been working on it
for nearly a decade now. ## Conclusion So in conclusion, can nanoimprint lithography
challenge EUV and traditional photolithography? Not in the immediate term, but most people
know that. Canon wants to eventually get there but right
now they recognize that there are big problems - particularly with the defect issue. So they are going to start slow. Right now, their strategy is to first target
the semiconductor memory industry - namely the flash memory industry. Those guys still need very small feature sizes
- 15 nanometers or smaller. But memory products have more redundant structures,
which are easier to imprint. They are also more forgiving of defects. For the logic-makers, I think Canon is going
to eventually pitch a hybrid-approach. Lots of their documentation and papers adopt
industry-wide standards, emphasizing the idea of integration into process flows alongside
photolithography. I think that’s the right approach. I can easily see a logic fab using NIL for
a few special particular layers or chip types someday down the line. We shall see how long before that happens.