(box thumping) - Hey guys, this is Austin. And welcome to a very special
episode of Mystery Tech what. Austin's Mystery Tech Wardrobe. (Austin laughing) Why is this Xbox? What, it's a what (laughing) - [Ken] So our friends at Microsoft got you the limited edition Xbox Onesie. - Why is it triple XXXL? Uh, I've got. (zipper sliding)
(light-hearted guitar music) All right so now it's time
to complete our adventure into Xbox Mystery Tech. (light-hearted guitar music) - [Matt] Oh no, oh no. - Okay it's fine. (plastic thud) Hey guys, this is Austin.
(plastic tapping) Oh. So this my friends, is a box from PITAKA. Now you might know PITAKA from a certain controversy
a couple months ago, regarding a case, some beef perhaps. So let's see what they've sent over. It's a very nice box I gotta say. It's very, very nice. Okay, that's a lot of stuff, all right. Wait.
(book thumping desk) Ken, did PITAKA pay you
to put this in here? - [Ken] No? - I smell shenanigans. Why is there a giant box of PITAKA stuff on my desk right now? - [Ken] 'Cause they wanted it out of your good graces?
(zipper sliding) - So I'm just gonna take a second and point out that I am currently dailying a Latercase. Just so the record shows. - [Matt] Watch out,
someone is going to make a blog post about you. - That's fine. Everyone should know where
my true allegiance lies. (zipping sliding) With the bald Canadian himself. (Austin laughing) - [Ken] Oh, what is that? - Magnetic wall-mount
organizer wireless charger. So you mount this to your wall and you stick your keys onto it, and you have two wireless chargers. So if you have a magnetic
case like one of these it'll go like. (Ken laughing) - [Ken] How do you function daily? - All right let's see, let's see what we get
with the PITAKA case. I assume it's gonna be very similar to what I already know. That looks pretty similar. - [Ken] The features are
probably a little different. - Yeah I think the Latercase actually feels a little bit better. It feels a little bit more textured. This one feels a little
more rubbery and smooth. I can say that I'm pretty
happy with the Latercase. This is fine but. I mean there's only so many
ways you can make a case for a phone. - [Ken] Words of wisdom by Austin Evans. - Hey you know it's true. - [Ken] It is true. - Okay, so you've given me a
large selection of AAA and AA batteries as
well as a screw driver. (tedious music) Ken, this is going to be bad. This is going to be very not good. I'm gonna open what I am
90% sure is a Roboraptor. There's no other reason you'd give me this number of weird batteries. Like three of these
are for the Roboraptor, three of these are for the controller, here's my little screw driver
because toys are really annoying and they have little
like screw driver thing on it. Because this box is so large,
it means this is going to be a Megaraptor, which I'm
going to hate much, much more than any of the other Roboraptors that have come through the doors. Ken am I right right now? - [Ken] Uh uh uh? - You have Roboraptor right there. Why would you have? See, see. Wait, this is an actual Roboraptor? Not like a knock off? It's literally Roboraptor,
but twice as big and gray. - [Matt] Do you wanna know
how much you paid for this? - How much is Roboraptor X? - [Matt] Do you wanna take a guess? - A $100? - [Matt] $140. (tedious music) - [Ken] Cheaper than me and Matt. Just saying. - Get it. Yeah. (Roboraptor roaring) (Austin laughing) - [Ken] Austin. - I have never seen Roboraptor do half the things he's doing right now. What is going on? Oh okay. All right, well this
one's alive and angry. Roboraptor, hmm? Yeah, ah. Three, two, one. (bell dinging) Roboraptor is coming on strong. He's coming up, oh but X is getting some shots
in coming in from behind. Smacking him on the tail. Doesn't seem like Roboraptor X minds, but however Roboraptor oh. (Austin screaming) Roboraptor has fa-- Okay, you know what? This is a close one. Cause Roboraptor did fall of first. However Roboraptor X also fell off. I need to find a better use of my time. (Roboraptor squeaking) (crashing sound) (laughing) - [Matt] He waved goodbye. (cheerful music) - Chord. Your music, just better. Well, that seems like
quite the lofty claim. Mojo the ultimate DAC headphone amplifier for your smartphone. Ken? - [Ken] Hm? - How much was the Mojo chord? (cheerful music) - [Matt] Whoa. $400. - [Ken] $400 as the man said. Hey it was $500 at some point so I got you a really good deal. - So Ken you know when
we had that conversation about let's make Mystery
Tech better in 2020. Let's get bigger budgets. The bigger budgets don't
mean just spending more money on the same stupid bull beep. - [Ken] I mean. - All right. This actually does feel very premium. It's very metally. It also feels pretty heavy. So for reference I am going
to be using the BGVP DMG headphones from Mystery Tech
like three or four moths ago. These had been my dailies and
they actually do sound really good even without a proper amp and DAC. However they should be
high enough quality that if this thing is actually legit and works, I'll be able to tell a difference. (chilled music) So like, I guess the only thing
that really jumps out to me here is that, while it's good. Is it worth this sort of trade off? Even if you take up away the fact that I have to plug this thing in. Once it's charged up keeping
some kind of USB dongle with you just seems like
it's a little bit much. What are you doing? (box thumping) Oh.
(Austin laughing) All right. So this is with Drop. How much were these? - [Ken] 200. - $200 okay. The Ken spends lots of
money on headphones, episode continues. Okay, let's see what we've got here. Ooh. This looks nice. Aw damn. Oh so are these the, what are they? The planar magnets? Oh. So the first thing I'll say is. These are incredibly open headphones. Like I mean I can hear just
as well with or without them. That's actually kind of interesting. Let me turn this volume way
down so I don't become deaf. Now to be fair these are not
broken in or warmed up at all. ♪ What's going on ♪ ♪ Can you take me with ♪ Oh Jesus. Wow, that's good. I feel like my head is in the middle of the concert right now. ('All My Friends' by Madeon plays) Woo. All right, these are very good. - [Matt] Yeah, they're great speakers. - What? - [Matt] I said, "they're great speakers." - Yeah that's pretty loud. Let me try to be objective for a second. I'm gonna unplug all this stuff. We're gonna plug this directly in. We're gonna see exactly what happens. (upbeat music) Is that all I've got? Okay yeah no. No, like that's at full volume barely enough for me to
consider worth listening to. That's, no. So I think with headphones
like this, it's really clear. You're gonna need something
with some power to drive it. Now do you need to spend
$400+ on this little DAC? Probably not. You could probably get away with something that's significantly cheaper. However, with what I've
got in front of me. A phone, a DAC, an incredible
pair of headphones. This is a special, special experience. And I hope that you can take me earnestly considering that I am wearing
a Xbox onesie right now. But, it's good. Just imagine me not
wearing this right now. (Matt laughing) Thank you very much. (box thumping) All right. So, we have a very
mysterious looking box here. None of this says what this thing is. I guess they assume that
when you buy something you know what you've bought. Smart warmer and cooler. Wait, I see Qi on one
side and hot surface. Is this like some like wireless
charger slash drink warmer. - [Ken] You are a 100% correct. - Oh really? All right so it's blue right now. - [Matt] That's cold. - [Ken] Yes. - [Austin] So we take a
look with the thermal. What we can see is, yeah
I mean that's literally four degrees Celsius. You can see there's a huge
difference between the cable which is like 28 and this
which is essentially freezing. Oh wow, dude look at this. So you can see that the
top of it is ice cold but this is where all
the heat's coming out. Like you can see there's
like a streak of it all across the table. Now for reference our can
of soda is 21 degrees, 20 degrees, something like that. - [Ken] That came out of
a box, not the fridge. - Okay, so while my can is being chilled. I'm going to charge my phone . Oh look at that. Neatly works. So, I can charge my phone,
I can cool my drink or alternatively I could heat my drink. So after about thirty seconds or so this went from being below
freezing to 47, 48 degrees. So let's put some water on
it and see what happens. So right now the water
is 20 degrees or so. Okay, so let's give it a moment and see exactly how warm we can get this. Again, based on my thermal camera we're about 50 degrees
Celsius on the bottom. So that's a 120, 130
degrees, something like that. I don't know what to say. It's a Mystery Tech
item, that doesn't suck. It's something I can say
actually this is cool and legit. I can't make fun of it. I can't be like oh ha-ha Ken
wasted money blah-blah-blah. No, this is actually cool. I didn't expect that. I thought it was going to be lame. I'm impressed. - [Ken] To be fair, I thought so too but we are all surprised in life
and this is one of those. - [Matt] Well, let us rectify that. - [Ken] Oh, we will rectify that. - Woo, that one has a
nice little bounce on it. Well this is already open. - [Matt] Sometimes we need
to know what's actually in the Mystery Tech before you do. - Why did you get an LED. Didn't we already do an LED
backpack like two years ago on Mystery Tech? - [Ken] No, that was a speaker. - Oh so we have a USB cable which I assume goes like a battery bank. And I guess room for like
a laptop or your soul. And that's it. Oh, oh, oh. Oh it went away. (Austin laughing) Look at that. Keeps going away. - [Matt] I don't know why it's going away? (beeping) - So now that we have properly
configured our LED backpack. Matt would you please come do the honors. - [Matt] What? - Just come. - [Matt] What am I doing? - Just come here.
- [Matt] Alright. Just put the backpack on. So, your task now is to wear
this backpack all CES long. - All CES? - You have to advertise This Is. Up and down the wonderful
streets of Las Vegas. Otherwise we're going
to cancel the channel. (upbeat music) Look, it's Matt in the wild. (slapping) (laughing) It hasn't broken yet. - Subscribe to This Is. (slapping) - [Austin] Hi Matt. It wasn't me this time. - Every time you guys hit this, I die a little bit on the inside. - [Jimmy] It's just so slappy.