- Hello, my friends, and welcome to a $500 gaming PC tutorial. Now, this is something
that I used to do a lot, and if you're a long time
subscriber to the channel, thank you. But also, if you're not, this is a way where I can kind of show you some of the best deals on gaming PCs, but more importantly, how
my thought process goes in actually picking these components, putting them together, and
showing you what kind of PC you can get yourself for 500 bucks. So for this video, I'm going to be using Amazon to do all of my ordering, mostly because not only
can I put those links in the description for
you, but on top of that, hopefully you have access to Amazon, unlike Micro Center, which I love, but obviously not everyone
has a Micro Center. Now, since the last time
I did a budget build, a lot of things have changed,
mostly for the better. There are a lot of new
components like always, but importantly the chip
shortage, the GPU shortage, a lot of that has not gone but a lot of things have
returned back to normal, which means that for 500 bucks, I'm hopeful I can actually
build a pretty decent PC. I'm actually gonna do
this in a different way than I normally would. I'm gonna look for graphics
cards, because at $500, I should be able to afford
a low-end graphics card. Now, a graphics card is typically where you wanna spend the most money. Not always depending on what you're doing, but for a gaming PC,
putting the the max value on the graphics card is
usually your right move. I'm probably gonna be limited to $200 at the absolute most for my GPU. I'll see what AMD options are. So this is a 6600. The problem is if I
spend 250 bucks on this, the rest of my system is gonna
be just, like, garbage town, which is not necessarily
always a bad idea. Like, I could go ultra budget on it, but the problem is, with 250 bucks, I'm gonna have to get like
an incredibly cheap case, incredibly cheap board. Like, that's probably
not gonna be the move. Okay, how about a 6400? 144 bucks. Okay. This is not a good
graphics card, I will say, but I'm actually gonna leave this open just as a potential. So this initial phase is all about just finding
interesting prices, anything that jumps out to me, like immediately here's
something that's much better. There's an MSI 6500 XT. My gut is this is the graphics
card I'm gonna go with. It's actually not always incredibly easy to figure out what's best, right? Now, if you're following this tutorial, you're just gonna click on all the links in the description, easy. But when I'm actually trying to go through and do my research, I
like to actually make sure that I'm trying to get the best stuff. 'Cause sometimes you might
find a gem that's hidden or you'll find some absolute garbage, which is a lot of what
I'm seeing right now. I think I've got enough options here. I really wanna knock out the $120 580. I don't trust AISURIX, and I don't want to
recommend you to do the same. And then the XFX, the
6400, it's only $10 less. It's low profile, I just don't trust it so we're just gonna knock that out, too. So I've only got two graphics
cards here, so 165 and 210. $165 is probably about
the right amount of money to spend on my GPU. This should be able to play
at 1080P, and importantly, this won't burn my whole budget so I can actually afford to
get a somewhat decent CPU. And if I spend like 200
bucks on this graphics card, I'm gonna have to be very conservative with the rest of my build. If you're ever in doubt, one
of the things you can do, and while you need to take this with a bit of a grain of salt, is just do a search on the two
graphics cards side-by-side. So looking at this,
which is UserBenchmark, I don't know how much I'm gonna trust it, but looking at the 1650
versus the 6650-XT, the 6650-XT here seems like it is
significantly more powerful. And mind you, I typically try
to use more reputable sources like AnandTech and Tom's
Hardware and whatnot, but I feel confident
the 6500-XT is the move. I'm gonna add that
(cash register chimes) to my cart. So, with that chosen, my next big decision is going to be on Intel versus AMD on the CPU side. This decision is kind of tricky, honestly. So one of the things I'm leaning toward would be the Core i3. Now, this is 13th gen. It's gonna have great gaming performance, but where it's gonna
fall a little bit flat is it's only a quad core processor. And I do think that this is gonna be a little bit limited in the long-term. I'm going a little bit cheaper on my CPU than I think I could, also partially because I just don't know what I'm gonna spend for
the rest of the build. Right now, though, I'm leaning
toward this Ryzen 5 5500. But, importantly, this is only $98, and I know that if we go with this, we can pick up a cheap AM4 motherboard for hopefully 60, 70 bucks
that'll completely do the job, and at that point we're gonna be sitting on an actually decent budget to make sure we've got
a well-rounded system. So, with our CPU and our GPU in the cart, we've spent 262.99 of our $500 budget, which is actually a
pretty reasonable number. I actually could have maybe
spent a little bit more here, but based on the options that I've got, I feel pretty good about that. Once you've chosen your CPU, the natural next step is
to choose the motherboard. Now, because we've got
the 5500 in our cart, we need to pick an AM4 motherboard that's specifically going to support that. So, I'm just gonna pull
up that AM4 motherboard. I'm gonna look for most likely an A320 'cause those are the cheapest, but a B450 may also be the move. So there's an ASRock board for 70 bucks, but it does specifically call out support Ryzen 5000 and 5000 G-Series. Man, do I actually do this though? 70 bucks is a really good deal. It's a super basic board,
but this is a $500 system. Like, I gotta save the money when I can. (cash register chimes)
We're now at $333, still a good amount of budget. I'm not too worried. The next thing I'll do is go for RAM. So I should be able to
easily afford 16 gigs. So I can go Corsair for $48, Silicon Power for $35. That's very cheap. It might be tempting to just grab a couple of random sticks of RAM, but I do want to at least
make sure I'm buying a kit. So 16 gigs even on a $500 system is pretty much the minimum, right? Like you shouldn't be buying any computer with eight gigs of RAM in 2023. (clears throat) MacBook Air.
(trumpet note) I normally wouldn't recommend this, but I actually, I think I'm gonna go with the Silicon Power RAM. Maybe not the greatest
decision in my life. I think it's worth making. I think this is should be fine. The parts I have left are my power supply, my SSD, and my case. And with $130 to play with, I'm gonna have to go
kind of cheap on my SSD. In fact, I'm actually go with my SSD now. The Acclamator for $22. I'm not gonna do that. I would maybe spend a little bit more to get a brand on your SSD, especially because it's
not really gonna be that much more expensive. When it comes to purchasing an SSD, 35 bucks for 500 gig is a no-brainer. If I wanna go down to 250
gig, I'm only saving $6. It doesn't make sense,
so 500 gig, no-brainer, add that to cart,
(cash register chimes) and that puts us right over $400. Don't cheap out on your power supply. Is what I normally say,
do as I say, not as I do. I'm gonna get a cheaper power supply, but I'm mostly gonna go with this one because I have bought
probably a half dozen of these at this point over the years. And while they're not the
most high quality supplies, importantly they work
and they don't explode. What more can you ask for,
especially for 35 bucks? You know what, now that
I'm actually saying it, we got $60 left, a perfect amount for
actually a decent case. We can actually get a
good case for 60 bucks. When it comes to picking a case, there are two main choices here. So there's a name brand
case or a cheapo case. Usually the difference, in fact, it's exactly the difference that I've got to choose from
here is quality versus RGB. It's pretty much as simple as that. And I think I'm gonna recommend going with the actual name brand case, not only because it does
have the three fans, but also I trust that the
build quality's gonna be better and I trust that it's gonna be a little bit easier to build in, whereas some of the
cheaper cases sometimes will have like literal, like,
sharp edges and whatnot. It's totally up to you. There's no bad choice between these two, but for me, I'm gonna go with the Zalman. I add that to my cart
(cash register chimes) and my total is $500.32. - [Ken] Wow, you went over. Your budget! - All right, let me go through my cart. So, I've got an AMD Ryzen 5 5500. I've got an MSI Radeon RX 6500 XT, the bulk of my budget right there, the ASRock A520M-HDV motherboard. I don't feel super strong about it but I do think that is
probably our best option. 16 gigs of Silicon Power DDR4, a 500 gig WD Blue SSD, 500-watt Thermaltake power
supply and a Zalman S3 case. All right, my friends, I'm going to order these components now and I will see you in
a moment for the build and test of the Boson 5.0. (upbeat music) All right, my friends, let
us build a $500 gaming PC. Today, I'm gonna do a
speed run of this thing, more so to see exactly how well it works and what kind of value you're
getting for a $500 budget. Now, if you've seen
any of my PC tutorials, you know that my favorite thing to do is always to open up the systems, but especially with this case, since I've never built inside of it, just to take a look and see if there's anything that jumps out. It looks very standard, which standard's not a bad thing, right? This looks standard as in
like what high-end cases are asking for nowadays. All right, we'll see what is inside. Well, I will say we did
choose the acrylic side panel instead of the tempered glass. Yeah, it's gonna look fine. We saved a few bucks there, but other than that, the interior of this case
actually looks quite nice. So you do have a little basement where you can hide your power supply and kind of keep some
cables nice and neat. We have two USB 2.0 and one USB 3. I can't really complain at this price. Maybe a little be nice
to have an extra USB 3 or a USB-C, but it's fine, it's fine. So taking a close look at the motherboard, you'll see that we've got
a wide selection of I/O, including PS2-
- Whoa! Is that-
- VGA- - Woo!
- and HDMI and DVI. - [Ken] Wow, this
was made for dinosaurs. - This is a quite low-end motherboard, but when you're building
yourself a $500 gaming PC, you gotta cut corners,
and I think this is one that I'm pretty okay with cutting. The fact that I can
confidently go out on Amazon, spend 30 minutes looking for parts and come back with a $500 system that I can be very like
happy with, it's nice. Oh, you know what the problem's gonna be when everyone's running
chatbots on their GPUs and then that ruins pricing again. Premium wraith thermal solution. I dunno how premium it is, but it's better than
an Intel stock cooler. Goodbye, little CPU. I hope you enjoyed your two seconds of air before you got brutally crushed. (screwdriver clicks) Boy, I love these noises so much. Oh no, did they get? Oh man. - Yeah, it's meant so-
- It's blister packed. - [Ken] kids couldn't open it. - 'Kay, this wasn't called for. What kind of [unintelligible] sends a blister pack? You ever heard the phrase "party in the front, "naked in the back?" (Ken laughs) - [Ken] Oh my god. - I will say while the WD
Blue is a high quality, very reasonable SSD, it is quite blue, which does stand out a little
bit in our case, I will say. - [Ken] Again, for a $500 game PC- - Yeah, it looked-
- can you really complain? - No, I can't complain. Look, when you're building
a budget gaming PC, the way you spend your money
is incredibly important. A few dollars here and a few dollars there adds up really quickly. I think it's one of those things
where when you're building and you get excited about your components, you can wildly overspend very quickly, but when you really keep
yourself to a firm budget it just means that, I don't wanna say you're gonna have to corner cut, but you have to take
some aggressive apexes on your way to the finish line. Alrighty, my friends,
let's see if the Boson 5.0 wants to cooperate and work first try. (upbeat music) Let's see if Boson 5.0 wants
to work on the second try now that I've gotten that outta my system. Did I forget to plug in it? - [Ken] Rookie mistake. - Here's the thing, I
literally looked back here, and from this angle it
looked like it was on. All right, take two. Wow, that's actually like proper quiet. Literally with no side panels on, I can barely even hear that. Yes, yes, yes. Let's go. Alright, so importantly,
we are up and running. For this, I'm going to
fast forward a little bit through the actual setup process. The main things to do here
is anytime I build a system, I always like to make sure that the BIOS is fully up to date, so I'll go on the ASRock website, download the most recent BIOS
for this board, flash that, and then I'll install Windows
and I'll be right back to see what the performance
of our Boson 5.0 is like. I also should probably put
the side panels back on. - [Ken] And also don't hit it. The metal is so thin.
(metal clicks) - Behold, my friends, the Boson 5.0. With a $500 budget, I'm really happy, especially with the
performance of this system. And I've already taken
the time to tweak it, so now that we have Windows
and all our drivers installed, I've changed the memory
speed to the full XMP as well as we've got Resizable BAR and able to give us just that little bit of extra performance that you get by using an AMD CPU and an AMD GPU. A very fair question is why I chose to use the Radeon 6500-XT. This is a budget GPU, which
is pretty good for gaming but is very lacking in pretty
much every other category. Now, for a $500 budget, to
me this is the right move, because if you look at something
like the NVIDIA equivalent, which would be a 1660 Super, mind you, this is a more powerful GPU, but it is over $100 more expensive. If you've got an extra $100, that's a better option, full stop. It's gonna be much better
for streaming especially. But the downside here is that
if you want to build a system in this kind of category, you
have to make some choices. You have to make some sacrifices in some areas versus others. And for this, I'm prioritizing
gaming performance, not streaming, not everything else. Because look, if I wanna
go with the NVIDIA GPU, I could do that, and then
I'm gonna be building in a cardboard box with eight gigs of RAM with a tiny little SSD. Like, I have to make so
many other compromises with the system. - I couldn't afford a present this year, so I got you this box. - If you're gonna build yourself
a seven or $800 gaming PC, by all means go ahead, but once you start going
down that slippery slope of getting outside your budget, you can find yourself spending
an insane amount of money. Of course, there's definitely an argument that you could just buy
yourself an Xbox Series S and get similar-ish performance,
but the downside there is that you've got yourself
the limitations of a console. This system is fully capable of playing pretty much
every PC game out there. You might not be crushing
it at 4K Ultra settings but you're gonna be able
to play almost anything, and I think that that's
gonna actually stay true for quite a while because this is based on the same RDNA 2 architecture
of the most recent series of consoles between PS5
Series X and Series S. The fact that you've
got ray tracing support and the fact that this is
actually broadly equivalent to the Xbox Series S when it
comes to graphics horsepower. Sure, the GPU is a little bit smaller so it's got fewer CUs to work with, but it is running at a
much higher clock speed, meaning that as long
as games are coming out for the Series S, odds are
you'll probably be able to play them with the Boson 5.0. So to give you a little bit of an idea of the performance of the system, I'm gonna run a quick
3DMark Time Spy benchmark. Look at this. Look how nice this looks. And our score is 5,299. Pretty solid. So basically what we've
got here is a system which punches above its
weight when it comes to gaming and maybe leaves some streaming and some extra goodies on the table. Look, we're not gonna be streaming, we're not gonna be doing extra stuff. We're gamers. We game and we have enough
RAM for Discord and Chrome. Okay, well, no one has
enough RAM for Chrome, but, you know, take what you can get. 10,351, so a very respectable score for the Ryzen 5 5500 CPU. It's funny, because at this $500 budget, we've actually got two weird choices. Both our CPU and GPU are very unusual, but while they both have some limitations, I think those limitations actually work really well together. So this Ryzen 5 5500 was
originally a laptop CPU that they just brought
out for desktop use, so it has fewer PCI lanes
for the graphics card, but guess what? Our GPU has fewer PCI lanes as well, so it just goes together like PB and J. Actually, that's pretty accurate. It's easy to make fun of "Fortnite" as a game that's just for kids, but the tech behind it
is incredibly powerful. So recently there was a patch
for the next gen consoles, although it's not quite fully
implemented on the Series S, that enables things like ray tracing. You've got things like Nanite, There's a lot of stuff here that will allow you to get a
huge leap in visual quality. And so I'm gonna just try to turn it on. This is probably not
going to work really well, but I'm just curious to
see pushing the limits of the performance of the system, because what I've turned on here simply would not be working
on a lower end NVIDIA GPU. Realistically, if this
is what you're doing, you should be turning
some of this stuff off, 'cause again, this is a $500 gaming PC, but if I can get anywhere
near a usable frame rate, this will actually be a
pretty significant step up over what you would get on a Series S and I will definitely take that. So, how about 8FPS? I'm going maybe turn my
settings down just a little bit. I got a little ambitious. We're gonna go to medium settings. Look at that. Oh, that's much more like it. Now we're up to 60FPS, so
this was just 1080P medium. That is so much better. I'm gonna just say straight up, "Fortnite's" super
duper playable at 1080P. Ah, ooh. - [Ken] Austin! It works. - I mean, oh, poop. "Forza", "Forza", "Forza" I'm getting 90FPS. Oh, what? Playing "Forza Horizon 5". This is a game which is very
well optimized for Xbox, of course, which also means
it's really well optimized for this hardware, because
again, what I've built here is not that weird. (Ken laughs) (Austin clears throat) While I might be running a
little bit low on video memory, it's fine, 'cause guess what? It's running at 100FPS. (clears throat) As I was saying, this game
is very well optimized, not only for the Xboxes, but importantly for the RDNA
graphics and the Ryzen CPU, which means that, I won't
think you should expect 100FPS in all games, but running
in 1080P medium settings, this is 100% playable. I mean 80, 90FPS, even wanna
get into more busy areas, that's dope. It has been a long time
since I've been able to in good faith recommend
a $500 gaming PC build. But with this Boson 5.0,
it checks all the boxes. If you want a 1080P gaming PC, if you wanna get yourself
into PC gaming in general, this is an excellent first step. Thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe. Check out the PC tutorial
if you wanna know how to actually put the system together, and all the links I used will be in the description of this video. ♪ I love you ♪ ♪ You love me ♪ ♪ Committing tax fraud is a felony ♪ ♪ Do, do, do, do, do, do, da, da, da, da ♪