- Why, hello there, and welcome to the happiest
place on earth, Micro Center. So what better thing to
do on a beautiful morning than build ourselves a
back to school gaming PC. - Welcome back to school. - [Austin] Well, thank you. Do you happen to have any
PC components available at very reasonable pricing? - Well, it happens to be
what we specialize in. (both laughing loudly) - Obviously, we got to go to the RGB land. You guys do have Ryzen 5 5600Xs. These are what, like 280 bucks? - Just about. - [Austin] This definitely
seems like what we should really build the system around. Now for boards, do you have anything ITX? - Well, we should have
plenty of options, B550. - So, we've actually
used this in the past. One of the nice things about
pretty much all ITX boards is that they do have Wi-Fi already built-in, which especially in a dorm is probably gonna be pretty helpful. - I doubt you'll have wired if I'm honest. So we have things like the NZXT H210i. - So, with a smaller
case, like the NZXT H210i, I think I'll be in fairly good
shape as far as the chassis. It looks nice, almost like... - Are you gonna say it looks nice as me? Were you trying to compliment me there? - [Austin] That's what I was trying to do, but I didn't want your head
to get too big, all right. - Oh, wow. (laughs loudly) - [Austin] You're like,
I'm not opening the store for you early anymore. - Yeah, no, not anymore. You're gonna have to shop
here like the rest of them. (both laughing) - So for memory, for a system like this
16 gigs really should be all that we need. You know, it's funny, this
is such an easier experience when I'm not here with Ken and Matt. - It's the fastest
experience we've had to date, I gotta be honest with you. ♪ Do do do do do do. ♪ - I've always had a lot
of luck with Samsung SSDs and specifically, the 980 and the 980 Pro. But because we're trying to do something, that's on at least somewhat of a budget, I think the standard 980
is gonna make a lot sense. Hey, look! It's a 980, just on cue. You know what your next trip
to Micro Center could use? A free pair of Bluetooth headphones. All you need to do is check out
the link in the description, throw in your email address, and you will be emailed an in-store coupon to pick up a pair of headphones,
just like this for free. So, what are you waiting for? Why my voice just cracked? Because I'm so excited about the deal. And speaking of the deals, you can check out the
link in the description to enter the Micro Center
Back to School contest for a chance to win a $500
Micro Center gift card. Oh, good morning, friends. Would you enjoy your luxurious sleep? - You mean us, the overworked
boys at Overclock Media? - Well, I'll say that
I, well, actually no, we have successfully shot
basically the whole video at this point. Y'all can go.
- Off you go. We don't need you anymore,
we're independent now. - [Austin] Just go home. - [Matt] You know that he
hasn't shot any of this, right? - All right, so now that we have a slightly higher end camera to play with, why don't we take a look for a monitor. I want something that's gonna
be a little bit smaller, importantly, affordable,
but realistically, I want something that will easily fit on a fairly small desk. 1080p 144hz, it's 180 bucks. This might be what we want to go for. 'Cause like our system
realistically should easily be able to play at 1080p 144. We could probably go up to 1440. The only downside though is
that we're going to have to go for a much larger monitor. This might be the actual move. Now, this is not something
that I normally would do, but because we're trying to build a very space constrained setup, I want to go with a 60 Percent Keyboard, specifically the HyperX Alloy Origins 60. For a mouse, I think we
should go with the Haste. I've not tried this yet, but at $50, not only is it one of
the lighter weight mice that has the honeycomb sort of
carve-outs, but importantly, I think this will be a nice pairing so we can kind of keep our
RGB software to a minimum. Do we have space for a headset? We should get a headset, right?
- I would hope so. In a dorm room, you don't want speakers. You're gonna annoy people. - Or you really want speakers. - [Ken] No, I want to
listen to things in privacy. - [Matt] It's very clear
you never had roommates. - [Ken] Yeah, some things are not meant to be heard, Austin Evans. - Yeah, like the rest
of this conversation. All right, friends. It is time to build a
back to school gaming PC. Now, we've done tutorials in the past if you really want the step-by-step. But the idea with this system is really to try to build something
which is not simple, not beginner, but nothing which
is particularly complicated. When it comes to building a PC like this, you actually have quite
a few different options. So, I would say that this is probably on the upper end of the
mid-range of gaming PCs. We've got ourselves a 3060 Ti, we have a Ryzen 5 5600X, but a lot of what we're doing here could easily be subbed
out with a more expensive or less expensive graphics card based on what you're able to find and what's in stock at your
friendly local Micro Center, as well as things like the Ryzen
5, which generally speaking is pretty much the best deal right now, but you can go up to a
Ryzen 7 if you'd like, or down to a Ryzen 3 if you would like. I have never built in
the H210i in the past. I've built several systems
in its bigger brother. And this looks really like just a shrunken down version of it. One thing you need to keep in mind with this case in
particular is that there is somewhat limited GPU compatibility. You can fit a fairly long card in here, but you cannot do a 2 and
a half or 3 slot card, which I think our 3060Ti will fit. But it will not have a ton of room. So if you're looking, especially
when you get into like the 3070s and the 3080s
and the higher end cards, a lot of them are chunkier,
just keep that in mind before you pick up this case, pro tip. (screen beeping loudly) This is take one of the Micro
Center PC build portion. Now it is time to build our gaming PC. When you have smaller cases, a lot of times like cable
management gets kind of tricky and just being able to fit like different kinds of graphics cards. (beep) my life. The 3070 will absolutely not fit in that. That absolutely will not fit. It's a dual slot case and
it's a triple slot card. There's no chance of it'll fit. I'm gonna throw this build
out the window. (sighs loudly) (screen beeping) ♪ Do do do ♪ - Was this mystery tech? Do you throw things, oh! This is the Pixel hat. So, oh God, this was probably
two, three years or so ago. Ken and I went to a Google Pixel launch. It was the I/O like 2018
or 2019 or something. And they gave these spinny
hats because it would be funny. And now I'm going back to school. Hey! ♪ Forced jokes that don't work ♪ ♪ I'll take it for $5,000 yeah ♪ I've used NZXT power supplies
a few times in the past, but their little bag, for
all of your modular cables, is really, really nice. Also I just am partial to
purple, so I'm just saying, I'm just saying that is a thing. So this is the 650 watt, which it is, as you can see, fully
modular and it is gold rated. They also do a good job,
it's all powder-coated and very sort of matte black, which doesn't actually
matter too much in the case because it's going to be right down there. So before we install our power supply, we have pre-sleeved our cables,
or pre-extended our cables, which I think will go aways toward kind of helping the black interior pop. God, I feel like we're like
a home improvement show. Oh, a little splash of white in our interior will help
kind of liven up the place, feel a little more airy perhaps. This might be top ten smoothest
builds of my life right now, it's so easy, a simple, simple tutorial will easily teach you how to build. And I need to watch that tutorial. - [Ken] What is this? - A motherboard? - [Ken] Yes, do you know
what this motherboard does? - It needs to be updated, the BIOS. - [Ken] Yes. - For 5th Generation.
- Because it probably doesn't support this. - Yes, yes.
- Yes, okay. We will do this ahead of time. - All right, fine, fine. - [Ken] So we don't build this computer and unbuild it and build it again. Like we do every single
build behind the scenes. - So, I have now updated
the BIOS on our B550 board which actually wasn't
super far out of date, but I'm glad we did it because
it still was borderline if that would actually would have worked with our Ryzen processor. So we'll go ahead and pop out our Ryzen 7, or actually, no, this is a 1600X, which is our update processor. And we'll just do a little
upgrade here, load up our 5600X. This really is an
excellent gaming processor. You've got the Zen 3 cores so you have great
single-threaded performance and you have six CPU cores, which means that you can
really do basically anything, up to and including streaming. I think now I just need to install our Hyper 212 RGB Black Edition. - [Ken] Okay, question. - Yep? - [Ken] Are you sure you want to do that before you put the-- - The board in? - [Ken] Will you be able
to reach some of the screws with the Hyper 212 already installed? - There's only four screws,
I can see, I think so. That should be fine.
- As long as you're confident. - Why do you gotta say it like that? As if the next thing
people see in the video is a flash-forward to-- - [Ken] Look, if I have to hold a camera for 10 minutes longer than I have to, I'm going to get very upset. - You know what I would
get very upset about? - [Ken] Don't, don't say it. - If I show up to Micro
Center in the morning and no one else is there so
I have to shoot the video by myself on my phone. I mean, hypothetically of course. (upbeat music) So, we have made good progress. So, not only did we reorient
the fans a little bit, so essentially the top fan
we've moved to the front because we didn't really
have the clearance. And I think Ken was very much right, having the rear exhaust
fan hop over to the cooler helps it to be a little
bit more consistent. These are two different fans. So ideally we wouldn't be
doing that for aesthetics, but we're gonna get the roughly
same amount of air flow. I think it's going to look, especially once you have the
window on, a lot cleaner. Other than that, it's
starting to come together. So, we're gonna go ahead and
slide our graphics card in. This is the part which is
gonna be a little challenging because it is a very, very tight squeeze. It'll fit, I think, but it'll
fit by a very small margin. Look at this, look at this, that's it. That's how much we fit by. - [Ken] That looks very clean though I question again, that
ability of airflow, but... - I can actually, I have a
little bit of a clearance to screw it in over here. So I might try to like
tilt it up a little bit. It'll have some airflow here and it is ventilated on the bottom. I'm not gonna say this
is the best air flow for a graphics card I've ever seen, but I think it should be okay, especially because it's an open cooler. (drill whirring) Our system is actually mostly complete. So there's a lot of cable
management I need to do. And, what was I thinking? Why did I just screw the graphics card in? No, all of my cable management in the back I'm not gonna be able to
remotely come close to touching. - [Ken] Oh wait, you didn't do the front panel.
- I totally forgot. I plugged nothing into the motherboard besides the CPU power. Okay, that's gonna come right back out. But other than that minor oversight, which will only take a moment to rectify, I think we're looking pretty good here. And so, we've completed our
back to school gaming PC set up. Now, as you can see, it
actually looks pretty decent. Now we've taken some liberties,
mostly with the table, which we have maybe borrowed
from a previous setup, but this is just an IKEA
tabletop as well as legs. And this should give you a good sense of what the system looks like
when you actually have it on top of your desk with a, I'd say, small to medium-sized tabletop? Now when it comes to the PC itself, I think it came together fairly nicely. Of course, we have our
specs, the Ryzen 5 5600X, we did go with that RTX
3060 Ti, but importantly, it all did go inside the H210i case. Now, I want to talk
about that for a second, because there are a few
things that I learned as we were putting together the system. Now, first of all, it is well, not the smallest case in the world, fairly easy to build in. The things you do need
to keep in mind though as you go to put this together
is really keeping in mind the orientation of each
individual component and the build order that you're
going to be putting them in. So, the big thing is a lot of
the cable management here is actually really easy if you run it first. So for example, running your top cables, your like 8 pin for your
CPU, all that kind of stuff, doing that before you
put the board in place, and especially before we put
a larger cooler like this in makes a big difference. Same thing with something
like the graphics card. This graphics card is
slightly above a two slot and barely fits, I'm
talking like barely fits. Honestly, you should probably go with just a straight two slot card. But that being said, you can still put this
thing together fairly easily in an afternoon and have an
entire back to school setup before you actually have
to go back to school. For peripherals we did opt to go with HyperX this time around, and I've actually got
to give them a shout out for their excellent NGenuity software. Let's just say that we've used basically all the RGB software out there, and most of it is terrible. The vast majority of it is pretty bad. But HyperX actually has one of
the best apps I've ever used. Now is it a modern Windows app, but you've got excellent control over all the things you expect, not only like your RGB and
everything for your mouse, but you also have it for the keyboard. And actually, let me talk about
this keyboard for a second. So, this is a 60 Percent Keyboard. This is the Alloy Origins 60, and not only is it really well built, it's got USB-C and whatnot,
but the RGB looks nice and it feels nice to type on too. (keyboard tapping loudly) Yeah, 87 words per minute. That's actually on the upper end of what I'm usually able to do. I really like the red switches in here. Honestly, especially
considering the price, this is a solid combo
as well as our headset, which I would love to demonstrate
with a game of "F1 2021". I should undo our nice little wrap here. Yeah, so I'm actually surprised I have not started playing yet, but it has defaulted to very high settings as well as ray tracing on. We'll see. Oh, it's raining, oh it's going to be bad. That is so smooth. Nope, nope, nope, okay. We're just gonna take it nice and easy. Ah ha ha ha! Ah, they're everywhere! Okay, all right, all right. We're gonna stay nice and
clean on this one, okay? Nice and clean. All right, dive bomb it, yeah, boy! Yeah, boy! So the performance is great, I've been getting 130
to 140 frames per second this entire time. And especially F1 in the rain is, I wouldn't say it's super demanding, but especially with little
bit of ray tracing on, pretty impressive. I got the run, I got the run! Yeah, boy, let's go. This is actually like top five
F1 races for me of all time. Ken doesn't know this, but I've
actually been practicing F1 'cause I'm tired of
losing in BROKE vs. PRO. (exhales loudly) Wow. So that is our back to
school gaming PC set up. Of course, huge shout
out to our kind sponsors over at Micro Center, so if
you want to know more about any of the things that
we used for this setup, the links will be in the description. And while you're down there, why don't you subscribe and
ringaling that dingaling button so you'll be always notified
for our latest content. I mean, with content like this, who wouldn't want to be subscribed? Besides your weird ex-husband. Whoa, wait, whoa, that was
a little more aggressive than I thought.
- What are you talking about? - That was a little more aggressive, I was trying to make
a joke and I was like, wait, why did I just say ex? Well, your ex-husband might enjoy this. (chuckles softly) Oh, Jesus Christ.