- Okay, I see a big Walmart box coming.
(dramatic music) Oof, all right. Let's see what we got here. Fitness Essentials Kit. - [Ken] Yeah, you stopped
working out, and now you need it. - [Matt] Have you ever
seen those like wacky waving inflatable arm flailing tube men? - That's, this is the gag? This is what we do on Mystery Tech now, roast me, make me work out, and then say I'm as good
looking as Chris Hemsworth? - [Ken] Okay, but remember, remember, this is not Mystery Tech. - Oh, no. I hate workout tech. That's always the worst. Okay, what is-
- [Ken] Look on the side. Look at the side. It has a theme. (Austin grunts) This better not have been expensive. We've got ourselves a foam mat. - [Ken] Wait, don't you wanna
try the rest of it first? - What, what? It's not even the right side up. - I'll do downward dog. - [Ken] Oh god, no! - Okay, oh. - [Ken] Oh, that's a lot of colors. - So this is all just resistance bands. That's all this is. I want weight. I don't want resistance. I want to crush resistance. Oh yeah, I guess a shout out. I put my credit card in to
activate my free subscription. Hey, Matt, you wanna
put your credit card in? - Yeah, sure. You pay for it. (group laughs) (upbeat music) - [Austin] What do I do? - Strong wrist, and pulse. We're warming up as we go. - Whoa. - [Matt] You feeling the burn yet? - This is not fun. Can I just do my own thing yet? Let's just go extra
heavy, extra dumb mode. Ready, and one. - What is this? What... Oh, I love Fortnite. Oh, that's, well. (laughs) You've been doing-
- Yeah, but that's curl. That's not fun. What?
- It's not supposed to be fun. - It's exercise. - But that's not exciting. I wanna put on some-
- Yeah. Why do you think I look like this? - I'm like a dog. You put the treat out and
I'm like, "Whoo, Mystery Tech Mystery Tech."
- [Matt] Here, here. Here's the box. - "Oh, Mystery Tech." (pants)
- [Ken] Here's the box. - "Mystery Tech, Mystery Tech." - [Ken] Here's the box, here's the box. Ha. Ha. - Ah, Mystery Tech! Shargeek. Is this the thing that all
the cool kids are using now? - [Matt] About nine months ago. - These are like these
little USB-C batteries, but they're like clear and they have like little
screens on them and stuff. Hey, let's take a look, let's take a look. Okay. Wow! That's just got like aluminum. Look at how much like is on that UI there. Holy balls. I really like the fact that
it's nicely like transparent so you can see the capacitors, you can see like the USB controllers and all that kind of stuff. It does say airline safe,
which I'm assuming it is. Yeah, it's 93.5 watt-hours. I mean, that's enough to charge your phone probably three or four times. - [Matt] According to their spec sheets, an iPhone, seven times. - Also, shout out to this yellow cable. I'm going to steal this yellow cable. So before I do this, let's
take a look at the Slim. So I think the reason the Slim exists is entirely because this is a more like practical sort of spot. I think it's a little easier
to like drop in a bag. Okay, wow! We can do 130 watts out. - [Matt] So it's 100 on the
USB-C and 30 on the USB-A. - [Austin] Ooh, that's good. - [Matt] So it's 130 simultaneous. - So you look at the two of these, this guy has a little bit more capacity and has an additional USB-C port in the DC but it can actually push out
the same amount of power. This will charge basically
any USB-C device at max speed. 100 watts, as I'm recording
this video, is the max that any USB-C device
that I know will take. So it's been a little while
since I've filmed that segment and I've actually started
using the Storm 2 Slim as my everyday battery. Now, mind you, I don't
actually use it every day, but it lives in my backpack. And the ability for it to
not only charge my laptop, but phone and everything
else while I'm on the go, is really helpful. Yes, it is expensive, a little bit more so that it should be. But the fact that it looks cool, it's got this much capacity,
it's got a little screen, like I legitimately like it. It's just a little too much. This video was sponsored by Stamps.com. 2023 is flying by. Whether you've got a
side hustle online shop or a full on warehouse to manage, don't let the competition
catch you sleeping. Planning early is the key to
making the most of your time. And surprise, surprise, postage
rates have just increased, again. Thankfully, Stamps.com
has the best discounts in the industry. With 25 years of experience,
they have a relationship with both the US Postal Service and UPS to get you incredible discounts, like up to 84% off USPS and UPS rates. Stamps.com automatically tells you what the fastest and cheapest
shipping options are, all from the comfort
of your home or office. All you need is your computer and printer. They'll even send you a free scale and then make it easy to schedule a pickup through the Stamps.com dashboard. And if you sell online,
Stamps.com seamlessly connects with every major marketplace. Set your business up for success when you get started
with Stamps.com today. Sign up. It's stamps.com/AustinEvans
for a special offer that includes a four-week trial, plus free postage and
a free digital scale. No long-term commitments or contracts. Just go to stamps.com/AustinEvans. And of course, thank you to Stamps.com for sponsoring this
episode of Mystery Tech. What is a Prinker? Is it like Prinker? A printer? Well, it says black ink on it. Does anyone elaborate? - [Matt] No, you're
supposed to open these. - I asked, okay, but before I get into
it, I don't know anything. - [Matt] You've gotten
lazy in your old age. - More joyful, more
creative, more like you. Prinker, temporary tattoo. Is it a temporary tattoo machine? - [Matt] Yeah, mm-hmm. - Okay, skin primer. Oh, this got a little more serious. How temporary are these tattoos, I wonder. - [Matt] About seven to eight weeks. - Oh! - [Matt] I have no idea. I'm actually-
- Oh, okay. - [Matt] I just made that up. - Okay, good, good, good. Okay. Log in or just wanna browse around? I just wanna browse around. Oh, so there's a bunch
of like tattoo things I can just grab, right? So we've got the Overclock logo, the only tattoo I actually have. That's it right there. - [Matt] Where you got that one? - Don't worry about it. - [Crowd] Aww. - There we go. I'm gonna get this tattooed, send a photo, and see what happens. Oh, wait, there's text. Oh, I could just... (Kinsey laughs) That's fine. - All right, let me
help you out with this. We wanna make sure this
goes where it should go. - Oh, no. Are you- - Take it off, boy. - Can you spray the area? - [Ken] It's like Sally from Cars. (group laughs) - Oh, that's cold, that's cold! That's cold, oh! Whoo, that's cold!
- All right. - Okay, are you gonna print me now? This smells like hairspray.
- [Matt] Go for it. - Why does it smell like hairspray? (group laughs)
Did it do it? Did it do it? Did it work? - Sort of. - Wait, spray it quick. Water seal it. - It's actually not bad for one pass with- - (laughs) That looks terrible! That looks terrible! I don't think she's gonna buy that. Wait, I wanna do another one. I wanna do another one. - [Matt] Again, where we
put it is really important. - Stop, I'm not taking
my clothes off anymore. Mystery Tech. - [Kinsey] Oh, it's like a cowboy font! - [Austin] Yeah, all right! - [Kinsey] Yeehaw! - Let's send it. So I just line it up and press it? - [Matt] Yep. - I can't see it too well. Okay, I'm just gonna do it. Ready? - [Matt] Yeah, there you go. Keep it firm.
- Okay, nice and slow. Oh, it's coming out. Oh, it's very bad. It's very bad. (Ken laughs)
- [Matt] Oh. - [Austin] Not the Mystery
Tech that I had in mind. - [Matt] But the, really,
it's the Mystery Tech that comes out at the end of the episode. - (laughs) Good lord, Ken. Oh, no, no, no, no, no! Ken, what are you doing? No! No! Slow and straight. Don't get it crooked,
and don't go too fast. Otherwise, it's gonna be smudged. - [Kinsey] There's nothing
straight what's happening here. - Yeah, there's nothing straight. (Kinsey laughs) - Big facts. - [Ken] This is the most gay thing we've ever done on Mystery Tech. All right, ready? - [Kinsey] That's probably not true. - No, you're absolutely right.
(Austin laughs) - Kinsey, why do you
have to say the truth? - Okay. Okay, ready?
- Okay, okay, okay. Very calm, very smooth, okay. - Okay. - [Austin] No, no, no, it's not ready. - [Matt] Yeah, it is. - [Austin] That was- - [Kinsey] No! - I made a mistake! - [Matt] You gotta do
that way slower, man. - Oh, man. This angle is- - [Kinsey] Yeah, this angle is so sus. (Ken laughs) - The Liddle Speaker. - [Matt] Oh, the Liddle Speaker? - It's the Liddle Speaker. - [Matt] It's just a little guy. - Tu tu tu tu tu.
- [Matt] Liddle Speaker. - Oh, it's just a little guy. So it's magnetic, wireless,
with stereo surround sound even though it's, what? - [Ken] Two speakers.
- Stereo surround sound. It's one little speaker. (Kinsey laughs) - [Matt] Oh god. - What? They're trying to tell
me that this is little? And I'm curious how this works. Oh. I've got two magnetic rings. So it's literally an
adhesive and a strip of metal and it goes. I'm pretty much committing to this strip of metal
always being on my phone - [Matt] Unless you have an iPhone. - All right. Okay, it is MagSafe compatible, so- - Ish, ish, ish. I would not pick up your phone but, oh god, oh god. Ha.
- See, that's what you call reflexes, my friend. - We can all assume what
the usefulness of this is, but we don't know what it sounds like yet. - I mean, it's small,
so it's gonna be mid. - I think it'll be better
than your phone speaker. (upbeat music) Okay, distorted-
- Ugh! (Matt laughs) No! - Distorted bass.
- No! No, no. - Okay, so hold on. Now, let me pause this. We'll just switch to the iPhone. (laid back music) - Okay, now the iPhone speaker's better. (group laughs)
- Way better. Way better! Dude, that is hot poop, the hottest of poop. - HP? - Shh, aw, wow, jibow, wow! - [Matt] I'm sorry, what? - Wuju wow! This is a big, this is a big guy. This is a big guy. Let's see what we got. Polaroid? What company licensed Polaroid this time? - [Matt] Ah! - So actually, there's
a couple things in here. So we've got the Polaroid P1 Music Player, which I assume is a
little Bluetooth speaker. Also, apparently, if
you have two of these, you can get true stereo pairing 'cause you can just tap them together and they will be paired. Kinda neat. But then there's also this big chungus, and I don't know what the big chungus is. So the Polaroid P4. Is this just gonna be like a big speaker? I'm assuming it's just gonna
be a big speaker, right? Okay, it's a little boombox. All right. (speaker thuds) - [Matt] Oh.
- [Ken] Ooh, that's beefy. - [Austin] You know what? I mean, as a fan of yellow, I
am a big fan of this device. - [Kinsey] It's an egg. It looks like an egg. There should have been a
Gudetama like crossover. - Yes.
- [Group] Gudetama! (laid back music) - No. I just hear the bass buzzing. Let's find a track that I
know a little bit better. (upbeat music) Sounds better, actually. I do wanna try though the P1 and see how they sound side by side. (laid back music) All right, the P1 is
obviously way smaller. I don't think it sounds great. Like, it sounds okay. It's obviously a smaller speaker. And the look of it, I
think, is really nice. It feels like it's built well. So my question before
I can render judgment on Polaroid's resurrection is, what are the prices of the P1 and the P4? - [Matt] Take a guess. - Okay, I'm gonna say this, 40 bucks. This, 100 bucks. - [Matt] P1. - Yeah, I said $40 for P1 is my guess. - [Matt] Is $60. - No, okay. Moving on, P4. - [Matt] Can we get a
closeup on Austin for a sec? - Oh no. - [Matt] So this one is $290. Oof. - No! Can I please have an item? Oh, it's a little item. It's a Duncan yo-yo. So a Duncan yo-yo, clearly
the best kind of yo-yo. But why is this on Mystery Tech? - [Ken] Because you're Duncan. - [Matt] 33, oh-three, three something. I forgot how many threes. - [Ken] 33303. - That's the joke, that duncan33303? - Matt] That's the whole thing! - Okay, here's the thing. If you're not familiar, if you are a newer
subscriber to the channel, and by newer, I mean you've subscribed since the year of 2012, you won't know that my original YouTube
name was duncan33303. In fact, you can still go
to youtube.com/duncan33303 and that's the core URL of this channel. - [Matt] Where did Duncan come from? - Duncan came from, okay, a long story. When I first got online, my mom told me to be afraid of the internet
(thunder rumbles) because there are creepos around. So I used a fake name. My friend and I both created fake names. Mine was Duncan. Actually, I believe it came
from a Lemony Snicket book, from "A Series of Unfortunate Events." But once the channel actually started to
become more successful, it was one of those things where I'm like, okay, I'm not gonna pretend
to be Duncan forever. I'm gonna yo-yo now. I have not yo-yoed in so long. Yo-yos are fun. Like, I never could do
like the real tricks. - [Matt] Hey, look at, oh, he's doing-
- I almost- - [Matt] He's doing the flick. - Oh!
(Matt laughs) Geez! - I caught it. So you may be familiar with
a company called Nothing. Yes, Nothing, as in- - [Ken] Like something? - Nope. One of the co-founders of
OnePlus left the company and created Nothing, which is a company that creates something. They have a couple products at this point. They have the Nothing phone. They also have the Nothing earbuds. And this is the Nothing Ear Stick, which, I will admit, not a
great name, but it looks neat. I know this is only 99 bucks too. But on the other side, for 99 bucks, you're losing things like
active noise canceling. So pop off the top. Ooh, wait. Wait, this is neat. Wow! Okay, I will say that's
some style right there. Oh my god, are you serious? - [Ken] Let's go. - That's dope! You'd see that, I mean, the actual case is
gonna be probably too big to fit in most pockets, so this
is gonna be more of a thing that you're gonna want in your bag. But I think with this, it's a little bit more
of a fashion statement? I don't think that's unreasonable to say. So I will say immediately,
they have a very unique design. The stems are all clear, so you really have to kind of
look up very close to them. But you can see a lot of the circuitry, the batteries, the magnets. They look neat. But then the actual ear
tips themselves are, they're plastic. So they're kind of like
those old school AirPods. There's not an actual like
rubber tips or something, which I know some people prefer. I'll go ahead and pop these in. Oh, that's actually comfy. All right, let's see here. So we've got controls, which I can just customize if I want to. And then I've got my equalizer, which it's just set to balanced. So I'll just start with that. Okay, so immediately, not bad. You don't have the seal, so I think that's one of the places where a higher end
earbud is gonna give you a little bit more of a bass kick just because you're actually gonna have like a proper sort of seal. - [Matt] So with not having the
seal, they bleed pretty bad. - Oh, do they? - Yeah, so while you might like the sound, your neighbor on the bus will not. - You might not wanna buy these as your main, only,
everyday pair of earbuds. For me, I think I'd still lean
toward the Beats Studio Buds, which you can routinely find
on sale for 100 to 125 bucks. I think they're a more
well-rounded earbuds that can kind of do it all. But props to Nothing for
doing something different because this is neat. - Welcome to a new segment on Mystery Tech called "Reviewing Austin
Evans' Thermal Paste Patterns." In this case, we are going to start with potentially the worst
offender, which is this one. (record scratches)
- Who let you in the studio? - Oh. You guys didn't tell me Austin was here. - [Matt] We hoped he wasn't. - I was coming to shoot
Mystery Tech today. - [Matt] Yeah, but Adam was here. - [Adam] Welcome to-
- Am I being replaced. - Welcome to your roast of thermal paste patterns.
(Matt laughs) (Adam laughs) - So if you're not
familiar, my good buddy, mryeester here, we've actually done a couple of videos together at this point. - A couple, yep. - And I guess today, we're
looking at the DualSense Edge. So the DualSense Edge is the first time that Sony have ever released
a pro controller, right? Similar to something like
the Xbox Elite controller. The idea is this is going to give you customizable like paddles. You can actually swap the sticks out when they inevitably start to drift. All right. Here, my friends, is the DualSense Edge. - [Adam] Wow. I mean, it does look pretty sleek. - It's a little heavier. Also, I thought, watching videos, I thought that this piece was like aluminum or something. It's just like shiny plastic
that's like piano black. - [Ken] That's the biggest
flaw I think from everything. - So unfortunately, our PS5
is currently out of date. So we'll be right back after a quick little
update of our firmware. We'll give a very thorough test assuming our PS5 is up to
date today or maybe tomorrow. Let me walk you through
my DualSense Edge setup. So I have chosen to go with the tall dome stick for my steering. I have mapped my shift
buttons to the rear paddles. And I have adjusted my
left stick sensitivity to be a little bit more gradual. - [Ken] Right-hand drive, let's go! - Oh no, the shift doesn't work. Oh no, the shift doesn't work. Okay, so that's one problem here. Oh, it didn't save my profile. Oh no!
- [Ken] Oh. That would make a lot of sense. - But wait, I even made it. Am I stupid? - [Matt and Ken] Yeah. - Oh, okay. Oh wait, it was here. Okay, just hang on. Oh, you need to assign it. All right, now can I go back to the game? Yes, I can, all right. Okay, it does, I can confirm it does work. Let's go! Third place! Third best, baby! The DualSense Edge is a nice controller. There's no doubt. If you are in the market
for a pro controller on the PlayStation side,
this is clearly your option. But the DualSense is probably
the greatest controller that you can buy right now. Like, I honestly believe that. But if you wanna know
more about pro controllers we've done an entire "This
Is" all about the very best and the very worst pro
controllers out there. Wonder where the DualSense
Edge is gonna land. Below the Elite
controller. (clears throat) - [Joanna] Bye. Uh. Okay.