- Boy,
(intense music) have I got a fun project
for you guys today. My parents' new cabin
is completely off-grid which means that if they
want anything resembling a modern standard of living, they have got some problems to solve. Everything from power generation
to clean drinking water to where to store sanitary
waste is going to... Okay, well, I guess they
figured all that out without me. Leaving just one thing
for their first born son, how to get an internet connection from all the way over
there on the mainland to this point right here. (music abruptly stops) - [Andy] Not even reaching the sea line! - Thankfully,
(intense music) we've got a backup plan
and it's gonna be a doozy. And it's brought to you by KiwiCo. KiwiCo ships out crates that
contain hands-on projects for kids to help develop
their creative confidence and problem solving skills. Learn more at the end of this video or at the link down below. (upbeat electronica) (bouncy music) Step one of our little project today then just to take our two crews, one that's gonna be stationed at Lions Bay Marina back there, and the other one that gets to ride across the water in my parents' boat with all the equipment
that we're gonna need. One of our most important
pieces of equipment of course, is our airFiber 60 LR
dish/radio system combo unit from Ubiquiti. This is what we're gonna use
to get a 60 gigahertz beam up to one gigabit per second
straight across the water. In theory, we're gonna have
similar latency and bandwidth to if we just ran like a
straight up CAT 5e network cable except that we're gonna be going, like, what is it about five clicks? Something like that,
about five kilometers. (energetic music) And now that we're on site, our next challenge is
to figure out exactly where we're gonna get a clear
line back to the marina. So Jake and I are trying to sort this out. - So unfortunately, due to us being a little time constrained, we had to go grab some stuff
from the hardware store and come back and by the time we got here, Linus had already shipped off
on the boat to the other side. Now, what that means is he
wasn't able to stand here and tell me where roughly it is. So I'm trying to spot him. He's on that side, like
jumping, doing jumping jacks, waving his hands, and we're trying to see
him through the binoculars, but they're not exactly
the zoom I would want for the six-ish kilometers
it takes to get over there. So this is gonna be a little tricky, but we're gonna try to
at least get a rough spot of where he is and then we can move over to try to get the dish on the wall and then tilt it from there. Good luck to us. It's so difficult to make it out. Like I can't hold the
binoculars steady enough to see an object. - [Linus] Do you see me? I'm waving my arms around like a madman. - Like he's a pretty small human, so. Oh wait, hey, do you see that
boat going across right now? - [Linus] Jake, I sent you ping. - Do you see the boat? - [Linus] Negative, there
is no boat anywhere near me. - Is there like some criss-cross lumber, like set up as a support or
construction or something? - Yes, that's the one! Criss-cross lumber. How can you not see me? - There's no, or there is? - There is. - There is. I think I see you then. - Well, do you see a person
jumping around or not? Hi, can you see this? - Are you fingering me? - All right, I think we have contact. - I definitely can't see
it, but I just assumed. - All right, I'm heading
back up to the house. (bassy techno music) As you can see, the inside
is still a construction zone which doesn't prevent my parents from putting up some pictures on the wall. You know, you've got to make it homey. Anyway, none of that's our problem 'cause we're gonna be
out here on the top deck. This is perfect. I couldn't tell from down there, but we have a perfect
straight shot to the marina. I can see it clear as day. This is gonna be awesome. See that blue kind of like
shipping container looking thing? Bright blue. It's just to the left of that. This is gonna be easy as pie. - I think we are on
(energetic music) what is the sketchiest
scissor lift I've ever seen. Like, look at this. It's bent to crap, it shakes,
it's got a little wiggle, Brandon really likes it and
we only have to go that high. Like another one of me, so
it's not gonna be that bad, but it's pretty sketchy. I guess it's better than a ladder though. You ready? (motor hums) Oh! Oh, it's not that bad. - [Brandon] 'Kay look,
just stop testing it. (Jake laughs) - [Brandon] Jake! - I'm not, I have to go over
here to do this, I'm just. All right, I'm gonna grab the mount. Let's just try to walk
in the middle I guess. - [Brandon] I'm not moving. - [Jake] You're not moving? - [Brandon] I'm not moving. - [Jake] I gotta, okay. - Time to sit my butt
on this nice blue chair and do a whole video ladies and gentlemen. We've got some Ethernet cable, we've got a Jackery just to power things while we're testing, we've
got a cordless drill, we've got an EdgeSwitch 10XP, this is a 10 port power
over Ethernet switch. So we plug our included power
adapter into the back here and then it's gonna provide
power to our connected devices over these RJ45 ports. Now these guys over here, these are SFP, they are not gonna be able
to do power over Ethernet, but if for whatever reason,
we had other SFP gear, we could connect it using that. We've also got this cute little guy. This is the UAP FlexHD. This is a lovely little
wireless access point. It's PoE powered, it's outdoor rated, so that means that probably
what we're gonna end up doing is taking this puppy, putting
it right next to the switch, and I'm willing to bet
with how open it is here and how little interference there is, I'm gonna get an internet
connection on this from basically the entire property here. It comes with PoE injector if you don't have a PoE switch, but we do. So we don't need that. Also, I'll need a laptop to
connect up my gear over here. And of course, ah, yes, the
big guy, the airFiber 60LR. All right. Come on! Oh. That's my walkie. So we've got our dish here. We've got the, ah, yes,
the personal massager. - Shower head.
- The shower head. This is the radio component of it. So this puppy just is gonna go in a little something like that. Ah, there you go. Oh yeah, you don't even need the manual. Who needs manual boys? Another PoE injector. We won't need that 'cause
we do have a PoE switch. This... Okay, we'll check the manual. Okay. This clips on here, this pops open here so we can get at the RJ45 jack of there, that's where our power over Ethernet and of course our data are gonna come in, it runs down this arm, comes out this weather resistant
thing-a-ma-boober here. And then all that's left is the pole mount that's included in the box. And this. - Anyways,
(upbeat music) so let's talk about mounting a little bit. Usually a dish like this
would end up on the roof of a building, probably like a skyscraper or on a tower of some sort with a pole, but in our case, we're trying to mount it to the side of a building. So we looked at a few different options and it seemed like a satellite dish mount was the best course of action. And surprisingly, it's kind of difficult to get these things in really urban areas because they don't really
use satellites a lot anymore. But I did find the guy that actually does satellite teardowns and he had a bunch of extra ones sitting in his storage locker. So bada bing, there we go. Now we are drilling into concrete which makes us a little more difficult, but it should be okay. We got our hammer drill,
we got some Tapcon screws which are made for concrete. Everything should be okay. I just sort of have to plan it out and mark it and hope that that works. Do you think like there is good? - [Brandon] There is good. - The only thing is once
I put it on the wall, it's gonna be very
difficult for me to adjust. I can't look through the
viewfinder if you know what I mean. Linus is like on a deck on that side so he can look through a viewfinder. - Ah, oh, oh, you're right, Andy. This is the viewfinder. There you are. (upbeat music) - Ah, I guess we don't
really have much choice, so. The hole on the mount is
actually a little bit bigger than the hole that we need. So I got a little bit of flexibility. Is it just me or is that like spinning? Whoa. Wow, it literally completely stripped it. We are following the instructions. Yeah, maybe it's just really
strong wall or something. I also got some different ones
that are a little smaller. I did bring another solution. Some, like, plugs. Having the time of my life right now. Okay. Wow, I am so glad that we
were able to get it in there. I was starting to get
a little worried there. - Now let's talk some speeds
(electronica music) and feeds for this bad boy. This right here, regular
old gigabit network port, but what's special about it is that it uses 60 gigahertz wireless in order to fully saturate this thing. So that is two gigabit total, one gigabit send one gigabit receive if Ubiquiti's specs are to be believed. As for how they get around
the range limitations of 60 gigahertz, if you guys remember, 60 gigahertz can be
blocked by a piece of paper if you happen to have WiGig in your house. So how's it gonna go five
kilometers across the water? Well, that's because A: there's no piece of paper in between, that's very important and B: because these antennas are
sending just a narrow beam of data across the water instead of just trying to
send it in all directions, they're much more focused and they can do up to
apparently 12 kilometers on this particular model. - We're gonna leave
(upbeat music) that over there for now. And I wanna talk about
the mount a little bit. So this is a pretty cool
piece of kit they include with this dish. It actually has a bunch of very accurate adjustments you can do just by the degree. And then once you figure out, you've done your alignment tool, you've gotten it where you want it to be, you can actually just
lock them on both axis which is really cool. Now what we're probably gonna have to do is clamp this on, get it where we think
roughly it should be, and it might be a good hour of tilting and screwing around with it until we get it where we want it to be. - Got the screwdriver.
(techno music) LTTStore.com. Just kidding, we don't have those yet, but the dad hats are coming soon. These are sick. They're awesome. I've got two different screw sizes, Andy. I've got the good enough
to hold it up size and I've got the just in case someone has a couple wobbly pops and decides to try to hang off of it. - [Andy] Let's go with the big boy. - You want the big boy? All right, you got it. All right, I think we're good now. Is everyone happy? I can go ahead and lean off the porch? - [Andy] Yep. - All right, someone
gonna pull me back in? I guess I can use the rope. All right, what are we secured to? Whoa! That's a real high up boys! Okay. - I think this is a Ubiquiti
approved installation method. What do you think Brandon? - [Brandon] Yeah, absolutely. It's in their manual. - There is a viewfinder
that this thing comes with. Linus probably showed you it. This little guy. And you actually clip it
into the back of the dish, but I don't really have
a way to look through it. You know, actually maybe
if I put it on this side, I think it can mount in a couple- Oh my God. That was a good catch. The viewfinder they include
with this kit is really nice because it forces your perspective to be in line with the dish
and where it's pointed. I thought I was decently lined up, right? But if I look through the viewfinder, I am pointed right at the ocean. So I'm gonna adjust this up a little bit. And then now, I am pointed at the sky which I also don't want. - I got my harness so I'm not too worried about falling to my death at this point. Let's go ahead and
loosen this a little bit. There we go. Now we're a little off. We're probably about, I'd
say, five degrees low. Wow, actually. I don't know, actually. We might've freaking nailed it. - All right. I'm gonna leave it right there and we'll have to wait
until Linus is ready to go. - Now obviously,
(upbeat music) the plan would be to power this using something other than
a portable battery bank. So they're gonna have a
combination of solar, wind, and then there's actually a little creek that runs through the property that gets water about eight
months out of the year. So that's the plan for the future, but for today, we're just testing it. So I'm just gonna plug us into this. - As with most of Ubiquiti's other stuff, this is PoE powered. Usually a PoE injector like
this would be mounted inside or you'd have a PoE powered switch, but for now we're just gonna have this up on the scissor lift with us
and I put a really long cable so maybe once it's lined up,
we can go down to the ground, but that's probably gonna be a while. Unfortunately, we weren't
able to get an ISP to run internet here yet. They said it's gonna be a
couple of weeks lead time. So instead, we brought our little LTE puck which is kind of funny
because you would usually just take the LTE puck to the other side and have that as your internet, but no, we wanna test this link so this is gonna act as our router and provide us some internet access so we can actually try this out. Pretty easy. Bam, we're plugged in. That's all you gotta do. It's working! - [Linus] I haven't even connected to the Bluetooth thing yet! - You plugged it in? I guess we just light it up. It says our link is about 77% optimal, but it says our capacity
is two gigabit right now. - [Linus] Are you kidding me right now? You know, the whole time
over here I've been like, "This is gonna be cake. This is be cake." And then I was kind of
setting it up for that moment in the video where Linus
get proven to be wrong, but I mean, was it that cake? - It was pretty cake. It says our capacity is two gigabit. I guess with 78% link, that's enough. - [Linus] That is freaking crazy! Okay, I think
(electronica music) I'm just straight up connected to you now. I grabbed the driver and boom. Like let me just see. Here it is. We're logged into Gambier House dashboard, we can see our airFiber 60 LR (B) and (A). So one of them is at Lions Bay Marina, one of them's at the Gambier House, they both got their IP
addresses, their uptime. Fantastic. I am in the dashboard on my computer and I am connected to
the dish on my phone. Everything is bueno. - [Jake] Sweet, did you
touch the dish at all? - Sure didn't. You know what I wonder, if
it's just people moving around. All right, we gotta wrap
this up pretty quick here. How do we do the fine tuning thing? - [Jake] I'm just tightening
my mounting bracket down to the J-pole. - It's amazing how much a little bit of wiggle
wobbling effects things. Immediately when you were
like, "I'm tightening it down," I saw it jump all over the place. Honestly, I think we nailed
it right out of the gate. - I got a little more
horizontal adjustment to do so give me a minute. I guess, at this distance, like you gotta be adjusting
it like fractions of a degree. It's crazy how much of a
difference like a quarter turn of this knob makes in terms
of where it's actually pointed if you look through the viewfinder. - It's very responsive though. Like you can see within
about a second or two if what you're doing is working. Oh, and it's gone. What'd you do, move in
front of the antenna? - [Jake] I actually
bopped it with my elbow. - This is it, big test time.
- Dual B test. Okay, I'm starting. Ping is one millisecond. - Nice. Oh, look at this! Look at this! 800, 923 megabit per second
download, 903 upload. - [Jake] It fluctuates a bit, but that's pretty impressively stable. - That's freaking rock solid. Oh, that's freaking awesome. I'm stoked. I'm stoked. This is great. So all they gotta do is a
little bit of cable management, get that cable run into the house, and that's something they
can handle on their side. And then we're ready to rock. - [Jake] Pretty exciting. Wait, I wanna try a one way test 'cause I think theoretically,
we can get higher speeds. - Oh wow. Without the Ethernet port as a bottleneck, like this thing is
actually capable of greater than the network port
on the freaking thing. So we're going across the water and we're literally
bottlenecked by the wire. - [Jake] There's gotta
be a metaphor in here. - You know what else
there's a metaphor for for? - [Jake] This segue to our sponsor? - You know it baby! Big thanks to KiwiCo for
sponsoring this video. KiwiCo is a monthly subscription service that helps introduce and make
steam topics fun and engaging for kids of all ages. KiwiCo believes that if you start learning
small things today, you can produce world
changing ideas tomorrow. Each crate is designed by experts and contains everything
you need to complete it with detailed kid-friendly instructions. That means you don't need
to run off to the store to get extra supplies
like glue or scissors, it's ready to go. They've got eight different
subscription lines, each catering to a different age group and different kinds of topics and the crate that we're
looking at here is at Kiwi level for kids ages five to eight that teaches programming and robotics. Another one is their Eureka level, which is for teens age 14 plus which highlights basic
engineering and sound practices. KiwiCo is a great way to keep
kids, not to mention adults, occupied for hours and they now ship to over
40 different countries. So don't wait, fight
summer brain drain today at KiwiCo.com/ltt to get
your first month for free. If you guys enjoyed
(upbeat music) this video, you might enjoy us not doing it quite as successfully. So maybe go check out our last attempt. We did a greater distance that time, but boy, was it ever a
nightmare to get it working? This is, phew, totally painless. And look how good it looks by comparison. You can see right through the dish. It hardly even obstructs the view.