- Laptops have a problem. They're hot, loud and kinda slow. Which is more like three problems. But today we are gonna
solve all of them at once. In this ordinary looking brown box here, is the Eluktronic's
Liquid Propulsion Package or, 'Lil PP' as I like to call it. It's a water cooling ad-on
that can apparently drop a laptop's temperatures by 20 degrees. But I am gonna have to
see that to believe it. I'm seeing it. I'm still not sure if I believe it. But I believe I'm gonna
tell you about our sponsor. Thanks to Casetify for
sponsoring this video. Casetify's new impact
and ultra impact cases offer drop protection,
come in tons of designs and even have an anti-microbial coating. Go to casetify.com/ltt to
save 15% on your order. (bright upbeat music) (glass breaks) Now this is not the first time a laptop has been water cooled. And it's not even the first time we've seen a water cooled laptop. The ASUS GX 800 had this massive dock to keep its dual GTX 1080s from freaking desoldering themselves. And we have actually water-cooled the Alienware Area 51M, twice. Incredibly it survived. - [Alex] Sort of.
- Sort of. What's different about the Eluktronics LPP is that the price isn't super out there compared to a normal laptop. Wow, it's really light
actually kind of feels cheap. The watercooler is only
$200, although yeah, that's not that cheap, but it's a lot better
than the $5,000 premium that a ASUS charged for
the GX 800, I guess. And the script just
says, "Yolo vlog here." So I guess this is where we install it. Hey there's really not much to it, hey. Can I open it? - [Alex] Not yet.
- No? I want to open it though. It looks like there's clips. Oh, it definitely has
nasty plastic clips on it. So far I have broken zero of the clips. Almost zero of the clips. So... look at that, we've got some anti-vibration
foam around the pump. We've got a 120 millimeter radiator. We've got a reservoir that is actually very thoughtfully
designed and implemented, it's right above the pump. So it's always getting- even if it evaporated a
bunch of the water away, it's always gonna be getting the freshest, leased and bubbly water. You've got a little window on the front where you can monitor your coolant level. That's really convenient. And then over on the
other side, you've got, is this worth praying off just
to see the one 120 mil fan? Oh wow, this one's coming off way easier. Why did I even need a tool before? There it is, 120 millimeter fan. And a little control board that's going to be
distributing power to our pump and our fan. And then just got a single
DC input at the back there, probably 12 volt if I had to guess. - [Alex] You just take the laptop power, plug it in the back and pass it through. - It passes through power to the laptop? How the F does that work? Oh, I see. So it just like siphons off
some of the power being passed through this. Just thing that
just is sticking out here. - Yeah. - I've seen dumber things
in terms of coolant routing. Everything's like smart. They have someone there that
is sensible and like those water cooling, like even
just little things, right? Like having the fittings up at the top, that's gonna allow the air to bleed out of it much more easily. So you've got it coming in
this way, coming up here, going through the radiator and
then coming out to the top of the reservoir, that's gonna create
very little turbulence, which is gonna create very few bubbles in the reds to be sucked
back into the pump. I like it. I mean, this could be the world's
cheapest crappiest pump for all I know but, at least the layout of
the loop is thoughtful. I don't know if $200 is what I would want to pay for AIO tier hardware. But something to consider
is that this is gonna be a pretty low volume product I would imagine. And something's got to account
for the tooling costs of creating these plastic molds. Huh? Look at that. That did it say whatever you
want about the cooling solution though? The SSD in here,
it looks pretty good. Gen four by four Samsung SSD. What else we got shaken here? This looks like 32 gigs of DDR four. Wait, is this DDR five? Oh cool. 4,800. Oh, are we even allowed to like
talk about this hardware yet? 'Cause this would be
12th gen yes. 12th gen. - Yes (indistinct) - Oh, oh. There's a note in here. Important. This is pre-production
hardware and the CPU and GPU are under embargo. We can show temps and power draw, nothing else or Nvidia and Intel
will light a big bag of poo on fire and leave it
on our front doorstep. Read you loud and clear. Now that I'm done getting
distracted by the Chinese, let's turn our attention
to the star of the show. With the integrated water cooling, the aluminum heat sinks are enough to effectively cool the laptop. But what I'm imagining is
that when you add the water cooling system, the fans
won't have to work as hard, which should theoretically
make it quieter. And your internal temps should
get lower. I mean, I, I, I can see how this could
conceivably work. Look at this. You've got contact with the
CPU right here and it runs all the way over all three of these
heat pipes and comes over to the GPU and then even runs
over the area where your video memory and your VRMs probably are, unless the VRMs over
here and then comes out, back across the CPU and out it goes. Electronics what do they
claim? 20 degrees improvement. - Yep. - Wow. Now, to be clear, that's not enough that you could just run it on water cooling. Like these tubes are very
secondary compared to the heat pipes that make up the air cooling system. It's just that the biggest
challenge in a laptop is how little space you have to work with. So the heat sinks are all these
crazy small and the fans are crazy inefficient because they
have to be these super low profile fans. This takes that and ideally
solves both of those problems. Nice. Big radiator. Nice big fan. So the tech can? - Yeah. - Hey, I recognized the car. - Yeah. That's even the color we have. - Yeah. Like the exact one. Could I grow? It looks better in person. Well, it didn't take us
long to thermal throttle. It already detected thermal
throttling. So that's cool. We reached a maximum of
88 degrees on the CPU. How's our GPU doing? 82.3 power 130 watt. Alex has already run more
scientific versions of these benchmarks, but I just
want to experience it. Oh, well that was easy. That really that's the seal. Okay. I have one more bit of
advice for the engineers that electronics. I would like to see a bit
more of a permanent top seal because this is the sort of
thing that if left unattended a little sibling or a pet
could easily knock over. And if the water did in fact come out, it could easily make its way
to being sucked into the fans of your laptop. I don't like that. See, this is why brands should send
us products before release. Like the number of things like
that, that we could prevent. They just sent it to us on
the second to last revision. Like here's an example. I
might've told them, well, this would have to be at an earlier stage, but I might've told them
to put these on the back, so that the tubes aren't
sticking out the front, this end appears to be
just a quick connect. So, oh, look at that. That's actually kind of awesome. Then you just pull back
here and nothing pops out. Wow. This has a very
engineering sample vibe to it. They literally just CA glued
two different diameters of tubing together to make
this filler for it. I mean, for me, I only live once, so I'm not gonna use it. - But Jesus Christ don't do that. - No, I, I will use it. I will use it. I will
actually use it for change. I'm very offended that
this is here by the way, instead of an LTT store.com water bottle, eight water bottles.
Keep your drinks Cool. You even cooler. Yeah. This would be not the
greatest job in the world. I feel like I'd get better at it though. - Hey Linus! Can you gain now? No! - No, I have to fill up my cup. Oh, I think I've finished
filling it. All right. I'm gonna try to power it on you ready? Okay. There's some
unfortunate news though. The lap hump is quiet. But this thing is fricking loud. Okay. Let's see if we can solve that. I would not recommend
filling it all the way, because this event here,
got you can see that, it's, it stays open. I am super confused right now. There's no way it is
supposed to be this loud. So we can monitor the fan,
but can we control the fan? Not that I can see, what a let down. I am so disappointed right now. Shut up! You know, just shut up. Shut up, shut up. Just shut up. Just shut up. What the complexity of this board in here. It seems like it should be
able to handle fan control. Okay, Alex, I'm doing it. Here's what we're gonna do. - What, what are you doing? - I'm controlling the fan speed and I'm controlling the pump, getting them both at a reasonable level. Are you seriously changing
game settings right now while I have my thumb
freaking burning on a fan. - Okay. So let's see CPU
hit a maximum of 80 degrees, although it seems like it
was drawing on an average of 55 Watts instead of
the 45 that it was before. - That's cool. - How's our GP doing. - GPU max of 66.9. So that's way better. - Yeah. - And it's been drawing 127. Looks like a hundred and
average 125. So about the same, although that's probably power limited. - Why Justin, so let down right now. - It sounds broken. - It really does sound broken.
I think it must must've. - Yeah, it might be broken. So I have confirmed that it is broken and should not sound like that. - Cool. But that doesn't account for
that it has no speed control. - What is working though? It works great. Like, look at this. - Yes. This is wonderful. It's a lot better. - It's a lot, a lot like, look at this sustained
100 Watts on the CPU. It was like 50 before. - Yeah. - It's a massive difference. - That's pretty cool. It's like it's helping
out the CPU the most. - Well, I'm guessing the
GPU temps are way lower. Oh, for sure. Yeah. (laughs) - Wall wall. That's awesome. Like 58 degrees. - Massive drop in GPU
temps and literally doubled your CPU power. Like not bad. Just has to work. - Not a perfect product,
but when it works, boy, is this ever a fast laptop
that gets even faster when you hook it up to the
external cooling system? They've just definitely got
a couple of little wrinkles, tired out, just like I always
ironed my segues, smooth. Get the best prices and best
selection on computer hardware and everything else technology
at any one of micro centers, 25 locations across the United States. Check out the Micro
Center's Custom PC Builder to spec out the best PC for your budget. It'll help you ensure all
your parts are compatible. Find stock available at
your nearest micro center. Then you can just add it to your cart and arrange for same day in store. For a fee, you can check the box marked
same day pro assembly, and one of micro centers, expert technicians will
assemble your PC for you. If you want help deciding
what parts to put in new, new custom gaming PC. Join the
online Microcenter community. It's a great place to discuss
tech with other enthusiasts. New micro center customers can get a free 240 gig SSD at the link down below, no purchase necessary valid in store, only limit one coupon per customer. If you guys enjoyed this video, go check out the one where
we water cooled in Alienware with a weird thing we
found on alley express. It cost way more and
didn't work nearly as well. I really think they're onto something. The SCATA iron wrinkles.