- Well, hello there. I'm about to spend 24 hours surviving in the desert with nothing, but my Dell Latitude 9510. Dell of course are sponsoring this video. So, you might be wondering, why am I in a plane crash right now? I don't really remember a little bit weird to be completely honest with you. Alright, so we have a very long
time to spend in the desert. So let's see if we can find, I don't know, something to do, like telling you about
the Dell Latitude 9510. Look, tons of people are
working remote right now and that's where this shines. So I wanted to take it up a notch by being about as remote as humanly possible. Now this lightweight laptop
comes in at only 3.1 pounds. Perfect, especially for me
wandering in the desert all day. It also boasts a whopping
34 hours of battery life, which is assuring because
I don't really think there are a lot of outlets out
here for a quick recharge. - I will say that in
doing some pre-production for this video, I actually really loved
the trackpad and keyboard. - [Austin] Yeah. - [Ken] I kid you not like
the trackpad is genuinely one of the best Windows
trackpads I've ever used. It is nice and clicky, - [Austin] Tons of key travel - [Ken] And also tons
of key travel as well. - [Austin] Yeah. - This is one of the best
like fit and finishes overall for a laptop that I've ever used. And of course, it's a 2 in 1, and of course the pen sticks on the side. If you want to use it,
you can just take it out and you can use it to draw. You can use it to write notes. It can
be used in tablet mode or in tent mode. It can adapt basically to this
style of work that you do. - [Austin] So there are a couple of
things about the 9510 that are legitimately really cool. So first of all, is it's actually the
smallest 15 inch laptop that I've ever tried. And that is because of
its Infinity Edge design. This allows the Latitude
to have a 15 inch display inside a 14 inch chassis
giving it a smaller footprint, but somehow they're still able to pack a full 88 watt
hour battery inside, which is how they get to
that ridiculous 34 hours of battery life. Now, beyond that, it does have the latest 10th Generation Intel
Core i7 vPro processor. So a couple of features
which make it really helpful for being out here in the desert. So not only does it have
great thermal management with a couple of heat pipes. You have a carbon blade fan. And the thing is, this is
still a full six core laptop. We have a ton of power as well. We have Thunderbolt 3 ports. We have HDMI, we have USB-A. I mean, there's a lot to go for this. And honestly, it's something that I don't really ever
take a look at, right? I'm usually more on like
the XPS line or something, but when you look at the business laptop, you have a lot of really nice features, including four microphones on the lid? So you know what I should do. I should edit this video while
we're out here on the Dell. I mean, we've got hours
to kill and it's hot. So I might as well take advantage of my battery life now. - [Ken] Yeah, we could push it. - Yeah. Which actually will be interesting to see what the performance is because obviously the temperature out here is incredibly warm. So we'll see it, that thermal actually can sort of, those terminals can hold up. And so off we go in the search for an editing
spot with actual shade, as the temperature already
reached over 100 degrees. All right, this is a
little bit more like it. I feel like we can
actually find some shade where I can do some editing in here. You think I can edit inside the truck? This gonna be really hot. Yep, its hot. I mean, I could try. Uuuh. Nah, I am good. Wait, look at this, this doesn't work, does it? What's Drizzy Fizz? (buttons clicking) All right. Well it says closed, that’s... That's pretty locked. - [Ken] Oh, payphone. - [Austin] You think it works? - [Ken] I haven't seen one of those (dog barking) - [Austin] The (bleep) was that? - [Ken] There's a dog in there. - [Austin] Alright. Let's go around the other side, which is kind of, I see why it’s locked now. Oh dude, this is perfect. Look shade, my favorite thing. Yeah, this will work. (dog barking) Very disturbing. So one of the coolest features of the Latitude 9510, is Express Sign in. So you look at the laptop right now. It is off. It is asleep. But if we walk in front of it, it has a proximity sensor, which means that it can detect I am here. And then using Windows Hello will log me in via facial recognition. That is incredibly cool. Not only do you have the ability to sort of just look at it with your face and unlock it, just like it was your password, but the fact that it has that proximity sensor
means it's you don't have to touch anything. And the best part is if I walk away and wait one minute, it will turn itself off. So I literally never have to touch anything besides
I guess the keyboard and the trackpad sometimes, but that's just actually use the laptop. It always keeps you
signed in and signed out. Wait, wait, I need to do work right now - Think you can edit inside the truck? - You know what's impressive about this is that it is well over
a hundred degrees here, but because we have the dual sinks, the dual heat sinks, we have the carbon blade fan and we have the material on the inside to keep the palm rest from getting too warm. The performance is actually totally fine. Now that I'm done editing, let's go out and do more exploring while trying not to get lost in this blistering heat. - Are you actually serious? (laughing) We have to cross this. Why? Why, why would we have to-- what's that? What's what's now, no, no, no. What's this? - [Ken] What's that? - [Austin] What do you have on your back right now? What is that? Where'd you get that? - I found it. - [Austin] What do
you mean you find this? - [Ken] It was in the gas station. - You got this at the gas station, - At the gas station. - [Austin] What does this do? - Oh, it has like a
bunch of fans and a pipe. - [Austin] Is this
a cooling apparatus? - If I had to guess? Yes. Do you want it? - So the idea is that all of this, whatever it's doing is being
powered by this USB cable. The good thing is that the laptop actually
still has like 80% battery. So I guess what we'll do is we'll put the laptop in here. We'll power the entire
thing using the Dell. I mean, look, I'm glad we have battery. What I'm not happy about is I have to build Jimmy Neutron’s failed experiment. (country music playing) Does anyone even know who Jimmy Neutron is? Am I too old for that? (country music playing) Jimmy Neutron was cool. Can't believe I have to build this thing. Okay. What the-- That's it. Okay. Whatever this ends up
being, it is not worth it. The dumbest dumbest thing ever. (Austin sighs deeply) I think it's easier just to burn to death. Do you have any idea how
I'm supposed to do this? How would you screw this on? That is both sides of this
are locked tight together. (Ken drinks) Okay. So I think I have this backpack assembled. So now let me grab the Latitude, plug it in and take advantage of that huge 88 Watt hour battery. So theoretically, if I
plug this into the laptop and then I fire up the
fans, this will work. Oh! It works. There is fan action. Yes, I have a tiny bit of mist. I don't think this is
going to be any cooler than just the wind, but at least it works. It works! Now I gotta put it on. It's very loud. Okay. (instrumental music playing) Theoretically, if I stand up right now, I will be mildly cooled all
by my wonderful Dell laptop. Okay. Here we go. Oh, I've done it. Goodbye. I'm going to walk across the desert now, it helps if these fans
are facing toward me. This is definitely just heavier. It makes no difference. (instrumental music playing) Dude, I think we gotta chill. Can we like stop and get something to eat? I feel like I haven't eaten all day and we still gotta make
it all the way over there. I have some MRE's. You have your choice. Do you want shredded
beef in barbecue sauce or do you want elbow
macaroni and tomato sauce? - [Ken] Those are in a bag, dude. - MRE's - [Ken] They're in a bag. - Are you hungry? Do you want to eat or do you want to just watch me eat? Have you ever had an MRE before? - This is an all time
low for me, Austin Evans. (Austin laughing) Oh no, God, what is this? The bag is bleeding. (Austin laughing) It's actually tastes like Chef Boyardee. - Maybe it is. He's putting it in a different pouch. - Honestly, that's probably what they did. - Scale of one to 10. How sunburned are you right now? - Do you want the safe
for camera answer or? - No. I want a non-safe for anyone answer. - My people were made for the sun. - Mine weren't. - Fair. - How long we've been out here? What? 10 hours now? So the sun is just going down. How long do you think
we're gonna last tonight? Before we inevitably
call Matt and give up. - How much macaroni do you have? - That's the last one. - Do you have cell service? - Nope. - Nope. - Then how are you're going to call Matt? (Ken laughing) - Well, the laptop. It has optional 5G. That's not out yet, but it also has 4G. - Oh, it's 4G now. - Yeah, so I'm sure we'll
have the service somewhere. - I'm getting tired of this macaroni. - Like I say, the barbecue is
actually I'm like enjoying it, the more I eat it. (both laughing) it just started out gross, but I'm legitimately hungry and then the more I eat, I am like, this is okay. (Austin laughing) - It sounds like working for Austin. (both laughing) - That sums up my four
years working for you. - All right. I'm gonna actually try to
see if we have service. You know what? Do you want take a guess how
much battery I have right now? Without looking. - Wow. (Ken laughing) - 80%. - You can't tell me now
when I've already seen it. - Dude I've got 80% on this. - That's crazy 10 hours we've been here. - Yeah, I don't have service. I think we have to walk
farther to try to find service. Which way do you, can you smell the internet? Which way is the internet? It's really dark. I can't see much anymore. All right. Things are starting to
get a little bit bad. It is pitch black out here. The batteries on our
lights are dying and we've run out of not only food, but most importantly, we've run out of water. Thankfully though, after
walking for a while, it looks like we were finally able to get just a little bit of cell service. [Ken] Wait, wait. I know that, is that Skyping? - Shhhh. Matt! - Where have you guys been all day? - What do you mean, where
have we been all day? We've been out in the desert
shooting the Dell video. - Didn't show up to work. - Oh, you lost me? Wow. - Oh, you're chopping out hella hard. - Oh, it's almost like I'm
in the middle of the desert hanging onto a tiny bar of service. Matt. I can't lose you buddy. Come back to me, Matt, come back to me. Can you please come get us? - Where are you? - We're at a dry lake bed
in California somewhere. - Alright, sounds good. I'll be right there to pick you guys up. Matt, thank you. Alright. We'll see you in like four hours. - Maybe, maybe like six, seven. - Its okay. It’s just Ken and I
here, we're very lonely. So my friends is our attempt to spend 24 hours in the desert while we may have failed, the Dell Latitude 9510 didn't. So you can definitely
be sure to check it out at the link in the description. If you want a laptop that's far more durable
and robust than we are. Matt's gonna be here like
before the sun comes up, right?