- Google unveiled the
Pixel 6 and 6 Pro today but we already knew everything about it because they let everything leak months before they even announced
the date for the launch event. But Google's desperate
attempts to drum up hype for the Pixel 6 make more sense when you realize that after five years of trying to make Google phones a thing, 11, if you count the Nexi. Google phones still account
for only around 2 to 4% of the smartphone market, but the Pixel 6 is going
to change everything. It's got Tensor, Google's
first mobile chip designed in house. Apple made their own
chips and look at them, everybody loves them. So let's look at what
Google announced today and see whether the Pixel 6
is worth being excited about. But you shall be excited
by our sponsor, GlassWire. GlassWire lets you
instantly see your current and past network activity. It lets you detect malware
and block badly behaving apps on your PC or Android device. Use offer code LINUS and
get 25% off GlassWire at the link below. (upbeat electronic music) The Pixel 2, 3 and 4 were all
more or less the same phone as their XL counterparts
with a few minor differences like battery and display size. But at 899, the Pixel 6 Pro has
a number of notable upgrades over the 599 Pixel 6,
including a slightly bigger and higher resolution curved
edge display, smaller bezels, and an adaptive refresh rate
up to 120Hz instead of 90. Both phones have a 50 megapixel wide and 12 megaPixel ultra wide in the back. But the Pro has an additional
48 megapixel telephoto lens using what they call folded optics, but I'm going to continue
calling it a periscope lens until they learn we want
an actual little periscope to come out of the camera. Can we make the- I'm tired of waiting
Google, make it happen. The Pro also has a better front camera, 11.1 megapixels instead of 8
and inside it's got more ram and higher capacity storage options, which are baffling-ly limited by color? What's that? You'd like to order a 512 gig
Pixel 6 Pro in Sorta Sunny? You idiot, that amount of
storage is obviously incompatible with that color. And with Cloudy White, but
Cloudy White can do 256. It unlocked that storage tier when it gained enough experience points. And you can unlock this water bottle and experience the taste
of lttstore.com. (chuckles) But it's what the two Pixel 6's
share that's more important. Google Tensor, the brand
new chip designed by Google and custom made for Pixel by Samsung. Who may have also designed it, because Tensor might actually
be that Samsung Exynos 9855 that was spotted in leaks. And maybe that's not true, but the chip diagram
Google showed off today had the same number of high performance, mid tier and high efficiency cores as an XDA developer's leak. The same one that claimed
Google was confusingly using 2x ARM Cortex A-76 cores from 2018, instead of the more recent A-77 or A-78. Look, regardless of whether
Google bore most of the load in making this chip or not, it's clear that they're
standing behind it. Claiming it packs 80%
faster CPU performance and 370% faster graphics than the Pixel 5, thanks to a new 20 core GPU. Those are some Apple Silicon numbers, especially when it was
compared to its own predecessor and not its current competition. For that you'd have to ask Gamers Nexus. Steve? The only other indicators we saw today of Tensor's performance were the new camera software features
available in the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro that take advantage of Tensor's
machine learning chops. And I gotta say, they look pretty cool. Magic Eraser is like
Photoshop's content aware fill, but baked right into
the Android camera app. It's not something that was
impossible to do on phones, but being able to quickly
squiggle a guy out of existence for having the audacity to
obscure your photograph, seems satisfying. I'm an artist. There are also a couple of
features for both blurring and unblurring photos,
face unblur combines images from the wide and ultra wide rear cameras, so you can save a smudgy
photo you otherwise would've immediately deleted in
frustration and shame, while motion mode lets you add motion blur to elements of a photo on purpose. The results apparently
end up looking like a long exposure photo, except you didn't have
to tell your friends to remain perfectly still
in front of a Ferris wheel or a train for a long time. Which is great news because my friends are tired
of me doing this to them. Again, artist, it's a
struggle, it's my burden. Another thing Tensor's machine
learning abilities help with is analyzing a scene to make
sure that photo subjects of all skin colors and complexions are accurately represented. It's an issue that has been highlighted in the media production
industry for a long time. So it's cool to see
Google trying to make sure photos capture what
people actually look like, which I think is the
whole idea of a photo? So there was one thing in today's keynote that I hadn't seen referenced in any leaks and which I was actually
quite happy about. Developers will be able to incorporate Google's camera features
into non Google apps. So you won't have to
switch to your camera app, take a photo and then attach
it to a WhatsApp message to avoid using the
built-in WhatsApp camera, which looks like ass, on my phone anyway. But Tensor isn't all about photos. The chip will also be using its power to make voice dictation a
lot faster and contextual. Doing things like remembering
how to spell difficult names like Catherine, is it a
C, a K, question mark? Just kidding, you don't even have to
say question mark anymore. And Android's live caption
feature is being expanded with live translate. Google's been showing off some
form of real-time translation or another for years now, but this time they got
Marie Kondo, remember her? The spark joy lady from 2019? The year that ended up
sparking anything but joy? Anyways, they got her to come
on and try out the feature. And she said it was really good. So I mean, she would've thrown
it out if it was bad, right? But no, it's here inside your chat app. Most importantly though, we're getting a kind of
successor to Screen Call, the coolest Pixel feature
in my recent memory. Direct My Call will listen to
automated phone menu systems and give you an onscreen
UI to navigate instead, while Hold For Me, will,
stay on hold for you. So should you stay on hold while Google restocks the Pixel
6 and 6 Pro on their store, which crashed repeatedly
during the live stream? That remains to be seen, since even though we have
the Google Pixel 6 here and we're allowed to
tell you that we have it, we can't directly show you anything that it can actually do yet. So nice job on these Google, but unless our tests
show some real promise, I might just wait for the Pixel 6A. But don't wait to check
out our sponsor, Vessi. Vessi footwear is known for
being lightweight, easy to pack, comfortable, and most
importantly, waterproof. Designed to keep you moving, Vessi released their
new everyday move shoes. It's right there. With enhanced breathability
and added support, this style is perfect for the adventurous or those looking for
something a little sportier. Featuring a pull tab to take them off and put them on with ease,
vegan suede lace cages, extra mid-sole cushioning, and the same waterproof
Dyma-tex technology, you'll want to wear them everywhere. And I mean everywhere. The dual climate knit material keeps your feet warm during
winter and cool during summer. So stay dry and get your Vessi shoes today at vessi.com/linustechtips and get $25 off using code LinusTechTips at checkout. Thanks for watching guys. Hey, if you're looking for
something else to watch, go watch a Anthony's summary
of the Apple event yesterday, get caught up. There was a lot of news this week. Stay on your toes. (electronic music)