- Hey guys this is Austin and today at E3 Xbox finally has their next
generation, Project Scarlett. So first of all let's talk specs, inside there is going to
be another AMD based APU. It has their latest Zen 2 core as well as they have Navi graphics. This is going to give it a huge
leap in two different areas. First of all the CPU on the
Xbox One as well as the PS4 is notoriously weak,
it's a Jaguar based CPU, it's really meant for
like mobile applications, super, super underpowered. So the fact that these new consoles are getting a huge CPU bump are going to bring them much, much closer to what the PC is capable of. The other aspect is the graphics. So with Navi graphics on board this will not only support 8K, although that'll most likely be for video, but importantly it does support 4K at a full 120 frames per second. That paired with the
variable refresh display means that you can actually get
some proper PC like graphics out of the brand new Xbox, as well as of course the brand new PS5, as again, all these specs are literally identical as far as I can tell. Jacques, are you ready to buy
an Xbox Project Scarlett? - I am ready to buy an Xbox (mumbles) - [Austin] It will be $800, are you ready? - $800?
- I just made that up. - Yes, I'll buy one for $8. I think it should be $499,
that's what I'm gonna call. I'm gonna call $499 in 2020 and, it comes with a fancy box as well. - An Xbox some might say. So there's no doubt that this
thing is going to be pricey but there are a lot of other
cool features on board. So it does support GDDR6,
not a huge surprise, as well as it does support ray-tracing. Now this is actually one area
where Sony wasn't super clear on what exactly they're
doing with the ray-tracing but it should be nice to see exactly that we are getting this on the
next generation of consoles. Again, we're seeing very much
that same level of PC spec just coming over to the
console side of things. Now Project Scarlett, and to be fair that's probably not going
to be the final name when it actually ships next year, is very much an evolution
of what we've seen with the Xbox One as well as the PS4. It's an AMD based CPU
architecture, GPU architecture, basically just essentially
it's just a PC in a box but the cool part about this one is that we're actually seeing
a huge leap on both fronts. Last time we had good graphics but the CPUs really let it down. And something else that has let the current generation of
consoles down is the storage. So right now we have hard
drives across the board, however both the PS5 as
well as Project Scarlett will ship with an SSD. This is probably the second biggest thing behind the CPU jump in that
not only are load times going to be significantly shorter, but on top of that we're
going to be able to see bigger, wider worlds that
can load very quickly, right? Real question.
- Yes? - How much is the
next-gen Xbox gonna cost? [Jeopardy music] - I'm gonna go with... [Jeopardy music] $500.
- $500. All right, all right,
I can get behind that. No, for real though,
$500 sounds about right. - Competitive, yeah. 'Cause PlayStation is probably
to be six, if not higher. - I feel like they're gonna be the same spec and probably same price. I don't know, to me these two consoles feel incredibly similar. - I think Xbox is more
willing take the loss for the sake of competition. - Well another thing they did announce is that this new Xbox is
four times more powerful than the Xbox One X. As far as gameplay goes
we did get to take a look at Halo Infinite which
will be a launch title for the brand new Xbox Scarlett. Now I've got to say that
this looked awesome, right, I mean, simple things
like the depth of field was incredibly high quality,
the textures were so detailed, and the fact this is
going to be a launch title means that we are, I'm
just, I'm excited, man. It's finally time for new gen of consoles. In fact, I actually have, like
literally my very first E3 was actually when they
announced the Xbox One so I feel like it's a
full circle kind of thing. Hi. - The highlight, oh,
hello, Starbucks nearby. - You're like ready for this right now. - I always place an order at the end of the Xbox press conference and then I go and everything's ready. - All right.
- That's the end of my story. - So how much do you think
the Xbox Scarlett will cost? - I thought you were gonna ask
me how much was the Mac Pro. (laughs) - Wrong, that was last
week, come on, get with it. - I think probably like
$700, maybe, do you think? You can't make it to high
but you can, you know, I don't know, is that too much? - My guess is probably
somewhere between $400 to $600, probably leaning towards $500 to $600. - Yeah, I think that's fair. - They also talked a
lot about cloud gaming and how this is going to impact Scarlett. So on top of their xCloud service which they've talked about in the past, it's very similar to
something like PlayStation Now where you can stream Xbox
games pretty much anywhere. On top of that you actually
don't even have to necessarily pay Microsoft for it because
if you already have an Xbox One you can use that to stream
no matter where you are. Now this is of course going to be very dependent on the internet but it's a really cool feature. They're also expanding
Xbox Game Pass to PC. So for $10 a month you get access to somewhere in the neighborhood
of about 100 games and the cool part about it is that there's also an additional Xbox Game Pass Ultimate feature
which will be $15 a month but includes Xbox Game Pass
for Xbox, PC, and Xbox Live. I swear just said the word Xbox 12 times in that one sentence. Okay, so I'm asking a literally
everyone this question, how much will Scarlett cost? - I feel like Microsoft
won't go crazy high 'cause we saw what
happened with the Xbox One. I'd be surprised, I'd say $500 to $600. If it were higher than that, even five to six is like pushing it. I'm hoping five, if
it's six that's the max. - When you figure the
One X right now is $500 and you're adding an SSD, which is going to be very expensive, brand new CPU, GPU, ray-tracing,
all that kind of fun stuff, I think $500 is to me
probably close to the floor. - Yeah, no, I think that'd be great. If people expect, if, I don't know, if they price it any higher
people are just gonna, you know people, they're gonna be upset. - People, getting upset on the
internet since forever ago. Microsoft also announced
a brand-new version of the Elite Controller. So there are a lot of small
but important improvements. So it finally has a rechargeable battery that's built in, which
you don't have to pay for, so that's nice, it has
Bluetooth, it has USB-C, and the entire controller's
basically been renovated. Renovated, redesigned? It's probably a better term. So not only do have adjustable sticks, you have more options for
customization, you have new grips, this thing actually looks pretty dope but I actually don't think
we have a release date yet, it's soon, I think. To me, E3 this Xbox
seems very much focused on not only the next
generation of consoles but importantly on the games
that will actually be run there because put simply, these consoles are going to be very similar, right, the games are going to
be the differentiator and Microsoft is the
company with a lot of money and they're not afraid
to use it to buy studios such as Double Fine which
they announced today to make sure they are
really staying on top of this next generation of consoles. I mean, Phil Spencer put it very clearly, this next console is about
gaming, it's not about Kinect, it's not about video, it's
not about any of that stuff, it is about making sure this is one of the best
places to play games and from what I've seen so far it looks like they've done a great job, this is super, super exciting. Now, mind you, we have no
price or what it looks like or what makes this any different than PS5, but I do know this, make sure to subscribe for the next five years
of console comparisons.