- Hey guys, this is Austin. This was not my finest work. Now, less than $300, it
is a powerful computer. However, it leaves a
little bit to be desired, which is why today, I'm
going to be fixing it. Well, actually not today. I have one more thing I need to do first. - [Pilot] Welcome to Australia. The local time here in
Sydney is 18 minutes past. (upbeat music) - Asus recently sponsored
my trip out to Australia where I got to attend the launch of the ZenBook Pro Duo. It's very loud here! I did a full video on
this a couple months ago, but it is ridiculous. Not only do you have a 4K OLED, but you also have a secondary
display right below that. Both screens support touch, and since Windows sees
a dual-screen setup, everything just kind of works. You can throw your editor
across both displays or have tons of notes open at once. I mean, these ScreenPad Plus is seriously legit. Inside, it's rocking, well,
pretty much everything, including a Core i9 processor,
RTX 2060, WiFi 6, Thunderbolt 3, you name it. So if you're interested in one of the coolest laptops of the year, definitely be sure to check
out the ZenBook Pro Duo in the description. And huge thank you to ASUS for having me out for their event. All right, so we are back at Micro Center to do a few upgrades. Yo.
- Welcome back. - Thanks man, appreciate it.
- Good to see you, man. - So I think number one thing I wanna do is get a slightly better board. 'Cause last time, I went with A320. I was thinking like maybe an ASUS B450. - I know I got the B450M-A right here. - Oh okay, the Prime boards, I like these. Okay cool.
- What else? We got your board.
- Easy. Board, so maybe we should
go to power supply. - Possibly, yes. Which power supply did we get last time? - [Austin] Don't worry
about it, it's fine. - [Cody] Is it doing okay? I got the EVGA right here on sale. - Love it, done.
- For $39.99. - That is so much better.
- 500 watts, all power. - Honestly, I think that 590 actually might be the best call.
- Best call? - I mean $180, yeah, let's do it. - I do like this one a
lot, this is the Q300L. - I love the front of that.
- Yeah, that's sweet man. - [Cody] It's actually mesh
so you can dust it out easy. - Yeah.
- It's just a metal front. Put that back on. - I feel like the only
thing that's missing, and I can't believe I'm about to say this. - RGB?
- RGB. - [Ken and Cody] RGB! - Do you have like a couple strips that we can easily add
to the top and the bottom? - Let's take a look. So that guy's only $15.99.
- Okay. Oh it's magnetic.
- Exactly. - [Ken] Oh, no need for adhesive. - I've never used a magnetic RGB strip. Now I think we have everything we need to rebuild my worst gaming PC ever. - [Ken] Wait, I got something though. - What, oh no. Wait, where are you going? Oh no. Ken, stop. - RGB mount, oh no.
- Oh no (laughs). - Oh no (laughs). I don't know if I should
be saying oh no or oh yes. You don't get the full grasp-- - [Ken] Until you actually see it. Oh yeah, there it is. We can make the PC case blue like RGB. - Oh no, oh, I regret everything now. This is supposed to be about
fixing my worst PC build, not ruining it even further. - Ruining it?
- How is this ruining? - I feel like I'm getting
out numbered right now. - [Ken] I like him. (everybody laughs) - And so it is time to upgrade
my worst gaming PC ever. So if you guys are not
familiar with this build, well I mean it's not bad for the price. I mean we've got a Ryzen 5 1600. Perfectly respectable six core processor. We got GT 1030, little
bit on the weaker side. As well as we got like a 120 gig SSD. My main issue with this system is that, well, it doesn't have a case. It has a detonator. And also the power supply
is questionable at best. So let's do a little fixing shall we? And by fixing I mean, forget that this is what
it used to look like. I'm going to make it look much better now. So with everything we're
looking at about $600 including all of our RGB accessories. Not too bad considering that I think this should be a much less
explodey looking computer. (laughing) I forgot how lightweight this thing was. It literally weighs nothing. That can stay over there. - [Ken] Take this. I'm just gonna throw this in the garbage. Where it belongs. - So with that we have
our Ryzen 1600x processor. Now this is not the most
powerful chip in the world. However, we only paid $80 for this and at that kind of price
it's actually not that bad. So first thing thing I'm gonna do is start getting our new board together. Look at that. What an excellent thermal
paste application. And so, easy as that, we've got ourselves an upgraded motherboard. Next, let's toss in the, are you on your phone
while you're filming? - Yeah.
- Are you literally one-handing the camera so
you can like browse Twitter. Are you on the Roboraptor
account or something? - [Ken] I got DM's so
I needed to check that. - You got DM's? Well, I'm making a video right here. I don't know if you noticed,
this is real work, not DM's. - [Ken] Yeah, this just
all looks the same to me. We did this once already. - Now we did opt to stick
with the same eight gigs of RAM from the last system. Mostly for budget reasons. This was pretty cheap and it is super easy to upgrade this guy to
16 gigs when we need it. But at least for what
we're doing right now this should be plenty of an upgrade. Also, especially for a build like this, I just like going with like
a slightly smaller case. It doesn't really make
sense to waste a ton of room on your desk when you can have something a little bit cleaner. Oh dude look at this! Look how much room we have for
cable management back here. - [Ken] Oh look at that,
you can tuck in your mess. - Man, do you know what the funny part is? I went through all the hassle of building that stupid mining case. This is only like $10 or $15 more. - [Ken] Probably should've
just done that instead. - I should have just done
this from the beginning, man. I think all of these are mounting holes. - Wait, what?
- I can put it up and down in any orientation. Dude, this is such a clever design. So we'll leave the fan
there for right now. Next let's go ahead and
put the power supply in. I didn't even notice,
it's actually, it's sunk. Wait, what? It's like sunk in, that's weird. Look, so when I actually
mount the power supply. Oh, wait is there a bracket? No. What? - [Ken] No, that's a-- - [Austin] Oh you know what,
because it's not flush here, so you have to, right? - It's not, yeah.
- I think the power supply has to be sunk in a little bit, right? That's gonna be the final.
- Yeah that's it, yeah. - Oh I don't about that. That's weird. Okay yeah, that's the first thing I don't like about this case. Oh no, wait. Is that (sighs). Do you have to take the PCI covers out before you put in the motherboard? That's really dumb. Wait, let me see if I
can do it the lazy way. - [Ken] Looks like it's barely clearing. - No it's like scraping
the side of the board. Don't try this at home ever. There we go. That's how to fix it. Just bend it the other direction. So at this point we have pretty much all of our components in the case. Our Ryzen 5 1600. Eight gigs of RAM, the RX 590. As well as our B450 motherboard. The 256 gig NVMe SSD. The 120 gig SATA SSD. As well as our 500W power supply. And now really it's just time
to do some cable management and start thinking about how
we're going to run our RGB. (upbeat music) Wait, what are you doing? Wait, wait, what did
you, wait, what is that? What are you doing? - Don't worry about it.
- What is that? - Look, I set the colors appropriately. - [Austin] I asked you to finish the RGB. What are you doing? - I made the colors really great
and I'm like I had an idea. We color matched everything. It's like Miku colors, got Miku figure. We got our very awesome mouse pad from the wonderful Micro Center. - [Austin] They are not
sponsoring this video. - They are not sponsoring this video but they let us shoot there again. Thank you. And we also got this mousepad. Which I needed everything to match so we made everything match. (Austin groans) - So while Ken's over here tuning his RGB and playing with his little figures, I have gotten the PC all set up and ready. So I was able to do a
little bit of tuning. It's not really pushed all that hard but I was able to overclock the
Ryzen 5 to 3.9 on all cores. I was able to overclock
not only the memory but also the core frequency of the GPU. We're getting somewhere about
10% more CPU performance and about 15% GPU performance
compared to stock. And the nice thing is before
you put a figure in my way, everything was running nice and cool. But now my airflow is impacted by that. - [Ken] There's a significant
amount of volume in there for air to flow still.
- You're literally blocking. It's like almost directly
in front of the CPU. - No, it's fine.
- I don't know why you, I left you alone for like five minutes. - It's fine.
- I'm just gonna finish up the RGB.
- It's fine. - It's almost touching the fan. - [Ken] Here, here, here,
here, I got it, I got it. Okay so that didn't work for you. Alternatively, just put it there. - [Austin] That's better. Not blocking my airflow that
I've so carefully overclocked. - It's fine. You're thinking about it too hard. - [Austin] Well, actually I will say, from the front, it does look pretty cool. - [Ken] No, actually,
no, real talk though. - [Austin] It actually
does look pretty cool. - With the LEDs that we put
in here, you can actually see them a little bit through
the mesh design which is nice. This is a great case. Really, really good case. - Now that the Fortnite
apocalypse is over, let's see how it runs here. So one of the nice things about this is that not only do we have
that six core processor, but the RX 590 is not a bad
card especially for 1080p. We should have no problems. And because we're using
a 1440p FreeSync monitor, we can actually get a
little bit higher than that. Look, it's the Rewind video. I'm happy that there's a new Fortnite map 'cause that means that everyone else is just as clueless as I am. Okay so right now, we are getting 1440p at like 45 frames per second. So I probably wanna
lower things a little bit but because we're using
a FreeSync monitor, it actually looks pretty nice. Let me just quickly bump that down. 1440p high and we're
getting pretty much 60fps. Chug, chug, chug, chug, chug, chug, chug. Oh no. Wait, I don't wanna go down here. I just need to kill someone
with my super cool PC. That way, everyone will
know just how cool I am. What? I can hide. Yo, what? This is great. I'm just gonna hide in dumpsters
in Fortnite from now on. I made it so far and I
still haven't found anyone. This is great. Come on, fish. Come on, fish. Come on, fish. - There you go, get him.
- No, I don't like it. I've actually never made it
this far in a Fortnite match. - [Ken] Well you gotta confront him. - [Austin] Do I though? - [Ken] Yeah, you gotta put the pressure. - [Austin] What if everyone just dies? - [Ken] You gotta put the pressure. No, don't shoot the wall. Okay, yeah there you go. There ya go, you got him. Yeah, there ya go.
- Yeah, what, what? - Woo!
- Did I just kill someone in Fortnite, and there's
only eight people left? - [Ken] Well, pay attention to the screen, and let's see if you can
get your chicken dinner, or whatever the Fortnite equivalent is. (Austin hums) - [Austin] Don't mind me,
I'm just healing in a corner. - [Ken] Oh, there you go. (Austin cheers)
Wow. - Yeah! What's up, what's up? No you don't, no you don't. Yeah! What? Why is everyone bad right now? This is great. What the hell is going on?
- Are these bots? - There are only three
people left right now. No! Damn! I got multiple kills. I was third place, do you see that? I've never even gotten like top 10 before. I've gotten like one kill max. I got three kills in third place. Yeah, yeah, what's up? - Congrats.
- I'm gonna be like the kids. - Jesus Christ (groans).
- No, it's like. Is this it? Wait, no, you gotta do
the leg thing, right? - [Ken] (groans) Nope. Nope. Nope, hard no. - Look I was gonna play some more games but I think this really
all you need to know about the wonderful PC that has come from the ashes of, well, this. It was a questionable decision. It was something that didn't work well but thankfully it's been fixed entirely and because of it, Fortnite is now back. You're welcome, everyone. Thank you very much for watching this episode
of Austin Fixes (bleep) that he shouldn't have
done in the first place. - That's the video?
- Yeah, I think that's it.