Oh My god Here it is guys for the low low price of 13,000 US dollars I got the world's biggest TV smuggled out of China and let me tell you that was not easy I mean look at the size of this thing 115 inches there is no way you are sneaking it anywhere It came on a pallet so big we can't get it off the back of the truck guys I gotta give you an idea of the scale of this thing. Can we get a normal-sized human out here? Look at this The part about unboxing it on the truck that's a joke, you know, that was real We're gonna have to get this crate off if we're gonna get the TV on why can't we just put it on the lift? That's too big It's too big for the lift For context guys This beast is triple the size of the best-selling TVs in North America and you can't even get it here Why? Well China has put it on its no export list Give this the old Okay, I was kind of thinking, you know, there's probably some padding in the crate some extra it's right there You know, what's funny though is I've seen this IMAX enhanced badge on things including my laptop But this is the first thing I've seen it on where I'm like that makes sense Yeah Why aren't you available in North America Okay, we do have some theories about that we're gonna talk about them later Okay, I think I got it! Well, we wanted it to fall oh no, it's gonna fall it's gonna fall now and now I'm stuck Too wide for the truck Okay, so maybe we won't wait until later for all of these One of our theories is that it's simply too large for the logistics system that currently exists for transporting TVs around The world never mind getting it to the store. How is the customer supposed to get this thing home? Okay Now Getting this off the truck’s gonna be fun. The package is around 230 pounds. It's got a handle here though The bottom of the TV, oh, yeah, I totally is this is just in tape this whole so we need to have the wooden pallet Small problem. This is a lift over there. Oh wait, have we done the sponsor read? No, we haven't No Supposed to get into the basement a lot faster. Okay. Well, why don't we segue to our sponsor? Thorum check out their rings and watches made from unique materials like gibbion meteorite It's not too late to buy yourself or a loved one something special this holiday season So go to thorum.com and use code LTT to get 20% off. Small problem It looks like the TV was supposed to stay on This bottom pallet and we were supposed to remove the thing securing it to the other pallet now we have no real way of moving it because it's a slide off the top style box and We don't have new straps to strap it back together. One, two, three The driver said oh it's not too heavy Which I think says a lot about about the driver And a lot about us as well Because we're dying up here That's not what I expected to happen You raise me up Yeah, yeah, we're good How the hell are we gonna get this into the house? Do you have a cart? No. If this was in the shape of a barbell I could lift it Sure, Adam. Okay, how's that? We're on the pallet. You know what the good news is that when you buy this in China it comes with free installation Imagine if this TV got water damage before we get it in there. That's a like diagonal size. And then what's this? Kilogram so 171 that's that's like 400 pounds. Is that that must be the freight weight That's like for the entire packaging. This is 171 kilograms, which is way higher than what they had on the website Yeah, that explains why it was impossible to move. Yeah, because that's 400 pounds and that's a manufacturer date So it's pretty frickin new. Wow it’s pretty new this was made 52 days ago. Oh Linus, I have a news. Yeah? You definitely don't have warranty. Oh How do you know? It has to be TCL authorized with installation. We're definitely not TCL authorized TCL, please authorize us. Okay, watch out you're hitting the column on the way in you know what we can get all the way to what like 140 150 Inches before it wouldn't get through the door Too small. Yeah. Yeah, we're fine. Go bigger Wow, that's in. That's some nice cardboard juice that thankfully scraped off before it got in the house You got any more of those band-aids? No. Stepped on a nail. I just want to appreciate the scale of this thing How big do you think this TV is relative to the size of that box? 55 inches 65. This is a 75 inch TV The thing about diagonal measurements is that it's nonlinear a 65 inch TV is way bigger than a 55 inch TV and a 150 inch TV. Well It's stupid. What do you think of our new TV? Here here come help me try to move it Oh I think the TV is moving me. Okay there we go. It weighs almost 200 kilograms. Well I’m pretty impressed that we could move it at all then. I wasn't helping you did great Don't mind us It's worth noting guys that there are home displays that you can buy that are larger The difference is that for something like a Samsung the wall it comes in a multi panel assembly that you then Stitch together. So while there are no bezels, it's not really the same as this single pane of glass one piece display There's five tiers of energy label thingy. So this is like apparently top tier. Okay. Green. What does that even mean though? We haven't really talked speeds and feeds. It's Five thousand nits peak brightness. We have no idea what kind of window size that's gonna be but if it's even 5% 2% Yeah It's gonna be eye searing. So here on there it says 4 Candela's per watt a Candela is equal to a nit 5,000 nits that means that this TV can pull 1250 watts At this stage if we try to do the review of the TV in this video It's gonna be a feature film So this is just gonna be unboxing and we're gonna try it out and then I mean we're gonna Run this thing through its paces, right? Yeah I mean, it sounds like it's an actually incredible TV. Second video, by the way Speaking of second videos LMG.GG slash floatplane. We're definitely gonna have some extras from this one over there Hey, the idle wattage is only 0.5 watts. Okay, I'm not sure if I 100% believe that but if it's anywhere near that, that does away with one of our other theories for Why it couldn't be exported out of China, which was maybe that it wouldn't meet international energy efficiency requirements Oh okay, cool big reveal Wait, are we ever transporting this thing back to the office? You guys wanted this for a video wall for the virtual production Well, yeah, but I was kidding Really? I have a 3D projector screen in my garage. I haven't even installed yet. No way. No way Does it come with a box fort? Yeah Yo the TV in here is huge. Wow. Hey Linus, you just got a brand new room! Yeah Does it have VESA mounting? No. What? It does not. Are you serious? At least there was no evidence anywhere on their website of documentation that they have it They have a proprietary mounting scheme. Oh my. Look at the size of these screws. Look at the size of this foam. Hey Linus, yo, this is actually pretty useful. What is it? That's the marking for where you want the holes. Oh perfect. Let's hold on to that Holy crap, it is not thin. Wow She's a chunky boy. I appreciate this I hate, I hate thin TVs that are fat at the bottom It's just a lie. It's stupid make it thick the whole way put better speakers in. You heard that he likes them thick. Damn straight. Love you, Shea. dude If we were hoping that a lot of the weight of the box was the stand or something I Really hope that the stand isn't sold separately. Before you pull off this foam, there's one more bag- Whoa What are you buddy? You get a TV and some fun toys. You can't use that it needs a flared base It's very important. The the factory floor space just to pack this thing is nonsensical. Which actually was one of our other theories Maybe the volume that they can produce of this thing is so low that they just can't serve the market outside of China with it That and it's an unproven market. That's true. Will people even buy something like this with all the challenges that are associated with it? Look it. Whoa whoa hey first look It's so big By the way, I saw something on the back that I think you're gonna like. Check this out. Onkyo ultra-bass. Backfiring subwoofer what does this even mean? They call it a six point two point two system, so two subs and two top firing speakers I guess? You know I think they're really stretching the term If you can afford this TV, and you use your onboard speakers. I cut you. I like this grid. Wait is that, is this part of the TV or is this part of the alignment? That's the TV. I like it less than we did before. Oh They’re handles, whoa Genius! Oh wow and it's got a thing through it so you can One moment, please Are these like, are these like furniture feet? Adam I can't think about that right now. I'm busy putting handles on my TV. Oh it has base. It says it has the base. I don't realistically think we are getting this all the way on the wall today I think that's part of the reveal. I wasn't even loading it planning on putting it on your wall I didn't bring hardware like yeah I thought we would put it on the feet that I thought it came with ah That I hope it still comes with it. I hope it's coming Must be somewhere. We got we got one piece of foam left to remove I Really don't think that one contains feet Guys it occurs to me. We haven't had a look at the IO yet. This is oh wait. Oh, hey. How you doing HDMI port for scale? Oh my god, I Was kind of expecting this remember I talked about this and when we were talking about the video And I was like oh we should do like HDMI port for scale. It looks like mini HDMI I even knew it was gonna happen, and it's still it doesn't look like a proper HDMI port Technically they're all 2.1, but also they all have different specs Oh, that's because they changed HDMI 2.1 if you have certain parts of the spec everything's HDMI 2.1 now so the ones that are high bandwidth are number one and two at 4k 144 and 4k 120 and then HDMI 4 does eARC and HDMI 3 is like your I don't know you plug your Chromecast into it? Well, you're in China, so your Ali- Xiaomi box Xiaomi box there, okay. I like how HDMI really looked at USB and said yeah, that's a good way of naming stuff Is this a coax or an- They have an aerial. Oh an aerial yeah? Is there still broadcast television? No way, no way. It has an AV jack you could plug a composite input into this thing. Hell yeah. You better hope there's a good upscaler on this Could you imagine 1080p at this size even 4k at this size? Yeah, it's actually it's it's 38 PPI I've got the wattage now. It's a thousand watts 950 watts so they have these little hooks that come out So you can hang the TV and it has the weight like from the TV so then you can hook onto there And then they just fold back in Right, but did they include feet? No, no Okay This is a step-up and step-down transformer basically what it does is it takes whatever outlet you plug into and it will be able to output either 220 volts or 110 volts so it's easy to convert between either side if you're plugging in something that's only sold across the world. You know how many people have bought this TV from like the Taobao official store? Two. Really? One of two baby. Let's go Let's go I can’t believe they show that. Whoa Wow their splash screen looks like ass at this size It seems novelty sized Like it seems not real, you know? That’s a real TV size. The one that’s on the TV. Yeah 22 That's a 30 inch ass monitor. So we have the tagline the legend of the giant screen at the top of 10,000 elephants which Andy has translated basically what we assume that they're trying to say is that it's like It's like elephant sized TV, and it's like the peak of TVs it's like the best and the biggest Stealing Apple's branding, they're calling this an XDR display Extreme dynamic range Which is not true because the HDR spec goes up to 10,000 nits Still HDR still HDR. Here's the biggest one that was tough to figure out, an A plus plus butterfly wing star screen No, I don't know. Yeah, it's the structure of the LED panel thing that they have yeah So when we go down here to the butterfly section we discover that it's a VA panel Oh Which is totally common for displays especially a lot of TVs. Yeah, but I wish for gaming that it was not 144 Hertz Interesting I don't think I've seen a TV rated above 120 before oh yeah, that's right when I was looking at the ports Yeah, there's one port that I guess you could use a PC for the input and just manually configure? None of this explains why they can't export it from the country, so here's my theory It's because this is a micro lens array TV. Wasn't that my theory? What? But go ahead take it. Well, okay. I added to your theory anyway It's a micro lens array, which is a technology that is owned by LG and TCL is not LG But LG only has the patent for that in the EU and in North America They don't have it in China So TCL took their micro lens array tech which from my understanding Boosts brightness and viewing angle because it's basically a little lens on top of every pixel or every sub pixel? Every pixel. So maybe it's that it's too close. They don't want to deal with a potential legal battle so why even bother getting it certified to export from China, especially because Probably of all the other things we talked about already the good news is MLA patent expires in 2025 This is great TV placement Desktop? Oh my god, you need the phone number do I have to like We Chat login? Oh, no What it asked for a phone number. Does it have to be a Chinese phone number? Oh s***. Wake up Dad. It's like 5. It's 5:12 now. We got it. We got it. Thanks dad. What is this? It's pairing the pairing process for your remote Is this Google TV? No, definitely not Google TV. There's no Google in China They de-Google it but they can still use the Android. Yeah, so it might be Android TV, but not Google for sure Wow. Yeah, wait, why is this not working? Oh it is working I have it watching a 10-hour YouTube video of white Oh what the Adam this is totally non-scientific we're gonna test it properly we can also we should turn the light we should turn the other the filming light off. Yeah, let's lose the light. We probably got enough light in here anyway. Holy s*** it's at 42% Oh my gosh, look at how soft the lighting is This is 2400 lux. That's insane I can actually see the green blue and red subpixels like easily to the naked eye But at the distance that you would be viewing a TV like this No problem. In fact, yeah Why did I even say before the 4k is not enough because it's a function of screen size and also distance by the time You're so far away from it. It should be fine. Are you kidding me? It wasn't in bright mode This is so cool you can automatically set your HDR mode I have never seen that before not on a consumer TV Sure on a like a monitor for professional work. That is so cool So you don't have to rely on it to detect it. Black box bouncing in white screen screen test Oh dimming zones They claim 20,000 but that doesn't really make sense from what we know about other TVs from other companies that are being released next year Our guess is that they're taking the number of LEDs per chip and they're conflating that so if you divide it by the six LEDs per chip that they have on this TV Yeah, it becomes like more like three four thousand which is in line with what we expect from most TV manufacturers with that said There is some bloom around it But this is a worst-case scenario In content, I actually don't know if this is gonna be a problem I feel like a kid. Like I do feel like a child at this point Yeah, I feel like I'm at a different scale. Yeah, or like the first row of like a theater. I am actually really impressed by the convincingness of the surround so far Like holy actual s***. You can manually set it to Dolby Atmos, so let's see if that helps. Yeah not really feeling the rumble there. Nope It looks like we won't be evaluating sound right now but what we can do is put on something visually stunning like Disney's Encanto and see how it looks. What always blows my mind is here. Watch this. Just look at the rainbow over there and the particle. Okay, that looks incredible. I feel like the motion clarity isn't quite there compared to like I'm used to an OLED TV at this point And also, maybe it's just the scale makes it more noticeable. I think so. We're sitting really close. Oh that looks so good, though Wow There is no question that this absolutely crushes the experience of any projector though Yeah, you simply cannot, I mean in HDR, you simply cannot have highlights like that out of a projector. Wow Here it comes, here it comes If it was three years ago, I would say yeah, it's kind of competitive but the way that OLEDs have come down tough That's tough If we don't think about it in the realm of TVs think about it in the realm of projector replacement Well, then it's not that far off That is considered to be the bang for the buck HDR projector, it's like $6,000, right? That screen. That's another couple grand at that point. Do you spend another few grand and have a TV? Yeah. Maybe, man. You can't really put that in your living room and well watch it. Have your window on. Not at all That's another thing to factor in is I can install my own projector but most people are going to have a professional come and install their projector and given that installation which is also required here is included in the price. Well Hey, that's another probably at least a few hundred bucks if you want a professional to come in and do a really good job of it. From a more comfortable distance. You don't notice the motion clarity as much either I'm sure there was a better way to do this We're at 370 watts. What's going on right now? The splash screen. 780. That's the menu. Wow 800 watts Bright mode? In SDR. We're getting around 450 and then in HDR we're getting just shy of 800 watts from the wall which is absolutely wild even if you factor in that we have to convert from 120 volt to 220 or whatever it is I think I have more questions about this thing than I had when we started But I think that's gonna have to wait for the long-term impressions and review Just like you're gonna have to wait to hear about our sponsor Thorum the season of giving is in full swing and it's not too late to pick up a last-minute gift for that special Someone with Thorum might not arrive in time for Christmas, even though they ship within one business day But your gift will be so unique that you best watch out for any mistletoe That's still lingering around after the holidays check out their handcrafted rings made from unconventional materials like wood from whiskey barrels and World War two rifle stocks Every ring comes with a free Thorum silicone activity band and an American walnut wood ring box and they even make Minimalistic automatic watches using some of the same unique materials like Hawaiian koa wood and Gibeon meteorite That's the kind from space. Best of all they ship to most areas worldwide and all their products are covered under their lifetime warranty So check them out at Thorum.com and use code LTT to get 20% off If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe go check out the one where we installed this projector in the theater room I thought this was the end game Little did I know.