In February 1987, the Defense 
Science Board published a   report titled "Defense Semiconductor Dependency". It said that the superiority of America's 
defense depended on superior electronics,   which in turn depended on a healthy American 
semiconductor manufacturing industry. But throughout the 1980s, American 
companies lost share and leadership   in semiconductor manufacturing. 
The Americans had 67% market share   in 1975. But ten years later in 
1986, that had fallen to just 50%. To fix this, the report proposed a semiconductor 
manufacturing technology institute. It would be   partially funded by the Department of Defense and 
be staffed with people borrowed from the industry. This institute would work directly with 
American manufacturers to develop and   transfer new equipment so that America retains 
the lead in high volume semiconductor production. Thus in May 1987, we got that institute - 
"Semiconductor Manufacturing Technology"   or Sematech. In this video, we 
look at one of the most famous   and impactful consortiums 
in semiconductor history. ## The Japan Problem
The report from 1987 attributed America's perceived semiconductor 
decline to a series of factors. It pointed to the rise of the Japanese 
semiconductor makers like Toshiba,   Hitachi, or NEC. They highlighted the 
fact that those companies were highly   vertically integrated - consuming 
up to 20% of their own production. It also pointed out that Japanese companies 
had access to very cheap sources of capital.   Not only government subsidies, but 
also profits funneled into their   semiconductor divisions from the rest of the 
conglomerate. Samsung benefitted the same way. Concerns about Japan's semiconductor rise 
were fanned by American anxieties and   Japanese nationalists. One particularly 
infamous quote by Shintaro Ishihara - a   novelist-turned-politician who I shall 
euphemistically call an ultranationalist - went: > If Japan told Washington it would no longer 
sell computer chips to the United States, the   Pentagon would be totally helpless. Furthermore, 
the global military balance could be completely   upset if Japan decided to sell its computer chips 
to the Soviet Union instead of the United States. This quote came from Ishihara's 1989 book "The 
Japan That Can Say No". Ishihara was a novelist,   not an industry man and his words demonstrated   a profound misunderstanding of the 
semiconductor industry, its history,   and its capacities. But it nevertheless 
galvanized the American public towards action. ## The Manufacturing Deficiency Setting aside Japan, the report 
also double-underlined issues   in the manufacturing side of the American 
industry. Companies had strong advantages   in semiconductor design and in marketing. 
They also had the largest consumer markets. Japan however held a very strong edge in 
manufacturing. The key to leadership to   semiconductor manufacturing is high volume. The 
more wafers you have flowing through your fabs,   the faster you can work through 
issues and hit higher yields. The US semiconductor industry might have 
first grew up on massive purchases by   military organizations like NASA. But by 
the 1970s, the volumes in the military   market had long paled compared to what 
is available in the commercial market. And that side was where the Japanese strengths 
were - thanks to companies like Sony,   Panasonic and Sharp. Charles Sporck of National 
Semiconductor liked to show a chart projecting   America's worldwide semiconductor market share 
out to 1999 based on 1984 trends. By 1999,   the United States would have 20% 
market share and the Japanese 60%. ## Japan's VLSI Project Now, calls for the American semiconductor industry 
to band together have been around for a while. In the late 1970s, Japan used consortiums to   significantly upgrade their semiconductor 
industry. The most famous of which was of   course the Very Large Scale Integration 
project. It lasted from 1976 to 1979,   after which Japan dramatically raised 
their worldwide share in memory. Drawing the line between cooperative 
projects like VLSI and Japan's success   was easy. Senator J. Bennett 
Johnston of Louisiana said: > What we have seen in the Japanese 
model is that a consensual society   can do some things better than a strictly 
competitive society ... The great secret   is ... they [Japanese manufacturers] 
undertake long-term strategies The United States is familiar with R&D 
consortiums, where competing players work   together on research and all share what they 
learn. They had once been common in the banking   and railroad industries before the Sherman 
Anti-trust Act of 1890 made them illegal. ## Failed Precedents The issue with Japan's VLSI Project example is 
that a number of American semiconductor companies   had been banding together - sometimes even led by 
government - without very transformative results. In 1980, the Department of Defense 
established the Very High Speed Integrated   Circuit project - which was meant to leverage 
private industry innovations for military R&D. In 1982, the Semiconductor Industry Association 
or SIA had established the Semiconductor Research   Corporation - a consortium sponsoring 
long-term research at various locations. And then in 1983, we had the Microelectronics 
and Computer Technology Corporation - an R&D   consortium made up of a diverse set 
of American technology companies. These efforts failed to reverse the declining 
competitiveness of the American semiconductor   industry. So what is the United States 
going to do differently this time? ## Doing It Differently This Time From the very start, Sematech's 
overarching goal was to improve   the competitiveness of American semiconductor 
manufacturing. Nobody disagreed with that,   but there was plenty of disagreement 
over how to actually do it. Gordon Moore of Moore's Law thought 
Sematech should be a consortium that   directly produced memory chips in order 
to "take back" America's lost ground.   While the press hyped up such an idea, it 
was not only financially unviable but also   meant that Sematech would compete 
against some of its own members. Academics studying Japanese 
semiconductors came to the   conclusion that Japan's production advantage 
stemmed not from superior tools or tech,   but rather how they implemented 
those tools and technology. Previously American semiconductor companies 
always invested for the next "game-breaker".   Sematech's thesis revised that - semiconductor 
manufacturing excellence would have to be   built on top of "evolutionary" improvements 
rather than "revolutionary" breakthroughs. This was reflected in the technical goals that 
Sematech set out for themselves to achieve over   the next few years. First, hitting the 800 
nanometer node by 1989 on 5-inch wafers. Then after that, hit the 500 nanometer node 
on 6-inch wafers by 1991. And then finally,   their phase III technical goal, 350 
nanometers on 8-inch wafers by 1993. If Sematech hits all three phases on schedule, 
then they can make the credible argument that   the US manufacturing industry had 
reached parity with the Japanese. There were eight other objectives as 
well. Most of these involve developing   relationships with suppliers, testing equipment, 
and facilitating continued technology advancement. ## Sematech's Structure Sematech's founding member companies made up 
85% of the American semiconductor industry.   And at this time, they were specifically American   companies. NEC had a facility in the US but 
had their membership application rejected. Congress awarded Sematech $100 million a 
year from 1988 to until 1993. The State of   Texas - where Sematech would be based - put up 
another $50 million. And the member companies   themselves contributed another $100 million to 
reach the final budgeted number of $250 million. Sematech drew about 200 employees from its member 
companies, who rotated there for two year stints.   The organization also had direct hires for 
running administration and support tasks. In terms of governance, there was a board of 
directors that sets general direction and policy.   There is also an executive technical advisory 
board that recommends and approves R&D projects. As a whole, Sematech was quite a flat 
organization. You have project managers,   managers and directors - 
reporting to a single CEO. ## Finding a CEO Finding the right person to 
lead Sematech was critical. This CEO would have to handle the 
Defense Department and Washington   politicians. They would have to command the 
respect of the sprawling, ultra-competitive   semiconductor industry. And they also need to 
have significant technical chops of their own. Such a person was a unicorn. Most people 
of that caliber can either get much higher   salaries at the companies themselves or were not 
willing to uproot their families to go to Texas. Robert Noyce and Jerry Sanders led the search. 
Noyce was one of the statesmen of the American   semiconductor industry. A member of the 
Traitorous Eight who founded Fairchild,   he co-invented the Integrated 
Circuit and then co-founded Intel. At the start, Noyce did not want the job. He was 
60 years old, already had a job as vice-chairman   of Intel, and had personal commitments. So 
at the start, he took himself off the list. They at first offered the position to 
two people. Gil Amelio, who was then   president of the semiconductor division of 
Rockwell Communications. Amelio was close   to accepting before ultimately 
taking a promotion at Rockwell. He later joined National Semiconductor and 
turned them around. Then he jumped ship to   Apple Computer ... and went down in history 
as the CEO before Steve Jobs took over. The second guy was Bob Palmer, head 
of Digital Equipment Corporation's   semiconductor operations division. 
Palmer became CEO of the declining   DEC - overseeing thousands of layoffs and the 
eventual sale of a once-proud computer giant. The search for a CEO dragged on - a 
managing committee of three guys was   running the organization on a day to day 
basis - and confidence started to flag.   In perhaps a sign of their displeasure, the 
Senate passed a version of the appropriations   bill with just $44.8 million for Sematech 
rather than the anticipated $100 million. Noyce must have felt that Sematech would 
sink without immediate leadership. Some   time in June 1988, he and his wife 
went to Aspen for a vacation - where   he changed his mind and decided to be CEO, saying: > Damn it, it will be fun. It 
will be work, but it will be fun. Noyce's signing delighted everyone and locked 
down Congressional funding for Sematech. Charlie   Sporck, CEO of National Semiconductor, said that 
Noyce's signing basically saved the organization: > If Noyce had not accepted the job, Sematech 
would have faltered from falling off of interest ## The First Fab One of Sematech's first tasks was to build their 
operating fab on the University of Texas campus. This was done by Sematech's first COO 
- 30-year IBM veteran Paul Castrucci.   The son of Italian immigrants, he pushed 
hard to build a world-leading operating   facility - a shining example 
of America's capabilities. The fab was completed in just 9 months on November 
1988 at the cost of $75 million - an impressive   achievement. The fab's opening ceremony had 
much fanfare and even a flyover by some jets. Shortly thereafter, Sematech started its first 
technology transfer session - a workshop with   member companies on how to build a fab as 
quickly and cheaply as Sematech did. The   workshop went deep into specifics - revealing best 
practices for improving the speed of the build. It was the first sign of what would eventually 
come to be Sematech's way to upscale the American   semiconductor sector. As I mentioned, everyone 
knew what the main goals were - to help boost   American manufacturing. But people had 
different visions on how to achieve it. Castrucci and Noyce were two such people. 
And a few months after Noyce joined,   Castrucci resigned - bowing out so that Noyce can 
install his own consensus-driven management style. Turner Hasty took over as COO, a Texas 
Instruments veteran who can handle   administrative matters while Noyce built 
consensus and fleshed out the mission.   That mission soon came to settle on the 
American semiconductor equipment industry. ## The American Semi Equipment Threat The collapse of the American DRAM 
industry helped bring Sematech into   being. But Sematech gradually shifted 
its work focus from producing Dynamic   RAM chips or any other product for that 
matter - to manufacturing equipment. This was the number one concern. 
In 1979, the top nine semiconductor   equipment manufacturers by revenue 
were all American - with Fairchild,   Perkin-Elmer, and Applied 
Materials in the top three. But the Japanese made steady ground throughout 
the 1980s. By 1989, four of the top five suppliers   were Japanese - including the top, Tokyo Electron. 
Applied Materials was the lone American holdout. One of the reasons for this decline was the rapid 
acquisition of American producers by foreign   producers. For instance, the 1989 acquisition 
of Monsanto Electronic Materials - America's   last silicon wafer maker - by the West 
German company Huels AG for $250 million. Moreover, Japanese semiconductor 
manufacturers only really bought   from Japanese suppliers - usually one in their 
own corporate family. So the more share Japan   won of the semiconductor industry, the smaller 
the pie got for the American equipment makers. The biggest risk - the one that most alarmed 
Intel, National Semiconductor and the other   American companies - was that there was no 
guarantee that Japanese suppliers will give   them the best product. Craig Barrett at 
Intel told a story of a meeting in Japan: > I was at a SEMI meeting in Japan where the 
representative from Nikon stood up and said,   'When appropriate, we may even tell 
our foreign customers about our new   equipment.' ... Nikon happens to be our supplier,   and it's nice to know that 'when appropriate' 
they might even tell us about the next generation At this point, it started to become more clear 
to the people at Sematech that a possible way   to shore up American manufacturing 
was to help the American toolmakers. ## Ways of Working Together The idea of targeting manufacturing was an 
elegant solution to get the member companies   to work together without having the consortium 
compete with any of its member companies. There was a lot that they could learn 
from one another. Prior to Sematech,   every manufacturer in the semiconductor industry 
worked off of proprietary internal guidelines.   Anyone opening up their standards to 
others was trying to get paid for it. Sematech offered a neutral third party to 
circulate best practices. For instance,   Dean Toombs brought with 
him Intel's rigorous program   of qualifying equipment vendors 
before putting them into the fab. For the toolmakers, Sematech helped them solve 
a longstanding Babel problem. Previously,   a semiconductor company would approach 
a toolmaker with a special need. The   problem was that need was so 
specialized that the toolmaker   could not build what was essentially a 
custom tool and make their money back. So the first question the toolmakers always 
asked was something like "Is IBM in on this?"   What Sematech did to deal with this was to 
institute broadly-accepted standards that   are still flexible enough for individual users to 
customize in the fab to their liking. That way,   the toolmakers can spread their 
costs over a swath of customers. ## Define, Develop and Demonstrate, and Transfer Noyce's vision for how Sematech was 
to work was described as "Define,   Develop and Demonstrate, and Transfer". First, they wanted to "define" a set of standards 
in line with their overarching technical goals.   Then Sematech wanted to "develop" the materials, 
tools and technologies to help hit those goals. In universities around the United States,   Sematech set up 10 centers of excellence to 
research and locate interesting technologies.   They also struck deals with national 
science labs to develop new tools. Once those tools are developed, Sematech would 
then "demonstrate" those tools to companies   in the industry. If the companies choose to 
accept it, then those are transferred over. Starting in 1989 when Sematech 
signed its first contract,   the consortium struck deals with over a 
hundred companies. Some of these are in   the form of "joint development" R&D projects 
- co-working with an American supplier to   develop some future generation technology. 
Like for instance, working with DryTek in   Massachusetts on Low-temperature plasma etching 
or Silicon Valley Group on advanced lithography. Then there are the "equipment improvement 
programs", where Sematech works with the   supplier to upgrade existing equipment to 
meet manufacturing requirements. For instance,   working with Applied Materials to improve the 
Precision 5000 chemical vapor deposition system. Early on, Sematech struggled to get industry 
companies to accept these demo projects. Fabs   were not always excited to test experimental 
equipment on real production lines. That had   been one of the benefits of the Japanese way 
of doing things. A member of Nikon commented: > A customer gets early access and headaches. 
Before we do that, we've got to be convinced   our relationship will survive some of the 
bumps. It can affect your long-term business But Sematech pushed on and some of the grants 
started to succeed. One example project was   in 1990 between Sematech and Lam Research for 
a chemical vapor deposition process. Sematech   arranged for Lam's tool to be used within their 
own fab. The process was long and difficult,   but ultimately successful - yielding 
$150-200 million in sales for Lam. Another one was Genus Inc, which had worked 
with Sematech on a chemical vapor deposition   system for selective tungsten films. Genus 
management later told the New York Times   in April 1991 that the product failure rates 
declined and sales grew stronger as a result. ## Noyce to Spencer
On June 3rd, 1990 Robert Noyce unexpectedly passed away from a heart attack while at 
home in Austin. He was only 62. Noyce's passing was an unfortunate tragedy. 
Nevertheless, he had felt that his time as   CEO had helped Sematech get off the ground 
- attracting the necessary financial, human,   and political resources to carry out its mission. So shortly before his death, Noyce 
had already told Sematech that he   would be stepping away as CEO to focus on lobbying   and being a public face. He had drawn up 
a list of eight potential replacements. A search committee replaced him in October 1990   with the relative unknown William 
Spencer. He had worked at Xerox,   heading up their well-regarded research 
laboratory as their chief technical officer. Spencer joined the organization at 
a rough time. Members of the Ronald   Reagan administration had objected to doing 
the first Sematech project - pointing to the   government's previous attempts to regain 
market share, as well as President Jimmy   Carter's other attempt to develop petroleum 
alternatives with Synthetic Fuels Corporation. Synthetic Fuels received a budget of $20 billion 
to develop alternatives to imported fossil fuels.   But after six years, the company only spent 
$960 million on four synthetic fuel projects   with no outcome. Reagan ended the project when 
he entered office, seeing it as a failure. So Reagan had been skeptical about Sematech. But 
they still let it through. After he left office   and George HW Bush came to power, the elder 
Bush was even more skeptical of the project. ## The Lithography Blemish Thanks to Sematech’s efforts, American 
semiconductor equipment makers gained share   - registering an increase from 38% market share 
in 1990 to nearly 40% share a year later. But   this success was tainted by a significant business 
failure in lithography, particularly that of GCA. GCA had once been America's leading lithography 
maker. But their machines - which were not   patented - did not perform well. Nikon and later 
Canon copied and improved the tool, eventually   leapfrogging GCA to become number one and two in 
the industry with a cumulative 80% market share. The struggling GCA was eventually sold to 
the conglomerate General Signal. Together   with Silicon Valley Group - which had 
been earlier saved through the efforts   of IBM - they were the last American 
lithography companies in the market. Lithography is extremely important to 
the semiconductor manufacturing process,   a key driver of their increasing sophistication.   Fabs - even American ones - were wary of 
using what they saw as an inferior tool. Sematech set up an expensive, multi-million 
dollar project to improve GCA’s machines. To   lower the risk of adoption, Sematech 
offered to buy machines themselves   and consign them to fabs. Any learnings 
would be circulated across all the fabs. As I covered in a previous video. The 
company's products did indeed improve.   The XLS received great praise by American 
chipmakers like DEC, who chose them over   Japanese tools. However by 1992, GCA only held 
2% of the market. Without the necessary scale,   they were losing $4 million 
a quarter in the early 1990s. With the semiconductor industry 
going through another downturn,   and GCA missing a critical window 
due to an 18-month delay in 1990 in   producing i-line lithography equipment, 
they could not sustain any further. After spending millions of dollars - somewhere in 
the range of $30-80 million - Sematech ultimately   did not find it politically viable to intervene 
any further. And even with the government   promising some form of vague financial support, 
corporates like AT&T opted not to bail them out. So GCA eventually closed down their lithography 
business in late 1992 and early 1993,   the final factory in Andover, Massachusetts 
shuttered in May 1993 with 120 jobs lost. On top of that, just a month earlier in April 
1993 the only other American lithography   maker - SVG - announced a partnership with the 
Japanese Canon. That news was not well-received   in Congress. SVG later sold themselves to 
ASML after a botched 193 nanometer transition. ## Debate & Departures As its five year mandate came to end, 
Sematech wanted to continue their mission,   and a number of its member companies wanted 
to as well. Now Congress just has to agree and   renew its funding. Which would be difficult in 
an era of reduced Defense Department spending. In response, CEO William Spencer 
told Congress that he planned   to cut the total budget by 10% and 
reposition Sematech for a new role. And in December 1992, Sematech received 
two major boosts of credibility. First,   Sematech announced that they had achieved their 
Phase III technological milestone. If you recall,   Sematech wanted to hit the 350 nanometer node 
on 8-inch wafers by 1993. And they made it. Second, the Americans were taking share 
again. Japan's market share peak was in 1988,   when the Japanese had 51% and the US, 37%. The trend then started to reverse in 1991. Then 
end of 1992, VLSI Research - a semiconductor   research firm - issued a market report 
finding that US firms had pulled ahead   of the Japanese for the first time in 
8 years. The Americans - with Intel   and Motorola as leaders - had 44% of the 
market by revenue. The Japanese had 43%. VLSI Research attributed this turnaround in 
part to Sematech's efforts - pointing out   that improvements in American semiconductor 
equipment vastly improved reliability and   cut the Japanese advantage in yields 
from 50% in 1985 to just 9% in 1991. A 1991 survey showed that US semiconductor firms 
expected to purchase 40% of their equipment   from American equipment-makers. In reality they 
instead purchased 70%, a surprise to the upside. But not everyone saw value in Sematech. First,   Congress was unhappy with the 
losses in American lithography. And then there were several major defections 
from the consortium - LSI Logic, Micron,   and Harris. In 1993, one of the founding 
members LSI Logic announced their departure.   Their reasons being disagreements 
with the agenda - which they saw   as being driven by the big companies 
- as well as financial difficulties. Micron left after that - one of the 
last big American memory-makers. LSI   and Micron had not been a particularly big deal,   since they had been small at the time 
- less than half a billion in revenue. But that last departure, Harris Semiconductor, 
was felt as a major loss because their biggest   customer is the Department of Defense, whose 
budget was partially funding Sematech. Harris   focused on lagging edge chips for the 
military and so wanted projects to   improve reliability and ruggedness in their 
chips. Sematech could not accommodate that,   so Harris pulled out so that they can reallocate 
their dues for their own internal R&D programs. But President Clinton liked the idea 
of Sematech being an example for future   consortiums in the industry. He allowed for 
the funding, but cautioned in a report at   the time that the government would not be able 
to sustain the level of funding down the line. ## Sematech II In line with his comments, Spencer 
jettisoned the idea of Sematech   building and running fabs and showing other 
people in the industry how to do their jobs. Instead, they settled on a "roadmap" process - 
a way for all the members of the semiconductor   industry to systematically join together to work 
out the details of next-generation semiconductors. The roadmap will coordinate the required 
timing, identify potential showstoppers,   and intensify R&D to solve those showstoppers. Other organizations had set up 
their own roadmaps. For instance,   in April 1991 there was the NACS and their 
Microtech 2000 roadmap. Microtech 2000 had   brought together the splintered industry for the 
first time, a mighty achievement. Its goal was   to identify and map out the path to a 1 gigabit 
SRAM with 120 nanometer feature sizes by 2000. But members criticized the actual roadmap 
for being impractical. For instance,   it required an ambitious 1-generation 
leapfrog, and it ignored the factor   of cost and feasibility. The members 
could not adopt it and later that year,   the NACS dissolved and handed the 
Microtech roadmap over to the SIA. Later in November 1992, before Sematech had 
to go back to Washington for more funding,   they joined together with SIA 
to produce a ten-year plan,   the National Technology Roadmap for 
Semiconductors or NTRS. This one stuck,   and the industry even hit the next forthcoming 
note - 250 nanometers - ahead of schedule. Two years later, Sematech and 300 
other experts went to Boulder,   Colorado to update the roadmap. With the warmth 
of the 250 nanometer node beaming on their faces,   Sematech and the rest of the industry 
sought to accelerate the timing of new   node introductions for Sematech members from 
the historical 3 years down to just two. ## Acceleration Publishing this roadmap was a big but 
calculated risk. Having it be public   meant that everyone - including the Japanese - 
could read it too. Open-ness works both ways. Spencer recognized that in order to really drive 
change in the industry and hit the roadmap,   Sematech needed to get deeply involved in how 
member organizations take up new technologies. Let us go back to the process that 
Sematech discussed for inserting   technology into members' fabs: 
Define, Develop and Demonstrate,   and Transfer. It is the Transfer part that 
Sematech needed to take a closer look at. For firms to get the ROI on their investments 
- which came in the form of the dues on which   they pay and the people they lend - they had 
to get real tech really working on their real   fab floors. So Spencer focused on driving that 
and not just calling it a day with a report. These efforts succeeded. American equipment firms 
migrated to the bleeding edge of all areas of   semiconductor manufacturing - with the exception 
of EUV lithography of course. And until around   2003-2004, the industry kept up its manic 2-year 
cadence of introducing brand new process nodes. Per Moore's Law, a node shrink brings 
significant economic advantages. Smaller   feature sizes cut per-transistor costs, 
and gives the cutting edge node leader   a cost advantage over its rivals. So the 
Americans left the Japanese in the dust. ## Ending Government Involvement In October 1994, Bill Spencer reported 
that American microchip makers had nearly   48% market share of the semiconductor industry. 
The Japanese were rapidly fading with just 36%. Then shortly after Congress approved 
funding for the Fiscal year 1995,   Sematech announced that it would forego government 
funding starting in the 1996 Fiscal Year. It was a surprising move, but it 
was a calculated one. Congress   was philosophically against the idea of 
indefinitely continuing Sematech funding.   And the people at Sematech pledged from 
the very start that government involvement   in the consortium would not be so anyway. 
Japan's original VLSI Project lasted for   four years and that was that. Why should 
they keep giving more budget in that case? Spencer wanted Sematech to stick to their 
word and show the public that they were not   an entitlement project funneling government 
money to industry. It would set an example. There would be one more $90 million grant from 
ARPA for current technology projects. After that,   Sematech would rely just on its member 
dues as well as federal research grants   which it would need to compete for 
just like any other organization. After Sematech stopped taking government funding, 
the organization opened itself up to international   semiconductor makers the next year - ushering 
in a new era for its role in the industry. ## Did Sematech Save the 
American Semiconductor Industry? It is remarkable to think what Sematech has 
been able to do. A single organization brought   together the United States' biggest 
semiconductor makers into a neutral   setting to hash out big problems. 
Kind of like the United Nations. As a result, the industry settled on a set of 
widely accepted standards to help facilitate   lasting relationships between the semiconductor 
manufacturers and their equipment suppliers. But did Sematech really save the 
American semiconductor industry? At the heart of it, the industry saved itself. 
But I largely agree that Sematech made significant   contributions to American manufacturing. 
That being said, let's dive into it. To me, the crucial data point is the 
reversal in market share that American   semiconductor companies experienced 
from the mid-1980s to the early 1990s. Sematech did help with this, 
by boosting the reliability   of American equipment makers and 
helping to ship newer and newer   nodes. But there were other things 
happened during this period of time. First, the 1986 US-Japan Semiconductor Trade 
Agreement not only restrained Japanese sales   of memory chips into the US. It also 
required that the Japanese raise their   proportion of foreign-made components in its 
domestic market to 20%. By the end of 1992,   this had been achieved with US makers 
benefitted the most from these share gains. Second, this time period also covers 
the rise of the Korean memory makers.   We should not understate the impact of 
Samsung, Hyundai and others entering   the market - catching up to the leading edge 
and surviving through the market implosion. Not to mention the Taiwanese 
semiconductor makers like TSMC and UMC,   who started out in memory-making but 
ultimately left that market too as it   shrank from a peak of $40 billion 
in 1995 to $13 billion in 1998. ## Summing Up Sematech's Direct Contributions Sematech’s effects in the manufacturing space also   need to have other things 
to be taken into context. First, the aforementioned loss in litho,   with GCA a significant blemish. Sematech had 
invested a considerable portion of their R&D   budget into lithography. But while they were 
able to boost the company's technical chops,   they could not reverse its business struggles. 
When GCA shut down, that went all for naught. Second, the US memory chip industry 
was largely lost. Most of the former   players had been forced to drop out of the 
industry. Only Texas Instruments and Micron   were left. And Micron left Sematech in 1993. 
The shining example of American semiconductor   manufacturing was Intel, but they only ascended 
to their current status after they left memory. Remember Sporck's chart? The one projecting US 
market share out to 20% in 1999? 22 years later   in 2021, the SIA pinned the United States' 
market share in wafer fabrication out to   just 12%. So Sematech slowed the decline, but 
the direction has largely continued downwards. ## Conclusion The semiconductor industry has greatly changed 
since the 1980s. It is more consolidated. More   capital intensive. And more international 
than ever before. Sematech was the right   solution hitting the right problem 
at the right time. Whatever ails the   American semiconductor industry today 
- if it all does, since American design   still unquestionably leads the world - the 
solution will need to be something new.