India was one of the first countries to 
advocate for a global ban on nuclear weapons. Gandhi said in 1947 that nuclear weapons 
were a sinful and diabolical use of science. In the wake of the Japanese atomic 
bombings, India's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru voiced concerns that the bomb 
would be a weapon only for killing Asians. India wished for a world without 
nuclear weapons. Yet on May 18th,   1974 at 8:05 AM local time, India 
became the sixth declared nuclear power. India's journey to the atomic bomb 
is an interesting one. In this video,   we are going to look at how India got the bomb. ## Bhabha India's nuclear weapons program 
- its entire atomic program,   in general - begins with Dr. Homi Bhabha. His life is very well documented on 
Wikipedia. He also briefly appears   in my India computer video. So 
I will just go over the basics. Bhabha was born to a prominent and 
wealthy Parsi family. His uncle by   marriage was Sir Dorabji Tata - the son 
of Tata Group founder Jamshedji Tata. Growing up, Bhabha often visited his uncle,   listening to conversations with members 
of the Indian independence movement. Bhabha earned a PhD in physics from 
Cambridge - his thesis was on cosmic   rays - and regularly rubbed shoulders with 
Western physics legends like Paul Dirac. Then in the summer of 1939, he went to 
India for a holiday. While he was there,   World War II broke out in England and Dr. Bhabha 
found himself unable to return to Cambridge. ## Creating TIFR At first, Bhabha considered this stay in India 
to be a temporary disruption in his career. Bhabha's letters showed a desire to return to 
the United Kingdom or the United States. In 1940,   he wrote to Wolfgang Pauli looking for 
a chance to go to Princeton or CalTech. India was plunged in turbulence amidst its 
fight for independence. It was not exactly   the place for doing leading edge science. 
Bhabha felt intellectually isolated, and   his letters spoke of not having a single person 
to talk to about fundamental physics problems. But at around 1943 and 1944, it became 
increasingly clear that India would   receive its independence. Suddenly, Bhabha 
saw an opportunity to make a transformative   impact and help his new country overcome 
the disadvantages of its colonial past. And the trustees of the Sir Dorabji Tata 
Trust - the philanthropic trust of the Tata   family - sensed an opportunity 
to keep an eminent scientist. So in March 1944, Bhabha wrote a letter to the 
trust, asking for funds for a "vigorous school   of research" to do world-class science 
in India. The school would be centered   around an individual - himself - and be 
given autonomy to pursue its mission. This followed the advice of Nobel laureate 
A.V. Hill, who said that the United Kingdom   had created its own celebrated schools 
of physics and science the same way. Thusly, the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research   or TIFR was founded in 1945. Funded with 
a lavish budget that grew 15-30% a year   over its first two decades, it became the 
cradle of India’s atomic energy program. And through TIFR and his other connections, 
Bhabha made his way to Prime Minster Nehru. ## The Race for Ores India doesn't have a lot of uranium, 
but they do have a whole lot of thorium. Thorium is non-fissile, which means 
that it cannot sustain a nuclear chain   reaction. But thorium can be converted 
into uranium-233, which is fissile. One of the early challenges in India’s nuclear 
history was acquiring and controlling that   thorium. The Travancore principality was one 
of India's princely states, which means that   it was directly ruled by a hereditary ruler 
but indirectly ruled by the United Kingdom. The principality is blessed with 
a good amount of rare earth ores   like monazite. Monazite contains trace 
amounts of thorium. It was then India's   only known source of nuclear ore, though 
they did later find some uranium ores too. Travancore's government had long leveraged 
the monazite in support of its sovereignty.   In January 1947, Sir CP Ramaswami 
Aiyar, its Dewar - which is kind of   like a prime minister struck a three-year 
deal with the British for monazite access. Whether Aiyar genuinely wanted 
Travancore to be independent,   that is unclear. But the Indian government put a 
lot of pressure on the Travancore government to   join the union - Nehru even considered using 
air power in an April 1947 cabinet meeting.   Eventually, Travancore's ruler overruled 
his Dewar and India had its nuclear ores. ## Atomic Energy Commission of India In 1948, Nehru proposed to create 
the Atomic Energy Commission or   AEC of India with Bhabha as its chairman. The commission received substantial 
protection within the government. Formally,   the only person Bhabha had to answer 
to was the prime minister himself. The two often met privately. They 
had similar backgrounds - Cambridge   education and the like - and worked well together. Nehru was apparently most interested 
in nuclear science for its potential   to accelerate India's development and 
prestige. The country was in desperate   need of new sources of energy to power its 
industrialization and economic advancement. As for weapons. Publicly, Nehru was a 
fierce opponent of them. But he also   knew the reality of the world, and wanted to 
leave the option open. Thus Bhabha had the   autonomy to produce the infrastructure for 
such a thing if the time were to ever come. ## Finding Partners In its early years, India sought 
to leverage its supply of thorium   and other strategic minerals to its advantage. For instance, a series of agreements struck 
with France in 1948 and then 1950 for a monazite   processing plant as well as to do joint 
research on beryllium-moderated reactors. The latter is the first bilateral international 
nuclear project after World War II. Unfortunately,   its actual benefits to India's atomic 
program turned out to be quite small. In 1952, Bhabha writes a letter 
to Gordon Dean - chairman of the   American AEC - proposing a trade. He asks for: > "All declassified information on reactor 
theory, design and technology ... we should   be glad to have the detailed designs of such 
reactors that have been completely declassified,   together with all operational data that 
may have been obtained concerning them" The letter also asks for 10 tons 
of heavy water. And in return,   India would make available the same amount of 
thorium ore or uranium ore. Maybe some extra   beryllium too. A straightforward 
trade - knowledge for thorium. India's resources inevitably brought the 
Americans to the table. Relations back then   weren't particularly friendly, with the Americans 
chafing at India's stated policy of non-alignment. But the global rush for strategic nuclear-relevant 
ores was too important. Whatever uranium, thorium,   or beryllium the Americans 
can get their hands on meant   that they were denying those very 
same resources to the Communists. And the Americans were always afraid of the 
Indians deepening their ties to the Soviets.   Much more so after Chiang Kai-shek and the 
KMT lost the Chinese Civil War in 1949. There were certainly some learning moments in the 
Indian-American relationship. In July 1953 as the   Korean War staggered to a halt, the US Embassy 
learned that an Indian state-owned enterprise   was shipping 2 tons of thorium nitrate 
over to the port city of Tianjin in China. The Eisenhower Administration scrambled. 
America's Mutual Defense Act required the   US to automatically terminate all forms 
of aid to a recipient country if that   country was found to be trading in certain 
embargoed items with Communist countries. So this caused a big problem. Nehru 
bristled at the notion that America   could dictate who the Indians could 
trade with. And it took substantial   behind-the-scenes work to arrange a deal 
where the Americans would buy the thorium   at a price that America's atomic energy 
division considered to be way too high. And then there was Pakistan. A year 
later, the Pakistanis began courting   the Americans - emphasizing their strong 
anti-Communist sympathies. The Americans   were receptive, and the partnership only 
deepened India's antipathy towards the US. ## Criticism The AEC's power was not 
unlimited. Critics disliked   Bhabha's control over India's atomic institutes. The Indian astrophysicist Meghnad 
Saha was particularly strident.   He didn't seem to like the way India 
went about its atomic development from   the very beginning. Yet who cares about 
what a random scientist thinks, right? But what if he became a politician? In 
1952, Saha won a seat in the lower house   of the Parliament. He used his position 
to criticize the AEC's lack of results,   lack of transparency, and its close ties 
to private enterprises like the Tata Group. That last criticism makes a lot 
more sense with the context that   Saha was a Communist aligned with 
the Soviet Union. In 1954, he said: > India has got an Atomic Energy Commission 
and five years ago [1948] it had announced   that we were going to set up a nuclear 
reactor within five years. This is 1954   and the nuclear reactor has not been set up 
... I do not know how long it will take us   to make good this proposal. It may take 
us years to set up a nuclear reactor. Saha went on to argue that there was nothing 
special about the atomic scientist. And that   India was wasting its immense human 
resource advantage by pretending so: > There is a common prejudice that atomic 
scientists are a special class by themselves.   It is a great fallacy, it is an illusion. There 
have been no atomic scientists to start with. The   atomic scientists have been ordinary chemists, 
ordinary physicists, biologists and others. Saha was a lonely voice, but 
more than a few Indians shared   the belief that this pursuit of atomic 
energy would end up being an expensive   boondoggle at a time when money was 
desperately needed for other things. In its early years, the AEC had gotten itself 
a bit too caught up in theory. Insulated,   they had paid little attention to industry. A real   reactor was far beyond their domestic 
capability. Indeed, maybe decades away. Nehru still believed in the AEC but the public 
scrutiny pushed the AEC to show results. They   needed to find someone to teach them how to 
build their nuclear reactor or sell them one. But throughout the late 1940s and the early 
1950s, America's secretive actions had enforced   a sort of global silence on nuclear technology. 
The guys who had it were unwilling to share it. ## Atoms for Peace Then suddenly in December 1953, Dwight Eisenhower 
gave his "Atoms for Peace" speech at the UN. This was a momentous speech in nuclear 
history and I am not going to be able   to give it the proper effort that 
it deserves. But basically put,   Eisenhower wanted to present a more favorable 
face of atomic energy to the people of the world. He saw that the Soviets were getting to a 
point where they can start sharing nuclear   technologies with their allies. This could 
potentially create a very profitable export   industry for them. The Americans and 
their allies cannot compete until they   lifted their own norms of secrecy 
surrounding nuclear technologies. Eisenhower also wanted to dispel a growing 
taboo around these weapons - as well as   atomic energy in particular. 
He had embarked on an effort   to restructure the US Armed Forces 
- something called the "New Look". The philosophy behind the "New Look" leaned 
heavily on nuclear weapons - tactical bombs   in particular - to save money. Dwight believed 
that all countries would eventually obtain them,   and so we should mentally prepare ourselves 
to start using them on the battlefield. His speech kicked off an "Atoms for 
Peace" initiative that sought to supply   atomic equipment and information 
to other countries in the world.   The goal was to promote atomic energy 
for peaceful rather than war uses. Atoms for Peace abruptly reversed years 
of prior policy and opened the doors to   commercial competition in atomic energy 
development. Now suddenly it would be far   easier for other countries to gain 
access to atomic energy technology. One can argue the many benefits of this 
technology transfer and expansion. Yet   they must also admit that the dangers 
of non-proliferation were downplayed.   Additionally, the development 
of nuclear power and weapons   are two sides of the same coin. There is 
little stopping a country from switching. India's atomic energy - and 
subsequently weapons - program   directly and greatly benefitted from this duality. ## A Three Step Plan In response to public criticisms like that   of Saha's, Nehru asked AEC to hold a 
national conference in November 1954. The Conference on the Development of Atomic 
Energy for Peaceful Purposes, held in New Delhi.   There, Bhabha laid out a three-step plan. In the first step, India would build atomic 
reactors fueled with natural uranium. They would   do this with the help of foreign countries. These 
reactors would produce plutonium as a byproduct. Second, India would build a new set 
of atomic reactors fueled by a mix of   thorium and the plutonium generated from 
the first set of natural uranium-fueled   reactors. These second-stage nuclear reactors 
would then produce uranium-233 as a byproduct. So in the third and final stage, 
the AEC would mix this uranium-233   with more of India's thorium to feed 
what are called "breeder" reactors. These breeder reactors make more U-233 
fuel than they consume. So the idea would   be to combine this growing amount of U-233 
with India's abundant thorium to create an   essentially unlimited supply of nuclear 
fuel for reactors across the country. Bhabha's plan was designed for national 
independence and strategic optionality.   It took advantage of India's thorium reserves. And   producing plutonium - the second stage 
and centerpiece of Bhabha's plan - gave   India the option to eventually build 
nuclear weapons if they ever needed it. The conference solidified Bhabha's 
control over the sprawling Indian   atomic apparatus. And Nehru gave it his 
foremost support - increasing the program's   budget twelve-times over the next two years 
by 1956. Now we just have to get the reactor. ## The Swimming Pool Bhabha regularly wrote to his contacts around 
the world for aid in building a nuclear reactor. In June 1954, Dr. Bhabha wrote to Sir 
John Cockcroft - a friend, Nobel Prize   winner and head of the UK's Atomic Energy 
Authority. He asked for 5 tons of heavy water. At this time, the talk around nuclear 
was changing, thanks to Atoms for Peace.   People considered India to be the Third 
World's most developed nuclear power,   and thus a likely customer 
for a nuclear export industry. The British were keen to win them over. In his 
reply, Cockcroft said that he could not offer the   heavy water as their supply was already committed. 
But he did offer something else in his letter: > Have you considered the possibility 
of building a research reactor of the   "swimming pool" type? These 
have been described fairly   exhaustively in Nucleonics and other 
publications. They require, of course,   enriched uranium but it is possible that this 
could be made available to you from the UK After some negotiation, the UK sent 
over 6 kilograms of enriched fuel rods,   technical drawings, and data. In 
return, India promised to give the   UK special consideration when it 
came time to buy a real reactor. Bhabha made a friendly bet with Cockcroft that 
India would finish this 1-megawatt reactor - named   "Apsara" - in a year. Bhabha lost the bet by just 
a few days and ended up owing his friend a dinner. Nevertheless everyone was ecstatic. 
Apsara first went live on a typical   rainy August monsoon day in 1956. It was 
Asia's first nuclear reactor outside of   the Soviet Union. Nehru gave a speech at the 
reactor's inauguration in January 1957, saying: > We are not reluctant in the slightest degree 
to take advice and help from other countries.   We are grateful to them for the help which 
they have given - and which we hope to get in   future - because of their long experience. But it 
is to be remembered that the Swimming Pool reactor   in front of you is the work, almost entirely, 
of our young Indian scientists and builders Apsara was decommissioned in 2009 after over   half a century of operation. They are 
turning it into a museum now I think. In the Indian television dramatization Rocket 
Boys, Bhabha celebrates the achievement   by drinking a glass of champagne before 
jumping fully clothed into the reactor pool. I ... I don't think that happened. It is 
pretty funny that they put all this work   and effort into perfectly recreating 
the old Apsara reactor and control   room. And then their script has Dr. 
Bhabha jumping into reactor water. ## Canada In August 1955, the UN held its first 
Atoms for Peace conference in Geneva. The event attracted 25,000 scientists 
from countries like Canada, the UK,   the Soviet Union and the United States. 
Many nuclear secrets were exchanged. In light of political sensitivities, the 
conference chose Dr. Bhabha to serve as its   president. It was an immense honor that cemented 
Bhabha as the country's leading nuclear scientist. During the conference, the Canadians 
approached India with a proposal to   transfer one of their research reactors. 
Like the British, they wanted to build a   thriving export industry and gain favor 
with the leading potential customer. After negotiations, the final arrangement 
was for Canada to build a 40-megawatt heavy   water reactor in India - called the 
Canadian-Indian Reactor, US or CIRUS. Canada covered all the foreign exchange costs - 
about $14 million. The United States provided 21   tons of heavy water for the facility - ergo 
why the "US" appears at the end of the name. Canada did at first ask that the fuel be 
held in international custody. However,   Bhabha fiercely rejected it, declaring that India 
had the inalienable right to hold its own fuel. He   never believed that international safeguards 
could ever stop a country's progress towards   a bomb and morally criticized those who tried to 
create a world of atomic "haves" and "have-nots". So in the end, Canada did not attach any strict 
restrictions on the technology other than   a pinky-swear promise to only use the reactor 
for peaceful purposes. No inspections allowed.   Work on CIRUS began in 1956. It went critical 
in July 1960 and hit full capacity in 1963. ## CIRUS As it turns out, CIRUS's design encouraged the   production of large amounts 
of weapons-grade plutonium. Uranium fuel rods in the reactor 
are bombarded with neutrons,   creating plutonium-239. But if the 
rods are left in there too long then   the neutrons will create another 
plutonium isotope - 240 and 242. Plutonium 240 and 242 are not useful 
for weapons. 242 is not as radioactive   and not fissile. And 240 is apt to 
something called "spontaneous fission",   which causes a premature release 
of energy when we do not want it. So if we want that sweet 239 then we 
need to take out and replace the rods   before they get "overcooked". 
CIRUS's design allowed us to   do that while the reactor is still 
operational - an obvious benefit. Canada supplied similar reactors to 
other countries. Many years later,   their "peaceful" nuclear program suffered a 
titanic loss of face when it was discovered   that their reactors helped contribute 
to nuclear weapons proliferation. Though, I don't want to blame Canada here. 
They weren't alone in their optimistic   thinking. In the same time period, the 
United States was funding and building   a nuclear power plant in Tarapur, north 
of Bombay. Different design that was less   apt for producing plutonium but 
also with very few safeguards. ## Phoenix At the same time, India embarked on building a   plutonium reprocessing plant 
in Trombay called Phoenix. The plant can extract plutonium from spent 
uranium nuclear fuel like that from CIRUS. The plant was indigenously built 
with the help of an American company   called Vitro International - which 
worked on the Manhattan Project.   Vitro transferred over the plans for their 
reprocessing plant legitimately and without issue.   Such a transfer would not be possible today but at 
the time, regulators didn't know its significance. Thanks to these two facilities, India now 
had their pathway to a nuclear weapon,   technically. By 1962 - maybe even 1961 
- they knew that they could eventually   scrape together enough weapons-grade 
plutonium for a bomb within a few years. This probably explains the timing 
of the 1962 Atomic Energy Act,   which Nehru very hastily passed in September 
1962 over the complaints of Parliament members. The bill locked down all information about 
the Indian nuclear program. It also granted   the government the legal rights to mine and seize 
whatever land it needed for nuclear development. And when the reprocessing plant Phoenix 
went live sometime in June 1964,   the Indian government knew they 
were about a year away from having   the 5-10 kilograms of weapons-grade 
plutonium necessary for a test bomb. ## Hesitancy So if India had the materials for a bomb by 1965,   why did it take so many more 
years to actually produce it? Essentially because Nehru and other 
influential groups of the Indian people   were against it. They certainly made 
the efforts to keep their options open,   but hesitated in actually pursuing the weapon. Throughout the summer of 1962, various clashes on 
the disputed Sino-Indian border escalated. Those   clashes finally blew up on October 20th 1962 - a 
month after the new Atomic Energy Act was passed. The People's Liberation Army 
launched a series of attacks,   overrunning India's weakly held positions. 
The “war” went on for about a month until   Zhou Enlai unilaterally announced a 
cease-fire and the fighting stopped. The Sino-Indian War of 1962 was 
a humiliating national loss for   India. It motivated them to reflect and 
greatly work to improve their defense   capacity - doubling the military budget in 
1963 with additional increases thereafter. For the first time, a party in the Parliament 
- the right-wing Jana Sangh Party which was   an ancestor of today's ruling Bharatiya Janata 
Party - publicly asked that India build the Bomb. Yet Nehru did not move forward with 
the bomb. He increased state support   for the atomic programs - raising 
the 1963 budget 76% - which kept   their options open. But he stood firm 
on not actually going there, saying: > On the one hand, we are asking the nuclear 
powers to give up their tests. How can we,   without showing the utter insincerity 
of what we have always said,   go in for doing the very thing which we have 
repeatedly asked the other powers not to do? Nehru's health had started to decline 
in 1962. He never recovered and passed   away two years later in May 1964. Nehru until 
his death always believed that making atomic   bombs would not help India's growth. Though he 
knew that it might someday become necessary,   he disagreed with Dr. Bhabha on 
what that day might look like. A new administration led by Lal 
Bahadur Shastri took over in June.   Shastri immediately faced a new duo 
of threats - Pakistan ... and China. ## China and Pakistan India and Pakistan have long been at odds with 
each other. I will omit their shared history. The US gave military aid to Pakistan, which 
irked India. But the 1962 Sino-Indian war   brought India and the United 
States much closer together,   which alarmed Pakistan. So they 
counterbalanced by cozying up to China. In December 1962, Pakistan and China 
publicly delineated their border.   A few months later in February 1963, their 
foreign minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto went to   Beijing to sign the agreement. Chinese-Pakistani 
friendship only agitated the Indians yet more. On September 29th 1964, the Americans began to 
tell the public that a Chinese nuclear weapons   test was imminent. The Chinese had been 
clear about working on a bomb since 1958,   and once the Soviets started 
helping them it became inevitable. So the Indians had plenty of forewarning. But 
now that the test was actually happening, it   deeply impacted the Indian political class and the 
ruling Congress Party split over how to respond. ## The Debate Dr. Bhabha led a faction of people 
agitating that India go build the bomb. On October 4th - 12 days before the 
Chinese test - he visited London   and told journalists there that India was 
just 18 months away from a nuclear weapon, adding that "but I do not think such a 
decision will be taken". Not so subtly,   the doctor was pushing to make the bomb. On October 16th, the People's 
Republic of China fired their bomb. US President Lyndon Johnson 
tried to play down the issue,   saying that it was a "crude device" - 
which it was not - and tried to reassure   India - without solid guarantees - 
from pursuing a weapon of their own. Debate raged on inside India itself. In 
the October 26th issue of their magazine,   Jana Sangh party escalated 
their rhetoric for a bomb: > The eunuch Government decided years 
ago in its ahimsic [non-violent] idiocy   to spend crores on nuclear power but not to 
use the same crores on developing the nuclear   bomb. We had the chance to do it before China 
did it ... In our criminal folly we missed it In late October, 2 weeks 
after the Chinese bomb test,   the Indian Express did a survey of Indian elites. Responders believed Bhabha’s assertion that India 
was about 18 months away from a bomb - which was   likely an exaggeration - but urged responsible 
thinking not to rush into such a thing. Many cited the huge costs of pursuing a nuclear 
weapons program amidst rising inflation and   food shortages. India had budgeted 28% 
of its total national spend in 1964 on   defense - $1.8 billion. The atomic program by 
itself, about $63 million or 1% and rising. Though Bhabha had anticipated this. 
In a speech on October 24th at the UN,   he publicly said that 50 atomic bombs 
would cost just 10 crores or $21 million. 50 H-bombs would cost 15 crores or $31 million. 
Evidently less than a single commercial plane.   The number wasn’t dead wrong but 
it was misleading as it excluded   the costs of reactors and other infrastructure. And unless India wanted to try 
delivering that bomb on wheelbarrows,   they needed a capable nuclear bomber fleet too. The elites in the Indian Express survey 
also disputed the claim that China's   nuclear weapons were even relevant to India. R. 
K. Khadilkar of the ruling Congress Party said: > This bomb is not directed towards India ... It 
is directed at the world powers, the superpowers   ... It is directed against the nuclear monopoly 
of the western powers and not towards India A reasonable analysis echoed by many others 
in his party, who noted China's restraint   during the 1962 war and cited Mao's own quote 
that the nuclear bomb was a "paper tiger". Ultimately for Shastri, the more important 
issue for a democracy like India was solving   the ongoing food shortage crisis. Most 
Indians don’t necessarily care about bombs. But they most definitely care about 
food. So Shastri continued to advocate   for a non-bomb policy and perhaps 
a nuclear umbrella from the West. But he made sure to mention a 
program of using nuclear weapons   for "peaceful purposes" kind of like 
the US's Operation Plowshare - using   nukes for making harbors and stuff. The 
Soviets had a program of their own too. ## The Indo-Pakistani War of 1965 Over 17 weeks in 1965, India and 
Pakistan fought an intense war. It caused thousands of casualties and 
had wide-ranging political implications   in all of Asia. And it brought the threat 
of Pakistan back to the forefront in India. During the fighting, the Chinese - who 
backed the Pakistanis - demanded that   the Indians halt their progress or risk 
nuclear retaliation. Shastri denied their   ultimatum and China blinked, 
drawing back on their threat. The UN mediated a ceasefire and the Soviets 
mediated a peace. The Johnson administration   halted military exports to both India and 
Pakistan, which pissed both of them off.   It also obliterated trust that the 
West would grant a nuclear umbrella. Indians at home seized the war as 
another impetus to build a bomb.   China's threats - though parried - were 
perceived as bullying. And with the West   philosophically turning away from India, 
India could only depend on themselves. These questions came in the midst of 
political turmoil. In January 1966,   Shastri died suddenly of what we presume to be a   heart attack. Indira Gandhi - Nehru's 
daughter - took over as Prime Minister. On the day Gandhi was sworn in as Prime 
Minister, Bhabha passed away in a tragic   plane crash at the age of 56. He never lived 
to see India become a nuclear weapons power.   The two deaths left a massive 
void in India's nuclear policy. ## Dual Policy Gandhi appointed another Cambridge-educated elite Vikram Sarabhai to take over several of Bhabha's   posts - including secretary of 
the Department of Atomic Energy,   which now managed the sprawling atomic energy 
and weapons programs including the AEC of India. He is perhaps best known as the 
founder of the Indian space program. By this time, the rest of the world 
presumed that an Indian nuclear weapon   was imminent. US Secretary of State Dean 
Rusk conducted a study in March 1966 which   concluded that India would detonate a 
bomb of their own within a few years. Indeed, it is likely that Shastri and Bhabha 
initiated a peaceful nuclear explosion program   in 1964 after the Chinese detonation. But 
Bhabha's death stalled the effort for a while. Then in 1968, scientists at the Bhabha Atomic 
Research Center or BARC - one of the research   centers within the AEC - started work on a 
practical implosion-type plutonium bomb design. This project was initiated by the AEC's 
new chairperson Homi Sethna - who had   led work on Project Phoenix, the 
plutonium reprocessing plant. Over the next few years, a team of 50-70 
scientists led by R. Chidambaram worked   on the design and sourced the chemical 
components for a bomb. Chidambaram would   play a major role in India's nuclear 
weapons efforts many years later. Sarabhai - nominally Sethna's boss 
- fundamentally did not like nuclear   weapons and doubted their practical benefit to 
Indian society and national security. He instead   advocated for a large nuclear reactor expansion 
program for the benefit of ordinary people. On the other hand Sethna saw no problems with a 
peaceful nuclear detonation. He wanted to do it.   Sarabhai must have found out 
about the effort eventually,   but for whatever reason he did not stop it. 
Perhaps because he shied away from conflict. When he too passed away from a heart attack 
in late December 1971 at the age of 52,   it took away the last large political 
obstacle to at least a nuclear explosion test. ## The Explosion The nuclear bomb's basic design 
was completed at the end of 1971. Then in January 1972, momentum began 
towards a real detonation. That month,   the technical teams at BARC begin 
preliminary work on putting the   device together. Vital component work 
began a few months later in the spring. In September 1972, Homi Sethna said 
that he received the formal go-ahead   from Indira Gandhi to finalize the device and find   a test detonation site for a potential 
underground peaceful nuclear explosion. Technical work consumed the organization over the 
next few months. In March 1973, they fired the   detonation system to confirm whether an implosion 
was indeed possible. It worked, a big milestone. The chosen test site was the Thar desert 
in the northwestern state of Rajasthan.   Dr. Sethna recalls having to clear the 
desert of deer, which I appreciate. In May 1973, the 61 Engineer Regiment 
of the Indian Army was ordered to dig   an underground shaft for a "seismic experiment". At first they refused. They were used to digging 
bunkers, not weird L-shaped shafts for mysterious   experiments. They held out until October 1973, 
when the Chief of Army staff G. G. Bewoor   personally told the regiment that Prime Minister 
Gandhi herself was ordering them to dig the shaft. In January 1974, the regiment accidentally hit 
an aquifer which filled the shaft with water.   A new site had to be found, 
delaying the test by a few months. The shaft was finally completed in early May. 
Around then, a meeting was held to make a final   decision. The discussion was heated, but the Prime 
Minister ultimately decided to go forward with it. So on May 18th 1974, they fired it. The 
explosion had originally been scheduled   for 8 AM but was delayed 5 minutes due to 
a faulty Jeep engine. Dr. Sethna - who was   there at the time - recalls, "It was a 
sense of relief ... it was all over". ## Gandhi Prime Ministers Nehru and Shastri 
brought India to the brink of the bomb. But it was their successor Indira 
Gandhi who took the final step to   its detonation. She was also a 
proponent of nuclear energy but   in 1966 seemed firmly against a weapon. 
So why did she give them the green light? We are not sure. She was a generally 
inscrutable person. Raja Ramanna,   who worked under Dr. Bhabha and led 
the technical team at BARC, recalled: > "She didn't speak in the meetings. She listened 
and then decided - that's all ... Mrs. Gandhi was   a somewhat impenetrable mind. It's possible 
she thought she would gain political benefits,   but it's difficult to say what was on 
her mind. She said, "Let's have it." Later on, she tells the writer 
Rodney Jones in an interview: > The Peaceful Nuclear Explosion was 
simply done when we were ready ... we   did it to show to ourselves we could 
do it ... we did it when the scientists   were ready .. How could it have been 
political? There were no elections   coming up ... it would have been useful 
for elections. But we did not have any. So the way she put it, the scientists 
finished the bomb. They wanted to see   if it works. So let's go see 
if it works. Simple as that. Perhaps we take her word for it. 
India did not do another detonation   after that first one. They didn’t 
make strident efforts to turn the   device into a real weapon nor did they 
build bombers and missiles thereafter. Peaceful Nuclear Explosions were in vogue 
at the time. The US and the Soviets had   their own campaign going as well - firing at 
least 70 detonations combined before India's. We can probably call it a Peaceful 
Nuclear Explosion - especially   considering that the Indian Army 
was largely uninvolved. But the   lack of official information 
has triggered some speculation. ## Circumstances It was a time of rough relations 
between the US and India. In 1971, India and Pakistan fought 
another war over East Pakistan. India   won the war in late December 1971 which 
created the new country of Bangladesh. As the war played out, on December 10th 1971, 
President Nixon ordered the Seventh Fleet led   by the nuclear powered aircraft carrier 
USS Enterprise to enter the Bay of Bengal. The Enterprise was presumed to be armed with 
nuclear weapons. Various people then speculated   on Nixon's intentions. Maybe the Americans 
were going to intervene on behalf of Pakistan? We now know that Nixon did it because 
he thought that the Chinese were going   to intervene on the side of the Pakistanis. 
Nixon thought that Chinese intervention would   then have brought the Soviets into the 
fray too and he wanted to dissuade that. Of course, that was not going to happen. The 
Chinese stayed out of the matter this time. But   members of the Indian government - Gandhi perhaps 
one of them - saw the carrier’s presence as a form   of nuclear intimidation. So one can speculate the 
test was a sign of India's refusal to be bullied. The timing certainly works. Like I said 
earlier, real government momentum towards   the detonation began in early 1972 after 
the American aircraft carrier's arrival. And then there were Nixon's groundbreaking, 
world-changing overtures to China,   culminating in a visit to the Mainland in 1972.   India must not have felt good seeing the United 
States and China improving their relations. And then there was the domestic politics. 
Despite what Gandhi said about elections,   the detonation had been quite popular in India 
as a source of national pride. It consolidated   her political power at a time when opposition 
had started to build against her government. ## Conclusion Regardless of the reasoning,   the 1974 Indian nuclear explosion had 
far-ranging effects on non-proliferation. India was the first country in the 
world to use civilian nuclear energy   technology to make a bomb. New efforts 
in controlling nuclear technology were   thereafter implemented to try and make 
India the last such country to do so. There was immense international 
backlash from countries like Canada,   which surprised both the Indian 
scientists and the government. So India did not fire a second 
peaceful nuclear explosion. It would   be two decades before they started 
producing actual nuclear weapons. Nevertheless, India as a Great Power 
asserted its right to the Bomb. Throughout   all the twists and turns of the program's 
long history, that part never wavered.