- I hate both of you, both of you. - [Ken] Are you embarrassed yet? (upbeat music) - So last year I did a video on this, the quite literally lowest spec, worst brand new PC you can buy. Well, lo and behold, after taking a trip to our
friendly local Best Buy, there's an upgraded model that
cost of whopping $10 more. So let's find out if second time's a charm or if... $360 for a brand new
all-in-one is still a bad idea. You know with the system like this, you have to keep your
expectations somewhat low. We're looking at a
low-end Intel processor. There's not a lot of RAM,
not a lot of storage. I mean, who buys this system right? Sort of like businesses who
want a bare basic system. You know, there's probably
a lot of grandmas out there who don't need anything more than me able to browse Facebook. I mean- - [Matt] Tech YouTubers are
like making the same video. - How dare you, Matt? Let's see what we get for 360 bucks. I'll immediately say here's
some incredibly nice foam. That's probably worth like $9 right there. - [Ken] Now uh... Yeah. Yeah. - Here's the system itself. Now, one of the things that really drew my
attention to this is that they have used this same
chassis for other systems. So unlike the plastic fantastic over here, this actually has what
seems to be a metal stand and you can actually buy
fairly expensive versions of this all-in-one. - [Ken] You know, this
actually looks very similar to the iMac. - Do we just get a $360 iMac? - [Ken] No, no, we did that. - Oh, that's actually pretty good. No wait. No- - [Ken] I hate that a lot. - So there's bezels on three sides. - [Ken] What! I mean, it looks better than this though. You gotta admit that. - [Ken] No! - Absolutely. - [Ken] Absolutely not. - Do you rather has
this chunky white bezel all the way around compared
to a slightly weird looking- - [Ken] Look- - Put a piece of tape right here. - [Ken] Look. - Oh my- Really? - [Austin] Is actually the
thing you're doing right now? - [Ken] Mm-hmm (affirmative). - Okay. All right. Hey, Ken! - I know it's a little problem
with your creative fix. Look at my mouse cursor. Oh, where did it go? It's underneath the tape. - [Ken] Well. So I think
they actually figured that since the task bar is black that no one would notice that- - Yeah, that looks fine. Guess what? When you're
actually using it looks fine. - [Ken] No, it doesn't. - [Austin] It looks fine. - [Ken] All your icons
are touching the bottom. - [Austin] Your icons
are touching my bottom. But look at these two side by side, right? Clearly they're similar but
the design here is a lot nicer. It's more angular. You've got black bezels
instead of the white. You've got the speakers
I assume down here. You've got the actual metal stand. It's got four USB ports, HDMI, ethernet. There is a slot for an optical disc drive, but there's nothing in
here unlike the original, which does have a full disc tray in here. So I guess you're losing
the optical drive. That's an optional
accessory that your $360 does not get you. We also of course have the camera, which I'm gonna try this next, cause I think this camera might actually not be
complete garbage town. - [Ken] That's actually
kind of impressive- - [Austin] Yo! That's a good webcam. I mean, I will say, just to my eye, looking at the screen here,
it looks totally reasonable. 720p, a little bit fuzzy. I really don't know how the
audio is gonna sound but I mean- - That's pretty good. - [Austin] Something else we'll say. So we've got that J4025 processor. It's nothing special, it's only dual core. 4 gigs of RAM. Supposedly you wanna crack it open, which I don't think it's a good idea. You could add another 4 gigs of RAM. So there's apparently one
slot open on the inside. That's interesting. It does show it's sodium so directly there's a little bit upgradability. You also do have a proper 120 gig SSD. That's nice because if
I move over... fine, I only have one mouse and keyboard so I'm just going to move this over. - [Matt] Almost like we have
some mouse and keyboards, you just don't wanna get 'em. - [Austin] That's fine. I'm just gonna plug this in over here. - [Matt] Literally, in
the drawer right there. - [Austin] For context,
on paper, this is an A4, it's dual core with
slightly high base speed, but it is very slow. Also 4 gigs of RAM although
this one had no expandability and a hard drive that is just sooooo slow like oh my God. So... part of the reason that companies such as Hewlett Packard are
able to sell a computer, brand new with a screen
and keyboard and everything for 360 bucks is by bundling bloatware. And I'll tell ya, it feel
a little slow right now. What's eating up all my CPU? Wonder what it is. Wonder what it is. - [Ken] Wait Hewlett Packard? - [Austin] Yeah, HP. Did you not know that's
what HP stands for? - [Ken] Thought it meant hot poop. - (both laugh) Like these two PCs (laughs). - There's a bunch of stuff
I want to dig into here. Is the windows 11 update assistant live cause I know they had
taken it down for a bit. Can I download that? Coming soon. Oh, so it's not available. I'm pretty sure this is
going to have TPM though. In fact, actually I can check to see. Yeah, there we go. So this processor is listed
as compatible with Windows 11. So I guess that's a good thing
spreading around really well, but it does run it technically. Let's- Let's try watching
a video real quick and see how that works. - [Ken] Yep. - [Austin] So that's a 60% volume. - [Ken] That's actually pretty good. - [Austin] That sounds great. I'm not going to say that
we've cracked the code and we found what secretly the
greatest laptop slash desktop that's ever been sold at Best Buy. Cause that would just be
an incorrect statement. What I will say is that first
impressions are really solid. I'm about this thing right now. As soon as I've tried to load up a game or do anything more demanding, probably not gonna be about this thing. I think it's more than
we can say for this guy. - [Ken] I think it's
99 cents too expensive. - [Austin] Oh my- will you
start playing with the tape? It's not a funny gag when you put it on and take it off like three times in one video. This video is sponsored
by the Roborock S7. This autonomous vacuum
is seriously impressive. Not only is S7 able to
precisely make a zoned multi-floor map of your
home using the LiDAR, but it can also work
on a multitude of soft and solid surfaces with
ultrasonic carpet recognition. And especially for the latter, the S7 also has built-in
Sonic-mopping tech, which is able to detect when
it's running on hard floors. It really is seamless. There's also an all-new rubber brush, which is even more durable. So the S7 run on what
schedule works best for you. Take advantage of restricted areas to set exactly where to clean. Use voice commands to control your robot and with the optional auto empty dock, your robot can empty its
dustbin for up to eight weeks without you having to lift a finger. It is so cool to watch
this guy ride around, clean up everything in sight, and then go to take a break
and empty his dustbin, charge and then get back to work. So if you're ready for an upgrade, definitely be sure to check out
the link in the description. And of course, huge thank you to Roborock for sponsoring this video. So one of the highlights,
the first time around when we tested the bigger brother or the older brother of
this HP was getting Crysis. The original version of
Crysis up and running. Now that experience was, shall
we say less than optimal. So let's see what happens when
we try to launch it on here. The thing is with this
chip, generally speaking, this is speck little bit
better than that original HP that we looked at. However, this was also using
the fairly lackluster Intel. I think it's like the HD 400 graphics. It's the lowest of the
low in Intel graphics. Oh, it's runs great on Core 2 Duo. So we're fine. Oh, scan hardware and detect
optimal system settings. Please do that. Mainstream spec. Mainstream is
one step up from the minimum. I mean, that's not, that's not nothing. Okay. 18, 17 frames per second, but this looks like
actual real game play. Ah- I think this counts. I mean, it's not super smooth. Here, change all settings to minimum. Yo! We got 30 FPS boys! Okay. This is definitely
better than the HP. The HP ran like absolute garbage town. Is it impressive that a $360 all-in-one in the year 2021 is capable
of playing such an old game. Like I, some, some part of
me thinks this is really cool because I remember this game being like the actual absolute shit but also... it was pretty old at this point. Why don't we try something slightly newer. By slightly newer, I mean, when did Valerian come out? 2020? 2018? - [Ken] Last year. - Valerian, a game from this decade. I say, this looks like
it's vaguely functioning. Excuse me? What? No. Oh God. All right. I'm gonna try to do this
a little bit more quickly. - [Ken] Okay. So. - I don't know what to blame here. It just randomly shuts off,
but like, is it crashing? Is it Valerian being weird? All right, let me... we're gonna restart it
once and give it a try. I feel that this should work though. I think it's gonna work well, but I feel like this should work. Graphics quality up, up, up, up, up. Connection error. Okay. I think realistically, I'm probably gonna need to
try to re-install Valerian to see what it's all about, but I have an idea. Now it's one thing for me to sit here and play with what I
think could potentially be one of the worst
new pieces you can buy. Certainly one of the cheapest new desktop all-in-ones that you can buy. But the real question is, what do people want me to
actually do with this thing? I know for me, I wanna try to play games
on it and see how it works. But something tells me that
what I do with a super cheap PC is slightly different
than what most people who actually buy something like
this are actually gonna do. What did I do to deserve this? I don't even know what video this is. It's like Linus reviewing leggings. Everyone is looking at me right now. Everyone's looking at me. - [Ken] Oh, wait till you
walk by the group of kids. Oh no, do I have to go that? Can we please turn this off? - [Ken] No. Go. (Ken laughs) - Hello! How's it going? Don't watch this channel,
it's a bad channel. I hate both of you. Both of you. All right guys, this is enough. I'm leaving now. Can I take off the shirt yet at least? - [Ken] No. - W-what sick pleasure
do you get out of this? Well, why is there an iPad here? - [Ken] So, I think that
this is a better value than that thing that
you have on your back. - Which iPad is this? - [Ken] It is the 7th gen base iPad. - Base iPad. So this was like $330 new. That was two years ago, three years ago. - [Ken] Now it is around $280 on eBay. - Yes. So about a hundred dollars less than this contraption. - [Ken] Yes, which- - [Austin] What are you trying to prove? - [Ken] Wait. Well, this
has Geekbench on it. Yeah. Oh- - Did you install Geekbench on my back? - [Ken] Yes. Yeah. Why not? - If we're being somewhat practical and not just haha Austin was
wearing a Linus Tech Tip shirt. The iPad actually is what I
would recommend for most people who are considering an
all-in-one like this, because the iPad, while it's portable is a
great device for the home. It has a lot of power and a lot of the stuff that you do on this like web browsing and Facebook and that kind of stuff is
done really better on an iPad. It's a much more sort
of comfy form factor. Is it plugged in because
the battery was dead? - [Ken] Yeah. - Great. This is such a scientific test. - [Ken] Here's the only thing about this. You can get a cheap stand and
use it like a computer anyway. - You can, you can. And the 8th gen or the 7th gen, I think specifically was the one that added the smart connector. We actually can have a keyboard, which makes an iPad a lot more useful. Wait, this isn't- this is an A9. This shows up as a dual core processor. Interesting. Okay. So our score is 764 on
single-core, 1381 for multi-core. Well, hang on. What's the score of my HP Qua? (Ken laughs) What is it? What is it? What is it? - [Ken] Single-core 484. Multi-core 854. - So even one core of this, which for some reason is showing
up as two, instead of four, one core of the iPad is
basically as powerful as this entire system behind me. Look, I know this sounds ridiculous and you might not take anything seriously from a guy who's wearing a computer on his backpack with the
Linus Tech Tip shirt on, but it is kind of jacked up that a brand new Windows
10 PC in the year 2021 can be as underpowered as this. It is vaguely usable,
but like if a old iPad, an old out of date, for some reason only
using half it's cores iPad is still that much more powerful. It should say something
about the fact that, I mean, if you really need Windows, they got you. Other than that, look, look how much it takes to
make this thing portable. Oh look it's portable. So if that's not sales pitch, I don't know what is. Another sales pitch I will
give you is to make sure to subscribe to the channel and
Ring Ding-A-Ling-A-Ling bell for more high quality... Sorry, for more content like this. Quality notwithstanding. - Why you have a computer on your back? - ...that's a long story and involves a lot of eighth graders.