- Thank you to SimpliSafe
for sponsoring this video. We know why you're here,
I know why I'm here. It is time for Wishtery Tech, the show where we buy the most
ridiculous things on Wish, and make fun of them, and then we wish we had our money back. - So what do we want today? Well, ooh, okay. Nintendo's Switch console, where basically, you just
put your dock, on top, but you can load up a ton
of Joycons, Joycon Grips, 29 bucks, sold. - "Be as lazy as you like." She looks terrified. Oh, look at this. $10 For a Computer/Phone/Headphone/Watch
Mystery Box. Why are we going through all the hassle of making original mystery tech content, when we can just buy
a mystery box on Wish? - It is $10 plus $6 shipping. Should we do this one or should we look for another mystery box? - [Man] Look for another one. - $100+, let's go boys. SuperLoot, Gaming Mystery Box. $249 of value, 15 fun items for 128 bucks. I mean, I feel like all of
these are going to be terrible, but, it means I can be lazy, and let, Wish do all of
my mystery box choosing. - Simulation Tyrannosaurus,
Dinosaur Model, Toy, Animal Plastic PVC Action
Figure Toy For Gift Boy Gift. - [Kenneth] Raptor has a friend? - He looks very small. - The Lenovo SP1S True
Wireless Earbuds for 15 bucks. These just look like Air Pods
with the Lenovo badge on it. All right. 15 bucks. Sure. - Hm. It's a scratch and
dent, white Lenovo Think Pad, X131 E. oh, runs Chromo OS. Oh, I see. Wow. For the, for the Lenovo, standard shipping, is $13.95, but I can get express shipping for $13.98. I'm going to spend the extra 3 cents to get express shipping. Oh, this one's, this one's just for me. - Oh. Oh. Oh Man. I don't like this. Laser massage and point type. What does this do? It's electronic acupuncture,
pen, massage, relief pain tool. All right, fine. I'll hurt myself for your pleasure. - I can buy a squishy, some squishy balls. It's, you know what these are? These are great, as stress relievers. As I look through all the garbage
that's shown up from Wish, and realize how much
money I've really wasted. - Okay. This is $197, brand new
sealed, X-Box series X. Let me just find, where
they're going to scam me here. It says brand new sealed, $197 plus $12 shipping.
Sold $200. Let's go. You don't get anywhere
in life, without taking a few risks, or making
some poor decisions, which is really what, is the actual thing happening right now. So, we have. - Our grand total, with our, very generous discount, is $670 and 27 cents. So if you'll excuse me, I'm going to now press the
order button and proceed to wait one to two months for my items to arrive and where I will be surely very satisfied with the items I purchased from Wish.com. (dramatic music) (box flopping on the counter) - Is that a box, of Wishtery Tech? Hope it's not fragile. I'll actually say, this Wishtery Tech came
in faster then usual. A lot of times, when we
order Wishtery Tech, We're waiting, a month,
two months, before anything even shows up. I feel like we actually got,
at least some of the stuff in, fairly quickly. Huh? - [Kenneth] I think some of
these products, are definitely, from the US. - Yeah. - [Kenneth] And, I think this
one's probably one of those. - Yes. Including my Lenovo
power adapter and Lenovo laptop. Wait, how old is this? Whew. That's what I call, gently used, like new. (laughing) - [Matt] This is supposed to be white. - Well it's, not, actually not white. - [Kenneth] Well thank god. Thank god I'm color blind. - Boy. (laughing) - Your that color blind,
you better get that checked. All right. (laughing) - How much, was this, Lenovo
Think Pad, scratch and dent special from Wish.com.? - [Kenneth] Too much. - [Matt] 90 bucks. - [Kenneth] Too much. - Let's see what's inside. Oh boy. That's dirty. That's dirty, but it's fine. I'm not sure in what
planet, this touch pad, which I can cover with two
fingers, is a good idea. But we do our little nipple,
so we can flick that, to our heart's content. Let's fire it up. Let's see what happens. Go ahead. No, no, we just, we just roll with that. We roll with that. We don't question it. There's like a lot of, human DNA on this keyboard. All right. It says no longer receive, the latest software updates, forever we are trapped on Chromo OS 69. - [Kenneth] Nice. - Here, this is what it looks like. - [Kenneth] Wow. That, that screen, actually looks worse in person. - I mean, this is not, terrible. I would almost say that this might be, roughly equivalent to, a
budget Chromebook of today. You actually get more ports. You get, I would say better build quality, a better keyboard. The nipple, take it or leave it. I personally am a nipple
guy, but you know, it's up to you, if you want
to go that wrought or not. My big concern is, even at $90, running on, not only
Chromo OS, but Chrome OS, which is three years out of
date and not getting any better. That would probably be
my big deal breaker. Because, I mean, look, Chrome OS is a secure operating system, but not when you're, years,
out of date with no hope of updates in the future. I think this might have to be a pass, but, I guess, besides the color, this is what we ordered on Wish. We can't say that we got false advertise. They didn't click bait
us, except it's not white. (dramatic music) - [Kenneth] What's this? - I don't know. You're
the one with the box. (box flopping onto the counter) - Oh yeah. I bought another laptop. (yelling in frustration) - It's another Chromebook. Aren't you excited Ken? - [Kenneth] No! - It's Wish Chromebook edition. So this, is a Samsung Chromebook,
which is massively thin. Anyway, thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe to the channel. Ring- a - ling that ding-a-ling bell, for notifications on all our
future garbage, unboxings. And, let's move on to
the next item, shall we? (dramatic music) (box flopping onto the counter) I mean, that actually
was fairly impressive. That it, pretty much did like
a full somersault in air. This, is, a box, of
wish-tirious technology. - Oh. A "Wishtery" box, mystery box. Wow. This is large. And, not particularly impressive. I'm gonna try not to look
inside the mystery box, so I can truly be surprised, with our, "Super Mario bros", cartridge canteen, an actual, wait, is this an actual licensed product? - [Kenneth] These are,
probably real things. - Just not good things. - [Kenneth] Yes. - Well let's, let's take
a look. Let's take a look. - [Kenneth] These are
novelty things, that, like, individually you could
probably get on Etsy, for like 10 bucks, but like... - I mean, look, it comes in the actual,
like legit looking sleeve. - [Kenneth] We're probably
gonna get some stupid like, Zelda chain or like a
Zelda T- Oh, of course. - A "Mega-Man"- - [Kenneth] Of course it would be, a "Mega-Man" helmet speaker. - It, look, okay, I expected, no no no, hold on. I expected actual garbage, these things or at least licensed. - [Kenneth] Gamers are too easily amused. - I mean, yeah, that's true. I'm gonna plug it into the Chromebook, and we're going to get some high quality, "Mega-Man" action. - "So I believe, a item, of
mysterious technology, is..." - I mean, it's not good, but it's actually not that bad. Yeah. Okay. It's pretty bad. All right. All right. All right. We have, "Fallout Nuka-Cola", thirst, zapper. As you can see, it's high quality. You can also set it up like
this and it's a "Nuka-Cola" plastic piece of crap. It doesn't do anything. - [Kenneth] Joy. - Next up, we got, "Overwatch" lidded jar. Actually this looks a little cooler. - [Kenneth] That one, that one I'll take. - I mean, this is very nice little- - [Kenneth] Wait, is that, is like. Oh, okay. So it's not plastic. Okay. - No, this is actual real, um glass or, - [Matt] Ceramic. - Ceramic, yes. That's
the word I'm looking for. - [Kenneth] How much more is in that box? - A lot more, so, settle in, kids. - [Kenneth] Oh, what socks do you have? - "Cuphead" socks. - [Kenneth] That is the best
game on this God(beep) list. - Oh. Nope, value just went up. There's two pairs. $20. $20 of value right here. - [Kenneth] Yo, we're going
to get that on "wikiFeet". Let's go. - Get that nice shot. - [Kenneth] Oh actually, they
actually don't look that bad. Wow. I actually kind of like those. - Shall we continue? Because there still is... - [Kenneth] Oh my god. - A fair bit of stuff in here. Including, a "Tracer" Pen. See, finally got you, your pen. - [Matt] Little belly button. - [Kenneth] Just for reference,
I guess Austin is an inny. - Look, we're all learning
things about each other today. (laughing) - Oh. Look, look more "Fallout". More "Fallout", "Fallout Shelter". - [Kenneth] Wait, that's... - But, it's not actually, real "Fallout". It's just, fall out, you know, as in, the thing that rains down. - [Kenneth] That, they, just
went on "Amazon" and got, a fall out shelter sign? - I think we're down, to the last item. All right. It's heavy. It's big. It's, an "Umbrella Corporation" tin. Which apparently, is
worth, 29.99US dollars. I, don't think that's true, but let's see. Let's see. Oh Lord. This is, that's sus, that's sus. - [Kenneth] Wow. - Do not ingest. So, make sure to keep T-
viruses away from your system. I will say that, I'm going
to just wear the socks and I don't care about any
of this other stuff, because it is generally garbage. (dramatic music) - Thank you to "SimpliSafe",
for sponsoring this video. - "SimpliSafe", is an easy to use, totally customizable
home security solution, that offers the most
up-to-date tech combined, with the reliable service
team that works with you. - "SimpliSafe", easily
enables you to customize the system, with all kinds
of sensors and cameras, to best fit for your space. And they ship it directly
to your doorstep. Including, their brand
new, outdoor camera. With a 140 degree field of view, 10 ADP resolution in eight times, zoom, you can spot things like, faces, license plates or ghost. I don't think that's, that's something that's
officially what you can look for. - There's also a built-in
spotlight with color night vision, to help you spot things
24/7 and with two-way audio, you can even speak to
or scare off someone, who comes in your property. I'm not doing the ghost joke again. Best of all. - It's easy to mount an
angle with its magnetic base. And, it can be placed anywhere,
since it runs on an easy to remove or chargeable battery. - Not only is it, dead simple,
to check in on your home, through the app, but in all serious, it is really simple to check
in on your home with their app, but behind the camera is
"SimpliSafe", always on 24/7 interactive monitoring, which will call the police
if it's alerted to anything, to keep you in your home secure. - Right now, you can take 20% off your
"SimpliSafe" security system and get a free month of service. If you sign up for their
interactive monitoring. If you're curious, just go over to
"SimpliSafe.com/austinevans,
to learn more. And of course, huge thank you, to "SimpliSafe",
for sponsoring this video. (dramatic music) (package sliding on counter) - Okay. This is not from Wish. This is an Amazon, package. - [Kenneth] Incorrect. - I mean, it's, it came
in this package, right. - [Kenneth] Yes, but this is from Wish. - Oh my, my balls. Ooh, Ken you wanna feel my balls? Come on over here. - [Kenneth] Noo. - [Matt] HR mediation. - Come on. Feel, feel my balls. - [Kenneth] Noo, I'm, I'm okay. - They're squishy. Look. Look, look. You wanna feel my balls,
watch, watch, watch. - [Kenneth] Oh, Oh, Ohhh, (squishing and squelching noises) - [Kenneth] Oh, that... (giggling) - You. who needs like
monsters sound effects, for like, when like, a zombie
eats you in a movie, whatever. It's just like- (popping sounds) - Ahh! No! It blew, it exploded! Oh God! It's all over me! It's all over me Ken! I have goo. I have goo on my arms. Ahhh! (dramatic music) (drumming on the counter) - I almost was smooth. I was almost smooth. I'll have you know. - Now that it has been
roughly another month later and we have more of our
"Wishtery Tech" items. Let's take a look. I feel like, it's been like, a month, since we started shooting, the first batch of items and
like, two months since we actually ordered everything. - [Matt] I went on a full
vacation, in the time, since we started. - I have had a full, grown, baby child, since, we've been waiting- - [Kenneth] Full grown? - The reveal, is oh, right. Robo - Raptor, 17.0, cause, past Austin definitely
thought this is a good idea. Robo - Raptor, medium
Raptor and little Raptor. We're just making ourselves a little a... Oh, actually that looks
pretty good. Right? - [Kenneth] You know what's
funny, is that people think, that, we probably have some
fascination about dinosaurs when we couldn't give
a f**k about dinosaurs. (laughing) - Ken Bolido, We don't give a f**k about dinosaurs. (dramatic music) (fumbling with a package) - Hello. Welcome. To Austin's, dude, perfect corner. So this, is the, multifunctional
game storage tower, for "Nintendo Switch". - [Kenneth] Oh my God. We need a "Switch". - Yeah, we need a "Switch". - Wait a minute, hold on,
hold on, hold on, hold on, - Hold on. Time out, time out, time out. Can we get a zoom in on this? (smacking the box) - We got some spicy, some
spicy, fine print, on here. "Nintendo" and "Switch" are
registered trademarks of, " Sony Nintendo of America". - [Kenneth] Okay. At the end of the day, in China, what is copyright? - For, demonstrating purposes. Observed the quality of this item. Really, listen to the
quality of this item. (item thunking on the counter) - Not, the highest quality,
plastic in the world. Bam. Look at that. - [Kenneth] This looks like something, that you would get from "five Below". - [Matt] This looks, like "five Below" is better than this. - Behold, the magic, of the Wish doc. Wow. Oh my God. It's crazy. Right? - Oh, you can put a "Switch" and games and controllers and Joy cons. In one unit. I want to move on. I don't
want to look at, this, anymore. (dramatic music) - What the f**k is this? (laughing) - [Kenneth] Wait, what? - There's not one,
decipherable thing on this. I mean, is this like speaker... but it, it looks like it says medium. I mean, it's like,
something's, shaking in there. - I'm a little afraid
to open this right now. - [Kenneth] I think you should... I actually, I actually
think you should be afraid. - [Matt] I don't know what you
have in your hand right now. - I'm just gonna crack it.
I'm just going to crack it. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to "Wishtery Tech", where I will be taking a look at... (dramatic sound effect) - Ohhh! No!!! (laughing) no, no, no, no, no, no. - " Nut, Nut, Nut, Nut." - No! No. No, no, no, no, no, no. No. (laughing) (dramatic music) - All right. Continuing on with this
very family-friendly episode of "Wishtery Tech", we have, "Lenovo LivePods". - Okay. So we have a long history, of purchasing, some sus headphones, on Wish. Fake "Air Pods", fake
"Beats", fake "Galaxy Beans". Now, Lenovo is a company
which makes a lot of things. I can believe that they make headphones. I've never, tried, Lenovo headphones, but I can tell you that, these look identical, at
least with the headphones, they look identical, to "Air Pods" pros. - Oh, okay. So you know what? This seems real. I look it up and immediately,
the "LivePods" LP ones, are available and they're,
on walmart.com for $24.99. So these do seem like a
legitimate, authentic product, or at least, they could be. - Okay. All right. So we've got, a USBC to USB cable, some extra ear tips. Very nice. And I've actually never seen this. The earbuds come, separate from the case. They actually come,
completely individually. Let me actually get them
in, the, charging case, drop them in and see how that is. I mean, the magnet's not,
super strong, but it's fine. I will say, they're really
similar to "Air Pods", but there are differences, right? So the cases are identical, except that it's got
this kind of like, flat, beveled finish on the side. Clearly Lenovo tried
to do the bare minimum to not get sued by Apple. - Whoa, what? What? - Okay. That is one of the strangest
sounds I've ever heard. So, there's real base there. It's obviously kind of scoopy, but the detail is, no better
than like, a tabletop speaker, like a couple feet away, like, it's very sort of muddy, but,
if you just want something, that's got a little bit of a kick, they're better, than
the price would suggest. Not by much, mind you, spend 50 bucks, you're gonna get a better pair of earbuds. - Wish you got me on this one, the "Lenovo LivePods" LP1S, certified, not garbage town. (dramatic music) - Hello and welcome. All right. Continuing on. (sword shing sound effect) - Oh, one moment please. (hard running sound) - [Kenneth] What the f***? Where, where'd he go? - [Kenneth] Yeah? - That's it. This is the whole item. - [Kenneth] Wait, that's, really? - That's the item. Yep. - [Matt] Just a headband. - Just a headband. - [Matt] 80 Cents, for $2 shipping. - How could you say no to that? - [Matt] Well, you didn't. (dramatic music) - Look at my ninja reflexes. Oh. No. I didn't... I didn't pick this item. Me? No. Of course not. The massaging pen. Why is this entire episode,
the definition of sus? It uses your hand as a ground
pole to complete the circuit. So you may sometimes feel
the voltage in your hand, you're holding it with. That's because there are
many acupoint in the hands. Simply change grip slightly or
grip the device with more of your hand surface to despite the effect. Boy, I love electrical devices, that uses your hand as the grounds. A little bit of contact
gel on my inside wrist. All right. I don't, like this. (beeping noises) - Ahhh! (laughing) - No. No. We're done, call it a day. Subscribe. Ringling the ding-a-ling bell. I'm not doing that anymore. Ah. - My, my Shinobi powers will, prevent... You don't know how to use it. (dramatic music) - Thanks, for the item. Is there nothing in this bag? - [Kenneth] No, there is. It's our "Xbox Series X". - [Matt] According to
Wish, it was delivered, but, it ain't in there. - This is unacceptable. - [Matt] Like, there's UPS
tracking and everything. - How do you even, get
a fake tracking number? No box showed up at all. - [Matt] Correct? - If you go on Wish, I'm sure
it shows it was delivered. So go, oh yeah. The package there. No problem. How much did we pay for that Series X? - [Matt] $192, and $12 shipping. - Wait. $192 dollars? - [Kenneth] Yeah. - Oh, I'm a f*** idiot. Why would I order that? Of course I wasn't gonna show up. - [Kenneth] Correct. - But nothing showed up? Like not even a fake X-Box? - [Matt] Correct. - They saw one sucker bought the Series X, as soon as they showed delivered,
they pulled the listing. I don't know, who to be more upset with. Wish, for allowing such, tomfoolery, to be done on the platform or myself, for, falling for it, again. One of these days, I'm not going to get scammed. One of these days, I'm gonna
find an amazing deal on Wish. But today is just, not bad day.