In today’s increasingly-connected world,
the creation, distribution, and consumption of information has become a major part of
our lives, and telecommunications infrastructure serves as the backbone of our information
society. From the telegraph and telephone wire to the
cable and fiber optic lines, we’re always working to find new ways to communicate over
long distances, but not every signal travels through a wire. Today we’re talking about wireless telecommunications. I’m Grady and this is What’s that Infrastructure,
where we divulge and discover the constructed world around us. You can’t talk about telecommunications
without mentioning radio. Jerry took lots of pictures of the infrastructure
in Ethiopia when he travelled there to adopt his son, including this cool photo of radio
transmitter towers and a wild mess of guy wires used to hold them all up. One of my long time fans, Luto, sent in these
photos of the remnants of radio transmitting antennas in Vienna. These transmitters were built by the U.S.
after World War 2 to strengthen their radio program in Austria known as red-white-red,
and you can still see the mast anchors if you visit the parks in Wilhelminenberg. Here’s another piece of history sent in
by Sidarth in Indiana. These are horn-reflector antennas used in
the AT&T long lines network. These microwave relays cut the costs of long-distance
communications dramatically compared wired systems and were used extensively starting
in the 50s. Even though many of the towers were built
to withstand a nuclear blast, fewer and fewer remain as our demand for higher capacity communications
infrastructure increases. Luckily, there is a ton of information online
dedicated to remembering the awesome feat of engineering that was the long lines microwave
radio network. Shravan sent in these photos of helical antennas
from the radio telescope on the small island nation of Mauritius. These antennas collect radio waves from astronomical
sources like planets, stars, and galaxies. Since these waves are fairly weak, radio telescopes
usually require very large antennas, and the one in Mauritius is no different. The main arm is over 2 kilometers long with
more than a thousand of these helical antennas. On the other end of the size spectrum, Ben
sent in this photo of a small microwave antenna on a traffic signal. These antennas carry line of sight communications
to other signals or to a centralized traffic management system These systems are a major
step up from simple timers, allowing traffic signals to respond to changing conditions
in real time. Jacob from Mississippi did an internship with
a telecommunications company and shared some great photos from his experience. Cellular networks are named as such because
each transceiver serves a certain area known as a cell. Nearly everyone uses a cell phone these days,
not only to make calls but also to browse the web. You may even be watching this very video on
your phone, and if you are, can I just say thank you for spending your hard earned megabytes
to support this channel. To manage the ever-increasing demand for wireless
data, telcom companies continue to expand their cellular infrastructure. It seems like just about anywhere you look,
cell phone antennas are popping up. Eric from Pennsylvania sent in this photo
of a small-cell antenna on top of a utility pole. And Dave from Maryland sent in a photo of
a similar, but much larger antenna on residential apartment building Finally, Daniel from Australia
sent in a photo of something that’s become very popular: an array of cellular network
antennas along the parapet of a commercial building. Richard’s family has operates a Wireless
Internet Service Provider or WISP in Oklahoma. WISPs allow coverage of rural areas where
wired connections wouldn’t be feasible by creating individual access points which can
serve many customers. In fact, infrastructure just like this is
helping to reduce the digital gap in developing countries by providing broader low-cost access
to the internet. Finally, following tradition, a photo that’s
got me stumped. This one comes from Guillaume in Quebec. It may just be an architectural feature, but
I have a suspicion these yellow things are serving a purpose. I’m just not sure what it is. If you know, put it in the comments down below. Thanks again to everyone who sent in photos. These emails are not slowing down. This has been a lot of fun so far, and I’ve
got a backlog of topics for future videos. If you have a picture you’d like to share,
send it in to Whats.That.Infrastructure@gmail.com. Make sure you mention that it’s okay for
me to use in a video, and include your mailing address. Because if I use your photo in a video, I’ll
send you a Practical Engineering sticker. Click that like button and subscribe to the
channel if you enjoyed the video. Thank you for watching, and let me know what
you think.