- This might be the
greatest-looking gaming monitor that money can buy. Recently at CES, I got
to take a look at this, the LG UltraGear 45GR95QE. So when LG kindly offered to
sponsor an entire gaming setup around this display, and
maybe more than just this one, I could not say, "No." Wait till, I need to open this. (knife pricks) (knife slices) To give you an idea of
the size of the monitor, this is the stand. This is bigger than most monitors already. - [Ken] It's like a Gundam. (Kinsey chuckles) - Where's Jud?
- Look at him. - [Austin] All right. All right, yeah.
- Oh, Jesus! Wow! - Oh, my goodness! Bro, look how thin that is. So let me set it down here. You might notice a little something. - [Ken] You could have picked
a better angle, okay, buddy? (Ken laughs) - [Matt] That was- (Ken continues laughing) - You know, you can walk around
with the camera anywhere. All right, so we do have
the external power brick, which I actually understand. I usually don't like it when
there's an external power brick for a display, but if you
come around to the back, there is not a lot of
extra space back here. Now, you do have a couple
of additional features. You have a couple of HDMIs, you have DisplayPort, optical audio. You also do have a DTS headphone jack, which is, oh, interesting. So it's actually mounted
right on the bottom. - Perfect.
- So it's easy for you to, yeah, it plugs directly. This, my friends, is
absolutely ridiculous. Look how bright that is. I'm gonna turn that brightness down. So that's a 100%. I'm gonna just turn it to like where I would like to use it. - [Ken] Yeah, the contrast
on this is so good. I just noticed you have
Windows 10 on this machine. (Austin laugh) (Ken laughs) - It's fine. I'm just running it on a laptop back here, just to make the display work. What you're getting here is, in my opinion, one of the
absolute best gaming monitors that you could possibly buy, but that's not enough. Oh, no. Because we have very
good friends over at LG,  and when I said, "Hey,
I'd love to do a video on your new UltraGear 45 monitor," they go, "Sure, let's do it," and then I'm like, "Why
not go a little extreme?" Matt, if you'd be so kind. They sent over, not one, not two, but three of the LG
UltraGear 45 displays. (bomb explodes) Who needs 4K? Who needs 8K? When we put three of these together, it is going to be over 10,000 pixels wide, and you put the curves of all these three, it's gonna be probably more than 180. So if you're sitting in the middle of it, you'll be entirely surrounded by monitor, unless you need pixels behind your head, but, well, we need two more of
these to make a full circle? No, we're not doing it, Matt. We're not doing it. We're not doing it. - I'll call them.
- No. No, no. - I'll call them right now. - Before we actually build this setup, and see if A, our computer can actually
push 10K of resolution, and B, if it actually is
remotely usable anywhere close to the 240 frames per second
that these monitors can handle. We actually need to figure out how we're going to mount them. (Matt groans) That one's heavy. - This one is a little heavier. - So this is meant much more so for like simulator rigs, but importantly, it is one of the only
actual monitor mounts that can handle, not only the weight of these monitors, which actually is really
not bad, but the width, because we're trying to put
three of these together, and if we do it right, they should all be pretty
much perfectly aligned. - [Ken] Yeah, hopefully
this setup's well-rounded. (upbeat music) - You know, we'll just have to circle back on that one later. - You guys are really ahead
of the curve on these puns. (upbeat music continues) - [Kinsey] I don't like this angle. (upbeat music continues) (Austin claps hands) - Life's Good.
- Synergy right there! (upbeat music continues) So, we're making progress. So we've got the mounts,
I would say 20% assembled. All the exciting stuff
is gonna be all the stuff on the floor here to
actually make it work. The only downside to
such an extreme curve is that I don't want to set it down, 'cuz I'm afraid,
(Austin chuckles) which means that everyone's
gonna have to get nice and close to help me screw in. (Austin laughs) I will say though, for
how big this monitor is, it is incredibly lightweight,
which is very helpful. The fact that you can actually easily
pick these things up is like, low key a big deal. - Yeah, you're not lined up at all. - Oh, I can't see anything! - I can't see anything! If you would just set this on the floor. - I'm not scratching the UltraGear 45! - [Ken] No, you're not gonna
scratch it on the floor. It's curved.
- Curved! If this scratches, I'll take it outta Kinsey's paycheck. - [Kinsey] No! (Austin laughs) - [Ken] Full send? - [Matt] See? There, done. (Austin groans) - Don't try this at home. You're not supposed to do this. No! Let's hurry up so we don't
have to look at this anymore. This is not good. - [Matt] Look how fast this is going. - [Austin] Yeah, I wanna
put the monitor back up. - [Matt] Yep. Yep. - So, the astute among you may notice some creative modifications
to our mounting mechanism, because we're gonna be
mounting this upside down. - Because of how big, not the monitor, but the brackets are, it was interfering with the way things, I'm gonna
let him struggle for a sec. - I can't see. You literally have to guide me. - [Kinsey] Like, the further
into the build he gets, the less Austin cares about holding the things, and I just hope that that's
not the same for children. (Ken wheezes) - I always carry him very, he can walk now. I don't carry him anymore.
- He carries him by the legs. (Kinsey chuckles) - [Ken] This used to be up here, and was blocking our DisplayPort, and we want to get the
most frame rate possible out of this monitor.
- Yeah. - [Ken] And it's one of the cool things of what LG has done is that the bezels are very clean. - Yeah.
- So there's no logo or anything to really suggest - Yeah.
- that it's upside down. - Yeah, if there was a logo,
we would not be doing this. - What I'm tweaking here
is the pitch and yaw. - [Ken] Ya! - Pitch and yahh!
- Yahh trick yahh, Soulja Boy. ♪ Yahh trick yahh, yah ♪ - Woo! Matt, look at that. That's literally touching. I thought this was gonna
take like hours to tweak. You've almost got
it like perfectly aligned. - I did math on this. Behold, my friends, we have built the most absolutely
outrageous-looking display setup we've ever had for a video. Let me hit you with some specs. This is 118 inches wide. You've got yourself a
ridiculous 10K resolution. I can literally barely touch both corners. And on top of that, when you sit in the
middle of these displays, it goes more than 180, aka, if I'm looking straight ahead, I cannot see the edges of the monitors. It's almost as if it's a VR headset, except made entirely out of
beautiful 240 hertz OLEDs. Thanks, LG! (bell dings) Now, as you might expect, a 10K display at 240 hertz requires some real GPU horsepower. Initially, we tried using
this with an RTX 4090. Now, before we get into
why it didn't work, let me just be very clear. What we are doing here is ridiculous. RI-DIC-U-LOUS. I mean, RI-DIC-U-LOUS. (upbeat music) Look it up. It's a word in the dictionary. Essentially, what happened
was with the RTX 4090, we could get two of the monitors to work, but the third monitor would
never work at the same time, until we turned off the
DisplayPort 1.4 DSC on the monitors, which did allow all three of them to actually function,
but only at a mere 144 hertz. Pfft! So then we turned to our
friends over at Team Red, and loaded up our PC
with a Radeon 7900 XTX. One of the main advantages of this card over the current NVIDIA 40 series cards is the actual bandwidth
of the displayouts. With this, we are able
to push 10K resolution at the full 240 hertz. Alright, so, first order of business, let's set this up as an Eyefinity display. So right now we've got ourselves
three 3440 x 1440p displays showing up here in Windows settings, but to do this properly, I'm gonna actually open
up the AMD settings. Are we good? Let me see. Here's the test. Yeah, yeah.
- Oh! - Everyone ready to see the
channel in full resolution? (upbeat music) (Austin laughs) - [Ken] Oh! (Ken chuckles) - Wow! That is ridiculous. So here's the thing, do I wanna find the pause button? It's over here. The pause button's here. If I wanna change the resolution,
I gotta come over here. (Ken chuckles) (keyboard taps) - I don't think it'll work, but I mean, we gotta try, right? (Ken gasps) - [Austin] Oh, good lord! (Ken laughs) - Oh, SeaWorld Kraken. Oh, I love Kraken! What a good coaster. Also, 4K is not enough for this, is it? - No, you would need 10K.
(Austin chuckles) You know you said it
was "high resolution"? When a 4K video doesn't even come close to having enough resolution
to actually look good. Let's try "Red Dead 2". Oookay! (Ken chuckles) - Woo!
- Wow! Also, it's crazy looking
at it from the side. So looking at it from the
side, it like stretches down to the main display where
it becomes much more normal. This is like ridiculously immersive. Like, I can just kind of forget that the two monitors are beside me. I don't need to move my
stick left and right. I can just move my head around
and see everything around me. Now, obviously, not all games
are going to support 30, wait, what is it, 63:9 aspect ratio? 63:9 aspect ratio. Now, one of the issues with gaming at 10K is the frame rate. Now, obviously, these monitors
are capable of 240 FPS, but even with a 7900 XTX,
the most powerful card we can get to actually properly
run all three displays, I'm running at about
100 FPS in "Red Dead", which to be fair, 100 FPS is still incredibly smooth. I'll try a racing game. I feel like a racing
game will actually be, like legitimately ridiculous. (car engine roars) Options. Video, 10K. Let's go, baby! Let's turn on FSR. When we're pushing this many pixels at this kind of frame rate, I
want all the help I can get. I'm gonna do an ACR Viper. - [Ken] Though it's funny, it kind of goes into the side a little bit. - Oh, you're actually right, yeah! It almost looks mildly broken, 'cuz, yeah, it goes a little bit off the screen. Oh!
- Ooh! (Ken chuckles) - Okay! Oh, my goodness. Look at this. - [Ken] Oh, this is wild. - I'm like, gonna get like dizzy. This is, wait, let's go inside. Yeah, there we go. There we go. Like, we're just gonna keep this set up in the office forever. Bro, look how fast this looks, and we're running at a smooth 140 frames
per second right now. In fact, I actually think
"Forza" might be limiting me, 'cause it's not going above 140, 145, 150. Look, obviously, looking at one of these displays looks
incredibly impressive, but three of them on one system? - [Ken] This looks insane, even from here. (Austin chuckles) It's like you're wearing
the biggest VR headset ever. - I'm not gonna be able to top this. This might be the most
insane gaming experience of my entire life. Come experience the 10K Ultra life.
- What? - Dude, that's so cool!
- Oh, my God! - Whoa!
(Austin laughs) - Yes! Yeah!
- There's low. (Matt laughs) - Overall!
- I landed it. - The thing about "Cyberpunk" is that obviously, one of the
allures of the game is the world that you're in, so I'm very curious to see the level of immersion we're going to get with this insane monitor setup in something like "Cyberpunk"
and it's ridiculous world. Oh!
(Ken chuckles) Whoa! Okay, well, looking up is a little trippy. Oh, my.
(Ken gasps) You weren't kidding about this being probably
the best gaming experience. - [Aron] Shoot that guy! Oo, oh!
- Wow! - [Matt] He had it coming then? - [Ken] That was a bad idea. - [Matt] I love that. - [Aron] Josh just blatantly
murdering civilians. Immediately goes into a
blood rage, yeah, wow. (Josh laughs) - If you're looking straight here, which is great, all right? You have a peripheral. If you're like driving, I'm
sure this would be great, but like I can't, (Austin chuckles) Wait. We gotta move the minimap! Honestly, I like this, except for I might get whiplash from like.
- Where's Keanu? - Wee! - Ah!
- Oh. Oh, Jesus! - Oh!
- Oh, my God! - [Matt] You're in a wire! (team laughs) - So massive props to Kinsey for doing almost all the leg work, and actually getting this thing set up. A big reason why this
setup is even possible is the 800R curve of the UltraGear 45. Most curve monitors on the
market are 1200R or 1000R, but the 800R is such a tight radius. It means that even with one of these
displays, it's immersive. You've got that 21:9 aspect ratio, and once you get in there, it's tight, it's cool, it's great, but three of them? Do you see what I'm seeing right now? (bright upbeat music) This is not a clickbait thumbnail! This is a real setup we've got right here, and you can check out the LG UltraGear 45 for yourself at the
link in the description. I'm just literally gonna
go play this all day. I'm not joking. We're gonna finish the video. We're gonna get a bunch of great footage, and then I'm gonna stay here. (bright upbeat music continues)