- We are back at it again. Today, we are going to
load a PS5 in an actual car on a real racetrack to
determine who's faster, the gamer, or the real driver. Although I'm the real gamer, so it should be pretty obvious, right? Now, we've gone through great pains to make this legitimately
as accurate as possible. So we are here at Willow Springs, specifically at the Horse Thief Mile, which is a track which has
been faithfully recreated inside of Gran Turismo 7. On top of that, we're going
to be using Ken's Supra. Again, something that he has heavily tuned to be exactly the way that
he's actually got his car here. While Ken has to worry about
actual real life crashing, I can just cut the corners. I can do whatever I want. I have the advantage. I'm gonna win. - See, you have the
advantage of a video game. I have production insurance. (tires screeching) - I regret ever telling him that we had to get
insurance to run the track. Thankfully, we have the
power of the Insta360 Link, the world's greatest webcam, to help guide our journey today. And of course, huge shout out to Insta360 for sponsoring this video. And as you can see, this
webcam has some serious chops. The main reason we chose
to use the Insta360 Link for this project is its flexibility. Not only is this an AI powered 4K webcam, and emphasis on the 4K there. Not only will it do 4K 30 fps, but importantly it's using a
very large half inch sensor. Not only do you have the AI tracking, which especially with that,
paired with the gesture control, means that this will be
able to easily track you as you walk around your office. But you could easily hook
this up to something like say a suction mount, which
is what we are using today. Or you could flip it over and use it for portrait live streaming. You've got phase detect auto
focus, you have HDR mode. And on top of that, there are
things like the overhead mode, which easily allows you to say, show what's off on your desk. Or you can turn it into whiteboard mode. So essentially, Ken, if you
wanna step back for one second. So essentially what it's doing right now is it's looking for
the four corner markers that actually come with the Insta360 Link. So Ken's gonna go off the track here. - Yeah, correct. - Definitely gonna go off here. - No. - And you're gonna hit, run
into the start finish line. - That's where our camera will be and I'll probably hit the camera. - Okay, cool. So, slow down on all of these. No, that's fine. - Yeah, yeah, we're fine. - Just be ready to jump out of the way. - [Ken] We have production
insurance, it's fine. - I don't think that... Okay, anyway, okay. So let's make sure this actually works, which is probably a good idea. - Mm hm, yeah. - You look quiet being in
the the passenger seat here. - Look, I've been in
the car with you before during track days and canyon drives. - So the main thing we're
doing right now is to make sure before we actually load the
Supra up and test everything, we just literally have
the link on a laptop, and we're gonna go around the track. And I'm gonna see how
well it actually tracks, and if we have a giant
disaster on our hands. So, you ready?
- Yeah, let's do it. - All right, we're gonna go for it. All right, we are about
to take off, my friends. - [Ken] Burn out, right? Yeah, buddy! All right. Oh, looks like it's holding up. Whoa, wait a minute. So I'm doing a little bit of
compensating with the laptop, so that doesn't go flying. But dude, this is crazy. It's still on me. Okay, look. I am absolutely holding onto the Insta360 'cause it's not gonna stay on
the laptop with all these G's. But, this is tracking me very well. - [Other Host] So basically,
once we actually have this on the actual mount, we'll
be in much better shape. - This is actually kinda nuts. This all looks very good. I'm also getting a little motion sick. I have to stare at myself
while looking at, oh my God. - We got a lot of stuff
to mount into the car. So while Ken is tearing
it up on the track, I'm going to be playing on
a little seven inch monitor. And I will say, this is
meant for camera gear, so it will do full 4K 60. So you'll see some beautiful high res imagery from Gran Turismo. But unfortunately for me,
this thing's got latency. A lot of it. I was doing a test yesterday, and oh boy, it's like a half second behind. So I'm just gonna say
that's my, I got a mulligan. Thankfully, the PS5 actually is kind of the simplest part of this. Velcro, here. - Yeah, yeah.
- It'll be fine. Look, as long as it works, we're fine. All right, please hold. I hear it. Oh, yo! It's pretty good, it's pretty good. - Why you doubt me? Why you doubt me? - Okay, fine, fine, fine. Of course, the most
important thing we have here is the Insta360 Link. Now this actually should
be relatively easy to mount because we do have a 1/4-20 on the bottom, and we have a little bit
of an adjustable stand. Plus, I'll be real, we don't
actually have to worry too much about the exact positioning,
'cause it's got a gimbal. It'll level itself out if
we're a little off center or anything like that. And, we don't have to worry
about the exact positioning 'cause it's gonna track us around, so we can kind of put
it vaguely in the area, and just let it do the work. - [Ken] Insta360 also hooked us up with a few of their X3
cameras to help us grab unique shots while
driving around the track. These things are awesome, because with a 360 degree field of view, you'll never miss a moment. Mount the X3 with a selfie stick, and it uses software witchcraft to blend it out of the scene, and give you the best possible
image stabilization around. Combined with the Insta360
app, you can reframe your shots in whatever aspect
ratio you're shooting in to show what's really important. - So we do actually kind of
need to hurry up a little bit. So we have the track
all day, which is good. But what we don't have is the sun for more than a few more hours,
because it gets dark fast. - Daylight savings time ruined our week. - Daylight savings time is
the bane of all existence. I've got battery on the laptop. I'm gonna hit record. Think we're actually ready to go. Are you ready?
- I'm ready. - All right. (tires screeching) (engine revving) Whoa, that's weird! Holy! Dude, it feels like I'm
actually in the game right now. Okay, wow, that's really hard. Oh my God, this is so hard. It feels like this is the
best motion sensor ever. - [Ken] (laughing) Let's
go, let's have some fun. - You're beating me by a lot right now. - [Ken] We got some drift action! Let's go! - This is so much harder than
I thought it was gonna be. Dude, I can't focus on the game. Not even close, not even close. That was good drift, man. I definitely, you just
sent me off into the dirt. (Ken laughing)
Oh God, dude. - So, how was it? - This is way harder than I
thought it was going to be. While Ken was taking turns,
my brain felt those turns, and I was trying to countersteer
and stuff in the game. But obviously I was nowhere near it. I was driving off the track in the game because I couldn't decouple myself. I didn't even finish the lap. My instinct is to drive in the game according to what I'm feeling.
- Right. - I didn't expect that at all. I thought I was gonna be
able to just ignore it. - 'Cause you're good with motion stuff. I know that you don't get motion sick and you're usually good
with orienting yourself. But, when you're playing a game, while feeling forces that you're
not supposed to be feeling while playing the game, understandable. That's so, uh, - I bet that gameplay looks hilarious. I bet that replay is absolutely awful. - Drunk driving 101. - Let's go again. I'm gonna get this right this time. All right, we are ready. Jared, count us down when you are ready. - [Jared] All right. Three, two, one, zero. - Oh, wait.
(laughs) - We're a go, a go, a go. Yes, yes, this is an opportunity, Ken. I'm going, I'm going. Ken, you better catch up. (laughing) This is my chance. Ken messed up, he was in park. Okay, so I'm already up the hill now. I'm up the hill, okay. I gotta make it all the way here. This is my opportunity. I can do this. I believe in myself. - Why did I false start? This is not fun. - [Other Host] Oh, I still
went off the track though. - I gotta catch up, I gotta catch up. - Oh, come on, go, go, go, go Go, go, go, turn, turn, turn, turn, turn. Yes. All right, going down the
hill, going down the hill. Going down the hill. The assists have made
a massive difference. Oh, I'm so far ahead of Ken right now. I'm so far ahead. I think I've got this. I think I've got this! - Woo.
- Ken, stop drifting. I'm trying to pay attention here. I just can't go stop. That's fine, go, go, go, go, go. Dude, I'm right in the front,
I'm right in front of you! I'm right in front of you. No! No, I'm about to scream. No, no! Get over the line. Get over the line. No! Oh my God, I went off the track right before the finish line.
(Ken laughing) - Let's go! - How did this happen? How did this happen? - Those drifts worked. Let me apologize right away to Jared for messing up that start. - [Jared] What was that? - I forgot that I wasn't in drive. - I cannot believe that I crashed right there, literally! - [Ken] Right there, you
can see it from here. - Oh, wait, right here. I crashed right here into this. Like I was that close. - This probably isn't the
most ideal way to race, but God, was it the most fun to do. - Of course, huge shout out to Insta360 for sponsoring the video. Not only were we using the Link, but we were also using the Insta 360 X3, which is hanging off the back of the car, to get those absolutely
sick third person views. Definitely be sure to go check
out both Insta360 cameras at the links in the description. And I'm gonna cry myself all the way home. Like, all the way home. Just, goodbye. - Wait, wait, wait. You forgot something. It's your L. - [Jared] Oh, got him. (Ken laughing) Jared's like, nah, I'm out.