- I spent over $3,000 on
the entire Xbox experience. All of the items I
purchased from today's video were purchased directly from, or at least advertised directly on xbox.com, right? So this is all of their very, very extensive list of accessories. And I'm gonna start out with something that's a little bit dumb, which is this. The Xbox rechargeable
battery and USB-C cable. Now you may look at this and say, "Hey Austin, it's 2024. My PS3 had a rechargeable
battery in 2006." And to that, I would say, "Yeah, it did, didn't it?" But instead, I had the
great, great happy fortune to spend 24.99 plus tax to get a rechargeable
battery for my controller. So to make this work, it is very simple. You take these ah,
disgusting, AA batteries. (tongue blargs) Gross, who wants to use those? Instead, I'm use my neat little Xbox battery thingy right here. And because this didn't come in the box, sorry,
(stuff crashing) I didn't mean to hit you
in the face with that, (staff laughing) since that didn't come in the box, I also have a handy 9-foot, count it, 9-foot USB-C cable. As you can see, I am roughly 1 1/2 of these cables tall. It's not enough to just
play your controller the way that Phil Spencer intended. There's a more budget-friendly way to get more out of your controller. These are performance thumb sticks to upgrade your precision,
aim, and movement. There you go, there's some bonus content for your weapon charm. Free for the first person who redeems it. So if you too would like to improve your thumb stick capabilities, well for the low, low price of $20, Captain Price will personally help you be better at Call of Duty. Can I direct your attention to a very concerning statistic? This copy of Forza Motorsport comes in at a hefty 150.6 gigabytes. Do you know what that is? It's a lot of (quack) space. This only has a mere one
terabyte of capacity. And so therefore, by installing Forza and, oh, I don't know, Modern Warfare 3, your SSD's almost full,
give or take a little bit, but it's not a lot of space, which is why the kind folks at Xbox have a wide accoutrement of different peripherals, accessories, and specifically storage
enhancement devices. That's what they call them. Don't look it up. Including this. (control crashes) The Xbox approved, designed for WD Black C50 expansion card. How much did I pay for this one terabyte? Because I know they've come down in price, but this was still
pretty expensive, right? - [Alex] Yeah, that one was $150. - I think it was 150 bucks on sale, whereas you could easily get a probably two terabyte SSD for the PS5 at that same kind of price. Ah, the good thing is this
is very simple to install. Boy, that was a really bad noise. All you do is just line it up with the expansion module and you press it in. And that should be literally be it. So you see here that I
had 800 gigs initially and then 600 gigs after Forza, but I have 920 gigabytes
specifically for this console. And it really is that simple. But I hear you asking "Two terabytes? (scoffs) What are we Amish?" So instead, let's expand
this a little bit farther. I know it's a joke. 'cause I don't think most Amish people care about two terabytes. I think that's probably fine, honestly, May I introduce the WD Black D10, a 12... Yep. Count 'em. Not one, not two, not three, not four, not five, not six, not seven, not eight, not nine, not 10, not 11,
but 12 terabyte hard drive. Wow.
(staff chuckles) Boy, that's... - [Alex] It's funny. It looks just like the small one. - Oh, I shouldn't have done that. Whatever. (staff laughing) Well, there are a lot of jokes that I can make at this point, and I would like to just let you know that I'm gonna be the adult in the room and I'm not gonna make any of the sus things that have come to mind as I look at these two. - [Alex] Wow. So size doesn't matter. - You know what? I'm glad
that I didn't have to say it. So it doesn't count. And technically this is 12 times bigger. - [Alex] Mm. - Now hold on a second. It's 10.9 terabytes. (playful music) The box said 12 and I got 10.9. Hmm, that's sus. Also, I have a code. Does anyone want a month
of Game Pass Ultimate? There you go. Now it's gone. With 14 terabytes of storage, our newly upgraded controller
and our invisible Xbox. The next step is to
work on our aural bliss, which is why we have purchased the official Xbox Wireless headset. Now this is actually all joking aside, a very solid headset. This thing only costs you a 100 bucks. Sometimes it's on sale. I briefly used this in the past, and you're getting a
very solid experience. So of course it is wireless. You can also use it via Bluetooth. So you could pair it with your phone or whatever the case is. It has a decent mic. Look, honestly, there's a lot going for this thing for $100. That's the first time I've seen that. It's... (crystal crashing) So we've got ourselves,
the headset itself, which comes with its
little bendy boom mic. These things are relatively comfortable. And they also have the,
like, rotating cups too. If I remember right, one side controls the volume of the game and the other controls your actual, like, party chat volume. So I have actually a decent
number of options here. So I can change my EQ, auto mute, I can change the actual mic light itself. So when it comes to the headset, I actually think this is
really solid for $100. You can certainly spend
more money than this and get stuff that has
like a few more features or certainly has like
higher fidelity audio. But, like, I would argue
that this is totally fine for the vast majority of people. Now, what does make a difference is the actual controller. Now, I will say that I've
always been a big fan of the Xbox One controller
and the Series X as well. Like, these are solid, good controllers. They're not as good as the
DualDense, in my opinion. The level of like feedback that you get from a DualDense is next level. But when it comes to a racing game, this is perfectly serviceable. And having the additional height on the stick gives me a
little bit more feedback. But as we recently learned, I am much faster not on a controller. Oh no, I'm faster with a wheel and I'm way slower on
a car, unfortunately. (car engines roaring) That was good. That was good. I like that. I like that. The tail does not want to stay tight. That's fine. Hard brake. Down shift to four. But, while sadly, Microsoft don't sell a multiple thousand dollar
racing simulator setup from Micro Center, what they do sell is... It's over here. One minute, I gotta... No, no, don't show it. No, don't show it. I'm gonna... Just stay over there for a second and pretend that I'm
doing a really cool gag. Okay, ready? All right. We're gonna just... You can cut all that stuff out, okay. So, all right. Okay. Yeah. All right. Which is why we have this! The Thrustmaster T248. Now this is a, I would say
mid-range wheel and pedal set. So why don't we try to hook
it up on the desk here, and I'll try Forza the way
it was meant to be driven? With a wheel and some
more updates hopefully. So with our Thrustmaster T248 connected, I've got my force feedback wheel, my pedals down here. Let's give this a try. So for context, this costs $400. Now that is in the, I would say mid range of sort of racing wheels. You can certainly get cheaper stuff, but we've got force feedback. We have, I would say a pretty
nice selection of pedals. And wow, that's a lot of
feedback in this wheel. It just sort of vibrates in my hand. Also, in case it looks weird, I've got a second monitor
over here I'm playing on. This is for you. So one of the nice things about this wheel is that I actually do
have a full little screen that gives me some information. Now, it's not massively useful because I'm gonna wanna actually, like, take my eyes off the road, but I can see my revs and I can also see which gear I'm in. So as I shift, I can see that live. So especially if you're not
used to driving on a wheel, you do need to get a little bit used to it because it's almost like sort of artificially over boosted compared to what you're probably
used to on a controller. With this, like, if I get
too quick on the throttle, the wheel's gonna try to
fight its way outta my hand, which is nice because that's
the way a real car functions. But you have to be a little bit careful. Why are they passing me? Wait, what's going on!? Why's everyone passing me!? Hey, I think we've got all we need to see from our racing setup. Let's take a closer look
at some of the wider world of Xbox accessories that exist out there. 'Cause believe me when I say some of the other stuff
gets a little bit wacky, anyone want toast? - [Alex] What? - Now we have this little
series on the channel called Mystery Tech, where I
took a look recently at this, the Xbox Series S toaster now for what, 40 bucks or whatever? If you actually could find
one, surprise, surprise, they sold out very quickly. This thing is actually really neat. Do anyone like some toast? Because I can do two pieces at once with this bad boy, but you've never seen
that before on a toaster. So the nice thing about this toaster, if I could be a Toast
Review channel for a second, is that not only does it
look incredibly stylish, just like a real Xbox Series S, but on top of that, it has a
little digital screen on it. It says, I have 146 seconds to wait. So the next time you don't wanna get jump scared by your toaster, it'll tell you exactly how many seconds before it is the big pow. While we wait for our toast, let me tell you a little
bit about the Xbox Series S. If you're not familiar, the Xbox lineup was immediately split in two
when this generation began. On the high end, there's
the $500 Xbox Series X very competent console
goes directly head to head with the PlayStation 5. But for the all digital cheaper model, we've got the Series S, which retails for $300, routinely goes
on sale for below that. And in my opinion, is a terrific console for more casual gamers. And I don't say that with shade. Like, lots of us would
appreciate a cheaper console that could still play all the same games. I mean, admittedly,
there's no disc drive, so you will need to rely on downloading stuff usually through Game Pass, but you get a small cheap console, which just simply doesn't exist anymore. Now I will say that there
is one additional version of the Xbox Series S to consider, which is the one terabyte. Now, this one is a little
bit of a harder sell because this is instead of being 300 bucks or like 250 on sale, this
is a full $350 console. Now it does come in Robot Black, which I think is a very nice colorway, and it does have significantly
more base storage. So we're talking a one
terabyte SSD on this compared to five 12 on
the original Series S. It is very small. (toast bops) Oh. I had a timer and I still got scared! I peed a little bit. Anyone want some toast? - [Alex] Whoa, that looks cool. - It's pretty cool, right? Again, I already did this
bit for Mystery Tech. If you're a longtime
subscriber to the channel, thank you very much. And if you're not, what are you doing? You are missing out on Toast Review. Little dry, probably could have
done a four instead of five. One of my favorite Series S
accessories is the xScreen. So we took a look at this back when it was still during crowdfunding. It's actually now been a
fully licensed Xbox accessory. And the way this works is it attaches to the back of the Series S, so you have still the pass through for your SSD as well as
your power, but that's it. You don't have to plug in HDMI, you don't have to plug in an additional bit of power or whatever. And the cool thing about
this is that not only is that a nice 1080p display, but when you close it, it actually puts the Xbox to sleep. Now it's not a battery powered unit, so you still need to actually have this to plug into power, but it's actually a really nice way to play the Series S on the go if you don't want a gaming laptop. So while I wait for a
beautiful Fortnite download, let me show you some more, accoutrement, some
additional accessories, some beautiful, wonderful add-ons to make your Series S cost a
whole lot of (quack) money. So starting out with, we have
the Xbox Elite Series 2. So this, I'm gonna let
you in a little secret. This is my wife's controller, I stole it for the video. So (shushing). So this, my friends, is
one of the Series 2 Design Lab controllers. Now there is a huge amount of customization that you can do here. So this is a little bit
of a simpler colorway. So it is essentially just blue and black, but you can customize, I mean, you can go through the
little design thing. There's like pages and
pages and pages of options. And what I like about it is it's actually not that expensive. I mean, yes, the Elite Series 2, they started like 120,
130 bucks for the Core, and you can add on all the bits and bobs. But to actually do the
full custom colorway, it's only like an extra like 10 to 20 bucks based on which Xbox controller we wanna do it on. Another option for your
controlling capabilities is the Xbox Adaptive controller. Now this is a controller that's been out for a little while now. I believe it retails for about $100. And the idea here is that it is a immensely customizable experience. So it looks like a DJ pad or something. But you have an absolutely huge variety of different ways that you can map this. Do we not have the accessories so you can plug them in to the adaptive controller? Do we have our adaptive controller without the thing that makes it work? Ha! I would love to show
this, but I'm an idiot and I forgot that it didn't come with any of them at all. There is one additional way to control your Xbox, not with a regular controller or a pro controller or a wheel or a flight stick or a series
of adaptive controllers that you forgot to get the rest of. Oh no, there is a dedicated
Razer keyboard and mouse specifically designed for Xbox. This is the Razer turret. How much did I pay for the Razer Turret? - [Alex] $250. - [Ken] What!? - [Austin] So if you wanna double the price of your Xbox Series S,
the Razer Turret look, okay, it's expensive and it's old. - [Ken] It's the same price as the Series S on a good day. - I... - [Alex] Look, it's a small
price to pwn the noobs. - The noobs need to be pwned. If they don't get pwned, they'll
never learn their lesson. So inside the box, we've got ourselves a keyboard and a mouse
and a dongle, importantly. So it does use 2.4, which means that we're gonna have to
use the only unused port on our Series S because we're
using the ones in the back. So we're just gonna plug
this in real quick here. So the way this works
is you have the actual, yeah, I remember that. It is clicky as hell, which is fine, but it's, it doesn't
feel like a $250 keyboard. I'll say that this felt
decent when it first came out. But to take off this huge plastic thing you can pull out... Wow, wow. Whoa, holy! (sniffing) I might have a Prop 65
warning on my face now! (staff laughing) Oh, Jesus. So what you do is when you're ready, you deploy and then you take your mouse and you go. (mouse crashes)
(Ken laughing) Sorry, you take your mouse, and... (mouse crashes) - [Ken] I don't think it works the way you think it does. - One moment, please. You just... It's lightly magnetized. See, look, it's lightly magnetized. - [Ken] Yeah. - See? I was going to show you what this beautiful setup looks like, but I now have 15 more gigabytes left on my Fortnite download
that I've been waiting on for quite a while. So I'll see you tomorrow to
give you the beautiful demo of this setup in all of its glory. And I'm gonna hope that
they don't turn off my aim assist 'cause I need
all the help I can get. And so with many, many gigabytes of Fortnite downloads complete, let us try first of all
with our mouse and keyboard. So just as a heads up, the screen looks like
it flickers on camera. It actually looks totally
fine to your eyes. It's just the way that the
camera's picking it up. So I would say most Xbox
games do not support this, but Fortnite is one of the games that does support, not only
my mouse but my keyboard. And I also have still like my
Xbox button and everything. So we are now in Fortnite
with mouse and keyboard and boy, oh boy, this feels like a PC. And to be clear, you can
use this mouse and keyboard with any Xbox and you
can also use it with PC. It works on Xbox One,
Series X, the whole thing. Now, the only downsides I
can really say with this is that the keyboard
feels a little cheapy, especially considering that you can get much better keyboards
for like half the price these days, and also the
mouse, while it is good, and it's certainly much
better in my opinion, for actually controlling a
game than the controller, it's more precise because it is magnetized to this platform here,
it's a little sticky, like, it doesn't fly. It doesn't glide super smoothly. It's probably not a coincidence that Razer made one version of this for the Xbox One, several years ago, and I've never really updated since. Oh, wait, I actually didn't realize
Fortnite does this. So look, I'm moving around
with my mouse, okay? then I switch over to controller. Oh! So you can seamlessly
move between the two. Well, what a great segue for me to use the Elite Series 2 controller. Wow, that is so much slower
than using the mouse. It's almost like the
keyboard's better or something. I have to inform you that there was one additional piece
of hardware on xbox.com that I saw, and I could not say no to. The Razer Edge. This is a bizarre little handheld console. It is really, really weird. Let me walk you through it. So bottom line, it runs Android, but the thing is, it's
not just a gaming device because you can actually take it off. You got the tablet and it comes with the Razer Kishi V2 Pro controller. Now, the thing that's
sort of unusual about this is that you can just take this and attach this to your smartphone. And I would kind of argue
that for a lot of people, this is almost more useful
than the actual tablet itself. But lemme put them together and show you because it's neat, it's not for everyone as most things in this video are. But it is actually a
really neat little setup. So the actual tablet itself
is 144 hertz display. It's running a Snapdragon
G3X Gen 1, as well as eight gigabytes of ram, which you can think of as like
an upper mid-range chipset. But importantly because
it's designed for gaming, it has a fairly decent cooling solution. Let's start by jumping
into Xbox Cloud gaming. I would just tell you right now, there's significant latency here. I know that a little bit
of latency is not terrible for a lot of people. And like I'm not sitting here saying like, "This is impossible to play" But it's a bad enough experience that I wouldn't want to play. So here, I'm gonna hit the brake button. Watch me, watch me hit the button. Ready, set. How long was that? That was like a half a second of latency, like it is bordering on unplayable. So this setup, which is the Razer Edge, the tablet, the whole Android dude as well as the controller will run
you $400 for the Wifi model. Now, that's a lot of money, and if you want 5G, it goes up to $600. Although here in the US, if you get through Verizon, they do have some incentives. But even just taking this a 400 console, I like the fact that it's so small, but the problem is that
that's the same price as a damn Steam Deck. And while the Steam Deck is way bigger, it is massively more powerful and it has a lot more flexibility in what you can do with it. A lot of my complaints with this are the same as Xbox Cloud gaming. It's not for me, it's decent. But when I look at what Nvidia have been able to do with GeForce Now, that is actually an
acceptable experience for me. Xbox Cloud gaming in all, but the absolute best case
scenarios is just not there. Even when it's streaming video perfectly, it still has enough latency
that drives me crazy. It's a tough sell because you got a phone that's probably the exact same thing. So when you look at this entire setup, what you'll see is that it is an eclectic mix of hardware and I think it does a good job of showing the difference
between the PlayStation and the Xbox sides of the fence. PlayStation is a little bit
more of a walled garden. There's certainly some third party stuff, but they try to sell you as much first party stuff as possible. Microsoft, I think will put pretty much anything that is vaguely green on xbox.com as I have learned today. But thank you very much
for watching this video. Subscribe to the channel and
ringling the dingling button. And stay tuned. I'm about to build my
ultimate Nintendo setup, which is going to be a Switch OLED and my hopes and dreams.