Today we're going to look at Egyptian fractions 
and by that I do mean the ancient Egyptians. They   worked base 10, like we do. So they had symbols; 
and I'm going to attempt to draw some hieroglyphs.   So their symbol for the number 1 is this 
- groundbreaking - it's called a single stroke.   So if they wanted to say 2, they combine two of 
these. Um for 10 in hieroglyphs they have this   which I believe is called a cattle hobble, which I 
think was used- you maybe put it around cattle legs   to slow them down. I looked into it, don't really 
know what that does, but this is a 10 which is   a far more interesting use of it. For 100 - and now 
I'm almost definitely going to get this the wrong   way around - but I think it's this way and it's a 
coil of rope. I'm pretty sure it's that way round,   someone will correct me if it's not. For 1,000 this 
is when it gets slightly more complicated, and I've   got to use my art GCSE; it is the water lily. For 
10,000, a bent finger, that looks vaguely like this,  and that's a bent finger. Okay, bent finger. 100,000? 
Obviously whenever I think of 100,000 what I think   of is tadpoles; so this is a tadpole. And now 
finally a million, and this really is going to be   putting my art skills to use. A million is Heh. Now Heh 
is the personification of eternity or infinity. So   a million also kind of just means an eternal or 
infinite amount, which isn't actually unheard of   in cultures that we have things like this. Umm 
some people believe that 1,001 Arabian nights   actually is meant to mean infinity and a bit more. 
So the idea of there being a very large number,  meaning that number or infinity, is actually not 
an uncommon idea at all. So these are the Egyptian   hieroglyphs for powers of 10; and if you wanted to, 
maybe say you wanted to write I don't know 23, what   you would do is you would write two 10s and a 3.
And you just combine them like that. So now on   to fractions; um I'm going to be talking about - I'm 
getting technical here - earlier Egyptian fractions. So there is actually evidence that fractions were 
done slightly different later on, there's a famous   Papyrus called the Rhind Mathemathical Papyrus.
What we're going to be talking about is earlier   um when fractions were all done by having a mouth 
symbol like this and then a number underneath. So   you might say this, and what this would be is  
a tenth, because it's the mouth symbol over 10. Now   with this we can only get numbers- fractions with 
1 in the numerator. In fact there are only two   exceptions um to this; so we can have 2/3, which 
is like this, and then there is also 3/4 and a   half for some reason is different. But aside from 
that, all others are of the form 1 / n. So it begs   a question, how is this useful? What happens if we 
have another another fraction? What happens if we   have say 5/6? Well 5/6 is going to be just a 
1/2 plus a 1/3, so actually we can still do   this. Now with Egyptian fractions, which is what 
these are called, all the denominators have to be   different. Should we try another one? 15/36 is going 
to be a 1/3 is 12/36, and that leaves 3/36 which is   equal to a 1/12. So so far looks like we can do it.
The question is, can we always do it? So for this   I want to introduce you to the greedy algorithm. 
We've got our fraction p over q, and we're going   to say p is not 1 - because we know if p is 1
we can do it, we'll just write it as is. And the   greedy algorithm looks at the largest 1/n such 
that 1/n is less than p/q. And we start by just   taking away this 1/n. What do we know about this?
This is going to be positive, because we know this   is less than this. So we'll end up with pn - q 
over qn which is positive, okay? We can actually   write an expression for n as well, we could write 
n is the ceiling function of q over p, so it means   it's the smallest integer above this fraction. Ah! 
We haven't actually used the fact that 1/n is   the greatest for which this is true. Cos what this 
means is that p/q is also going to be less than   1/(n-1). So we've said that this is going to be 
the smallest such n or the largest such 1/n,   they're the same thing, that's less than this, hence 
we have this inequality too. Now from this we can   multiply this out and then we get that for example 
p times (n-1) is less than q. And if we substitute this   in we get that pn - q is strictly less than 
p - and we already know it's positive remember. So   we've started with p/q, we've taken away 1/n,
 and now we've ended up with a new fraction,   we'll call it p1/q1 such that p1 is less 
than p. Now if p1 is 1 we're done, because then   we could just say that p/q is 1/n plus p1/q1.
 And if p1 is 1 we're done. If not, we just   repeat this process. So we can then say that, okay 
let's find the largest such 1/n, the smallest   n, that we get p1/q1 it's greater than 1
over let's call it n1 and less than this - and we   just repeat. And then we'll end up with p1/q1 
take 1/ n1 = p2/q2. And again we'll have, okay,   that 0 is less than p2 is less than p1. We can 
substitute back in, get p over q is 1/n + 1/n1.    Plus then this will be p2/q2. And again if 
p2 is 1 we're done - if not we repeat it again.    So this is why it's called an algorithm, it's 
a series of steps. And what we're going to end   up having is 0 is less than pr for some r is 
less than - and it just keeps going - less than p. But   these are all integers, these are all positive 
numbers. We can't have it going down infinitely,   one of these is eventually- we're going to have to 
hit 1. And the way we've constructed these qs   they're all going to be different as well. Hence 
this process is eventually going to terminate.  But yeah eventually we're going to get a pr that 
equals 1, so we're going to have p/q is 1/n + 1/n1 plus plus 1 over...then qr. And we're going 
to be done. So eventually this process does stop, so this greedy algorithm means that there is 
always an Egyptian fraction. Okay, there's one final   cool thing that I want to share with you. Because 
here you remember we we used a greedy algorithm   where we took the biggest 1/n so n was n was 
this value. Now if we slightly change this, if we   slightly cheat, and instead use the n is q/p 
+ 1 - and I'm going to show you this for 1. So 1   equals- well here q/p, it's 1 over 1. So  
q/p is going to be 1 + 1 is 2, so that's a   half. And then what we're going to do with our half, 
this is our new p/q. So q/p, 2 over 1 is   2, 2 over 1 + 1 is 3. So it's a 1/2 plus a 1/3.
What remains is 1/6. And we can keep following   this algorithm we get a 1/2 plus 1/3 plus- it'd be a 
1/7 + 1/43 + .... and so on. This is the cool thing   as well, because here if at any point we truncate
it it gives the Egyptian fraction closest to   1 for that many that many terms. So 1/2  is 
the Egyptian fraction with one term closest to   1. 1/2 plus 1/3 is the Egyptian fraction 
with two terms closest to 1. 1/2 plus 1/3 plus 1/7 is the Egyptian fraction with three 
terms closest to 1 - and I just think it's really cool.  I love that there are so many courses 
on Brilliant and always new ones being added.   Look here, I've spotted this recent edition on 
vectors; so, well, I thought I'd check it out. In   typical fashion it's quirky, well designed, 
and super interactive. I'm not just watching,   I'm doing. All the courses, the quizzes, the content 
on Brilliant is just like this - it's a great place   to learn. It doesn't feel like education it just- 
it feels like fun, but I'm learning at the same   time. If you haven't already, you might want to 
consider signing up and getting into all this   good stuff. Or perhaps give the gift of Brilliant 
by signing up family and friends for the premium   subscription. What a great and unexpected 
present. Wherever they are on their learning   journey, Brilliant has something for everyone - math, 
science, computers; it's all covered. Now Brilliant   has a free 30-day trial so you can go and give 
it a good go, and Numberphile viewers can get   a 20% discount on their subscription by going 
to brilliant.org/Numberphile. That URL is there   on the screen and I'll also put a link in the 
video description. Our thanks to Brilliant for   supporting Numberphile.
 - So my favorite number changes a lot but for now it is 288. You might be looking at that and thinking 
'what's special about 288?' Don't worry, we'll   get there, but first we need to rewind a bit 
and talk a bit about factorials. Specifically   super factorials. Now I know regular Numberphile 
viewers will have seen factorials before...