(joyous music) - God (bleep), stop
making me look ridiculous! I do a good enough job
with that by myself. - [Ken] But people like the costumes. - Do they though, does anyone like this? Do you like watching me dressed
up like a ridiculous Elmo? Let me know in the comments below right after you subscribe to the channel. See what I did there. I made people think I was
gonna ask them a question and I really just begged
them to subscribe like usual. - [Ken] Cool. - Is this what girls feel like when they're trying to put
on like a really tight dress and they can't reach behind them. - [Ken] Yes. That's very unsettling. - Hiya, kids, I'm Elmo! Oh boy! - [Matt] I don't like
that it's looking at me. - So you know that whole thing about, please subscribe to the channel? You can unsubscribe
now, I think it's time. I can't see anything. What is that? - [Matt] Elmo wants some mystery tech! Ken you, you got a review
unit from Samsung, right? This is a review unit of the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold2 5G, right? - [Ken] Uh, yeah, a review unit, yeah. - If I check the Amex, am I gonna see a $2,000 charge on samsung.com? - [Ken] I'm not gonna say no. - [Matt] But I will. So if you've listened to my fine podcast, the Test Drivers available
at relay.fm/testdrivers, then you will know all about my obsession with all things, folding,
flipping, and rotating. That sounds weird but, I guess I'll have to talk
about the Z Fold now. That was very nice. Very nice. Here comes the real test. Okay, all right. So just like with the Galaxy Z Flip, you can definitely see
there is a crease, right? And look, I find it to be okay. It's not so bad on the Z Flip even though it's right in the middle, but this, I think it's a
little bit more noticeable because it definitely
picks up the reflection. Something else I've really noticed here is just how smooth this thing is. 120 FPS does feel significantly better than something like the Z Flip. My head keeps falling but I'm
not gonna let that stop me. So the other thing that I think is really interesting about
this is the actual hardware because it is thick
and it is fairly heavy. But you're actually getting something for all that thickness, right? So you actually get a fairly decent array of cameras on the back, unlike the Z Flip which is a little bit more
of an old school design. So you had two cameras,
this actually has three and one of them is the larger
sensor camera from the S20. It's hard to get your head around these without spending time with them. Because personally, I found
myself really liking the Z Flip. I liked the small form
factor, I like the idea that it doesn't take up a
ton of space in my pocket. And when I need more space,
boom, it's right here. But on the flip side, the Fold is something entirely different. The Fold is a device which
is really meant to give you that more tablet experience. And yeah, sure, that could be useful for something like watching video. but also it can be useful
for running a couple of apps, similar to what you do on the Surface Duo, and you'd have that
running at a full 120 FPS And unlike something like the Surface Duo, you don't have those same compromises of bad cameras and not enough
performance and whatnot. I mean, this really is kind of the, the ultimate in high end
flagship at the moment. I would really say, I mean, it is certainly not for everyone, but there is a lot going for the Z Fold you just simply cannot get
on any other phone right now. - [Ken] I would hope so for $2000. - I would hope so. I also hope you can take a
guy in an Elmo seriously. - You don't.
- Sure can't! - Ooh, is that a new item? Oh boy! Oh, what's this, Ducky Pocket. What's a Ducky Pocket? Is this like a keyboard thing? Is this a calculator, wait, what? Oh, wait, no it is a calculator! - [Ken] Did you break it? - Yo, this is a good idea. This is a very good idea, okay, so it shows up in the keyboard. Oh dude, it's got RGB. It's got RGB, my calculator has RGB, okay. I'm in calculated mode
now, so 69 plus 69 equals, where's, wait, what? - [Ken] That screen is
actually pretty bright for a calculator. - [Matt] Make it say boobs. That says... What? Sob? Like what I do every night before bed? - [Ken] Five, three, one,
eight, zero, eight, there we go. - Oh, look at that. Ken Bollito with the
glorious, glorious math. Um, can I add 69 to this? - [Matt] No. - Look, if you want a really
nice calculator, I get it. As far as a little number
pad, I mean it works. I mean, I guess if you're
like off connected to a laptop and you want to have like easy access to
your keys, that's cool. The fact that it has RGB
seems a touch excessive, but you know what, if you're
an accountant who's also cool, this is your item right here. And if you're a YouTuber who's also cool, then this is your item. - [Ken] I think he
really likes this thing. - [Matt] As much as he complains about it. - Hey, wait, that's my item. Wait, this is my item. You're taking it for Mystery Tech? Typical. In non Mystery Tech fashion, I know exactly what is inside this box because Gigabyte recently
emailed me and like, hey, we got this new monitor
we want you to check out. So I'm like, you know what? Why, yes, I would like to check it out. (Austin groans) - [Matt] I feel like I should help you 'cause you're gonna drop that. - [Austin] Thanks, Matt! - And he still dropped it. - You know, when Gigabyte said, hey, we'll send you our
super cool new monitor I don't think this is
what they had in mind. - [Matt] You literally dropped it! - So as I unboxed this fine product that I have certainly
not dropped on the floor, what makes this special is
on top of it being a KVM, which is nice to have that
integrated into the monitor, It's also a proper gaming monitor. 27 inches, 1440p IPS, one
millisecond response time and it runs at 170 Hertz. So let me attempt to show you how this monitor is intended to be used. So I will turn it on and theoretically, I will be able to switch
not only my inputs between something like an iPad and something like a windows laptop, but I will also be able to move my mouse and keyboard along with it. So if you have multiple
devices plugged into the setup, everything will be able to be used without having to plug and unplug things. Oh my God! - [Ken] You did not. - I told you, you dropped it.
- You did not, oh, you... - I would like to formally
apologize to Gigabyte. - [Ken] Oh no. - I didn't think I dropped it that hard. I thought it was fine. - [Matt] You dropped it from two feet. - [Ken] You did drop it pretty hard. - [Austin] I couldn't see, I was blind. It was Elmo's fault, it was Elmo's fault! Oh look, my mouse works. I have an iPad mouse now, look,
I'm gonna open up Twitter. See, I can scroll through, look, it works great, it works great. I can, I dunno, search something. Test, test, okay. You know what, we're just gonna... - [Matt] The Jennifer Lawrence gif, really putting in work right now. - All right, hit me with an
item and make me feel better. That is an iPhone 11 Pro, what am I doing with an iPhone 11 Pro? Oh my. Water cooled mobile phone radiator. - [Ken] Now I wouldn't like to point out before you do anything.
- Yeah? This phone, is my personal 11 Pro Max. Now don't get any ideas. - Okay, I'm listening. - [Ken] Don't break it. - Look you've given me this phone after you've seen what I've done. So I take no responsibility
for what happens from this point forward. Okay, so we have what
seems to be an okay case, it's a little dirty but, oh my god. Okayay, so this is my
pump, yep, that's my pump. This is a terrible idea. Jesus Christ, this makes
me very uncomfortable. Okay, are you ready? We're about to water cool an iPhone for no discernible reason. Oh, look at that.
- Whoa! - Wait!
- Yo! - [Austin] Wait, is
something actually happening? - That's actually kinda sick.
- What? I mean, this is actually
doing something right now. We have actual coolant very slowly circulating
across the back of the iPhone, which in theory will keep things cooler. Look, man, if you want to Linus
the (bleep) out of your life then this is the device you need to keep your phone running
at optimal temperature. If you want to be a sane
normal person though, buy an ROG phone. Okay. So this is an 8bitdo controller. I've seen this, this is a
little mini Xbox controller. You realize this is for Android, right? - [Ken] Yes. - Not the iPhone that
I have in front of me. So I think this is really meant to be used with Xbox Game Pass. It's Xbox branded, you have
full Bluetooth support. But as far as I know this just works as a standard Bluetooth controller. Wow, that's actually really tiny. You know what? I don't usually like using
mobile controllers on phones, just because there's no real point in carrying around a huge controller. If I'm going to do that, I'd
rather have anything else. But this is actually small enough, I might be able to get away with this. Z Fold is not gonna fit
in this, there's no way. Wait, I think this oh,
actually that does, that fits. Nope. - Too heavy?
- You can tighten it, Jesus Christ!
- Oh my god, stop! - So right now I am playing
an Xbox One game via Game Pass on my Android Z Flip and that is being used
through the controller. I gotta say, this is a
much better experience than the water cooled iPhone. Okay, this looks suspicious, Ken. Voice changeable Bluetooth
smart karaoke headset. So is this like Tiktok in a box? - [Ken] I guess so. Okay, all right. So this is a karaoke machine. So essentially it comes
with a pair of headphones with a little microphone. So you're supposed to put
that in your ear like this. I can basically change to
a few different voices. So this is dodge. This is child. This is also dodge. This is KTV. And this is what it sounds
like with my normal voice. I could get (bleep) paid for
this right now, all right. One two. ♪ Slim shady hotter than
a set of twin babies ♪ ♪ In a Mercedes Benz with the
windows up temp goes out and ♪ Ah, (bleep), I (bleep) it up! ♪ Everybody wanna talk like
they got something to say ♪ ♪ But nothing comes out
when they move their lips ♪ ♪ Just a bunch of gibberish ♪ ♪ And (bleep) act like
they forgot about Dre ♪ ♪ Everybody wanna talk like
they got something to say ♪ ♪ But nothing comes out
when they move their lips ♪ ♪ Just a bunch of gibberish ♪ ♪ And (bleep) act like
they forgot about Dre ♪ ♪ If it was up to me You (bleep)
would stop coming up to me ♪ Ah! I quit, I quit, goodbye, I'll
see you next Mystery Tech.