- Sick, tired of building giant PCs. They're too big and Stupid. Just kidding, I love all pieces. But sometimes you need to shake things up. And that is exactly
what we're doing today. The X32 for X-Box is this spine style case that promises unique aesthetics,
strong GPU compatibility, and a solution to the problems
associated with large cases. Need to reach your rear IO? No problem. Wanna bring your PC to
visit a friend? Easy. Wanna hear about our
sponsor? The SmartDeploy? IT can deploy Windows, apps, bios updates, and security patches to any
device, anywhere from the cloud. Get your exclusive free
software worth over $570 at smartdeploy.com/Linus. (upbeat music) At just 3.2 liters. This is the smallest chassis
that we have ever looked at, but it's also not really
directly comparable to our previous record
holder, The Velkase Velka 3, because the X32 doesn't feel constrained by prude conventions like side panels. Just lets it all hang out,
If you know what I mean. Let's get this thing out of the box. (metal crack sound) Wow. There is really, not
a lot to it, is there? Oh, hold on, there's another piece. I've got my instructions right here, (metal scrap sound) but, honestly there doesn't
seem to be a whole lot to it. We've got panel A, which is the
motherboard tray right here. Then we've got panel B, I
call these side panels, ha ha. 'Cause technically they're on the side. This holds our GPU and power supply. PCI express riser, got
a power supply shroud. Oh, speaking of the power
supply, check this thing out. This is a flex size power
supply made by Delta. And despite its tiny size, it
can output 500 freaking Watts. At what sort of efficiency,
look how cute it is. There's also the bag of
very important hardware, including our power button
for the front of the case, or for wherever it goes on the case, standoffs and screws,
some little rubber feet. And these are actually going to be our very first installation step. Okay, and a lot doesn't stand on its own. (metal scrapping sound) What could go wrong, Brendan? Man, now that that's so perfect, I feel so much pressure,
putting on the other feet. All right. Now we can install the front switch. So it's got a nice little
silicone O-ring here and hopefully this is long enough to reach wherever it needs to go. Oh, this is really nice. Everything is lettered so
that you can't screw up. Which one you use? Oh, balls. (murmurs from distance) Oh, non-ferrous screws bad. I know it's premium, but I hate it. Okay. Install four B motherboard
standoff secured with four J screws. I think I did it right. I sure like picking up screws
with my hand, like a Chimp. (dog whimps) Oh my God. Honestly, I'm a little
confused by this step. They don't show where you're
supposed to route the PCI express ribbon cable for the riser. So I'm doing my best with it here. I think it's supposed
to go on like this so. It's not clear how the
whole thing goes together. And then it immediately becomes
apparent that I did not do it right. Oh, I wish
I'd done the SSD first, but now we know. The next step says attach cables to the power supply if modular and
our power supply is in fact modular, these arch trippy cables. You guys probably can't tell from there, but they're like super flexible. Okay. So they're silicone sleving.
It's all floppy doodling. The 24 pin comes down to only 14 pins, because you know what, I
guess you only live once. (chuckles) the eight pin,
comes down to four pins, (chuckles)the other more
different eight pin, for PCI express gets only
six pins on the power supply. And then we get a single
peripheral connector or rather a single peripheral cable
with two SETA connectors. The whole thing goes into
our shroud, a little. Sorry. Cool all.(whispering) One criticism of the power supply, which is part of the kit is
that these included cable Combs appear to be sized for
regular sleving or sheathing, and these silicone ones
come out really easily. So maybe we can try and use these later, but I'm not going to try
and put them on right now. I noticed that I've got socket
and screws for the power supply that are Imperial sized. And then, this appears to
be a metric head hex, screw. You need too many tools
to assemble this case. Oh crap. It looks like it is what? Yap. It's not cable managed rate. It's supposed to go in here. Does that even fit? Oh my God. Why don't we just undo everything
we've done then that's all it could have been prevented by, having the instructions being clear. So now we're looking at this side. Oh cool. Okay. Modular cables go through here. Get in there, man. Everything about this is just
not a millimeter despair, storage and power, just like that. And when I saw this thing, I was like, oh, that looks so cool. And now that I'm hands-on
with it, I'm like, Aw, so cool.(sniffs) We definitely have to add to
our list of things to evaluate (clears throat) how loud it is. Because the thing about
flex power supplies is a 40 millimeter fans. Not the greatest terms of quiet operation. Okay. Awesome. This is it. This is final assembly of the case. This clearly cannot go there. I see why they wanted you to
see cable manage down your PCI express power connector earlier because, once you close these up together, you no longer have access to any of this. Okay? Crazy. This is the kind of thing
I wouldn't recommend for first-time builder. Just because you have to kind
of have some understanding of where all the parts are likely to end up so that you can, envision what you're trying to work towards here. This is all screwed together. This comes out for the GPU. Right? See that, okay then over here, this is going to have to
kind of squeeze out under the motherboard, kind of like that. And I don't know, this
one will end up somewhere. This whole thing is so out of order, the next thing that we're
going to install is the GPU. We ended up going with an EBJ RTX 30, 60. This is one of their XC carts. Got a nice back plate, dual fan cooler. Our main reason for choosing
this is that we wanted this thing to be high performance,
but not ridiculous. And we also have to fit within
the constraints of our 500 watt power supply. So this is as powerful as
you'd be able to go on a build like this, without sort of, violating the spirit of building a super tiny machine, right? It overhangs the volume
of the case a little bit, but not that much, you know, before we actually put
it on for real though, we've got to put on the GPU bracket Mount, which is what's going to
allow us to screw in the, the PCI slot cover thing. This is one of those like, well, where does it go on kinds of things, if you were like, man, I don't want my PC to look
like everyone else's PC. fishing, mucking accomplished. This thing is so cool though. Now that we've basically
assembled the whole computer. Why don't we talk about what
we're going to put in it? Starting with the motherboard.
We had wanted to go 12th gen, but unfortunately we haven't
been able to get access to any 12th gen it exports yet. So we've gone with an ROG
STRIX Z590-I GAMING now, I understand that we went
a little overboard, get it. This is by far the highest
end piece of kit in our bill. But let me explain, because this is a tiny machine,
that gives us relatively little in terms of expansion options, a board like this gives
us as much as possible. So whether you want a couple
of MDOT 2 ports on a neat little riser card, or whether
you want funder bolt for, for expanded IO, that'll definitely be nice to
have once you've used up all of the six USBs on the back, this is going to have you
covered. Then in terms of our CPU, we've gone with a core i5-11600K. It's not exactly the world's fastest, most power-hungry chip, but we wanted to show the most
capable machine in this form factor. On the subject of the CPU, we actually chose this one
for a balance of decent performance, 6-core,
12 threads, Max Turbo, 4.9 gigahertz and reasonable heat output. Because while we could hang a
gigantic tower cooler off of a case like this, in fact that is one of
their advertised use cases. There's no limit whatsoever
to the size of the cooler you can put on it. I think that would be violating
the spirit of trying to build our smallest computer ever. If we had a dual tower cooler
that hangs this far off the side of the case. So instead, we've gone
with a Noctua NH-L9i it's not the most performant
cooler in the world, but at least it would fit if
the case had side panels and knocked to a does say that
as long as you have adequate ventilation, this should be able to
handle the 11600 core. For storage we're using
a combination of the SEDA SSDs that we installed before. Those are for more for bulk
storage and also just to show the capabilities of the
machine, and this crucial 1TBP5 plus. So this is a GEN4. NBME SSD that we're going to install in the topmost of our end
of two sandwich slots here. Now, normally I would take off, let's see the little blue
appeal on the thermal pad down here, but in these circumstances, I'm not going to because this
particular SSD doesn't have any chips on the bottom. So there's not really anything
for us to cool down there. We are concerned with
the top one here though. So let's go ahead and pull that off. There we go. That leaves only memory. So we've got two eight gig
sticks of 3600C16 memory from crucial. We could put
anything we wanted in here, obviously, because we're
not limited by the height, but we went with this. (upbeat music) (closing nuts) And that's it. Again I really
wish we could have gone 12th. GEN, make sure you're subscribed
because we'll definitely do something like that in the
future to the small form factor. But not today. We're gonna plug in our eight
pin CPU park connector and the four pin motherboard power connector. We're going to do our PCI
express connector here and then lower the whole thing into place. Okay. These silicone wires, very cool. Not necessarily easier to work with. We've got a recess down here. We've got to get a screw in
there and it's almost definitely going to fall off cause
it's non-ferrous Ferris. Bueller's day off. (dripping sound) It's pretty funny. And that's it. The
whole freaking computer. That is pretty cool. How
transportable is this thing? Extra like six cores,
nearly five gigahertz. I, you could put up to
64 gigs of RAM in it if you really wanted to 30, 60, we have five terabytes
of storage on here right now. And you could go even higher than that. If you really wanted to, it's not, let's fire it up and see if
it actually runs properly. Oh man, my teammate got
in the way of my bullets. He wanted to eat them all. Oh man. I was kind of hoping to be
alive at the beginning of this shot, but I guess it
doesn't really matter. Check this out. We're getting anywhere between
around 200 to 300 frames per second and CS go all
cranked 1440 P and like, look at this thing. This is our little banana
plushy LTT store for scale here got a little apple for scale. It's fricking tiny with that
said it's not that Wyatt. One of the things that your
side panels do is reflect noise from your fans back into your
case and kind of muffled them. You will get no such
functionality out of this. The other thing that contributes
to this is that while the GPU and CPU fan, are both near silent, this 40 millimeter fan
on the power supply. Yeah, it's, it's not, this is cool. We're not even
getting any thermal throttling. Our CPU is sitting up at around
90 degrees with our GPU at a chili 60 degrees because all
of the heat that is being kicked off the GPU is just
able to dissipate into the surrounding air. However CS go. Not exactly the world's most
CPU intensive application. And if we were to run
something that is a little bit heavier, like say for example, cinnameg, are we thermal throttling bomber? Yeah, that's the answer. If you happen to have ironically
choosing such a high end motherboard, actually hurt our
ability to cool the CPU with this particular style of
cooler because it packs so many SSDs and big IO shield, you know, aesthetic things around the
CPU socket that there's no room for the air to come out of the
fins and be dissipated into the surrounding air. So with this motherboard, we'd have to go with something
a little bit higher profile, or we'd have to go with the motherboard. That's a little more sparse, but even if we did upgrade the CPU cooler, addressing any of the
performance concerns I might have about this machine, that doesn't mean I would
necessarily recommend building your daily driver in the X 32. It's certainly cool. But it
comes with some trade-offs. Remember how I said it was
super transportable. I mean, that's true. It is. It's got this fricking thing, but you're going to run the
risk as you transport it of accidentally knocking a memory
slot out of your motherboard or accidentally scuffing your GPU. The other thing is, air flow. Yes, it has effectively
unlimited case ventilation, but there's nothing standing
in the way of all the dust and hair that's floating around in the air, which is why cases with filters, are often the way to
maintain your hardware. The last concern is price, especially considering it's steel, powder-coated construction, 180 US dollars is not exactly affordable. Yes, it's a very low volume
product. And you know, they can't use the same cost
saving measures that a large scale manufacturer might. But in terms of bang for the back, other than the uniqueness
as a conversation piece, I don't know. I kind of struggle with it. Definitely cool though. Just
like my segues to our sponsors, extra smart wallets are high-end
trackable wallets crafted to keep your valuables
safe, slim and stylish. They're premium leather, sourced from EWG gold
rated tanneries and their quick card mechanism gives you
easy access to every card you need. They feature RFID protection. So your money cards and identity
are kept safe and secure and extra wallets are trackable
worldwide through solar power GPS tracker inside. Lost your wallet? Use their app or call for
it through most virtual assistants, you can save 35% off site-wide
and score a free gift bag with extras, Christmas gifting sale. Check out the link below to learn more. Enjoyed this video. Maybe go check out our previous
best the Vel case Belkin three. Yeah, it was a little bigger, but it was also actually
contained being that's sort of, it's shared some of the same drawbacks, but definitely a fun build. I just 32 liters. This is the same.