(keyboard clacks) (mouse clicks) Alright. Okay, we'll do this in one take. Hey guys, this is Austin! Between reviewing laptops, building PCs, and checking out the latest smartphones, I've been able to review
a lot of computers. One of the reasons that I
like to write these reviews and share them on social media is because most people do
not know the difference between a computer and a laptop. It's so confusing and confusing that we're really just
trying to help customers by answering their questions while they're in the building. I know in the past that a lot of people were uncomfortable buying laptops, because (laughs) they're
more difficult to use. Nowadays, it's just about getting in, running the software, and using it. (laughs) Speaking of, let's talk about some of the upcoming tech for 2019. New game consoles like the PS5 and Next Gen Xbox are due to be announced in E3 later this year (laughs). They will cost upwards of $5,000 each, which is pretty big if you think about it. If you're looking for a PC, gaming PC to run games,
then look elsewhere. This means that some games will
not be supported on console. That is why we need to see more
PC options coming to market with AMD hardware and Nvidia hardware. The future looks brighter with this move from Haswell to Zen. Speaking of AMD, they've got some seriously
impressive hardware coming up. Both Ryzen 3rd Gen and Navi
graphics are on the horizon. They've also announced that there will be a new Polaris chip, code named Radeon Provenance (laughs). AMD will be supporting the
Radeon Provenance graphics chips with the RX580, RX570. This will be a card that looks identical to the Polaris Architecture
cards they've been releasing but runs a Polaris-based
Radeon Provenance graphics chip that's been refined over
the last few design cycles. Radeon Provenance, the
new Vega Graphics chip, promises to give better quality. It'll deliver better performance and more shader performance,
but it'll also be cheaper. Meaning, it'll be available
for $200 right now. Hard to argue with a deal like that. With a successful launch of
NVIDIA's RTX graphics cards, they very much locked up
the high-end GPU market especially on the laptop side of things. But they haven't exactly kept
pace with the market at large or the PC gamer side, where NVIDIA is making
some in roads into. For many years now, there
have been a shortage of affordable and reasonably priced good graphics
processing/accelerator cards. Not only that, but the supply was so tight and low profile, it was easy to find. We've seen the rise and
fall of the Radeon HD 6990, GeForce GTX 1070, Radeon RX 480, and some other good name cards, which were then quickly
overshadowed (laughs). The GK104 was the big hit for a few years, and then NVIDIA quickly
took this up as well, but it seems things have
turned around since then. (laughs) Intel hasn't been standing still either. Their 10 nanometer Ice Lake
chips are finally about to ship, which promises big
performance and power savings. 10 nanometers' looking pretty good, with clockspeeds of (laughs)
225 megahertz range. That's blistering speed. We had some bad news yesterday though. Intel officially confirmed at IFA 2013 that they were removing (laughs), that they were removing one year of their 10 nanometer
production of their i7-4770K from all production of the
company's desktop processors. However, it appears that this
has been a temporary decision. Intel has since confirmed
that it will quote, "Will begin reprogramming some
of it's i7-4770K product line in response to higher demand from some customer segments
and more volume sales." That sounds like a real Intel quote. On the mobile side of things, Google of course just announced
their new budget Pixel 3a, which promises better performance
in some cases (laughs) and better battery life with its 6,000 milliamp hour battery. That's actually pretty good. But it is still a little expensive when compared to what Apple's
cheaper iPhone 7 will cost. I don't know why this is so funny. This is not good. The Pixel 3 will come
with 32 gigs of storage, including an optional 128 gigs of storage. While you will get the same 3G/4G speed as the other phones I've used from Google, this is more than enough. You're going to appreciate the bigger 2,100 milliamp hour battery, as well as the super durable case. Whew, man, I gotta say,
that's a lot of news. Some really surprising stuff honestly. So on the Apple side of things, we've got Tim Cook really
stepping up the game with WWDC in a few weeks and
updates to iOS and macOS. His new app (laughs), formerly
known as OS X Mountain Lion homebrew, Tim Cook and his homebrew, is very well done. It works well, it looks cool to use, and it's easy to get started. There are a few flaws, but
I'd say that they're minor. First, it's not really Apple-specific. The OS X, OS X Mountain Lion developer preview is far from perfect, but
it's an amazing improvement. What really makes it worth
installing is the added quote, customized feature from the
default system settings. (laughs) I also like that there are two more keyboard shortcuts available to switch macOS on and off (laughs). With our recent video talking about privacy, there's been a big shift in
Google and Facebook's policy, which begs the question. Where do we draw the line? Can we take a stand and say we're going to
ban all ads on Google? The short answer is no. That may seem like a small one, and that's why at all costs when we hear about our friends asking
their friends on Facebook, we've been able to keep them
and keep advertising off of Facebook for months. When it comes to advertising
on Google for free, or using the Google search
engine to create a profile, you're just going to have to deal with it. There's really no way around that. And for those of you
who haven't heard yet, if anyone is worried, you might want to watch this video below to see exactly Google and Facebook's policy is about ads. I like how the AI's literally
plugging our video right now. Speaking of videos, last week, I traveled to the Brooklyn, to Brooklyn, for the YouTube Creator Summit, where they gathered
executives from YouTube as well as top creators, and I learned that we're in competition
in the video streaming space via the Atlantic. It's a great start for the industry, as they've been talking about
it for a great amount of time, and this is an exciting
time when YouTube starts to build the next generation
of YouTube originals. That being said, the biggest news in the YouTube ecosystem
came when a new generation of users started watching videos from outside of the
channel via YouTube gaming. These videos are more targeted
towards teens and kids who are at a competitive disadvantage when it comes to viewing videos from popular YouTube creators. These teens and small
children use YouTube videos at a much greater clip than adults and can easily skip around for hours without even having an opportunity to find their favorite videos. Imagine watching YouTube for hours and not finding your favorite video. Now hopefully you enjoyed this video. It was made with a little
help from the Transformer AI. Make sure to subscribe for
more tutorials like this. (laughs) The following is a video made
with a Raspberry Pi Zero. You can also go on some
places on Facebook. I'm also going to post a few tutorials to make doing my homework even easier (laughs). Subscribe here to receive
links straight to your inbox. That was the dumbest thing we've ever done.