- Today on "BROKE vs. PRO",
we're going to find out, is it better to upgrade your existing PC? - Or buy a new one? - And it's all thanks to
our kind sponsors here at Micro Center. Who's going first? - Oh, you want rock, paper, scissors? Okay.
- Yeah, all right. No, we go on shoot. Rock
paper, scissors, shoot. - Okay.
- Okay. - [Both] Rock paper, scissors, shoot. Rock, paper, scissors, shoot.
Rock, paper, scissors, shoot. Rock, paper, scissors, shoot. - Okay. (laughs)
- (laughs) See you later. So for my system, I'm starting out with a computer that I purchased from Goodwill. So it's about 10 years
old, it's got a i7-3930K, but there are a couple of things that definitely need to be upgraded. Today on "BROKE vs. PRO",
my goal is very simple. I have a system that is
basically all ready to go. I need to do a little bit of work to it and it will be pretty much
a victory-winning machine. I have made so many gains
when it comes to my budget that there's no way Ken can compete. Like Ken's gonna have to
get an entire pro setup, whereas I am gonna work with, what, a few hundred dollars and upgrades and my system will be
completely good to go. Like Ken doesn't have a shot at this. Today's my day, my
friends. Today is my day. So today, Ken is gone, which means that I am going
to begin preparations. Some might call this cheating.
I call it preparations. Rules are meant to be
creatively interpreted. The fact that someone built a
gaming PC with a 3930K shows that they had a lot more money
than sense, and I'm about it. I know I need a new graphics card. I know I need an SSD. Oh, I guess I need
peripherals and stuff too 'cause I can't use that. But what's Ken gonna do? - Today on "BROKE vs.
PRO", with the pro setup, I'm going to build my own PC from scratch, unlike normal, where I just
go in and buy a pre-built. Also, Austin doesn't know this, but I'm actually going to build this PC to put in the new Denki
gaming setup over in my studio because yeah, synergy and budget. - [Austin] I think the word you're looking for is embezzlement. - Embezzlement? I don't know what that is. - One of the things I'm
gonna be taking advantage of today is Micro Center's in-store deal. Where if you're a new customer, you can get yourself $25
off of a purchase over $100, which is helpful because
I need a graphics card and I wanna save the 25 bucks. It's not the easiest decision here, but the deals on these Arc
GPUs, I just can't get by. So I'm gonna commit to buying the SPARKLE A750 for 199. Last time, it helped me win against Jay. This time, it's gonna
help me win against Ken. Aw, aw. Wait, Ken's not gonna do a 4090, right? He wouldn't do that. I mean, I know he's got a pro budget, but that's kinda against the
spirit of the game, right? I wonder what Ken is gonna get, actually. So I would never condone
cheating for a "BROKE vs. PRO", but some investigative
journalism might be helpful. - [Ken] So I'm gonna go with an RTX 4070 for my graphics card because it'll offer
pretty good performance as well compared to my CPU. - He's getting a RTX 4070. He's not going as high as
I thought he was going to. I might have a shot. Sorry, I got a little distracted. You're not being subtle.
- Oh god, what? What? No, what? Oh man, I forgot. Where is my cart that I've just lost? Oh crap, my phone was on. Oh, unfortunate. - He's very subtle. Oh, we got it right here. So it is the WINDFORCE
RTX 4070 from Gigabyte. And this is actually at a
pretty good price as well, 599. Man, Austin's out here trying to cheat, trying to sneak around
and see what I'm up to. You see, my PC involves
a little bit of work. I have to build it from scratch. Austin on the other hand, he has to take a PC that's already built and make it into something better, which I know is not
necessarily the easiest thing in the world, but half
his work's already done. The other thing that I'm missing from my gaming PC is an SSD. Because I am restricted to using a SATA SSD
instead of a newer M.2, I think my best move is going
to be this Crucial BX500. It's 480 gigs, but it's only 24.99. That is gonna help a lot,
which means that I'm gonna be, what, roughly $425 in right now. - So for the setup, I think
I wanna go air-cooled. I think the idea here is that it'll be a pretty
simple way to build it. If I do an AIO, it's gonna
take a little more time. Again, I want this aesthetic
to be pretty clean. The Noctua beige, while
it's not a big deal, is not the newest and most
modern-looking colorway. So we're gonna do the black here. - Because I've spent a
relatively large amount on my graphics and my
SSD and my gaming pc, I need to get my peripherals
for next to nothing. This might be what I'm looking for. This is the Battle Crate, which comes with a performance keyboard, precision mouse, gaming headset for $9.99. I got this. I'm about
to become victorious. I'm about to open the Battle Crate and enjoy the loot and plunder within. If you're located in
Charlotte, North Carolina, then do I have some good news for you. In early 2024, there will be a brand new
Micro Center location. If you sign up using the link in the description, you'd be able to get yourself a free 128-gig
flash drive only in-store. - Oh. (laughs) Yes, I've been wanting to
build in the Fractal North for a long time. Look at these wood accents. This would belong in the
Denki studio. Look at this. It almost looks like a furniture piece. My system's got an Intel 12700K,
a 4070, and 64 gigs of RAM, all in a Fractal North case. I got this in the bag.
- You know, it's funny, like Ken comes in here with this swagger that he's gonna just
wipe the floor with me. And what evidence does he have, 7 to 13 episodes of "BROKE vs.
PRO" in a row where he's won? Pft. (snickers) Clearly, past results do not
guarantee future outcomes. I want literally the cheapest
monitor that they sell. Ooh, ooh, ooh, I found something. Okay, so looking at the site, there's an AOC 21-inch
monitor that's $59.99. Where is this? I need this. It's in Desktops. Desktops, to Desktops! AOC, yo, let's go. Okay, so here we go,
so this is the 22B3HM. Most importantly, it's 60 bucks. So this is a 1080p, 75-hertz monitor. - Okay, so I wanna get an LG monitor, but in particular, they
have a 27-inch 2K OLED that I've been having my eyes on forever. But again, they only have one in stock, and in fact, I don't
see it on the LG wall. It's a shame, I really wanted that 27-inch LG UltraGear OLED, but it looks like Micro
Center has another option with the same panel. So no difference there,
I might actually be good. All right, so we're finished
shopping for our setup. Now let's take it back to the studio and actually do the proper build. I'm excited as hell, this
is a lot of cool stuff. All right, so we're
finally back in the studio and it's time to build the pro setup. It's actually a bit overwhelming. There's a lot of stuff
to get through here, but I'll take you every step of the way while Austin does whatever
the hell he's doing with his broke setup. - All right, so while Ken is upstairs in the studio building his system, I have a much easier job in front of me. So again, I've got
myself the 480-gig BX500, which is a SATA SSD, as
well as my SPARKLE Arc A750. All I've gotta do is install
my GPU, install my SSD, get a copy of Windows
and some drivers going, and I'll be good to go. In fact, I'm gonna be done so early, I might have room for extracurriculars like arts and crafts. (steady music) - Okay, so our PC is basically all built, but before I button it up, I want to see that it POSTs first. In order to do that, I gotta plug in some
of my accessories here. Look at this. - That's so nice.
- It's thinner than me. - [Luke] Well... (laughs) - I already took the liberty
of unboxing the Model O, but I'm really curious
about the MelGeek Mojo68. And I got it mainly 'cause of the look. Even though a lot of our
aesthetics are black, I figured this would be a
nice like addition of color. (keyboard clacking) Oh, that sounds good,
and they're linears too. So they're gonna be great for shooters. Might not be the best
keyboard just for gaming, but I think it's gonna be a
pretty well-rounded option for both typing productivity, but especially gaming
since they're linear. Fingers crossed, maybe we
might POST on the first try. My odds of winning, pretty high, I think, even though I don't exactly know what Austin's building or upgrading, but that's kind of the point, is I only think his
upgrades can go so far. - All right, so I have
installed my graphics card, installed the SSD, got a fresh copy of Windows
10 fully up to date, and I've started to install the things that I'm going to need to beat Ken. That includes "Warzone", "Valorant", 3DMark, as well as Cinebench. Now of course, this is "BROKE vs. PRO". I am not going to actually
win the competition of most powerful system, and he's going to have
clearly way better accessories and peripherals than I
do, a way better monitor. But what I'm aiming for
is not to outright win. No, it is to prove that it is,
in some cases such as mine, better to upgrade an existing
system for far less money. And considering that I was
able to buy the system for $200 and spend less than $300 on graphics, SSD, mouse, keyboard,
monitor, the whole works, I'm feeling pretty good. I wonder how Ken's doing. I'm sure it's all sunshine and rainbows and he is not running into
any issues whatsoever. - I'm hoping that the bootloop is an actual just POSTing
thing and not bootlooping because I did something wrong. It was wireless, right? Oh. Yes!
- Yay, let's go! - I'll take it, I'll
take it. So it all works. So all I have to do now is
just get Windows installed and it'll be time to beat Austin. Man, I spent so long building this PC, but it wasn't the actual build
part that was the problem. It was some issues that
I was having in Windows. Fingers crossed that Austin
also had to run into problems, jerry-rigging whatever upgrades he needed to put into his build. - Now Ken might've had
a more difficult setup with the entire PC to build or something, but at least I didn't
take all day, all night, and a chunk of the next
day to build my setup. I just dusted it off, used some Sharpie to clean up some marks, put a graphics card and
SSD in, install Windows. Pft, it took a matter of an hour, easy. All right, it is time for
the head-to-head battle. What? What is this? Is this the INZONE? Matt.
- Yeah, it's the INZONE H9. - [Austin] You gotta ding him points for spending too much money. - I mean it's the pro setup. That's kind of the point, isn't it? - No, the point is to go into Micro Center and get lovely, wonderful deals. Where are your Micro Center deals? - There were good deals, but
also really good selection. So this is a MelGeek Mojo68, which I didn't even know they sold at Micro Center.
- I do not either, wow. - How about your computer? I see some RGB. Oh, is this the Fractal North?
- It is the Fractal North. And I went with an all-black build, even though I did get
the case with the glass and the frosted window. And I went minimal with the lighting 'cause honestly like I thought that just something blinking
would honestly be fine. Though obviously, I could just turn it off if I don't like it. - [Austin] Yeah, I'm curious, how much was this OLED monitor? I hear that they're quite expensive, Ken. - 850 bucks. - For context, that's
more than my entire setup, and then a nice trip to Applebee's. Okay, so 12700K, what about
the rest of your setup? - So 64 gigs of ram. - That's not necessary. - Especially with a previous generation processor, even I know that.
- Hmm, even at 13th gen. Man.
- Hmm. - [Austin] Ken, is it fair to ask at this point the overall
price of your computer setup? Is that something I can ask? - [Matt] Yeah, I'd love to know this. - Okay, final tally, $3,019. - Okay, so I'll say
that my budget was $500 and I did also exceed it by $7.
- Oh, what? - 507 bucks, that's the grand
total of my entire setup. Monitor, mouse, keyboard. Would
you like to come over here? Come take a look. I had to
do a couple of upgrades. - Yeah.
- So I did purchase for $200, the Arc, which is by
far my largest purchase. - [Matt] So that's $400. - Yep, then I spent another $25 on an SSD because this did not come with the boot drive.
- Okay. - [Austin] So I've got a
480-gig Crucial SATA drive, since this is a little
bit too old for M.2. - Mm-hm.
- And then I spent $60 on my beautiful AOC monitor,
21.5-inch, 1080p, 75 hertz. That's a lot of hertz,
and to round it off- - Okay, you're gonna get 75
hertz after this screensaver. - It's a beautiful screenshot of a This Is video that
you should check out. Would you like to take a look at my mouse, keyboard, and headset? - So
- 'Cause I'm particularly proud of these.
- I happen to know for a fact that this was a bundle and I've never seen a bundle that looks nothing like each piece. This all came in one box. - Mm-hm.
- These look like three completely different brands.
(Ken laughs) - Ken, you spent 300, 45,
you spent $570, I spent $10. - Yeah.
- That's the difference. So is his 57 times better than mine? - In this case. (Austin laughs)
I am often not pro setup. - So now that we've
shown off these systems, let us go head to head
in a couple of games to see first of all,
who's the better gamer, and then we'll try benchmarking
and actually deciding which one of these is best, but it's mine. Our first match is going
to be inside of "Valorant". How are we actually setting this up? What kind of match do you wanna do? - So this is just gonna be a deathmatch. Like I think just plain and dry, we'll see who gets the most
kills against each other. When you got a lot of frames to work with, like you have with my PC
and an awesome monitor with a lot of hertz, you do
get a competitive advantage. And I think I'm going
to actually win this, not just because I'm a
better gamer than Austin, but because my hardware is
actually better as well. - I mean with a game like "Valorant", this does not look bad. There is a little bit of
screen tearing going on, but not anything egregious. Standing still is definitely a good tactic when shooting things. (gun reports)
- Heh, oh! (Ken laughs)
- Okay. - What's up? What's up?
- I got greedy. - Apparently, that was a good tactic. - [Austin] What, I feel
like your headset's cheating 'cause you can hear me from like the whole map away.
- That's the point. - Where is he? I hear him.
(Ken laughs) (guns reporting) - Man, it's like playing
with a toddler. (laughs) - This might be the worst
I've ever been beaten in a gaming section of "BROKE vs. PRO", and it's not the PC's fault. Ken just beat me. - Well, you got second. - I... (laughs)
(Ken laughs) "Valorant" is a pretty easy game to run, but "Warzone 2.0" most certainly is not. And this is the point
where my system is going to really struggle. While I have a quite good graphics card, my CPU and the rest of my components are pushing
10 years old at this point. And there's only so much that we can realistically expect here. - [Matt] I will say, a lot more screen
tearing this time around. - [Austin] Yeah, so I'm sub-60 FPS and I could technically lower
my settings a bit even more. (gun reporting)
Get him, get him, get him. - [Ken] Oh, Jesus. Wait,
no, I'm getting shot. Ah.
- Wait, wait, what? Out of two games, I got one kill. So maybe not looking too
great for Team Austin here. But luckily, we've got lots of other ways that I can try to argue my case, like benchmarks and the subjectiveness of how great my system is for the money. Clearly, you win the graphics, but it's only about double my score, which considering how
much less, not crazy. - So if you add up their scores and divide it by their systems,
Austin has a score of 34.4. - Okay. - Ken has a score of 24.1. - Are you kidding me? So you're trying to say if
you have a PC that's like over 10 years old and
you spend a little bit of money to upgrade it, that it's going to be
better than something that's up-to-date and newer and can play everything
for the next 10 years? (Austin laughs) - Yeah, that's what you get,
Ken. That's what you get! - The aesthetic-wise, Ken's case is just, mm, (smooches) it is gorgeous. Looking at the monitor, the monitor again, gorgeous, but $850. - Mine was 60. - Looking at your system,
- Yeah. - it don't look good. You know, it don't-
- (laughs) I'll admit, aesthetic's not my strong suit. - The Intel Arc was
definitely the way to go. It really made your system sparkle. - Ha! Got it. I think it's pretty close. I don't think it's easy
to call the winner here. - There's no way he is
gonna win this at all. - Is the gamer way more important if he has to spend six times my budget? I don't think so. - In the spirit of "BROKE vs. PRO", I've gotta go with the
pro setup here on this one - Ah! (groans)
because buying these components actually helped
him be a better gamer. - It did actually, yeah.
- You know, like it's always hard to be like, yeah, go drop $3,000 on a system, but he had the tools and he
used them to kick your ass. - Ah, I'm happy with my system. I really feel like buying
that gaming PC for 200 bucks and spending another
like $230 in upgrading, the real crucial essentials
that I needed was well worth it. I think where I was let
down was with my peripherals and I think if I would've
spent like literally $50 more, I think I could have had a
significantly better experience. Of course, huge thank you to Micro Center for sponsoring this
episode of "BROKE vs. PRO". If you'd like to take a look
at any of the items we used in this video, those links
will be in the description. And until next time, I
should finally go get good. But we know that's not gonna happen. I'm gonna win today because Ken smells. (Austin laughs) - [Crew Member] That's not nice.