- This might just be
the absolute best bang for the buck gaming CPU you could buy. And it's exclusive to
our long time friends and sponsors over at Micro Center. Meet the AMD Ryzen 5 5600X3D. The 3D is important. This is a brand new
CPU launching tomorrow, and essentially what you're getting here is the gaming performance of
some of the absolute best CPUs on the market at a fraction of the price or at least that's what the story goes. Let's actually see how this thing works. Let's play some games, fool. The secret sauce on why
this is better for gaming has to do with the 3D V-cache
built into the processor. Now, to understand what that does let me give you a little bit of an analogy on how an actual computer works. So when it comes to gaming, we have to feed our CPU, but the problem is, is our CPU is right here, (box thuds)
and all our data is all the way over here in our SSD. So as you can see, we have an expert visualization, which is, this is data. Some people, I call it "Orbies." I call it ones and zeros, except they're all zeros. But don't worry about that part. So when I'm playing a game, I gotta get my data from my
SSD all the way down to my CPU. Well, the first step is, I take it from here and I dump it into my RAM. Now the RAM is much closer to the CPU and significantly faster, but it's still very slow compared to the actual cache built-in. So again, I'm gonna
take my data from here. I'm gonna bring it over
and load it into my cache. As you can see, the cache
is very close to the CPU and I can dump that pretty quickly. The problem is, is that
the cache on a normal CPU is quite small. So on the standard Ryzen 5 5600X, this is about 32 megabytes, actually pretty big in
all things considered, but nowhere near as big as this. So if I get rid of this, (glass shattering)
we don't need that. (glass shattering)
I upgrade to myself to the 3D V-cache. You can see that I can now
load my CPU up much faster. With my 3D V-cache, what I can do is I can just load up all
kinds of data from my RAM. Look how much of that is, that's so much data. And then I can fire up
my CPU really quickly. - [Joanna] Oh, oh, okay. - So basically what this means is that now my CPU was fed
with all kinds of data. 96 megabytes of cache built-in, which means that while you
might have orbies on your floor, you have more of them in your CPU than if you had to take them bit by bit. The idea here is that with 3D V-cache, you have about triple
the size of the cache, which means that while it
won't speed up everything. And we'll get into some of the pros and cons a little bit later. But specifically for gaming, having this larger cache
to work with compared to the smaller one on a standard chip, means that certain games can see a significantly higher
level of performance. And this is the first time that this kind of tech has been brought
down to a Ryzen 5, specifically this 5600X3D. Does that make sense? I hope so, cause I, there's a lot of orbies on the floor that I'm now gonna have to clean up, because of my analogy. (color bars beeping) So now I'm going to be building myself a gaming PC-based around this 5600X3D. Now the real star of the show is actually going to be
pairing it with the 6950 XT. This is AMD's last generation flagship GPU that launched like a thousand dollars. Thankfully, it's come down a lot in price and why I don't think a lot of people are going to build this specific system? What I do wanna find out is by throwing a very high-end GPU with 4K and super high frame rate gaming at it, can this CPU keep up? Because let's keep in mind, this only costs $230. Although right now, Micro
Center have a bundle where in addition to the 5600X3D, you can also get yourself an
ASUS B550-PLUS TUF motherboard, as well as 16 gigs of
G.SKILL for only $330. And because it is a Ryzen
5000 Series processor, it still is fully compatible
with AM4 motherboards. So obviously, we have
a brand new one here, but if you're maybe upgrading from a slightly older Ryzen system, assuming you have a BIOS
that is compatible with this, which most somewhat newer boards will, you could theoretically
get yourself a major boost to gaming performance
without having to upgrade to a new motherboard to have
to pay a lot of extra money for a DDR5 and whatnot. This is essentially a drop in upgrade and of course, it's
exclusive to Micro Center. So let's put the system together and see exactly how well it performs. (upbeat music) Say hello to Big Red. - [Voiceover] Wow! - Now this total system
costs just under $1,600 from Micro Center. I'd say it actually looks pretty nice. So we've got it in the Hyte
Y40 case specifically in this red, which I think looks terrific. It's also, of course, paired
with the Phantom gaming version of the 6950 XT, which we
have hopefully coded to be, not RGB, just R, because Radeon, (upbeat music) we're also rocking 32 gigabytes of CORSAIR Vengeance RGB RAM, one terabyte Samsung 970 EVO Plus SSD, and we've also got a Fully-Modular 850 Watt Powerspec Power Supply. So when you put this all together, I'll fully admit, it's not a configuration that I think a lot of gamers would choose. I think typically when you get to this 15, $1,600 price point, you're gonna be running
with a Core i7 or a Ryzen 7, or even like an i9 or
a Ryzen 9 or something. But what I really wanna know is, is this 5600X3D powerful enough to properly feed our
GPU when it comes to 4K and 1080p high frame rate? Let's test the system out with some games that are very sensitive to frame rate, which is typically where the CPU makes the biggest difference. So we're gonna start out with Apex not only running at 1080p, but we're also gonna try it
at 4K to see the difference. (Austin vocalizing) TSAA is fine. Ultra, ultra, ultra. Yeah, I mean, there's no
reason why we can't run this on very, very high. So here, we're basically
capping out at 140 FPS. So here it seems pretty clear that we are running up
against the 144 FPS cap that's running by default. So I actually wanna try to
see what we're getting in 4K, 'cause that I think will
be a lot more demanding. Oh, my God, we're still 144 at 4K? Oh, wait, no, no, we're
dipping slightly below. I'm seeing like 138, 140. Oh, wow, okay, actually, you know what? I didn't think I would need to do this. I actually need to go and fully uncap the frame rate in Steam. I will admit, I have never
had to do this before. So I'm going to set it
as max unlimited fps. (upbeat music)
Tryin' to run unlimited fps. All right, you know what,
I'm actually kind of excited. To be fair, I'm playing right
now on a 4K 120 Hertz monitor. So I can't see 4K at 200 FPS. Dude, this looks phenomenal in 4K and like everything like maxed out. Like the level of detail
you get here with this map, oh, that frame rate's coming up now. We're up to 180 FPS at 4K? Yo, and we're running
on ultra settings. Let's turn it down to 1080p and let's see what
happens to our frame rate. 'Cause this'll be an even bigger test of what the CPU can do. (Austin laughing)
(Austin applauding) 300 FPS. And in fact, it is, is it capped at 300 FPS? I actually think that Apex
is running up against a cap, 'cause it is pretty much stuck at 300 FPS. So we're gonna try CS:GO. We'll start out 4K. I don't know anyone
who plays CS:GO at 4K, but, science. All right, let's do, oh, my God. Well, I immediately say, we're at 350, 370 FPS at 4K. My dude, that's a lot of frames. Like, obviously I'm gonna try 1080p, but (chuckling) I'm gonna switch my settings
real quick to 1080p and laugh at how hilariously
high my frame rate is. Wait, we're 1080p. It's basically the same frame rate. (Austin chuckling) We're still at 400 FPS. You know what, what we're
running into right now? We're running into a pure CPU bottleneck, which makes sense at 400 FPS. Okay, let's do this, let's do this. I'm gonna see what it
looks like at 400 FPS. How do you do fellow 400 FPSers? Okay, we got this. We got this fam, we got this. (soft upbeat music) Nope, nope. Okay, that's fine, that's fine. You know what? I was there for team support. Anyway, apparently, oh.
(gun firing) (gun firing)
(alert chiming) Okay, so I guess what we've learned here, is that this game is playable
at 400 FPS at 1080 or 4K, because that's such a ridiculous number that we're completely CPU bound. So for Fortnite, I already know that this game will run
well on this system. That's not a question, but what I wanna see is how
high we can push the frame rate in a more esports sort of context. So I'm gonna start at 4K, I will switch to 1080p in a second, but what I've done is
I've set the settings to be basically epic but I've turned off the
extra bells and whistles. So things like Nanite, Ray Tracing, those are all off. I'm running just standard at FXAA. I wanna see what we can get with a nice looking image
without all the extra stuff, 'cause this game will look terrific
by turning everything on. But even with this 6950 XT, we will not be crushing like crazy, crazy frame rates. So I wanna try this and then we will settle
the resolution down. But I really wanna hit
well above a hundred FPS like I think that's
really what I wanna know. But yeah, at 4K, we're 80, 90 FPS, which looks terrific, but let's try 1080p. So I'm gonna give you about
a hundred FPS in 1080p, which is interesting. So while every game is different, a good rule of thumb is that
for lighter weight titles that are a little bit
more esports in nature where you really care about
every frame per second, doing things like turning
your resolution down, will actually make a
fairly big difference. Whereas, when you crank
it to like 4K and whatnot, you're putting a little
bit more of the stress on your GPU instead of your CPU. So what we've seen here
is solid performance and games that are really
dependent on the FPS. But now actually let's go ahead and try some more triple A
graphically demanding titles to get a little bit of a better picture of how the system performs. Importantly, how the 5600X3D performs. So first of all, I'm gonna
hop into Forza Horizon 5. So this is a game that I would say is not massively challenging to run, but when you crank it
all up especially at 4K, it looks really nice. So we'll try on FPS, motion blur's fine, V Sync off, 4K unlocked, yada yada yada. I think this should be totally reasonable. So let's actually hop into
a game and see what it does. Okay, so inside of Forza Horizon 5 on extreme settings at 4K, we're getting about 90 to a hundred FPS. It looks like 4K is just no problem here. Gonna hop into the settings. Let's see what happens
when we pop it up to 1080p. So hopping down to 1080p we've now jumped our
frame rate up actually by not like a huge amount
by about 180, 190 FPS. Next up, let's try Cyberpunk 2077. We're running it both 1080 and 4K. I'm running it basically ultra settings, but without the extra bits of bobs. So I don't have any like
FidelityFX turned on and I don't have any Ray Tracing. This system can handle it, but if I turn on all of that, honestly what it's gonna do is it's just gonna make
this a pure GPU test. And while I love the 6950 XT, I know what this gen of graphics card can do. I wanna see what more of
what this CPU performance is actually gonna be like. Whoa, wait a minute. Wow. So we are at about 45 FPS right now. Let's hop on the bike and give this a little
bit of a stress test. Oh wow, okay, so that actually, uh-huh, that's actually not crushing it if I'm being honest with you. So we're getting about 30 to 35 FPS, especially, it's a
little bit more demanding as I'm sort of riding around on the bike, but we're actually, we're getting some
severe frame drops here. Let me actually open up the settings here and let's try it 1080p. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on a second. Switching from 4K to 1080p, literally quadruple my frame rate. That's really interesting. So that's a really extreme scale and to me, what it sounds like is that we are 100% GPU-bound, right? Because, I mean, 4K is four
times the pixels of 1080p but I guess that just, to me, just means that
we're entirely relying on the 6950 XT here, and at the CPU, it's not
really stressed all that much. That is wild. I had never seen
Cyberpunk scale like that. That's crazy, to see almost
a perfect linear scale between resolution and frame rate, which really just does go to show that you can't just look
at a couple of benchmarks and just decide that, "Oh, that's it," and that sort of decides the whole thing, because every game is different. And the way that the
CPU actually interacts with these things, it's really, really interesting. But that I will say, hands down, one of the most
extreme graphics scaling I've ever seen. (air whooshing)
I wanna be clear, this 3D V-cache is not a gimmick. Now, is it going to be
a magical be all end all that's gonna, you know,
fix all performance issues? No, of course not. It's an additional cache
built into your CPU, which is going to be helpful
in certain situations. I think it's just worth considering that it's not going to
give you a huge uplift in every game, right? It is going to be game dependent. And a lot of games these days
are not massively CPU-bound especially some of that
sort of more triple A titles that the games that are
super graphically demanding where you're going to see
more of the benefit here are games that are going to
be pushing high frame rates than you wanna push even higher. The kinda games where you're
going to be really caring about every frame per second. And that I think is
where this really shines. Because if I'm thinking about
who should buy this 5600X3D, it's gonna be someone who either is going to be playing a lot of games that are very CPU dependent and you wanna be pushing crazy frame rates to make sure that you're super competitive or someone who is potentially on an older Ryzen based system and they want a CPU upgrade. I think this is really cool that Micro Center have this exclusive CPU. And I think for certain people this is going to be absolutely perfect. The 5600X3D is a solid option and of course, it's exclusively available at your friendly local Micro Center, which of course, I'll have
more information on that. The link in the description, as well as all the other
parts I use for this build. And of course, Micro Center is expanding. So not only is the Indianapolis store right around the corner, but two new stores will be coming soon, Charlotte as well as Miami. And you can still get your
hands on a 128 gig Flash Drive by signing up at the
link in the description. In addition, if you're
a brand new customer you can get yourself
$25 off of any new CPU, including the one from the bundle. (clears throat) The one that
you should probably grab. And it is back to school
month at Micro Center which means that they have
tons of deals on nice keyboard, Chromebooks, you name it. So let me know what you
think about the 5600X3D in the comments below. And until next time, I will see you at Micro Center.