In January of 2024, right on the heels 
of a serious drought across the state,   a major storm slammed into the Hawaiian islands 
of Oahu and Kauai. Severe winds caused damage to   buildings, and heavy rain flooded roadways. 
At the Waiau Steam Turbine plant,   the rain reached some of the generator unit 
controls, tripping two units and knocking 100   megawatts of power off the tiny grid (roughly 10% 
of demand). The overcast weather also meant solar   panels weren’t producing much electricity, and the 
colossal battery systems at Kapolei  and Waiawa were running out of juice. 
Other generating units were out of service due to   maintenance scheduled during the cool winter 
months when power demands were lowest. Then,   the H-POWER trash-to-energy plant tripped 
offline as well. By the evening of January 8th,   all of Hawaiian Electric’s power 
reserves on Oahu were depleted,   and it was clear that they weren’t going to have 
enough generation to meet all the needs. And if   you can’t increase supply, the only other 
option is to force a reduction in demand. At around 8:30 PM, the utility implemented rolling 
outages across the island of Oahu to bring power   demands down to a manageable level. For about 2 
hours, the utility blacked out different sections   of the island for 30 minutes each to minimize 
the inconvenience. Twice since then, as of   this writing, rolling outages have been forced on 
Hawaii Island from unexpected trips at generators   and scheduled maintenance at backup facilities, 
making them unavailable to pick up the slack. When we say “power grid” we’re used to imagining 
interconnections that cover huge areas and serve   tens to hundreds of millions of people. But 
populated islands need a stable supply of   electricity too. Those recent power disturbances 
highlight some really interesting challenges that   come from building and operating a small 
power grid, so I thought it would be fun   to use the 50th state as a case study to 
dive into those difficulties. I’m Grady,   and this is Practical Engineering. Today 
we’re talking about the Hawaiian power grid. Really, I should say Hawaiian power grids, 
because each populated island in the state   has its own separate electrical system. Around 
95% of customers are served by a single utility,   Hawaiian Electric, which maintains grids 
on Oahu, Maui, Hawaii Island, Lanai,   and Molokai. Kauai is the only island with its 
own electric cooperative. There have been a few   proposals and false starts to connect the islands 
through undersea transmission cables and form a   single grid. It is an enormous challenge to 
install and maintain cables of that depth   and distance. When you add in the volcanic and 
seismic hazards of the area and the sensitive   ecology of the surrounding ocean, so far, no 
one has figured out how to make it feasible. So,   each island has its own power plants, high-voltage 
transmission lines, substations, and distribution   system entirely disconnected from the others. 
And that makes for some interesting challenges. “Reliability” is the name of the game 
when it comes to running an electrical   grid. It’s not that complicated to build 
generators, transmission lines, transformers,   et cetera. What’s hard is to keep them all 
running 99.9% of the time, day and night,   rain or snow. Yeah, some parts of Hawaii 
occasionally get snow.  This is a graph of a typical reliability curve that helps explain why 
it’s a challenge. At the left end of the curve,   you can get big increases with a small investment. 
But the closer you get to 100 percent uptime,   each increment gets a lot more expensive. 
It really boils down to the fact that,   in many ways, reliability comes from 
redundancy. When something goes wrong,   you need flexibility to keep the grid up. But, 
in practice, that means you have to pay for and   maintain equipment and infrastructure that rarely 
gets used, or at least not to its full capacity. Hopefully, it’s clear that the graph I 
showed is idealized. It’s much harder   to put concrete numbers to the question. 
The random nature of problems that arise,   our inability to predict the future, and the 
fact that everything in a bulk power system is   interconnected all make it practically impossible 
to know how much investment is required to achieve   any incremental improvement in reliability. 
But it’s useful anyway because the graph helps   clarify the benefits of a large power grid, 
also known as a “wide area interconnection.” For one, it smooths out demand. One part of a 
region may have storms while another has good   weather. From east to west, the peak power demand 
comes at different times. Some areas get sun,   some get shade. But overall, demands average out 
and become less volatile as the grid gets bigger   geographically. Larger interconnections also 
have more redundant paths for energy to flow,   reducing the impacts of major equipment problems 
like transmission line outages. They have more   power plants, again creating redundancy and 
making it easier to schedule offline time to   maintain those facilities. And, the power plants 
themselves can be bigger, taking advantage of the   economies of scale to make energy less expensive 
and more environmentally beneficial. Finally,   larger areas have more resources. Maybe it’s 
windy over here, so you can take advantage and   build wind turbines. Maybe this area has lots 
of natural gas production, so you can produce   power efficiently without having to pay for 
expensive fuel transportation. In general,   a wide area interconnection allows the costs 
of equipment, infrastructure, resources, and   operations to be shared, making it easier to keep 
things running reliably. Hawaii has none of that. Roughly 75% of the electric power in the 
state currently comes from power plants that   run on petroleum. There are no oil or natural gas 
reserves in Hawaii, which means the vast majority   of power on the islands comes from fuel imported 
from foreign countries. That makes the state very   susceptible to factors outside of its control, 
including international issues that affect the   price of oil. Each island has only a handful 
of major power plants and transmission lines.   And when storms happen, they often hit the entire 
place at once. It’s easy to see why retail energy   costs in Hawaii are around 3 times the average 
price paid across the US. Every increment of   reliability costs more than the one before it, and 
each island has no one else to share those costs   with. So, they get passed down to consumers. 
But, it’s not just that the grids are small. The bulk of the remaining roughly 25% of Hawaii’s 
electric power not produced in oil-fired power   plants comes from renewable sources: wind, 
solar, and a single geothermal plant. This   has the obvious benefit of reducing CO2 emissions, 
but it also reduces the state’s exposure to the   complexities of the fuel supply chain and price 
volatility, taking advantage of resources that are   actually available on the islands. But, renewable 
sources come with their own set of engineering   challenges, particularly when they represent 
such a large percentage of the energy portfolio. Of course, renewable sources are intermittent. 
You don’t get power when the wind doesn’t blow   or the sun doesn’t shine. That sporadic 
nature necessitates options for storage   or firm baseload to make up the difference 
between supply and demand. It also makes it   more complicated to forecast the availability of 
power to plan ahead for maintenance, fuel needs,   and so on. And, it requires those storage 
facilities or baseload plants to ramp down   and up very quickly as the sun and wind come and 
go. But that’s not all. Solar and wind sources   are also considered “low-inertia”. Thermal 
and hydroelectric power plants generally use   enormous turbines to generate electricity. Those 
big machines have a lot of rotational inertia that   stabilizes the AC frequency. The frequency of the 
alternating current on the grid is basically its   heartbeat. It’s a measure of health, indicating 
whether supply and demand are properly balanced.   If frequency starts to deviate too much, equipment 
on the grid will sense that something’s wrong and   disconnect themselves to prevent damage. The same 
is true for lots of industrial equipment and even   consumer devices. When conditions on the grid 
fluctuate - say a transmission line or generator   suddenly trips offline - the rotational inertia in 
those big spinning turbines can absorb the changes   and help the grid ride through with a stable 
frequency. Solar panels and most wind turbines   connect to the grid through inverters. Instead of 
heavy spinning machines creating the alternating   current, they’re basically just a bunch of little 
switches. That means disturbances can create a   faster and more significant effect on the grid, 
reducing the quality of power and making it more   difficult to keep things stable. I’m planning a 
deep dive into how inverter-based energy sources   work, so stay tuned for that in a future video. 
But, it gets even more complicated than that. Of all the renewable energy on the Hawaiian 
islands, about half currently comes from   small-scale solar installations, like those on 
residential and commercial rooftops. They’re   collectively known as “distributed energy 
resources.” This has the obvious benefit   of bringing resources closer to the loads, 
reducing strain on transmission lines. It also   takes advantage of space that is already developed 
and builds capacity on the grid without requiring   the utility to invest in new facilities. But, 
distributed sources come with tradeoffs. Most   parts of the grid are built for power to flow 
in one direction, so injecting electricity at   the downstream end can create unexpected loads 
on circuits and equipment not designed to handle   it. Distributed sources also affect voltage and 
frequency, since something as simple as a cloud   passing over a neighborhood can dramatically swing 
the flow of power on the network. The inverters on   small solar installations are generally dumb. 
And I’m using that as a technical term. They   can’t communicate with the rest of the grid; they 
only respond based on what they can measure at the   point of connection. The grid operator doesn’t 
get good data on how much power the distributed   sources are putting into the grid, and they have 
little control over those inverters. They can’t   tell them to reduce power if there’s too much 
on the grid already or increase power to provide   support. And inverters, especially consumer-grade 
equipment, can behave in unexpected and unintended   ways during faults and disturbances, 
magnifying small problems into larger ones. Those inverters can also make the grid more 
vulnerable to cyberattacks since their security   depends on individual owners. It’s not hard to 
imagine how someone nefarious could take advantage   of a large number of distributed sources 
to sabotage parts of the grid. And finally,   distributed resources affect the revenue that 
flows into the utility, and this can get pretty   contentious. The rates a customer pays for 
electricity cover a lot of different costs,   many of which don’t really evaporate on a 
kilowatt-per-kilowatt basis if you remove   that demand from the grid. Fixed costs like 
maintenance of infrastructure still come due,   even if that infrastructure is being used at a 
lower capacity on sunny days. With net metering,   it gets even more complicated to figure out 
how much that power injected into the grid is   really saving, not to mention how those savings 
should be distributed across the customer base. And, these challenges are only becoming more 
immediate. Hawaii’s Clean Energy Initiative,   launched in 2008, set a goal of meeting 
70 percent of its energy needs through   renewables and increased efficiencies by 2030. 
In 2014, they doubled down on the commitment,   setting a goal of completely eliminating fossil 
fuel use by 2045. That would take them from one   of the most fossil-fuel-dependent states in 
the US to the most energy-independent. And,   they’ve taken some big steps toward that goal. 
Renewable generation has gone from less than   10% to about 25% of the total already, and a 
host of policies have been changed to create   more opportunities for renewables on the 
grid. Solar water heaters are now required   for most new homes. Rebates are available for 
solar installations. The only coal-fired plant   in the state was controversially shut down 
in 2022. And, there is a big list of solar,   battery storage, and biofuel turbine projects 
expected to come online in the near future. For better or worse, Hawaii has become a 
full-scale test bed for renewables and the   challenges involved as they become a larger and 
larger part of the grid. Many consider natural gas   to be a bridge fuel to renewables, a firm resource 
that is generally cheaper, cleaner, and often more   stable in price than other fossil fuels. But 
Hawaii is hoping to leapfrog the bridge. For   the climate and their own energy security, they’ve 
gone all in on renewables, making them a leader in   the world, but also forcing them to work out some 
of the bugs that inevitably arise when there’s no   one ahead of you to work them out first. There 
are some really cool innovations on the horizon   as Hawaii grows closer to its goal. Smart grid 
technologies will add sensors and communications   tools to automate fault detection, recovery, 
and restoration, and enable power to flow more   efficiently across distributed resources. Hawaiian 
Electric is also testing out time-of-use rates to   encourage customers to shift their power use to 
off-peak hours, hopefully smoothing out demands   and reducing the need for expensive generators 
that only get used for a few hours per day. That idea really underscores the significant 
challenge Hawaii faces in keeping its grids   operating. Improvements and capacity upgrades 
help everyone, but they cost everyone too,   and they cost more for every additional 
increment of uptime. There’s no reliability menu,   and kilowatt-hours don’t come a la carte. 
If you’re a self-sufficient minimalist or   frequent nomad who isn’t bothered by the idea 
of intermittent power, you can’t pay a cheaper   rate for less dependable service. And if you use 
a powered medical device or work a high-powered,   always-connected job at home, you can’t pay 
extra for more reliability. In many ways,   Hawaiians are all in it together.  Drawing that 
line between what’s worth the investment and   what’s just gilding the electric lily is tough 
already with such a diverse array of needs   and opinions. Doing it on such a small scale, 
multiplied by several islands, and with such a   quickly growing portfolio of renewable energy 
sources only magnifies the challenge. But it   also creates opportunities for some really cool 
engineering to pave the way for a more resilient,   secure, and flexible energy future, not just for 
Hawaii, but hopefully all the rest of us too. If there’s one thing I learned from researching 
and talking to people for this video, it’s that   Hawaiians care a lot about how their state 
is portrayed in the media. There’s a lot of   complexity in the history and culture, and it’s 
easy to miss out on important context if you’re   not from there, and I’m not. And that happens 
a lot for me, actually, even for topics you   think would be strictly about the science 
and engineering. Here’s just one example: The private Odysseus lander (kind of) 
successfully landed on the moon a few   weeks ago. There’s not a lot of politics in 
a story like this, but if you look closely,   you can see it through slightly different lenses. 
More than 289 news outlets covered it. Of these   289 news outlets, 35% lean left and 20% lean 
right. And, while the headlines themselves are   relatively similar across the political spectrum, 
the articles themselves are a little different.   Right-leaning news outlets tended to focus 
on the private sector aspect of the mission,   while left-leaning outlets ascribed more of the 
achievement toward the partnership with NASA. With today’s sponsor, Ground News, it’s 
easy to pick out these little details   and rise above the biases that are inherent 
in lots of media sources. For every story,   you get a quick visual breakdown of the political 
biases, factuality ratings, and ownership of the   sources. Everything’s in one place, so it’s easy 
to compare multiple articles and make sure you   have a well-rounded understanding of the story. 
For the Odysseus story, 49% of the reporting   outlets are owned by Media Conglomerates. One of 
my favorite features is the Blindspot Feed, which   shows you stories that are mostly reported by 
one side of the political spectrum or the other. I don’t think we’ll ever get 
away from biases in reporting,   but reading the same story from different 
angles gives me context and insights that   would be harder to come by just using my 
typical sources. Ground News makes me feel   more confident that I’m not living in a bubble 
controlled by algorithms that only try to show   me what I want to see. And they’re offering a 
huge discount right now if you use my link in   the description. Subscribe to get a more 
transparent media landscape using my link   ground dot news slash practicalengineering 
for 30% off the Vantage subscription. That   link is in the description. Thank you for 
watching, and let me know what you think!