- Welcome back to
Mystery Tech, my friends! It's already here, wow. That's a little sus. All right. (case squeaks)
(Austin laughing) This seems to be a foam case
with some very realistic buns. Oh, wait a minute, oh wait,
this is not what I thought. Is this a Z Flip case? Whoa, whoa, whoa. So if you're familiar with
the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip, the third best invention
after fire and electricity. - [Ken] The two greatest inventions also burned down his house. (crew laughing) - Hey, guys. So my house kind of burned down. Water was the fourth good invention, that probably was helpful. - [Matt] Little late on that one. - Typically using the Z Flip, I don't actually use a case for it because the screen on
the inside is protected while it's in my pocket. Now, I do slightly question who made this because I don't think
this is a factory thing. Mostly because the camera seems
to be covered by this bun, which is the most realistic,
like fake food I've ever. - [Ken] I love how there's lettuce that you can barely see. (Austin gagging) - Great, he's finally
evolved from sniffing it to tasting it. - Ah, so go ahead and put on my case. - [Ken] So, he tried to
put it on the inside. - Okay. - [Ken] He's never
assembled a burger before. (Matt laughing) - So, I don't know how it
looks on camera, but in person, it looks terrific and it
feels like an actual bun. It's probably just like foam that's been, like, expertly painted. But you've got yourself the
tomato, which is rubbery, and you got a little
bit of lettuce on there. This is what you see through the camera. Maybe not the most practical
thing in the world. Can you please tell me something
about where this came from and is this an actual product
or did someone make this? Like, is this a real thing? - So, I saw this on TikTok,
I bought it on eBay. - How much was it? - 25 bucks. - I can say with absolutely
no hesitation whatsoever, I love this. This is up there in
the pantheon of greats, right beside Robo T Raptor. (crew laughing) Slightly above Squish Monkey McGee. (monkey squeaks)
Oops. This makes me happy, and Matt this is the best Mystery
Tech item I've seen in two and a half years. This my friends, is a set
of Adidas sport headphones powered by light, no
charging cable included. What? So, definitely like wrapped like shoes. It's like covered in fabric. And it's got this like sort
of rubbery sort of finish and there's a USB-C port on the bottom. Now it does say that, as part of their sustainability efforts, you don't need a USB-C cable, but apparently if you scan the QR code, they'll give you a cable
anyway, so it's power foil. So, I'm assuming that this
is some kind of solary-panel. It's very sort of smooth
so I guess if you're out jamming to your Adidas music, wow, actually, that's like, a really surprising amount of isolation. There's a little button on the right side and there's a button on the left side, so I'm see if I can get these to pair. Oh, interesting. It actually shows up as a
Google fast pair device. - [Ken] Hey, look at that. - So, paired. Okay, I can see. So, this little LED here is gonna tell me how much they're charging. Theoretically they're getting
a tiny, tiny, tiny amount of light and energy
from our studio lights. They're not amazing
sounding, I'll say that. There's a lack of clarity here. That's the thing that just really gets me. It very much, it's not
like a U-shaped scoop, it's just bass, and everything's
just kind of down here. - Hey, so toss 'em over here, give 'em to the peanut gallery. - They're a little uncomfortable. Just 'cause it's like a lot of fabric. It's like a little bit
squished to your ears, but that's not bad. I, they actually think that for running around and
working out and stuff, that's actually, it's a pretty good fit. - Austin, you're not gonna
heaven with this music, I'm telling you that. - [Austin] Okay, mom. I mean, I was listening to the
city pop few minutes ago, so. - He needs Jesus. (crew laughing) Yeah, these are not. - Yeah, they're not great, no. - So the question, and I'm
really afraid to ask this, how much are the RPT 02
Sol Adidas headphones. - [Matt] How much do you think? - I think, $80 is a little too much, but that would be the max
I would ever pay for these. And even then you can get
better headphones for that, but 80 bucks - [Matt] We paid $230 for them. - (censored) no. - Did you learn
- That's literally all I have to say.
- Did you learn that language from your Spotify playlist? - I did, but not at the
expense of being just very mid-sounding headphones
with no additional features whatsoever, like- - [Ken] It's a shame they're mid because you can't hear them. - No, no, they're bass. I can't hear anything else besides that. This video is sponsored by Stamps.com. Like a lot of us, I rely more
and more on AI tools lately, and anything that
automates all the boring, and time consuming stuff outta my life. That is why I love
partnering with Stamps.com. It's like having a post
office in your home or office. For over 25 years, they've
helped over 1 million businesses, big and small, just like yours. With partners like the US
Postal Service and UPS, you can have flexibility you need, and importantly, discounts of
up to 84% off standard rates. Stamps.com even automatically tells you the cheapest and fastest shipping options, so you never need to worry about if you've got the best deal or not. Stamps.com is there for you day or night. All you need is a computer and printer. It's easy to schedule a
pickup, meaning no traffic, no lines, and more time
growing your business. And if you sell online, Stamps.com seamlessly connects
with every major marketplace. Avoid the hassle and get
started with Stamps.com today. Sign up at Stamps.com/AustinEvans for a special offer that
includes a four week trial plus free postage and
a free digital scale. No long-term commitments or contracts. Just go to Stamps.com/AustinEvans and a huge thank you to Stamps.com for sponsoring this
episode of Mystery Tech. (box thumps)
- Wow! - Did you hear the sound
that this little box made? What is this? (box thumps)
(crew laughing) I don't think I have ever, in all the years we've
been shooting Mystery Tech, seen Matt and Ken this happy. (Matt and Ken laughing) - We, like you said we, we've shot so many
episodes, so many items, it's rare for us to get
something that makes us giddy. - Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Wait, wait, wait, wait. This, this wrapping is way
bigger than the actual item. What is this?
- Keep going. - Three inch Tungsten cube? (Matt and Ken laughing) So if you're not up to date on your periodic table of elements, this (censored) is pretty
much on the bottom. Well actually, technically it's not all the way on the bottom, it's number 74 but it's pretty low. It this where the joker comes in. (Joker laughing) There you go. That's three inches of solid tungsten. Dude, I feel like I've damn Mjolnir here. (lightning cracks)
Like, ugh. I'm gonna guess this is like 20 pounds. So this is Tungsten light. - So, the weight of it, you're not far off with 20 pounds. - How much is it? - 17.6. - It is mind blowing at how heavy something this small can truly be. How much is a cube of tungsten? - Before I give you that.
- Yeah? - I wanna tell you that we used restraint. - Did you now? - Yeah.
- Okay. - So, a one inch cube
is a hundred dollars. - Oh, bruh. - This one here is $1,800. - Okay, here's the real test. Like all good Mystery Tech items, will it break the shelf? - Oh my God no. - I'll let go in 3, 2,
- Lower it lower it! - 1. - Yay!
- Okay. - [Ken] It fits in an
Amazon locker, for return. - We're not returning it. I've got my DNA all over it. - [Matt] He's not returning the cube. - So, please subscribe to the channel and ringling the dingling button because quite literally we're
gonna go out of business if you don't watch our videos from now on. Subscribe, please. Please. Look at that, look at that. - Ooh.
- Expert, catlike reflexes. The ROG Raikiri Pro. So, I have actually
already used this device. So, at CES, we went to the Asus booth and they showed us a
wide variety of things, including a prototype of the Raikiri Pro. The Raikiri Pro. So, we've got ourselves,
our little OLED here. So, you have the ability
to load up profiles, throw ROG logos, whatever you
want on the little display. And it does like some current ROG devices, it's got a little bit of clear plastic so you can't fully see
all the way through, but it's got like some texture underneath. So, here I'm gonna try
all the buttons here. So, face buttons?
(buttons clicking) Good, nothing spectacular. They just feel like regular
nice buttons, triggers. And the triggers do have the
stoppable, the bump stops, so you can have them the
sort of like hair triggers or you can open them up
for the full, full beans. Feels very similar to a
standard Xbox controller. I would say almost a little too similar in that, when my eyes are closed, I don't think I can tell the difference, I'll be honest. In fact, do you wanna try? - Give me that one. - Okay. - So I'm gonna not hold the the rear 'cause I know that I'll feel the paddles. Okay, so, okay, got it. That feels okay, like an
Xbox controller, okay. - Okay, here's the next one. - Okay, this one feels clicker,
but a little more hollow. I think this is the Raikiri 'cause that one felt a little like, yeah, okay, this is the Raikiri. This is the The Xbox. What? Wait, I got 'em backwards. (Matt and Ken laughing) - What? What? - You know I Indiana
Jones'd it like four times. - Oh my God. How many controllers were there? How many controllers were there? - Either the Raikiri feels very similar to regular Xbox controller,
or I'm a big old dumb dumb. Ooh, oh, I will say though, that RGB actually is really nice. Hmm, all right, let's actually hook it up. So we're gonna pull, hook
it up to an Xbox Series S but I think we may actually
have to plug it in, which is a strange choice. Yeah, I mean it does say wired with Xbox. So, this does feel like a little bit of a hybrid between a
proper pro controller like the elite controller
and the standard Xbox. Hey, hey (censored) off! - Whoa, whoa.
- Come on dude, that's not nice. - How much do you think this is? - I mean, the competitor I think to this has gotta be the Core Elite Series 2. So I believe it's $120 or $130? - Yeah.
- Okay. So then I think this
has gotta be 120 bucks. - [Matt] Welp, it's not. - Okay, how much is it? - [Matt] It is $170. - [Ken] Whoo, no. - No. The standard version, if
it really is as similar as I feel like I remember
it when I tried CES, 70 bucks cheaper and it just
really loses the wireless, and a couple of the back paddles. That's probably a little
bit of a better sell. But honestly it's tough to argue with that Elite Series Core. Like if you don't care about
the full customization, that's a lot of controller for the money. Okay, I almost caught this. Oh, this is the item I bought. So supposedly this is a high
quality SSD for only $40. Oh, there's a problem with this disc. Oh wow, wait, it actually
shows up as two terabytes. - Oh heyo. - We gotta find out what's inside this. I mean, clearly this is a scam. Oh, I got it, I got it, I got it. All right, let's see what's inside. (Austin laughing maniacally) This is what's actually inside. This is just a USB-C to A adapter. So it's a double-sided USB-A to USB-A. That's it, that's literally
all that's inside this thing. Now we're gonna plug this
directly into the laptop and see what happens. Wait, I don't need to plug it in. I can literally see through it. - Oh.
(crew laughing) - [Matt] How is it figuring out that something's plugged into it at all? - There's a little tiny piece of plastic on the bottom of the USB port. I see 4 little prongs that
do look like they're USB, but PSA, if you're ever buying a high quality USB flash
drive off of Amazon.com, make sure it's from a reputable brand, not Portable SSD Mobile Storage. One item captured. Two items, easily caught. This is the Mountain
Nunatak Gaming Mouse Pad. And I'm assuming a corresponding mouse, which is the Makalu
Modular RGB Gaming Mouse. So here's the thing with
Mountain, y'all need to chill. RGB is one thing, gaming is another, modularity, cool, but y'all do too much. I wanna cut-
- Tell you're not a real gamer without telling me
you're not a real gamer. - Look, there's this thing
called choice paralysis, Matt. Wow, that's a lot of things. We have the mouse itself, so this looks like a fairly standard mouse but I'm assuming that I'm gonna, about to tear this thing apart
and completely customize it. Oh, okay, so you've got, like, a standard sort of like thumb rest, as well as one that's a
little bit more dimpled. - [Ken] Oh, I see magnets. - So, how do I do this? - [Ken] So, it looks
like it's just weight. It's weights and grips. - Weights and grips. The titles of my new hit single, (beatboxing) weights and
grips, weights and grips. So I have changed not only the left side, which is the thumb grip, but also my pinky rest
and it's quite wide. So, this is the maximum mouse, with the heaviest weight on the bottom. Let's try this with the
Nunatak Gaming Mouse Pad. Okay, this is too heavy, I'm
gonna take the weight out, immediately, I think that is too heavy. Yeah, that's better. Oh my God, it's heavy. What the hell is in here? (case thumps) Oh my God, what have
you, what have you done? - I made an all metal keyboard. - What? - So this-
- So heavy! - [Ken] So it is a 5 by
40 LED array over there, that has programmable animations and stuff to make it look cool. - So you got the cyber board?
- Yes, which is its own thing. - Which is its own thing. Then you bought the key caps, which are aluminum I'm guessing. - Yes, they are aluminum.
- How about the switches? - [Ken] No, I also had to buy those. - Okay. - So the whole thing had to be assembled. It's hot swap, so I didn't
have to do a crazy amount but there's actually a full Denki video on this if you want to see how I built it. - Of course there's a whole Denki video. And is it wireless charging? - [Ken] Yes. - That actually looks really nice. Can we get some dramatic lighting please? I'm about to experience aural
bliss through my fingertips to determine the veracity
of Ken's metallic claims. Is everyone ready? First full type test, let's go. Oh good Lord. - You have to commit.
- It feels is nice but it is so heavy you can't type fast. 88 words per minute. Okay, so typing on this
keyboard is a unique experience because it is, by far, the heaviest key press
I've ever experienced. Not only the fact that these
key caps clearly weigh a ton but whatever the hell switches
you have in this thing, it's like you're cocking a device. Wow, okay, let's start with the mouse. Let's, let's, let's get
this one done first. How much is this mountain mouse? - [Ken] $90. - Okay, I will say this
is probably not for me, mostly because I generally prefer a very lightweight mouse. That being said, the modularity is nice, but it doesn't give you any
extra buttons or anything. So it's not particularly
like a productivity mouse, even though when you have
the full thing built out, it does kind of look like a,
like an MX Master or something. Okay, let me just prepare myself here. The fact this lives on the
blockchain, has a lot of LEDs, and is made of metal
all leads me to believe this is expensive. How about this? Ken, I'm gonna throw you some numbers. - Okay.
- You tell me if I'm too high or too low? - Okay.
- All right. $400 - As a whole? - The whole thing. - [Ken] 400 bucks? - Yeah.
- That's cute. - A thousand dollars. No, no, you did not spend
over a thousand dollars on a keyboard. What are you talking about? - [Ken] It's cheaper than the cube. I'll tell you that. - 1100. - [Ken] Before shipping and taxes. - My (censored) God, I'm gonna... Please break that down. How the (censored) did you
spend $1,100 on a keyboard? - So the CYBERBOARD on its own. - Yep. - Is $620, just for the case.
(Austin groaning) And, like, the battery and all that. So the CYBERBOARD right
now, about 900 bucks. - So what you're saying is you've actually made a genius play to take
two years to build a keyboard, put it on Mystery Tech
as a hilarious segment, make a Denki video all about it. - Yeah.
- And then we sell it for profit and it was
all worth it in the end. - Collectively, all the
money we would've made on the video would've paid
for the keyboard already. - Okay. - And we got a free keyboard out of it. - Wait, that's not how that
works, that's not profit. - Yeah.
- No profit's only when you sell the thing for more than you bought it for. That's what profit is, Ken. - Well, only if I was
intending on flipping it. - Oh, so this is your new keyboard? - Our new keyboard.