I fell in love with mathematics at school when my teacher explained to me that what this subject is all about is actually something he liked to call 'The Art of the Shortcut.' So what I wanted to do was to give you this perspective that my teacher gave me about why mathematics is so amazing; because it's basically the best collection of shortcuts that we've gathered over our kind of two thousand, three thousand, years of exploring mathematics. I think another reason I fell in love with maths is because I loved solving puzzles, the idea of having a puzzle - and there's clearly a very stupid way to do puzzles quite often - but the real joy is finding that clever way of thinking about the problem, what I call the shortcut, and then the whole thing just falls apart and you go oh that's- oh I understand this now. So here's the little puzzle and and maybe we'll solve this at the the end of the video so you're a grocer and you've got one of those scales, balance scales, so you can put things on either side. And you want to be able to weigh things from 1 kilogram up to 40 kilograms, just whole number units. What is the smallest number of weights you can get away with? So you know what's the shortcut for the grocer in not having to buy, you know, weights from 1 to 40. That's- obviously you could do 40; but what is the smallest number you can get away with? (Brady: So we have to be
able to cover every) (integer presumably not- not-) (not 0.7?)
- No I don't want 0.7. So I just- you want from 1, 2, 3 all the way up to 40. And so remember you can put weights on either side; you're going to be using that fact to sort of cut down the number you need. Actually the problem that caught my imagination when I was at school, and it's a problem- you've probably done a Numberphile on it, that moment when Gauss at school was asked to add the numbers up from 1 to a 100. And the story goes is the teacher who challenged the class with this problem was hoping to get a little bit of rest because he knew this would take a long time; 1 plus 2 plus 3. And sure enough all the other students started doing their arithmetic. But almost before the teacher could finish with the challenge Gauss had put down his blackboard with the answer on. You know, how did he manage to find a shortcut to doing this huge amount of work of adding up numbers? And you know the lovely shortcut is he spotted a pattern, which is if you add the numbers 1 plus 100, 2 plus 99, 3 plus 98 - they're all 101 and you've got 50 of these pairs and so you've just got 50 lots of 101, 5050. And I think this beautifully illustrated for me the power of mathematical thought as a shortcut. First of all you you've just cut out just having to do a huge slog of hard work, 1 up to 100, but the beauty of this shortcut again is that it it works however big the number. If the teacher had said count up to a million the same trick works. And I think for me that was just so exciting. I think it sort of appealed to me as a lazy teenager, that I didn't want to do a lot of hard work, the idea of learning 
this kind of skill set of shortcuts. And that's actually what I've been doing over the last few months is sort of gathering in a book the idea of different shortcuts that we have in mathematics. And I think one of them is pattern searching which is the one that Gauss was using. But there's a kind of funny paradox here, because although I think I actually was drawn to shortcuts because I was a bit lazy at school and I liked the idea that if I thought cleverly I could get through to the answer really quickly and then I could go and play football; actually in my professional life as a mathematician finding shortcuts, finding those shortcuts, can take a very long time. So you're kind of stuck in front of this wall, you just don't know what to do. But that's actually the joy and it taps into that idea of a puzzle, the best puzzles are the one that you wrestle with for ages and then you get it. So I think the shortcuts that we've come up with throughout the history of mathematics, one has to remember that mathematicians have spent a long time coming up with these shortcuts that now we teach at school and university - we've made the tunnel through the mountain and that's what I hope, you know, we we communicate. But I think it's a sort of new perspective, I don't think people think of mathematics as kind of like the art of the shortcut. (I imagine a lot of the things I learned) (at high school when I was learning) (mathematics) (that are considered, you know, the tools) (of mathematics are in fact shortcuts.) (They've just become so standardised that) (we just think that's
what mathematics is.) Yes I mean- so I think, you know, algebra is a shortcut to not having to do individual calculations on each numbers, it's spotting the underlying pattern. But I think some of my favourite shortcuts, ones we've made Numberphiles about, but one of my favourites is Euler's kind of solution to why the bridges of Königsberg can't be crossed. So you know, we're all brought up on this story as a kind of mathematical fairy tale. The seven bridges crossing the river Preger; the residents in Königsberg, Sunday afternoon, they try and cross it. And again here's the hard work; how would you show that you can't cross these? Well you've got to do all the possibilities, that's going to take forever. Well not forever but a long time. The beauty of Euler's shortcut is once he's drawn the network and understood that each node in this network of bridges, there can be either zero or two places with an odd number of bridges coming out. If there are two that's the beginning and the end of the journey, but everywhere else you're going in and out on different bridges so you've got an even number. That's inspired because, you know, now I can draw an incredibly complicated network but using this shortcut all I need to do is to count the number of vertices with odd number bridges coming out of it
and I know whether it is navigable or not. And it's an issue; I mean Brady you you live near Bristol so you got a lot of bridges around Bristol and in fact somebody's analysed, I think it's in the region like 40-50 bridges. Now that's quite a complicated network but he was able to spot, using this Euler shortcut, okay this is possible. And so he actually did it, I think it took over a day to
travel all of these bridges but he knew at the outset that he'd be he'd be able to do it. There's a nice little coda to this story, because I actually went to Königsberg, it's now called Kaliningrad, it's a small little enclave - or exclave I think it's- because it's separate from Russia surrounded by other countries. But I actually discovered there are still seven bridges but they're arranged in a completely different configuration. There's a railway bridge you can cross; there's a dual carriageway - if you draw the diagram now there are two places where an odd number of bridges come in and out. So when I went to Kaliningrad I actually walked the seven bridges of Kaliningrad, although the shortcut told me I'd never be able to do the ones at Königsberg. 
- (Are there lots of tourists) (there doing that? Is that a thing you) (do there or is that- was it just two or) (three mathematicians a month?) I think that I was probably the only one on that day scampering around Kaliningrad, which is 
quite a grim city actually; but I loved it, it was like visiting mathematical Disneyland. (Professor when you- when a big new proof) (comes out - Fermat's last theorem 
or some of the big ones - ) (is a common thread through those things) (that that the genius discovered a) (shortcut? Or sometimes
is the way to a proof) (there was no shortcut; you had to- you) (know really) (push through?) 
- This is a really interesting question because it came up in my analysis of this. Sort of sometimes actually you need to take a detour to sort of find your way through; and sometimes that detour will be as exciting as the shortcut. And I don't think Fermat's last theorem- had we found something that could fit in the margin, of course it wouldn't have had the same kind of value to us that it has today because it was such a grand challenge. But on the other hand if you look at that journey, a long journey that was 
made over 350 years, absolutely there are moments of shortcuts where suddenly you realise, oh, I found a passage from this equation of Fermat's through to a
completely different land that, you know, the modular forms. Now I have to understand something about elliptic curves and modular forms. That was the ultimate shortcut because it was almost like finding a tunnel to a completely different area. And I think in in my research that's often what I'm looking for is those sneaky tunnels which take me from a problem coached in one sort of language and then turning it into something else where actually there's the tools to answer the problem. (Is there a danger to shortcuts? 
If you- do) (they become a crutch? And if you always) (take the shortcut) (could you miss that thing that no one) (had seen before?)
- Well for me I think the danger of shortcuts is when does it become cutting corners? And I think this is a real- this is a real challenge because very often in mathematics what we try and do is throw away information which isn't important. You know, it wasn't important the geometry of Königsberg; what was important was the the way it was connected together. And you know one of the powerful shortcuts we come out with, not just in mathematics but also across the sciences, is the power of a diagram. If you think about physicists and chemists their their blackboards are covered in all these strange little letters with lines coming out of them; that's a molecule but it's a diagram of a molecule. The DNA spiral; you couldn't put all the detail of the DNA but they they they crystallised what was important about this double helix. So I think that is a really powerful one and again in a way networks are tapping into topology is about connectivity, London underground map is not a physical map, you've thrown away things. The challenge is 
making sure you don't throw away too much. And that's I think interesting when it comes to our incredibly data rich world; how do we navigate through this incredible jungle of numbers? And again mathematics has come up with some extraordinary shortcuts to to find our way through understanding what is happening in those numbers. But again you need to be careful; there's a chance that you might have missed some signal inside of there. There was this advert when I was a kid about cat food, Whiskas cat food, and it it kind of said very grandly 8 out of 10 cats prefer Whiskas. And- and we had a cat and I don't remember anybody ever coming around and asking our cat 'oh so which cat food you eat sir?' And I was always perplexed by this. So how many cats did they actually ask? There are about seven million cats in the UK; how many have you got to ask in order to be able to make such a claim? So that again is about how much can I throw away to really be justified in making that claim? And again 
mathematics shows you that provided your- you know 5% error either way we'll we'll we'll take that, but that still isn't good enough because well does that mean I've got to ask 95% of that 7 million? No but we also do this thing about- I don't mind providing that 19 out of 20 times I will be getting within 5%. If you set that as your bar of your shortcut you can get away with about 250 cats! That's extraordinary, I mean that's the power of a shortcut in when you're trying to navigate data. Suddenly I only have to talk to 250 cats and I can know pretty accurately, you know, 19 out of 20 times that will be within 5% of what the actual value is. (It's pretty amazing if you can talk to) (even one cat to be honest but-) I suppose you're right!
- (When one hears the word) (shortcut, one of the 
things that comes to) (your head is being a bit) (sloppy or finding a quick and dirty way) (of doing things;) (but we also know that mathematics is all) (about this sort of- this rigour) (and this perfection, 
this unbreakability.) (Presumably when you use the word) (shortcut) (you're not using it 
the way I would, like) (you know, hanging a picture a bit) (wonky on a nail on a wall.)
- Exactly I think this is a really important point to stress, that I'm after something which still gets me absolutely robustly to a solution. I don't want something that's going to fall to par- pieces a little bit later. So so this is a distinction between shortcuts and cutting corners. But you know there are times when it is about, what is unnecessary work that I don't need to do which is not really contributing to understanding, it's just creating a sort of fog around here and I can take that away. So a part of it is about you know what can I throw away and still I'm going to get to to the solution? One of the rather extraordinary things is that, you know, mathematics is very good about talking about itself. I mean, I've done a Numberphile about Gödel's incompleteness theorem, the power of mathematical equations to talk about itself. Mathematics is also able to analyse itself and tell us when there are no shortcuts. So sometimes it's important to know, okay, I can't get away without doing a huge amount of work in this particular case. And so people have probably heard of the Travelling Salesman problem. This is a challenge about trying to visit every city in a network in the shortest distance possible; and we now think that there is no clever algorithm to being able to solve this problem and that's one of the millennial problems. One of our greatest challenges is to prove there are no shortcuts. But that's- mathematics is very good at that in showing why you cannot get away with doing something quickly. Unlike Euler's very clever trick for Königsberg you don't have to navigate the whole of the network to know something's possible or impossible; we think that in order to find the shortest route the mathematics will ultimately tell us there is no shortcut. So this is one called uh P versus NP. So P actually for polynomial time, those are the kind of shortcut algorithms, those are the ones that when you run them it doesn't matter how big they get it still finds you the solution quickly. So the other problems are ones where actually the algorithms that we have explode as the problem gets bigger. But they have this quality that if you do find the solution it's almost like a needle in a haystack, you can't find it but soon as you put your finger on it wow you feel it. So so you can check these things very quickly. Traveling salesman problem is the classic one but it's extraordinary how many other problems have this quality. And again here's a shortcut; amazing thing that we've discovered is that all of these NP problems, if you find a
shortcut for one of them, that shortcut works for all of them. That's extraordinary so, you know, one shortcut solves them all, sort of kind of Tolkienesque. So that's also, you know, the power of showing- you know, once you solve one problem you've solved loads of problems is something mathematics loves. (Is this unique to mathematics? Like does) (does it work for chemistry and) (physics and biology or is that- is it) (more of a math-y thing?) I was quite intrigued to see whether other professions actually had their own shortcuts and and what sort of things- you know, my life feels like I'm trying always trying to find the shortcut. What what can you not get away with shortcutting? So so actually as part of this project I've talked to a lot of people in other professions; for example an international cellist. Can you get away from- I mean I play the the cello here, you know, I was quite intrigued can I shortcut being able to become a really great cellist playing those Bach suites? So I talked to Natalie Clein, an international cellist, 
and she really explained actually well you're having to physically change your body. You know, as you practice you sort of- you're trying to get that muscle memory so you almost don't have to think. That is ultimately a shortcut but that requires a lot of time practicing. So I think anything that requires physically changing your body like becoming an international cellist or an athlete; it's very difficult to to shortcut that sort of physical 
change so that was interesting. But there were other cases; for example I talked to Brent Hoberman who was the creator of lastminute.com and he's done wonderful startups so I was kind of intrigued, you know, what's your secret? Do you have a shortcut to startups? And he said actually it's flying a little bit close to the to the law; you know, you want to break things a little bit to- to make progress. And actually that resonated with me with another sort of shortcut, which is the invention 
of imaginary numbers. We kind of broke a rule there, which- you know, squar- square numbers, they're positive. But what an amazing shortcut that provided and, you know, there's a very famous quote by the French mathematician about, you know, the shortest path between two real things is to go through the complex domain. So this is almost like a wormhole, very often if you can get complex numbers in there - radar for example, you could do it just with real numbers but it's a huge mess. As soon as you put it into complex numbers the thing becomes very straightforward. In fact I went to visit air traffic control and and the people sitting there were saying, you know, we wouldn't be able to land these planes in time if we hadn't used the shortcut of breaking that rule that every number is positive. So that was interesting, there are kind of resonances with other professions that are similar to to shortcuts that I've learned as a professional mathematician.
- (I like) (that, can't land planes without) (complex numbers.) I think we should solve the problem. (Yes, go on then. There's a 
shortcut to solve this is there?) There is a shortcut. Because if you try and solve this problem, it's quite nice because you can try out various different numbers, you might try powers of 2, you might try just experimenting see what it's doing. I mean it's interesting, I wonder how many weights you would have got down to with that kind of experimental approach. Because it's quite surprising what you can do is to get away with the following weights: 1, 3, 9 and 27. Four weights. I think a lot of people will get down to five weights but to actually see that you can go with with four weights is quite extraordinary. And why? Well you've probably noticed those are powers of 3, so some of you might have tried binary powers of 2, but you've got a an extra thing you can take advantage of here which is these are balance scales so you can put nothing on one side, one weight on one side, or kind of the negative of that weight on the other side. So in a way you're building a number, we want to get the numbers from 1 to 40, using either 0, 1, or -1. 
So we're actually working with ternary numbers and so powers of three are going to be able to- to weigh every number from 1 to 40. if you enjoyed this video there's a fair chance you'll enjoy Marcus' new book, 'Thinking Better, 
the Art of the Shortcut'. It's already getting some good reviews and I'm going to put a link to it in the video description so you can get your hands on a copy. I'll also put a link to Marcus' recent appearance on the Numberphile podcast. ...so he just took 101, times it by 50, and he got 5050. So this story was first written about in an obituary by one of Carl Gauss's friends.