It is undoubtedly unintuitive that water 
flows in the soil and rock below our feet.   A 1904 Texas Supreme Court case famously noted 
that the movement of groundwater was so “secret,   occult and concealed” that it couldn’t be 
regulated by law. Even now, the rules that   govern groundwater in many places are still well 
behind our collective knowledge of hydrogeology.   So it’s no surprise that misconceptions 
abound around water below the ground. And yet,   roughly half of all drinking water 
and irrigation water used for crops   comes from underneath the surface of the 
earth. You can’t really look at an aquifer,   but you can look at a model of one I built in my 
garage. And at the end of the video, I’ll test   out one of the latest technologies in aquifer 
architecture to see if it works. I’m Grady and   this is Practical Engineering. In today’s episode, 
we’re talking about groundwater and wells. This video is sponsored by Curiosity 
Stream and Nebula. More on them later. Not all water that falls as precipitation runs off 
into lakes and rivers. Some of it seeps down into   the ground through the spaces between soil and 
rock particles. Over time, this infiltrating water   can accumulate into vast underground reservoirs. A 
common misconception about groundwater is that it   builds up in subterranean caverns or rivers. 
Although they do exist in some locations,   caves are relatively rare. Nearly all groundwater 
exists within geologic formations called aquifers   that consist of sand, gravel, or rock 
saturated with water just like a sponge.   It just so happens you’re watching the number 
one channel on the internet about dirt,   and there are a lot of interesting things 
I can show you about how aquifers behave. I built this acrylic tank in my garage to 
illustrate some of the more intriguing aspects   of groundwater engineering. I can fill it up with 
sand and add blue dye to create two-dimensional   scenarios of various groundwater conditions. It 
also has ports in the back that I can open or   close to drain various sections of the model. 
And, on both sides, there’s a separation that   simulates a boundary condition on the aquifer. 
Water can flow through these dividers along their   height. Most of the shots you’ll see of this have 
been sped up because, compared to surface water,   groundwater flows quite slowly. Depending on 
the size of soil or rock particles, it can   take a very long time for water to make its way 
through the sinuous paths between the sediments.   The property used to characterize this speed 
is called hydraulic conductivity, and you can   look up average values for different types of soil 
online, if you’re curious to learn more. In fact,   different geologic layers affect the presence 
and movement of groundwater more than any other   factor, which is why there is so much variability 
in groundwater resources across the world. Like all fluids, groundwater flows from areas 
of high pressure toward areas of low pressure.   To demonstrate this, I can set the left boundary 
level a little higher than the one on the right.   This creates a pressure differential across the 
model so water flows from left to right through   the sand. I added dye tablets at a few spots so 
you can see the flow. This is a simple example   because the pressure changes linearly through 
a consistent material, but any change in these   conditions can add a lot of complexity. In purely 
mathematical terms, you can consider this model   a 2D vector field because the groundwater can 
have a different velocity - that is direction   and speed - at any point in space. Because of 
this, there are a lot of really neat analogies   between groundwater and other physical phenomena. 
My friend Grant of the 3Blue1Brown YouTube channel   has an excellent video on vector field mathematics 
if you want to explore them further after this. We often draw a bright line between groundwater 
and surface water resources like rivers and lakes   because they behave so differently. But water 
is water. It’s all part of the hydrologic cycle,   and many surface waters have a 
nexus with groundwater resources,   meaning that changes in groundwater may impact 
the volume and quality of surface water resources   and vice versa. Let me show you an example. 
In the center of my model, I’ve made a cross   section of a river. The drain at the bottom of the 
channel simulates water flowing along the channel,   in this case leaving my model. If I turn on 
the pumps to simulate a high water table in   the aquifer, the groundwater seeps into the river 
channel and out of the model. The dye traces show   you how the groundwater moves over time. If you 
encounter a situation like this in real life,   you might see small springs, wet areas of 
the ground, and (during the winter) even   icicles along slopes where the groundwater 
is becoming surface water before your eyes. Likewise, surface water in a river can flow 
into the earth to recharge a local aquifer.   I’ve reconfigured my model so the pump is putting 
water into the river and the outer edges of the   reservoir are drained, simulating a low water 
table. Some of the water in the river flows   back out of the model through the overflow drain, 
showing that while not all the water in a river   seeps into the ground, some does. You can see 
the dye traces moving from the river channel into   the aquifer formation, transforming from surface 
water into groundwater as it does. As you can see,   surface water resources are often key locations 
where underground aquifers are recharged. This is all fun and interesting, but much 
of groundwater engineering has more to do   with how we extract this groundwater for 
use by humans. That’s the job of a well,   which, at its simplest, is just a hole into which 
groundwater can seep from the surrounding soil.   Modern wells utilize sophisticated 
engineering to provide a reliable   and long-lasting source of fresh water. The basic 
components are pretty consistent around the world. First, a vertical hole is bored into 
the subsurface using a drill rig.   Steel or plastic pipe, called casing, is 
placed into the hole to provide support so   that loose soil and rock can’t fall into the well. 
A screen is attached at the depth where water will   be withdrawn creating a path into the casing. 
Once both the casing and screen are installed,   the annular space between them and the bore 
hole must be filled. Where the well is screened,   this space is usually filled with gravel 
or coarse sand called the gravel pack.   This material acts as a filter to keep fine 
particles of the aquifer formation from   entering the well through the screen. 
The space along the unscreened casing   is usually filled with clay, which swells to 
create an impermeable seal so that shallow   groundwater (which may be lower quality) can’t 
travel along the annular space into the screen. Wells use pumps to deliver water that flows into 
the casing up to the surface. Shallow wells can   use jet pumps that draw water up using suction 
like a straw. But, this method doesn’t work for   deeper wells. When you drink through a straw, 
you create a vacuum, allowing the pressure of   the surrounding atmosphere to push your beverage 
upward. However, there’s only so much atmosphere   available to balance the weight of a fluid in 
a suction pipe. If you could create a complete   vacuum in a straw, the highest you could draw a 
drink of water is around 10 meters or 33 feet.   So, deeper wells can’t use suction to bring 
water to the surface. Instead, the pump must be   installed at the bottom of the well so that it can 
push water to the top. Some wells use submersible   pumps where the motor and pump are lowered to 
the bottom. Others use vertical turbine pumps   where only the impellers sit at the bottom driven 
by a shaft connected to a motor at the surface. All that pumping does a funny thing to an 
aquifer. I can show you what I mean in the model.   As water is withdrawn from the aquifer, it 
lowers the level near the well. The further   away from the well you go, the less influence 
it has on the level in the aquifer. Over time,   pumping creates a cone of depression around 
the well. This is important because one well’s   cone of depression can affect the capacity of 
other wells and even impact nearby springs and   rivers if connected to the aquifer. Engineers use 
equations and even computer models to estimate the   changes in groundwater level over time, based 
on pumping rate, recharge, and local geology. One fascinating aspect of deeper aquifers 
is that they can be confined. My model   isn’t quite sophisticated enough to show 
this well, but I can draw it for you.   A common situation is that an aquifer exists at 
an angle to the ground surface. It can recharge   in one location, but becomes confined by a less 
permeable geologic layer called an aquitard.   Water flowing into a confined aquifer can 
even build up pressure, so that when you tap   into the layer with a well, it flows readily 
to the surface (called an artesian well). It   can happen in oil reservoirs as well, which is 
why you occasionally see oil wells blow out. A part of the construction of wells that I didn’t 
mention yet is the top. A well creates a direct   path for water to come out of an aquifer, and 
if not designed, constructed, and maintained   properly, it can also be a direct path into the 
aquifer for contaminants on the surface. In my   model, I can simulate this by dropping some dye 
into the well to represent an unwanted chemical   spilled at the surface. Say some rainwater enters 
too, washing the contaminant through the well into   the aquifer. Now, as groundwater naturally 
moves in the subsurface, it carries a plume   of contamination along as well. You can see how 
this small spill could spread out in an aquifer,   contaminating other wells and ruining the resource 
for everyone. So, wells are designed to minimize   the chances of leaks. The uppermost section 
of the annular space is permanently sealed,   usually with cement grout. In addition, the 
casing is often extended above the surface   with a concrete pad extending in all directions 
to prevent damage or infiltration to the well. We’ve been talking so much about how to get water 
out of an aquifer, but there are some times where   we want to do the reverse. Injection wells are 
nothing new; deep belowground can be a convenient   and out-of-the-way place to dispose of unwanted 
fluids including sewage, mining waste, saltwater,   and CO2. But until recently, it hasn’t been 
a place to store a fluid with the intent of   taking it back out at a later date. 
Aquifer Storage and Recovery or ASR   is a relatively new technology that can help 
smooth out variability in water resources   where the geology makes it possible. Large-scale 
storage of water is mostly restricted to surface   water reservoirs formed by dams that are expensive 
and environmentally unfriendly to construct. With   enough pressure, water can be injected through a 
well into an aquifer. You can see on my model that   introducing water to the well causes the level 
in the aquifer to rise over time. Eventually,   this water will flow away, but (as I mentioned) 
groundwater movement is relatively slow. In the   right aquifer, you won’t lose too much water 
before the need to withdraw it comes again. Taking advantage of the underutilized 
underground seems obvious, but there are   some disadvantages too. You need a goldilocks 
formation where water won’t flow away too fast,   but is also not so tight that it takes super-high 
pressure for injection. You also need a geologic   formation that is chemically compatible with the 
injected water to avoid unwanted reactions and   bad tastes. Of course, you always have costs, 
and ASR systems can be expensive to operate   because the water has to be pumped twice - 
once on the way in and again on the way out. Finally, you can have issues with speed. In many 
places, the surplus water that needs to be stored   comes during a flood - massive inflows that arrive 
over the course of a few hours or days. A dam is   a great tool to capture floodwaters in a reservoir 
for later use. Injection wells, on the other hand,   move water into aquifers too slowly for that. 
They’re more appropriate where surplus water is   available for long durations. For example, one 
of the few operating ASR projects is right here   in my hometown of San Antonio. When water demands 
fall below the permitted withdrawals from our main   water source, the Edwards Aquifer, we take the 
surplus and pump it into a different aquifer.   If demands rise above the permitted withdrawals, 
we can make up the difference from the ASR. You can add more injection wells to increase the 
speed of recharge, but above a certain pressure,   some funny things start to happen: underground 
formations break apart and erode in a phenomenon   called hydraulic fracturing or just fracking. 
Breaking apart underground formations of rock and   soil has been a boon for the oil and gas industry. 
But, just like that Texas groundwater in 1904, the   regulation of fracking is mired in confusion and 
controversy, in no small part because it happens   below the surface of the earth, hidden from public 
view. I’ll save those details for a future video. And if you’re eager to see the next Practical 
Engineering episode as soon as possible,   you should know that my videos go live on Nebula 
before they’re released here on YouTube. Nebula’s   a completely ad-free streaming service built 
by and for your favorite independent creators   like Wendover Productions, Real Engineering, 
and me. It’s a way for us to try new ideas   and longer videos that might not work well on 
advertising-supported platforms like YouTube. And,   we’re super excited to continue our partnership 
with Curiosity Stream, a service with thousands   of documentaries and non-fiction titles on 
pretty much every subject you can imagine.   Curiosity Stream loves independent creators and 
wants to help us grow our platform, so they’re   offering free access to Nebula when you sign 
up at CuriosityStream.com/practicalengineering.   I know there are a lot of streaming services 
right now, and if you add them all up it would   be hundreds of dollars a month. That’s 
why this bundle is such an awesome deal.   You get access to two platforms (Nebula and 
Curiosity Stream) for less than $15 a year.   I love space exploration, and Curiosity Stream has 
a bunch of excellent documentaries on the topic,   including this one on building the James 
Webb Telescope that recently launched.   Or, watch Sam from Wendover Productions try 
to break the law while evading his production   team in the Nebula-exclusive series, Crime Spree. 
It’s a great way to support my channel and a whole   host of your other favorite educational creators. 
Plus it’s just a good deal. Do us both a favor and   click that link in the description. Thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think!