- I cannot believe they
sell something like this. Like what are you even
supposed to do with it? Finger condoms. Heyyyy. If you're into PC gaming, then you were almost
certainly aware of Razer. Now they actually have a longer history than you might expect. Back in 1999, they released
their first product, a game most known as the "Boomslang 1000." As you might imagine with an interesting name like that, Razer didn't exactly light
the gaming world on fire. And in 2005, the company was actually
relaunched as the Razer that we know today. In 2021, Razer's now become
one of the biggest players in the gaming industry. Mainstream companies,
such as ASUS and GIGABYTE, now have sub brands
known as ROG, or AORUS. And they're entirely designed to reach that hardcore gaming audience. Meanwhile, Razer has played
the Uno reverse card. They've decided to be the game brand determined to break into the mainstream. And they've done that in some, let's say, interesting ways. Do you remember "Project Breadwinner?" Because I sure don't. I mean, I know that they've
added April Fools to this, but like, "BREAD TO WIN," "TIS THE SEASON TO BE OP," man, the marketing team
that Razer's employing for the puns is getting paid too much. Razer gold and silver coins, is that a NFT? Wait. Did you guys know that Razer is trying to muscle
dbrand out of the market? They sell Razer skins. 60 bucks for, if I want the mercury skin. Razer also sell smart glasses. Now, this was actually
an item from Mystery Tech that I have experienced first face-on. It wasn't hands-on, it was, a face-on. I'm gonna admit, I'm usually a fairly
decent fan of Razer stuff. Like most of the stuff is pretty good. These were not good. Here we go. This is the one that I
think a lot of people know, that mask, the Razer Zephyr. Now, I'm not gonna lie. I want to try one of
these things, but like, (sighs) God, look at this, look at this, I literally, look, look at all the things. Chairs, wearables, apparels, bags, gear, masks, Sneki Snek, RESPAWN, collabs, Book, Mac. I feel like I can make an entire video just reacting to Razer stuff. Like what is this? "The Reusable Straw, #STRAWSSUCK,
but this one doesn't." Oh, this is interesting. So it's like a boom mic, but
it's on a in-ear headset? Well, that's kind of cool. How much is this? A hundred bucks. Or, you know what? That's a product I can kind of get behind. The thing is Razer sell
tons of other stuff. Like they sell tons of PC components too. Like they just announced that
they're doing power supplies. They've been selling cases for awhile. Like the size, the breadth of the different amount of
products that Razer sells, it's huge. Like, it's probably too much, right? Like I, not exactly expert
running a hardware company, but I feel it's probably very expensive to support this many SKUs,
this many actual products. This video is sponsored by Cometeer. Boy oh boy, have I been drinking a whole
lot more coffee recently. And Cometeer has been
an absolute lifesaver. Most self-made coffee requires set up, brewing and cleanup, which for me, is just way too much time to spend. Cometeer isn't like other coffee. They grind and brew
barista quality coffee, and then flash freeze it
to lock in the freshness to provide a delicious experience. Cometeer also partners with
the best specialty roasters to quickly make delicious
coffees and lattes from different regions all over the world. Just add eight ounces of
hot water with the capsule or add cold water for an iced coffee. Add milk and you've got yourself a latte. Hey, hey. For a limited time, Cometeer has a special offer for y'all. Right now, you can get $20
off your first purchase by using my link in the description. That is 10 free capsules of
coffee and always free shipping. So what are you waiting for? Check out the link in the description and a huge thank you to Cometeer for sponsoring this video. So look, Razer products might be weird, but does that necessarily make them bad? That is a complicated question. If you're thinking about a gaming laptop, sure, yeah, it's probably pretty good. But how about a Razer
chair, or Razer plushies or clothes or straws? I mean, with Razer, they really
want to expand the brand, which makes sense. When you see Apple, you
know what you're getting. When you see the Supreme logo, you know what you're getting. When you see the three
point star from Mercedes, you know what you're getting. But when you think about gaming, Razer wants you to think, Razer. Just like how watching this video should make you think about subscribing and ringling the dingaling button. Bell, sorry. I consider Razer to be a lot
like high-end car brands. Ask someone who owns a
luxury car what they drive and they probably won't tell you it's a "GLE 53 4MATIC+." No, they're gonna tell
you, they drive a Mercedes. Razer wants, and has mostly achieved, being seen in the same way. Odds are, if you ask a gamer
what accessories they use, they'll simply respond, "Razer," not the "Huntsman Elite TKL 9,000." Although if you use a TKL board, you're probably thrilled
that someone finally asked you about it. "Finally, I can tell you about my tenkeyless custom lubed switches. Yay." Then this doesn't mean that Razer doesn't also share some
other luxury car DNA, (coughing) being under reliable. Oh, sorry. I need some Cometeer coffee
that could wash that down. But to some people, that's
the price they'll pay to have what they
consider to be "the best." But the question is, can Razer make things the way that luxury car brands do? Now, if you're a Mercedes,
you make everything yourself; the engine, the transmission, the interior, the infotainment system. I mean, you name it. These are bespoke, incredibly
expensive components to develop. A clean sheet modern
engine can cost upwards of a billion dollars to
develop, test and produce. Now, while Razer certainly
has a history of developing a lot of innovative tech, it
is on a far smaller scale, which means that the
differentiation is a lot harder. There's no AMD or Intel
for engines, right? Car companies have to make
these things themselves, but in the PC side of things, pretty much everyone pulls
from that same pool of parts. Now, some differentiations, such as when Razer was the first to market with that one 120 hertz
display on the Razer phone. That's cool. But the thing is, Sharp
had that exact same display in a phone the same year. And a couple of years later, ROG one upped them with a much better AMOLED 120 hertz display. I mean, in this space, unless you have absolute piles of money, there just simply isn't the
room for true differentiation. Speaking of piles of money, Apple. They really are the only
tech company in the space that can truly make different products. That's because Timmy Cook's got that bank. They developed a huge
swath of their own tech in a way that Razer
just simply can't match. Think about it like this, right, Apple develops all of their own software. They design the chips that
go inside their laptops. And they have the scale that if they want some weird
specialty screen with a notch, they don't have to go and
ask for a purchase order. They can buy the whole factory
and it's completely fine. Meanwhile, Razer is just
not on that same level. I mean, they rely on Microsoft for the software, being Windows. They need AMD or Intel or
Nvidia to make the chips. And while yes, a lot of times they do share some of the
same manufacturing companies like Quantas or Foxconn
that Apple might use, it is on a completely different scale. And the simple truth is, Razer, as well as pretty
much everyone else who's not Apple in the PC industry, have basically the exact
same resources to work with. When Intel has that new chip, everyone's gonna get it at the same time. When Nvidia has a new embargo, guess what? Everyone's gonna launch
it exactly at that embargo because they just don't have the control over the entire ecosystem that
a company like Apple does. It's simply because Razer's
nowhere near the same size. But, when you're trying to compete and you want your name to
be synonymous with gaming the same way that the creative
life is all about being, you know, Apple this and Apple that, it's like bringing a knife to a gunfight, or a knife to a nuke fight, probably. - [Ken] Or a Razer... - Oh God. (both laughing) This is really why I come
back to the real value in Razer being the brand. With that same parts
bin as everyone else, Razer really has invested
in some of the things that they can differentiate themselves in, which is really in the processes and the actual touch and
feel of the products. I mean, think about something like the incredibly expensive
and time-consuming aluminum CNC milling and anodization, which is really what delivers one of the signature
features of Razer laptops; the smooth, thin and sturdy chassis. While most competitors are probably spending a
few dollars per laptop on like some multi-piece
plastic and metal components. Instead, I know for a
fact that Apple spends many, many times that
for every Blade laptop that runs off the assembly line. Look, when you touch
and hold a Razer laptop, it feels nice. Just the same way that when
you touch and hold a MacBook it feels great. And nothing against the Zephyrus G14, which I think is an excellent laptop, one of the best gaming laptops out there, it doesn't quite have that
same sort of feel in the hand. - [Ken] It feels quality. - Yeah. - [Ken] Whether or not you think it performs that
well, is another story. - And look, we've had
problems in the past, right? Like Razer's always, even though their devices
have always felt good. We've had Razer laptops die on us. We've had batteries die. We've had like straight boards just stop working and stuff. If you're at the store
and you look at the, sort of the look and feel of a product, it is hugely important to that perceived quality of the product. Razer also doesn't dirty
up their designs with like, tons of extra stickers and like, full HD, 144 hertz or
whatever that you see on most other brands. And yeah, this is a gaming
laptop, but outside of the logo, it's just a black, plain, very thin and simple looking device. - [Ken] I mean, people want a
MacBook on the Windows side, let's be real. - So, is Razer worth it? I mean... yeah? Razer's like the upper
middle-class of gaming hardware. If you were looking for the
best bang for your buck, you should probably look elsewhere. And likewise, if you want
the absolute best keyboard or gaming PC around, you're gonna want to build
that yourself anyway. It's easy to forget as enthusiasts that most people don't care
about the extremes, right? They just want something
that's nice and that just works and that gives them some style and gives them some performance and for that market, Razer, I do believe, delivers pretty solid,
slightly expensive products that are well-designed and
they work well together. Brands like Apple and Gucci
are built on this idea that when you buy their products, you're buying into the brand as well. And I think Razer's well on
the way to getting there, but it's not as easy, I think, because they have so much
competition out there. So, I'm very curious. Let me know in the comments below, is your next laptop going to be sporting three green snakes on the lid? Or your next chair, or straw, or mask, or mouse pad, or headset, or toaster, or tablet, or phone case, or phone skin or monitor, - [Ken] Speakers. - speakers? - [Ken] Did we get 'em all? - We, no we went through
like one of the categories. There's like seven more, - [Ken] Ohhhh.
- So. (everyone laughing)