So Brady Yitang Zhang, the famous Chinese 
mathematician, well he's done it again. It's   about 10 years ago we did a video on the twin 
prime conjecture which was solved - well not solved   entirely but sort of a big progress was made by 
this unknown Chinese mathematician. It came out of   literally nowhere and made huge progress. So just 
to recap what that was about, so the twin prime   conjecture, that's where you know we've known for 
many many years since the days of Euclid that there are an infinite number of primes. What the 
twin prime conjecture says is that there are an   infinite number of primes that differ by just 2. 
So if p is a prime then p + 2 would also be a   prime. And there should be an infinite number of 
those guys. Now Yitang didn't prove that result but   what he did prove was that there are an infinite 
number of primes that differ by 70 million.   So that's still a, you know, a finite number. And 
then since that remarkable proof, mathematicians   have got together, they've collaborated in 
something called the polymath project, and   they've managed to bring that gap down to I think 
246. So now we know that there are an infinite   number of primes that differ by 246. This is all 
down to Yitang Zhang; but now he's done it again   in another big result, you know, possible big 
result, in analytic number theory. And it has to do   with something called Siegel zeros.
- (Brady: Seagull zeros?) 
- Siegel zeros, or Landau-Seigell zeros.  (What are they?) 
To really understand what this is we have 
to go back to the Riemann hypothesis; which I know   you've done videos about before. So just to quickly  remember what that's all about; so you know, you   think about this- the the uh the so-called zeta 
function which we've we've seen before in lots of   varyingly controversial contexts. This is where you 
take the sum over n greater than equal to 1 of   n to the minus s. So this would be like, you know, if 
you'd have 1 to the minus s, plus 2 to the minus   s, plus 3 to the minus s and so on including 
all the integers. So this is known as the Riemann-Zeta function. You know, for example, we know 
that if we set this number s to -1 then   we have the sum of all the integers, or all the 
positive integers, and we know what that gives us:  without any controversy it gives us minus 1/12. 
- "The answer to this sum is remarkably minus 1/12." But this is this is a very interesting function 
in analytic number theory; we know that for- if this   s, if it's real part is bigger than 1 then this 
this sum will converge. And we can extend the   definition of this function to the whole- to all 
complex numbers using this sort of mathematical   process called analytic continuation. So this 
thing can be defined in principle for all complex   numbers. What's really interesting about this guy 
is is where does it vanish? There's an interesting   result that you can link this to prime numbers.
This is a famous result due to Euler that if I go   through through all the prime numbers like this, 
if I take products of prime numbers like this:   to the -1, 1 minus 3 the minus s
to the -1, 1 minus 5 to the minus s. So 5, minus 1- and so. I take 
all these products, so I take these combinations   of prime numbers, so these are all prime number 
entries sitting in here, and I can carry on all   the way up to infinity - this is also related to the 
to the zeta function. This is a result due to Euler.   So I think you've discussed this before right? 
That this- so knowing about this function tells   you about prime numbers, and how prime numbers are 
distributed. One of the interesting things to ask   is where does this function vanish? We can draw the 
complex plane, okay; so this is the real part of s,   this is the imaginary part of s. If I draw the line 
where s equals- this is the this is 1 here, 0   here, so this is the line where the real part of s 
is 1, this is the line where the real part of s   is 0. And we know the the function converges 
in this region here to the right of 1. I can   continue the results to the whole complex plane. I 
know, it turns out that you can show quite easily,   that there are 0s at -2, -4 and 
basically all these sort of negative even values. This is where there's- we know- these are called 
the trivial zeros of the zeta function. They're   not so interesting. What's interesting are what's 
called the non-trivial zeros. And it's known   that those non-trivial zeros will lie in this 
critical strip between 0 and 1. The famous   Riemann hypothesis says not only do they lie in 
this strip but they actually lie on one particular   line - where the real part of this complex number s 
is 1/2. So the claim of the Riemann hypothesis   is that all the non-trivial zeros of this very 
important function which is related to prime   numbers will lie on this line here. So they'll 
all be here, here - wherever they are. That's the   claim of the Riemann hypothesis. So now one can 
generalise this- have something- generalise this   idea to something called the generalised Riemann 
hypothesis, it's very similar. So what we do is we   just generalise this function a little bit. So 
what we do is instead of considering these sums   over n to the minus s, we consider a related set 
of sums. So it's still very similar, so you still   have your n to the minus s's like we had before, 
but now we weight it with this weighting factor.   Basically it's very similar to what we have 
before but they're just slightly weighted, each   contribution is slightly weighted by this number chi. 
So if you want to write it out in full it would be   chi-d of 1(1 to the -s) plus chi-d of 2 (2 to 
the -s) and so on, right. These are called   the Dirichlet L-functions. And these guys, these 
factors, well these are the sort of new ingredient   that we have now. They have various properties; of 
course these functions that sit out front here,  they basically, you know, they they take integers 
n to some complex number okay, and that's what   they are. They're just some function that does that.
They have lots of properties that you can discuss   but we don't want to go into all the details. The 
most important one is what this D represents and   that's called the modulus. And that's just the 
statement that whatever this function is, it's   periodic. So if I take some integer and then I 
add D to it then it doesn't change the value of   what this function does. So if I- for example 
if I evaluate this function at n equals 1   then I get the same value at D + 1; you see 
what I mean? So it's just- it's periodic, it just   repeats okay? So examples of this thing, right? So if 
the modulus is- if D equals 1, if the modulus is   1, then this turns out has to be the trivial- 
what's called the trivial character, and that   means that it's just 1 - it's always 1, 1 
everywhere gives us back this. If the modulus   is 2 then you- then the the only thing you can 
have is is what's called the principal character;   and what that is, that's either- that flips between 
uh 0 and 1. And think it's um it's 1 for odd   numbers and 0 for even numbers. And so it just 
has that sort of weighting. If you go to higher D,   higher modulus, you get just more complicated stuff. 
It's just a mathematical construction. The details   don't really matter. The point is this is kind of 
like a generalisation of the zeta function okay?   The claim is, of the generalised Riemann hypothesis, 
is that for these guys, again the non-trivial zeros   lie on this critical line. That's the generalised 
Reimann hypothesis. So we've gone round about, now   we have to get back to Siegel zeros. Siegel zeros 
is a counter example to that. So Siegel zeros are   zeros which don't lie on this line; in fact they're 
zeros that potentially lie very close to this line   where the real part is 1. In particular they'll 
lie sort of around here; so they're real zeros   which lie very close to 1 basically. That's the 
idea of a Siegel zero. If a Siegel zero exists   then you can prove all sorts of wonderful things.
So there's there's loads of sort of proofs you   can do in analytic number theory that rely on the 
existence of a Siegel zero. If it exists you can   prove this; if it doesn't exist well you maybe 
can't can't prove it. Here's an example: there's   something called the Heath-Brown Theorem. It says 
the following - one of the following has to be true:  there are no Siegel zeros or the twin prime
conjecture is true. So one of those has to be   true, okay? They can't both be false. So- so in 
other words if you if you find a Siegel zero, if you can show that it does exist, then that means 
the twin prime conjecture has to be true, you see?   So so you can see that these the existence 
or absence of these Siegel zeros is really   important for proofs in analytic number theory. 
Okay, so so this is what Yitang is thinking about. Okay now the the precise statement of where 
the Seigel zero lies is the following: it should lie on the real line very close 
to 1 - how close? Well that's part of the   theorem. It should lie within a small distance here 
which should go like c, which is just some number,  over log D. So remember what these things are; c 
is just a number, it's an absolute number, it it   doesn't matter what it is it's just a number - it 
doesn't depend on D. D is this sort of periodic   property, the modulus of these of these characters 
here. That's the claim of the Siegel zero; if it   exists it should lie in this little tiny region 
close to 1 okay? And that width of that is c   over log D, right? If it exists, of course, the 
generalised Riemann hypothesis is false as well. That's another thing right? Because you know if 
that's the- if that zero is there then that's   that's off the line, that's off the critical 
line right, so it's another important result. What did Yitang prove? He didn't prove the 
absence of these zeros, he didn't prove that.   He proved- so what you would like to show is that 
these zeros don't exist in any of this region here.   (Eliminate that area.)
- You want to eliminate that 
area, that's that's the that's the thing you're   striving for. He didn't do that. He managed 
to show that zeros didn't exist in a much   thinner region, okay? And the region that 
he was looking at, it had this width: Okay, so he was able to prove- so this is a much 
thinner region, much closer to 1, and he was able   to show that there were no zeros in something 
of that width. Okay? Now you might wonder where   the hell's that 2024 come from right? Well he- 
he did this by proving a related result which   included the number 2022 - which was of course this 
year, right? So it's a bit of an arbitrary choice. He himself says he can bring this number down to 
order a few hundred; whether he can bring it down   to the 1 that you need to really capture this 
statement about Siegel zeros and where they are   and the thing that's then going to feed into 
all these other proofs - well I talked to some   number theories here at Nottingham and they were 
saying well that's probably going to need some   new input to do that. But it's still a big 
breakthrough, it's still it's still sort of you   know a real advance - if correct - compared to what's gone before.
- (He's narrowed the search field a bit?) Yes. So basically he's been able to show that 
if you go really really close to 1 in this   region here there are no Siegel zeros. But to
capture the full statement you need to prove it   in this slightly larger region, okay? And as we 
bring this number down that region is going to   get bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and 
bigger until you capture the whole lot and then   once you've got that then all these factors that 
go into other proofs, and this that and the other,   will really kick in. Even this result can have an 
impact on some sort of other mathematical proofs.   (Do you want there to be no Siegel zeros?)
- No I'd like there to be one. Definitely! Because it disproves the   Reimann hypothesis right! Or the generalised treatment hypothesis.
- (That's bad news if we)   (disprove the Reimann hypothesis)
- New stuff is fun, Brady! New 
stuff you don't expect. So most- by the way most   mathematicians would say that there's probably 
no Siegel zero. It's generally- so the proof's- it's it's considered what's called uh illusory,
that's what- that's the terminology they use. So   so you can prove this if if there is a Siegel
zero but it's an illusory proof because chances   are there isn't a Siegel zero.
- (Isn't there a lot of 
mathematics that will just crumble if we disprove)  (the Reimann hypothesis? Like it'll be like, oh lots 
of things we thought were true- Aren't there lots)  (of proofs that sort of say 'this is assuming the 
Riemann hypothesis is true'?)
- There are, yes, and but  then this then goes deep into proof theory.
I mean you can have um statements which are   which are based on the correctness of their Reimann 
hypothesis and statements which are based on the   sort of incorrectness of the Riemann hypothesis 
actually. And then they just take into different   branches of mathematics actually. And there's this 
really interesting notion, you know, that people   look at, which is like um trying to unpick the 
theories of mathematics and trying to understand   um what proofs rely on what assumptions and 
therefore- and then if you break those what does-   which branch of mathematics does that take you in?
So, you know, very loosely you might say   well what if I say I only have real numbers? You 
know what can I prove? Well then you can only   prove so much, but then you can say, well I can 
extend my axioms, I can extend the rules of   the game to include complex numbers and prove 
more stuff. And and then there's this whole   game that you can play with with mathematics. So 
you're absolutely right. It'd just be fun right   if there is one! Oh there's my little Siegel zero! 
How cool would that be?
- (They'dname it after you)  (It could become the Padilla zero.)
- Well if I found 
it, I don't think there's much chance of me finding it. It's in there somewhere right? But but you 
know; so this of course has has implications in   in physics as well, at least the distribution 
of prime numbers. So so the zeros of the zeta   function, you know, they've been connected to 
um energy levels of heavy nuclei. So there's   a connection there right? So understanding the 
zeros of the zeta function can maybe tell you   something about the energy levels of heavy nuclei,
they're sort of distributed, you know. It's really quite   profound potentially. In terms of this this 
result, this latest result that he's proven,  um the jury is still out amongst the mathematical 
world - as it should be. Maths has this brilliant   uh sort of philosophy that what they do is is 
it, you know, they really- the peer review process   is incredible in mathematics. They take a very 
long time to unpick each other's work and it's   a really serious process. So that's going to take 
at least a year probably. You know, people like   Terry Tao for example have already commented 
on the- on the on the manuscript saying that the   um a certain sort of inconsistent equation- 
equation referencing and sort of just things   in the paper that are making it difficult to sort 
of follow the proof and check it. So um, you know, it   just needs a time to just to sort of tighten it up,
tidy it up, and then say, off you go guys now   check it, see if you if you agree. And actually 
it may be that they don't agree; I mean this has   happened before right? It may be that they spot a 
small error. But then what normally happens- it's   such a healthy culture, what will happen then is, 
rather than everyone going oh it's wrong they'll   probably, you know, try to work together with the 
with the person reviewing the paper and actually   try and fix it and actually- You know this has 
happened in the past with Fermat's last theorem   and things like that of course. So yeah I guess 
the jury is still out but it's potentially quite exciting. How do you build a brain that 
will solve the universe's wildest problems?   Well you can start by giving it a workout at 
Brilliant. Here's a world of courses, questions,   and puzzles that have been lovingly designed 
to make learning an absolute pleasure. Look, they   even have a bunch of stuff here about modular 
arithmetic which was touched on by Tony today. Actually they've got loads about modular 
arithmetic! They've got loads about everything   really. Everything's so clean and elegant; 
cleverly put together and really interactive.   You never want to stop you always want to see 
what the next question is going to be - at least   I do. So don't be a 'FOOLD', be a 'DOLOF'. Get 20% off 
your Brilliant premium subscription by going to   brilliant.org/numberphile - that link's also in the 
description. You can also give Brilliant as a gift  . to the future or maybe current genius in your 
life. See all the details on the website. Well I don't know about Siegel zeros but the 
search for Tony's book 'Fantastic Numbers and Where   to Find Them' just got a whole lot easier because 
it's been released in the US. You can see both the   UK and US covers here on the screen. There'll 
be a link to that in the video description.