At around 7PM on the balmy evening of Saturday, 
December 3, 2022, nearly every electric customer   in Moore County, North Carolina was simultaneously 
plunged into darkness. Amid the confusion,   the power utility was quick to discover the cause 
of the outage: someone or someones had assaulted   two electrical substations with gunfire, 
sending a barrage of bullets into the high   voltage equipment. Around 45,000 customers were 
in the dark as Duke Energy began work to repair   the damaged facilities, but it wouldn’t be until 
Wednesday evening, four days after the shooting,   that everyone would be back online. That meant 
schools were shuttered, local businesses were   forced to close during the busy holiday 
shopping season, a curfew was imposed,   and the county declared a state of emergency to 
free up resources for those affected. The attack   came as other utilities around the United States 
were reporting assaults on electrical substations,   including strikingly similar instances in Oregon 
and Washington. Let’s talk about what actually   happened and try to answer the question of 
what should be done. We even have exclusive   footage of the substations that I’m excited 
to show you. I’m Grady and this is Practical   Engineering. In today’s episode, we’re talking 
about the Moore County substation attacks. This video is sponsored by Curiosity 
Stream and Nebula. More on them later. Right in the geographic center of North 
Carolina, Moore County is home to just   under 100,000 people. The county is maybe most 
famous for the Pinehurst Resort, a historic golf   course that has hosted the US Open on several 
occasions. It also sits nearby Fort Bragg,   one of the largest Army bases in the world. And 
here’s an overlay of Moore County’s transmission   grid. Taking a look at this layout will help us 
understand this event a little better. By the way,   this information is not secret - it’s 
publically available, at least for now,   in a few locations including the Energy 
Information Administration website and   Open Street Maps, and I’ll discuss the 
implications of that later in the video. Two 230 kilovolt (or kV) transmission lines come 
into Moore County from the southwest and connect   to the West End Substation near Pinehurst. One 
of the lines terminates here while the other   continues to the northwest, without making 
any other connections in Moore County. These   two 230 kV lines are the only connection to the 
rest of the power grid in the area. At the West   End Substation, two power transformers drop the 
voltage to 115kV. From there, two 115kV lines head   out in opposite directions to form a loop around 
Moore County. Distribution substations, the ones   with transformers that lower the voltage further 
to connect to customers, are mostly spread out   along this 115kV loop. So, essentially, most of 
Moore County has two links to the area power grid,   and both of them are at a single substation, West 
End. And you might be able to guess one of the two   substations that was attacked that Saturday 
evening. Interestingly, the other substation   attacked was here in Carthage. Just looking at a 
map of the transmission lines, it would be easy   to assume that Carthage provides a second link 
to the 230 kV transmission grid, but actually,   it’s just a distribution substation on the 115 
kV loop. The 230 kV line passes right by it. Duke Energy (the owner of the 
substations) hasn’t shared many   details about the attack. In their initial press 
release, they simply stated that “several large   and vital pieces of equipment were damaged in 
the event.” Those investigating the attack,   including the FBI, are also keeping details 
close to their chest. Our drone photographer   had to have a police escort just to get this 
footage. But, we can use photos and clips of   the substations to hypothesize some details of the 
event. Just take what I say with a grain of salt,   because the folks in charge haven’t confirmed 
many details. It really looks like the attacker   or attackers were specifically targeting the 
transformers. These are typically the largest   and most expensive pieces of equipment (and the 
hardest to replace) in a substation. They do the   job of changing the voltage of electricity as 
needed to move power across the network. And,   even more specifically, it looks like the 
attackers went after the thin metal radiators   of the transformers. Just like the radiator 
in your car, these are used on transformers   to dissipate the heat that builds up within the 
main tank. But unlike the coolant system in a car,   wet-type power transformers are filled with oil. 
If all that oil drains out of the transformer   tank, it can cause the coils to overheat or 
arc, leading to substantial permanent damage. Disabling the transformers was presumably 
the goal of the attack, but obviously,   with power transformers being both so 
important and so difficult to replace,   they are almost always equipped with protective 
devices. We don’t have to do a deep dive into the   classic Recommended Practice for the Protection 
of Transformers Used in Industrial and Commercial   Power Systems, but it’s enough to say that 
utilities put quite a bit of thought into   minimizing the chance that something unexpected, 
whether it’s a short circuit or a bullet,   can cause permanent damage to a transformer. 
Sensors can measure oil pressure, gas buildup,   liquid levels, and more to send alarms to 
the utility when an anomaly like an oil   leak occurs. And, some protective devices 
can even trigger the circuit breakers to   automatically disconnect the transformer 
before it sustains permanent damage. Whether it happened automatically or manually as a 
result of an alarm, the two 230 kV transformers in   the West End substation were disconnected from the 
grid as a result of the shooting, and in doing so,   the entire 115kV loop that goes around Moore 
County was de-energized, turning out the lights   for the roughly 45,000 connected households and 
businesses. Aerial footage taken the day after the   attacks shows the disconnect switches for the 
230kV lines open, an easy visual verification   that the transformers are de-energized. You can 
also see some disassembled radiators on site,   presumably to replace the damaged ones on the 
transformers. It seems that the gunfire only   damaged the transformer radiators, which is a 
good thing because those can usually be replaced   and put back into service relatively easily. If 
the windings within the transformer itself were   damaged, it would probably require replacement 
of the equipment. Transformers of this scale are   rarely manufactured without an order, which means 
we don’t have a lot of spares sitting around,   and the lead time can be months or years to 
get a new one delivered, let alone installed. With at least three damaged transformers, 
the utility began working 24-hour shifts   on a number of parallel repairs to restore power 
as quickly as possible. Again, they didn’t share   many details of the restoration plans, so we can 
only talk about what we see in the footage. One of   the more interesting parts of restoration involved 
bringing in this huge mobile substation. It seems   that crews temporarily converted the Carthage 
substation so it could tap into the adjacent   230kv line. The power passes through mobile 
circuit switches, a truck-mounted transformer,   secondary circuit breakers, voltage regulators, 
and disconnects to feed the 115kv loop. You can   also see the cooling system of the mobile 
transformer is mounted at the back of the   trailer to save space. With this temporary fix, 
and presumably some permanent repairs to the   transformer radiators at West End, Duke Energy 
was able to restore service to all customers   by the end of Wednesday, about 4 days after all 
this started. Knowing the extent of the damage,   that’s an impressive feat! But they still have 
some work ahead of them. In this footage taken   two weeks after the attack, you can see that 
one of the 230 kv transformers is back online   while the other is still disconnected 
with all its radiators dismantled. The FBI and local law enforcement are still 
working to find those involved in the incident,   and there’s currently a $75,000 
reward out for anyone who can help.   Officials have stopped short of calling it an act 
of terrorism, presumably because we don’t know the   motive of whoever perpetrated the act. The local 
sheriff said this person, “knew exactly what they   were doing,” and I tend to agree. It doesn’t 
take a mastermind to take some pot shots at the   biggest piece of equipment in a switchyard, 
but this attack shows some sophistication.   They targeted multiple locations, they 
specifically targeted transformers, and   one of the substations they chose was critical to 
the distribution of power to nearly all of Moore   County. It’s fairly safe to say that this person 
or persons had at least some knowledge about the   layout and function of power infrastructure in 
the area… but that’s not necessarily saying much. To an unknown but significant extent, 
power infrastructure gets its security   through obscurity. It’s just not widely 
paid attention to or understood. But,   almost all power infrastructure in the 
US is out in the open, on public display,   a fact that is a great joy for people like 
me who enjoy spotting the various types of   equipment. But, it also means that it’s just 
not that hard for bad actors to be deliberate   and calculated about how and where to cause 
damage. With its sheer size and complexity,   it would be impossible to provide physical 
security to every single element of the grid. But,   protecting the most critical components, 
including power transformers, is prudent. That’s especially true for substations 
like West End that provide a critical   link to the grid for a large number of 
customers. They already have a new gate up,   but that’s probably just a start. 
I think it’s likely that ballistic   resistant barriers will become more common 
at substations over time, and, of course,   those added costs for physical security will be 
passed down to ratepayers in one way or another. But it’s important to put this event in context 
as well. Attacks on the power grid are relatively   rare, and they fall pretty low on the list of 
threats, even behind cybersecurity and supply   chain issues. The number one threat to the grid 
in nearly every place in the US? The weather. If   you experience an outage of any length, it's 
many times more likely to be mother nature   than a bad actor with a gun. That’s not to say 
that there’s not room for improvement though,   and this event highlights the need for making 
critical substations more secure and also making   the grid more robust so that someone can’t rob 
tens of thousands of people of their lights, heat,   comfort, and livelihood for four days 
with just a few well-placed bullets. If you grew up around the same time as me, you 
might remember the excellent educational tv shows   on History Channel, Discovery, and the Science 
Channel. Now those networks are filled with   reality shows like everything else, but hopefully 
you’ve seen what’s been happening over the past   few years. I won’t say it about myself, but I 
will say it about my fellow content creators:   Independent producers like Brian from 
Real Engineering, Sam from Wendover   Productions and Half as Interesting, Jason 
from Not Just Bikes, and Johnny Harris are   all making videos that are more fascinating and 
thought-provoking than any of the old tv shows I   miss. And, no offense to YouTube (I love YouTube), 
but there’s a better way to watch curated   educational episodes from your favorite creators, 
and that’s Nebula. My videos will always be free   to watch on YouTube, but they do cost me money to 
make (for example, the drone pilot we hired to get   the footage for this video). Of course, you can 
help the channel out by watching advertisements   like this one and the ones that YouTube places 
in videos, but an alternative is to pay a small  