- Hey guys, this is Austin. And this is the 250 terabyte project. Now this has been one
of the biggest things that we've ever undertaken as we literally started
working on this last year and we've literally been
shooting this video ever since. This entire project was really
built around these two units from 45Drives. The original Storinator which
we did a couple years ago with Linus, as well as
the brand new Stornado which is an all SSD server which allows us for everyone in the office to be connected via 10 Gig Ethernet, to share files, to edit
things with tons of space and tons of speed. Building an entire
server for the first time has definitely not been a smooth process. So this video actually begins in April when we first got our Stornado. So inside here, we have the Stornado. Now unlike the Storinator which we used for our previous project,
this is all SSD flash storage. And 45Drives was awesome
enough to hook us up with this for free because we're
trying to do something a little bit bigger than
what we've done in the past. It's so heavy. (laughing) So inside this Stornado is
essentially what will be our new editing server. So right now, we use a series
of Samsung T3 and T5 drives to do all of our edits. Now they actually work pretty well and it's nice to have the portability but the problem is that say, Jimmy's working on a project tonight and I wanna take over, he has to eject the
drive and hand it to me. We basically have no
redundancy if a drive fails or if someone loses something. Whereas with this, everyone will be connected
via 10 Gig Ethernet and theoretically, we can
all work on the same project at the same time. I wanna get this thing open. This is rad. Wait, did they load us
up with 64 GB of RAM? 8, 16, 32, wow. Are you for real right now? (laughing) Dude, look how cool this is. They gave us a custom front plate. Did you design this? - Yes. - Oh, you did. Oh, dude. That's gonna be awesome. So we can basically just swap that out? Oh, dude. This is so cool. The next task was actually to get the Stornado up and running
with a ton of super fast SSDs which happened in June. So inside here, we have a
whole bunch of 800 GB SSDs. So these are the Nytro
Series straight from Seagate who were very gracious to provide these for the Stornado project. But essentially, with ... Actually how many drives do we have again? Four, five, six, seven. So the cool part about these SSDs is that they're not just standard drives. So let's actually open one of them up. You'll see that these are SAS based. Now this is not something
that you can just, say, throw into an average desktop PC. That makes sense. These are actual, proper
enterprise class drives which is important 'cause
this server is going to be up for years at a time. We need to make sure that all these drives are as reliable as possible
and importantly also, as fast as possible. Especially when you talk
about 10, 20, 30 drives in one single system, reliability becomes a huge, huge factor. And the last thing I wanna
do is start editing a video and realize that, "Oh. "Right. "I lost my 31st drive "and the entire thing
just caught on fire." Which thankfully is not the case here. Also, it'd be weird if
the project caught on fire but that would still suck. Now in July, I actually thought that we were pretty much
done with this project. The Stornado was up and running and it seemed like we were
going to be ready to go. That is surprisingly
quiet for an open server. All right, so we are up and running. So right now we have
22.4 terabytes available. Now this is not actually completely set up so the main thing I wanna do right now is just test to see what
kind of optimal speeds. We're going to wanna build some redundancy and we're going to wanna make sure that if multiple of these drives fail, Actually, no, what number
are we gonna aim for? Probably like two drive failures
before we lose anything? Look at that. So we have our two 240 or 250 GB SSDs and then we have all of our 800 GB SSDs. That my friends, Oh look, look. Wait, sorry. Hang on. There's a whole other page. Keep going. That's so many discs. Oh, I love it. All right. I think we're ready to
actually start speed testing and see what we're able to
get over our 10 Gig network. So again, not totally final. We still need to get our switch involved and kind of run lines to everyone. But this should give us a pretty good idea of what kind of speed we're
going to be able to get over the network with all of our SSDs. So to start with, we have a 28 GB file. Now if I just paste it over here. We're getting 4 gigabits a second. Nice. All right, that's pretty fast. So actually, really our
bottleneck right now is just purely the SSD that we're using. This is literally just isn't fast enough to saturate the 10 Gigabit network. Oh, oh, I'm excited. All right. So let me actually try
to transfer something which is on the internal
SSD on the MacBook which should be somewhere
in the neighborhood of like, 2 GB per second. Oh, that's fast. That is 8 gigabits per second. Or like, 30 seconds to transfer
25 GB file over the network. Ooh, that's fast. So that is actually, 8 gigabits per second is
about 1 gigabyte per second. Yo, that's fast. Oh. Oh, this is good. Fast forward to August and while it seemed like our server build was missing a few critical components. So we actually started to,
you know, put that together. So you guys have already
seen the Stornado. We also have our original Storinator which will make its way in here. We also have some fun goodies. This is one of my favorites. So this doesn't look like
anything particularly cool. However, inside, this houses a Mac Mini. So there's a lot of reasons why we've chosen to go with a Mac Mini. First of all, we actually
do need something, especially for our LTO drive
that does have Thunderbolt 3. But importantly, the Mac
Mini is fairly affordable and it also has a 10
Gigabit Ethernet port, which means that this
computer can live in here, live on this shelf. We'll also have a monitor,
we'll have a keyboard so you can really easily
walk up to the rack, do whatever it is that you
need to do configuration wise, although hopefully a lot of
that stuff will also be able to be done upstairs on the network but something such as the LTO will need to be run from the Mac Mini. I love the fact that for
a power cable up front, it literally hit the button, it just presses the power button on the back of the Mac Mini. That's so cool. So on top of the Storinator, we actually are going to
have another Storinator at some point. We have our ... I forgot how heavy this is. We have our Synology NAS with 70 terabytes of additional storage. Dude, this, so heavy. - I thought you were the shredded one. - So all of these different units, the Storinator, the Stornado,
the Mac, the LTO drive, all this stuff needs to
communicate somehow and primarily, we're using this 10
Gigabit Ethernet switch to run all these things upstairs so everyone upstairs will
have 10 Gig Ethernet. Honestly, we're just
stealing Linus' setup. - Kind of. Yeah. - I mean. We're stealing Linus' setup. But to be fair, Linus was the
one who literally hooked us up with the Storinator in the first place. Like, at the very beginning,
it was Linus' fault. So we're just- - Completely his fault. - [Austin] We're just
literally just always a couple years behind Linus. So stay tuned. We'll have 80% more
ads two years from now. So especially when you're
dealing with the server, a UPS is incredibly important. - The big thing that's cool
about this though is that in the event of a power outage, there are a couple different
banks of outlets in there. So when the power goes
out, we can tell it, "Hey, prioritize these devices. "Keep these on even longer. "Shut down this one, this one first." And they can actually send
a signal to the Storinator and the Stornado to say, "Hey. I've lost power. "Start your safe shutdown process." So that way, nothing hard crashes. - All right, let's get
this stupid thing out. Oh my God. It's so heavy. All right. Coming down. And I am down. So with that, we have our UPS installed. So do you wanna try do the Stornado next? - Sure. - Be very careful not to drop our incredibly fast
and expensive Stornado. - That'd be rad. So we're gonna just line it up. Yup, line it up. - Okay, okay. - We're good. We're good. That's fine. That's fine. We're good. Yup. - Hey. - Yup. - It's working. Oh my god. We got it. - Boom. - I mean, some slight tightening. But we have the Stornado
in the server rack. - It's earthquake proof. - And now the server is finally done. So it is October and now
well, okay, I say done. It's always going to
be a work in progress. But it is actually fully functional. We're all using it right now. Now what happens when our storage is full? Or more importantly, what
happens when we need more storage that needs to be safely backed up? Well, that's where our LTO drive comes in. You see this empty hole in the rack? Yeah. So LTO is magnetic tape and actually I wanna do a whole
video on this at some point but essentially, this is a really cheap and long term backup solution. However, currently our LTO
drive is being repaired. So it normally goes right here. This has been an
unexpectedly huge project. I did not think when we first
start talking about doing this late last year, that it would
take anywhere near this long to get everything up and running. But the best part is that it
is finally up and running now. So as you can see, this
has a lot of room to grow. We have lots of additional space. And realistically, there's a lot more that I wanna do with this. But the most important thing here is that we have a really easily
accessible bit of storage for everything we need here in the office. So as we edit videos,
we can use the Stornado. As we wanna back them up,
we have the Storinator as well as we have our LTO drives. And the cool thing is that
there's so many more things we can do in the future that part 2 of this video will come out in 2021.