- Today, we are building
an entire gaming PC inside a block directly
lifted out of Minecraft. You've seen our ultimate
Minecraft gaming PC build, so when PC Game Pass reached out and wanted to sponsor a video on making an even more extreme overkill Minecraft gaming PC, we only had one option. Fire up the 3D printer. So we're currently printing
one of the biggest components for the actual system, which is the base plate. So this is gonna take a while. It currently has 44 hours remaining. Unlike previous builds which have used some off
the shelf components, for this, we are designing and 3D printing pretty much every single
thing that we can. Short of, I guess, the
CPU and the graphics card, but everything else has
to be done entirely by us with only two weeks to get it right. Our goal is to send the PC to GeminiTay, a Minecraft creator who builds some truly incredible things in game. What kind of PC do you use right now? - [GeminiTay] My PC currently
is one that I built in 2019 with my dad 'cause I'm not super good with the whole tech side of things. Currently, specs wise,
it's got a 2080 Ti GPU, it's got a Intel Core i7, a bunch of other stuff that I
don't really understand a lot, but I trust that you know
stuff about the tech side. So I'm gonna leave that to you. - After building gaming
PCs for "Back 4 Blood," "Forza Horizon 5" and "Halo Infinite," I'm sure, by this point, you know that PC Game Pass,
in fact, has PC games, but there is so much more to it than that. Not only do you get access to over 100 high quality PC games, including some of the
biggest titles of the year, but you also now have the full
Minecraft Launcher included. That means you have both
Minecraft Java and Bedrock so you can cross play with
your friends almost anywhere, including on consoles and mobile. If somehow you are not already
signed up for PC Game Pass, what are you waiting for? Check it out at the
link in the description. You can get your first month for only $1. - This Minecraft PC is the
last of our current slate of PC builds for PC Game Pass. And I got to say, we're
going out with a bang. Jared, up until this point, has been doing some really
cool mod work with 3D printing, but this one is 100%
up to his engineering to make sure that it fits
in this sort of cube, and so that it won't
fall apart in shipping, which is always a concern when we're sending stuff
thousands of miles away. - So this is easily the longest
print we've done on it yet. The longest part on the Checo
build took about 35 hours, this one right here should
be clocking in around 73, and that is after I have done all I can to try and get every bit of
speed out of this printer. We only have a couple of weeks and I'm going on vacation
for a week of it so... - Making things just
slightly more dramatic in true reality TV show fashion, Jared has booked some
well-earned vacation time, but we need to completely
finish this system before he leaves. And because Jared is
the 3D printing wizard, uh, means, uh, no pressure. (jazzy music) - [Austin] Dude, this
looks so fricking rad. - Doesn't it?
- Yes. - It looks like a Minecraft
ore block down to the color. Once we get some of that
RGB shining through there, this thing's look sick. - This is by far the most
important thing visually. This is what looks like a Minecraft block, and so the fact that we were actually able to get it printed correctly
the first time with no issues is a huge relief. We need to figure out
what goes inside of it. But I mean, at least
it's going to look cool. How are you feeling right now? Confident? - I'm feeling pretty good. - I was told that
something has gone wrong. - I was trying to keep it a secret. (Austin and Jared laughing) As you can see, at some point in the night, there's something called a
layer shift that happened and... - Well, that don't look good.
- It's a little off-kilter. - So, how many hours in? Okay, we gotta fix it. We gotta fix it. We can't print another one. We've just got to make this work. So if I got to take toothpicks
and glue them to the back to make this thing support, well, then, we're gonna
get some toothpicks or popsicle sticks, actually what I meant. What's your level of confidence
that this 73-hour print, or whatever, is actually gonna work? - Considering I walked into work the day after I finished designing it and immediately saw like
four things I needed to fix, I'm pretty confident. I'd say about 90%. - Wait, that makes you more
confident in that last- - Yeah, 'cause I already
found all of them. - You found all the problems? - Yeah, yeah, yeah, there are no more. There are no more. - So now we need to actually
put the PC together. So, what needs to go inside of
here is our ITX motherboard, which, thankfully, this is DDR4, which means that we
actually could find RAM. It's actually really helpful
to dedicate more memory to Minecraft, so having a solid 32 gigs, you can game, you can stream,
you can play competitively, or like in the case of GeminiTay, she builds these massive,
enormous structures, well, got enough RAM where you can
keep that chunk distance. You can see the entire thing. - The whole thing.
- Yeah. - I was trying to think of other things, but chunk distances. - [Jared] That's the big one. - We also do have a Core i9-12900K. Now, I will freely admit,
this is wild overkill. This CPU is not going to be stretched to its fullest potential in a system which is the size of, actually, what is this, what's the interior dimensions of this? - [Jared] Nine inches by nine inches. - That's tiny.
- Yeah, it's very small. - So there will likely be
a little bit of throttling, especially considering
that we have ourselves a slightly modified RTX
3060 to go inside, right? Do you actually think we can
put any lights inside of here? - In a big PC case like
our last Minecraft build, obviously, LEDs don't really
take up all that much, but when we're talking about, literally, like the smallest
amount of space in this cube, we need to take every bit
of room that we can get. We probably shouldn't
put LEDs in this thing. - It did it again? - You found all the problems? - There are no more. Something happened with the bed or with the print at some point, to where the nozzle struck the print. I'll have to see what I can do. This is a bit of a bump in
the road I was not expecting. I just came to go look to
see how much time was left, and, yeah, I'm kind of at a loss for words. - [Austin] That looks a
little sus, as the kids say. - [Jared] Yeah, just a tiny bit. - [Austin] But it's like
an artistic interpretation of where the motherboard should sit. - Yeah, yeah. - [Austin] I think zip tie it on the top and then ignore the bottom
mounting points and then... - [Jared] Yeah, ignore the bottom ones? - Yeah, we should ignore the
part that's printed properly. We should only use the broken part. - Yeah, yeah. - That's the... - [Austin] It'll be fine. - We kinda did a test fit before, and we learned... - Go ahead. I'm just winding it. - I'm gonna... (Jared laughing) - It needs to be broken. - Yes, it needs to be broken. So...
- Just not by me. (group laughing) - It's kinda like, you know, when you have to break a bone- - To reset it?
- To reset it, yeah. - It's not a great analogy 'cause there's a patient in
that much distress right now. - A ton of distress. No, it's okay, little buddy. You're gonna be all right. See, like that
one is already loose. I think we can just. (plastic pops) - Okay.
- There you go. There you go.
- Step one. - [Jared] Nice and swift. - [Austin] Ooh, I don't like that noise. - [Jared] This is hurting me
more than it hurts you, Austin. - Are you gonna super glue it? - I think we're gonna superglue it. I don't know if the guy with shaky hands should be wanting to do this. - [Austin] Yeah, but I don't
want to be responsible so... (Jared laughing) - So I think we, we kind of set this aside and let this dry for a minute. Actually, wait, is there... (Jared gasps) - [Austin] Oh no. Was it better when we just let it sit? Oh no. - It's sticking to my hands. This is not good.
(Austin laughing) - [Austin] Hey, Jared. - Yeah? - [Austin] What are your thoughts on making some supports for this guy? - I'm starting to think it's not optional and it has become a requirement. - [Austin] Yes, I agree. My idea here, is that we just take some old PCI covers that are typically used
on the back of a case and use these as the supports. - [Jared] They're pretty
much perfectly wide and perfectly long. (gentle music) - [Austin] I don't wanna get a call
next week when she arrived and gets the PC and goes, Uh-oh, it doesn't turn on because it has fallen apart. - Don't make me think about that. I'm already on the verge of crying. - [Austin] You'll be on vacation. You don't have to worry about it. - Oh, dude, it's true. That mean it's your problem. (Austin laughing)
This is great. This is perfect, actually. - Now that we're ready, let us begin with the assembly. So, power supply first. - Power supply first. - Install away. I'll hold it. - [Jared] I feel very uncomfortable. - Push, push.
(Jared laughing) - [Austin] Oh my god, Jared. - What?
- Cross pattern. Do you watch Linus Tech Tips? - You act like Linus has
ever done anything right. - Yeah, that's a good point, actually. That's where you got this
horrible mistake from. Look how tight the
tolerance is on this fan. There's literally no
play in it whatsoever. Also, I like how we have
matching Noctua fans, and yet no one's ever gonna
see the inside of this build. So, from here, let's think a little bit about how we wanna run cables, 'cause I think cables are gonna be what's gonna get in the way. We have such limited space. - We did get little extensions for USB. That way, they can just be
barely sticking out the end like a little pig tail. And we have that adapter for
HDMI and DisplayPort as well. - Well, that's pretty flexible. We're gonna have a
pretty good bend on that. - Oh wow, that's pretty good. - All right, so I am roughly in position. - Okay, now we can put this down. We will have to adjust
some cables around the fan. That's the next step.
- We'll deal with that later. The problem we're having right now is that the weight of the board is just slowly pulling the
top of the actual support off, 'cause it is, a lot of weight, including
the graphics card, it's all hanging and
pulling this direction. It's not going down. Let's build a support to push the graphics card up a little bit. So if we can just do literally like this, that should be enough. - Okay. - [Austin] Let's go, let's
go, let's go, let's go. - This is working a lot
better than I expected it. - [Austin] Way better than
it has any right to do. - That's on. I think that's that. (laughs) - [Austin] Did we just fix that? - [Jared] I don't know
if I'd call it fixed, but it is functioning. - Oh my god. Yo, let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go. Let's go! Let's go!
(Jared laughing) - Let's go, dude. You know, Minecraft is all
about working with what you got, going out there, gathering resources and making it work. - Which is exactly what we just did. - And that is exactly what we just did. - It is with great satisfaction, it is with great relief, it is with great
salutations and greetings. It is done. The ultimate Minecraft block gaming PC. Inside this 3D printed piece, we have everything to make a sweet build. Core i9 processor, 32 gigs of ram, RTX 3060, one terabyte SSD, 750-watt power supply, and it's a hundred percent
in a 3D printed enclosure. So one of the big thing that I think that really
kind of help sell it is the fact that we have these 3D printed sort of like diamond-ish texture, which is really just
this sort of translucent 3D printed material, but it gives it a real kind
of like diamond ore look. - [Jared] It really just kind of puts the finishing touch on it. - So this is where the air
is being sort of ejected. So we had these little feet on, so basically it's sucking
in air from the bottom, running it up through the case, then it's being exhausted out the back as long as we have all
of our USBs and HDMIs, everything like that. This is Minecraft for Windows. So of course you do have access with this version of Minecraft. You have the full Minecraft
Launcher with PC Game Pass, which means that you can play pretty much wherever
your friends are playing. - [Jared] Double press space. Someone plays Minecraft a lot. - Now, I'm gonna just try to point you to my cool little zone. I dug all this out. I definitely made all of this, and I didn't just find a cool
cave and add a bunch of water and make it look cool. After all this, there's
only one thing left to do. Pack the PC up as tight as we can, ship it off and hope that
it arrives in one piece. Oh well, I guess, technically, two pieces. - I'm very excited. I'm gonna crack it open. (GeminiTay laughing) So much anticipation. Oh my goodness. What the heck is this? This is a PC? (upbeat music) (GeminiTay laughing) That is the coolest thing I've ever seen. You can see the power button
is literally just in there. That's crazy. I can't wait to stream off of this. My audience is gonna love it. Never seen anything like this. - I'm very happy it
showed up in one piece. We were very stressed
that it was gonna be like- - I imagine. I can see it glowing. - Ay, there we go. That's a good sign.
- There it is. What a cool PC that is. That's amazing.