JZD Slušovice was a socialist miracle in 
Czechoslovakia. But not in the way you think. Starting from humble origins, Slušovice 
operated largely autonomously - growing   to something like another 
country within the country. A simple agricultural cooperative 
that produced industrial goods,   pesticides and - interestingly enough, computers? Today's subject is a bit of 
a weird one. In this video,   we look at a strange and unique community 
in Communist-run Czechoslovakia. ## Beginnings In 1948, the Communist Party 
of Czechoslovakia seized power,   establishing the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic. It toppled what was then the last 
liberal democracy in Europe and   solidified the Soviet Bloc. The Communists 
would rule for over forty years thereafter. New rules passed in wake of the takeover 
prohibited money-making activities within   the country. Various parts of the economy 
like the finance and transportation systems   were nationalized. And of 
course, there were purges. In line with Stalinist doctrine, the government 
created these massive, state-owned collective   farms. These consolidated what had previously 
been a multitude of small, privately owned farms. These were called "Unified 
Agricultural Cooperatives"   or JZD in Czech ("Jednotné zemědělské družstvo") ## The JZDs The Party had wanted these JZDs since 
even before the war. In July 1948,   laws were passed to create cooperatives in 
the worker, artisan, and farmer sectors. In 1949, private farmers were pressured to 
give up their land to the JZDs. At first,   this was voluntary. Later in 1950, 
it was not. State enterprises   would eventually come to own 95% of 
Czechoslovakia's agricultural land. The overall goal for these Czechoslovakian 
cooperatives was to fulfill the tasks of the   State Plan. But in how to achieve those tasks, 
the cooperatives had a lot of autonomy. They are   allowed to manage their own resources 
and even set wages for their workers. But throughout the 1950s, the cooperatives 
struggled with profitability. For political   reasons, food prices were kept lower 
than its production costs. This sapped   the cooperatives' ability to generate 
financial surpluses for reinvestment. In response in the 1960s, the Party granted 
the cooperatives the ability to generate   "sideline" revenues. So if a cooperative 
fulfilled their task in the state plan,   but is left with some extra 
production, then they can sell it. This sounds a lot like capitalism. So in   order to keep some cooperatives from 
getting too deep into that humbug,   restrictions were placed on the number of hours 
they can invest into "sideline" activities. ## Cuba JZD Slušovice was established in 
1952 in the village of Slušovice. Slušovice - now in Czechia - is about 190 miles 
from Prague and right outside the town of Zlin. It   first appeared in the written record in 1261, and 
was first elevated to the status of small town in   1375. In 1869, the town's population was about 907 
people and it hasn’t changed all that much since. As you might expect, JZD Slušovice’s tiny 
collective farm struggled to produce enough goods.   The area's soils are not particularly fertile. 
The workforce moved to neighboring cities for   higher pay. And the managers were former private 
landowners who did not work very well together. The JZD approached bankruptcy. Then in 1963, 
Frantisek Cuba (pronounced more like Chuba)   became chairman of the agricultural 
cooperative at just 27 years old. Cuba was born in 1936 in the 
nearby city of Březová - the son   of a farmer. His father later became 
the head of that city’s collective,   giving the younger Cuba valuable 
insight into how they worked. After graduating from the University of 
Agriculture in Prague, he joined the Communist   Party where he worked in the Czech Commission for 
Scientific, Technical and Investment Development. Upon arriving, he appropriated the 
village's only moped and rode it   around the village for inspections. 
It was in a sorry shape indeed. Cuba had rare entrepreneurial vision and 
ambition. The JZD's sales in 1962 were   about 1.3 million Czech koruna or crowns. He set 
a lofty goal to grow that to 100 million crowns. ## Work Ethic
In order to achieve this, Cuba needed to find ways to motivate people within the 
confines of the socialist system. The first thing to do was to get the 
people working - without the benefit   of being able to pay higher wages. 
But as he would say later in life: > "Human nature is such that people 
inherently don't want to work and want   to have a good life. Therefore, they must 
be compelled to work by activation factors" So he promptly announced and enforced 
three new rules. First, people who do   not show up to their workstation on 
time will not get paid for the day. Second, people cannot drink during working 
hours. If they did, then they received a fine. And third, if you want to leave the cooperative, 
you can. But if you leave, you cannot return. Many people indeed did leave because 
of these rules. So on Christmas 1963,   Cuba and a gatekeeper had to do many farm 
tasks themselves, taking care of the cows. So Cuba realized that he needed 
to do more than just crack a whip.   Following the work of the famous Czech shoe 
entrepreneur Tomas Bata, he added a "sugar". He got people involved in the work on the JZD. 
Problem solvers got promotions. Small rewards   were given daily. And people were divided 
into small groups to rouse up competitive   spirit. And famously, anyone who worked 
at the JZD for ten years got pensions. Over time, he came up with and classified six 
activation factors - fear, existential, material   interest, moral appreciation, self-actualization, 
and the factor of joy from work. These motivation systems sound 
like business school mumbo-jumbo,   but back in socialist Czechoslovakia, 
these motivations were valuable. I know this personally. The more that 
you put into your fields, the more you   are likely to get out of it. JZD Slušovice had 
no access to farming machines or fertilizers,   but through hard work they were able to generate 
the agricultural surpluses to move them forward. ## Diversification By the end of the 1960s, JZD Slušovice had 
largely maximized its agricultural production. Yields in grain and cow milk were as high as 
they could get them. And JZD Slušovice had   absorbed neighboring lands through mergers 
with neighboring JZDs - growing from a mere   106 hectares in 1952 to 6,000 hectares 
spanning 17 other villages in the 1970s. At this point, Cuba fatefully decided to 
steer the JZD beyond simple agricultural   work - despite being explicitly 
forbidden to do so. He looked for   gaps in the Czechoslovakian markets and 
started projects to produce those items. The JZD would organize meetings where 
they invited experts and professors   to speak to them about new trends. If 
the team decided a product can be made   to take advantage of these trends, they 
would set up a new department to do so. The cooperative bought products in 
neighboring markets. For instance,   raw potatoes from the Czech highlands 
or Slovakia. Which Slušovice then   professionally peeled and resold 
to private individuals, schools,   or cafeterias. The peels were not thrown 
away but re-routed to the cattle for fodder. As JZD Slušovice expanded, Cuba organized 
these projects into profit centers headed   up by regional leaders with a lot 
of autonomy. He believed that only   a small percentage of people had the 
capability to manage hundreds of people. To find those individuals, JZD Slušovice 
took on people that others would not take,   including many party dissidents. A bad political 
background did not matter. The only thing that   mattered was whether they could pass 
the internal training and do the work. ## Protectors As I mentioned, Czechoslovakian 
laws prevented the JZDs from   wandering too deeply in economic 
activities other than agriculture. Newspapers pondering Slušovice's "excessive 
capitalism" had started to appear as early as   1964. They noted with consternation that people 
there might work for up to ten hours each day. So what gives? How did the JZD avoid prosecution 
for all this? To justify its diversification,   Cuba and other JZD officials 
constantly argued the unsuitable   qualities of Slušovice's soil. In an 1988 
article, the cooperative's CFO explained: > The tradition of innovation has its 
roots in the poverty of the farmers   here ... The soil is not fertile and farmers 
always had difficulties making ends meet,   so there have always been 
small businesses on the side They sought out loopholes. In a later 
interview, Cuba said that they studied   the rules closely and found that it allowed 
them to do many of the things they were   doing. For instance, the use of a privately 
owned company to acquire foreign exchange. But of course, Slušovice benefitted from links 
to high ranking individuals in the Communist   Party with regional ties, the most notable being 
the reformist Prime Minister Lubomír Štrougal. The JZD also had powerful enemies. 
These include Gustav Husak,   First Secretary of the Communist Party 
of Czechoslovakia and later president. Husak kept an eye on Slušovice. Whenever 
newspapers reported on the JZD's achievements,   he would underline them in red and ask 
to find out who funded them. Upon finding   that it was not the government, he would get 
angry. But Štrougal's protection remained. Cuba also had ties to the Czechoslovak 
secret police or StB, which helped   facilitate JZD Slušovice's imports of foreign 
technologies or expertise - for instance,   cattle embryos or chips from the West 
- without paying excessive amounts of   money. It is not hard to imagine 
possible instances of corruption. Ultimately, what kept the whole organization 
from being prosecuted and taken apart was   its own success - validated by attention 
from the Soviet Union and even capitalist   countries. Its exploding growth became a 
ray of light in an otherwise dour economy. ## Seeming Prosperity At its peak in the late 1980s, JZD 
Slušovice would make and sell yogurt,   pesticides, tires, cattle, and more. Slušovice also had its own bank network,   with 25 branches. They operated their own 
department stores that sold foreign goods,   potato chips and coke. You could buy 
things in that store using a charge card. They even ran their own football team. As well 
as a charter airline called Air Moravia with   six aircraft. They operated a big construction 
company that built resort projects in Vietnam. The cooperative regularly held horse 
races - some of which attracted up to   55,000 people. There were also discos and 
parties for the youths to enjoy. These in   addition to the unique items sold there made 
Slušovice a bit of a tourist attraction. The 1980s saw Slušovice gain increased 
attention in the regional and even foreign   media. Reformists in agreement with the 
reforms initiated in the Soviet Union by   Mikhail Gorbachev saw JZD Slušovice as 
an example to be admired and followed. Visitors to the JZD often marveled at what they 
saw. But while critics might admire the results,   they often pointed out issues with how 
those results were being achieved. And   there indeed can be issues found 
with how Slušovice ran things. Most notably, the way it worked people. 
Remember what they wrote about the 10   hour days. Slušovice's managers tied their 
workers' compensation to their output. In 1987,   a tractor driver can earn anywhere from 
2,300 to 5,200 crowns - depending on their   performance. Work more, earn more, one might say. But the country was not necessarily in the mood to 
accept such things. Add to all that, the constant   work evaluations and you can start to see why 
critics might call JZD Slušovice a sweatshop. ## Computers One of JZD Slušovice's most famous products 
was their own line of personal computers. Cuba first launched the project in 1982 to replace   the poorly performing MINSK 22 computer 
they had been using since the early 1970s. Cuba would be a big proponent of microelectronics 
and automation. No one else was working on   computers in Czechoslovakia. So he went to 
the Slovakian academy of sciences and hired   three programmers - offering them double 
the pay and better working conditions. The first computers were used to help 
dose vegetables, monitor milk production,   and other simple automated tasks. 
Several organizations heard about   this new computer and came to 
Slušovice to ask for their own. Cuba and his team at first hesitated at selling 
the TNS - short for Terminal Network System,   but later retroactively renamed to the 
Ten Náš Systém or "that system of ours". TNS PCs were copies of 8-bit 
PCs found in the West. It was   introduced with pride in 1982 
at an agricultural exposition,   where it received a prize. These computers 
were later sold to schools for youth education. By the 1980s the West was already moving on 
to 16-bit PCs - powered by powerful chips like   the Motorola 68000. These required semiconductor 
manufacturing techniques beyond what was available   in the COMECON countries, so JZD Slušovice had 
to import these more advanced chips from abroad. Nevertheless, the cooperative had plenty 
of foreign exchange from its agriculture   and fertilizer businesses. The expanding line 
of TNS computers drove a lot of sales in the   second half of 1980s in the wake of the Soviet 
Union's economic restructuring - perestroika. ## Downfall In these years, JZD Slušovice grew to be 
the largest that it ever was. In 1989,   it generated 7 billion crowns in revenue. That same year, the people rose 
up against the Communist Party of   Czechoslovakia in what is now remembered 
as the Velvet Revolution. It ended the   Party's 41 years of rule and ushered in 
a rapid transition to a market economy. JZD Slušovice could not remain the way it 
was. The new regime was not particularly   friendly to them. New president Vaclav Havel 
had called out Slušovice by name for being a   tentacled mafia growing throughout and 
controlling the Czech food industry. Cuba resigned in 1990 soon after these 
speeches. He was later charged with the   crime of creating private bank accounts 
for the cooperative's members - violating   the regulations of the Czechoslovak 
State Bank but was acquitted in 2000. Much of the cooperative's assets were spun off 
into over a hundred companies - most of whom fell   into bankruptcy. The main organization 
turned into a corporation as well,   interestingly retaining the "JZD" in their name. But that company ended up falling into 
bankruptcy as well. Their products were   no longer competitive now that 
cheap imports were available.   And large fines had been levied 
for illegal export of farm goods. ## Conclusion After retiring, Cuba ran for office 
and became a Senator in the Czech   Republic - winning by a very high margin 
thanks to nostalgia for the good old days. During his tenure, he endorsed the creation   of a 2 billion crown industrial zone in 
Holesov, one of the largest in Czechia. Originally built for a car factory, it 
unfortunately did not turn out the way   it should have. By then, he was well 
over 70 years old. Ill health caused   him to scale down his activities. He 
passed away in 2019 at the age of 83. Today JZD Slušovice is long gone. And unlike 
other ruins, there remains little to remember   it by. Maybe a horse racing track in an old town. 
Socialist miracle, tentacled mafia, electronics   sweatshop, or archaic symbol of its time. Whatever 
it had been, it was definitely one of a kind.