- Hello, welcome to "Mystery Tech." I'm gonna get my fingers ready. I'm gonna close my eyes and
I'm gonna let the tech hit me in the face. (bells and chimes) Okay, so this is a PS5. This PS5 weighs. Yep. Okay. Authentic, real PlayStation 5. And that is a fan. Did someone get a little creative
with intellectual property and designed a fan that
looks exactly like a PS5? - [Ken] Or Sony designed
a console after a fan. - Which one came first?
(chicken clucking) The Inmorven. Inmorven. - [Matt] You Morbin? - I might be Morbin by
the end of this episode. - [Voiceover] It's Morbin time. - Did you guys really just buy this because it just looks like a PS5? - [Matt] Yeah. - So the box makes it
look exactly like a PS5, but it's a little bit
of a different shape. - [Matt] That's a PS5. - From this particular angle.
- Come on! - Oh my God.
- That is actually - Are you kidding me?
- quite close. But look at this. Look at the difference. - [Ken] What the hell? - It's got the exact same
number of USB-C ports as the PS5. Wow. It sounds just like the PS5. Oh my God, it moves. It's moving. I'm not doing that. Can you see this? - [Matt] Man discovers oscillating fan. - [Newswoman] Breaking news,
man discovers oscillating fan. - The lights. It has lights. - [Matt] I like this way
more than the actual PS5. - I kind of do too. I'm gonna say W. It's oscillating, battery powered, it's very attractively
stylish, and importantly, it blows me directly in the
face, which is the way-- - [Cameraman] What? - Moving on. You're probably familiar
with a tech YouTuber by the name of Marques Keith Brownlee. He was like, "Hey, man, I
got a new product launch." And I was like, cool. Does that mean that I get to
make some content out of it, then three to four years from now when everyone forgets that you did it, can I also sell that same item? He goes, "That's weird, but sure." And therefore we have this. I'm not sure exactly what this is. I thought I knew what it was, then I opened the box
and was very confused. So come along for the ride, my friends. So it has 251 on it. And is that Marques' signature? - [Ken] I've never seen him write before. I've never seen him write before. Does Marques know how to write? - [Ken] I think he knows how to type. - All right, let's take a
look at, my friends, at. Wait. (suspenseful music) Are these Jordans? Okay! The MK shoe. These are the Atoms
M251 signed by Marques. It even says like the size on the outside. And it's designed in New
York, made in South Korea. It even has a little NYC badge on it. Now, I'm sure as you all
come to "Mystery Tech" for shoe advice, you're really curious about my thoughts. Let me put these on. Let me just. One moment please. All right, first question.
How high do I lace these? Do I just--
- I thought you were gonna ask how to tie your shoes. - [Matt] All right, so
you crisscross bunny ear. - I'll immediately say comfort
is actually pretty nice. So I don't know if you can tell. Hey, Rio, can you do
like a before and after? Am I taller? I think I'm a little taller now. I'm just gonna stand up here. Can you just-- - [Ken] Can you get off the box? - Yeah, just.
- There's no box. - Get off the box.
- Get off the ladder. - Fine. Okay. (laughing) How do they look? - [Matt] They look great. - They look cool, right? - [Matt] I'm not
a high top guy, but no, I would **** those. - Okay. That's, what? These feel comfy. These feel like you can easily
walk around in them all day. It's nice and sort of
soft around your ankles, which is another reason why I don't usually like high tops, 'cause it just kind of irritates me. But like this is nice and soft. You've got a little pull strap, you've got a little MKBHD dot pattern. There's really nothing
that shouts out this is an MKBHD shoe besides the
logo and the tag here. - But I think that's kind of the point. - They're meant to be a
little bit more low key. So these are $185. - [Matt] That's very reasonable. - And it's free shipping too. - Extremely reasonable.
- That's not bad. It's only available for three
weeks, ending on May 16th. Hopefully this videos live by then. Atoms.com/mkbhd. If you use a promo code, Austin Evans, you get nothing besides a pat on the back. I'm here for it. Good job, Marques. What would you buy for me? Let me know, what should I make - [Ken] Good videos. - Okay, let's be reasonable. This video is sponsored by stamps.com. We're deep into tax season and if you've got a side
hustle, an online shop, or even a full warehouse, you've probably noticed the sky high postage
bogging your business down. But stamps.com has your back with some of the best
discounts in the industry. For 25 years, they've helped
over one million businesses, big and small, just like yours. With partners like US
Postal Service and UPS, you have all the flexibility you need, and more importantly, discounts of up to 84% off standard rates. stamps.com is there for you day and night. All you need is a computer and a printer. It's easy to schedule a pickup too, meaning no traffic, no lines, and more time growing your business. And if you sell online, stamps.com seamlessly connects
with every major marketplace. Set your business up for success when you get started
with stamps.com today. Sign up at stamps.com/austinevans for a special offer that
includes a four week trial plus free postage and
a free digital scale. No long-term commitments or contracts. And thank you to stamps.com for sponsoring this
episode of "Mystery Tech." Wait. This exists? The Amiga A500 Mini? Is that a mini keyboard? - It's literally scaled for your hands. - You know how I feel
about the size of my hands? There are advantages in being someone who is slightly more compact in build. - [Ken] Yeah, you fit in
the same clothes as your son. - [Voiceover] Defeat.
(laughing) - So we've got ourselves
the mouse, the controller, as well as the actual mini console itself. So we've got 25 classic
Amiga games, including. Wait, you know what? I'm gonna be real, I've never played-- - [Ken] I didn't even know what an Amiga was.
- Wait, wait. Partial nudity in an Amiga game? Which game is that and
why is it only rated T? - [Matt] Dead or Alive: Beach Volleyball." - Oh, is it "California Games?" That one looks a little sus. I'm curious to see the scale
of this because the Amiga had, oh, I don't know, like
a full size keyboard and this seems slightly smaller. Oh my goodness, this is so tiny. Oh, that's cute. Wait, do they press? Oh, they don't press. - [Matt] That's actually
really disappointing. - The detail though. The detail work is pretty impressive. So you've got your
floppy disc on the side. You've got USB-C for power, HDMI, and three USB-A ports
presumably for the controllers that are bundled in. So we've got what actually seems like a fairly decent controller. So we've got our D-pad, we've
got our X, Y, A, B buttons, our L and R, and we also have the mouse. - [Matt] Sleeper mouse. - Holy. What the, this smells-- - [Ken] Like what
form of lead are you-- - Yeah, yeah, thank you. Lead is, that's definitely the smell. Woo! This is not quite hand shaped, but like I don't see why
that wouldn't work somewhat. All right, let me get this all plugged in. I will say very generic looking interface. "California Games." - [Matt] No, we can't,
it's got partial nudity. - What is this game? - [Matt] It's inspiring to watch you game. - We're gonna go out, we're
gonna play a different game. I wanted to be a stunt cart racer. - [Matt] Oh, big shock he
goes for the racing game. - They're literally like
lifting me on the track. That's actually kinda cool. Yo, let's go. This is actually straight up fun. This is straight up fun. So how much is the Amiga A500 little guy? Wait, wait, wait. Let me use my powers
of deductive reasoning. Relatively well built,
includes multiple accessories, including color coded cables, and it's an obscure console
from the 1980s meant to appeal to only old nerds. 129. - [Ken] The price is right. - It's my lucky day. This thing's okay though. Oh! ♪ Who lives in the
pineapple under the sea ♪ - Alrighty then. What do we have here? The NexDock. So if you're not familiar, these are essentially like dummy laptops. So they look very similar to
like a traditional laptop, except that there's no
actual compute inside. Oh, thank you. Look, a Samsung device that supports DeX. Please make it on the Z-Flip. So let's see. These are always interesting to me because on the surface
it seems great, right? Like imagine. - [Ken] It's not a
Surface, it's a NexDock. - [Matt] And it kind of
looks like a MacBook. - It's funny, looking around this, it looks exactly like a regular laptop. We got a couple of
USB-Cs, a headphone jack, and a micro SD card slot on the side. And then we've got another USB-C and a mini HDMI on the other side, right? So more ports than most laptops, but this is completely useless on its own. It also has a full flippy hinge. So you got the full sort of like 360. - [Matt] One feature that this has that the other one didn't
is it has a battery in it. - This has a battery?
- Yes. - Ah, okay. So what you could do is
you could plug this in and it will also charge your phone, or at least keep your
phone's battery topped off. - [Matt] So the wired only version is $300 and the wireless one is 350. - So basically you're
paying 50 bucks extra. Okay, I mean, that's not unreasonable. So I'm gonna start by
plugging this into the laptop and then I'm gonna plug it into the S23. Now, once DeX is fired up, the phone is still fully
operational, right? So I can still be swiping through. It's a little bit latency,
even with the touchscreen. It's not bad though. So we've got the idea
of how this works wired. Let's try to do it wirelessly. All right, it shows up wirelessly. Start now. And now it is. (dramatic music) The connected TV isn't
optimized for wireless DeX. Connection with an HDMI
cable may work better. - [Matt] You mean the the wireless thing that you're connected to isn't-- - Yes.
- Okay. - So wireless DeX just
thinks this is a TV. I also would need to pair the Bluetooth keyboard and everything. Hmm. - [Ken] Okay. That's a little annoying. - If I'm using this with my phone, one of the advantages
is I want to make sure that I'm sharing everything, right? And I'm also using the battery which is built into this
laptop to charge my phone. If I can't do that, what's the point? I'm just gonna say this
is a fail on the wireless. For me and for my purposes, 100% would just use the cable. The EliteTac USA. It was originally made for Special Forces, but now has been brought to market using military grade CREE LED technology, it's the brightest and strongest
flashlight made to date. This seems like a fairly
standard metal flashlight. It does have those sort of tactical ridges so you can tactically stab
someone in the back with it. It also has a zoom, so I can actually just rotate this around and I will zoom in and out. Apparently this can cast
a beam for over two miles. This seems like they're
just trying to take a regular flashlight and sell
the absolute crap out of it. $90! This sounds like a $20 flashlight that they are marketing the hell out of. In three, two, one. Oh, that's not that impressive. That's it? Zoom activate. Whoa.
- Whoa. - Whoa, it's getting more intense. (speakers drowning each other out) - [Ken] Oh, it actually gets really bright. Zoom it out a little bit. Yeah! - So this is not worth 89.98. It's not worth $232. It's not worth 50 bucks. This is worth $12, maybe. A very lightweight, small envelope. Is it drugs?
- Yes. - Oh. Okay, so what this essentially is, is an easy way to mount
your iPhone to a MacBook and then you can use it as a webcam and get better image quality. That's it.
- And it also does like some software trickery too, to do things like top downs. - Yeah. - So we don't need our
camera up there anymore that you use the wrong way. - This camera? We don't
need this camera anymore? - Like, that's exactly
what I'm talking about. - Yeah, this camera's great. We can't use this anymore? It also functions as like almost like a PopSocket or something. So MagSafe on the back and
then you pop it this out here, and you've got yourself a little mount, or you open up the bottom part and you've got your little
clasp for the laptop. How much is this little Belkin though? - [Matt] That one is $30. - Okay, I'm gonna put it off to the side. So basically the way
they recommended doing it is basically offset it a little bit so you can put the webcam
roughly level with your camera. So I'll say something like that. Immediate problem, the
iPhone's too heavy, it just. (laughing) So right now you're looking at me through the 14 inch MacBook Pro webcam, which I will say is really
a quite nice webcam. However, now you are looking at what the footage looks
like directly from my iPhone, but being wirelessly beamed to Mac OS. So essentially right now
I am doing nothing at all other than putting my iPhone right here. I will say the quality
looks very, very good, which makes sense because
this is of course an iPhone, which has a much, much nicer camera than what you've got on
the actual webcam itself. So Ken and I are now on a FaceTime call, and when I hover over this
I have a desk view button. So I press this. Okay, it will tell me
about screen sharing. I can show both top down. So, got it. All right, so use the plus/minus controls to align your desk to the edge of the box. Got it. Okay. So this is what it looks
like on the receiving end. So not only do we have
the main camera running, which is showing me, but also you can see what
I've got here in front of me. So it's doing some tilting, some warping, some flipping to essentially
make it seem using the ultra wide camera on my
iPhone like I've got two things, although obviously it
is just all being pulled from the phone. I don't know if I'm sold, like I don't think I
would use this personally. Like I get if this is sort
of interesting to you. This is better than a PopSocket. But also, you don't
really need this, right? The Continuity Camera stuff,
this has nothing to do with it. This is purely just a way
to mount it to your device. I feel like I'm coming off
a little harsh right now. This does work exactly the
way that they advertise it. I wish it was maybe a
little bit more seamless where I could use it for like QuickTime, or I don't know if it
even shows up in like OBS or something if you're trying to capture, but like, it's fine. It's just not gonna
light the world on fire. ♪ Bum, bum, bum, ba, da, ba, da, ba ♪ ♪ Ba, da, bum, bum, bum ♪ ♪ Ba, da, ba, dum ♪ This is the Pwnage Ultra Custom, an item that we did on
"Mystery Tech" two years ago? - [Ken] What about
if we found a mouse that's the exact opposite of that? - That it's a regular mouse? The Hoglet. Boy, that's not a good name. I don't like the Hoglet. Oh my God.
(laughing) Why would this ever exist? Listen to this. - [Matt] Oh! - [Ken] It's purring. - It's just a little mouse cover. - Like, it's just a basic-ass
regular mouse on the inside. - [Ken] Oh, that makes it even better. - All right, so inside there is a little 2.4 gigahertz dongle. And importantly, they did
give me the AAA batteries in the box. I will give them that. Look, what you're buying
here is a very basic, cheapo mouse that just happens to have this neat little fidget toy on the top. This click is awful. Like, literally so bad. Let me show you what a regular
click should sound like. (mouse clicking) - [Ken] It's almost like
they should have made it a separate piece. - I think so. Matt, what's going on? - If that hedgehog isn't
good enough for you, we got this one. (gentle music) - Who hurt you, Matt? - [Matt] This is from our
good friend Jake Simmons. - Jake? Jake made this? Okay, so if you're not familiar, our buddy Jake Simmons has made some incredibly cool Game
Boys for us in the past for "Mystery Tech." And then he threw all that goodwill away with the most cursed controller
I think I've ever felt. - [Ken] Remember, Microsoft made an official one of these too? - [Matt] Yeah, Xbox gave one
of these out as a promotion. - And he made his own? - [Matt] I wanted to win it and I didn't, so he made me that. - You know all that stuff I said about this thing potentially being dirty? Yeah, scratch that. That's way worse. How much is the Hoglet? - [Matt] Take a guess. - Boy, it's a $2 mouse
with a little cover on it. 30 bucks. - [Matt] It is $40.
- No, no. If you really want a fidget toy, there are better options than this. How much time did Jake waste
making this controller? - [Matt] It's not so much how
much it cost in money dollars, it's what it cost in the pit of your soul. - You know, it's also weird because ever since we've
had this controller, - Ever since?
- I haven't seen Kinsey around (laughing) - [Matt] Whoopsie. - Thank you very much, Jake, for this horrendous
tragesdy of a controller that I am uncomfortable with owning. And the Hoglet's dumb. Boy oh boy, if you like
weird tech like this, why don't you consider
subscribing to the channel? Not only is that ringeling
of the dingeling button free, then you too can enjoy the whatever the hell this is right now.