For years Brady's come over here and 
we've talked about Klein bottles and    the mathematics of one-sided surfaces. And 
we've talked about making them but we've   never actually made a Klein bottle. Today, 
in my garden, is a Klein bottle- not A Klein   bottle maker but THE Klein bottle maker: 
Lucas Clarke from Simon Fraser University.   And welcome to Oakland, welcome to Berkeley, welcome 
to California Lucas.
- Oh thank you for having me. All right, let's start off with a little bit 
of fire, get that fire going, we'll add a little   bit of oxygen. So starting off in the beginning like, 
yeah, this is cold fire. So when I say cold fire   there's only about 20% oxygen in the air. 
Meh the rest of it about nitrogen. So all that   orange you see there, that's actually just carbon. 
All the fuel that's in the line that hasn't really   fully combusted yet. And as it's going through 
it's getting hot and it's getting bright but   it's not burning off. Now if I want to melt some 
glass with that that's not going to do anything.   So we start adding a little bit of oxygen, oxygen 
from our tank over there. We are piling that in now   and now we're start cooking. Now that- that's a flame, that's- 
we're getting a nice balanced mixture of the gases   and the oxygen and everything's burning together 
beautifully. Now from that we're going to take   some broad stock, we're going to take some tubes. 
There's hundreds of types of glass; the one that   I'm particularly fond with has a little pinch of 
boron in it and it creates this beautiful type of glass   called borosilicate. Many of you might know it as 
Pyrex, Pyrex it's a brand name, but borosilicate it's   beautiful. Its coefficient of expansion - the rate 
it expands and we start piling in the energy - ah that's much lower. So if I was to do it with 
like a coke bottle or if I was to do it with a   pane a window- or a window pane, something like 
that, the glass would just start exploding and   popping all over the place. But borosilicate - oh 
this stuff is beauty. It just absorbs the heat, it   takes it and it shifts it and it's all quite happy. 
Oh beautiful, so we just want to pull this closed. So we're gonna blow a bottle, everything 
starts off as a bubble. Now I want to add a little handle 
so I can shape the body of the Klein up. So you notice I'm turning, always always turning.
As we're heating the glass all that energy is   getting piled in; but as it's going in the 
gravity that's always acting on the glass - suddenly it has an effect. So if I was to stop, it just kind of slumps, drops down, 
makes things off kilter. But now I want to make all those little 
seals on the inside nice and smooth. Because glass is just like a tree or an I-beam, all 
of its strength is on its surface.   Now we want to add a little shape, we'll add 
a little form. In glass blowing there's really   only three fundamental actions that you can do: 
you can constrict it, you can blow it and bend it. I'm going to cut this by just heating locally   and then the force of the flame and 
the surface tension of the glass makes them pop apart. This time around I'm going to do 
it concentrically around the edge. Oh you got- hey we got one hole. We're 
back to a hole. So it like closed off   on my side, open on the other so we got one hole.   Now we got to close it off there so we're gonna 
bring it back together to be how many holes? Ah yes sing for me- sing for me. I'm gonna come in, give it 
a little puff, give it a little twist, open it up. All right, we'll be able to slide in. And around and around, 
right on that surface, right on the top, try and   keep it nice and balanced and even. Do a little 
puff. Okay, so we're starting to see some of that   red coming off, we're starting to see going in. 
Starting to feed this in. So we preheated the thing,   and it's like, yeah, all right. Kinda come in, I'm gonna 
start to puff. I'm gonna blow this out, gather it up, and slowly as it comes together 
we're gonna make contact with the out- or the   two lips together, I'm gonna make what's known as 
the ring seal. Just a little bath, nice bath of fire. Doesn't crack on me but it might, okay. And I'm just gonna start working that in.   And I'm gonna take a second to get 
rid of all those little curved edges, remember to breathe, puff it up. Again with our little reamer and we 
just kind of push it where we'd like   it. Just a gentle nudge. Now currently- now do you
know, how many holes do we have? Just little by little  heat it up, bend it round, and we'll make it 
work by blowing bubbles. Turn around. Let's just give it a little tap, you know. Bring out a little bit 
of that heat and we're gonna flash,   we're going to heat it up nice, smooth and- ...or even the bottle itself, 
it's tied around on all these ends. Oh sometimes it moves. No, I'm gonna 
grab it and just kinda pull it into place. Gonna use the uh surface tension 
and the gravity to pull all that out.   And I can smooth it in a bit and blend it around, just glide it along my breath. Thick glass, it can hold 
on to the heat the longest. And as you blow on it it stretches the glass, and it's the heat that allows it to move. Wow Bit of a waiting game. I'm gonna wait for this to cool off so 
I can just grab with my hand, and then I'll   uh work on the other side. Probably keep this 
on a- yeah let's see if we can find that center-   (Brady: Cliff you must have seen quite 
a few thousand Klein bottles in your time,)   (does watching the birth of a Klein bottle 
still excite you or have you seen it- ?)
- Excite me?! Brady- Brady it's hot glass; it's more than that, 
it's just somebody whose craft is built into his   fingers. To to to hang around Lucas is just a joy.
- There it is, it's the real deal, handmade. Oh look at that! Hey there, if you like puzzles, problems or 
just interactive mathematical stuff then   check out Brilliant. First up, here's an easy 
one: how much of this pattern is colored yellow? Maybe this will help your thinking. But now 
how much of this square is shaded blue? Hmm   Want something else? Let's go into the courses;
here we are, how about these hat problems?   Hat problems are like a whole thing in mathematics 
you know, and they've got loads of them here   on Brilliant. In fact Brilliant is chock full 
of stuff like this that's going to give your   brain an entertaining workout, make you smarter. 
If you haven't signed up already why not do it   today? Numberphile viewers get a 20% discount on 
their subscription. And if you have signed up,   well that's okay, why not give Brilliant as a gift? 
Perfect for the learner in your life who already has everything. Go to brilliant.org/numberphile 
for more information or click the link under this  video. Thanks brilliant for supporting numberphile!
- ..well the way I make these, the answer is   well sort of yes. You can fill a Klein bottle with water. 
- How much money do you want? So I say   I don't know? 100 bucks. He reaches into his pocket 
and starts counting out twenty dollar bills