- Hello and welcome to Wishtery Tech. Let's buy some dumb stuff on Wish. This video is sponsored by Visible. Alright, Wish knows me 'cause
the very first item I see are Pokemon cards. If you remember the last
episode of Wishtery Tech I got a fake booster box
of XY evolutions cards. So when you've been burned once, go back. - [Ken] We know how
this is gonna turn out. - Wait, is this a $10 bill
they're selling for $18? So it's a $10 bill inside a puzzle, and if you can get it out, you win. Am I gonna spend $18 plus $9
shipping to buy a $10 bill? - [Ken] Yeah. - That checks out. What is this? Burning fat sticker. It's a sticker. These are two different people. Are we into Blitz Buy. We haven't done Blitz Buy in awhile. Let's do Blitz Buy. - [Ken] Back to the tradition. - Yeah. - [Ken] That never works for us. - It never works, I never get anything good out of this. Is this a box of chocolates? - [Ken] That would
actually be pretty useful. - It's 5.6 pounds of candy cane. I'm not eating 5.6 pounds of candy. I gotta watch my, I gotta watch my figure. I gotta wash my clothes. - [Ken] What are you talking about. You are literally the most
fit person in the office. - Alright, hang on I found one thing. Do you wanna try a dubiously correct pair of Beats headphones for $27. What can go wrong? - [Ken] A lot. - Alright, let's look up the brands. What do you think the top brands are? - [Ken] Samsung. - That sounds like a brand I've heard of. What stuff can we get from Samsung? Wow, Samsung Galaxy Buds for $18. - [Ken] Oh, we gotta get that. - And literally you go on the Samsung authentic brand pack product it has a little green check mark. I means that's gotta be real. You want an $86 Chrome OS desktop? It's got USB three up front,
USB three on the back, DisplayPort, HDMI, Ethernet. This is a clear win. - [Ken] It's literally
everything you could ever want. - Sign me up. Alright, let's check categories. Let's do the electronics category. - [Ken] Okay. - iPhone 4s fully unlocked, $42. - [Ken] That actually
doesn't seem that bad. - I don't think I have an
iPhone 4s in the office. - [Ken] Yeah. - We can see what we can do with the... Excuse me, relieve legs and feet pain. Oh, hell no. Electric foot stimulator massager. - [Ken] Yeah. - No. - [Ken] Year. - I hate I'll dude, I hate electricity. I hate being shocked by things. - [Ken] Get it. - Dead or alive PS4, $121, $27 shipping. - [Ken] I think that might've been, the one that they banned. - Do you remember the Sony Bloggie Touch? - [Ken] Oh. - Yo, this is old school, yeah. This would be a great
way to see 10 years later how far we've come. - [Ken] Yeah. - Okay, this is just fake. Look at the bezels on this tablet. Look how thin there's like
no bezel on this thing. - [Ken] Man, Samsung could
make that an actual reality and I still wouldn't want it. - Do you want a scooter from Wish? - [Ken] Yes, is
it covered by insurance? - Absolutely not. - [Ken] Oh. - Alright I'll see here. There's a razor scooter for 180 bucks. Electric powered, 180 bucks
free two day delivery, free two day delivery. - [Ken] What, from Wish? - Oh, what, is this. It's a dock for your dock
the way you put on your, your Joy-Cons. - [Ken] That's actually kinda cool. - So that my friends is a look
at what we're ordering today for Wishtery Tech. Join me in one to two
months when all this arrives and we see what nonsense we've purchased. This episode of Wishtery
Tech is sponsored by Visible. Visible offers, wireless service
for as low as $25 a month for unlimited data powered by Verizon, that also includes their 5G network. Visible also has a nice feature
where they do support eSIM. So for example, if you're new to Visible and you have yourself an eligible iPhone when you bring your own
device, you can sign up and activate your phone with Visible within 15 minutes or less
online, just inside their app. And you don't have to wait for
the SIM card to be delivered. Although of course you can still have them ship you a SIM card as well. And of course, by using eSIM you can take Visible for
a test drive as well. So the nice thing here is that while yes you can move your number over immediately or if you just wants to see
how Visible works for you, You can download that eSIM, get
everything set up in the app and you'll be up and running in no time. So that sounds cool to you. Definitely be sure to check
out Visible at the link in the description and
you'd show it to Visible for sponsoring this
portion of Wishtery Tech. Welcome back to Wishtery Tech. Let's take a look at what we've gotten now after many months of waiting. I forgot to get a knife didn't I? that's just great. I am super prepared for this episode. So in traditional Wishtery Tech fashion it's been long enough since
we purchased these items from the fine retailer known as wish.com that I have exactly zero memory of what we've actually purchased. Oh, look a Chromebook. Cool, I remember that now. - [Matt] It's not a Chromebook. - How much did this Chrome top, what do they call these things? Chrome. - [Matt] Chromebox. - Chromebox. How much does Chromebox cost? - [Matt] A total of $87. - Okay, $87 for a
Chromebook without a screen is not particularly crazy. So I remember, I took a look at an ASUS one of these years ago,
like five, six years ago. Oh, things are happening. Things are happening. Cool, I'm signed in. Oh, we're launching Google
Assistant, Google Assistant. Alright, connect to your
phone, nah, I'm good. Whoa! Wow, look at that. I will say that actually
was incredibly fast. Like the entire set of process for this Chromebox took
no more than 47 seconds. Oh, this is the final
software and security update for this Chromebox to get
future updates, upgrade to a newer model. Oh, well that's unfortunate. I guess we're not getting
Chrome updates anymore. - [Matt] So this is from 2014. - Oh, no wonder it doesn't
get updates anymore. - [Matt] Would you say that
that was planned obsolesce? - How dare you forced
me to give a shout out to our recent episode of
This Is we go all over the conspiracy tech in your life which by the time we
eventually finished this video we'll have probably been up for a weeks. But I'm sure you're happy to
go and check out this clip that we have very helpfully provided of a hilarious this is highlight. I'll actually gotta say that, look how snappy this feels, right. Like so...
- [Ken] It looks great. But I also Chrome OS it's also
run on mobile hardware too. So, I mean, I'm not
surprised that it's snappy. - YouTube is a little bit slow. Oh, look at that, an Austin Evans video. Wow, I love to watch this. This seems like something
really entertaining to watch. Okay, let's go 1080p. Actually, let's go 4K. Let's see what happens. Woo, doesn't like 4K, alright. Okay, we're not gonna play that 4K. 1080p, 1080p there we go. This should be reasonable. There we go, look at that. Perfectly reasonable
1080p YouTube performance. Look, am I gonna to say
that we got the best deal in the world by spending
$80 on a Chromebook that we could have actually
gotten in for $40 on eBay? No, no I'm not. But, is it still kinda usable in 2021? Well, yes. Yes it is. Is this just a block of foam? Oh, there's something in here. I legit thought you were just
throwing package material at me. Alright. Oh, this is the iPhone 4s, 4s. Alright, I will say this. The iPhone 4s has a
special place in my heart because this was my very first iPhone. In fact, my very first
iPhone was a white 4s. I mean, think about the
Galaxy S3 and the S4 everything was so plastic and basic. And meanwhile Apple had
these beautiful sort of like, chamfered edges even though
actually they were technically not chamfered at the time, but like the way that the
whole phone was put together. And honestly, even though
the size is really small it was so ahead of its time, man. I mean, it should say
something that the iPhone 12 basically just stole this
design and brought it back. - [Matt] It's almost like
Apple's out of ideas. - I'm not shouting out
This Is anymore, Matt. You're not getting a card. You're not getting a montage, a way back machine going
over more this is content we're not doing it. Hello? Hello and welcome. - [Ken] It looks
like good old iOS 11. - iOS, I don't even know. I need a code from, I
need a code from someone. - [Ken] Josh. - [Matt] I can almost guarantee it's Josh. Yep, there it is. There it is. - 783
- [Matt] 783 that's some inception. He's gonna hear us saying it. (laughs) - Josh, you're beautiful
bastard, thank you. Here's how we used to take
selfies back in the olden days. See. You kids today, you have it too good. You zoom in your front facing cameras. This is a video sample
of what video looked like all the way back in
2011 with the iPhone 4s. Now is it missing things like auto focus? Yes. So if I move the camera around here. Oh look, everything is blurry
until I get right up on. Oh, did your camera just die? Your camera just died. Perfect, 'cause I have the iPhone 4s to shoot the rest of Mystery Tech on. What a unique bird's eye
view of Mystery Tech. Alright, this is the Bsiri gift craft money puzzle. How much was this item from Wishtery Tech? How much did it cost me? Well I get the unboxing,
I get the unboxing. - [Matt] $18 - $18, but it didn't come with my $5 bill. So I'm very, I'm very upset. Come back with it to the sec,
come back over here, okay. So the way we're supposed to do this is you lift it up, you
knock it, you knock harder and then you move the things
around and put money in it. Are you done with iPhone? Okay we'll move on from my phone. So, up. - [Matt] Cool, great,
that's great for the table. - Oh, it works, look at that. - [Ken] It feels like
we just won gigantic scam. - It's a puzzle and no
one will figured out unless you know the secret combination on how to get your money out. Okay, so we're gonna
just slide that in here. - [Ken] And then
just hit it until it opens. - [Matt] Yeah, I would say so far the secret is bash it against the floor. - I have now successfully
track my $10 bill. However, will I get it out? - [Matt] It's like watching a
monkey learning to use tools for the first time. - Right. - [Matt] You have the
instructions and you still - Okay, wait. (groans) - Unbelievable, unbelievable. You almost took me out, man. I was actually really like wait. Oh, I forgot about that. Okay, so this. If you've watched Mystery
Tech for a long time and if you have thank you very much. You'll know that there
are a couple of things I don't like in this world. Chief among them, things that shock me. Not a fan of things that
can be a little zappy zap when I'm not ready to be zinged, zipped, zapped or bopped. - [Matt] That looks an awful
lot like the muscle massager from, This is Beauty episode. (laughs) - Here's the thing. Normally Matt makes jokes like that. So I give a shout out to This Is, 'cause Matt doesn't like the idea that This Is is a failing
channel, that is terrible, that everyone should unsubscribe
from and never watch again. That's what happened when
you push me too far, Matt. I tell people to unsubscribe from This Is, unsubscribed from This Is. Here we go, I like this. I'm gonna stand on it. (groans) Okay, so, not pain, but like, uncontrolled, like my muscles are doing this. It's very strange. I guess this is a massager
because it's massaging you from the inside out. (upbeat music) It's actually calmed down now. No. Alright, it took a break for a second and then gave me a full,
full shot of the beans. - [Matt] A full shot of the beans - Full beans, man. You know like when your
like legs falls asleep, I feel like I've got
that, but all the way up, like my ball, I'm feeling
my balls right now that's what I'm trying to say. (groans) There it goes again. Okay, okay, okay. This Sony Bloggie Touch. So this is a camera that I very
much wanted back in the day. And in fact, this is one
of the very first products that I actually got a review sample of. So Sony sent this out so I can do a video on it back in 2010, 2011. Wait actually I'm about to open this. This is actually new stock, new old stock. I thought this was actually
had been repackaged. This is actually the original seal on it. How much did we pay for this? - [Matt] You paid $108 and 56 cents. - Okay, so it's priced
like new, old stock. This is actually a brand new
item we purchased from Wish. This has been sitting in the
box for 10 years at least. - [Ken] This is a relic. - It looks legit there's nothing
that really would make me think this is not a real. Oh yeah, that box looks real. If this is a fake, someone's
put a lot of effort into making it look legit. Oh yeah, there we go. Do that 100 percent brand new.
- [Ken] Oh my God. - Look how sleek this is. So essentially you had a
small 720p camera on the top and you have a vertical screen on the back even though it actually shot horizontal. So if you do it like this you're actually shooting
it in horizontal mode. We have a tripod slot on the
bottom and pop out USB port. - [Ken] Oh, there you go. - Pretty cool right. There were very few options
to get some sort of easy and affordable video, short of
actually spending real money on a much bigger camcorder. I'm gonna plug this in, get it charging. I really wanna see how this thing holds up and please tell me that's not
dead after all these years. That'd be so sad. Oh boy, it's a Nintendo Switch. Oh why Mr Bolido do
I have a Nintendo Switch? (giggles) Okay, this is the four
slot Joy-Con charger. The only reason I purchased this is because it looks really dumb. Thank you for providing
lots and lots of Switches. Now this is actually a
real thing though, right? If you're playing especially
when you're using the Joy-Cons and like a multiplayer kind of experience there she drained relatively quickly. And especially when you wanna
have a bunch of people over or you're trying to play
the Mario Kart or whatever. It actually is nice to have some place to charge your Joy-Cons when
you're running on the dock. Especially if you have quite a few. So I'm gonna slot this into
my bottom USB port on the dock and then it lines up reasonably well. And then I've actually got another passthrough USB port for some power. So I guess the way I would do this is I take off my Joy-Cons and
I slot them in here right? Oh, that is a very tight
fit a very tight fit. That is actually oddly satisfying. It is kinda cool, I will say it definitely
looks like it should be the way that you actually charge Joy-Cons. - [Ken] You should plug it in and see if the light
is on and if it's cool. - [Matt] You gotta test your work. - Alright, alright. - [Matt] Never take Wish at face value. - Okay, and then, yeah, look, there we go. So we're charging A, B, C, and D with a Switch dock. I don't have anything else to say. I'm not used to getting an item from Wish and it working and being
exactly as advertised I'm not sure what to do now. Do I just stare at it? Do I make some loud noises and do something entertaining and beg people to subscribe more? I don't know what to do now, what do I do. - [Ken] Just clap and move on. - Next item. Oh, look, magic. It's almost as if there was no editing in the middle of those two. See why are you here that
you weren't in the last shot now it's weird that you're
here you broke my continuity. He's just creepily,
standing behind me now. Alright, open up some Wish stuff. In box number one we have,
oh, the Buds live, alright. So I actually really do like the real Samsung Galaxy Buds live. The beans as the kids call them. These are almost definitely
not the real thing. Matt, how much did I spend
for these Galaxy Buds live that I got from wish.com - [Matt] $27 and 10 cents. - For context, the real
Buds cost 150 bucks, something like that. The box looks legit, Right? Can we take a closer look here. I mean, there's nothing that
really is jumping out to me as super fake here. It's even got the little
Samsung seal on it. I don't know I mean it
seems relatively legit. - [Ken] The Buds live
logo looks a little off. - Oh, you know what you are right. The text on the Buds live
is a little bit different. It's not bad though. Okay, that actually looks legit. Like actually very legit. This actually looks like the real case. It is the exact same size. It does look like maybe slightly
dented or something. It's not completely smooth I
can feel a little bump here. I will say, I'm pretty sure
these are not authentic but I'm actually not a hundred
percent sure right now. We open them up... Wow! So for context, I have my legitimate pair
of Galaxy beans here. Now I'm gonna take a close look and see. - [Matt] Careful, you might mix those up. - I will say though the one thing that does feel a little
different about the cases, even though they're pretty much identical - [Ken] The lid. - Is the lid yeah. So like the actual real one
has all spring to it right? This doesn't right. There's just nothing holding it in. I can also test if they have
wireless charging as well. So these are the real Buds. So I'll just turn around here. You see there's a little
light on right now. So I am charging it using the Z Flip. Okay, that gets a pass. Let's put this on and see what happens. Oh, look at that. No wireless charging. - [Ken] Throw the
other pair again on there. - So yeah, we'll double
check, works, yeah. So they do not have wireless charging. These are real, these are actual fakes. Let's actually see it. So let's go ahead and
pair them with the Z Flip and see what happens, right? Oh, it shows up as Galaxy Buds live. I see Galaxy Buds live, hang on. Okay, so the wearable
app immediately knows I am not connected to anything. - [Ken] Really make sense. You can only fake it so far. - Nah, nah. At 20 bucks, I'm not happy with this sound but I'm like, I'm not disappointed especially considering just how legit the rest of everything looks. - [Ken] If you're going
for straight type and you just wanted people to think
that you had these beans. I think that's really cool but I don't expect it to sound good. - That is a trip. Okay, well I'm, I'm impressed. Let's see what's in the next pack. - [Josh] Hey guys, this
is editor Josh here. I'm just gonna stop this
whole operation real quick because I'm gonna save
you some time and myself. 'Cause I don't wanna edit this. Don't you guys remember
these blue pair of beats? Like you see how Austin doesn't
even remember any of this. No one on the crew remembers this. Well, I got our back guys. We've already covered
these exact same pair on an episode from less than a year ago. If you haven't seen it, go
ahead and watch that video if you wanna see the result. Anyways, Austin didn't mean to take over let's get back to it. - They might look cool If
you think 2012 aesthetic was great. Don't crush my Z Flip
stay away from my Z Flip. What is this? - [Matt] You ordered it. Oh, this is the Razor scooter. Okay, well I'll say I haven't
ridden on a Razor scooter since ever, because I wasn't a cool kid. But this looks like a real one to me. Oh no, this is the whole thing. Wait, this is really small. Wait, is this meant for grown men? - [Matt] You're not a grown man. - Good point. So to really put my Razor
scooter to the test. I'm gonna be vlogging
with my Bloggie Touch. So prepare yourself for some
sweet 2012 YouTube action. Alright, this seems like a bad idea. Here we go. Alright, now I'm gonna attempt to record. Okay, alright. So that idea I'm definitely gonna eat [oof]. Here we go. Vlogging, yeah. So not sure how the actual image quality on the Bloggie Touch is this
Razor scooter is very slow especially if you've used any
kind of modern Razor scooter then you realize it's not fast. How are you doing? - [Ken] Good. - How's the image quality on that very expensive new camera that is 10 years newer
and 10 times the price. - [Ken] Pretty good. - Bet you wish you're using the Bloggie Touch right now, huh? - [Ken] No, I'm all good. - Can you take the Bloggie
Touch while I ride my scooter? Thanks. And of course, big shout out to Visible for sponsoring this video. If you want to pay as
little as $25 a month for unlimited talk, text and
data, check out the link below and get started with
Visible in literal minutes.