- It is time, my friends,
for Japanese mystery tech. Last time I used Sendico to find some of the most absolutely wild
Japanese tech I've ever seen. So today we're taking it up a notch. Junk consoles. What is a Japanese junk console? $103 for junk game machine,
which is a Super Famicom, a Famicom, and a original PlayStation? For a hundred dollars? So here's the thing. I think that the Japanese
definition of junk and my definition of junk are
two very different things. They're treating this thing
as maybe slightly damaged. I would treat this as, oh, pretty much average what you would get. What is a SHARP Twin Famicom? (foreign language) Famicom is the Japanese version of what we call the Nintendo
Entertainment System or the NES. But this is a Famicom that
seems like it actually takes, like, sort of Famicom games,
but also has a floppy disc. What is this thing? (gasps) No, no, no, no, no. That is not what I think it is. Yeah, boy. A Panasonic Q. If you're not familiar
with the Panasonic Q, it is one of the weirdest
Nintendo consoles ever. So it was essentially a GameCube, but it was manufactured by Panasonic. And not only did it work
with GameCube games, it also had a full DVD player. Alright, my friends, I've
got everything I need to place my orders. So wish me luck on the
bids and I'll see you on the other side when our
Japanese mystery tech arrives. Why, hello there. Our box from Sendico is
here, and as you can tell, (glass shattering)
it is chunky. Now, this was originally
gonna cost me $319 to ship all the way from Japan. However, and I will give
full props to Sendico, they messaged me saying, "Hey, we saw you were paying
a lot of money for that. Would you rather use
FedEx? It's only $98." That wasn't even an option
when I was trying to check out, but they specifically added it. And in fact, this box costs
less than the previous box, which was half the weight
from our first video. So thank you Sendico for
looking out for your boy. $98 for a box that is this
big and heavy shipping all the way from Japan is
a very, very good deal. So I'm gonna go into this
with some good vibes. Alright, is everyone ready to see the happy shenanigans I
purchased from Sendico? - [Alex] I'm so excited. - [Kinsey] Let's go. Wait, sorry, I'm supposed to be Ken. Let's go! - There we go. Bring the energy. As always, you know what? I gotta say, so again, to be very clear, I have no affiliation
with Sendico whatsoever. I'm not part of the affiliate program. This is not sponsored by
Sendico, anything like that. Let's see what we've got. Whoo. Oh, look at this. Wow, how convenient. My "Pokemon" cards are right at the top. - [Matt] Oh, here we go. - What a great place to start with stuff that you can only get in Japan. This is a 151 collection,
special collection. Bulbasaur, Charmander, Squirtle. And look, unlike last
time where I stocked up, this is the only "Pokemon" card
segment for the whole video. So we got ourselves a little binder, which we can load up with
all of our neat hits. Dude, look how cool. Look at the Squirtle. Look at the Squirtle. - He's like, "Hey, I'm Squirtle." So we had terrific luck last
time when we purchased items from Sendico. I'll just say straight up, I got more items this time. Most or some of them are
probably not gonna work, but let's give it shot
because look at this. It's a Famicom. Look how cool this is. So even though this is, I think, one of the junk items, right? It still comes in the original packaging. Oh, oh, it smells like 1987. So this is our Famicom, but this came in a lot of three consoles. So I also have a Super Famicom and an original PlayStation. All three of these consoles with boxes, admittedly in untested junk condition, was a little less than $110. Now, if any of these
work, I will be happy.. But I mean, look, I'm not gonna lie, just the fact I get to unbox these, I don't know how like
minty they're gonna be, but these boxes are in good shape. I mean, even this one is not bad. Whoo, there's a hair right there. Okay, that is a hair. That is a hair. So we're gonna just, uh. Let's take a look at the Famicom. It's physically in good shape, I would actually say in very good shape. Now, this is the later
model, which I believe is, I mean obviously very
straightforward and simple. I mean, there's really,
you've got AV out and DC in. We do have two controllers in the box. What I don't see is a power adapter. Wow, look at the controller. 'Cause I will say this is a
million times better feeling than an NES controller. Before we try the Famicom, let's take a look at what we've
got with the Super Famicom and the PlayStation. Oh wow. That's not looking good, huh? I don't know if I want to sniff this one, but I guess I'll just go for it. - [Alex] Oh, please don't. (Austin sniffing) - I'm smelling a 1989 Ford Taurus. Okay, so we've got cartridge slot, we've got a power, more hair. Oh yeah, as you can see here, yeah so this is probably
the original color 'cause the controllers were in there, and then this is the new color. So you see the difference
between the silver and then just the, kind of, like, just effortlessly fades
into beigey-beige town. Yeah, that's probably what happened here. Oh no, wait. This doesn't come with
a power adapter either. And so it does come with two controllers, which are slightly less yellow,
although also quite yellow. I do like, though, the color buttons. Like that definitely gives
a little pop of color that obviously matches
the Super Famicom logo. Boy, you know I'm
realizing that we may need a whole bunch of adapters. Last time we shopped Sendico, we were immediately stymied
because we didn't have an adapter to get from PAL to NTSC, which some of the older
Japanese consoles needed. But now I'm realizing that not only do we
not have power adapters for some of these, I don't
know if we have AV cables that are gonna work. 'Cause that looks a little
different than what you had on, like, the N64 and the
GameCube and everything. So I guess we'll see if that works too. So this is the PlayStation Dual Shock. What? Why? This a PS2 controller. This is a PS2 controller. Wait, wait, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Okay, wait. So this is a PS1 controller. Hold on a second. First of all, look at that. I see AV cables and everything
still in the plastic wrap. But I guess the thing is, I've never seen a first
gen DualShock in black. So maybe that was a thing. Maybe this was actually released
for the PlayStation one, but if so, I've never
seen that before because-- - [Matt] I've also
never seen a black one, a black cable with a gray connector. - Oh no, you're right. No, this is a PlayStation one, isn't it? - [Matt] Yeah. So this is a black
PlayStation one controller. Now, it looks almost identical
to a PS2 controller, which all of those were
black as far as I know unless it's some special colors. This is so neat. So neat. - [Matt] Okay. No. Okay - Got 'em. So this is actually a nice shape. It's literally still got
the plastic wrap on it and everything. Oh dude, this looks actually really nice. Now, mind you, the original PlayStation, eh, we got a little
yellowing on the memory card, but the original PlayStation, I do think it's, like, quite forgiving, the plastic they use, just because this sort
of gray, even as it ages, it doesn't look like this, right? Like I think you look
at the Super Famicom, and this thing looks kind
of gross pretty quickly. But this, I think, aged pretty well. I mean obviously, who knows if it works? We're about to find out. But like this is definitely,
like, the nicest overall, like, packaging, condition. So we have gathered all of
the adapters and what not that we hope will actually work. So this may take a little
bit of trial and error, but let's start out with
going for the Famicom. Theoretically, when I press
this button, things will happen. If it was dead, I would assume some nonsense
would be coming out. Oh, hey, yo.
- Hey! - I did it. And you know what I did? Nothing. It's plugged directly into the TV. There's no adapters, nothing. Oh look, is that Nes? - [Matt] I don't know,
but it's got better graphics than "Pokemon" in 2023--
- No, it's a Famicom. - Now, I'm going to move my AV cable and my power cable over. Let's try the Super Famicom. - Oh, it works too.
- Hugs. - Oh no, wait, that's bad. - No, that actually, yeah.
- Yeah. - [Alex] That's maybe not. (Austin exhales)
- Blow it like you mean it. (ocarina sounding) - Next task. I'm gonna try the PlayStation. Here's hoping that this works. - PlayStation noises.
(PlayStation whooshing) - Hell yeah, brother. Look man, there's some noises that are just unlocked
core memories in my mind, and that's one of them.
(PlayStation chiming) Oh my God. I'm doing the thing. I'm pressing the X button. On Japanese PlayStations it's
the O button to go forward not the X button. Hey. All three have dope boxes
and are gonna look cool, but I think it's safe to say that two of the three
are fully functional, which I'm gonna take that as a win. Now this next item was one of those things that I was just, like, I
don't know what this is, but at 36 bucks, I think
I need it in my life. So this is the Tomy Stunt
Game, "Black Rider." Aw, this is like wrapped up in paper here. Oh, it's actually small, isn't it? Wow. So it does have batteries and it's... Oh, good Lord. We need Cs. We need C batteries. Who has needed a C battery since 1980? So it's interesting to see like how, like, analog all of this is. So you've got the little, like, button and you also can literally, you just keep track of your
score by rolling this forward. So we're at zero now. So I guess as you win or lose, you just roll this little counter forward. Let's load up the C batteries. (Tomy Stunt Game ticking) I pooped myself. (Kinsey laughing) Why is that so loud? Good lord. Okay, I don't know anything
about what I'm doing right now, so let's just try this, okay? So I turn it on. Oh we got it. Oh, I crashed. Oh, so you hold it to reset. Jump. Ah! This is so cool. Okay. So there's a lot that goes on here. I see why it's so big. Because basically when it's running, you've actually got a moving, looks like a film strip basically. And then you've got your
little dude who's lit up. He is literally physically, like, rotating and moving up and down. This thing is legitimately cool. I mean, I don't know if I'm
gonna play it for more than, like, 10 minutes before I kind
of get the idea of the game 'cause the course, literally,
there's like a car, some boxes, and a couple poles. That's the whole course. You do it over and over again. This is neat though. (air whooshing)
So for this next item, This is one of the most unique
consoles I've ever seen. This is an NEC PC-FX. Now, this was a successor to the TurboGrafx-16 So this is, I believe, mid '90s. But I'll be very, very honest with you. I don't know anything about
this thing, like, at all. So up front we've got power, push to open. What's this? Oh, what the? Expansion slot? Controller, which we
have a little dummy port for our controller. So we have RCA as well as
S-Video, which is nice. And then we have a little
door here, which hides... What the? What is that? There's a huge expansion slot. Wow. Look at this game pad. It's got some like heft to it. We have mode one and mode
two, which is interesting. These are physical little,
like, dip switches, and then we have a little
bit of a mushy D-pad. We've got "Dragon Night 4." Oh, this is 18x. Alright, well, let's see if this works. Hey. Oh look, we've got an actual interface. Hold on. Hold on. Wow, look at this. Okay. Yeah, boy. Yeah, boy. I fixed it. Okay. Alright. (everyone laughing) We're gonna turn this one around. We'll turn this TV. - [Alex] I think that's fine. I think, yeah, that's fine. - (indistinct) Okay. The three of us can commentate
on what's going on here. Okay? - [Matt] It's got a bush, what the? Hugs. (all laughing) - So there's some dudes and there's like this creepy guy with
a cloak in the middle. - [Kinsey] It's like a
throne room or something? - A throne room. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Maybe some ritual action, perhaps. So now that we've gotten through the morally objectionable content, let's try to actually
play a game, shall we? Okay. So I will say graphically,
this actually looks nice. But keep in mind that this is, even though it's running on CD, this is clearly a sprite based game. It's not actually like using 3D polygons. I'm gonna play some of the other games, investigate, and report back.
- No, no. So I purchased a lot of
Game Boy Advance games. A lot of games, especially
like Game Boy and DS games and stuff are unbelievably cheap in Japan. How much did I pay for this
lot of Game Boy Advance games? - [Kinsey] $32. - That's okay. Yeah, that's a pretty
good deal considering that we've got a copy of
both "Ruby" and "Sapphire," two terrific games. Not "Emerald" 'cause that was expensive. The good thing is, I
believe all Game Boy games were region free. So let's start out with
Sapphire, the best one. Oh wait, the game doesn't work. This is an untested lot, isn't it? Okay, well "Sapphire" doesn't work. Alright, let's play the second best "Pokemon"
third gen game, "Ruby." - Okay. Oh, hello. It is me, back with another Game Boy. Let's try this one. Surely this one will work. Yeah, I got this one from Sendico. It's in its natural habitat. Doesn't work either. Oh wait, that one actually... Is that the only working
game out of this whole pile? Wait, no, no, no, no, no. Hold on. Wait. "One Piece" I tried on
this one, it didn't work. Okay, "One Piece" now works. All right, we're gonna
start with "One Piece," then I'm gonna figure out if
any of these games are real or not. - [Kinsey] Is it "One Piece" baseball? - [Austin] Wait, is it? I thought it said "One "Piece." - [Kinsey] No, but look. - It's baseball "One Piece."
- That's what I'm saying. "One Piece" baseball. - Whoo. Whoo. Whoo, well they got it. Somehow after plugging it and
unplugging a bunch of times, got "Ruby" to work. Um, my save battery is dead? Okay, well I'm in. (game crackling)
- That doesn't sound good. - I think most of these
games are probably fixable if you just clean out the
cartridges a little bit because they do get quite dirty. Oh. So yeah, it tried to load
there and the Nintendo thing is corrupted. So I guess there's your PSA. If you buy used games that are untested, they might not work and
you might have to fix them. Is everyone here familiar with the Famicom that I was on the table roughly
seven to nine minutes ago? - [Matt] No, we didn't see that. - Okay. So Nintendo made a thing
called the Famicom. Not important. But they also wanted
to get a little spicy. They said, "You know what, this
whole cartridge based thing, it's not working out." So they partnered with
Sharp to create this: the Twin Famicom. What you might ask is a Twin Famicom? I'll tell you. It's the Famicom's
slightly younger brother. So here is where you
insert your normal slot. Up front you have a 3.5 inch floppy drive. Why, you might ask, would
you want a floppy drive on your Famicom? To that I would say, you uncultured swine. (pig oinks) For $135, I may have
gotten a little over eager on this one because while it's
a really cool piece of tech, it's not untested. It's tested. And not working. - Wait. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. You spent-- - No, no. Okay, let me be clear. The cool part's not working. It works as a Famicom, supposedly. It's just the whole floppy
disc drive was intermittent and/or not functioning, which makes it a big cool
Famicom that all your friends are gonna look at and go, "Sharp made a Nintendo console?" And if you're surprised by that, wait until you see the
final item in this video. This is one of those things
that I was vaguely aware of but have never actually seen in person. - [Kinsey] The text on that little switch, when it is like that, that says cassetto, which is like cartridge, and then if you flip it, it says disc. - Oh.
- Yes. - Of course. Because you weren't using
both at the same time. You're either using one or the other. So it locks it out if you're
gonna use the 3.5 inch and if you're just gonna
play a regular game. That's very smart. So we got a couple of
buttons up front here, as well as the LED. The fact that it's got the
3.5 inch drive is really neat. Again, not functional, so a little bit more of a novelty. But you know what I wanna do? I wanna keep my controllers nice and safe. I wanna keep 'em right here in the back. So not only do I have
two controllers included, but they're hardwired,
so you ain't losing them. It's also has got, Matt, you probably know
this 'cause you're old. What's that weird video signal? Like it's got all the, like, it looks like some ancient writing. You know, like, the little
wiggly-diggly dudes? - Wiggly-diggly dudes. It's just Japanese. - No. Not the text. That connector. It looks like S-Video's weird, old cousin. - It was a, well, it's analog. But so it's RF, so it's
like an antenna port. - Are you sure about that? Because I feel like that's what these are. That literally is RF. What's this guy? - [Matt] No, it's literally
says RF right there. - Oh yeah. - It's a different form of RF. - You know, that's the only
thing that's not Japanese that says RF. That's a good point, actually.
- Yeah. - I probably should have read that, yeah. - [Man] Bruh. - If you actually look at the controllers, do you notice it says one and two on it? Isn't that actually kind of cool? Oh wait. - Famicom. Please set disk card. - How cool is that? There's an actual, like, interface? Look at that. It immediately launches. So this is a neat idea. It was not particularly
popular from my understanding. It's really strange that this is back. Like there's nothing that
says Nintendo on this, right? It says Sharp here. Like you would not know that
this is a Nintendo console. While I could have gotten a
more functional Twin Famicom, I will say that those are a lot of money, but it's an interesting piece of history. And again, not something
you're gonna find outside of Japan very often. So this next item is something
that Ken has been asking to buy for years, but
they're really expensive. So instead, I bought a
used one off of a Sendico. This is a Panasonic laptop, but it's not just any laptop. So if you open it up, you'll
see it's actually not that old. So even though it looks ancient with its little circle track pad, which apparently makes sense to someone, but this also has a tablet functionality. Not only does it have
a tablet functionality with a camera both front and back, but if you flip it over, what you got here is a removable battery. For $115, what I've got here is truly a revolutionary marvel of technology. In fact, I'll go farther. It's actually got a seventh gen Core i5. Welcome back. Where'd you just come from this morning? - Japan. - Okay, cool. I got you a laptop from Japan. - Oh great. - So you've been wanting
us to do this for so long, so I went above and beyond. - Okay. This is a Let's Note, but
it's not any Let's Note. Take a look. - Oh, this is light. Whoa, this is way lighter than I thought. Okay, first thing that stands out to me. There's a big honkin' release lever here. (computer clicks) (Austin chuckling) This is kind of crazy. Also, look at that
connector on the bottom. - [Austin] Yeah. - That's kind of nuts. Whole reason why they
even make these devices in the same design for, like, decades is literally
because you can interchange all the parts and stuff. - [Austin] Yeah. - So like even if stuff
breaks, the parts exist. This screen looks great. - It's pretty good, right? - You know, this looks
like a 10 year old laptop just from a distance, but
you wouldn't be able to tell if you were just looking
at the screen by itself. Oh so this is not touchscreen. - So I don't know if it's a touchscreen. I was trying to set it up and I realized that I don't believe
the touchscreen works. - My first inclination is that
this is actually just broken. Oh Jesus. Oh God. (Austin chuckling) What is happening? - Oh no, you know, what? It keeps seeing false touches here. So that's what's triggering it. - Yeah. A Core i5-7300U.
- Uh-huh. - Clocked at 2.6 gigahertz, 8 gigs of RAM. We have an SSD in here. Samsung. It's not good, but it's not bad. - Could you just point
out that Ken right now is taking a photo of me
with a Japanese laptop? I just wanted to just point that out. It could be worse. (Ken laughing) It could be worse. - It's actually not awful. - I've got a little backstory in this. Let me open it up and I'll show you and I'll explain how hard it was to get. Behold my friends, the one and only Panasonic Q, baby. What's that? - [Matt] You bought
one after all this time and it's got a little dudette. Oh God. - [Kinsey] That does not sound good. - [Matt] Sounds like
a babbling brook in there. - This is a Panasonic Q. Now, if you're not familiar, let me take you on a little journey. The GameCube was the
first Nintendo console to use optical disks, but
they were the little guys, which is kind of dumb in a world where the PlayStation 2 could play DVDs. So for some reason,
unbeknownst to most of us, Nintendo partnered with
Panasonic to create a upgraded version of the GameCube that could also play DVDs. This was, as with many of
the things in this video, Japanese only. They were fairly limited and these are incredibly expensive. The cheapest Panasonic Q that I could get and it cost me $330. A fully functional, like
good condition Q will go for, I would say between like 6 and $800. Like these things are properly expensive, and a really nice one can
go for over a thousand. So we've got ourselves a
little display up here. Of course it's got handles
'cause it's a GameCube at heart. This is a DVD drive. So it will play GameCube games, but you also can play CDs and DVDs. You got your four controller ports, you've got your memory card slots, you got a little GameCube logo to show you that it actually works as a GameCube. But then you have a bunch
of other stuff here. So you have a bunch of
different modes for, I believe these are the sound profiles, like bass plus, cinema,
game, surround sounds. Flip it around to the back and you'll see a ton of ports
including two sets of RCA, actually, I'm just realizing. You've got your digital AV Out. You've got your S-Video. - [Kinsey] Less than a
hundred thousand units. - That is minuscule. I mean, we're looking
at some of these things that are failures that saw like 400,000. So these are rare and the ones that have
survived are even rarer. And I don't know if this is
going to categorize in that. Let me see how bad this is. Let me see how much
hassle it's going to be to actually get up and running. Here goes nothing. We're plugging in. Let's press the power button. Oh, okay. Wait, here's a good sign. Wait, we have our red LED. Oh, hey. Hey. Whoa, yo yo. Okay. Okay. So we've got video signal. We've got our little screen which says the disc tray's open. More true than you know. Okay, let's crack it open. I will admit I am
venturing into the unknown, although I will immediately say something. If you look at this, three
of these screws are the same, one of which is definitely different. So someone has opened this
and maybe messed it up. So maybe that's part of our problem. Here we go. Oh, well that, you know what, that's probably not gonna be that helpful. In fact, I think, maybe,
I opened the wrong side. Let's open up the other side. I'm gonna get to the bottom of this. - [Matt] Plastic is
literally just spilling out of it. (Austin screaming) - Whoo-hoo. Bro. The disc drive must have
been broken and someone glued the--
- Hugs. - Out of it. - [Kinsey] It's so glorpy. - [Matt] I have good news for you. - Do you though? - I do.
- Okay. - Apparently this is a common issue. People, there are replacements
on eBay for the rail kits. - Really? (pieces rattling) - If all those are black pieces, that's actually a good sign for you. - I don't think this is
gonna be a simple repair. Thank you very much for watching this episode of "Sendico Tech." Please subscribe to the channel. Every like is one more second that I'm gonna spend
crying over my Panasonic Q that is gonna be a nightmare to fix.