Hello. Today I want to show you how to 
draw a perfect egg using geometry. Okay,   so what I'm mixing is formal geometry 
with nature, and isn't nature wonderful?   So what I've got is five dots here which 
I've already mapped out to make a pentagon.  If I threw it away it would be a penta-gone, but it's here. And inside the pentagon I'm gonna 
form a pentagram. The pentagram was used by the   Pythagorean cult in southern Italy; the followers 
of Pythagoras. And they felt it was magic,   just magic. And in a way I agree with them. 
So a pentagon and a pentagram you need to join   opposite corners. Wonderful thing about the 
pentagon is all these lines are divided by   golden ratio. There's two things you can measure: 
you can measure that distance there short distance   to the side, or the long distance across there. 
Divide that into there you always get the golden   ratio. But even when you split it up again - 
divide that into that - golden ratio. And it's   it's just absolutely beautiful; but how am I 
going to form an egg? Something that's natural,   something that has a natural shape in nature.
Well, a few more lines. Okay, first of all,   through this point here parallel to the base I'm 
going to draw another line. Now two more lines:   one of them there, the end of that one 
to there, and one from here to there   and all my line drawing is complete. Now for 
the egg. A hen is a production line of eggs;   there are nine in the process, from the very 
smallest to the one that's going to be delivered   today and it's the one that's delivered 
today that I'm going to show you now.   First of all I'm going to ask you, which end 
of an egg comes out first? The thin end or   the thick end? Did you know? Well I'll 
tell you the answer is the thicker end.  Why? And I'm going to explain that. What I'm going 
to do now is draw a semicircle. It's going to go   from this point here down here. Now it nearly 
coincides with the bottom line but it doesn't,   it overlaps it slightly. What I'm drawing shows 
you just how the hens egg is laid, because when   it's laid the shell is soft and as it's soft the 
egg inside has been more or less a perfect ball.   And as it begins to be laid it's pushed 
out just like a water bubble coming out   from the bath; a perfect hemisphere, a perfect 
heart sphere - and that's what I've drawn here,  and that's the bottom of the egg. As it's-
- (Brady: Does it grow Johnny? Because it   doesn't come out-) (Presumably the hole in the 
chicken's not that big so   it comes out thin and then 
balloons-) The hole- the hole stretches perfectly to cope, right? And 
it allows it- and of course the pressure   inside the body is pushing it out, but 
it acts just like water forming a perfect   hemisphere right. When it's half out 
already it's beginning to solidify   but the rest has to be thrown out, and the 
rest is forced out through the pressure   inside. But now I need some more curves. So 
I'm going to take the end line- end point there   and stretch that out to here and draw that, that's 
it I've got it going now. And from the other end   I draw that right on the point, and there it 
goes, and we've nearly got our egg. Now we've got   one more curve to make and that's the top of the 
egg; and for that you need a centre here on the   leg there. And now I turn that around it should 
complete the top of the egg like that. And there   we have our perfect egg. And if you don't believe 
me, if I bring this to the towards the camera- (I'll give you that)
- My dad used to say 'I've got an egg here,   fresh. I caught it dropping.' So that means it would- the shell wouldn't have 
been solid because it only solidifies once it's   out and the air gets to it and it's a reaction 
with the air. But it's very beautiful. I don't   know any more mathematics that goes with this at 
all other than the thing is beautiful and it links   nature to geometry and I love them both. Cheers.
- If you'd like to go even deeper into   the mathematics behind egg shapes, this 
reasonably recent paper may maybe of interest.   They were chasing a universal formula for egg 
shape. Now for chicken eggs it looks like this,  but for more pear-shaped, so-called pyriform 
eggs, you need this one. Meaning the universal   egg formula - well it's this whopper. 
The four parameters are the egg's length,   breadth, shift of vertical axis, and the diameter 
at one quarter egg length. if you'd like to check   it out, read all the details, we'll include 
a link to the paper in the video description.   And over on our extras Numberphile2 channel 
you can see an interview I've just done   with a Ukrainian poultry engineer who helped 
create the formula. That's worth a look too. The principles of evolution, yeah, to deduce 
another more complicated formula so it   it appeared to be very complicated. It 
appeared to be awful from from my point.