I just love the way Australians name things. The Millennium Drought or the "Big Dry" 
was a massive drought that started at   the end of the 20th century and 
went 10 years into the 21st. This drought fundamentally changed Australian 
society. It forced both the state and central   governments to drastically reform how 
they managed and sourced their water. In this video, we take a brief look 
at Australia's Millennium Drought. ## Drought Country Australia is familiar with droughts. In the 150 years from 1860 to 2010,   Australia has had a major drought somewhere on 
the continent in 82 years of them. So drought   is a normal part of Australian history. 
And Australians have seen some bad ones. There was the Federation Drought - 
sometimes called the "Great Drought"   or "Long Drought" - which lasted from 1895 to 
1902. Measured by the number of animals lost,   it was the worst drought in Australian history. The Murray-Darling river systems 
are critical to much of Australia's   agricultural industry. The Darling 
River was dry for over a year. The   Murray River fell to just 2% of its 
normal flow during the summer months. Thanks to effective government, little to no 
people died from thirst or starvation. However,   the drought devastated animal populations. 
Over 52 million sheep and 40% of Australia's   cattle died - mostly from starvation 
with serious economic repercussions. The Australian colonies had 
just experienced a bad economic   depression a few years earlier. Rural workers 
suffered poverty, isolation and hardship as   their livelihood literally dried up, 
shriveled and died in front of them. Australia's second pretty bad drought in recorded   history happened from 1937 
to 1945 during World War II. Compared to the Federation Drought, 
the World War II drought had more days   of rain but the periods of intense 
dryness were far worse. Strangely,   it affected both the northwest and 
southeast Australian areas at the same time. Forests dried out, leading to a 
series of massive bushfires in the   state of Victoria in January 1939 
called the Black Friday Bushfires. Fanned by extreme heat and high winds, 
the fires killed 71 people and burned   down 650 buildings including entire 
towns. Ash fell as far as New Zealand. ## The Pacific Ocean So drought is a way of life in Australia. What   is it about the climate that 
makes droughts so frequent? The big difference between Australia's climate 
and that of many other temperate regions in the   world is that it is influenced by conditions in 
its surrounding oceans that can last for years. Over in the Pacific Ocean we have El Niño. This 
is where the waters off Australia get relatively   cooler as compared to the Pacific waters off 
South America, which get relatively warmer. This leads to high atmospheric 
pressure. In high pressure systems,   air goes downwards and winds blow 
outwards away from the high pressure zone. This hurts cloud formation, creating warm 
and dry conditions in Southeast Australia. ## La Niña El Niños are frequent causes of drought in 
Australia's heavily populated southeast region. The Federation Drought for instance was 
caused by sustained El Niño activity. Such droughts are often broken by La Ninas, 
which are the inverse situation of the El Niño   - abnormal warming of the waters off Australia 
as compared to the waters off South America. These in turn can bring low atmospheric pressure, 
more evaporating ocean water, and rising hot air   to create clouds. More clouds mean big rains 
and possibly floods in southeast Australia. I should note that the presence of a La Niña 
does not always one-to-one lead to storms.   There are other influences too - particularly 
involving the polar oceans below Australia. The Southern Annular Mode or Antarctic 
Oscillation describes a belt of winds   that continuously circle around 
Antarctica in a westerly direction. The winds can either be "positive" or 
"negative" - and that describes their   north-south location. If they are positive, 
the winds contract towards Antarctica,   which can bring less winter rain 
to certain parts of Australia. ## The Drought Begins We generally say the drought began in 2001,   but there is an argument for it 
starting all the way back in 1997. The 1997-1998 water season had been an El Nino 
year, so it had been pretty dry. But then in the   years after that until 2000, rainfall over the 
whole country was near the long term average. The year 2001 had been normal for most of   Australia. The middle two-thirds 
of the continent including North,   Central, and most of the Western Australia 
received an above-average amount of rain. However, other parts of Australia did 
not fare so well. Eastern Australia   received below average rain. And 
the country's southwestern region   fell into a drought with some 
of the lowest rains on record. The next year 2002 was Australia's 
fourth driest year since 1900. 99%   of the state of New South Wales 
was declared to be in a drought. ## Relentless This dryness had been caused by an El Niño 
that finally broke down at the end of 2002. As a result in 2003, Australia 
as a whole experienced about as   much rainfall as the long-term average - 
with some areas like the north receiving   above average rains and the southeast at 
about average or slightly below average. This became a defining trait of the 
Millennium Drought. The drought was   not super-dry. Australia has experienced 
much more intense dry droughts before.   The drought in 1982-1983 for 
instance had been pretty bad. During that 1982 drought, caused 
by a particularly strong El Niño,   it was reported that trees that had been around 
since Captain Cook succumbed to the dryness. Entire wheat crops died out for the first time 
in decades, costing billions of Aussie dollars. And then a massive fire called the 
Ash Wednesday Fire killed 75 people.   Newspapers described the damage to the city 
of Adelaide as like being covered in napalm. So things did not get quite as 
bad as that. Throughout its life,   the Millennium Drought's only truly bad dry years 
across the whole country were 2002 and 2006. The thing about the Millennium Drought 
that made it so distinct was that there   was no above-average rainfall 
in between all those dry years. There was no La Niña at all from 2000 to 2006, 
and when La Niña events did take place in 2007   and 2008, they did not cause as much rain 
as it should. That is because the South   Annular Mode - those westerly winds near 
Antarctica - were in their positive phase. Long story short, Australians could not 
recharge their aquifers and reservoirs   with above-average rains. Combine 
that with consecutive dry seasons   and exceptionally high heat levels and you got 
a slow but relentless drain on water storage. ## Cutting Demand Australian cities started experiencing 
water shortages as soon as 2004. Each of the cities manage their 
own water supply and storage   systems so the amount of water they had 
available to them varied. For example,   Brisbane's existing water storage facilities 
were capable of storing 6 years of water use. Adelaide on the other hand can store only about 10   months since most of their water came 
from the rapidly drying Murray River. This lack of water became a frequent 
discussion topic. Photographs of dry   lakebeds made the news. The publicity 
pushed state and city governments to pass   policies to address the water shortages 
from both the demand and supply sides. Demand-wise, the main policy the cities used 
were water restrictions - implemented over   a series of stages targeting 
highly visible uses of water. Sydney's Level 3 restrictions in 
2003 for instance banned sprinkler   usage as dam levels dropped below 40%. Other 
residential restrictions include car washing,   hard surfaces washing, and garden work. So on. In practice, they were difficult to enforce and   mostly depended on people's community 
spirit, volunteers, and self-policing.   Yet it does seem like they did work, despite 
some murmurs by a few disgruntled people. Government statistics show that household 
water consumption per capita declined 20%   overall from 2004-2005 to 2008-2009. 
And all the states and territories cut   their water usage except for those 
guys up in the Northern Territory. ## Expanding Supply All of the mainland Australian capital cities   started building desalination 
and water recycling plants. The water recycling plants were supported in 
these efforts with funds from the Australian   central government's National Water 
Commission. The commission ran until 2012   and provided $1.48 billion for projects. 
Many of them involved water recycling. I talked about water recycling before in 
my video about Singapore's Newater. In it,   I mentioned that one town in Queensland 
that refused to accept an advanced water   recycling plant because of 
the "toilet to tap" issue. The Queensland government had scheduled 
a vote on the issue May 2007. But with   the water crisis intensifying - Brisbane's 
daily water consumption had been cut from   300 to 139 liters per person - Queensland 
Premier Peter Beattie canceled the vote. The government then just went 
ahead to develop a large water   recycling project - the Western 
Corridor Recycled Water Scheme. It quickly added 3 advanced water treatment 
plants which drew their water from existing   wastewater plants and injected the water 
into the state's Lake Wivenhoe reservoir. The scheme is Australia's largest 
recycled water project and cost about   $2.5 billion - $400 million of which was funded 
by the aforementioned National Water Commission. Similar resistance to the water recycling issue 
caused problems in other towns in Queensland,   New South Wales, and the Australian 
Capital Territory. In many cases,   the government opted for alternatives rather 
than building new water recycling plants. ## Desalination The desalination plants have been some of the   most public government responses 
to the water shortage situation. Australia has had desalination 
plants since the turn of the century,   but the drought saw five cities spend 
$13.2 billion to rapidly build these   facilities. These are some of the largest 
infrastructure projects in Australian history. Perth kicked off the trend with the Kwinana 
Desalination plant, a wind-powered reverse-osmosis   plant that is one of the largest of 
its kind in the southern hemisphere. Completed in 2006, it today generates 45 billion   liters of water a year - slaking 
the thirst of 17% of Perthians. Next was the city of the Gold Coast,   where Margot Robbie grew up. They built a 
Desalination Plant in the suburb of Bilinga.   Then after that came another Perth plant, a Sydney 
plant, an Adelaide plant, and a Melbourne plant. There is nothing wrong with desalination 
plants. The issue is that they have   well-known environmental, financial, and energy 
costs. For instance, their usage of power. One of the issues is that 
when it started raining again,   desalinated water - as well as recycled 
water for that matter - became no longer   economically competitive according 
to the way the accounting works. So these facilities get mothballed as spare 
capacity in case of an emergency where dam   levels drop to a specific level - 60% in the case 
of the Western Corridor Recycled Water Scheme. I am not necessarily sure whether this is the 
best use of all that heavy invested capital.   Water recycling and desalination plants - like 
semiconductor fabs - are the most economically   efficient when they are constantly being 
used. But it is good to have the capacity. ## Agriculture & Rivers All in all, however, the wealthy cities were 
okay. The same can't be said for the farmers. The drought wreaked absolute havoc 
on them. Intense heat and lack of   rain dried up the dirt, destroying 
crops and kicking up dust storms. It is claimed that the country's agricultural 
sector lost $7.4 billion in production and   70,000 jobs in the 2002-2003 years alone.   I should note however that this number is based 
on the theoretical value of crops not planted. Australian sheep farmers saw the 
numbers in their flock decline by half,   the lowest since 1905. Dairy 
cow herds declined by 25%. In annual crops like wheat and rice, 
there was major volatility. Rice is   a particularly water-thirsty crop 
and farmers got flak for growing it.   That is despite the fact that Australian 
rice farmers are some of the best in the   world when it comes to yields and 
growing premium-priced variants. Nevertheless, rice production plunged from a 
peak in 2000 to a low in the 2006-2008 period,   which helped contribute to the great Asian 
rice price crisis that happened in 2008. Australian wheat farmers suffered 
other issues. For a long time,   the Australian Wheat Board served 
as a single desk negotiating and   setting export wheat prices. Domestic 
prices are completely deregulated. But after a series of embarrassing scandals,   this was replaced with a free market 
export system. Grain farmers now have   to negotiate and set their own prices of 
export grain. That took some adjustment. The biggest rumble of all was the 
country's water markets reform. In 2007,   the Australian government passed the 2007 Water 
Act which expanded a long-running series of   reforms to regulate water usage allocation 
rights in the critical Murray-Darling Basin. Economists argued that this water market 
would create a more economical outcome   overall. But you also have to admit it will not 
benefit everyone. In the market's early years,   more than a few farmers suffered 
in selling off their rights early   on only needing to buy them back at 
elevated prices due to low allocations. ## Agricultural Responses The farmers struggled financially. A farmer might spend $200 dollars 
Australian per hectare to plant   wheat. If the drought kills the crop 
then the farmer gets nothing from it. At the same time, market prices for some of 
their most valuable crops like wine grapes were   at a multi-year low due to a worldwide glut. It 
is easy to see how this combo can rack up debt. In 2007, the National Australia Bank 
mentioned that the average farm held   debt in excess of $412,000 dollars. To help keep 
the farmers and other small businesses afloat,   the Australian government spent 
$4.5 billion in transfer payments. Some policymakers argued against this - 
pointing out that many lands in Australia   are not economically sustainable 
without low cost water. In 2007,   the government offered $150,000 Exit Grants 
for the farmers to walk away from their farms. In the end, the biggest and the smallest 
farms made out the best. The biggest farms   because they were big. The smallest - 
family farms with less than $100,000   in income - because they made money 
doing something else off the farm. The drought ended a generation of 
future Australian family farms. A   survey taken at the end of the drought 
finds that less than 30% of Australian   farmers expect their children to take up the job. ## The Drought Ends The drought began to lift at 
about the 2008-2009 water season. Some areas exited the drought sooner 
rather than others. In November 2008,   there was an above-average amount of rain falling 
on much of Australia - including South Australia,   the Northern Territory, and Western Australia. Farmers were able to start planting 
some of their crops. Cotton and canola   plantings were up 50% - a sign 
that things had started to turn. However, the drought continued for the 
heavily populated areas of southeast   Australia - with devastating consequences. In 2009, a massive heatwave sparked a series of 
bushfires that ripped through Victoria. The fires   were called Black Saturday and killed 173 
people and burned over a million acres of land. Finally in 2010, the drought broke with a 
very strong La Niña causing massive floods   called the "Big Wet". The rains came so 
hard that it became a natural disaster in   of itself. 35 people died in the flooding and 
billions of dollars of damages were incurred. Shortly after that, the western 
Queensland and northeast New   South Wales regions experienced yet 
another drought. And so it goes. ## Conclusion Up until the 1980s, droughts were 
seen and treated as natural disasters. A climate abnormality similar to floods 
or cyclones. But throughout the 1980s,   scientists began to argue that 
we should treat these droughts   more as part of Australia's 
natural rainfall variations. This change in policy sparked a great deal of 
controversy. Farmers pointed out that they were   feeding the nation, and that they couldn't control 
whether or not a drought would happen to them. But the government was working off data 
that was essentially correct. Droughts   were already a way of life in Australia 
before the world's climate started to   change. The Millennium Drought was 
a only herald of things to come.