I want to tell you about exotic objects in 
topology. Before I do that let me just tell   you more generally what topologists do. We study 
geometric shapes, but unlike in ordinary geometry   we don't care about lengths, angles, areas, volumes -
we don't care about any of that. We just care about   what properties geometric shapes have that are 
unchanged when you deform them; and by deform I   mean you're allowed to bend it and twist it 
and stretch it as if it's made of an elastic   material, but you're not allowed to break it.
 -(Brady: So a square for example, if we started manipulating) (that it would very quickly not be a square anymore.)
- That's right we have a square right   here, and I could turn it into a circle or more 
or less a circle by just bending it. And I could   also turn it into a triangle. But what I cannot 
do is turn let's say a circle into two circles.   The only way to do this would be to break it 
and then glue it back but that's not allowed.   Similarly I could have a ball and I could turn 
it into a cube. There's a saying that topologists   are people who cannot tell apart donuts from 
coffee mugs so, for example, here is a donut   and here is a coffee mug. I mean they're the same, 
they're the same for us because you could deform   one into the other, they both have this hole 
through them. But what I cannot do is turn the   donut into a ball because the ball doesn't have a 
hole so I don't want to punch a hole in it, that's   not allowed. And while I could do that by taking 
a bite out of the donut, but we topologists are   healthy people, we're not supposed to be eating 
donuts. The objects that we mostly care about   are called manifolds. These are objects that look- 
from any given point they look pretty much like   flat space or n-dimensional hyperspace. What is 
n-dimensional hyperspace? In dimension 1 we   have a line, in dimension 2 we have the plane, 
in dimension 3 we have space; and then you   can think about dimension 4, just add another 
variable say time and that's four dimensional   hyperspace. And you can just add more variables: 
five dimensional and six dimensional and so on;   it's not something that we can visualize but 
we can think of it mathematically anyway and we   can write down equations. 
- (And manifolds sit in this 
space? Or are manifolds the space themselves?)   They can stay- they can sit in the space but they could 
also look like that space around any point. So let   me tell you an example: the surface of the Earth 
is a great example. It's a sphere; more or less, it's   called a geoid, it has mountains and valleys - but 
remember we can all deform them and make it into   a sphere. Topologically it's a sphere; and it sits 
in 3-dimensional space but around any point   it looks like 2-dimensional plane because I can 
move in basically two directions, I can move left   and right and forwards and backwards, there are two 
degrees of freedom. So that's what I'm saying that   the sphere is a 2-dimensional manifold even 
though it lives in 3-dimensional space.    Other examples of 2-dimensional manifolds would 
be the surface of the donut or this famous Klein   bottle, yes, if I live on it again I wouldn't be 
able to tell the difference from- from a plane. Just   like it's very hard to tell the difference between 
a plane and the the Earth, the sphere, from where we   are. To really tell them apart you would have to 
go far away and see that you come back. There are   also 1-dimensional manifolds like this circle 
right here, it's a 1-dimensional manifold. If we   only lived on this- on the circle then we would 
only have one direction in which to move in. And   then there are 3-dimensional manifolds like 
our ordinary space or the universe. Around every   point it looks like we have three dimensions 
to go into, we also have the bottom and top,  uh but we actually don't know the shape of the 
universe. It's a 3-dimensional manifold; it   could be hyperspace but it could be what's called 
a 3-dimensional hypersphere. Perhaps if we go   very high up then we would come back to where 
we are. Nobody has done that but we don't know   if it's possible or not, just like on the surface 
of the Earth when you go around you come back.   So we just know it's a three-dimensional manifold- 
- (Is there no way to test for that? It seems strange)   (that we could not know that even the one we're 
living in, the one we're living and breathing in.)   (Is the only way to test to walk forever and see if I come back?)
- No there are other ways, people are   looking at cosmic microwave background radiation, 
and they they have put forward various theories   about what the shape of the universe is but 
there is no definite theory that everyone   accepts, that it's not yet known what shape it 
is - but there are some hints from the universe.   Okay so we have 3-dimensional objects and 
then we can think about 4-dimensionals and   so on. A good example is this hypersphere; so 
in dimension 1 we have the circle which   is a 1-dimensional manifold and it's the set of 
points at the given distance from the origin. It's   given by the equation x squared plus y squared 
equals 1. Similarly we have the sphere which   is, again, the set of points at distance 1 from 
a given point but it lives in 3-dimensional   space and it's given by the equation x squared 
plus y squared plus z squared equals 1. And   we can generalize this; we can talk about the  
n-dimensional hypersphere which is given by the   equation x1 squared + ... + xn squared 
plus another variable xn plus 1 squared equals   1. It lives in n+1-dimensional 
space and it's an n-dimensional manifold.   Now I'm getting to the crux of the matter: 
the exotic objects. What are exotic objects? These are things that are topologically the same 
but are smoothly different. So there are two ways   of thinking about the formations in topology; I 
showed you before that a circle can be turned   into a square and in the process of course you 
have to make a corner. Now the circle is smooth   and you can turn it into other smooth curves - like 
maybe something like an ellipse - and the process   would be smooth. Now could it be that we have 
two smooth objects and you can deform one into   the other but the only way to do so is by making 
corners somewhere in the middle? Then those objects   would be topologically the same but smoothly 
different. And- I don't know, if you're more familiar   with one of the objects you would say that the 
second one is an exotic copy of the other one.  It's like if you live on the first object and you 
go to the second one it's like going to an exotic   vacation; some things are the same but some things 
are just different. Now how can this be? How can you   have two smooth things but to deform one into the 
other you need to make corners? Here is an example,   we have a figure eight and can I turn it into a 
circle? Well I can I can do so if I make one of   the loops smaller and smaller but at some point I 
have to make a corner and then it becomes a circle. Now that's not actually a good example; because if 
I had a 3rd dimension, if I allow myself to just   lift this up, then it would become a circle just 
smoothly. So this is not a real example of exotic   objects - in fact I cannot show you exotic objects 
because they don't exist in dimensions 1, 2  and 3, in the dimensions that we can easily 
visualize. They only start existing in dimension   4 and higher. The first examples were found in 
1956 by a mathematician called John Milnor and   they were found in dimension 7. They are exotic 
hyperspheres of 7 dimensions. So there is some   object, an exotic sphere, that you can deform into 
the ordinary 7-dimensional sphere but not   smoothly. An exotic sphere is a smooth object that 
I can deform into a sphere. But I cannot deform   it smoothly, I would have to make corners in the 
middle. Let me show you now the numbers of spheres   in each dimension: in dimension 1, 2, 3 there's just 
one, the standard one. The same goes in dimensions   5 and 6. Now in dimension 7 we actually 
have 28 spheres so there's the standard one and   then there are 27 different ones. Then we have 
two spheres in dimension 8; then eight then   six. Then in dimension 11 we have 992 spheres. 
In dimension 12 we have just one, then 2, then  16256 and so on. If you look at this 
sequence of numbers it looks strange, I grant   you that, but there are some patterns. For example 
in dimensions 7, 11, 15 - every four dimensions - you   have- you get a lot more exotic spheres than in 
the other nearby dimensions. One thing you can   ask is, in what dimensions do exotic spheres exist?
And in what dimensions does just the standard one?   We see that there's just one sphere in 
dimensions 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 12; and   also mathematicians figure out the same is true 
in dimensions 56 and 61. 
- (So does that mean if I) (was an object living in a 61-dimensional universe 
it's a little bit more boring than some of the)   (other ones?)
- That's right, yes, these are the boring 
dimensions. You don't have exotic spheres - although   you do have some other exotic objects in these 
dimensions just not spheres.
- (These numbers seem so)   (arbitrary; I assume it's impossible for someone to 
easily explain why it's certain numbers that are)  (boring and other ones that are hyper exotic?)
- These numbers are hard to compute, there's a whole story   involving Bernoulli numbers and homotopy groups 
of spheres. The most interesting thing about them   is that we can compute them in any dimension 
except in dimension 4. That's where I left   a question mark. That's the biggest mystery, it's 
one of the most famous open problems in topology;   it's called the 4-dimensional smooth Poincaré Conjecture which says that there are no   exotic spheres in dimension 4.
- (But we don't know that for sure yet?) 
- We don't know. There are   examples of objects that are smooth and you can 
deform them into the ordinary 4-dimensional   sphere by introducing corners; but people 
don't know if you can do that smoothly or not.   I have also looked for exotic 4-dimensional 
sphere myself and I couldn't find any.   (If you did would you become a very famous mathematician?)
- Absolutely. 
- (Yeah? Is that- is it- it's not)   (like a millennium problem is it or anything- or is it?)
- No there was a similar conjecture in   dimension 3 - the Poincaré Conjecture -
that was the one problem in topology among the   millennium problems. That was solved by 
Perelman in 2003; and I think now the most   famous remaining open problem in topology is this 
one about dimension 4. But it hasn't yet made   it to the list of millennium problems.
- (Professor, don't waste your time making Numberphile videos,)   (you need to go upstairs and solve this problem!) 
- Numberphile videos are important too.  (So why is dimension 4 so difficult?)
- Good question. Well it's more difficult than the lower dimensions - 1, 2, 3 - because in those dimensions we can 
see things and there are also geometric techniques   that mathematicians use to study shapes in these 
dimensions. What's interesting is that it's also   simpler than dimensions 5, 6 and greater; and 
the reason for that is a trick about separating   disks. To explain it, let me say one way in which 
topologists distinguish between shapes. If I have   a lasso and I throw it somewhere on the plane, 
or even on the surface of the Earth which is a   sphere, it would surround a region. So I could just 
contract it into a blob around a little point. But   if I have the same lasso and I would put it 
around a surface- around a hole in a donut   then I wouldn't be able to contract it without 
breaking the donut. And that's one way you can   tell the donut apart from the sphere. So to study 
these objects mathematicians are looking at loops   and how you contract them, and the contraction 
spans a disc. A disc is a 2-dimensional object. And it's easier to study these objects if you can 
split apart the disks so that you can study each   complication one at a time. All right, how can you 
split apart disks? Well let me start with lines. If   I have two lines and they're on the plane and they 
intersect, if I move one a little bit I'm not going   to be able to take it off the other. But I can 
take it off if I allow myself to go into space. The   reason is that 3 is greater than 1+1. Each 
line is a 1-dimensional object, and 1+1  is 2 but I have one extra dimension, and that's 
why I can do it. Similarly, if I'm interested in   separating disks: each disk is a 2-dimensional 
object and 2+2 is 4 so I need one   extra dimension. So in dimensions 5 and higher I 
can separate disks and that just makes topological   objects easier to study. This is called the Whitney 
Trick and it led to the classification of smooth   manifolds in higher dimensions back in the 60s.
- (And this is the problem with dimension 4; you can't-)   (in dimension 4 you haven't got the space what- 
to to break- to separate two discs?)   That's right, we don't have the geometric methods from lower 
dimensions; and we don't have this trick about   separating disks. And that makes dimension 4 the 
hardest to wrap our heads around. To give you an   example of something that's unique to dimension 
4: instead of looking at exotic spheres, let's   look at the exotic hyperspaces. Remember we had the 
line and then the plane and then the space and in   n dimensions we have the hyperspace. So could you 
have an exotic hyperspace? Something that looks   like like a plane or a space and you can deform it 
into the ordinary one but only by making corners?   Here are the numbers of hyperspaces in each 
dimension. In any dimension except 4 there   is just one; there's just a standard one and there 
are no exotic hyperspaces. But in dimension 4   we have infinitely many. In fact, it's more than 
infinitely many, it's uncountably many. It's not   the kind of infinity that you can count - 1, 2, 3 
and so on - it's as many exotic hyperspaces   as there are real numbers. And this doesn't happen 
in any other dimensions. If you have exotic objects   in some other dimensions, you know that there are 
always finitely many of them. There's finitely   many exotic spheres, as I showed you that list 
of numbers. But in dimension 4 you can have   infinitely many exotic objects. And, yeah, that's 
what makes dimension 4 so fascinating.  (Does this mean dimension 4 is something that you should 
be spending more time on because it's so special)  (or is this a sign that maybe this is a bit of 
an aberration that you should leave alone? It's)   (a place where you shouldn't play?)
- That depends on your perspective. There are mathematicians   who work on the other dimensions, and there are 
mathematicians that work on dimension 4. I'm   in the latter category.
- (Because quite often when I speak to number theorists and they talk)  (to me about prime numbers, and they're showing me 
some interesting property of prime numbers, they)   (very often discard 2. They say we're not going to 
use 2 because that's an aberration and it ruins)   (everything. It ruins all our laws and principles 
and that and they just throw it aside. It sounds)   (like the 4th dimension is your equivalent.)
- That's pretty much it. In many theorems you say   this is happening in all dimensions except 4 and 
we understand what's happening, and we just don't   know what's happening in dimension 4. But I 
find that interesting and worthy of study.