- This is a fully
functional Xbox Series X. So I think it is time to
finally play some games. So I've been using early preview unit of the Xbox Series X for a few days now. And while the full review
will certainly have to wait. So make sure you're subscribed. There is a lot to talk about here. So I have spent time back in
February playing some games on the Series X, including
a version of Minecraft. That is a demo with ray tracing. Now ray tracing is of
course one of the features on both the Series X and the PS5. While this particular gameplay is certainly very much a beta. We don't actually know
if it will ever ship, but if you look at
something like Minecraft for RTX, you can see that there's
a ton of potential here. We've also seen Gears 5 running at above ultra PC spec,
at 4K 60 on the Series X and a number of different
gameplay trailers and bits and pieces that hopefully will be shipping before the end of the
year or the end of next year or at just at some point in our lives. However, today I have a handful of games that I can actually play today that are fully functional on the Series X. So let's take a look
because there's definitely some very interesting things here. So first of all, I have Forza Horizon 3. So this is the game that
came out back for the Xbox One and it subsequently did
get a patch for the One X. So it's running in full 4K. But if I want I can hop out to go into a game like Gears of War. This is an original Xbox 360 game from a the way back in 2006. And because it does have
not only the Xbox One X patch, which means that it is gonna
run at the higher resolution. As you can see, the performance
is absolutely flawless. One of the nice things about this, is that no matter what you wanna play, you essentially can
play it on the Series X. So of course, all Series S
and X games are compatible. The vast majority of Xbox
One games are compatible and you also have 360 games as
well as original Xbox games. If you could play it on an older Xbox pretty much everything can be okay, let me rephrase you can't play everything everything, but you can play the vast
majority of Xbox titles than have ever been made on the Series X. - All of the good ones. - Okay, there's a couple- yeah, all the good ones,
yeah, it's pretty fair. So depending on the game
you'll get some base level of added performance. So first of all, load times
are going to be better across the board and
I'll talk a little bit about that in a second. But beyond that if a game
has dynamic resolution, the extra headroom on the CPU and the GPU of the Series X is always unlocked. So you should be always at like 4K or whatever the max that the game supports and same thing goes for the frame rate. If there's any kind of unlocked frame rate if you were maybe 40 or 50
FPS on a game on the Xbox One or the One X that should
pretty much always be at 60, just because there's so much
more power in the Series X. Alternatively, in the
case of a game like Gears, which has actually seen the Series X patch, for that, you're getting
those higher graphics settings and specifically the ability
to run at higher frame rates. So the Series X does support
120 FPS right out of the box. And Gears 5 for example, will be able to allow you to do 120
FPS in the multiplayer. But from what I've heard, it actually is fairly straightforward if you have a game running on Xbox One, to unlock a higher frame
rate without having to do a ton of work to the rest of the game. So we may see some hybrid titles where there are full Series X releases, there are just Xbox One games running in backwards compatibility. And then you could have essentially the same game that you
were running on Xbox One, just running at double the frame rate. Which if that's possible,
would be very, very cool. Now let's take a look at a few games that haven't been optimized
for the Series X at all beyond the more powerful
CPU and graphics, of course, there's that standard SSD. So if you load up a
copy of Forza Horizon 3, it's not even close. Where the Series X gets into the game in just over 10 seconds,
the one X takes 45 seconds. And the One X is even
slower at 53 seconds. If you load up Halo 5, 
which is of course an earlier release from
2015 for the Xbox One. Again, it is absolutely no contest. The Series X loads up the level
in just under nine seconds. And that's including there's a five second
deployment countdown. Interestingly, the One S is actually a little bit faster here than the One X at 26 seconds compared to 33. But regardless another
very clear win for the Series X. The biggest test here though
really is Red Dead Redemption 2. Now this is a game that pretty much taxes the current consoles to the
max kinda it's like GTA 5 taxed to the Xbox 360 and the PS3
when it first came out. And because of that, the
load times specifically are very, very slow. Throw it on the Series X
though, and it is much better. It's still not blisteringly
fast at 37 seconds. When you consider that's a full minute faster than what you get on
the One S or the One X. I think it's pretty clear that with literally no optimization just having that SSD and
the more powerful CPU, you're seeing a pretty decent upgrade. Just for fun, I wanted to try out how fast an Xbox 360 game would load. So I chose Gears of War 1. Now this is a game which was much simpler and was meant to run on a disc. So even the SSD in the Series X while it makes a difference,
isn't a massive difference. Although a few seconds
is still a few seconds. I even tried original
Xbox game, Fusion Frenzy but well, all three consoles
loaded it up almost instantly. So didn't really feel like
that was worth testing. Now this is just a taste of the improvements that you can expect loading
games on the Series X with that standard SSD it's
going to help all games, period. But especially when you consider
that you can have a game which is a little bit better optimized for the Velocity Architecture and get significantly better performance with the compressed speed on the SSD. You should actually expect
to see Xbox Series X games that are fully built for the
console to load even faster. Something else that all games
get for free is Quick Resume. So right now I'm playing Forza Horizon 3, just like I was before, and if I want, I can hop out and jump into Gears of War and you will see that because
I've already loaded up with Quick Resume, it's
going to jump me right in. So I don't have to wait
for the entire game to load or anything like that. It, after just a few
seconds, gets right in. So one of the nice things about as I die Quick Resume, is that it
will actually load multiple games at the same time. So now I'll go ahead and jump in. You can see little Quick
Resume, little icon show up. I can jump into Red Dead 2. So this is not infinite, you can't just load every single game of all time. You can load more older games because they take up less memory because essentially this is all just being loaded off of the SSD. You can see I'm playing Red Dead. Oh, I'm done with Red Dead. I'm gonna jump into Fusion Frenzy. And even though this is
an original Xbox game it is still supported here. If you give it just a
second, I will be right in the middle of the
game where I left off. So Quick Resume is something that is still being tweaked and optimized. But as you can see right now, I can jump between four or
five games really easily. And it's all completely seamless. You don't have to think about it. You can turn it off if
you want, for some reason you can still quit the game
if you wanna get out of it and start a fresh. But it's nice to have
this pretty much just always running in the background. I feel like that's one of the things that this next generation of consoles is really gonna provide
is a sense of fluidity. Things just happen really fast. You don't have to sit around
and wait for three minutes for your game to load, moving
back and forth between them. Everything is just gonna
happen much quicker. We're gonna get used to it really quick. So technically this is not final hardware for the Xbox Series X, however,
concerning that it works and it is fully functional. We're just gonna say that it's
close enough for right now. Oops, that's not supposed to be here. We're just gonna censor this, this doesn't, this doesn't exist. Let's take a little bit
of a closer look at. So first of all, it is dense. So I actually don't know how much it weighs, but it is a, it's not light. The Series X is... 4.4 kilos. Or in freedom units, 9.1
wait, nine pounds, 13 ounces. It's like a baby, a big heavy baby. So you'll see that it is
significantly like thicker, but when you actually look at it, it doesn't actually take
up that much more space. It's more just sort of the
footprint than anything else. So I can confirm that
the Series X is in fact, the thickest Xbox of all time. So if we take a quick
look around the Series X, you'll see that it is very
similar to that dummy model that we unboxed a little while ago. So we have our Bluray drive up front as well as our console pair button, a USB-A port as well as the power button, nothing on the sides. However, as you come around back you'll see we have our two more USB-A ports for a total of three, Ethernet,
the figure eight power cable, the expansion module which is where you will
plug in the memory cards or the storage, whatever,
the memory cards. And you also have HDMI 2.1 out. So interestingly you can see
that there's definitely some sort of grills on the bottom
as well as on the side. And just like we've
showed in our teardown, all of that heat is
pulled up through the top and exhausted through the fan on top where of course this
little dish is not an LED unlike what it looks
like in all the videos. And then there's the
controller, so at first glance the Series X controller, it
looks identical to the Xbox One. However, it's been pretty much tweaked and tuned in basically all areas. So the shape is now slightly different to accommodate different sizes of hands. You have a new textured finish you have an upgraded D-pad, better latency. You also have a share button but if you wanna know
more about the controller check out the video we did
over on our second channel This Is where we go much more in depth on the various different controllers that you can use on the Xbox and what not and make sure to stay
tuned to the channel here because there's a lot,
a lot more to talk about with the Xboxes and the Playstations over the next couple of months. You're subscribed, right?