- I'm going head to head
with my buddy JayzTwoCents to see who can build the
best gaming PC for $750. The catch? We're at our fine sponsor Micro Center's brand new Indianapolis location. Jay, are you ready to lose? - Yes. (Austin laughs) - The rules are simple. Whoever can build the best gaming PC when it comes to price to performance in a few benchmarks is going to win the competition. The first thing I wanna do, we have a little bit of time before people actually come in the store, so I can actually properly scout. Look, Jay knows how to build
really nice high-end systems, but that's not what this is about. This is about rolling your sleeves up, getting your hands dirty, and making some questionable decisions in the hope that you can
win on a technicality. Oh, look at this. Okay, you know what I'm
gonna do is I'm just gonna go ahead and just grab one of these. $25 for an Inland Prime one terabyte SSD. Now this is one of these deals that you can only get in store right now, but you are not gonna
find a better SSD for $25. Can I just give you a little
disclaimer real quick? Don't really necessarily
build what I'm building. I'm not building this for anything else other than to rub Jay's face in the idea that I'm better
at building PCs than him. Option number one is to go cheap on my CPU. Ryzen 5 3600 plus motherboard will still give me a large
budget for the graphics card. However, that is going to
be perfectly serviceable and probably a good sort of balance. But that is a slightly older CPU. I'm going to lose that
on that CPU benchmark almost for sure. That being said, if I can dominate Jay
on the graphics side, that's gonna be a worthwhile trade. Let me try to find my
non-important components. Lemme see how much money I can save with like power supply and
case and that kind of stuff. And then I can look at the exact budget that I'll have to it to allocate. 32 gigs of RipJaws for $25? So I'm gonna commit to doing DDR4, so that's fine. I'm not gonna spend
the extra money on DDR5 versus split this. So 25 bucks for 32 gigs of
Ram and it's also 3200. Ah, Jay. For a dude who knows how to build PCs, I felt like he's poking
his head around the corner an awful lot to see what I'm doing. There's actually a good selection
of different components. In fact, actually look up here. There's even more. They got... Oh, they got 68... Oh dude, I want to get a 6800, but there's no way I can do 475. Could I do a $475 graphics
card in a $750 system? - [Ken] Case is optional, right? - That's a good idea, Ken. I'm not gonna buy a case. So for power supply, it's probably recommended to do like a 650 watt and then that's why I need
a 1200 watt power supply because I want 80 plus titanium-- - More power supply power means more CPU power. - More power, baby. Mo powa babeh. Okay, so I have two choices here. For $64, for an open box, I can get a B450-A Prime. This does have both the Ryzen
3000 and 5000 stickers on it. So I assume that's fine, or I could go a...
[suspenseful noise] - Hey, so I wanna run something by. - Yeah, what's good? - How do you feel about making
things more interesting? - What's your idea? - For every dollar you
come in under budget, you get a 1% increase in your score. - Jay's curve ball means
that if I spend $650 instead of $750, I get a full doubling
of my performance tally. So I get a 100% improvement. Or if I spend $550, I get a 200% improvement. Is this a whole lot of math
for a quick YouTube video? Yes it is, but at the end of the day what this means is that Jay and I are
massively incentivized to spend as little as possible. All right. - It's a deal, my friend.
- All right. So I'm gonna go with the Ryzen 5 3600. This is a decent CPU, but importantly it's gonna
be good for the money and it comes with the cooler. Okay, I'm gonna do this. I'm also gonna go for the board. So this is an A520, it's $70. But importantly when I
bundle these two together, I get a $20 discount. The real test is gonna be how low do I go on my graphics card and I gotta go low. You know what my case is? This box in my case. - Ooh, an open box ARC. Oh... Oh dude, 200 bucks. I'm gonna get that before he gets it. I think that's actually my move. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, this is gonna be it. I don't think there's a better price
to performance card here. 'Cause if you go that much cheaper, you're gonna be losing so much more. I think this is my move. Okay. So we have flown to Indianapolis to help celebrate
Micro Center's launch of their brand new Indianapolis store. And for this, not only are we building these gaming PCs utilizing a ton of the
really great in-store deals they've got going on right now. But on top of that, we're also going to be
giving these PCs away. So there happen to be just
a couple people who swung by and everyone who's here is
eligible to win the gaming PCs. - Okay, so we'll we'll go
through the parts of this here. We'll start with the little stuff. The stuff we think
probably are gonna match. So SSD? - SSD. I mean, obviously Inland Prime. - Yeah, 24.99, one terabyte drive. - You cannot--
- Gen three. I think that this build, the price point we were at, Gen four made no sense. - No.
- Save five bucks. And that five bucks is now 5%. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, and I mean $25 is
an absolute no brainer. - This isn't an ad, this is like a real deal. - Should we do Ram? 'Cause I thinks maybe
we've got the same Ram. RipJaws? - 24.99.
- Yeah, you can't beat this. - 24.99, 32 gigabyte
kit of DDR4, CL16 3200. I think next we should
go with the motherboard because now--
- Motherboard. - No, no, no, okay. Sorry, sorry, power supply. - Power supply. Yeah, you're not gonna
like my power supply. So I got the next best thing. The white Thermaltake 500 for 41.99. - I went with the 650 watt-- - Oh, 74.9-- - No, that's not what it cost. Okay, so this is where
now we're gonna start feeling the separation.
- Yeah. - Okay, I will go first on motherboard. - Motherboard, okay, yeah. - And it's funny the board that you went
with 'cause I just saw it. - Yeah.
- I was considering it. So I went with a B450 and now the consideration I had here was, okay, it's B450, but we know we wanna go
with 5000 series CPU. So I was worried about BIOS, but the fact that it says
it's already 5000 ready tells me the BIOS is new enough. But I looked at that exact A520 and they're gonna see it in the video. - So 70 bucks for this guy. - So anyway, there is a
combo deal with 20 bucks off if you get a motherboard and a CPU. We decided we're just... We're not going to include the combo, we're just gonna go with the MSRP prices.
- The actual prices. - Okay our last-- - CPU, CPU, CPU. - I have a feeling we are definitely different on this one. - We are most certainly different. - All right, what do you got? - Ryzen 5 3600. - Oh see, I considered that. - Yeah?
- I did consider that. - I went with a 5500. - Oh, that's actually-- - Six core, 12 thread. Newer generation Ryzen processor cores. - How much was that? - 89? - What? No, it's not.
- Yes, it is. 89.99. I had to confirm with Jason. - Oh, well, I got at Ryzen 5 3600 for $80 'cause I thought that was $100. - [Jay] I have to hope this is 10% faster than that in Cinebench and Geekbench. - Actually, you know what? I think it's actually probably about 10%. - The Zen 2.5 to Zen 3
was a huge jump in IPC-- - What's your clock speed? This guy goes 4.2. - Well, 4.2 is the max boost. 3.6 base. - Oh, so it's exact same. So it's pure-- - I can overclock it. - Again, we've established I am not gonna do anything
related to overclocking today. If I can get 5% more in
performance out of it by just changing a multiplier. - Okay, all right. Let's do GPU. - Yes and I have a funny
story about this one. - Okay, would you like to go first? Because I feel like I always go first. - Okay, so I have an open box A750. - [Austin] What the... What? There were two of them? - No, I opened it to inspect it which made it open box and they printed me a label for it so that we could make it fair. (audience laughs) - I think he's cheating, but this is the kind of
cheating that I support. This is like kind of
the spirit of the game. What do you have for your case? - I have a sneaky suspicion
you don't have one. - Whatever would make you think that? - Now I feel like that's
technically cheating only because one of the
things that makes it a build is the fact that you
have the main components. - [Austin] I have a case. - [Jay] Okay, a cardboard
box is not a case. - I have a home for my components. - So anyway, this was an
mATX Cooler Master Q300L, it was 34 bucks. It's literally the cheapest
case they have here and it's micro ATX. So my entire build had
to hinge on micro ATX. So I chose this case first, and then chose a platform
that would work on micro ATX. So it fits in here. That way at the end of
the day when I beat you, it'll still look nicer. - [Austin] Here's the thing though. How are you gonna beat me? Think about it. You just spent an additional third, that's 35% off. My system is almost the same and I'm way cheaper. How are you gonna-- - [Jay] What was your total cost? - $441. - [Jay] So I'm 529. - I've got a 100%... You have to double my score to win. - May the best man win. - I'll be done in about
five minutes. (laughs) - It would probably take you... No. Do you know how to build a computer? - So I put... Is this the... (upbeat music) - I'm hoping Austin's
doesn't catch on fire considering it's in a box. - I really want Austin to win-- - [Austin] Yeah!!! - Only because this is
very on brand for him. - Definitely think Jay's gonna win 'cause he can overclock. - I want the jankiness of Austin's to win, but also I kind of wanna
see him a little sad. So I'm gonna root for Jay. - I think Austin's gonna
win on technicality. - Austin's got a pretty good one. You know, he's got the cosmetics, the airflow, open case. Jay's got a nice design though. - I did expect Austin to
be a little taller though, so.
- Same. (audience laughs) - All right, so here's the thing. I feel very confident right now that I'm gonna win in
the price to performance. The only thing that could get me is if the aesthetics aren't on point. So I'm going to carefully
modify this box-- - [Jay] As if there's any
chance of the aesthetics being on point at all. - You know what? I like the enthusiasm over here. I'm gonna make this thing sweet. Look, I've already got the back, so it's gonna keep the
graphics card nice and set. I want this to be able to close easily. Am I gonna have any structural rigidity? No, in fact, I... I'm gonna have to cut this part off, but it's fine. I want this to actually
be not a 100% scuffed, just like 80% scuffed. (Austin clapping) - [Speaker] Are you done? - [Jay] Is this your first
time you've built something? You're so proud. (audience laughs) - I can't believe I'm about to say this-- - Wait, wait.
- I don't know if I've ever been prouder of a PC I built. - [Jay] Look how gentle he has to be. Don't trip on your cord. - Can we just get a quick check? Who here thinks that Jay
built a better looking system? (audience applauds) - Woo.
- Woo. - [Austin] And what about mine? - Woo.
- Woo. (audience applauds) - That's pretty close. - That was way closer
than I expected it to be. - Okay. There's a magnetic dust... There you go. There you go. - No, ironically there are
no intake fans on this. - But it looks nicer now. - It does look nice. And you could fit two 140s in the front. So I flipped the power supply fan, so it's feeding or getting
air from inside the chassis as an exhaust. And we were gonna put the
rear fan on the front, so at least we had some cross flow. - Yeah. - The issue is this particular motherboard doesn't have a single fan header on that side of the board, so the cable wouldn't have reached. - Great.
- So a little drawback to that particular design. - But, you get a window? - We have a... Yeah, and what's cool about this case is it can be upright, and it's got feet on the side panel so you can also put it as a... You know, lay it down flat. - My system doesn't do any of that. It just-- - You can technically lay
it any way you want but-- - As long as they stay together. So I'm very proud of this. I'm very happy for the record. If you open up, you see here that we've got some impeccable cable management. So we got ourselves the 20 + 4 as well as our single four pin CPU because it doesn't even need eight pins because whatever. Then once you close it up, which you'll see, is that it expertly is nice and neat and because it doesn't
have a power button, I have easy access to jump it using my easy access point. - You don't even have a-- - No, no, no. - There's no service amount of buttons-- - This comes with an iFixit kit to jump your computer every time. - Yeah, because you know other pins nearby are not a problem. - No, but is there anything here that could be a flammable fire hazard? - Yes. - Or a potential electrical issue? - Yes.
- Oh, it's like the apartment all over again. (audience laughs) - [Austin] You know what? You're disqualified. (audience laughs) Okay.
- All right, here we go. Where's the power button? - Hey.
- Okay, it turned on. - No, no, that's the first one. This is the first one. Now do we get actual signal?
- Okay, it looks like we had a... We do have a standby--
- We have a standby light. - Is that monitor good? - I have no idea. I've never used the setup. I'm assuming this came off of it. Let's see if you--
- Okay, let's come over to my side. Okay, where'd I put my IFixit kit? I'm sorry, my power button. Okay.
- Your power button? - Did you get the big one? - We're gonna flip the
switch on my power supply. Nothing's on fire. I don't have USB unlike you. All right, here goes nothing. Woo. Okay, we got power. We got power. Okay. - You're on standby for the monitor. So that's good. - Fans are spinning across the board. Come on, come on, come on. (audience laughs) - Oh, oh. - Yep, you got a blue light. - Yes. That was the longest post of my life. So now that our systems are built, the next step is to get Windows installed, drivers, all that kind of fun stuff. And while I'm shocked and amazed that my system pretty much
works first try no issues, Jay has spent the last hour, first, troubleshooting the fact that he had a dead stick of Ram and then he tried to
overclock his GPU by 200% and it kept crashing. Well, why don't we start with 3DMark-- - Okay fine-- - It's already up, okay. Yours is 11,704. Mine, 11,232. - Going backwards now with GPU. Superposition. - Superposition. So mine is 14,839. - Oh, mine's 14,727. - Moving on to Geekbench. - Geekbench. - 8,008. - 7,522. - Cinebench? - 9,224. - 10,270. Okay, we're gonna math this up and then we're gonna give these away. - Yeah, who wants a PC? - Woo.
- Woo. (audience applauds) - [Austin] You probably want Jay's though. - [Jay] No, wait, wait. Who wants Austin's? - Woo.
- Woo. - [Jay] There was a delay. No one wanted to go first. - [Austin] Who wants Jay's? - Woo.
- Woo. - Because they can carry it away. - Who wants my PC and then go to the back
and buy a new case for it? - Woo.
- Woo. - [Austin] There we go. - There you go.
- There we go. Okay, what is the final tally? - [Ken] Okay, so Jay, 143,000. - So 143,000. - That multiplier really added up. - For my system, we've got-- - [Ken] 174,000. - Wow, that's actually
closer than a I thought it was gonna be.
- It's actually not that bad. Good fight, my friend. While we give these away, subscribe to the channel and ringling the dingling button and check out all of our
components including my-- - Did you say the dingling button? - Yeah, you don't--
- Demonetized. - You already did that and so-- - I didn't do it. - Subscribe and ringling
the dingling button. Also, check out the wonderful
parts in this system, the link's in the description. Micro Center doesn't
probably recommend you to build it like this, but if you wanna also buy
like a case or something, they sell those too. Let's give away some PCs. (audience cheers)