- This is take one of
August 18th Mystery Tech. (clapper board claps) - [Matt] Austin, what do you got there? No, no, no, what do ya got there? - This? - [Matt] Yeah. - This is the clapper board. - [Matt] Look at how ratty
and out of date it is. - Yeah, this piece of paper - [Matt] It looks awful. - This piece of paper
is about five years old, but it's been on like every
shoot for the last five years. So we can sync it up perfectly. Oh, it's already open. - [Matt] Well, sort of. I
just had to see what it was. - So you've pre-unboxed
a Mystery Tech item, wow! - [Matt] Sometimes I like to
get a little sneaky peaky. - Sometimes one of the items falls out of the box by accident, and it rolls into my apartment. - Interesting. - A lot of packaging here,
and there's also a marker. Oh, is this a new slate? - [Matt] Why would you even think that? - Okay. It's E-Ink? Wait, that's way over the top! But most important thing with
any slate, how does it sound? (slate clicking) - [Ken] Cute. - No, no, no, no! - [Matt] That is adorable. - Matt, would you like to fill us in? How much is the TRIBE7? - I wanna say like 300 bucks. - Oh, that's actually not as
much as I thought it'd be. Like slates can cost a thousand bucks. - No, no, no, but those
slates actually have like time code and stuff, this is - [Ken] Does this have time code? - [Matt] Oh, uh-uh-uh. - What's the point? (Ken laughing) - I thought it was smart! - Alright, so here's a template. Hold your device near the slate. Oh, wait, wait, wait, hold on,
this is actually kinda cool. Oh, alright! You know what? I take back some of
the mean things I said. - [Ken] Overclock Media, look at that! - Probably should have
inverted it, but there we go. We're now ready for our next
segment of Mystery Tech. (slate clacking) (box whooshing and thudding) (Austin cheering) This looks expensive. - [Ken] It is. Robosen "Transformers,
more than meets the eye." (box thudding) (Ken chuckles) What the (quack) is that? (box thudding) What? So this one's $700. What's this one? And what's the giant one? - [Alex] The small one
you have in your hand is the Bumblebee version. That's a robot. It doesn't transform, but it's still like, it does all the robot kind of stuff. - Oh, okay. - That's $400. - And what is this nonsense
Roboraptor knockoff? - [Alex] He is $1,700 and will be released sometime in the fall. - Can I just say thank you to Robosen for providing these samples for review? Because if these guys had
actually spent $3,000 on robots, I would've transformed
into a (dolphin cackle) - [Ken and Kinsey] Whoa, whoa, whoa. - [Alex] There is a transformer that can turn into [censored]. - Oh really? - Yeah - Oh, how convenient. I need that one. Look at that. Look how
cool this box looks. It's all like transforming
from black to purple. Whoa. God, I feel like I am the
least qualified person on earth to do this right now. Okay. - Speaking for all the
Transformers nerds out there. - Yeah.
- They're foaming at the mouth that you have these and you don't care. - I, that's why I feel bad. Let's take a look at
Bumblebee first. Ah, okay. - Hey, that's kind of neat. - Alright - Optimus Prime is, wait, what? Oh, you actually have to assemble him. - Wait, no, he's in his truck mode. - Oh, he's already in truck mode. I see. It's like, this is definitely
gonna be sitting like at like a comic shop or something. It's gonna be sitting on the
top shelf collecting dust for like years until some nerd walks in and buys it for like five grand. Behold. My friends. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh For context, he a big boy. So I believe that we are ready to begin. I have downloaded an app for each of them. So let's start out with
Bumblebee. Connect. - Bluetooth connected. - Is it that easy? You just download the
app and just connect it. I didn't even need to make
an account or anything. Yes. So I've got remote
control, create, action, download center, and mini
theater. Let's do mini theater. - [Ken] The intricacy in the movements is so good. - So I think I have like weapons for him. I should have probably put in his hands. Oh yo, what? My dude. - I do anything to protect my friends. - I wouldn't, can I just
mention Bumblebee is just in his idle animation right now. - He's chilling. - He's just chilling. So we've got the same thing; Missions, remote control,
actions. Let's do missions. - [Ken] What? 
- [Kinsey] Yo! - Oh, whoa. We gotta try the big guy. We gotta try Grimlock now. If that's how cool Optimus Prime is. Okay. We're about to transform him. Ready? - Oh my. - Oh. - It's extinction time. - He's got so much detail. Holy. - Alright. - He is now armed. Let's do it. (laser gun shooting) You're dead now. So, sorry. You're, you're all, you're all gone. It's the moment we've all
been waiting for, Roboraptor versus this poser, this defender of the robo sword dudes. - Roboraptor, okay
buddy, you got this okay. You got 'em on the ropes.
You just gotta take 'em. Ah, gotta watch out behind you. Watch you behind you,
he's transforming. No! - It's extinction time. (all laughing) - Maybe we'll live to
fight another day my dude. Okay, is that my Taco Bell hat? And that's my, wait, okay. What is going on? Wait. - Okay - I did not realize what
this was when you threw it, I thought it was a light 'cause it says like RGB on it, but
also says it's two watt, but it's a, it's a head. Oh! Is this just a mannequin head? Boy. Alright, we're gonna plug this in, and - You just change the color. - If you two would like
your own weird IKEA disembodied, glowing head 'cause that's a item that's popular enough
to live at IKEA. Have fun. I 75% caught the Walkman,
I've got a lot of questions. And I think we're gonna go
on this journey together. What the hell is APE, that's
a supported format is APE. - Oh that, is that - That's, so it's, it's
proprietary audio compression under the Monkey Audio
source code license. - Get it, ape, it's a monkey - Which was like, I think Sony was really the only
company that used it. What? - My boy, ready to listen
to some music with me. Alright, let's take a look.
Oh, it's actually, okay, well I ripped the package immediately. This is actually really tiny.
So my first question is, why the hell do you want this? But this is significantly smaller than even something like
my beloved iPhone Mini. I mean, you can see the
Mini's not a big phone but this thing is absolutely tiny. So we've got a ton of buttons on the side. We've got power button, volume up, volume down, play, pause, forward, back. We've got a little hold button.
Wow. Device is starting. So it's a proper little
Android guy. That's cute. So you've got Chrome, the
Play Store, a big ol' widget and a bunch of wiggly wiggly bits. Alright, so I'm gonna listen
to this on my CD900ST's. - My CD900ST's - Ken's CD900ST's that he
used my credit card to buy. So this is Daft Punk in
hi-res, lossless audio. Okay. So I mean, obviously a huge chunk of what I'm listening to
right now are the headphones, which I have listened
to these in the past. They're very nice. But hi-res
lossless audio is great. I'll actually play with
some of the modes though. Alright, so the vinyl processor is on. Yeah, that vinyl processor
actually sounds nice. It like warms up the music, ♪ There is a game of love,
there is a game of love ♪ If you're an audiophile,
there's a lot to like with some of the stuff
that you can do here. - Three hundred and forty nine bucks. - Okay, Hmm. I think this
is one of those things that's a little bit of
an irrational purchase. You do not need a Walkman. No
one needs a Walkman in 2023. - I do. - Besides Ken. But you're buying into this because you want to experience music in a different way versus your phone and Bluetooth headphones
like everyone else. Okay. This is small. I like it. Small things are my thing. Hmm. I like, smaller thing. Um. (loud beep) Anyway, this is the, Ortomi.
This is totally 3D printed. Like you can literally see
the layers of the 3D printer. So we've got a USB-C port,
we've got a little switch. And then an LED. Is
this just like a little 3D printed friend? - You need those? - I do, 'cause I have to pay
all my friends right now. Well, let's plug our little
guy in and see what happens. Do I need to read the manual? 'cause my little dude's not turning on. I mean, there's a red light.
It's clearly doing something. Okay. I'll read the owner's guide. Congratulations on adopting
your very own Ortomi. Use the switch located at
the back, to turn it on. Switch to the right or off. So I'm gonna switch to the right. Okay. It doesn't, it doesn't
tell me why is he not on? Hey little buddy. You're trying to tell me that my new friend is not even here. This is the Ortomi, oh. Wait, what? We already did this one. - But - But what? It didn't work. - Correct. - So you bought another one? - Until now. - Alright, let's fire it up, and it works. Alright, what's up Ortomi?
How, how do I do this? Oh, I can pet him. Okay. - Okay. Okay. - That was aggressive. - Well, well, yeah. What, what do you - I'm petting my Ortomi. - That's not - Oh he's dizzy. I pet him
too hard. Oh I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Oh, look, he's happy now. I'm not sure how he knows this,
but he's, he's very happy. - He ticklish? - Tickle, tickle, tickle. Oh,
he likes it. Oh, he likes, oh. - Oh no. Oh. Oh no. - Oh. Oh. He's reading now. What the? - He likes that a little
too much from behind. - You know what? Here on Mystery Tech, we learn a lot of things. We learn that some things are mysterious some things are tech. Some things work and some things don't. And I think I accidentally made that sound like a Dr. Seuss rhyme.
But we're gonna roll with it. Sony, is this the PS6? - Nah it's a little small for the PS6. - Is it the PS6 Slim? - No. - Oh, I know what this is.
This is the Mocopi thing? - Yes. - Okay. Which, there's a bunch of sensors that allows you to Vtube. Is
that a good way to describe if I described anything so far? - Well I think you can just generally describe them as motion trackers. And then - Yep - The application could vary depending on what you want to do. - So, you open it up and it's
got some little trackers. So we've got a head, hip, left right wrist, left right ankle. So that seems pretty straightforward. Oh, okay. And then like, I
mean, it guess makes sense. Got little straps so you can strap up and get yourself virtualized.
How much is this? Do you know? - So this is $449. - Oh - But - Oh, that's lots of money. - Well it is and it isn't. - Okay - So compared to something
like, you know full Vive VR you know, sets that do full body tracking. This is actually a cheaper alternative, it undercuts at least by half. - Pair each sensor with your
smartphone via Bluetooth. - These trackers are quite nice. They're magnetic and they
just kind of snap into place. So, yep, that is correct. So we're gonna pair with the first sensor. So you're gonna have to pair
six devices to your phone. - Yeah. - But it also happens pretty quick too. - Okay. This is probably the most seamless Bluetooth
experience I've ever had. There we go. Okay. We are connected. Update the firmware. Oh
no, we'll be right back 'cause that's a lot of
loading bars to go through. Okay. So head sensor going on. I don't think this is really
meant to be used with jeans, I'll just tell you 'cause
it feels like it's quite, - Yeah you really should put
'em on the inside but whatever. - Yeah. Okay. Hey, calibrated. Okay, cool. Aye, aye, aye, aye yo,
aye yo you're lookin' what sorry, that's, that's me. - So in theory, if you step
over here, so we can actually - Oh, there. - Yeah, so you're,
you're like right there. So if you do the action,
it's like you're there. So we can just pretend that, you know Austin is like kind of just the character. - I have no idea. I can't see anything, but I'm assuming it looks really cool. - It actually kind of does and
the AR works pretty well too. It even adds a shadow in the background. - Ah, no, don't, get off of
me. No, this is too much. - We having smooches? - No, if you don't love
me for the real me, you don't get to love
me for the virtual me. - Okay. - Is this our first fight? - You're damn right. You
know, I haven't felt anything for minutes, in my heart. - Oh, now you know how I feel. - This is unacceptable, I'm leaving. - Oh, just go back to your mother's - That actually kinda worked. - Here, if you want, if
you wanna watch it back? - No, I don't, I don't
actually wanna watch that.