- Here is 100 boxes of RC cars and we also bought a
bunch of Mega RC cars. And we're gonna take all these RC cars tied to a real car and move
that car using only RC cars. We're gonna see if this
car can pull a five-pound. It can. Now let's see if it can pull 10 pounds. Come back here, car. And that was just one car. We have an army of cars
and an army of little cars and we're gonna see if it
can actually pull a real car because RC cars lives matter too. Right here is one RC car
and we have an army of 'em and to make things a little simpler, they're all hooked up together
and this man did it all so I'm gonna let him
do a little explaining because he did most of this work and it's actually really
helpful what he did for us. - So these are 1/24-Scale
Tempers made by ECX. They're all hooked up in a
line, they're made to crawl, they're made to have horsepower, they're made to carry themselves
over really rough terrain and we're gonna see if they
can carry a whole full-size car later on this evening. - Yes, we have an army of 'em. We're gonna tie all the RC cars to this which is tied to this car and hopefully the RC
cars can move this car. So one of these things have
six little RC cars on them. - Here's 12 and 18. - You're lucky you moisturized. - You know what's funnier than 24? - 25. - We're not car guys so I think this one's a Ferrari. This one looks like a toaster. What do you got there? - I've got a few boats. - Oh, dude. Nice boats. What's this? It looks like a canoe. - It's definitely a Jeep. It actually says it's a Jeep.
- It actually says it's a Jeep. We're known for destroying Jeeps. I'm sorry, Jeep. Not gonna lie, I got a feeling this car could pull the car all by itself. I mean, this one looks like a Trooper. All right, guys, this is
our army of cars, RC cars, and we're gonna see if
it can pull that car. Show 'em our army. You haven't seen stuff like this since Caesar Augustus was a thing. Remember how they used
to race with chariots back in medieval times? Now we do it with toy cars. Put in... men screaming and, like, epic music or don't put that in, just put what I had in and it sound weird or just follow me around,
you know, that's cool too. Get away from me. Oh, you wanna go? Stalker. For those of you wondering, this car has over 300,000 miles on it hence why I bought my stepdad
a car using only pennies. There's a few dollars there. - I got a new car! - This car is a piece of crap,
it's literally worth nothing and we're gonna recycle
it after this video so we're probably gonna damage it but we're going to recycle it, like, it literally has so many issues. It's not worth it. - There's a dent right there. - Wait, I can fix that. I didn't fix it. - You gotta do it like this. - Dude, it's actually smaller. Do it again. I looked at this and a scary
monster looked back at me. - Wait, but it's a mirror, wouldn't you have just seen yourself? - Oh, got 'em. - You wanna go, man? This is the second time today, man. All right, so if you're
wondering what we're doing, we're trying to make the car lighter so the RC cars can actually pull it. We're doing everything we
can to take weight out of it. Look at this, a water bottle? Psh. Man, if I wouldn't have gotten this, we might not have been
able to pull it, right? - Hey, that's my water bottle. - Oh, is it? - Yeah, that's what you
get for starting a fight. Don't mess with me. - Hey, you know what I
think about your bottle? I think I'm gonna recycle it
'cause I care about the earth. - One thing we can do
to make this car lighter is get rid of all these
bottles of Flex Seal. This is for a different
video, spoiler alert. I bought, like, 100 cans of Flex Seal. - Aerodynamic holes. - Hey, Chris. Remember that last car you destroyed? - Yeah. - Yeah, this was his car. - Oh. - Yeah.
- Yeah. - This is what it was like when we destroyed your car
but we bought him a new one so it's all okay. - You know how to add value to a car? - Show us how to add value.
- You make a sunroof. - Oh. That's innovative. Apparently if you had a sunroof,
your car would worth more. - Hey, Chris. - Yeah. - Dude, this was weighing it down. Yeah, it's a McDonald's
wrapper, no wonder. Chris, I really appreciate you caring about my stepdad's car. - You're very welcome. - You're trying to add
value with the sunroof. Honestly, it's very sweet. - Right now, I'm just trying
to get the pick-axe out. - If you buy a MrBeast shirt,
we won't make you a sunroof but you get Beast points which you can use to enter into a
sweepstakes to win $10,000. Oh wait, wait. We forgot our main weapon. Car army, your leader has arrived. Let's do this. - You hit that car, you
really should leave a note on the windshield. - No. Oh, get away. I don't have insurance. Should we buy insurance? - Bye, Jimmy. - And right here, we have our
engineer because I'm dumb. I went to college for two weeks. So he's our engineer, he's gonna... You're gonna make this work, right? - I dropped out of high school. - Oh, he dropped out of high school. Cool. All right. We're screwed. I'm sorry, guys. - Darn it, Jordan. - Jordan, we are counting on you, man. - You are our last hope, Jordan. Classic Jordan. - Looks like he got some road cars.
- Come back, RC cars. - They just took off on their own. - We don't want do this. We weren't made for this. - They're trying to escape. - Merch is so fire, I just gotta cool off. It's not cool enough. I need to cool off more. This merch is fire. Ah, some water went up my nose. Keemstar just called Beast so I have no clue what
they're talking about. - MrBeast, there's a
tweet here from Logan Paul that I need to read and he says, "Laughing so hard, crying emoji 45 times." Can you help me with that? - Laughing out loud, crying emoji, laughing out loud, crying
emoji, laughing out loud. - 2,000 years later. - Laughing out loud, crying emoji, laughing out loud, crying emoji,
laughing out loud, crying- - Thank you, MrBeast. - But while he's doing that,
we're gonna Flex Seal the car. - We don't use that music anymore. No, I'm not putting that music on. I'm not putting... Fine, you convinced me. - Hey, Chris. - Yeah? - Who put "shopmrbeast.com" on the side? - I actually don't know
but they're very smart. - Oh, was it you? Not only is this guy an RC guy but he's also a great man. All right. So apparently, we had too
many of these little ones that they got unpaired
from their controllers so now they just don't wanna
work, they're revolting. Honestly, little RC cars are evil so we're gonna get rid of 'em and try out with these big cars 'cause these big cars can actually pull a lot of weight on their own, and the car's in neutral so I think maybe just the big
cars might be able to do it 'cause these cars are evil. Everyone say, "Evil little cars. How dare you get unpaired
with your controller?" We have an army of cars here. We're lacking a hot
girl to do the countdown so you're gonna have to sell for me with my, you know,
mrbeast.shopcomthingmerch. Five, three, eight, one, go! Oh my God. Dude, dude. Dude, it actually pulled it. What the... Dude, these guys are Troopers. - It stopped right here because it's, like, going at a hill but it got a little ways down the hill. - We called in some reinforcement. These are some big boy. As you can see, these are big boy tires like a big boy machine and
they're gonna do big boy things. AKA, hopefully, they pull this car. So you're telling me, these nine cars will be
able to pull this car? - I think so. - Yeah.
- I think these nine cars- - So these are the Traxxas Slash. - Traxxas 2 Wheel Drive Slash, along with one Traxxas
New Ultimate Desert Racer, along with the brand new 2.0 E-Revo. - I don't know what that means but if you want a car to pull
something heavy, buy these. Traxxas. All right, let's do it, boys. All right guys, you got this. Let's do it. Oh, oh my goodness. Dude. No one. No one's behind the car. Look. Dude, the car's moving. No one's behind the car, no one's near it. Oh. Don't let it run over the car. Stop it, stop it, stop it. Hey, Superman. - That was actually pretty cool. - Whoa.
- That was actually pretty cool. - Dude. Everyone, round of
applause for these cars. I think we should kiss 'em. Hey, I know you're good at moisturizing. Are you good at kissing cars? - Don't make me kiss these cars. - Okay, I'll kiss it. I kissed it. - If your car ever breaks down, all you need is, like,
seven grand worth of RC car. - Whoa, that's a great idea. Dude, we should actually
start a towing company but instead of a tow truck
just have, like, 30 of these. - I'm sure we'll get tons of business. - 'Cause, like, getting towed sucks but imagine if a bunch
of RC cars rolled up and was like, "What's up, man? I got you." Now, we race 'em. Yeah, no, let's go race 'em.
- Let's go race 'em. - So as you can see, there's a blue car and a white car. I am the blue car, this
man's the white car. This is a professional
RC car racing track. If you win this race, you get $1,000. - If I win this race, I get $1,000? - Yes.
- Okay. - Remember, guys, I'm blue. - Three, two, one, go! - Okay. - nice, nice. Go, go, go, go, go. Oh, he cut the track. He cut the track. - Mine doesn't have reverse. Chris, go fix it. - The only way you're getting up... Not that. Perfectly. The final turn. - First off, I'm not crying. This is my allergies, they're pretty bad. Also, I don't actually
have the money on me but I promise you, we will get you $1,000. - All right. - Ethan, tell the viewers
you'll get it to 'em. All right. - I would appreciate it again, everybody, but if you like what to see on the track, we're also gonna put a link to our Instagram page down below. It's actually really cool. We got a lot of really cool content, a lot of races from all over the country. If you've never seen an RC before, it's also something you can get in to, something to do with your dad, something to do with your family. And I'm gonna take
another lap on the track. - So the reason these cars didn't work just like we said before,
their frequencies got jammed but on their own, they work and they're actually really nice RC cars. So I have no further use for 'em so we're actually gonna be
giving them to Toys for Tots. - Kids that don't have a lot that Toys for Tots goes
around and give them to, really, they're underprivileged kids. - Yeah.
- And we're gonna box 'em all up and make a lot
of kids happy for Christmas. - Yeah, we got all the boxes here so we'll do like 50 of these. We'll put 'em back in or he will, I'm not gonna lie, act like we are. And then he'll give 'em to them. See all these despicable cars? This is like 5,003 something thousands of dollars worth of little cars and they didn't work so
make sure you boo 'em but that's it for the video, like I said. Hi, RC cars. Hi, cars. If you want a chance to win $10,000, just go to shopmrbeast.com, buy some merch or follow or like my Instagram page, get Beast points, convert that
Beast points to sweepstakes and you can win 10 grand and do the outro on one of my videos and, like, these shirts look pretty good. By the way, I never mentioned this but this is actually an exclusive shirt. We're only selling this till May 7th. So when we picked the
winner of the $10,000, we're also never selling this shirt again. And also, this is the
guy who helped us out, Without him, this wouldn't
have been possible. Actually, two of the
cars were actually his. So I'm gonna give him a chance
to say whatever he wants because he helped us a lot. It was actually pretty helpful. Let me make sure you guys can see him. - What's up, guys? It's Ryan with Ron Ayers Motorsports. Wanna give a big shout out to MrBeast for letting us do this. A huge shout out to Jeff
and Steve over at Traxxas. They were a really big help with us and also Grant, Andy and
Sarah over at Horizon Hobby. - Thank you, guys. I appreciate it.
- Absolutely. My videos are way too complicated. - And if you wanna buy any of these cars, we have a link to, hopefully, my Instagram and some other Instagrams
in the description below. Like and comment that and I'll be giving away some cool stuff. - Hey Chris, can you hold my snot tissue? - Yeah, I got-
- Just kidding. I'm not a bad friend, just crucial. You're a bad friend, if you
lose and don't subscribe. Rock, paper, scissors. Rock, paper, scissors, shoot.