- This is the perfect Minecraft gaming PC. And this is the one that
you should actually build. So to find out what it takes to build the perfect Minecraft gaming PC, I sat down with someone who
happens to know a thing or two about the game. Saxs Persson, who is the chief creative
officer of Minecraft. - I, I've been with Minecraft
for seven years now. Like we look at the speedruns all the time to see where's the game hitching, like where's the, where people hitting sort of the limits of what they can do in the game and what do we need to do better? - Can you give me a
little bit of a background on kind of like, what some of the most important
technical components are on the PC side to really give
you the max performance? (laughs) - My cat would like to say anything under 60 frames
a second is a crime. (laughs) Memory bandwidth is super important because if you think about
like one chunk of Minecraft is 16 by 16 by 16 cubes, so that's, what's that 4096 cubes that are tessellated, then imagine like, how many, how many chunks
you're really seeing? Like, because you're
looking below ground too. If you're a speedrunner, and you're, you're by nature only being in areas you've
never been in before we haven't tessellated, you want that to go as fast as possible so you can see where you're going, But you don't want to
enter like a nether portal and look out and then wait 10 seconds till the like sort of the
view data distance fills in, you would never, you would,
you would never break it yeah, a world record that way. - [Austin] To get some
insight on what it takes to speedrun Minecraft
at a competitive level, I also chatted with Couriway, someone who has multiple world records. Obviously you're playing on PC. Do you use keyboard, mouse? Do you use controller? Kinda like, can you walk
me through a little bit about the gear that you use right now. - I don't have anything like
too crazy computer-wise. Like I have a GTX 1080, I have some pretty standard stuff. I have like a two terabyte
external hard drive where I just like shove my runs in. But it definitely helps
to have a better PC. You definitely have an advantage. The other big advantage is world loading. Being able to reset harder
with a better computer is definitely probably the
biggest hardware difference for the game right now. - If you were like building
a set up from, from scratch, are there any specific
upgrades that you would go for? - I would say like a
GTX, like 30 whatever, like 3070, 3080 or 3090. 32 gigs of RAM. And then I've been looking at, I think it was a Ryzen like 5700 processor or something like that. Most runners stream and
record at the same time. So having something
that can handle that is, is really really crucial. - So to truly build the ultimate
Minecraft gaming setups, we're here at our fine
sponsor, Micro Center to get all the components we need. So for our realistic Minecraft build, we are going to be going with
something a little unusual, a Core I5-11400. This actually my opinion
is enough performance to really run Minecraft at high settings. But importantly, it also
won't break the bank. Now for our fully
ultimate ridiculous setup, we're gonna go for a Ryzen 9 5900X, 12 core super high clock
speeds, overclock-able. Between these two, these will really be the
basis of our Minecraft setups. One of the things that's really important for Minecraft is the RAM. So what we're gonna be using
here is not only G.Skill but we're gonna be using
for our lower end system, 16 gigs of RipJaws, but especially when it
comes to that high-end, we really want to be able to allocate as much memory as possible so we're gonna go for a full 32 gigabytes of
G Skill Trident Z Neo. Not only will this look
great, but importantly, it should allow us to
allocate a ton of RAM specifically just for Minecraft. - You are not going to
believe what I just found. - Oh, you found one. - Found one. - Yes. Okay. - Just the right color too. - Of course, in Creeper green. So this is the Lian Li 011 Dynamic. Not only is just one of my
favorite cases out here, but importantly, it
comes in Creeper green. Do you know what your next
trip to Micro Center could use? A free pair of Bluetooth headphones. All you need to do is check out
the link in the description, throw in your email address and you will be emailed an in-store coupon to pick up a pair of headphones,
just like this for free. So what are you waiting for? And my voice just cracked. 'Cause I'm so excited about the deal. You can also check out the
link in the description for the Micro Center community quest. New prizes each week are all
leading up to a grand prize of a $750 Micro Center gift card. The secret code for you
who are still watching is "MINECRAFTPC" to enter to win the grand prize and more. - [Ken] Feel like I
always love getting these, - [Austin] Ohhhhh. - [Ken] we should totally get a Kraken- - [Austin] Z73? - [Ken] Z73 I believe will work. We should double check it real quick. But any one of these that
have the screen on the CPU. - We'll put some TnT on this. Oh, it will be. YES. Today's a good day. Today's a good day. And so it is time to begin building our perfect Minecraft gaming PC set up. Now there's a lot of
components we have here. But the one I really want
to pay attention to is this, this is the Gigabyte GeForce RTX 3080 TI. Now not only will this allow us to run Minecraft with full ray-tracing and a roughly 3 billion
chunk distance render. Okay maybe not 3 billion, but a lot. So this is a Gigabyte B550 Aorus Master. We've used this in the past and honestly this is one of my favorite
motherboards right now. Don't let the B550 branding fool you. While yes it's not technically X570, this still has almost all
of those same features. And importantly it's a little
bit more of a modern chip set, which means that we will
still be able to easily drive a Ryzen 9 5900X, as well as our, 32 gigs of Trident Z Neo memory. Now on the other side, we have our reasonable
Minecraft gaming PC. I feel like this is the one that you are probably
more likely to build. So not only do we have our Core i5-11400, but importantly, we also have all the
things that we really need. So we have a 1650 Super, it's not a super powerful graphics card, but it does have enough
power and importantly, it does have NVENC, on-board, which is going to make
streaming much easier. Speaking of streaming, we also have, in addition to our 500 Gig Crucial SSD, we also have a one terabyte external. Now all of this is going to be not only using the Gigabyte H510M, but we're also going to be putting it inside an NZXT H510 case. Hit markers. You know, 2015 memes. I think there's really
nothing else for it. Let's get to building and see exactly how our perfect and reasonable
Minecraft gaming PCs could come together. So this, as you might expect,
it's coming along nicely. So thankfully everything actually is fairly well color-matched. And by that, I mean, it's
all black on black, on black. So we've got black sleeves
for our power supply, the newer style Intel stock
cooler, which is also black. The black board. Even our SSD is black. So now it's time to see what
color our 1650 Super is. I'm gonna guess it's black. Oh look it's black. With Minecraft. this
seems like a solid card. Four gigs of VRAM should be fine. While it might not be the latest, most cutting edge RTX card, if you can find one of these at retail at your friendly local Micro Center, you're still getting a
good amount of performance. That's clean although, certainly not a aesthetically
impressive system. It's really just black on black. We don't have any LEDs. We didn't get any like LED
fans or strips or anything. And that's almost entirely
because this system is not really about the aesthetic. This system is about
giving you a good gaming and streaming sort of setup for Minecraft. That system is about the overkill. How is that system looking? - [Ken] It's going great. - Why don't we walk over
here and take a look. So you've got the push-pull setup. So you've got these stock
NZXT fans on the back and you've got the LLs up front. - [Ken] Yep. - Dude, this looks really nice. I love the finish that
Lian Li put on this. The green, and on top of that, the red sleeves, it's a nice little pop of color, especially cause you've
got a little bit of red here on the board as well. I'm really happy with how both
these systems are coming out. I think we're in store
for some of the best Minecraft action you've ever seen. Ken when was the last
time you played Minecraft? - [Ken] A month ago? - That's pretty impressive actually. I haven't played in a little while. - [Ken] Okay. - A little while. A long long time. So this is what our reasonable
Minecraft set up looks like. Now it might not be the
coolest looking setup, but importantly, it gets the job done. I'm actually really happy
with how it's come out. So of course we have
ourselves, the dual displays. So both of them are
running at 1080p 75 Hertz. One of the big differences between the last time you've seen it And that it's actually up and running is the fact that we've now incorporated a camera involved. Not a webcam, oh no. This is an EpoCam, AKA, it's an app for iPhone that via USB lets it turn into a webcam. Now, if you would like
you can certainly use any kind of webcam if
you've already got one. But for me, considering
I already have an iPhone, it's easy enough to get
actually pretty decent quality. So in fact, if I actually
want to hop in here, you can see that while
it's certainly not perfect, especially with like fast motion it doesn't look super super crisp, but it's actually a
very, very usable setup. I can easily just hop over into the game and I can get everything like that. So we do have a Kraken X headset which um, you can now hear what it sounds like. It's not amazing, but considering this
is like a $50 headset, it's pretty solid. We also do have the Naga mouse, which specifically has
a ton of macro keys. Now just one note, you're looking at 1080p
footage through OBS. If you're streaming, you're probably going to want
to stream at 720p instead. But I just want to show what
the system can actually do. Now one of the important
things I want to show is how fast it is to
actually create a new world. Especially if you're speedrunning, you may go through this tons
and tons of times every day. So we'll call this test 2. Create. Now it's certainly not a "fast thing" if you don't have plenty
of CPU, plenty of GPU. And one of the things I have done is I've allocated eight
gigs of RAM to Minecraft, which is probably more
than we really need. As you can see, we've created
a new world pretty quickly. If I pop up F3 here, you'll see that while I've got a, I believe the 22 chunk distance
render distance right now, it's actually running pretty smooth. So right now it's like 115, 120 FPS. I've seen a dip as low as about 60-65. But considering we're streaming at 60p, it doesn't really bother me too much. So clearly this is just a brand new world and I will certainly
not try to speedrun it and try to figure out
and how to get to the, what is it, the, the nether? I should probably know this. I've actually never
beaten Minecraft before. I've never even made it to the Nether. (laughs) I've never even made it to the Nether. (laughs) So it's one thing to play the game and see the settings and have OBS running, but it's a very different thing for me to speedrun Minecraft myself. So I have never tried to
speedrun Minecraft in my life. So I'm gonna cheat by
starting out with a set seed. Ready? And let's begin. All right so we're immediately here. Where am I going? Where am I going? - [Matt] You gotta kill the Ender Dragon. - [Austin] I need to, yes, I don't see an Ender Dragon. There's nothing around me anywhere. Wait, I think I see a village.
I think I see a village. A bed. I want a bed. Yep. Need that for the Ender Dragon. I Like your hat bro. Wait can I do anything with you? - [Ken] Dude stop wasting time. - [Austin] Okay well
where am I supposed to go? - [Ken] Around. - [Austin] All right. I'm ready, to do something. - [Matt] Well as of me
saying this right now, you've just lost the ability to be the number one ranked speedrunner. - People are already done? I haven't gotten anywhere. Get over here. - [Ken] He's gonna die before. He's just going to die. Oh no that's not. I don't like that. - [Austin] How's he so strong? - [Ken] You're not using
a sword that's why. - [Austin] I don't have anything. - [Ken] That's, that's unfortunate. - [Matt] Okay, so your time was 8:35. That's third place. - Third place? - Except they beat the
game instead of dying. (laughs) - Okay. We're going to
start again in 3, 2, 1 generating world. - [Ken] If you win, in 10 minutes, I'll give you this whole entire thing. - I'm not going to win it. What? That would be like
almost world record pace. Okay. Hang on. So I found a village. Okay so I'm gonna loot it
as fast as I can. Okay. - [Matt] You really chose
that one and not the oak? - I don't care what
kind of wood it is Matt. I've got to win at all costs. Okay all right all right. So I have a shovel. I'm just gonna start digging. - [Ken] You're literally
making yourself a staircase that you don't need to make. - [Austin] Well, how am I
supposed to get out of here huh? (exclaims) - [Ken] A cave. - [Austin] I found stuff. I hear something laughing at me though that's probably a bad thing, right? - [Ken] Oh, you're in ohh. (yelling) No. There's a chest to chest. - [Austin] WHERE? - [Ken] Oh, that's a- (yelling) Hit him, hit him with the sword. Sword. Sword. Be careful of the, the, oh, there's a- (Austin yelling) - [Austin] What the- - [Ken] Oh no, he's
got a witch nevermind. (Austin yelling) - NO. NO. NO. How could this happen? (grunts) - [Matt] 6:16 - [Ken] So you died quicker. - [Matt] You did better that time. - I got a lot farther that time. Did you see my movement? My movement was on point. Okay, so at this point, we've clearly seen my
expert speedrunning skills, but what we haven't seen is what the perfect Minecraft
system is capable of. This is a little bit more like it. Welcome to the perfect Minecraft setup. So of course the system is
inside of an 011 Dynamic, specifically in Creeper green. As you can see, the color scheme is very
much leaning into that. One of my personal favorite
parts of this system is the fact that we are using the NZXT, the Z73 cooler, which means it's not only a 360 millimeter radiator, but importantly, it looks
great with the screen. We have a total of 9 LL120s which let's just say this
back panel is gonna stay on. Cable management is
impeccable. Don't worry. But outside of the system itself, all the performance and all the aesthetic, we also have a good group
of peripherals as well. So not only do we have ourselves
headset, keyboard, mouse, but also, we have ourselves a fairly large 32 inch LG Ultra Gear display. This is running at 1440p
at 165 frames per second. Have you noticed this
particular version of Minecraft looks a little different because while the reasonable gaming PC is capable of playing at 1080p, decent chunk distance, you can stream and whatnot, this is not about trying
to get your world record, this is about turning
up RTX to the maximum and see what Minecraft can really do when you throw a 3080 TI at it and a 12-core Ryzen processor and 32 gigs of RAM and a bunch of LL120s. So if you've never played
Minecraft with RTX on, it is a big difference. You can see a light like
this is accurately portrayed the way it should in the game. I think I'm gonna restart and show it at daytime though. I think it looks better in daytime, especially with the
reflections on the water. So not only does RTX sort of change, not really so much the
overall feel of the game, but really the look of it, right? So you've got very realistic
ray-tracing that's everywhere. Even something as small as
this little light right here or all the way over to say, if I walk over to the water, you can see that there's
this huge difference to the sort of feel of the game. Like even from here, you can see there's accurate reflections. And in fact, right now,
if I hop into video, right now we've got it set to
16 chunks of render distance. And I mean, it is incredibly smooth on this 165 Hertz display. The smoothness of this gameplay is not something you're gonna be able to see in the video, right? Like we're not uploading
this video at 160 FPS. But look at how natural
this one little torch is lighting the room but
watch, if i knock it out, ah that's cool. - So we just saw Austin play RTX Minecraft on Minecraft for Windows, but I personally like
playing on the Java edition as do a lot of other people. In fact, probably most people. And while 1.17 exists, we're gonna be playing on
a prior version to that, 1.16.5 because we have
some of my favorite shaders and texture packs there. Which while isn't
technically Minecraft RTX, it does have some ray-tracing on it specifically on the Seus
shaders that I'm using, which I think look absolutely brilliant. And I think we'll tax this 3080 TI. And here we are. So I'm loaded into this
newly generated world, as you can see, I literally have nothing. I also have my own little skin here. I have a Kentama skin. - [Matt] Of course you do. - [Ken] Friend of mine made this. A lot of things set to fancy, maximum. On my shaders I have some
anti-aliasing off apparently, we'll leave that off 'cause we're currently at 50 frames and honestly, with Minecraft, I don't think you'll
really need anti-aliasing. Most importantly guys,
like, look at this water. - [Austin] Oh my God. - [Ken] This water looks great doesn't it? - [Austin] Wow. - [Ken] See the fish
through there and all that. Look at the sun. And as we move around, you can see that the
lighting kind of shifts depending on where we are. The shadows look really nice too. Look at all of the lighting fall off through these trees here as well. Oh man, look, look at how the sun peaks over the building over here. Oh my God. That's almost searing my eyes. That's actually really bright. - So big thank you to both
Saxs as well as Couriway for all their insight in helping
us build these gaming PCs. And if you're interested
in any of the components that we have here, you'll find them at the
links in the description. Thanks to our very kind
sponsor, Micro Center. Now the real question is, what game should we build a
perfect gaming PC for next? It's gotta be Valorant right?