- If you're buying an Xbox
Series X, a PS5 or an RTX 3080, then to get the most out of them, you need to do a much bigger upgrade. The display, the cables you're using, all of that has to be optimized. Otherwise, you're just simply leaving
performance on the table. Here's the deal. All of these devices are
taking advantage of HDMI 2.1. Now, this looks exactly like the HDMI that we all know and love. However, it functionally is very different. Not only in just the cables, which even though when you look at them, they look basically the same but importantly the displays that you connect them
to are also different. So sit down and give me
a few minutes to explain why if you are going to be upgrading, you really do need to consider having a much bigger
upgrade across the board. So to give you an example,
this is something that you would think would
actually be capable of getting the most out of the Xbox. While it's a 1080p gaming display importantly it will run all the way up to 144 hertz provided
you're connected to a PC. The thing is though
not all of these things are created equal because you really need to take advantage of HDMI 2.1 to get the best
out of something like this. So I hop into the settings
here really quick. What you'll see is when I go
to try change my resolution obviously 1080p is the max but I don't have 120 hertz. I don't have 4K. I don't have any of these things. The console's are capable. But most displays are just simply not set up to take a such a high quality high bandwidth signal from a device over HDMI right? Theoretically, the cables and everything here should
be able to do 1080p 120. And as you'll see later, some devices and some
TVs will do that, right? But it is all very, very confusing. So what do we need to be able to play at 4K and 120 frames per second? Well, I'm glad you didn't ask that because I happen to have
what I was able to find as the cheapest, oh classic. The cheapest HDMI 2.1 device I could find. So this is the LG 85 series NanoCell TV. And as I was recording this video of course, this stuff is
going to evolve very quickly. since you're watching this
later, things may change. But as of recording this right now this is the cheapest display
that should be capable of 4K and 120 FPS. And that's not even getting
into all the other features that this console support including HDR including auto latency
mode, including FreeSync. So this is what you want to look for, HDMI 4K at 120 hertz. So with this TV specifically
has four HDMI ports, two of which are rated for the Xbox and the PlayStation in your PC. The problem is unless
you're ready to unbox the TV and look for what it says on the port. It's kind of hard to actually know what really supports this. So now we have not only 4K is an option but if I open it up, I can bump
up to 120 frames per second. Now with 120 frames per second you're getting double the amount of frames depending on the game and
therefore double the smoothness. So if I wanted to play a game like DIRT 5, I would get that full experience. One thing though to note, you'll see 4K 120 requires an
ultra high-speed HDMI cable included with Series X. So I am using the cable
that comes with a Series X, but you can't just use any HDMI cable. You need to make sure that it is 2.1 and some cables say they are and they actually aren't, a good way to test is
to see if it's thick. Cause all of these 2.1 cables are much thicker than a standard cable, but if you use the one that
comes through your Xbox and I assume PS5, you should be fine. But the thing is, there's still
more to it than this right? Because yes, we technically
have a working set up here, but there are other TVs
that either do or don't have 120 support. And there's some TVs that
will run at 1080p or 4K and actually figuring out what works. You don't want to just buy this model of TV that I've tested can get really complicated. So there are a few things
you should look for when it comes time to
actually purchasing a TV or a monitor that you
plan to use with the Xbox, with the PlayStation or
to something like a 3080, if you wanna go over HDMI. First of all, HDMI 2.1 but
that's just the beginning cause you also need to
support a full 4K 120. A lot of devices will
technically support 120 but maybe it's something like 1080p. But then there are things like FreeSync. Does it support a variable refresh rate? Does it support auto low-latency mode? These are all things that
can make a big difference in your gaming experience Cause it's not just about purely being able to play the game at 120. You also wanna make sure that you do that with say no torn frames. You wanna make sure that you get an HDR. There's a lot of stuff that goes into this and certainly not all TV's
that you purchase right now are going to support it. But I will say once you
get it all up and running, this is a very, very
nice looking experience. And mind you all of this will work on pretty
much any HDMI display right? Like that's not a huge problem, but if you wanna get the most out of it, and honestly a lot of these games, you do need to have stuff like 120 FPS because I'll say like DIRT looks nice. But if I wasn't running
at 120 FPS right now I could probably be
playing on like a One X and I wouldn't really
notice the difference. So to really get the most out of these PS5 and the Xbox Series X and those Series S having that full high
refresh rate is a big deal. So to make things even more complicated. Some TVs will have a hybrid approach to supporting something
like a PS5 or Series X. So this is a 2019 65 inch Vizio. Now if I hop into the
settings, what you'll see is we see immediately 1080p
and 120 FPS as an option. That's great. I think in a lot of scenarios,
what I would like to do, is play at 4K for games that
don't support anything higher but if something like
DIRT has a 120 FPS option I'll just slip my TV
over into 120 hertz mode. Now there is another option
which is to switch over to 4K. Now by default, this is going to drop me
down to 60 frames per second, which you getting from most
games is going to be fine. But as actually, I just
pass came through it. Even though it says 120
hertz is an option at 4K. As soon as I do that, the TV and specifically the Xbox realizes that that's not smart idea. Yeah, this refresh rate isn't
supported with the resolution. So you said to the highest resolution by this display with the frame rate. So essentially the Xbox specifically is smart enough to know
what your TV can handle and the 4K TV details always tell you 4K 60 not 4K 120 but you can
go up to native 1080p at 120 but just because you don't
have a brand new HDMI 2.1 TV doesn't necessarily mean that you can't get 120 FPS game play. Mean I have to do a little bit of fiddling or lose a few pixels. But if it's me I would much
rather play at 1080p 120 if the game supports it compared to 4K 60. So what happens when we
plug the Xbox Series X into a 4K 120 gaming monitor? Well we should see the very least 4K, but now a different set
of options will show up by actually jump in and out. So first of all 4K no brainer Right? However what I don't see if I open this up is any support for 120 frames per second. Now that makes sense because this is equipped with
an HDMI 2.0 port not 2.1, which means that like a
lot of TVs, for example, I can play games at 4K
at 60 frames per second, but I can't get 120 frames
per second out of it. So when it came time for us to build our ultimate next gen gaming setup, we end up going with an LG OLED specifically a 2020, 65 inch. Now one of the nice things is
pretty much all of the 2019 and 2020 OLEDs do support 4K. They support 120 as well as stuff like the auto low latency mode and FreeSync and all that kind of stuff. But I think the real question here is once you know that you have the TV and you have your HDMI cable
and everything is set, cool. But how easy is it to find a
TV that will actually work? Spoiler alert really (oof) difficult. So say I want to find a TV that will work well with my brand new PS5. So I go on bestbuy.com. I want us to search for 4K TVs cause obviously I want 4K, a 70 inch Samsung 4K
surely a 70 inch Samsung TV even though it's only $600, we'll support 120 FPS right? Oh wait, hold on. Motion enhancement
technology motion rate 120. I mean, that sounds
like what I need right? 120 clearly that's the actual move right? Well, I found one thing. I found our NanoCell when I searched that the NanoCell that we have across the hall all those are the 55 inch,
but it's the same thing. We know that this one works - [Narrator 1] Right, we do. - Do you think it says anywhere 60 hertz, - 4K at 120 hertz. - So what you're saying right now is the only way to find out short of finding someone
who answers the question who has the TV has tested it. A TV that is supporting the
full spec what we're looking for right? We just tested it. HDMI 2.1 all the bells and whistles is to buy it and to try it. look, there will obviously
be videos like this one. There will be articles that will tell you, Hey, look this is a great TV for PS5 or Series X or whatever the case is. And as time goes on, these
TVs are going to become more and more popular. But as of right now it is
a complete God oof disaster trying to find any of these TVs that work well with the consoles. Sure, you can just default to buy a very expensive high-end premium TV from a Samsung, from a Vizio from an LG, whatever the case is, it'll probably work. But if you wanna know for sure
short of finding an article or a video of someone who's
tested that specific feature it is really hard to
commit to that, right? I cannot believe this is literally one of the only TVs that should do it. And it doesn't say it. I would never have known. So hang on a second. I'm coming back to that 70 inch right? Samsung talked a big game
about the 120 motion rate. 120 motion rate is not
the same as 120 FPS. A lot of these TVs will run at 120 or 240, but that's with motion smoothing. That's not the same thing as
120 true frames per second. I finally found it
native refresh rates 60. I've read 120 about 100 times before I finally found
this very technical article which finally tells me that actually what I really need to know
is I could buy this from PS5 and I'm not getting what I'm hoping. Here's the deal. There are a lot of
things going wrong here. I'll fully admit that these
console's are brand new and a lot of TV companies
and manufacturers and specific stores don't even really
understand the differences and certainly haven't tested it right? But there is a fundamental issue with the fact that I'm
on a manufactures website and I can't find what I'm looking for. I'm seeing their marketing stuff but that's not what actually I am looking for to make this TV do
what I want it to do. Don't say that I'm having to go on these like sites that have done
these super thorough tests of the TV to finally get the information it's been here on the
bottom of making sure that 4K at 120 hertz is enabled right? That's not okay. Then you've got the TV and you're gonna miss
out on the next three, four, five years of gaming, never experiencing that extra
fluidity that the console that you've already
purchased is capable of. Thank you very much for watching. Make sure you subscribe to the channel for more ranting and raving is all about the perils of the next
generation of consoles. Until next time. Good luck trying to get the most out of your shiny new console.