It has been a week and thanks to 
tests by a few Chinese scientists,   we can probably say that LK-99 isn't 
a room temperature superconductor. The hype has largely died down. LK-99 has vanished 
off people's social feeds and science news. I suppose we can still keep on waiting 
but the right now it's so over. Oh well, it wouldn't have done anything 
for the semiconductor industry anyway.   I did some follow-up work since the last video. Even if we hit the jackpot tomorrow and find 
a True Blue room temperature superconductor,   it will be nice but hardly 
a revolution. In this video,   some irresponsible thoughts about 
superconductors and semiconductors. ## Interconnects The first thing I thought about when I thought   about superconductors for 
chips were interconnects. In an integrated circuit, 
interconnects are wires for   transmitting the electrical signals between 
the transistors and other circuit elements. These interconnects are usually but not 
always made from low-resistance metal,   so we call them "metal layers". The wires are surrounded by dielectric 
material - "intermetal dielectric layers"   that serve as insulators. For a long time, 
we used trusty silicon dioxide for this. These layers sit all jumbled about on top of the   silicon transistors like how 
stratum look like in geology. Generally speaking, an IC has two types 
of interconnects - local and global. Local interconnects occupy the chip's 
lowest levels and connect local circuit   blocks. The wires are very short so 
designers are less concerned about   line resistance than they are 
about other factors like heat. So I don't think a room-temperature 
superconductor - which would be quite   sensitive to heat - makes sense here at all. Global interconnects are higher up in the 
stratum. They connect distant parts of the chip   - delivering important signals like synchronizing 
clock signals or power to run the transistors. For this reason, they have great 
size. They look thick. Solid. Tight. The distance they have to 
span also means that they   must be made from low-resistance 
metals like aluminum or copper. ## Superconductive Interconnects? I was very curious about this. In today's most advanced AI accelerators - like 
the Nvidia H100s we use for massive models like   ChatGPT - some 80-90% of the power budget is spent 
on simply transferring data around rather than   actual computation. Will superconducting 
interconnects simply wipe that out? So I asked MIT PhD Alex Sludds for a few thoughts. 
He is a photonics researcher with a background in   semiconductor devices and interconnects. And 
of course, he is a good friend of the channel. I did a video about his work in neural 
networks and photonics a while ago. Alex said: > At short lengths of wire, 
having a superconducting wire   will help significantly decrease the energy 
consumption to transmit a zero or a one. When he mentions "short", he means as 
in the context of wires on the chip or   between multiple chips like in a chiplet scenario. > However, this energy will not become free,   since wires will still have a 
capacitance and an inductance   that stores in the electrical/magnetic field of 
the current flowing through the superconductor. What I think Alex is saying - if I get it wrong 
it's because I'm too dumb to understand his   words - is that even if the interconnects suddenly 
possess superconducting superpowers, its electric   current will still interact with its surrounding 
environment in a way to cause it to leak power. When you push a current through a wire, that wire 
creates an electric field around itself. Some of   the current's energy gets stored in that electric 
field, causing loss. This is "capacitance". The wire will also produce a magnetic field,   and that magnetic field will store some of the 
current's energy too. This is "inductance". So in terms of energy consumption, there’s going 
to be some improvement. That will especially be   the case for global interconnects for transmitting 
power rather than communication signals. But   the power consumption gains might not be as 
dramatic as I might have initially thought. ## Speed What about computing speed? A substantial portion of the computer's cycle 
time is spent waiting for data to arrive. So,   if the interconnects can carry the data 
around faster then that's great. But   there are fundamental limits 
on how fast we can make this. The absolute ceiling in signal speed - 
the fastest that anything can possibly   travel through any medium - is the 
speed of light. And unfortunately,   signals cannot travel at light's full 
speed because the wire is not a vacuum. Additionally, we need to consider a 
form of interconnect delay known as   "Resistance-Capacitance" Delay or RC 
Delay. Like as I mentioned earlier,   the interconnects store charge. These delay the 
electric signal's transmission to the receiver. Capacitance depends on the dielectric material 
surrounding the wire. That material has a   dielectric constant, called k-value. It has 
little to do with superconductors. So even if   we cut the line resistance to zero, we still 
have to deal with the capacitance part of the   delay equation. I wonder if the speed gains 
will be as significant as I initially thought. ## Current Density There is one last thing about the 
interconnect thing that I want to mention. Remember in the first superconducting 
video when Kamerlingh-Onnes - the   discoverer of superconductivity - tried testing 
superconducting lead wire to generate electricity? He discovered that superconductivity requires 
not only a low enough temperature but also a   low enough magnetic field and 
a low enough current density. After the discovery of High Temperature 
Cuprate superconductors, people   investigated using them for interconnects 
in superconducting integrated circuits. Such superconducting interconnects - when 
matched with the right circuits - can   indeed get very fast. The concern 
however is the current density ... Which is defined as the electric current divided 
by the superconductor's cross-sectional area. As it turns out, the cuprates' critical current 
density limits are not very high. So in order   to run integrated circuit operations and stay 
under those limits, the interconnects have to   be very wide. Perhaps even a centimeter wide, 
which for most digital circuits is unfeasible. This is why the cuprates never made headway 
into the integrated circuit arena. LK-99 or   any room temperature superconductor 
may suffer the same issues. If so,   then it is just a scientific curiosity 
and copper retains its dominance. ## Manufacturability Even if the new superconductor somehow 
miraculously fits into the current IC "box",   we have the manufacturability concerns. I asked Dylan Patel - chief Analyst at 
SemiAnalysis - to say a few thoughts. He said: > While LK-99 seems to show some promise as 
either an extremely low resistivity material   or in fact even potentially a superconductor the 
manufacturability of it is still in question. > While it does seem to be a fairly 
simple process for a low purity,   low volume amount, scaling this at 
high volume at high purity with less   than 1 part per billion defect is 
going to be a tremendous challenge Dylan has a very good point. TSMC has 
said that a single integrated circuit   can use over 100 kilometers of copper wiring. 
They produce billions of chips every month. To me, this is the biggest issue. Any room 
temperature superconductor will be a complex   alloy and those tend to not scale. How can we 
integrate it into the existing process flow? It took 15 years for IBM to crack the complicated   materials engineering issues 
surrounding copper interconnects. And that's copper. We have been 
playing around with copper for   10,000 years. Any room temperature superconductor 
will have been known for far shorter. ## Josephson Effect In 1962, the British physicist Brian 
Josephson - then a grad student just 22   years old at Cambridge - wrote a paper predicting 
a phenomena that we now call the Josephson Effect. The effect occurs when you put two superconductors 
next to one another with a certain thin insulating   barrier in between them. Very thin, 
as in just a few atomic layers thick. The Josephson Effect produces what is called 
a "supercurrent", where a direct current flows   through from one side of the device to the other 
despite the physical presence of an insulator. The supercurrent flows without resistance and 
with little energy loss. This is in contrast   with traditional transistor gates, which generate 
heat as they switch. That heat must be dissipated. The Josephson Effect is one of the few examples   of quantum mechanics - quantum tunneling - 
that we can observe. So that is pretty cool. Josephson later won a Nobel Prize for this. Man, 
they just handing out Nobels for superconductors!   No really, they are. Superconductivity 
research has won a tenth of all the   physics Nobel prizes awarded 
since its discovery in 1911. ## Josephson-junction Electronics A year after Josephson's thesis came out, P.W. Anderson and J. Rowell of Bell 
Labs produced an experimental circuit   based on this theory, creating 
the Josephson Junction Switch. There are a variety of implementations. 
The most popular uses niobium as the   superconductor and aluminum oxide as the 
insulator, creating a sandwich structure. They can switch on or off in just 
a few picoseconds, or a trillionth   of a second. We take advantage of this by 
encoding the data into very rapid pulses,   allowing processing speeds 
of 100 Gigahertz or higher. I don't think anyone disagrees that 
these can get very fast. But there   are major issues. Josephson Junctions 
require big compromises and suffer   shortcomings in certain aspects. 
Let me go through a few of them. ## Memory & Complexity IBM worked on producing Josephson 
Junction-based computers for two decades,   eventually closing their efforts in 1983. One of the major reasons why they finally ended 
the project was that they struggled with producing   a proper superconducting memory circuit. 
Memory is basic and essential to a computer. The largest Josephson-only memory unit 
ever produced was a 4-kilobit unit   produced in 1990 by NEC. The reason 
the memory issue exists is that it   is extremely difficult to produce 
these junctions in large densities. Similarly, this is why the most successful 
Josephson-based systems have been analog   systems and the like. Analog systems 
handle real world signals like power   or sound or the like. They have only 
a few components so it’s easier for   superconductor-based integrated 
circuits to compete with them. Sensors too, Alex pointed out that we can 
use superconducting circuits to produce   some of the most sensitive photon detectors - 
superconducting nanowire single photon detectors. Digital systems on the other hand are built 
with millions and billions of consistent   transistors. It will be far harder to produce 
a competitive superconducting digital system. Something that might make the most sense would be 
like a semiconductor-superconductor hybrid module,   like AMD's chiplets. This is where we combine   semiconductor-based memory systems with 
superconductor-based processing systems. ## Freezing Concerns So even if we get a True Blue, Real 
Deal room temperature superconductor. And it fits in the IC critical limits box. And 
it can be manufactured in sufficient purities.   And we figure out how to make dense bunches of 
Josephson junctions with it. And maybe we do   that hybrid semiconductor-superconductor modules 
we talked about to overcome the memory problem ... it still doesn't mean that we get to throw off 
the freezing equipment like Prometheus's chains. As a superconductor approaches its 
upper limit transition temperature,   the number of Cooper pairs in 
the superconductor declines.   If you recall, Cooper pairs are essential 
to making superconductivity work. The less Cooper pairs we have, the 
more unstable the circuits will be   in the real world. Rule of thumb 
per BCS theory is that we want to   keep the system's operating temperature 
at half of its transition temperature. That is why existing superconducting 
Josephson circuits made from Niobium are   kept at 4-5 Kelvin despite Niobium's 
transition temperature being 9.3 K. LK-99's claimed transition temperature 
is around 400 Kelvin. So its practical   working temperature would be around 200 Kelvin. Or around -99.67 degrees Fahrenheit, or -73 
degrees Celsius, or 360 degrees Rankine,   or -9.055 degrees Wedgwood, or 179 degrees Leiden If we want a true blue room-temperature 
superconducting chip without the freezing   equipment, we need to find something more 
like an oven-temperature superconductor.   With a transition temperature of 600 
Kelvin or 620 degrees Fahrenheit. Refrigeration remains the single biggest 
limiting factor in superconductor-based   computers - adding a big energy 
usage cost on top of the system. The dream that we all have - the tech-optimist’s 
fantasy - is that superconductivity at room   temperature is now possible once we get 
the room temperature superconductor.   I was heartbroken when I 
learned that it wasn’t so. ## Conclusion If LK-99 is the real deal, it will 
be a historic scientific landmark. It might also do impressive things for the power 
transmission and energy industries in the real   world. Though I am just saying that off the top 
of my head without having done the research. But superconductors aren’t serious candidates for 
disrupting existing semiconductor technologies. At   the risk of being made an idiot later, I am saying 
that I don’t believe that any superconductor-based   computer will become commercially 
competitive at any time in the future. But hey, the hype was a 
blast for about a week or so.