- This is the iPhone 12 and the 12 Pro. So let's see what's inside these phones and what they're all about. I can tell you for one thing, there's not as much in the box. So let's start out with the iPhone 12 which has been very kindly
provided to us in the blue color. - [Matt] Pacific blue? - No, I think that's the 12 Pro, I think this is blue, blue. Wait, how blue do you think
this is, pretty blue, right? - [Matt] I think it's like violet in Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. - That's blue.
- Yeah. - Alright, here we go. Woo! that's pretty blue. All right, so that's not plastic on it. Nope, that's that's blue. Hello, welcome to Austin's
blue iPhone corner where this is blue is,
is, that's really blue. So immediately you can
see that the iPhone 12 has a brand new design that is 100% unique and never been used
before on any iPhone ever, such as the greatest piece
of technology ever made, the iPhone 4. Come on the iPhone 4 is the best design. We all know it. You know it, you know it,
you especially know it. The iPhone 4, iPhones peaked then. Smartphones peaked then. So you do get a USB-C to Lightning cable unlike the USB-A cable
that you previously got. So this is clearly the way of the future. Although, if you are an astute viewer you'll notice that there's
no power adapter in the box and there's also no headphones. So buy some Beats, buy a USB-C
power adapter, buy MagSafe. I don’t see why this is so hard, it seems very clear instructions. Oh, we get a single
Apple sticker, how kind. - [Matt] That's 50% less
than what you got last year. - Don't you care about
the environment, Matt? - [Matt] When it comes
to my Apple stickers, how am I supposed to
show two separate people that I am better than them? (laughing) - Let's take a look at the
iPhone 12 Pro really quick. I assumed this is the exact same thing. So unlike with previous iPhones, specifically with the Pro
and the non-Pro models, the actual hardware should
be essentially identical as far as the actual dimensions. Ooh, I like that more. That is nicer. So something interesting, it
almost feels like it's thicker, even though I know that
that's not the case. I think it's entirely because
it has those squared off sides which of course is the best move to fit the most amount
of stuff in the phone. There's no wasted space
here, but it's interesting. Now that being said, the
dimensions are identical between the 12 and the 12 Pro, but there are a few differences. So you'll see that the shiny
glass on the back of the 12 has been replaced by a
matte finish on the 12 Pro. Personally I think that looks nicer. When you put the two phones
side-by-side, what you'll see is you have a matte aluminum
frame on the iPhone 12 and a shiny stainless
steel frame on the 12 Pro. Believe me, the 12 Pro looks great. But I've touched it now, it looks slightly less great. Look it's a fingerprint
magnet, surprise, surprise. So you put the iPhone 12
side by side with the 11, you'll see it's a little bit smaller. However, when you put
the 12 Pro side-by-side with the 11 Pro you'll see
it's a little bit bigger. Part of that is because these
phones are identically sized, Right? I think probably
the bigger upgrade here is going from something like the 11 to the 12 because not only are you getting
much better OLED display, it's higher resolution and
just, it's just a better panel. But on top of that, I like
the size of the 12 more. For me the 11 and the 10 are always just a little bit too big but this feels like a good middle ground. Let's see how they literally weigh up. I was gonna say measure up, but that didn't make quite as much sense with my Handy-Dandy scale that we bought for some other videos I've forgot. Who wants to take bets? which is the heaviest iPhone? - [Matt] The 12 Pro. - The 12 Pro's the heaviest of all four? - [Matt] Yes. - All right, Ken, which one's heaviest? - [Ken] Hedging bets on 11. - You think 11 Pro's heavier?
- [Ken] 11 Pro. Woo! Spicy. All right, let's
start out with the iPhone 11. 192. All right, we have our benchmark. You writing this down Matt? - [Matt] No, you have my phone. Next, let's try the iPhone 12. Whoa! 163. Yo, that's a lot lighter. Al right, now we go for the iPhone 11 Pro 187. You sir are incorrect. Wait, what was the first one? - [Matt] 192. - Yeah, there we go. I remember that. Now, here comes the Medium Chungus itself, the 12 Pro. 187. Ooh, so I put 11 as the heaviest. I will say hey, wait, wait, can I feel it. No, it feel the same. Wait, I have a great idea. Actually, I have just
the right prop for this. Okay, this part shouldn't
make it in the video. Okay, so what was the
difference in the weight again? The 12 is $200 cheaper so I figured if I put $200 on the 12, it weighs the same as a
Pro, but that's, it's, (laughing) Why do you watch my videos? Who let me in front of the camera today? There is a lot new with
the iPhone this year, but one of the biggest features MagSafe. It's specifically what
this can and can't do. So, the first thing that we
have is the MagSafe charger. Now I was actually
playing around with this on Instagram yesterday, and
it actually is kind of fun because nowadays MagSafe
work on the iPhone 11 Pro but it even works on the
Pixel. So let's start out with some help from our friends at OnePlus who have their 65 Watt Warp Charger. It's just seeing what this does when I connect it all up together. So, if I attach this to the
back of the 12 Pro we jump up to - [Matt] 5.2, 6, 7, 8 - Oh we're, we're
climbing, we're climbing. So this charger is good for 45 Watts. So in theory, it should
be plenty good enough. Hang on, so let's actually
try something here before we go too deep into it, right? So let's use MagSafe on
iPhone 11. Interesting. Now it's maybe not the greatest example because I'm at 90% charge. Let's try to use MagSafe
on the Google Pixel 5 which I know will work and it
even will work magnetically. Interesting. So I wonder
if MagSafe is limited to around five Watts on an older device? But if you plug it into a newer device like the 12 or the 12 Pro,
you'll get that full speed. So now let's try with
a 36 Watt Anker Brick and see what we can get. 7, 8, 9, 10. So it seems with MagSafe that you definitely don't need to go out and buy an Apple branded USB-C charger, but you do need something
that will provide at least 20 Watts via USB-C power delivery. Now we're not seeing quite the
15 Watts speeds yet however, this phone is at like 80
something percent battery. So if we were a little bit lower we would likely see a
bit more power out of it. What I'm really curious about with MagSafe is how strong is this magnet? So obviously it sticks
much better to the 12 than it did to any of the other phones. Yeah, that seems pretty good So yeah, so let me try it. - [Matt] I don't like that grin! - Nope, no I don't like that.
I don't like that at all. Woo! Okay, all right.
It at least can hold. That's pretty good. Why
don't we see what happens when you actually put it
inside of a MagSafe case? Yeah, okay. So it does seem
like it charges at about the same speed regardless
of whether you have a case on it or not. Is the magnet on the case strong enough? Yes, yeah, that feels pretty
much exactly the same. So MagSafe is about
more than just charging. So every accessory has
not only those magnets but also a little NFC Chip
to communicate with the phone what kind of accessory it is which is how the phone knows
I'm putting a blue case on for example. Now there are other things that you can do with this. So I know Marques did
a video on the wallet. The wallet seems like
a good idea in theory, but in practice maybe not the strongest sort of magnetic connection. I don't know if I would trust it personally, but you can imagine a ton
of other third parties taking advantage of
MagSafe to add things like a phone mount or all kinds of crazy stuff. I'd love a tripod mod. If I can just drop my
phone directly on a tripod, like how cool would that be? One of the big questions
about the 12 and the 12 Pro this year is of course performance. Not only do these have the
brand new Apple A14 Bionic, but they also have full 5G support. So make sure to subscribe for the full performance
review coming soon but between now and then, we have to take a little bit
of a closer look at the camera. Oh my God! It's exactly the same. Thank you very much for
watching my camera review. So the camera situation, isn't
the clearest in the world so for right now, let's just
focus on the 12 and the 12 pro. So generally speaking the
cameras are very similar to what we had last generation. So with the 12, you get
these same ultra wide camera as before, and you have a
similar wide angle camera just with an improved lens that lets in a little bit more light.
Same story for the 12 Pro, same ultra wide, same wide camera. This just adds the telephoto
from the iPhone 11 Pro. Now, if you're used to the way that the iPhone 11 takes
photos you'll know that that is generally speaking one of the
best smartphone cameras out and the 12 is no exception. So there are improvements to
the processing side of things so the images should
look generally speaking a little bit better especially
with the HDR implementation. It's a little bit more
aggressive this year and sort of give you a bit
of more of a contrasty image, I suppose. But outside of that, there is all whole other
story when it comes to the iPhone 12 Pro Max,
which we will have shortly but that gives you a better telephoto that's more zoomed in and importantly a much larger and hopefully
better main camera's sensor. Now, in addition to the telephoto camera the 12 Pro also does have a LiDAR sensor. So unlike some other phones that have completely
useless extra sensors, this one is at least mildly useful. So you can use it for a couple of things. So of course, anything that
takes advantage of ARKit will be more detailed because
you have a much better depth map of the room that you're in. But for most of us where you're
going to really notice it is when it comes to autofocus. So the LIDAR, especially in low light will be able to help
the phone focus better specifically for things such
as night mode portraits. Now one area where the iPhones have been the king for
several years now is in video and I think that the 12 and the 12 Pro will absolutely continue that. So right now you're
looking at 4K 24p video, although this will go up to 60p as always. However, there's a major
difference this year which is the addition of HDR,
specifically Dolby Vision. What, what's Dolby Vision?
You have 30 seconds. - Well, Dolby Vision is kind
of High Dynamic Range video or HDR, if you will. So
basically the goal is to take the most amount of information
in your bright highlights and your darkest shadows,
and be able to see into those bright highlights
and those dark shadows. Now with normal video, you
can kind of see everything, but the idea with Dolby Vision is the use of special metadata
to transform the video in different brightnesses
so that way you know, you can see it on your smartphone screen or you could see it on a
dimmed TV in a dark room or your iPad when it's,
(phone beeping) (phone beeping)
- Great explanation. There’s still so much more to talk about with the iPhone 12 line. For example, the Pro line will get ProRAW. A better raw format that incorporates more of the image processing.
When we have our hands on the 12 Pro Max, we'll be
able to take a look at those upgraded camera sensors
and how that all looks. We also will be able to take a look at the battery life longterm,
especially considering that these are of course, 5G phones. And then there's the biggest
question in the room, how is the little baby brother the iPhone 12 Mini gonna stack up? So definitely be sure to
subscribe to the channel and you may wanna keep an eye out for not only our speed tests but also we're going to do
a much more in depth video very shortly over at our
second channel, This Is. Matt why should they subscribe? - [Matt] Because This Is is awesome. - Okay, let's not lie to the audience.