I have lived in Taiwan for several 
years now. And I like this place a   lot. But one of the biggest criticisms 
of life here has to do with wages. “The salary is too low here.” I have heard this one over and over again.   Sadly, it’s a crushing reality. In 1997, the real 
average salary in Taiwan was 46,646 NTD a month. July 2014, 17 years later. The average 
working salary in Taiwan has barely budged:   46,786 NTD a month. This is a big reason why people leave and go 
to Australia or the United States or China.   In this video I want to talk a bit about 
wage stagnation in Taiwan’s economy. Let's translate this vague feeling into economic 
concepts that we can more easily understand.   I am going to do some huge simplifications 
here. These are sadly necessary   in order to explain the issue in a 
way that fits into a short video. In an economy, capital and labor come 
together to create economic output.   That output translates into income, or profit 
or however you want to call it. Regardless,   it describes the benefits 
of the capital and labor. This income needs to be split between the holder 
of capital - the shareholders of a company.   And the holders of labor - the company 
employees who do not hold share in the company   and are not entitled to its profits. Think wage 
workers, Uber drivers and entry level analysts. We can split Taiwan's recent 
economic history into three stages: * First, a period of fast growth from 1981 to 1990
* Second, a period of moderate growth from   1991 to 2000
* Third,   wage and economic stagnation from 2001 to 2012 Consistent over these three stages is a decline 
in overall income and GDP growth year to year.   Average economic growth in the 2001 to 2012 
period was 3.25% a year - down from 6.25% in   the 90s and 7.65% in the 80s. This is expected for 
a developing and rapidly aging nation like Taiwan. So we got a pie that's no longer 
getting as big as it used to be.   Now, let us look at how that pie is split up. Data compiled by the Taiwanese 
government shows that the share   of income going to labor has 
been declining since the 1980s. Taiwan is not unique in exhibiting this 
trend. The OECD has shown labor income   share as declining for decades. I 
say that this is a global trend. But the absolute amount of the 
decline combined with the weak   starting position of Taiwan's labor is unusual. Let's compare with other areas 
in Asia. Singapore and Hong Kong   are unique in that labor income share 
increased by some 10% from 1980 to 2011. South Korea, China, and Japan all 
exhibited similar trends though.   Labor income share dropped across the board. The result is a situation where real wages 
essentially decouple from economic output. The   economy on a whole might speed up or slow down, 
but the output income won't go to the workers.   And because income isn't going to the workers, 
they feel like it does not help them at all. This leads us to a few questions.   We can come up with some theories 
explaining this declining income share. The first potential explanation is: Well, 
the workers are getting better at their jobs   but for whatever reason they are not getting 
paid for it. Economic phrasing would be:   Labor productivity increases, but that 
growth is not reflected in incomes. This is the situation in Hong Kong 
and Japan since the 1990s. Hong Kong   is in a rather bad situation here. Workers 
there are working harder and produce a lot   with their work. but they are getting paid 
increasingly less for each marginal hour. Singapore and South Korea are 
somewhat the opposite situation.   They are getting paid more 
for their marginal labor. So what does Taiwan's overall 
labor structure look like?   Well it is pretty stable. It 
is not great. Not terrible. So Taiwan's labor situation is not like Hong 
Kong's - where the workers are getting better   at their jobs but for whatever reason 
are vastly underpaid. On the whole,   Taiwanese people's pay are largely in line 
with the actual value they are delivering. That implies that on the whole Taiwanese 
people are not very productive.   There are a few theories 
for which you explain this. The first, Taiwan's education system does not 
create a competitively productive labor force.   Maybe what Taiwan's kids are learning do not 
make them particularly fit to do the job. Maybe their English language skills are 
poor - where Hong Kongers, Singaporeans,   or even South Koreans vastly outperform them.   Maybe their curriculum is not up to date - not 
enough skills relevant to the modern economy? The second, Taiwan's most productive people exit 
the system and go be productive elsewhere. Brain   Drain is a consistent issue for every country in 
the world except America. But Taiwan is especially   vulnerable because of the presence of nearby China 
where strong language and societal ties abound. The third, Taiwan's companies operate in 
industries where labor productivity cannot   be easily leveraged. Taiwan's companies 
are mostly legacy hardware manufacturers   (or small service businesses like 
restaurants) rather than software producers. Software has been a huge boost to labor/economic 
productivity because of its high operating   leverage. That means that one productive 
person can generate many multiples of output.   Finance is another example of an industry 
with very high operating leverage - you don't   need to invest in a factory to generate 
millions of dollars of financial fees. The fourth theory: The data 
is more complicated than it   at first seems and we need to 
go deeper. Let's go deeper. We looked at this globally unproductive 
labor force and broke it down using two   big pivot points: Age and sex. And something 
that jumped out has to do with age and tenure. Taiwan's older generations are not 
as well educated as its younger   generations - where virtually everyone has 
a college degree. The older generations,   they basically have a high 
school education and that is it. However it turns out that their labor wage as 
compared to their productivity is quite favorable.   In other words, Taiwanese companies 
are paying these tenured people   very well especially in 
contrast with younger people,   who can be considered basically underpaid for 
the marginal labor productivity they generate. Because these large Taiwanese 
companies either cannot afford   to or will not pay their younger people, smaller 
Taiwanese companies do the same. The result is   that Taiwan's younger generations are no longer 
as socially mobile as their previous peers. This is a tougher nut to crack. These 
older generations, are they being paid   so disproportionally because Taiwanese work 
culture respects tenure and seniority above all? Or because they know more about 
the idiosyncrasies of each company   (i.e., where all the bodies are 
buried) and can keep it running. And can you legally justify asking older people 
to leave their jobs just because they are   overpaid - just so that can be replaced by younger 
people? That sounds like age discrimination to me. Again, I won't say that this is a unique case. 
This effect is happening all over the world. And   each of the Asian Tigers have their own problems. 
Let's not single out Taiwan as this unique case.   I have said this before, but I think every 
country in the world save the United States   needs to worry about wage-based brain drain 
of some sort taking their best workers. I want to write more on such economic 
issues in Taiwan down the line.   But I want to leave you guys 
with a thought that I have been   thinking about lately - especially in 
light of the recent global recession. I was reading about Hong Kong's labor-capital 
situation - which to me is especially dire - and   came across a real interesting theory. You 
know how they say that China's populace   is not politically or socially engaged because the   government has been able to deliver 
lasting economic benefits right? What happens when a government cannot do that? 
What's the reverse of that? That's Hong Kong -   where the economy and government has been utterly 
unable to improve its people's living standards. What this failure does is to create a generation 
of young people who have "given up" on being able   to live a materialistic life: The traditional 
material goods associated with success.   Instead they focus on non-materialist goals.   Like democracy, freedom of expression, or 
social justice. And if you are running a   government looking to avoid social unrest at 
all costs, that's the last thing you want. What kind of values of today’s recession 
generation will show in the future? Taiwan   and the world abroad.