- [Austin] Hello and
welcome to a very bad idea. - So, Austin is using this really interesting contraption for this video that involves this backpack that you may have seen from Mystery Tech, but that's not even the
best part about this because it has pole sticking out of it that has a GoPro attached to it and the GoPro is attached
to a drone racing headset. - [Austin] So while I'm building this PC, the only thing I can see
is what the GoPro sees, which is what you're about to see. - [Wes] All right and here
we go. Try not to vomit. - [Austin] Oh god, what the? Wow that's crazy dude. Now as you might imagine from
a shoulder mounted GoPro, if you're prone to dizziness, you may want to be a little bit careful. This video, especially
with me in the headset, but especially when it comes
to you watching the video back, is a little bit shaky at times. So just a fair warning, if
you're prone to dizziness, you may wanna skip this one. - [Wes] Do you wanna
get used to it by maybe- - [Austin] No, I'm going
to go straight for it. Okay so I am grabbing the first box. Picking up the first box. This is freakin' ridiculous. How? Oh, oh god. My sense of perspective is so far off. The rules are very simple, our wonderful sponsor Micro Center, has graciously provided a
number of parts for the build. We have a Ryzen 5, you can
see this, 30 3600 right? Ryzen 5 3600. And all I need to do is get it
together and get it to post. I don't need to install
Windows in third person because I would be here
all day and so would you, but if I actually get
this computer to post and all the components to show up, I will consider that to be a victory. Okay, let me just try to open a box first. Can I actually open a box? Oh I need a knife. - [Ken] Oh no. - [Austin] Do you trust me with a knife? - I have this morbid
curiosity to see how you do. Oh no. Oh god. - [Austin] Oh look at that. - [Ken] Oh okay. - [Austin] No problem. I'm gonna open up a bunch of boxes now that I'm here and I'm armed. Oh boy. - [Ken] Austin looks like
the (beep) serial killer I've ever seen. - [Austin] Wait I need my case. So this is a Fractal case of some kind. I can't actually read it from here. (Austin groans) Ow it's the Define S2. Okay oh no don't hit the camera. Don't hit the camera okay. Oh oops. Well, that's just never gonna be found. (Ken laughs) So what is that? Is that for the... Oh that's for this. Can you give me a screwdriver? - [Ken] You can get it. - [Austin] You can't
give me a screwdriver? - [Ken] No there's one in the table. I feel I have to help this
old man cross the street. - [Austin] Okay that's a camera. - [Ken] Yeah that's very much a camera. - [Austin] Oh it's in the This Is set. Cool, glad all my tools
are very well prepared. - Okay let's be clear here, I did not hide the screwdriver. He took it from the
set and brought it over to the This Is side of the
room that's not my fault, I'm not even going to
say it's Matt's fault. That's just Austin forgetting
where he put his stuff. He needs to put stuff
back where they belong. Boy can trip for all I care. - [Austin] Oh what the fu-?! These all look the same!
These all look the same! No! So this is that's big
Phillips, all right smaller. - [Ken] Almost looks like
you're listening to them without any context. - [Austin] So something different between what you're able to see with
the GoPro footage on YouTube and what I'm able to see is the fact that I have a headset in my way and while it is a fairly nice display and it works well for drone racing where you need to see a tree coming, when I'm working on a PC and I'm looking for tiny little details, the fidelity just isn't there and on top of that the
color inside the headset is a little bit different as well. The blacks, for example,
when I look at the case, the shadows are just black. I don't really see any detail. I was feeling confident. I was really feeling confident, but the more I have to
do these little things, the more I just wanna not
do this video any more. I'm just realizing that
this was a terrible idea, and I don't know why I signed up for this. - [Ken] Well, you didn't sign up for it. Our sponsor of this
video, Micro Center, did. - Thanks to the wonderful
sponsor of today's video, Micro Center, I can tell you all about their brand new custom
PC build configurator. So all you need to do is go to
this link in the description, or it's just easily
available on their site, and you can very quickly pick all the components that you
need for your own PC build. So you can start out and
plug a couple of things in and it will have a full
compatibility guide to tell you what will work, what won't, and on top of that if you need any help, the Micro Center forums are
available for you as well. Once you've picked out
all of your accessories and peripherals, you also
can opt to allow Micro Center to build your PC for you, which of a very reasonable price, they will do all the installation and get your PC 100% good to go. Regardless of how it's built,
they do have a showcase where once your computer is all set, you can show it off to the
world and, alternatively, take a look at what everyone
else has been building. There's also a PC Build
Showcase Contest going on. So through the month of July, if you submit your custom
build to the showcase, a single winner will be selected to receive a $500 gift card. Now I'm gonna go back to third person and not following any of
their wonderful sound advice. So my first task will be to
install the power supply. - [Ken] Oh. (Austin laughs) - [Ken] Good job. - [Austin] Dude my depth
perception is terrible. Okay so that's one. I almost caught that though. Where is my, where is my PCI power? Did I drop it? Oh I did drop it didn't I? Oh look at that. Can't put one over on me. So cable management not
gonna exist in this system. (Ken laughs) - [Ken] What, you don't wanna try? - [Austin] If it powers
on, it will be a miracle. There we go. All right, c'mon, there we go. Oh my god, this is so hard. Holy. (beep) This is no longer fun. - [Ken] (laughs) Yeah we passed the point of this being fun and now
we're just watching you suffer. - [Austin] I can't believe
I have an AIO to install. - [Ken] You all right there, bud? - [Austin] I'm fine. - [Ken] It's just- - [Austin] I'm closing my eyes now. - [Ken] Oh well, I guess
that that's a way to rest. - [Austin] This is my break. - [Ken] Makes sense. - [Austin] I have one
screw in the power supply and that's gonna be enough for now. Okay, I'm gonna put this off to the side and I'm gonna try to
build the motherboard. I need to be careful though because if I sort of
ruin the pens on the CPU, I'm gonna be in deep trouble. Which direction is that? Is that Ryzen? Yeah, that's Ryzen up okay. (Austin breathes deeply) Yes! Yes! Yes! I am the Ryzen master! - [Ken] That's the first thing
that has gone right so far. - [Austin] Is that lined up? And it feels like it's lined up. - [Ken] You go it. You got it. Yeah there you go. One more to go. - [Austin] Oh, that's
actually a good angle. I think I got it. (Austin growls) Next where am I gonna install my M2 drive? Under here I'm assuming, right? You know what's funny,
after the power supply, I was feeling really down and dejected, but now I'm doing the easy stuff. This is much, much simpler. SSD is over here. I'm just gonna rip it open 'cause I'm not using the
knife anymore than I have to. So I'm gonna just get
my head out of the way. There we go okay. There we go. This is so dumb. This is literally the best way to do it 'cause I can actually reach. Okay so line this up right here. Come on, come on. There
we go. There we go. Oh no, oh god, c'mon dude. What am I doing wrong here? It looks like its going in,
but it doesn't feel right. Can you give me some guidance? Am I like what's, where am I at right now? - [Ken] I mean you're kind of there. - [Austin] What happened? - [Ken] The stand off
is in the wrong spot. - [Austin] Oh, I did put
it in the wrong spot, oh. - [Ken] For as much as it's fun seeing Austin suffer, I can
only do that for so long. One I'm kinda running on the clock. I get paid by the hour, but on the flip side of
that, Austin's a friend, and some times we gotta help our friends even if it burns us on the inside. - [Austin] The longer I
spend in this headset, the less I think it's cool and the more I just get frustrated. For me, especially as someone
who knows how to build a PC, it's incredibly frustrating
to spend all this time trying to do some minute little detail and I can't do it right. This should be so simple and yet I'm consistently failing, which is making more frustrated, which that compared with
the third person build just kind of the longer
I wear the headset, the less like I don't
wanna say nauseous I feel, but I start to feel less and
less attached to my body. All this stuff over time is really, really adding up
to a very unhappy Austin. Ow - [Ken] Oh. - [Austin] There ya go. Those ports look pretty good to me. Oh god. oh, oh I'm being defeated. I can't give up. Oh I'm not giving up. I'm gonna do this. C'mon yeah! Thread it! Thread it! Thread it! Thread it! What the fu-? What? Where's even the screw? What? Oh it fell out! I thought I had it in, then I realized it came
back out on the bit. Oh god. - [Ken] Hopefully that will bite. - [Austin] Feels like it. - [Ken] Yeah okay. - [Austin] Yes! - [Ken] Okay so- - [Austin] Okay I'm
done, one screw's fine. This headset is legitimately
running out of battery and if I'm gonna be completely honest, if I'm in this headset for much longer, I think I'm gonna have some serious like I think I
legitimately need a break. So we're gonna stop, recharge the headset. I'm gonna come at this
with a new game plan and tomorrow, I'm gonna finish this build. Now I'm about to rejoin the real world. Wow oh dude that is one
of the hardest things I have ever done for a video in my life. Wow everything's so close. That screen is so bright
my eyes have adjusted so, it actually feels dark, oh. Yesterday sucked so,
today my plan is twofold. First of all, clear mental state. My second tactic is very simple, cut all the corners. Today, I'm gonna do the bare minimum 'cause all I need to do
is get this PC to post. If I can do that, I've won. So actually, where do I install
a hard drive on this guy? Oh, that sounded bad. That sounded like a lot
of screws just fell out. Wait hang on, is my
motherboard still in place? Okay that's fine. Okay so I assume I can put
a hard drive in back here. Okay so how does that attach? Does this screw in somewhere? Okay, I'm just gonna just
do one of those things where I'm just gonna close
my eyes and do it by feel. Yep, there we go. Okay, got one. So this is definitely a
little loose, but it stays and that's all I care about. All right, let's go. C'mon, there you go. There you go. That is horrible! - [Ken] But dude, this, this
thing is, this thing is, that's royally not screwed in. - [Austin] Fine. Use my left hand and push
it, push it, push it. Yeah, one things plugged in! Who hates doing this in third person? Okay that's me. Anyway, so a little tip
that I've been doing is closing my eyes. So it's not just about,
you know, trying to rest, which is definitely a
big part of it, right? I mean after an hour, an
hour and a half, two hours inside the headset,
I'm mentally exhausted, but even beyond that a lot of times I feel like I can actually
install these components and find these screws
just by closing my eyes and feeling for it. Like the GoPro almost
was lying to me, right? I look at it, I put my
finger where I think I am, and I know that I am
actually like a half an inch or an inch off, right? Like that perception of
where my visual hand is going is different than where my
hand is going in real life. So really pretty frequently
through out this process, I find myself just closing
my eyes, re centering, keeping myself from being too frustrated, and ultimately relying
on my sense of touch, and my sort of analytical brain
to think of where things are to actually get things accomplished because mm-mm (negative)
it's not it's not pleasant. Not pleasant. Power's actually looking pretty good now. So I think it actually
may be time for the AIO. The most complicated aspect of the build really to me feels like it's going to be installing this AIO. - [Ken] A lot of things can go wrong. He can touch the thermal paste. Lay out stuff could be wrong. what there are two fans on that thing? There's at least eight
points of failure already. If one power supply took him 20 minutes, we might be here for an hour. - [Austin] So if I do it like here. So I do it like this, yeah like that. Okay so if this is somewhere like this, this is like this, right? I think ah that cable
bend feels bad though. Kay so now, that looks right. Yeah there we go. Am I in the right ball park right now? - [Ken] Yeah. - [Austin] There we go. - [Ken] Yeah. - [Austin] Kay. - [Ken] You screw it in
and then it'll all lock. - [Austin] All right, I think we just got a big hurdle for the
build taken care of now. Get this AIO tightened down. Next, I need to figure out the fans. (Ken laughs) I'm gonna say we're gonna go this way. Well yeah that feels about right, huh? Yeah! Okay I'll just say that's
okay for the very moment. Whew All right fans are now installed. Now we just need to get that top panel off and get this installed. Did it pop or I feel a rivet here? Do you have any idea how this comes off? Are those, are these screws? No that is a screw, right? Are these three screws or
are these three rivets? Oh! Thanks, Ken. Whew (Austin breathes deeply) All right (Austin breathes deeply) Okay let's go. - [Ken] Up, oh, oh. - [Austin] No down, right? - [Ken] Up, up, up, up, up. - [Austin] All right. Oh
man. Oh my neck's feeling it. (Metal drops) That
probably wasn't important. - [Ken] Down, up. Yep, left. - [Austin] Oh is that actually in? Wait are you tryin' to tell me that we just installed an AIO? Ay! All right now let me
install the graphics card. This part, cross my fingers,
should be pretty easy. Dude I'm closing my eyes
so hard through this. It's crazy how for a
third person PC build, it's so much easier
just to close your eyes. There's nothing holding it back, right? Oh yeah there. Okay it feels like it's in. - [Ken] That (Ken laughs) - [Austin] Did I just put it
in the wrong slot or something? (Ken laughs) - [Ken] This is incredibly
painful to watch. - [Austin] I know. - [Ken] There are more,
there are more cables. There. - [Austin] Thanks for taking pity on me. Now I give Ken a lot of (beep). Most of it I think is completely deserved, but in this particular scenario, he has done me multiple solids. It's rare for Ken to take pity on me, but when those rare
opportunities do come up, I would be a fool not to
graciously accept his help as I can't put a screw in a stand off. Also I want to take
this stupid headset off so I'll take help from
(beep) if I have to. - [Ken] That one can't go in the cut. - [Austin] Just censor
that one. It's fine. Everyone will wonder
who I'm talking about. Oh, oh, oh that's it, that's it. Okay so I think we're almost set. Let's plug this thing
in. It's just gonna work. Huh? There we go. Okay. Monitor, uh oh, I'm getting
a flashing battery sign on my headset. We don't have another
battery so that means if I don't finish this up, I
have to do it totally blind. All right c'mon, c'mon, c'mon. Key board, that feels like a key board. Kay let's go. Run this really quick. And looks like USB. Of course I put it in the wrong way first. Power cables, power cables,
power cables, power cables. Plug it in. Dude, this battery
light is getting angrier and angrier at me. All right, I need an HDMI. Is there any HDMIs here? There's an HDMI down here if I remember. C'mon help me out with an HDMI at least. Fine, I see how it is. I'm gonna make it all the way back. Very dark back here. Hope there's nothing super sharp. Give me a cable, give me a cable. Why do all cables look the same? Okay that's a display port. Display port, I'll take it. I like that you came over
here to pretend to help me, but you didn't actually help me. - [Ken] Oh no, I'm just here to observe. - [Austin] Oh okay. Runs back here. Light is now blinking
even more furiously at me. Okay we're just gonna boot the build like this. Kay. Oh, I can see some things now. See some things now. C'mon one of these things has to boot it. Wait is it on? Oh it's on! My fans aren't connected, whatever. Oh yeah, I forgot to turn on my AIO fan. Oh nothing is, oh god,
none of this is plugged in. Whatever, it'll post. Oh no, oh no, my headset's dying. It's getting darker. Dude like really it's just
getting like darker and darker and the fans are going down. It's like the headset's
letting me know it's dying. - [Ken] It's like wasted
in Grand Theft Auto. - [Austin] Oh and I'm dead.
I literally can't see. My battery just died. - [Ken] You died the way you lived. - [Austin] Did I do it? I mean I'm done Like I either succeeded
or I failed right now there's no turning back. (Austin gasps) It worked! It worked! It worked! I did it! One terabyte hard drive
or two terabyte hard drive 500 gig M2, two eight gig
sticks of RAM, Ryzen 5 3600, 70 degrees doing absolutely
nothing with zero fans. I did it! I built a PC in third person! There's so many things
that could've, should've, and did go wrong with this build. There's been a lot of videos I've done. There have been a lot of weird challenges and things I've had to do, but very little has felt as
rewarding and as promising and as just fulfilling as completing it with literally zero seconds to spare. I mean I just can't even
wrap my head around that. So, is it possible to build
a gaming PC in third person? Yes, yes it is. Is is possible to go check
out our wonderful sponsor, Micro Center? The link in the description
where you can build a PC that's actually properly well done? Yes, it absolutely is. Definitely be sure to go check them out. Thank you to Micro Center
for sponsoring this madness and thank you for watching. Subscribe. And if you excuse me, I'm
gonna go fix everything, Like literally everything.