- Hey guys, this is Austin. 2018 has been a great
year for smartphones. The Pixel 3 is killing
it on the camera side. We've got the OPPO Find X, which might be the coolest design yet, and we have the good old Pocophone, which at $300 has kinda changed the game. I just realized that this is a blue phone on a blue background. Does that look weird? Wait, I'll hold it in this hand. The Pocophone, it's changing the game. For real though, this phone
has changed the way a lot of smartphones are being sold right now. Previously the OnePlus really
was kind of like the standard of the, sort of, benchmark phone at a much cheaper price, right? So you get all the flagship specs, but usually at a couple
hundred dollar discount. However, this year the Pocophone is doing the exact same thing, but it's something close to $300. While most phones at this price point have significantly slower internals than the flagships of the world, that's where the Pocophone
definitely differs. Inside, it has the exact
same Snapdragon 845 processor as in the $1,000 Galaxy Note9. The battery, again, the exact
same size as that Note9, and when you take a look at the design, it's fairly similar to
the notch on the iPhone. And while yes it is made of plastic, when you consider that all
of this is coming in a phone that's just a little bit over $300, it is seriously impressive. That's where this comes in. The brand new Nokia 7.1, which at $350 might just
be able to go head to head. The biggest difference here is in build. So the Pocophone does come in
a couple of configurations. This is the Armored Edition
with the aramid fiber back, and you also have the cheaper plastic. But neither of these really can hold up to the glass and metal of that Nokia. This looks so much nicer. Not only does it have that glass, but it's also made out of aluminum, and personally, as far as I'm concerned, it feels a lot nicer, right? Sure they definitely spent
a lot more of the budget on the build quality versus the internals, but you spend all day holding the phone. I do think that's an
important consideration. Of course, though none of
this really matters too much if you put these phones in a case. As much as I like the
feeling of the Nokia, it is a lot more fragile right? If I drop the phone, I'm gonna shatter the
back more than likely. Whereas with the Pocophone,
might be plastic, but if I scratch it whatever. I guess not whatever, but I don't have to
replace the entire phone as apposed to this guy. Considering that both
phones are pretty cheap, the screens are not bad at all. The Pocophone is a little bit bigger. Although, they're about
the same resolution. The main difference here
is with the speakers. Neither of these phones
sound all that great. So the main issue is that they both have a single bottom firing speaker, which is a little tinny and easy to cover. But the good thing is that they both have our friend jack, headphone jack. That headphone jack is useful for the sponsor of today's video, Massdrop and their excellent
AKG M220 Pro headphones. Do you see how smooth that was? - [Ken] Wow! - I know right. Headphone Jack approves. These have quickly become some
of my favorite headphones, especially when you consider
that right now on Massdrop, they're only $35. With a wide soundstage thanks
to the semi-open design, not only do they sound way better than you would expect for the price, but on top of that they're comfortable. They're fairly lightweight. They have replaceable ear
cups as well as a cable. It's a really, really solid package. Really, really, not just really solid, really, really solid. Because I know adjectives
and adverbs and thesauruses. Massdrop wanted to make
a deal just for you guys, so for the next 30 days, you
can pick these up for only $35. If you've been in the market for some decent audiophile grade headphones, definitely be sure to go check them out at the link in the description of this video. The real difference
between these two phones is in performance. Run them through
Geekbench, and you will see that there is a massive
lead for the Pocophone. It is really playing
in a different league. It also has the advantage of a heat pipe to help keep the phone
cool while you're gaming, and on top of that, the
Pocophone has more RAM, six gigs versus four. There isn't as big of
a real-world difference in performance as you might expect, but it is very clear to
me that the Pocophone is a superior performer. And that goes a long way, especially if you wanna use
this phone for a few years. It should be able to keep up. It also helps that the Pocophone has a significantly bigger battery. 4,000 milliamp hours
versus 3,000 on the Nokia. Now at this point it might
seem like the Pocophone is the very obvious winner, but there's one key area
that the Nokia has over it, and that is software. So this is using Xiaomi's
MIUI on top of Android 8.1, which is a little bit of skinned version of Android shall we say. Whereas this is completely stock
version of Android 9.0 Pie, and it is Android One compatible, which means that this is
guaranteed at least two years of solid software updates. Whereas the Pocophone,
it's got an update so far, but who knows how long that will last. Now software can be a subjective thing, and maybe you might like
some of the extra features or the way that they've
skinned the Pocophone, but as far as I'm concerned, I will definitely take
stock Android any day and the very least, I would wanna put a launcher on the Poco. Around back, both have a similar setup with a 12 megapixel main camera
as well as a depth sensor for portrait mode and for
looking like you have two cameras on the back of your phone. Honestly, both are totally usable, but I will give a slight
edge to the Pocophone. Not only does it consistently
give really nice results right out of the box, but on top of that, I think a lot of people just
will prefer these slight tuning of the image that Poco is doing. The Nokia looks fine, but I do feel like I trust the Pocophone just a little bit more, and that goes especially in low light. The Nokia does have a
little bit of an advantage when it comes to selfies, but as far as video goes, again, I'm gonna give it to the Pocophone. That 4K video actually
looks really impressive. At least here in the
U.S. both of these phones are easily available on Amazon, links in the description. But the main difference here is that while the Nokia does come
with a warranty here, the Pocophone actually doesn't
have any U.S. warranty. Your results will vary based
on what country you're in, but that might be a deal
breaker for some people. The build quality and
especially the software is really impressive on the Nokia, but I have to give this
one to the Pocophone. Not only is it a great overall package, but with the hundreds of
dollars you're gonna save versus a bigger, more expensive flagship, you could even buy yourself a pair of shiny new Massdrop headphones, available right now (laughing)
link in the description. (funky music) Link in the description. Go check (laughs).