- Hello, welcome to my brand new office. Now that we have finally
moved out of the old space, I actually have this
entire office to set up, to do lots of work, to do lots of video creation. (laughs) Who am I kidding? I need a chill spot to
be able to watch videos, play games, and pretend to do work, while Jared's out there doing actual work. So it's all thanks to our good friends over at Govee who are
sponsoring this video, who are providing not only their original, sort of, immersion backlight, but also they've got the
brand new Backlight T2. What's neat about this, is that this actually takes advantage of a dual camera setup to give you a fully immersive TV setup. While I have a lot of work to do to actually build out the office, the first thing you want to do is focus on the TV, which we have chosen because it is almost exactly
the right size for this wall. Let's get this thing started. So, we've already got the TV, which this is again, a 65-inch TV. Now, Govee were kind enough to send out not only their original
version of the Immersion, but also the T2. So, the T2 is I think, what we're going to actually be using. Obviously, you know,
this is just the package but you can, kind of,
see the idea here, right? If you have a very colorful scene, you'll be able to have your TV, kind of, almost blend into the background, especially if you have
sort of narrower bezels. And what's nice about the Govee setup is that it doesn't require you to lose any performance, right? So, a lot of other sort of setups that require like an
HDMI box and what not. Yes, they work directly, but the problem is you lose
some features like HDMI 2.1, or you can't run the actual apps inside your TV or something. This is universal. Anything that is on your TV, it will be able to replicate with the RGB strips behind. So, this is our PC. - Do you try it? - We'll talk about what's
inside the PC later. Let's see if it fits first. That's. - [Jared] See? - Oh dude, look at this. - [Jared] No test fitting
required (laughing) - Look at this. There's not even a finger's worth of gap. So inside we've got ourselves a 3080 Ti. We also have a 12900KF, as well as, how much RAM did you put in here? - [Jared] 32 gigs. - 32 gigs. Fun fact, this is going
to be the first time I've basically ever had my own office. Even when I like, worked at home, I didn't really have like, it was a more of like a shooting space. But this is actually
like, my proper office. (sniffing) Smells like quality. (sniffing) And adhesive. So the first step is going to be just wiping down this surface, which I think is actually
pretty important. Because you imagine, if you're going to put these like, sort of, strips with adhesive, you don't want it to get stuck or you don't want dust to
make it sort of fall out. This installation is
pretty straightforward. They've already kind of,
pre-measured the strips. You don't have to cut or do anything. It's literally already designed. (taps fingers) Dude, this adhesive is great. Like I know they've got the clips here, just for a little bit of extra safety, but like, they're not
massively necessarily. That's already like, basically done. All right, let's do the bottom part, and then honestly, we're done. Look at that. - [Jared] That was amazingly pain-free. - I mean, I think it's mostly because we're really talented and skilled, but also, I think Govee did a great job of designing some high
quality strips here. Like yes, of course, they're sponsoring this video, but that was way simpler than I thought. So with our strip installed, the next thing is to actually
hook up the control module, which really just needs power, and it's got two USB-Cs, one for the light and one for the camera. So I'm just going to put this module right in the middle here. Like, this is a really neat setup, especially if you're
comparing this to the camera that was set up in the original Govee T1. This does not need any kind of sticker. So it's actually got
like, a weighted base, which means that all you need to do is line up in the middle, done. No adhesive, nothing. And if you ever need to take it off, move your TV or for whatever reason, you can just pick it right up. Also, I like the fact that they're using these two, super wide angle lenses. Let's make sure this all works before we cable manage anything else, but honestly we're done. Oh, look at that. So we actually have a
live feed from the camera. - [Jared] That's so cool. - So let's start, right
here, and right here. Calibration successful. Upgrade the firmware, and we're pretty much good. While this is updating, why don't we actually get
the rest of the setup going? So the next step here, is going to be getting some audio going. So what we're going to do is something a little different than what I typically do
for these kind of setups. So we're actually going
to be using a soundbar with a couple of satellite
speakers and a sub. For a room this size, we don't need a massive
amount of power, right? Just having a little bit
of that surround sound, I think, is all we really need. Because if I crank this thing, everyone's going to get mad. We've got ourselves the sub and we've got ourselves the soundbar. Oh, this actually, this is going to fit pretty well. And the fact that it's got
the upwards firing Atmos. While, I think on a soundbar, the advantage you get with Atmos is certainly a little limited, because while you do get
that sort of upward firing it's not going to be
anywhere near as strong if you had actual like, speakers in the ceiling or something. But, it's certainly not going to hurt. All right, my friends, this setup is starting
to look much better, ignoring all the stuff (woman screaming) that has not been unpacked or whatever. But the most important part of the setup is looking much better. So this, is what the
Govee T2 is all about. And you can see, especially
with this really cool backdrop, I mean, the actual sync and the colors look incredibly dope. But that's not all we have for the setup. While this is, of course, the most important part, Josh, would you mind? Actually, Josh? - Hey. - Do you have some extra things for me? - I have quite a few. - I actually didn't know until we started working on this video. Josh has a ton of Govee
stuff at his apartment, who he very graciously tore down and let me borrow for this video so we can actually try some stuff out. Is this a Govee tree? - So, this is not a Govee tree. (Austin laughs) All of the goodies are in here, but I'll explain later. (indistinct) All right, Austin. So here, I mean you can take a, take a quick peek, you know? - Okay. - [Josh] The non descript bag of lights. - Oh, this just needs just
a little splash, right? - Exactly, so we got two of these. These are just all my personal products. I don't have the packaging
for this anymore. So excuse all the wires. - Holy. - Oh, that's, that's the big one. - What is going on here? - This is what? The glide light. And you can connect all of these together. Govee had the whole lot of options for us. And you can customize these light bars. We have six different light bars. Look at this. you just clip them together. - Where are we going to put all this? I don't even think there's going to be room for everything. - So, I mean, like I said, we might not have room for everything, but maybe something like this. Maybe put a little under glow underneath the, underneath the couch. Might be able to
accomplish that with this. - We put something actually
inside the cabinet, because right now we have
our custom gaming PC, but it's like completely
dark and invisible. Like you just can't
see it behind the crate because it's like, just
very dark in there. - No, we definitely have options for that. - So what's this guy? - So yeah, so this is just, this lamp is what I found on Amazon. The Govee product, its just a light bulb inside. This is a smart LED bulb. - [Austin] Oh, okay, okay. - So yeah, simple enough. You can plug this into literally any, sort of, lamp source that you have. Like I said, you can sync it all with your different colors and it works, works really, really well. - Theoretically, if we can use what the T2 is getting as far as the image from the TV and pass that RGB information through to other lights in the room. Theoretically we could get a whole bunch of the room all synced
up on the exact same, sort of RGB thing. - There's some customization you can do, also specifically picking a color palette. Well, let's say, you know, let's say we're turning
gamer room into romantic room and you want to get
some, some pink and red. - This took a turn, I said to you today to
come help with some RGB. (indistinct) - All right, all right, lets get, lets get started. (lighthearted music) - Okay, so we've got a little bit more done on the setup. So I don't think we're
fully done with things but we've got the little tree here. We've got the little lights to, kind of, splash them on the wall. So I'm feeling pretty good about things, but let me actually show
you what it looks like, when it's fully up and running. So, I'm going to pull
up a Denki video here. - Oh. - [Austin] I've heard Denki,
you makes terrific videos. - [Ken] No it doesn't. - That looks pretty cool though, right? You can see the actual
sync of the lights behind. - [Josh] Woo. - [Ken] Oh, I'd hang out in here. - [Austin] We can do a
whole lot more than that because we also have
the TV and the stereo. - Oh, let's take a listen, let's take a listen. (trumpet music) We should be here more often. Listen, we can, we can get used to this. ♪ They get blickies poppin'♪ ♪ Aint no options for my partners ♪ ♪ So they resort to scams and robbin ♪ - Okay, I'll pause copyright
music over for a second. For such a lightweight
sort of setup, right? Because we basically just got the sound bar in front of us. We've got the two satellite
speakers and the sub right underneath the couch here. I don't mind bothering
everyone in the office. - I don't mind. - Matt, do you care when
I'm cranking it in here? - I'm on the other side of the building (laughing) - I can't hear anything
from over here, so. - We're not just here to
look at some pretty lights. This is a place for camaraderie. This is a place for friendship and for forging the bonds
through intense games of. - [Matt] Fortnite? - Wait, what are we playing? - We're not playing Fortnite. No, no. Actually we've got a bunch
of emulators on here. So it's one of the things that this PC, is that we've got an emulator for almost everything. - [Ken] Legally obtained games. - Yes, we, we juiced the
Wii and we put it in the PC. - [Ken] You juiced the Wii? - We juiced the Wii. - You milked the Wii, you know? (laughs) - What could possibly go wrong? Let's smash. - Wrong couch. - All right. - I have to remember how to play - Dude. So we're all in the same boat. No one knows how to play. - (indistinct) - [Austin] Yeah, Xbox
Control is going to trip me. - [Josh] Get the smash thing. - [Austin] I'm getting,
I'm getting, I'm getting. - [Josh] I want to smash. Wait? (Austin screaming) - [Josh] I'm button mashing. I don't know how to use it. - [Austin] I'm going to
steal it from you, Josh. You're not going to have that anymore. - Everyone ready to go to the Kirby Cafe? - [Josh] Get me out of the pot. (crowd shouting) - [Austin] It's getting spicy in here. Look how good this RGB
actually looks though. I mean, especially when you look at how well it helps the TV to, kind of, blend in. - The RGB looks great, when I am about to wreck Mario. - [Ken] I've only seen him
on you, on (indistinct). (cheering) (indistinct) - Yes, I got it, I got it at the end. (laughing) - [Austin] Lets go baby. Smash champion of the
world right now. Thank you very much to Govee for sponsoring this video and enabling the office to
turn into Austin's smash zone.