- Hello and welcome to the
ultimate gaming, streaming, and recording battle station. So, thanks to our good friends at LG who have very kindly sponsored this video, we're about to build a setup which is not only ready for PC games, but also for the next
generation of consoles. So, Wes, it starts out
with the LG OLED 65GX, which is not only one of
their highest-end OLEDs but also it's one of the
ones with the flush mount, so it almost looks like
one of the wallpaper TVs. But beyond that, we're completely renovating
this part of the office. - Yeah. So we've already gone ahead and we've replaced the boring white wall with slightly less boring artificial wood. - It looks good. You did
a good job with this. - No one has to know it's
artificial wood, it's real. - So essentially what we're going to do is we're gonna mount the TV up here, we're gonna move pretty
much everything here. What we wanna do with this setup is have everything run into our OLED. But the idea is that this setup
should be completely ready for the PS5 and the
Series X later this year. But the best part is not only
can we play all these games, but we're also going to
be able to stream them and record them for videos. Essentially what we need to
do is we need to figure out the TV being mounted here,
we'll have a PC down here, a monitor, and our desk down here. And then we'll have, probably
on this piece of furniture, we'll have where all of the consoles sit, and then they'll all
be routed into the TV. - Correct, and we will actually
be here holding up the TV with our hands just like
we're holding it up right now. - So one of the nice things about the 65GX is that it comes with its
own wall mount bracket. Now, unlike most TVs where you would use just a standard VESA mount and then you would drill it into the wall, this is actually meant
to be a flush mount. So if you've seen the
LG wallpaper OLED TVs, it's something kind of similar, in that there should be pretty much no gap between the TV and the wall, which is great 'cause gonna
look awesome for our setup. But the downside is that
we need to make sure before we drill it in and start
building the entire setup, that we know exactly where
everything is going to go, including all of our cables. - [Wes] And not only is this
gonna hold the whole TV up, I believe it's actually only two bolts that slide into there. This whole thing pops out
after it's mounted on the wall. You then sort of click the TV in and you sandwich the
whole thing up against it. - Wes, why did you spend all
of our money on HDMI cables? - Honestly, they just had the best boxes, and that's kind of how I buy cables. So we have a bunch of
them that are HDMI 2.0, that means we'll be able to do 4K60. - Yeah.
- But, for the newer consoles and for future-proofing, we
have a few HDMI 2.1 cables, which are much more expensive. So normally you would
not need one of these. The TV actually has four inputs. But for ease of use and
because we have so many things going in different directions like if we wanna do a
console right to the TV, console to capture cards and TV, you need something like a matrixer. It actually has four inputs,
but also four outputs. - [Austin] So we can take
any combination of things going into this and out. - Exactly.
- So we can send the same signal from the console
to capture card, to TV. But you can imagine when
we have the TV up here, all of our consoles, all of our lighting. Our Twitch camera, PC monitor, desk. It's gonna be really cool. - Yeah, just so we don't jinx it, we should probably just
call this the average setup. (Austin laughs) This is your average living setup.
- The average gamer paradise. Wait,  that’s Jud's thing. - The average gamer's Tuesday. - Let's fix the TV. - Yeah.
- Right. Yeah. - Probably time to stop
talking and start working. So it is day two, and we are
ready to finish up the setup. - So we'll actually hang the bracket. And this is actually held to the back with a really strong magnet. So that's why-
- Are you tryna tell me a 65-inch TV is being held up by a magnet? - Well, it's not a CRT. So, okay. - The power of OLED being
very lightweight, okay. All right, I'm sure they
know what they're doing. - Yeah, but that's why you
gotta put the spacer in so it doesn't slam shut on us. - So, you feel comfortable
with me actually tightening this up? - [Wes] Pop this guy on first
and let's see what we got. - That's pretty close. We're touch over to the right but- - Honestly, I buy that.
- Yeah. - [Wes] I think we're close enough where we should go for it.
- It's fine. - The buildings also not
particularly straight as well. - [Wes] Oh, yeah that was part of it. (Austin laughs) Yeah, compensating for the fact
that the floor is not level. - All right, all the way in? - Go for it.
- All right. (drill whirring) - [Wes] Right inside that
circle there is the magnet. So what you're gonna
wanna do is find a spot to kind of put the screwdriver
under and pop it out. Yeah, now you kind of actually just pull it away with your hands. It's gonna be a little stiff, but you should be able to do it. - Wow.
- Yeah. - So that's it. So that's as far as we can
actually pull the TV out. Oh, dude, yeah, see the
huge magnet. (laughing) - Yeah, no, it's super strong. Yeah, when I first saw this, I thought it was kind of over-engineered but after actually having it on the wall, it's one of those things that's
like engineered to the tee. - Yeah. - It's very purpose-built. - Look, when I have my brand
new LG OLED on the wall, over-engineered, definitely
what I'm looking for. I don't want like, "Ah, it kinda works." I want it to be firmly
attached to my wall. Now, let's figure out how
to get this on the wall. - Yeah, well, so you can see here, the pegs that you actually
put in a much beefier than I expected.
- Wow. I've never tried one of the wallpaper TVs. I know this obviously
isn't quite the same line, but it's related just because it has such a cool wall mount
that's included in the box. It really is meant to be
more of a display piece. But it has all the features of the high-end OLEDs that
you expect, including G-SYNC. Including 4k, 120 frames per second. Including, obviously, all the
excellent picture quality, the contrast. As far as I'm concerned, this is about the best
possible TV we could have here. This is our cable solution for this setup. This is what Wes has been
spending the last week prepping. - [Wes] Basically, I planned it out so not only can the
consoles go into the matrix, but we'll have an extra HDMI 2.1 cable, that will just be free-roaming. So if we wanna bypass
everything, we wanna do 8K60- - [Austin] Or 4K120
directly from a console. - Yeah, which this TV can handle.
We'll be able to do that. We have a direct line
from the GPU of the PC directly into the TV if we want to use- - For G-SYNC.
- And then we have an auxiliary input, that's
just gonna surface at the desk. So say that we just get some random PC in that we wanna try out,
we can just plug it in without messing up the whole system. - And because we have so
many different devices and we wanna have the flexibility, essentially the matrixer, as
big and expensive as it is, essentially allows us to say,
bo, bo, bo, bo, bo, bo, bo. I made the sound effect again. You can press the buttons
and it will switch everything in any orientation that you want. That's very cool. So this simple cable cost how much? - I think these were like
130 bucks for a 25-foot run. But it's really cool because essentially this little unit here and this little unit here
has an encoder and decoder. It just shoots the
signal over fiber optic, as fast as it can, full 48 gigabits, and then it receives it and
decodes it on the other side. But this is really the only way to do it without an amplified HDMI signal. - So we have our cables run. One of these HDMI is a little thick, so hopefully-
- A little chunky. - It actually will fit flush.
But I think we'll be okay. So, our mounting, very high. This is... (laughs) It's dense. All right, ready? And up. Up, up, up, up, up, up, up. Okay, back, back, back. Up a little higher. I can't tell.
- Toward Wes. - Toward Wes? Okay. Yep,
we got it. We got it. It's in. It's in. I'm in on this side.
Are you in on that side? - I feel like it. - It's on Wes' side.
- It's on one side. Okay. - Yeah.
- All right, let's make sure- - [Austin] Oh, see here. Hold on. Oh, that's it. I got it, got it, got it. - That's it.
- We're in, we're in. We're in.
- All right. - [Austin] Okay, gently let go. Let go. Let go. (Wes speaks faintly) No, it's okay, it's okay. - Yeah, gotta-
- We gotta lock it in. But at least in place now. (TV mount clicks) - Okay. Are they both clicked? - That one click, and I wanna double-check if this one's clicked. - I can actually reach it.
(TV mount clicks) - At this point, we have our
65GX mounted on the wall, and when they say flush
mount, they mean flush mount. This thing is all the
way up against the wall. But with our cables running here I actually feel really good about this. So essentially, now, well, we
have a lot more work to do. But for now, why don't
we get the TV fired up, run something to it, and just make sure this
is all actually working. So, with the TV hung up, now let's run through the temporary setup. So we have some of the
consoles up and running, but before we do that, shall we actually make sure the TV works and we didn't somehow horribly ruin it. - Yeah.
- Where's the remote? Actually, you know what? Wes,
would you just do the honors? Press the power button,
make sure we didn't ruin it. - Here we go. - Oh, the light turned off. And? Yes! Ah, dude, it looks so good up on the wall. And the thing about OLED. God, I feel like I'm
such a fanboy right now. The thing about OLED is, is that it has such great viewing angles that no matter where we are
in the room it looks great. So let's actually put
the TV through its paces. Austin Evans. And, of course, you
have full voice support for not only with the remote,
but you can also just say, hey, LG. Watch Mystery Tech. (upbeat music) Eh, look at that! Oh, Wes? Wes? We forgot to do the peel! Three, two, one. (gasps) Oh, it's so good. Look at that. - Oh, man. - Oh! Look at all our grime
from our fingerprints just disappearing. Look at that. Oh, it's so good. Yeah! Wow, it actually looks much better. I was already getting used
to it with the plastic. It's like, "All right, it
looks even better now!" You know what I really like about this? It looks great from no matter what angle, especially when we're shooting in here. Obviously one of the problems we're gonna have with this setup, is we wanna make sure that
we can minimize reflections. But a lot of that is gonna be once we get the full lighting
revamped done in here. But with that alpha9 mark 3 processor, what you're getting here is
incredibly nice picture quality, especially when you turn on the game mode, because you have a lot of things that will help enhance the image, but also you have a very
low latency experience too when you're ready to start gaming. So right now we have a
very temporary setup. So, not only do we have
a PS4 Pro and Xbox One X, since obviously the new
consoles aren't out yet, but this should in theory work. So we have all three of our
consoles, including the Switch, going into our matrixer, our matrix. Matrixer or matrix? - Matrix.
- Matrix. And then it is going out to the TV. We haven't taken advantage
of the extra leads right now. But theoretically if we turn
this on, switch HDMI one, we should be able to play
all of these together, and the matrix could also
kick a different signal out to our monitor. So the monitor's gonna roughly live here, obviously once we have the desk. So right now we have our
PS4 Pro and Xbox One X routed through the matrix. So PS4 is going up to
TV, Xbox is going here. So, first of all, let me
see what the latency is. Oh, that's nothing. So theoretically, can we swap them? Can you push Xbox to
TV and PS4 to monitor? - Yeah, so they're in order.
The inputs are one, two, three. And then that's output A, that's output B. So you want this guy to have
the PlayStation now, right? - Yes.
- Okay. So what output B goes to one. - One, okay.
- And actually, while we're here, we should see
how good the sync is between the two of these guys.
- Oh! So now we have the PlayStation up on both. - [Wes] Correct. - Dude, that's trippy man, look at that. - So it can be a splitter or we can route differently.
- That is so cool. Okay, wait, so now let's put Xbox on TV. - [Wes] Okay, so we would select output A. (HDMI matrix beeps) And that is input number two. (HDMI matrix beeps)
- Hey! There we go. And now we can just do tap through here. Dude, that is going to be so sick. Especially when you consider
that once we have our PC and our streaming setup really built here, we can very easily stream
from all these consoles. Instantly we can play on
them, we can capture them. And the nice thing about the OLED, if we launch, say, "Red
Dead", for example, it has a ton of features
which are helpful not only now but also going into this next generation. So this TV not only has FreeSync but it also supports G-SYNC,
the very first TV to do that. Which means that not only,
"You need to be online." Okay. One moment, please. One of the nice things about the GX, is it really does have
all the gaming features that we want for the setup. So, of course, not only
does it have HDMI 2.1 thanks to that a9 processor, which means that we get
4K, 120 frames per second. But also we have a bunch of things including not only FreeSync
but also NVIDIA G-SYNC, the first time that has
actually come to a TV. So no matter if we're plugging
in the latest consoles, the next-gen consoles, or,
of course, a gaming PC, you can get the most out of the TV. It also has a very low response
time right out of the box, and it has support for things
like auto low latency mode, which especially for those
next-generation consoles is going to be really important. As essentially the console can
say, "Hey, I’m playing a game," the TV will automatically go to game mode, automatically go to the quickest latency. So no matter what you're
playing you're going to get the best experience right out of the box. It is really cool to see these TVs with things like filmmaker
mode as well as game mode, so they can automatically take
advantage of the best modes and the best sort of frame
rates and everything, for whatever content that
you wanna watch or play. Especially once we have
the entire setup, well, (coughs) up to date. (coughs) Once we have that all
done, this'll be great. And we have a desk here. But this is so cool to have. The display hung up. It
looks so cool on the wall. Obviously, we'll hide these cables. We'll have our PC, which
we're still building, and then we'll have all of
this sort of nicely done. I'm really excited. This is gonna be a killer
setup for streaming, for gaming, for watching, videos, movies, and, of course, for chilling. Are we gonna chill? Are we're gonna just OLED and chill? - [Wes] We can, like, hang out? - What does that? Hang out? - Relax and stuff.
- You mean watch stuff, not for a video? We're just watching content
and playing games for fun? I don't think we do that here. - No. - Thanks very much for watching. Obviously, feel free to go
check out the wonderful GX TV at the link in the description. And huge shout out to LG
for sponsoring this video and enabling us to build
the ultimate setup. Stay tuned. There's a lot more we've got to do to make this thing ultimate. Including update our Xbox.