This is my office Brady, full of beautiful
memories, full of actions, full of work and also full of some maths curiosities. See this, for instance, it looks like a plain
doughnut. Let's see, it separates into two Möbius bands
which are intertwined. This required quite some skill at the, you
know, 3D printer. This is the famous Möbius band in wood, you
know, just one side and just one boundary. This is Pythagoras, we know, we're not even
sure that Pythagoras existed; for all that we know he may be a myth, but so important
myth. I bought this in Athens, one of the places
most important for us mathematicians; the place where, you know, mathematics was upgraded
from a set of recipes to solve problem into a way to access some eternal truths. One of the most important books ever – The
Elements of Euclid, here in the beautiful English edition. Look at these colours...
(Brady: Wow) Here there was an effort to bring the very
notion of reasoning to life. Look at this. This is a memory from my teaching in the Aims
Cameroon Institute. You know I go teaching in Africa every year
at least couple of weeks and it's important for me and I get a lot of joy from that. And this is a memory from there and this is
the symbol I love so much – the integral. You know, this is like an S elongated. I work in analysis, I draw integrals all the
time, so much that whenever I start working on a problem, the symbol 'integral' flashes
in my mind. You know it was Leibniz who invented this
notation – it's an S like summation. And we know the exact year and even the exact
day on which he thought of this notation – one of the most successful ever. When you think that this flash of Leibniz
now is used by hundreds of thousands of people around the world - everybody learns it in
school, and reminds us that notation is so important, and so...S is a dear letter to
me because S is the symbol of entropy on which I worked for years of my life and S is the
symbol also of integration. Look at that. This was knitted for me. This is hyperbolic crochet – it's constant
negative curvature. It's like a little bit of the hyperbolic plane. Now we know since Hilbert that there's no
way to represent the hyperbolic plane in its entirety in our limited 3-dimensional world. If you try to continue it, it will break down
- at some point it will be impossible to continue. And still, that little bit you can touch,
and it has the property that any point, any little bit has exactly the same geometry as
any other little bit – constant curvature. I'd like to show you one of the jewels of
this collection. This is the Gömböc. This took ten years to the guy who discovered
it. A solution to a big and simple problem at
the same time. Is it possible to make a shape that will be
convex, homogeneous and have only two equilibrium positions, only two – one stable and one
unstable. If I let it go from any initial configuration,
it will go back to its stable position. (Brady: Your office seems very busy, seems
very full of things. What should I read from your office?) From my office, first read that I am a busy
guy and that I receive lot of things. Books arrive here almost every day, reports,
letters, so many many things. And also, I travel a lot so everywhere I travel
there's something for me to take back. Many of these objects are associated with
memories for me. (Brady: Do they help you work? Like when you're, when you want to think,
when you want to work things out, when you want to do mathematics, is this environment
like, good for you, does it stimulate you or does it distract you, like, where do you
do your best thinking? Is it in an environment like this?) I think what is around you when you think
doesn't matter so much. What you feel matters – sounds, how comfortable
you are, the desktop, your chair – that really matters. And I think supplies of paper, having blackboard,
that also matters. And when you think deeply the rest just vanishes
in some sense. But I may have the feeling of being at home. In some situations however, when you are deeply
with your problem, you feel at home anywhere just thinking about your problem. Some of my best work was done in hotels, on
the train, and there's no rule. More important when you think is what goes
on inside rather than outside. We have some enlightening texts by Henri Poincaré
describing various illuminations arriving randomly – sometimes crossing the street,
sometimes during some walk – this also is in my experience. The best thoughts can be nearly everywhere. Then, to do your systematic work, to work
quietly and systematically, it's good to really feel in your environment, like at home. But the real (click) flash moments, they can
occur anywhere. Flash moment is most often when you are alone,
that's for sure, but some of the most important ones in my career occurred in conversation. Actually my, in my book, “Birth of a Theorem,”
first chapter is about how Clément Mouhot and I start working on the so-called Landau
damping, and there's a discussion between us (click) and there's a flash with the two
of us. It's clear that me alone or him alone, there
would have been no flash, and that determined part of our life for the two years coming.