- The XPS 13 Plus looks like Dell stole all of Apple's worst ideas five years later. But under the hood, every design decision here
supports a single ambitious goal, to cram a 14-core processor
into a 13-inch Ultrabook. Yes, this has a 14-core CPU in it that absolutely annihilates the M1 chip in the 13-inch MacBook Pro. Is that performance worth some of the interesting design decisions? It took a lot of work for
us to answer that question. So first, you'll have to sit
and listen to this message from our sponsor. - War Thunder. War Thunder is an online
military vehicle combat game that's free to play and lots of fun. Try it for free down below today and get some special bonus
items just for signing up. (upbeat music) - To accommodate an increased
CPU TDP from 15 watts all the way to 28 watts
without enlarging the chassis, the first thing to get the
axe was the function row. And this might look like
a Touch Bar rip off, but Dell's implementation
is actually both, less functional and better. The typical media control keys are now capacitive touch buttons and by hitting function, you can bring up the function row or function + escape to lock it. We occasionally found ourselves
wishing for tactile buttons, especially for escape and delete. But after a few short hours, the whole thing works pretty well and comes with a huge upside. The glass and capacitive
touch button assembly is only 1.4 millimeters thick. That is less than half the
space that traditional buttons would have occupied, which gives Dell way
more space for cooling. An additional benefit is that
this glass is transparent to RF which made the WiFi
antennas work way better. They fire both up
through the function keys and down through a little
hole in the aluminum chassis. Now we're gonna go into more depth on the CPU performance later. Spoiler alert, it's absolutely unreal. But below the function row, there's a whole lot more weirdness that I wanna look at first. Starting with the keyboard, Dell has eliminated
almost all of the space between the keys. It looks sick. But I was very concerned
about the typing experience having tried out a handful of
devices like this in the past. Fortunately, Dell has a
lot of money to spend. Apparently, they built three
production level prototypes of the keyboard just so
that they could get the dish of the keys just right. And that effort and the
many 1000s of monies that it cost to make three separate molds, in my opinion paid off. Each key has a point three millimeter dish that lets your fingers
know exactly where they are and it only took me a few
minutes to get darn near up to full speed. It's possibly one of the
most pleasing keyboards on an Ultrabook right now and it's an easy A-plus in my book. - At least if you have smaller hands. Mine, they kind of hang off the edge and even though Dell have
chamfered the aluminum here, I find it a little bit sharp. Fortunately, I have a fix and it will only take a couple seconds. (machine whirring) Oh yeah, I like that way more. Got a nice little radius here. So much better. - Anywho, below the keyboard
is presumably a touchpad. Yeah, it is. The entire palm rest area is a seamless piece of Gorilla glass with
a touchpad in the center spanning roughly this distance. Dell made prototypes with
both physical and visual cues to show the user where the touchpad was, but found that it wasn't
actually necessary. And I actually agree with them. The trackpad is large enough
that I've never managed to wander outside of it during normal use. And to take care of clicking, Dell has 10 piezoelectric
buzzers below the trackpad to simulate a click. The strength of this
feedback out of the box was a little much for me, but it can be adjusted to
your preference in Windows and feels really cool
once you get it dialed in. A sneaky benefit of this design is that if one of the piezo buzzers fails, the others around it can
actually increase their intensity and prolong the life of the
trackpad, which is super cool. Now to address the
elephant in the room, I/O. You get a single Thunderbolt
four port on this side and a single Thunderbolt
four port on this side. And that's it, there's no other sides. The biggest reason that Dell
couldn't fit a headphone jack, that's right, no headphone
jack, is that it's long. So it used to be up here, but that would force the
hinge to be considerably wider like on the older model
which would have cost us you guessed it, valuable heatsink space, no 28 Watt processor. According to Dell's research then, the majority of users now
see the headphone jack as a nice-to-have instead of a must-have. But that minority who doesn't agree gets really mad about it. And here's why I think those
people have a pretty good case. First, Windows. Microsoft's implementation
of bluetooth pairing is arguably a full decade
behind iOS and Android. So using bluetooth headphones
on a Windows machine can sometimes mean three to
10 minutes of screwing around. I mean talk about an
immersive audio experience. Over the years, I've grown
accustomed to dongles and in a laptop this size
you literally can't fit most connectors, but audio even
now is a special case to me. USB, HDMI, ethernet, all of
them are fully digital signals. But audio is analog, which is
why out of every single dongle in our office, there are this many that have
a headphone jack on them. Here's the thing, for your
headphones to sound good, you need a quality DAC or
digital to analog converter that takes the bits
from Spotify or whatever and converts it into
music in your earholes. And trust me a good
DAC doesn't come cheap. So the vast majority of dongles
out there completely omit the headphone jack as
a cost-saving measure. Also, because everything
has a headphone jack on it. Also, because the USB implementers forum is more about chill vibes man than acting like a serious standards organization, there are multiple, optional mind you, ways for audio to be
implemented over USB Type-C. Audio accessory mode, for example, turns two of the digital data
pins into analog audio pins. But that mode doesn't
happen to be supported by the XPS 13 Plus. And surprisingly, pins and
wires that were designed for high speed digital
signals don't result in great audio anyway. But the important thing
for you guys to know out of all of this is that
because of all of this tomfoolery, many dongles made for phones simply will not work on the XPS 13 Plus. Graciously, Dell does include
a dongle with a DAC unit in the box but because of
the lack of availability more broadly, you better
try not to lose it. At least until Apple also
ditches the headphone jack and all of this becomes acceptable. And they might just do that based on these performance results. Because if your goal in
buying the XPS 13 Plus is to tell your friend their
MacBook is molasses slow, I've got great news. Compared to the MacBook Pro
13-inch with an 8-core M1, the XPS 13 Plus with a Core i7 14-core is 45% faster. It's even faster than last year's XPS 15, albeit only by a hair. And as for the 1260P model, it might only have a mere 12 cores, but it still managed to blow
past Apple's best machine in this form factor. It is an Intel processor
so when loaded the temps do get into the 90s very quickly, but the little XPS 13 that
could here manage brief spells of over 50 watts and
consistently manage to dissipate a bit over 30. All without sounding like a hairdryer. Even better, you get Iris Xe graphics with 96 execution units allowing
you to play actual 3D games as long as you don't mind
lowering the graphics or the resolution a bit or
the occasional driver issue. Also, it is fast but I'm
not ready to crown it king of the 13-inch laptops yet because the Asus Flow X13 which harnesses the power
of AMD and liquid metal just arrived in our studio. Make sure you're
subscribed for that review. The screen of the XPS 13 Plus is both excellent and annoying. The 4K OLED model is fantastic to look at. Not only do you get deep blacks, but 500 nits peak brightness
means that it's useful in bright rooms as well. They even managed to cram a decent webcam with Windows Hello facial recognition into this tiny little bezel here. But the OLED screen has a
big problem, battery life. With the OLED, the XPS 13 only managed
six hours and eight minutes of battery life. Which is great for a full-size
freaking gaming laptop with a GPU in it. With the LCD screen, we were able to get a
much more Ultrabook-like nine hours and 43 minutes. That's certainly enough for all day use. But even some AMD Gaming
laptops can last a bit longer and Apple will keep
you away from an outlet for literally twice as long. Fortunately, the speakers are another area where Dell has vastly
improved the XPS 13 Plus over the last generation. The speaker count was doubled
to four with two down firing and to shooting up through the keyboard. (upbeat music) Don't expect to be feeling
incredible bass notes but for a 13-inch laptop, they
are much more than acceptable until you go past about 70% volume where things get a little weird. Between 500 and 100 hertz
there's this rattle that shows up from the upward firing
speakers exciting the keys. So in a future revision, and I hope that Dell adds some
kind of damper to the keys to prevent this. But for now, it's loud enough
at 70% and sounds good enough that you shouldn't need to pack
a bluetooth speaker anyway. One major concern I had
with the XPS 13 Plus though is repairability. Thankfully, Dell hasn't just glued the whole thing together though. Disclosure, by the way, as I
discuss repairability here. I am invested in framework laptop. Opening up the bottom, you've got easy access to
both battery and storage, neither of which are glued in, nice. The RAM is soldered on. But frankly, I think that
that's actually justifiable in a machine like this,
given how thin it is and with the removal of the
motherboard and battery, surprisingly, the
keyboard and the trackpad are also both replaceable. Unfortunately, the trackpad is glued in so it can be replaced, but I doubt any non-professionals
are going to attempt it. They haven't released any
specifics on the XPS lineup and what that's gonna
look like going forward. But I think it's safe to assume
that this won't be the only XPS 13 they're going to sell. For the last couple of years, they've been selling the old
chassis along with the new one if you wanted a cheaper or
a more expensive version. And I imagine that now they'll
slap a 12 Gen processor into the old chassis for
everyone that isn't sold on the radical design
changes of the 13 Plus. As for us, it starts at $1,300 though the one you'll
actually want will likely be a good bit more expensive than that. And it is a great little
powerhouse of a machine unless you cannot accept the
removal of the headphone jack. What you will accept though, is this message from our sponsor. - Anycubic. The Anycubic Photon M3 is a fantastic 3D printer
for entry-level users. It's affordably priced, requires minimal assembly and offers great quality
3D resin printing. It can produce big miniatures
with high dimensional accuracy and a smooth surface finish
thanks to its over seven by six by four inch max print volume. With it's 7.6 inch monochrome screen, you can print large objects
or several miniatures at once. The Photon M3 has a resolution
of 4096 by 2560 pixels which combined with its 40
micron horizontal resolution and 400:1 high contrast ratio
allows for high precision and sharp edges. The Anycubic LighTurbo matrix
light source system LED beads help to provide strong light
energy making high quality and high speed printing possible. Plus, the Photon M3 is larger
than comparable printers within the $300 price range. If you're looking to get into 3D printing, this is a great printer to help you start. Learn more at the link below. That's where they go. - If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe you like laptop content, why not check out this weird water cooler we bought on AliExpress for laptops. That's a trip, cut video.