- Hey guys, this is Austin. This is the Walmart Gaming Laptop. Now you might've seen
some of the other videos going around on some other gaming desktops which are of dubious
value and dubious quality. But this one, this one
actually might not be too bad. So what makes this special is the price. When it first went on sale only,
what, like a few weeks ago? It was $1,000, but we
picked this one up for $700 and checking the walmart.com
website right now it is available for only 600 bucks. I mean take a look at these specs: the i5 is solid, and while the 1050 might not be all that impressive, at $600, this has a lot going for it. If it actually stays $600, that is. So we get that Overpowered, a little bit of a cliche for the brand, but this box actually looks kinda cool, I gotta say, it's not bad. So first impressions are pretty decent, it has brushed metal on the front and the back panel, even
though it is plastic, seems very sturdy, especially considering how many vents are here. So while this boots up, let's take a look at what else is inside the box, which I assume, for
$600, not gonna be a lot. There's the power adapter,
which is here 120w. Now with a 1050 and Core i5 on board this is not the most
powerful of gaming laptops but should still be able to play a lot of games at pretty
reasonable settings at 1080p. So this OP brand has a
really bad rap right now, and at $1,000 this laptop does have some pretty major issues. At 600 or 700 bucks, though, it's a very different story. So take the processor, for example, it's a Core i5 8300H,
which means it's quad core, it's 45w, this is a proper
gaming CPU, no problem. The GTX 1050, on the other hand, isn't quite as powerful,
so, realistically, even though it does
have that 144Hz display, I'll talk about that in a second, it's not really going
to be capable of playing a lot of games at that
very high resolution, and especially that very high frame rate, but the thing is, it's still way better than pretty much anything
else you're finding at this price point. Looking round the laptop, we actually have a pretty decent selection of ports. So a pair of USB 3.0, SD
card, a pair of mini display as well as HDMI, we have
USB C, as well as ethernet, and one more USB 2.0. A mechanical keyboard on a gaming laptop is usually reserved for computers which are much, much more expensive. Now this is not maybe
the greatest keyboard I've ever used, it does have a little bit of that tactile feel,
but it also isn't quite as responsive as something like some of those higher end Razer Switches but that being said it's totally not bad and we have a fairly wide
range of RGB options. So, this is the really obnoxious one but if I switch over to the OP software (laughs) I mean, they've
definitely got some interesting options. Now, I don't personally
care too much as long I have a backlit keyboard I'm fine, but the keyboard situation here is really on par with much more expensive laptops, another point for the
Walmart OP Gaming Laptop. Of course, you can't build a laptop for way cheaper without some sacrifices. Now, based on those
desktops there were some actually pretty major
issues, so I'm really curious to see what's inside this guy. I will give them this: it's
easy to open up the laptop. All you need to do is
undo 16 Phillips' screws and we should be inside in no time. Oh, warranty seal! Ah ha! So, maybe there's 18 screws
and I need to remove the seal. I will say, having a warranty seal on the bottom of the
laptop, even if you want to say add RAM or something,
that's kind of ridiculous. Yeah, that's not ok. With our warranty voided,
let's see what we've got inside the laptop. That's ok, so, first of all, we've got our
two and a half inch hard drive, we've got a fairly small 46Wh battery, there's our Intel wireless card, underneath this little
flap we have a single 8GB of RAM and under
the other it is empty, so you could theoretically
upgrade this pretty easily. We also do have our 128GB NVMe SSD, or at least that's an M2, I doubt it, it's probably still SATA, but what's kind of impressive is we actually have an
entirely unused SSD slot. So, very easily you could upgrade this with another SSD, with some more memory, you could even probably
swap out this hard drive without too much trouble. So not only do we have a pair of fans, but we have three heat pipes as well as a heat sink on the
left side, on the top, another one on the top, and
another one on the side. Now I haven't gotten into any gaming yet, but especially with
only a GTX 1050 inside, this looks to be more than adequate. So if we jump into a
quick game of Fortnite, there's a few things that jump out to me. First of all, 1080p medium, we are getting 70 to 80 frames per second. Sure, it's not going
to be taking advantage of that full 144Hz refresh
rate, but it is a lot better than a normal display and
even on the Walmart website they show this is the only gaming laptop with a 144Hz screen for 999, even though now the price is 599. And speaking of the
display, it is really nice. So not only is it very vibrant, the colors especially look very accurate, no you don't, no you don't, no you don't, no you don't, no you don't,
I want to go get him. I want to go get him.
No, I'm gonna get him. - [Ken] It's not
worth it if you fight him. - [Austin] Argh! Oh, no
you don't, no you don't, no you do not, no you do not. Dude, I got a full... Yes! Yes! I did it, I did it! Hahaha! Hahahahaha! So one of the issues with
only having two gigs of RAM for that 1050 is that, for example, here in Black Ops we're almost out of RAM, I'm curious to see how well
this actually performs. So with the resolution turned down to about 900p, we are getting
a pretty playable frame rate. It's actually in the 60 to 70 range, the main issue here is
that because the 1050 only does have two gigs
of RAM it does limit kind of how high we can actually
crank the settings here. Watch, it's basically
limiting the GPU at 66. I would not want it to throttle at 66. I would be ok with this thing
living at 70, 75 all day, that's not enough to worry
me, I'd much rather have the quieter fans, I suppose. So Overwatch is actually
a pretty good game for this system. So we're at 1080p high,
and right now we're getting about 80 to 90 frames per second, definitely well in the
range of that 144Hz display. Hamster dude coming in, coming in hot, there you go, hahaha,
hamster dude's fun, man. Hamster dude's really fun. OP are almost certainly losing money on every single one of these they sell, at $600, and yes, you are taking a little bit of a risk by going with a fairly brand new
and unknown company. But considering just what you're getting for this kind of price,
it's hard to go wrong.