- Imagine this, you've just
spent $70,000 on a hyped new EV, but within weeks that dream
turns into a nightmare. Glitchy software, unfinished features, and an absolute fire sale,
knocking tens of thousands of dollars off the value of
the car that you just bought. Marques may have called it the
worst car he's ever reviewed, but today it's time to buckle up. I'm going to buy a Fisker Ocean. This I probably don't need to tell you, is an incredibly questionable
bordering on terrible idea. Now, I'm not borrowing a
press car for a few days just to make a video dunking on Fisker. I am putting my own money down
to try to purchase an Ocean to really see what the experience of buying a massively
discounted car from a company teetering on the brink
of bankruptcy is like. More importantly, I wanna see
not only how bad is the Ocean, but really what the
experience is going to be for the thousands of people
who are left holding the bag. So we are here in LA at The
Grove, which is the home of the only Fisker store that I can find. So we are recording here on
Thursday, so tomorrow is the day that the deal is official. The more I talk about this,
the more I really realize how dumb what I'm about
to do is, like. (sighs) How's it going? - [Salesperson] It's going, how are you? - [Austin] Austin, nice to meet you. - [Salesperson] Nice to meet you, Austin. - So I just walked out of
the Fisker store for a second and we actually had some
fans of the channel come by and be like, "Oh hey,
you're Austin Evans." And I think the the sales
guy going into overdrive now trying to show him some extra features, he literally jumped around. - That was very interesting. So they do not sell the
cars at the actual store, but the deal goes live tomorrow. And so what's gonna happen
is I'm gonna give him a call in the morning and give him my ideal order and he is gonna try to match
it as close as possible with what's going to be in inventory that importantly is
going to be discounted. The vibe is very cool, like,
it was very quiet in there besides when I got my cover blown. The car did break twice
while I was in there though. - I will also say that
he now knows you are a YouTuber. - That's true, and if he starts- - So he's gonna give you a
little bit of special treatment. - I can't go like, too incognito. I can't use a fake name
when buying a vehicle. That sounds like I'm
definitely gonna get arrested. It is what it is. I am gonna be able to get what I can get and I'm gonna get the
experience as close to normal as possible. The Extreme model, which used
to be 69 grand is now 37. So almost half off, and that's
the highest end version. So the base model is like, 25. I'll see it tomorrow when we decide on an even worse decision, but I think, I think I'm buying a
Fisker Ocean. (laughs) At this point in the video,
a pretty fair question is, "What exactly is Fisker anyway?" The company went public in 2020, and by 2021 their market cap
soared to nearly $8 billion. The future looked
electric, until it didn't. The last couple of months
the wheels have absolutely fallen off. In late 2023, they were opening
flashy flagship showrooms and celebrating finally
shipping the very first Oceans to fulfill their huge pre-order backlog. A massive $463 million loss in 2023 though marks the start of the end. And almost more importantly,
the dual gut punches of the end of low interest rates to
borrow more money easily and EV sales stalling out
across the industry big time has meant that Fisker has
run into a cash crunch. The stock price has plunged
from around $6 in October to about 2 cents today. Like you know, two pennies, not good. So I was supposed to jump on a call to place my order 15 minutes ago and I have been completely ghosted. I'm trying to do this. I'm trying to order, I'm trying
to go through the process. Now, the website did update this morning, so it now has a press
release basically explaining that the price cuts are for
2023 models and blah blah blah. And that's all fine,
but you can't go online and order those 2023 models. You can only order a new 2024, which because production has been halted, I don't think those are
ever going to be built. I'm hoping that maybe I get
a call back later in the day but not looking good. So just as I'm about to give up, I've checked the Fisker site and they have now listed
the inventory publicly. So you can see that there's
the Fisker launch edition, which is still the full price. Obviously that doesn't make any sense, but they have Extremes, which is the highest end configuration, which was down from 61,000 to $37,000. And then they have another
Extreme, another Extreme, actually a lot of, do
they only have Extremes? Wait, are you telling
me they've advertised the base model at $24,000 and change? In fact, I can give you the exact price. So reading the press
release, the sport trim, which is originally $39,000,
is supposed to be available for $24,999, which is
obviously a great deal. They have zero in stock. Not like, oh a base model with no options, like, zero in stock. So the story is is that they
were massively busy today and as you might imagine,
as you cut 30, 40, 50% off the price of the car you sell. But someone did call me back, you know, it's what, almost eight o'clock. So a few hours, six, seven hours after we were supposed to
chat, but I've got a car that has my name on it and
they said it'll take a few days for them to, it's currently
located in San Francisco so we've gotta like, ship it down. I don't actually know what
I'm paying for this car. The price in the system
still shows us the original, which I'll explain which
one I got in a second, but I don't actually
know how much I'm paying. I have a pretty good idea,
but I don't know exactly how much. Doubly confirmed, there
are no $24,000 base models. That's not a thing, they don't
have 'em, they're not coming. Certainly not for the 2023 year. That bumps the price up to
about $35,000 for the Ultra. The problem with the
Ultra is that the Extreme, which is the fully loaded
model with the solar roof and everything is like, 36, 37,000 bucks, which completely negates in my opinion, the need to get the mid range. They aren't charging extra
for the wheels and the paint. So I ended up getting the most
expensive wheels and paint. So I got, it was normally a $4,500 option to get the matte blue,
and another like, $2,000 for the 22 inch carbon fiber wheels. And apparently that's the same price as all the other Extremes
because they don't care. So theoretically I will be the owner of a brand new Fisker Ocean Extreme maxed out edition for $37,000? And this car yesterday cost
68, 69, something like that 'cause it has every single option. I mean, that feels like a good deal. I feel like I just got a car for half off. I hope that this ends well. So it is Monday morning
and I have some updates to share with Ken. They have no base models
whatsoever in inventory, period. - They probably never made
a lot of them to begin with and if they were any sold they
probably don't have any more. - [Austin] Correct. Here's the weird thing though, they didn't actually like,
take any money from my deposit. She just said, "Oh, okay cool,
I'm gonna like, put your name on this and like, someone
will hit you up next week and then like, we'll figure it out." It'll be here on Thursday, maybe? Wednesday, Thursday, something like that. And then I will at that
point have an Ocean. - Alright, cool. You bought a very, yeah, you bought a car. - So a little update for you. So it is currently Wednesday, so it has been six days
since I first showed up to the Fisker dealership. I am still waiting. So it is Sunday, April 7th,
which means that it has been a little over a week since I
placed my order for the Ocean and I don't have a lot of
updates on where my car is. So last I heard, I'll
be finding out tomorrow. I was supposed to find out
if I was getting the delivery by Thursday, but it's Sunday. Sure, whatever. I don't think it's really
a surprise to anyone who's made it this far in the video that Fisker seemed like
they're a little bit of an operational mess, but the more I've spent this week looking at this whole thing,
the more it feels like while this is a little
bit of an extreme case, they've been a bit of
a mess since day one. You know, you think about
these stories where supposedly, or at least allegedly they had lost money that people had spent, they
didn't know where it was, they couldn't account for it. Like, I still don't have
the price of the car, I still don't have any
kind record of any of this besides like, phone calls and emails. Like, I've never gotten like, a VIN, I've never gotten anything
sort of confirmed. So Marques did a second video where he talked about the Ocean with the 2.0 software update. Now software is a huge part of this story and the 2.0 update does
fix some of the problems. However, there are still a lot
of unfinished issues with it. What I'm doing right now,
I am not gonna lie to you, I've had some significant
second thoughts this week. Yesterday I was literally going to sleep and I was just like, "I
should cancel that order. What am I doing? This is ridiculous." You know, this would be the
point where I should say, "And that's why I didn't buy it" But I feel like I'm still committed. Like, I still wanna know
how bad is it really? Is there any silver lining here and is there any future support or software updates or whatever? Like, are a bunch of
people about to be driving $70,000 paperweights? (suspenseful music) I'm gonna be really honest with you. I want you to hopefully
know that I went into this with every intention
of buying this vehicle. If Fisker as a company had done any number of 20 different things
different along this process, I would either have one
or have a signed contract to purchase one at this point. And yet they failed at
basically every opportunity, which is strange for a
company teetering on the edge of bankruptcy and a company
who desperately needs cash that I was trying to give them. Throughout this process, I
am actively trying to get the car, I am emailing
them and following up and following up and I'm just being told, "Oh, I'll check when I get in tomorrow" Or, "Oh, our person who handles this is out over the weekend,
they'll hit you up on Monday." And then it came Tuesday and Wednesday and now it's just like, so I guess the real update here is that today I finally got confirmation that my Ocean was ready. And by confirmation,
I mean they emailed me all the documents to fill out
to begin the delivery process. But at this point it has been
13 days of trying to do this and the story has gotten
worse and worse every day. And to be clear, I can now
start the delivery process. It's not like the car is ready, I can now start the whole thing over again and wait for who knows how long. If I were to go forward
and sign the paperwork and begin the process, at
this point I would be getting a car which has depreciated
further from when I initially tried to buy it. So let's not forget that I tried to purchase an Ocean
Extreme, which had an MSRP of something like $70,000,
like 68, 69 grand or something. Now, I was told it's gonna
be, I dunno, 37 or $38,000, which ordinarily seems like a good deal, but because this fire sale has come in and there's so much doubt
about the future of Fisker, prices have dropped even further. Third party dealerships
are selling used Fiskers for 35, $36,000 with like,
a thousand miles or less. And I've talked with some
people not only who have tried to trade their Fiskers in and
were told either they were not going to offer anything on them at all, or maybe get a low ball
offer of 15 or $20,000 for a car they had just spent
$70,000 on a few months ago. It feels like not a, you
know, questionable decision, it feels like an outright
stupid decision for me to give this company
who is actively failing a large pile of my money. Let's not forget, I walked
into the dealership expecting to purchase a $24,000 vehicle. That is what they had claimed
was the new fire sale. But at the time I was told
that there were none in stock. And now that I know pretty much for sure that they never have actually
built any of the sport models, I cannot find a single version
of the Fisker Ocean Sport that was the 24,000 spec
that has ever been built. I don't think it exists. I think it was something
they were going to make, but I don't think it exists. And if it does, maybe three people have. Like, I still think that
there's real potential in the Ocean. I look at the design, I
think it looks terrific. I look at the range, I
look at the performance. I even think the tech's not bad. Is it unfinished? Absolutely, but there's
real potential in the Ocean. But at this point it
seems incredibly clear that while we've seen this fire sale and these cars have absolutely
lost a huge amount of value, this is not the bottom. You know, I feel for people
at Fisker, I'm not trying to single out anyone, no
individual person I've talked to at Fisker was terrible or
rude or anything like that. I wanna be really clear about that. Like, the people that I've talked to, the people I've tried to work
with were not being malicious or being incompetent, but I
just get the impression that as a company that has probably
lost a large amount of people to playoffs or whatever the
case is, who are operating with almost no idea
what's going on, you know, it just feels like it's
these constant promises of, "Oh, well, you'll find
out this day and that day" And then missing it, and you
would think that a company who's, you know, desperate for cash and has apparently 50, 60, 70
people canceling the orders a day would be really happy
when someone walks into their store and says, "Hey, yes, I
would like to purchase this. I will buy it right now." Above all, I feel for the
people who believed in Fisker, who saw the Ocean, put their
deposits down, spent 60, $70,000 on purchasing the vehicle only to receive an unfinished buggy mess and to have the value of their car, not only slashed in
half, man at this point, slashed to like, a quarter or a third and who knows where
the bottom actually is. That's the thing that I
think really sticks with me. You know, the early adopters
have been absolutely burned in this situation. And Fisker by pushing
this thing out the door and not having enough money
in the bank to sort of follow through has completely
destroyed their reputation. Like honestly, if there's
any takeaway from this video, you might be tempted by
the fire sale like I was. Maybe you're not, maybe you
have more sense than I do. I think this experience has
made it really clear to me that this is the end of the road. Sometimes if it seems to be
too good to be true, it is. Like, almost always. (melancholic music)