- There's three different
places in the house where we're gonna have
a TV or a projector, family room upstairs, the VR gaming space here and the theater room. And if we wanna have the
capability to play Xbox games in all of those locations, I'm gonna need three Xboxes. Multiply that problem by every other potential gaming system, you got your Nintendo switch, you got your gaming PC, and all of a sudden
you've got a huge problem with respect to cost, complexity and even just power consumption. Fortunately, as much
of a champagne problem as that might be, the solution is not that champagne and is one that might actually
be applicable to you as well. - It might be a $6,000 receiver, but the feature that we're gonna use is present on a lot of them. Even the one that I
bought for like 100 bucks has two zones. What we're gonna do is
use those receiver zones to split this Xbox into both displays. So you can play Xbox here, Xbox there, PC there, PC there,
Nintendo switch everywhere. And what's really mind blowing is that on this particular unit, we can actually take two different
inputs like the gaming PC and the Xbox, and then route
them to two separate outputs at the same time. - You could even mirror them. You can switch which one has which. It's pretty exciting. - Just like our sponsor. - Jackery. Their Explorer 1500 power station provides a huge 1500 watt hour capacity. It charges up to seven
devices simultaneously and it takes only four hours
to recharge from zero to hero. I mean, 80%. Get 10% off with code
linustechtips at the link below. (upbeat music playing) - Naturally, the first
thing we need to talk about in this video is Jake's beautiful diagram of how we expect all of this to work. - We did this together,
thank you very much. So if it doesn't work,
you're sharing blame. - Basically, we've got our receiver. We've got our Xbox
going into the receiver. Then we run the eARC from the screen one, which is the projector to the receiver and the regular HDMI
output to the VR room TV. - This should give us
4k 120 to the receiver and then can be split or
switched between these two zones. - Four mirrored. - And then you get eARC
back to the sound bar and the receiver has its own speaker so we don't have to worry about that. - Obviously in the theater room. Then the PC, okay. Even though this receiver
is like top of the line, it only has a single 4k 120 Hertz input. Now we have a solution
to that in the long term, which is just a secondary
HDMI input selector, but we don't have that today. So to test, we're gonna run the PC directly into a 4K 120 input on both the projector and the TV. - Then we use eARC to get the audio back. That's the idea. We don't know if it's gonna work. - Representing the VR room TV, we're gonna have this LGC1 48 inch. And then representing the
theater room projector, we're gonna have the
theater room projector. Epson, whatever it is, 12,000. - The models here are
actually kind of important. We need both displays to have eARC. I actually picked a monitor
as one of the displays first and then it was like, "Oh." "That's not gonna work." We also need our display
to have eARC on a port that we're not gonna use, because remember, it's
just for the sound bar. So we need like three HDMI 2.1 ports. - Just for these two inputs and then naturally Sonos
and their infinite wisdom doesn't have a single
additional HDMI input. - Oh, Jesus. Look at the TV. Oh my God. You're not even on the ground. Oh, my God. Oh my God. - Thank you. You might say you jumping into fix that makes you an arc reactor. Sound bar goes into HDMI input two. eARC, which allows the sound from... Yes, the sound from
the other 4K 120 inputs to be passed through to this sound bar. - Is this hurting your brain yet? - Yes. - It's hurting my brain.
- Okay. - You should use monitor two. Because we're not using the zones yet. - We're not. - If this plan works, we don't
even need to use the zones. It's confusing, right? Monitor one and monitor two.
Those are both zone one. - What?
- I've determined this. - Because it said it had three zones... - It does have three zones. The third zone is audio only. - I see. - Remember the PC doesn't
even plug into this thing. So this will allow us to
mirror the outputs basically on zone one. - Now we take our Xbox
series, whatever it's called and that goes into 8K in. That's our only HDMI 2.1 input
on this whole damn thing. - $5,000 Receiver. And you know, the best part? They released new low end receivers that have three inputs. - In the time since I bought this. - Yeah. Actually it was like a
week after you bought it. Where are you going? I need the power. - I'm plugging this into a computer. - You're a computer. - You're a computer. Now, we're not done yet
because this graphics card now, needs to go to both of
our displays separately from the receiver. - Okay, so we have one
on either right now, but we also want to be able
to have it on both, right? - Mm. Yeah. - So switch the TV To HDMI 3. - Which is the Xbox. - Beautiful.
- Oh Shut up. - Was it really that easy? Okay, what's cool about this, you could have people
gaming in the theater room and people are playing
board games out here and just peripherally paying
attention to who's winning or whatever. Or you could be playing
a local multiplayer game, like a split screen game or whatever. And you could have each of the teams sitting in a separate zone so that they can talk to each other, like kind of have private
comms between the two rooms. - Wait, hold on. - What? - What about audio though? Because we have audio there. - Oh. - That's theater room. - But not here. No, I don't hear anything. Oh, zone wait zone. - We're not using zones.
- Cause they're both zone one. - Yes. - Why don't we just use two zones then? - Because then it's not 4K 120. It would just be 4K 60. There's only one 4K 120 input but if we could select
that input on that output. - Yeah. That's what I thought
Crutchfield's site says. - Okay. Well let's try that then. - Okay.
- So we need to... - Switch to the other zone, like I said. I pulled the TV out of the
monitor two for zone one and I put it into 4K zone two, which is under HDMI out 8K. - Okay. So zone two says it's
on the game source right now. I can see all the sources here.
So if we can view zone two. - Oh. What? - Game. - Okay. So we want AUX two. - Where's AUX two? - It's not there. - What if we... Let's look at the main zone. What options do we have for main zone? Whoa. A lot more. - Wait. - It just doesn't even
let you select the source. - You can't use AUX two... - Cause it's 4K 120, bro. I have a workaround, big but, it wouldn't be 4K 120 on both. - Ah. Really? - But. - But? - You can do 1080 each 120. - Oh that's not bad. - So I'm thinking the
Xbox would be on that. - Okay. I put it back
in the other way then. - This is just a theory to it. I don't actually know if this will work. - The best part of all this is that even if we solve this problem, we have more problems to overcome today. - What I did notice is you
can see game DVD cable SAT on both of them. - Yeah. - So I figure if we plug
the Xbox into one of those, then we can just pick and choose. - Okay.
- Xbox into game. - Well then the PC doesn't
have to have separate things out to each thing. It could just use the 8K... - The whoty, whaty when? - Oh wait no no no. - The PC.
- Nothing, nothing. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because we can't do it,
it's in the second zone. - Well, let's do PC into the TV because then it can eARC
the sound back to there and then PC into the 8K input. so then we have sound
to from the receiver, otherwise we're not gonna
have sound from the receiver. So if we take the PC, plug it into the 8K input. So PC is AUX-2 now and the Xbox is GAME. So we'll do game for zone-2. - Okay. - And then main zone, let's do GAME as well. Let's see if we can get, okay, cool. It's on both, right? Do we have audio? - Well, the ARC's working. - And we have audio here? - Yeah. - Okay. - Well that's progress. - So we have audio on both now. - And video on both. And if
we go into the Xbox menu. - What? Your TV doesn't support 120 Hertz. What? Yes it does. - Jake told me not to
power cycle everything. So I power cycled everything anyway. There it is. - Okay, but will it stay? Is the question. - Smart call. Yeah. - Does the projector even
support this resolution though? - 1080 P 120.? I bet it does. - I mean, if it does 4K 120, why would it not do 1080 120? - I mean, I've seen dumber things. In fact, I don't even see it
having a signal right now. Maybe the projector doesn't like it, then. Epson y'all got some explaining to do. If it could do 4K 120, then you guys need to
enable 1080 P 120, okay? - Well hold on. This might just be like,
receiver being stupid. - Yvonne's gonna kill me if
this whole setup is just like, super complicated and stupid. - [Brandon] That's kind of
what it is looking like. - 4K 60 Xbox. We could do that. - If 4K 60 is fine, then we just need to figure out the PC. - Okay. - Yeah. So we got both. Let's check the PC now, man. - Now the idea is not necessarily that you would wanna mirror
the displays all the time. So before we check the PC, should we see how easy it is to say, "Oh actually I want the Xbox out here or actually, I want it
in the theater room." Now I go to zone one,
which is my projector and I can say, "Okay, I don't
wanna see that anymore." I could go back to zone two. I go back to the game input and... - Sweet. Okay, so that's not that bad. - That's actually not bad. Once we just got it built into
a couple of harmony remotes or whatever, those new kick started ones, we'll have to try it, I guess. - All right, what if we try to switch to the PC now though? - Yes. - Main zone...
- On the projector? - Yes, main zone, which is theater room. I wish you could rename those when then they weren't hard
coded on the remote, but, okay, cool. - Okay. - Now for audio... - Wait. Yeah, hold on. - Hold on a sec... Oh God. Oh, I stepped on the remote. Okay. There's our in-game audio. Now hit me with this. - Man, Crab Rave was such a masterpiece. - This is awesome. - Okay. Hold on. - But what if we want
the PC in both locations? Then all we gotta do is go like this, HDMI-1. - Which will be done by the harmony. - Now I need to know if
this also is crab rave. - No, because...
- What? But we paused it. - It's not because the
PC, oh God Windows... - No, no. There's an application. - There's an app for this
- Oh yeah. Voice meter. - Yes. - You can output to two different things. - Yes.
- Okay. We gotta set our windows
output to voice meter input. - Yes. - And then we have
hardware out that's Denon. - And second one should be the LGTV. - LGTV. - Oh (bleep) I turned
it all the way to max. - Yeah. Holy (bleep) it works. - But we are not done for today. Just because we can take
our different inputs and send them to whatever outputs we want. Doesn't mean that this is
how we want that to go down. So the projector needs to
move to the theater room, the TV needs to stay here and the Xbox needs to go somewhere in between. - Dude, if this falls, thing's done for, you know that right? - Not if it falls that way. - Oh, it's actually like... - See. These are cool. These are the solution to
having our source devices be they Xboxes or gaming PC, switches, whatever else the case may be, and then are displays in
completely different locations. So both of the cables I'm
holding are active HDMI cables from Phantom cables. These can come in a couple
of different varieties. Copper active cables. So these are directional. You gotta plug the specified
side into your source and the specified side into your display. And then they're gonna have
pretty thick copper conductors because they actually are
boosting the signal effectively to make it all the way to the other side. Then you've got your optical cables. These can either have
an auxiliary power input like this Vivify one or they cannot, but they actually convert
from copper zeros and ones to light zeros and ones and
can often go much farther, you can do a hundred foot. - You can do a hundred meters. - You can do a hundred meters, yeah. This 25 footer is gonna be pretty tight. - Oh, do not pull. - No, no, I'm not gonna pull. - I'm just gonna go here for safety. - Yeah if you just wanna
go there and hold it, then I can pull on it and make sure... - I'm gonna move the projector over. Wait, hold on. Is this speaker wire long enough? Here, can you plug? - Well, we have more anyway. It doesn't... - Plug that in for me. Will you? - Yeah. Sure. - [Brandon] Oh. - Sorry, Brandon. I'm gonna keep walking. - I'm a little tangled! - No, no, wait.
- Stop? Okay. - Yeah, stop. - Oh God, the PC. - Yeah? - Where are we gonna put that? - Here. Everything just goes here. This is the projector output. And then this one needs to go to the TV. Cool feature, and this has
become more and more common on receivers since the
Chromecast came out, we've got a USB port back here but it's not for firmware
updates or anything like that. It's just a little five
volt power source. Boop. So if we have something like
a powered optical HDMI cable, boop. We can power it like that. Okay. HDMI out, here. - Into the game. - Yeah.
- Input. - This is all it takes.
And now I got game. This boy goes here for
the 4K 120 input, there. - We just need another long one
to go from the PC to the TV. - I don't think this
is going to reach Jake. - Brother, we'll just move the TV. - I'm running outta cable boys. So this is input one? - Whatever you want. - Oh, I'm so thirsty. I
forgot my water bottle. If only I had thought
to shop on lttstore.com, I would have a water bottle and there are so many
different colors available. - Editor like Photoshop or... - Yeah, I was gonna say, thanks editor for all your hard work, putting all these different colors in. - Can you put this
water bottle in my hand? - What? No. - I bet you, you can't (bleep). - Why you gotta be like that. Put that outta here. He's wasting your time
which is wasting my money because he thinks it's funny. - I have no idea what's going on. - I need the remotes. - I'm just gonna take your word for it. - I'm turning on the projector. - It's just working.
- Oh wow. You see I'm a drift God bro. You ever played a projector on a black screen like that before? - Man, once we actually
have light control in here, this is gonna be amazing. - And not a black wall? - Great.
- Okay, So... - Let's check the TV. Did we ever actually turn the PC on? - That's a good question. We
should probably check that. - Computer didn't post. I think it might just be confused about not having a keyboard and
mouse and stuff though. - Ah. (bleep). - You (bleep) it up? - I did. - I (bleep) it.
(Jake laughing) - Okay, well let's check the
projector while you fixed that. - I just finished giving
you guys a tech tip about how these active
cables are directional. See I have the display
end plugged into the PC. What I want is the, source end. - While he fixes that
let's check the projector. Hey, it works. Look at that. I don't have a keyboard
and mouse to mess with it. - But it works.
- Hold on. I can help. - Left more, left a little bit more. Oh the tiniest bit left. Okay. Click. I don't know why it's not working. Oh, there's like an Edge prompt. Okay. Oh, how did you do that? - Escape. - Right, right, right, right,
right, right, right, right. Up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up. Click. It's working. (Jake mumbles) Am I doing it right? - All right. - Okay. Let's go check the TV. - This is fantastic. As expected, we're able to use the
receiver's multiple inputs and outputs. And this is actually feature
you might be able to find on a receiver for a couple of
hundred bucks on Craigslist. Even if it doesn't support
the latest standards. - Or one you already have. - And we're able to take
whichever input we want and send it to whichever
destination we want. The only hiccup we ran into is that we can only have one of
our sources be 4K 120 Hertz until better receivers come out and... - And you buy another one for $6,000. - Jake gets a great deal on
a formerly $6,000 receiver. I'm onto you. But we still have one
more problem to solve. While moving HDMI over long
distances is no problem. We could have that Xbox in the basement and a TV up on the fricking second story. - We could have a TV on the space station if we had a long enough fiber. - He's not wrong. What we can't move around easily is the wireless Xbox controller signal. And this is kind of ironic because Microsoft actually
makes a USB dongle that allows you to connect
four Xbox controllers to it that you could extend
with an optical USB cable to wherever you want. But the issue is that dongle
is only PC compatible. So the last thing we need to test is can we actually reach the Xbox in the mechanical room from
both the VR gaming space and from the theater room? - You feel that? - What do I feel? Oh. I think it might actually be working. - Your TV has to restart itself? Oh my... To update the term... (Jake hits himself in the head) Oh wow. Look at that. - Do you wanna throw it in
a split screen gaming mode and I'll head over to the other room? This game doesn't have a split screen. - Go to the other one then. Then the Forza seven whatever had it. Now this is approximately
where it would end up. And this is pretty far from the Xbox through at least two walls. A BMW M1? Okay, sure, Screw it. - Jake, it doesn't matter
what car we're driving. We're just trying to find
out if the controllers are gonna work properly. - It matters to me. - He's taking on the inside. - Ah, you pushed me off the track you ass. Oh, this thing drives like (bleep). - See you later. - Oh, you suck. - Any perceptible lag? - Well, I mean it's an
Xbox, so yeah, but... - Well, right. But I
mean, other than that. - Yeah, it seems fine. - It seems fine to me too. - Compared to playing on a
racing wheel on a computer, this is like, this is dog (bleep). - Well, okay. That's not the point. The point is it works. - The point is it works. Yes. - For bonus points, do you wanna try this
upstairs in the family room? - Do we not have a long enough cable? - I think we can go
straight to the family room. I think it's right there. - What time is it?
- We'll just go right there. - Oh, it's 5:30, which is time to tell
you about our sponsor. (Jake laughs) - FreshBooks. When building a business
you're passionate about, it's easy to feel like there
aren't enough hours in the day. And if you're doing all the
invoicing and accounting on your own, you're probably
spending time on work you don't love. Fresh books is built for
business owners like you. It's the all in one accounting software that saves entrepreneurs and freelancers up to 11 hours a week. That's 11 hours you can
spend nailing a client pitch, serving your customers
or honing your craft. From building, sending and
following up on invoices to tracking and managing expenses, to processing online payments. FreshBooks, automates and simplifies all the tough and annoying parts of running your own business. It's also super easy to get up and running and the award-winning
FreshBooks support team is always available to answer questions. Try FreshBooks for free for 30 days, no credit card required. Go to freshbooks.com/linus
and get more time back to build the business you love. - If you guys enjoyed this
video, go check out... - The projector one. - That was fun.
- Yeah. - That projector is... - That was a blast.
- It's a black wall. - It's so cool.