- They said two years
of support was enough. They said, "If you want a new CPU, you'll have to buy a new motherboard." ASRock said, "No." That's right, it started
out as a hacky work around, but on January 12th, 2022, ASRock rolled out official support for installing a brand new AMD processor in a motherboard from four years ago. Which raises some burning questions, like if AMD and ASRock can
do it, why can't Intel? And is this one of those situations where just because you can do something doesn't mean you should? It's a situation where I'm gonna
tell you about our sponsor, that's for sure. Thanks to Kemp for
sponsoring today's video. Kemp develops load balancers that provide maximum reliability for applications in both
virtual and cloud deployments, object storage optimization, web application, firewalls, and more. Get your free load balancer
at freeloadbalancer.com or at the link in the description. (bright music) AMD and their partners
have done an amazing job over the last five years or so, supporting both backward
and forward compatibility between their multiple generations of CPUs and chip sets on the AM4 socket. Though, it hasn't been without hiccups. At its launch in 2016, AMD promised compatibility
for the socket through 2020, only to pull the rug out from under us when they announced that their
Zen 3 Ryzen 5000 Series chips would still use them AM4, but only with the latest
X570 and B550 chip sets. Now, they quickly backpedaled and added official
support for B450 and X470, but the messaging was, "That's all folks. We're doing you a favor here. Don't expect it to get any better." And yet here we are all the way in 2022, discovering that their original
promise ended up being true. At least to a point. Meanwhile, Intel's
strategy for over 10 years has been to release a new socket almost every other
generation like clockwork, physically breaking compatibility so there's been no way to
challenge their narrative that we needed a new
motherboard every time around. But then something happened. A few years ago, socket H4,
more commonly known as LGA 1151, lasted for four whole
generations of chips. But Intel still stuck to their story that the early boards couldn't
run with the later chips and vice versa. Now, to be fair, while the socket and the pin
layout itself hadn't changed, allocation and usage did change. For Coffee Lake, which was the third generation
of chips on this socket, some of the previously reserved pins were reassigned to add
power and ground lines to meet the requirements on
beefier six and eight-core CPUs. That's pretty understandable, but Intel also relocated
the processor detection pin, breaking compatibility. They called this socket LG 1151 revision 2 in order to help differentiate. But stuff like that is a big part of why so many people find
building computers complicated. It can be scary spending hundreds or even thousands of dollars on parts, only to find out that
yes, they fit together, but they don't actually work together. Unlike our processor hoodie that goes great with just
about anything, lttstore.com. Practices like these are
a big part of why we, and the majority of the PC industry, don't advise you to attempt
to future-proof your build, because no matter what you do, it's only gonna get you so far, whether it's the next generation of RAM, PCI Express, or even IO. How many of you wish you had
a USB-C port, for example? There is simply no way to guess which investments into
better parts will bear fruit and which ones will end up having been just a waste of money. Unless you believed AMD,
and ASRock for that matter, back in 2016 and splurged
on this motherboard, the ASRock X370 Pro 4. The idea at the time was that
if you were a savvy shopper, you could save a few bucks by going with an affordable
Bristol Ridge Athlon X4 chip, and then hold off and upgrade later when either you had some more cash or you took advantage of
one of the best practices, by trailing the bleeding
edge by a generation or so. So you might've waited
until Ryzen 2000 launched and then snagged a snappier Ryzen 1500X from someone who was upgrading then. Man, that is savvy. Why don't we do some role-play? I'm you. Boy, the years
haven't treated you well. But they've been a lot less kind to your poor four-core eight-thread CPU with its piddly 16 megabytes
of level three cache. Now here's the thing. Remember, I'm you. I don't wanna download some hacky BIOS from a Russian forum, so I'm going to the CPU support section on my motherboard's download page. And would you look at that? It's there. So for just $270 for a 5600X, that is what my dumb
friends will end up paying for their new Intel motherboard alone. I'm gonna be on the latest generation. Freakin' get wrecked. But there are some catches. Unlike my friends, I will not be getting
cutting edge features like PCI Express gen five, or
even gen four for that matter. I'm gonna have to update
the BIOS of my motherboard to piece 7.10, which removes compatibility
for older chips, which can carry some risk. And unless I want to invest
more money into my machine, say by upgrading my original
DDR4 to something faster, I might not be getting the
most out of my new chip. So am I actually getting a good deal? Let's test it out. Now, short of a power outage occurring in the middle of BIOS flashing, you should be okay if you follow along. We had to get this specific
board, the X370 Pro 4, but on the ASRock forum, we already found evidence
that support is rolling out to X370 boards more broadly, and we've heard rumors that other manufacturers may follow suit. So all we need is our test bench here, some peripherals, a USB drive, and we're gonna have
links for all this stuff in the description down below. We'll also need an internet connection. So you're gonna wanna unzip your new BIOS and drop it onto an otherwise
empty FAT32 USB flash drive. FAT32 is still the default
when you format it in Windows for lower capacity drives,
but if you wanna double check, you can just look in the properties once your drive is plugged in. Once you're ready, restart the system and
mash or hold F2 or Delete to enter the UEFI BIOS. Now, we're gonna ignore
the majority of this and just go to the Tool tab. Hey, I get it. That's not funny. And select Instant Flash
and steel yourself, because once we take this next step, there is no turning back. The Bridge BIOS that we're going to use removes support for Bristol Ridge CPUs and cannot be unflashed, at least according to ASRock's website. So we're gonna do this
BIOs, then another one, and we should be ready for Ryzen 5000. Oh, and I hope you're ready, because we've got a video
upcoming about GPU shunt modding that you're gonna wanna be
subscribed so you do not miss. This is gonna take a minute, so. And reboot. What's that? - Just hold it.
- No, I like mashing it. I'm a masher. I wanna make sure that's
the correct version. We actually should've done that before. "Do you wanna update?" Yes, I do. Hopefully we have all the... Secure flash check fail. Whoa, and it's off. I mean, I did say this process wasn't without risk, didn't I? I looked it up and
apparently this can come up when you're using a thumb
drive with too much capacity, which is exactly why I
keep this piece of crap in my little bag of tricks. It's a one gig pen drive,
completely generic USB 2. And we're gonna throw
the BIOS file on there. Fatty 32 is what I call this boy. It's my fatty 32. Oh, there it is. Yes, it's got it. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Yeah! All right. Fatty 32 to the rescue. All right, well, we don't
actually wanna boot right now, 'cause we are gonna put a 5600X in... Ow! We are gonna put a 5600X in this mamajama. Okay, come on. Now we're gonna try. It's gonna do its best to
defend its socket from us. Okay. Argh! - [Andy] Pre-applied thermal paste. - Yeah, yeah. Please subset that I am
reusing the thermal paste on the bottom of the heat sink. If we were doing any kind of
comparative thermal analysis, obviously I would reapply
fresh paste, but we're not. We're just getting it
running and this is fine. Everything's fine. Everything is good. Here, catch. No, I'm not gonna, I'm not
gonna, I'm not gonna throw it. Geez, you guys give me
no credit around here. Okay, new CPU installed. Blah, blah, blah, structure
change, blah, blah. Yes, reset. And this is where we would
lose all of our data. Why is this on here? If we had been using... Was that on my shoulder the whole time? - [Andy] Yeah. - Oh, for crying out loud. I wanted to change to a shirt you can actually buy on
lttstore.com, so I had the thing. Ah, look at that. Look at that. It sure didn't go to 3200. It's at 2133. All right, so we're gonna
have to try and re-enable our DOCP memory profile here. I don't know what to expect
in terms of memory speeds. Obviously we're getting a
much newer memory controller, but I also know that
motherboard manufacturers have learned a heck of a lot about optimal memory
trace layouts for Ryzen in the last four years. So maybe this will just (clicks) go and maybe it'll go. I don't know. And remember, you can't
have success without succ. Sorry, I've been in a bit of a mood today. I swear I'm fine. And there we go. Right to
3200, no complaints whatsoever. We haven't done any stability
testing or anything, but that's definitely a good sign. Pew pew pew, pew pew pew. Melee, melee. I don't know how to melee in this game. Oh yeah, you gotta switch to knife, okay. I'm gonna get them. I'm gonna get them. Pew pew, pew pew pew, pew pew pew pew pew. Pew pew pew pew. Oh no, I got beat by a bot! But that's okay because the 5600X in our ancient X370 motherboard did not get beat by an X570 board. That's right. Where'd it go? Where's my X570 board? Ah,
there it is over there. Okay, technically, technically, we came out behind our X570 board by about 15 FPS in CS:GO, but we're talking the difference between 545 frames per second and 560, so it's not exactly a big deal. Crazily enough, we actually
came out ahead in "F1 2020." So not only is our ancient
board not causing any problems with a pretty powerful graphics
card, an RTX 2080 Super, our PCI Express gen three bottleneck isn't causing any
bottlenecks for us at all. Again, I can't speak to the future, but come on guys, do you
want more future out of this? It's doing pretty well. It all just goes to show you that sometimes trusting
a company's promise of years of support and spending a little bit
more actually can pay off. At least one time it's happened. We did still obviously
need to buy a new CPU, but we can keep the rest of
our system exactly as it is and get a massive uplift in performance with significantly higher
boosting capabilities, twice the level three cache to our 1500X, not to mention two more cores. Now over on the Intel side of things, LGA 1200 was just put out to pasture after just two processor generations and LGA 1700 has just launched. And I don't think we've
heard any kind of commitment to long-term support for that socket, but the same is actually true
on the AMD side of things. Officially, they haven't committed to any kind of long-term date for their upcoming PCI Express
gen five and DDR5 platform. But based on the success
that AMD has had with AM4, I think consumers have signaled that longevity is something
that they want to see more of and I think the entire
industry could do better. You know what couldn't be better?
This segue to our sponsor. Thanks to Ting Mobile for
sponsoring today's video. Ting Mobile has rates that make it easier to see how much you can save by switching. They offer unlimited
talk and text for $10, data plans starting at just $15, and their Set 12 plan with
12 gigs of data for $35. They've even got unlimited
data for $45 a month. And if you liked their previous
pay for what you use plans, they're still there. They're called Ting Mobile's Flex plans and they charge just $5 per gig. Data can even be shared
if you have a family plan, so you can connect more
devices to save more. You get the same nationwide
coverage in the US and award-winning support. In fact, Consumer Reports
just named Ting Mobile their number one carrier in America. Pretty much any phone
will work with Ting Mobile and they have the
perfect plan for anybody. So check them out at linus.ting.com
and get $25 in credit. If you guys enjoyed this video, make sure to check out our
AMD versus Intel title fight, where we pitted equivalent
laptop CPUs against each other. Man, I love how they're
going at it. Lightning.