- Hey guys! This is Austin, and today on
The Cheapest Stuff on Amazon, I bought the four cheapest laptops that are currently available on Amazon that are brand new with
Prime shipping, of course. First of all, we have the Dell Inspiron 11 which is not only the cheapest laptop here at $170, but we've actually
done an entire video on this earlier this year. Put simply, it actually gets
a lot of basic stuff right. Unlike a lot of budget laptops, this is powered by an AMD processor and I'll get into that a
little bit more in a second. But generally speaking,
it is a little bit cheap, but for the most part,
you actually get something that is surprisingly usable. Next, we have the Samsung
Chromebook 3 at $180. Now, this is similar in a lot of ways, but the key difference, of course, is that it is running Chrome OS. It has the same tiny 11.6 inch display. What's different about this is, of course, the idea that instead of
having to run Windows, we have a much more
lightweight operating system which makes a big difference
to the general performance. Then, there's the EVOO EV-C,
which at less than $200, is a little bit of a weird choice. It does come with a
larger 12.5 inch display and there are some cool features
like a fingerprint sensor. But there are also some
major, major drawbacks. Three Gigs of RAM is definitely unusual, but with a quad-core processor, it seems pretty solid. I mean, they're pretty
obvious about it on the box. Not only does it say on the sticker, but also several times here
that it is a quad-core chip. Except, when you open up Task Manager and see that it is actually
a dual-core Celeron. Which, yeah. That's great. This isn't a total deal-breaker, as several of the other laptops
here are also dual-core, but I think it's more than
just a little bit sketchy. They advertise it as a quad-core processor and give you 50% of what you're paying. You know what does have
a quad-core processor? The Asus VivoBook, which
has a very obvious amount of stickers and badges
saying that it does, in fact, have four cores. Exactly as you would expect. The issue here is that this
is a much older AMD processor. While it does have decent performance, as you guys will see soon,
it's not all that impressive. And even worse, Do you hear that? That's a fan, my friends. Unlike the other laptops,
this is not fanless and it's significantly
thicker because of that. As the only laptop
here with a 14 inch screen. That is an advantage for some people, and there are a ton of ports. So if you take a look on the side, we have not only USB-C, but
also a couple of USB-A's. We have Ethernet, SD, even HDMI. Flip the laptop over and we have a very convenient little
door which gives us access to the two and a half inch drive bay. That is unique among these laptops. All of them, with the
exception of the Chromebook, have only 32 gigs of storage,
which as you might imagine, is difficult to run Windows on. So, for the most part, you're gonna need to install something like
a Micro SD for extra space. But with this guy, you
can very easily upgrade it with a hard drive or an SSD. When you click on a video talking about the cheapest laptops on Amazon, you probably don't expect
a lot of performance. And you would be right. With the Chromebook and EVOO, you get a dual-core Intel Celeron
processor with four gigs of RAM on the Samsung
and three on the EVOO. Whereas with the Dell
Inspiron, we actually have an AMD dual-core processor. If we move over to the Asus, it of course does have that
awesome quad-core power. But as you will see, it's not all that it's cracked up to be. Run everything through Geekbench, and the Dell does take
the win slightly over the Celeron processors. What's especially disappointing is the performance of that Asus. Because it's such an older processor, even though it's got the fan, even though it's got the thicker build, it is still significantly slower. And that's not just in benchmarks. Use the Asus, and it does feel
a lot slower for normal use. Speaking of the real world, I do think the Chromebook does feel fastest. Now fastest is a little
bit of a relative term. It's certainly not as quick as any kind of more expensive laptop. But because Chrome OS is
so much lighter weight than Windows, it feels reasonably snappy. I will give it to the Dell for being the fastest of the Windows systems. Having that four gigs of RAM
as well as a decent CPU, actually kind of okay graphics, does make a big difference. But again, all four of these systems, they're a little on the slow side. And by a little, I mean
a lot on the slow side. At this price, all of these laptops are absolutely made out of plastic, but there are fairly big
differences in build quality. Not all plastic is the same? I always forget it, what's the phrase? Not all plastic is built the same? Created equal! Created equal! It's not all created equal, guys. The EVOO is definitely at
the bottom of the pack here. I mean, just look at how
much I can flex the chassis. Oh, you hear that? (laptop crinkling) Ew, yeah. I mean, it'll probably
last you a little while, but durability doesn't really strike me as the strong suit of (laptop crinkling) No. In comparison, the Dell
is an absolute tank. And, I mean, it's still
not super super sturdy, but there's no real flex on the bottom. The actual keyboard
itself is pretty sturdy. There's a little bit on the screen, but generally speaking,
this does feel like it could take a little bit more abuse. When it comes to screens,
all four of these laptops have the same standard
1366x768 resolution. Now there is a slight advantage to the Asus as far as having
a bigger 14 inch screen, but let's be real, these
are all kind of okay. They're decent, but none of
them look remotely as good as something that costs even
another hundred dollars. Speakers on the other hand,
are a little different. So the Dell is the only one
with front firing speakers, but the only issue here is
that they are incredibly small. They sound okay, but they
just don't get all that loud. The Chrombeook and VivoBook sound fine, but what doesn't is our
good friend the EVOO. (video playing on computer) Yeah, so I mean, they're
tinny, they're quiet. Just not a really good experience, which I guess you shouldn't
expect that much for $200. But all of the other
laptops sound a lot better. When it comes to keyboards, the Chromebook is my clear favorite. Not only does it have a nice clean layout and full-sized keys, but it also does have a small but pretty solid touchpad. The Asus is right up there
thanks to its full-sized layout, whereas the Dell feels
pretty decent to type on. But the main issue here is that it is a physically smaller keyboard. Look, the EVOO I will be blunt with. This might be the worst
laptop keyboard I've used in quite a while. Not only does it have
a weirdly small layout, but the keys themselves
feel like brittle, maybe? It is just not a nice place to type. I will give the EVOO this: it is unique in this group in that it does have a fingerprint sensor
built into the touchpad. And really, there's not a
lot bad to say about it. It works just as well as the sensors in much more expensive laptops. Wi-Fi is a bit of a sore
point for the Windows laptops. They're all limited to
2.4 Gigahertz wireless, which really does slow
things down quite a bit. Except when it comes to the Chromebook, which has dual-band AC Wi-Fi. Now sure, these are slower systems, but even if you ignore
the speed difference which is fairly significant, you get a much more reliable connection and that's something that's
important for any laptop. So, should you by any of the
cheapest laptops on Amazon? Well, maybe? The Chromebook is probably
the best bet here. Not only is it a well-built package, but important, pretty much
anything you'd wanna do on a sub $200 laptop, you
probably can do on Chrome OS. On the Windows side, I
like the Dell Inspiron. Not only is it the cheapest laptop here, but as far as a budget system goes, this checks almost all the
boxes for what I'm looking for. So that, my friends, is roundup of all the cheapest laptops on Amazon. As always, links to all of these guys will be in the description. If you want to feel free to,
you know, check them out. Although maybe avoid the EVOO.