- Hey guys, this is Austin. AMD is absolutely everywhere right now. Inside the new PlayStation 5
and next-gen Xbox, absolutely. They've even got a GPU
inside the new Mac Pro and Google Stadia streaming service. The building blocks here come down to two major architectures, AMD's Zen 2 CPU as well
as their RDNA graphics. So yesterday I got a sneak
peek at what AMD has in store and a really deep dive on the tech here, so based on that, I think we can make some very educated guesses
on what to expect inside the PlayStation 5 and
next-generation Xbox. First of all, let's talk CPUs. So both Sony and Microsoft
have gone on record that they are using the Zen 2 cores in their latest consoles, and that is a huge jump
over the last generation which used the really
underpowered Jaguar CPU cores. So some rough maths gives a, maths? Some rough math gives us
about a four times jump in the single-threaded performance and up to a 10 times jump in performance if both Sony and Microsoft
do opt to go with an eight-core design like they did with the last generation, AKA these new CPUs are going
to be a huge, huge uplift. This should be a true generational leap. So the current generation of consoles, specifically with the
One X and the PS4 Pro, have actually had pretty solid graphics, but they have been severely handicapped by their very weak processors. While traditionally AMD
hasn't been all that strong on the power side of things, this time around with their
seven-nanometer process as well as the new Zen 2 architecture, it actually looks really promising. Consoles, of course, are by nature limited when it comes to both
power as well as thermals. So if you're building
yourself a gaming PC, feel free to load up with a ton of fans, a huge power supply,
it's really not an issue, but a console has to fit a
very small size constraint, and usually these things are
not in great environments with lots of airflow, right? I mean, how many consoles are, like, underneath a stack of
books or underneath your TV with almost no airflow? So my best guess for the
next generation of consoles is for a CPU to be roughly
equivalent to the Ryzen 7 3700X, and this is an eight-core Zen 2 design which in its normal clock
is around 3.6 gigahertz. And mind you, that's on the
desktop side at 65 watts, so we will likely see a slight underclock to meet the console spec, but even so, something in that neighborhood, I think, is very, very doable for the
PS5 as well as the next Xbox. The next interesting aspect
is on the graphics side. So both the Xbox as well
as the PlayStation 5 are taking advantage of
AMD's Navi GPU architecture. Now this actually is going
to ship first in desktop PCs a little bit later this year, but it very much seems
like it was designed with consoles in mind as the
chip itself is fairly small, perfect for integration
in an SoC like console. So the pure performance should
be a pretty decent step up over the current generation. However, this is a much more
difficult comparison to make. So on the graphics side of things, both Sony and Microsoft are
absolutely going to customize their GPUs so it's not going
to be exactly off the shelf. However, based on a slightly
conservative estimate, I'm going to say the new
generation of consoles should be in the neighborhood
of a Radeon RX 5700 as far as graphics go. The graphics side is very much
where there's the most room for Sony and Microsoft to play around and make sure they're actually
making different consoles. So even though they all have the same building blocks to play with, they can do it in very different ways. For example, Sony might focus
on making on a bigger GPU which is focused on high resolutions, and Microsoft might focus
more on something like higher frame rates or making sure that the ray tracing is of a higher quality. There really are a lot of variables here. However, the important
thing to note is that when we do see these
differences in the consoles, it is very likely going to
come down to things such as the amount of memory as well as the size and the overall layout of these GPUs. Now, like I said, I think I'm being a little bit conservative assuming that this is going to be
similar to a Radeon 5700, which for the record is about
on par with an RTX 2060, but we do know for sure that
there are some major upgrades that go along with this Navi GPU. First of all are the power
savings we're getting with the seven-nanometer process, which may or may not
actually be even better by the time that these
consoles ship next year. We should also be looking at GDDR6 memory. Now this is a decent step
up over the last generation, and I estimate that we'll
see somewhere between 12 and 16 gigs of this
stuff on these new consoles. Now that's important as, again,
like that last generation, this should be an APU layout, which means that that
memory is shared with both the CPU as well as the GPU. There's also support
for PCIe 4.0 onboard. Now this gives both Sony and Microsoft a ton of extra bandwidth to play with, so some of that will come down to making the graphics a little bit faster, but for the most part, this
is going to come in handy with the standard SSDs on
both of the new consoles. Not only will this cut load
times significantly down, but it also enables bigger worlds, and Microsoft has even hinted
toward a RAM disk function. So it is confirmed that
both of the new consoles will support not only 8K
but 4K at a full 120 Hertz. If we take a closer
look at the Radeon 5700, that actually completely matches up. So it supports 8K and HDR at
a full 60 frames per second, or you can go 4K HDR at that 120 Hertz. Now this is the first time
that we've seen support for such high frame rates in a console, and that could have absolutely
huge implications for gaming, assuming that developers
actually take advantage of that instead of aiming for,
like, 30 frames per second like a lot of this generation. Now that all being said, there is the added issue that
there's as far as I'm aware of aren't any 4K 120 Hertz TVs on the market, but if this means that we
get another shiny badge to look for when you're buying
your TV, then I am on board. The fluidity of 120 frames per
second paired with FreeSync should make a huge difference
to gaming going forward. Put all of this together, and graphics on the next
generation of consoles should be roughly about twice as powerful as on the Xbox One X as well as PS4 Pro, and in the neighborhood
of six times better than the base PS4 as well
as the base Xbox One. Of course, all of these
estimates should be taken with a huge grain of salt as these
consoles are over a year away, but based on the information
that AMD has shared about the underlying architecture, I think it's very safe to say that this is going to be the
first console generation that's actually matching a
high-end PC across the board, not just in graphics, but
in CPU and SSD, you name it. Definitely be sure to check out my videos on the new Xbox as well as PlayStation 5 if you haven't seen them, and absolutely subscribe to the channel for the latest as we learn more and more about this brand-new
generation of console wars. Oh, boy.