Taiwan’s electronics industry features one 
of the few Taiwanese companies out there   that has managed to cross the ravine from being a 
nameless manufacturer into an actual name brand. Asus, or AsusTek as it is sometimes also called,   started off making motherboards. It leveraged 
that skill into making computers for sale under   other brands. But the company wanted to do more 
than just labor in the shadows for other people. The company managed to navigate a tricky 
web of relationships to do so. And today,   it markets and sells under its own 
name computers, laptops, and even   high-performance gaming phones that regularly 
garner praise from YouTube tech reviewers.   In this video we will trace their 
journey, review their strategy and more. Asus was founded in 1989 by four owner-operators 
looking to start a small company. The four   founders had worked together at another 
one of Taiwan's big electronics brands:   Acer. They named their company 
after the mythical creature Pegasus. A year later, Asus was incorporated with 
a million dollars in startup capital.   Originally, the company was positioned 
as a design firm, offering consulting   services without any manufacturing included. 
Their first speciality was in motherboards. For those who might not be familiar with such 
things, a motherboard is a printed circuit board   that holds and communicates between the various 
parts of your computer. You would connect your   mouse, keyboard, memory, and CPU and the "Mobo" 
as they call it would help them work together. In 1990, Intel released the 
Intel 486 motherboard as an   engineering sample - meaning that it was 
compatible with their i486 microprocessor.   Such samples helped kickstart the ecosystem 
around the new chip. The four members of Asus   leveraged their experience with the 
previous generation 386 motherboards   as well as publicly available engineering 
details to build a 486 motherboard of their own. Intel was impressed by Asus' motherboard, which 
performed better than their own engineering sample   in several aspects. Thus, Asus received their 
first manufacturing job and in November 1990,   they released the EISA 486 motherboard. Working directly with Intel allowed Asus 
to receive engineering specs and details   3-6 months early. This seemingly short head 
start allowed them to become a leader in the   motherboard industry. In its first full year of 
operation, Asus made $30 million USD in revenue. In these early years, Asus focused on making the 
best motherboards that they possibly could. But   motherboards were a niche industry. When Intel CEO 
Andy Grove visited Taiwan in 1996, he remarked: > I never thought that motherboards could 
become an important industry on their own They was a big fish in a small pond. All the 
profits flowed to the makers of processors   (Intel) and the operating system (Microsoft). 
Motherboards themselves remained a commodity. But as the late 90s were coming about, other 
motherboard makers were catching up to Asus.   The company still made very good, high-end 
motherboards. But they had given up the low-end   market and competitors were climbing the ladder. 
In other words, Asus was finding itself disrupted. This is a dilemma that every country and 
industry faces. When you find yourself   challenged by low-cost competitors in your 
market, what do you do next? How do you survive? Asus decided that they had to diversify 
their product and business lines.   On the product side, they expanded into other 
components like modems and graphics cards.   They would sell these under their own brands. In 1989, the company also began manufacturing 
notebooks and other electronics for other brands.   This business model is referred to as 
being an "original design manufacturer".   A company that designs and manufactures 
a product to be sold under another brand. Throughout the 2000s, Asus manufactured notebooks,   server computers, and other 
stuff for companies like HP,   Dell, Apple and Sony. But they also tried to sell 
the same products under their own brand names. This was a clear conflict of interest. 
Customers on the original design   manufacturer side could not be sure whether 
or not their information would be used to   compete with them in the end user market. Apple 
famously had the same concerns with Samsung. In 2007, Apple significantly dialed down its 
MacBook manufacturing business with Asus and   the company had to respond. That same year, they 
announced that they would hive off their original   design manufacturing business into a 100% owned 
subsidiary called Pegatron. Management hoped this   would reassure their customers that improper 
information cannot be shared across lines. But the conflicts of interest persisted. And 
even got worse when Asus released its hit Eee   laptop product. The first so-called netbook, the 
low-end PC sold 5 million units at the start and   presented a real threat to Pegatron's customers. 
They were eating in other companies' market share. Now the conflict of interest 
really was a problem. Why on   earth would anyone want to work with 
Pegatron and fund their own competitor? To fix things once and for all, Asus announced 
in January 2008 that it would split the three   companies entirely. Asus would go on to develop 
the Asus electronics and notebooks brand.   Pegatron would go independent with component 
manufacturing and original design manufacturing.   The third, Unihan was to produce 
non-PC products like cases and molding,   but would eventually get 
merged back into Pegatron. The split took nearly two years 
and was completed in December 2009.   Asus sold the last of its shares 
in Pegatron six months later. The split allowed the two companies 
to succeed on their own. It gave   Pegatron the ability to win back 
business it had previously lost,   including Apple's. Asus could now focus on 
developing its line of laptops and PC components. Today, Pegatron is Taiwan's second 
largest company judging by revenue,   with $47 billion. Only Foxconn and its associated 
companies are larger, with $172 billion.   Asus remains a major customer, buying 
millions of notebooks from its sibling,   but it has diversified its supply chain to 
include other assemblers like Foxconn and Quanta. The split was also quite successful financially.   In the five years since the spin-off, Asus' 
stock price rose 417% from $64.40 to $333.   Pegatron's stock did not do quite 
so well, but still surged 50%. In 2020, Asus made about $13 billion revenue 
and a little less than a billion in net profit.   Despite being one of the few Taiwanese brands 
that consumers can name off the top of their head,   the company is ranked behind 
Taiwan's financial, semiconductor,   industrial and electronics assembly giants. The company sells two broad categories of products 
- PCs and PC components - to consumers around the   world. They have major manufacturing sites in 
Taiwan, China, Mexico, and the Czech Republic. On the components side, the company still has 
dominant market share in motherboards. But they   also offer other components like routers, 
monitors, graphics cards and sound cards.   The company's history gives it an advantage there. On the Personal Computer side, the 
company sells a wide range of products.   In 2020, they were the 5th largest vendor when 
judged by computers shipped, right behind Apple   and ahead of Acer. But its speciality is 
in laptops, offering over 200 varieties.   It sells laptops under its VivoBook, ZenBook, and 
ExpertBook - targeting a wide range of customers. Their high-end gaming brand Republic 
of Gamers (ROG) is one of the more   well known in the industry. ASUS 
markets their ROG-branded laptops   as the preferred PC brand for American 
gamers, whatever that might mean.   There are ROG-branded peripherals, 
computers, routers, and even gaming phones. This jumbled, super-broad product line might seem 
to be a mistake. After all, didn't Steve Jobs   want all of Apple's products to fit on a single 
table? But it seems to work for ASUS. Here's why. The Windows laptop vendor world is challenging 
and low margin. When all your competitors are   running the same operating system as you, it 
is hard to differentiate yourself. You have to   make something that stands out from the crowd, 
or else Dell and Lenovo will grind you to dust. So the company's approach has been to deliver 
low cost, high value products to its consumers.   It leverages its wide distribution and close 
supply chain partnerships to grind out profit at   scale. This means leveraging all the benefits 
of having an outsourced assembly company:   Fast turnaround on product development,   fast ramp up of production, and equally 
fast dialing down when sales start to flag. Meanwhile, Asus looks to carve out niches to 
find profitable blue oceans to survive in.   I talked about this strategy in 
my video about the Nintendo Wii.   If you want to learn more about the upsides 
and downfalls of that strategy, go watch that. One major niche is the 
aforementioned gaming sector.   Gamers are less price conscious 
than the ordinary laptop consumer   and are willing to splurge for a high 
margin, high-performance machine. Another is in new, innovative form factors. 
The ZenBook Duo is one such laptop.   It experiments with the dual-screen concept, 
embedding the second screen alongside the   keyboard below the main screen. Many of these 
experimental products are not going to sell well.   When that happens, the company ramp down 
hard on production to cut its losses. But when it succeeds, the reward can be massive. 
After all, ASUS first rose to prominence   on the back of its discovery of the netbook 
niche with the Eee PC. Though the netbook   market did not last, the strategy stamped ASUS's 
ticket to the big time. That is why you grind,   because like how it is with making YouTube 
videos you never know what might go viral. Taiwan's economy punches above 
its weight, with market-leading   companies in disparate industries like 
chemicals, bicycles, and electronics. But another one of the issues market watchers 
and critics bring up about the Taiwanese economy   is its inability to build global brands. Where 
are Taiwan's global brands? Like a Samsung, Apple,   Nike, or Louis Vuitton. Is there a Taiwanese 
company that people the world over recognize? There are a lot of reasons why Taiwan is missing 
that big consumer brand. Here’s my thinking. One,   the island itself is a non-English speaking 
market too small to incubate a consumer contender.   Second, Taiwan's companies have focused their 
efforts on the components and reference design   business. It is a good, profitable business. 
Who wants to deal with end users? Yuck! And lastly, it is just hard to do. 
ASUS successfully crossed that void   from being a supplier to becoming a 
global brand, but it needed a massive,   complicated split and stock spinoff in order 
to pull it off. Thinking about its journey,   it makes a lot of sense why it has not 
happened as much as you might think.