- What is the perfect laptop? That's a big question. And here at CES I am
searching for the answer. So the main thing I wanna talk
about today is my experience going through the Lenovo
booth here at CES. They're very gracious
to sponsor this video, and I've actually had a
very good relationship with the Lenovo team over the last year. They've been able to sample me
a bunch of really cool stuff, not only on the gaming side, but also on the Yoga side, including this. This is the Yoga 9i 2-in-1. Now, this is something that
they've just announced here at CES, but I've been fortunate enough to be using an early sample
for the last couple of months. That is something I want to
give a special shout out to because trusting me with not
only just an early sample, but a proper prototype,
is something really cool. But it's been helpful for me in learning a lot more about this device, not only as it's been developed, but
also now that it's actually coming out on sale. I have a much better sense for
the evolution of the product and how close it gets to my ideal laptop. So here at CES there
are an enormous amount of brand new devices, and
I'll tell you what, look, out of everything I've looked at so far and I'll be continuing
to look at this week, there's very little that is bad, right? The idea of a bad laptop
doesn't really exist. I mean, sure, there's
some sort of no name, sort of junky sort of things, but laptops are good across the board. Even budget affordable devices. Same thing with phones,
same thing with, I mean, so many things are so competent these days that it's not really about
like, "Oh, is this okay?" It's more so of how well does
this suit your personal needs? So for me personally, what
I'm looking for in a laptop, number one is portability. I used to like 11 and 12 inch
laptops, that was my thing. So, I want something that can
be quite thin, quite light, and on top of that, I
want good battery life. I think everyone does, but
for me, I want be able to last through a full day of usage. I also want a good, high
refresh rate display. I'll be honest, I am spoiled. 60 hertz is no longer
good enough on anything. For my phone, for my laptop, whatever. So I want at least 90 hertz,
and then I need solid input. So I need a good keyboard
and a good track pad. That is a non-negotiable for me. And it's surprising that here in 2024, there are still laptops that
don't have great keyboards, but especially that don't
have great track pads. So when I put all of those together, the things that I don't
need become very obvious. I don't need a dedicated GPU. It's nice to have of course, but I'm not really gaming on my device, I'm getting work done. I am in email, web browsing,
researching, writing. I'm using this as a tool,
not as something for fun. If I'm wanting to do something for fun, I'm playing on a Steam Deck
or Legion Go or console or something, I don't need my daily device to be able to play games. That's my hunt, that's
what I'm looking at here. And as I've been able to spend time in the Lenovo Yoga booth,
there have been three laptops that have really jumped out to me. First and foremost is the Yoga Book. So this is the 9i, specifically
the new version for 2024. So you've got dual 13 inch displays, and you've also got the
brand new Intel Core Ultra. Specifically, it's a Ultra 7
with the U series chip, which means that you're
getting a very thin and light form factor,
especially considering that you've got dual displays here. So now that, do you have
this stand, which if I want, I can just open it up and set
it right on so you can see that you've got it in sort of
dual screen mode like this. Or if I want, I can
actually take this down, take the keyboard, which is magnetic, and then it attaches right here. So with the keyboard attached,
I actually have myself, the bottom display turns into a track pad. If you don't want it or you
wanna maybe just save just a little bit of extra weight in your bag, you can do eight fingers and
pull up a virtual keyboard and touch pad as well. You're getting a dual screen device that is coming in an ultra
thin, lightweight form factor that still has a solid 8,
9, 10 hours of battery life. On top of that, there is the Yoga Pro 9i. So if the Yoga Book is
for being thin, light, and creative on the go,
this is about getting real work done. Inside you can outfit this
with up to an RTX 4070 as well as an Intel Core Ultra 9 185H, which means that you
got serious performance not only for AI tasks, but
also to do 4K video editing. And it has a terrific PureSight display, which means that you've got
not only tons of brightness, but also importantly
165 hertz refresh rate. I will say, I got a demo of this earlier. This has some of the best
speakers I have ever heard on a laptop full stop. This is a creator laptop,
and I'll be honest, it is the kind of device
that is sort of made for me. I took a look at an earlier
version of this last year, the 14 inch version, and I liked it a lot, but I do not need a 16 inch laptop, and even the 14 inch
version of this laptop, while it's incredibly competent,
a little too heavy for me to wanna carry on a daily basis,
which is where I come down to this, the Yoga 9i 2-in-1. This checks a lot, and I
mean a lot of the boxes of what I'm looking for. Let me take you through
why I've enjoyed my time with this laptop, and why, well, I've gotta give my prototype
that I've been loving the last couple of months back. This is a really strong contender
for my next daily driver. So first and foremost, it gets
a lot of those basics right. You've got a terrific keyboard. I'll be honest, probably
the best laptop keyboard in the business, which isn't a surprise. I think Lenovo have been pretty
famous the last few years for just absolutely nailing the keyboards. But on top of that, I have
a very good touch pad. I also have the touch screen, and it has the magnetic
stylus, which comes in the box. There's also a sleeve that
comes in the box as well. And I've also got the 120 hertz, 2.8K PureSight OLED panel. Now, there are a lot of marketing terms that Lenovo have for these devices. So PureSight being their sort
of top of line display tech that again, high refresh
rate, good brightness, very color accurate, and in this case it's an OLED as well, which is incredibly nice. On top of that, this is also outfitted with their Premium Suite. What is their Premium Suite? It is basically the input. So you have a solid webcam, which also happens to
support Windows Hello in addition to a fingerprint sensor. You've got yourself very solid microphones and really good speakers
for a device like this. So it actually has a speaker bar that is built into the
hinge as well as two bottom firing speakers, which
combined for a laptop that's this thin and light
works out really quite well. And then there's the performance. So remember that whole
thing about how I don't need a gaming laptop? This is the sweet spot,
at least in my opinion. This is outfitted with
the brand new Intel Core Ultra 7 processor. So this is specifically an H
series processor, which means that you have not only 16 CPU cores. So that's split between six
performance, eight efficiency, and two high efficiency cores. On top of that, you have the AI engine, so this is going to be your
NPU essentially giving you a ton of accessibility
for AI related tasks, which I'll be honest are going
to become ever more prevalent in 2024 and beyond. There's also Intel Arc graphics. So this has enough horsepower
to actually do some gaming. So I've been able to play like, Fortnite, at like 120 Hertz on this
120 Hertz panel on a device that is this thin and light. There's also a dedicated AI chip onboard all three of these Yoga devices. So this actually handles a lot of things. So not only for the
security side of things, all of your AI data is
stored directly on this chip, but on top of that it actually
has some real life benefits. So one of them is for performance and specifically when it
comes to battery life. So what this chip is gonna
help do is coordinate all the different
components in your laptop. So say your CPU, your GPU. Essentially what it'll
do is help to throttle up and down based on the workload,
and it's always learning. There's also Creator
Zone, which allows you to do some actual cool AI tasks on device. So we're talking about
of course, text to image. You probably tried that in the past, but also because these
Yogas have the stylus, you can do sketch to image. So I was able to play around
with this a little bit. So I was able to draw a little fish and it was able to turn that
little very crude drawing into an actual proper AI piece of art. Now mind you, you're probably
gonna wanna tweak and tune it, but the idea that I can
quickly come up with an idea, sketch it down, and
turn that into something that I can actually use
is a powerful thing. So the Yoga ecosystem
is an interesting point because there's a number of
accessories that you can get with these devices. You've also got the Yoga Pro mouse, but on top of that, they've
got brand new earbuds. So these are gonna be
relatively affordable. We're talking 50 to 60 bucks. They not only feature quick pair, so you can easily just
bring them near your laptop and immediately set it
up, but also it has a lot of very cool AI learnings and active noise cancellation
at a really affordable price. This is not going on sale
until a little bit later this year, so I can't
listen to them just yet. The idea of having these
that you could easily pair between your devices,
move over to your phone with just a quick button tap or so. Mention that these aren't
coming out for a while and I can't break the
prototype. (chuckles) Yeah. I'm in the incredibly fortunate position to be able to play with an
enormous amount of cool tech and a ton of great laptops, and it's a good year if you
were interested in upgrading, especially on the laptop side, because there are so many
new processor improvements. The Yoga brand feels like
it is very much designed for creatives. You know, I mean, they give
you two months for free of the full Adobe Creative Cloud. That's like $110 that is included, even if you've already got
it, you just activate it and you just get two
months added to your total. There's a lot of stuff
that they do between that, between the stylus and
whatnot, between the terrific displays, et cetera, et cetera. That feels very much like
it is a laptop designed for creatives. You know, I mean, obviously Lenovo sell an enormous amount of PCs. They have the Legion gaming
brand, they have ThinkPad, which of course is very much meant more so for getting real work done. But I like where this sits, and I specifically like where this 9i sits for me personally. So I wanna give a huge thank
you to Lenovo for of course, not only sponsoring this video
and giving me the early tour, but also just trusting me with
a very, very early prototype of your very, very fancy new laptop. Thank you very much, I appreciate it. If you wanna learn
anything more about this or any of the other things I
talked about in this video, I will have links in the description, and I will catch you after I've
finished downing this coffee at 1:00 AM and questioning
my life decisions on finishing my videos on time. It's fine, I'll learn my lesson one day.