By 1984, there were over 100,000 Unix systems
running on everything from microprocessors to mainframes. Through organic growth and a strange quirk
of history, Unix had come to deeply enmesh itself into the computer industry. But the result of that un-curated organic
growth has been a sprawling ecosystem of unintelligible OS'es. A Babel of Unixes. Then suddenly its creator AT&T decided to
try and leverage this magnificent tool to make their way into the computer business. Those efforts were chaotic ... to say the
least. In this video, a chronicle of what we call the Unix Wars. ## The Breakup In 1983, Ma Bell broke up. Nearly a decade earlier, the United States
government had sued AT&T once more over its production of telephone equipment for its
telephone monopoly. In response, the company proposed that it relinquish that monopoly
and break itself up. The breakup would end the 1956 Consent Decree
that kept AT&T from selling computers. They had long wanted to offer what are known as
"enhanced services" - communication services beyond just the simple transmission of data.
They wanted to get involved in that data's content. As this breakup plan percolated, AT&T started
to take steps towards making Unix a commercial venture. In 1975, Bell Labs produced the Version
6 of Unix. It was the first version of Unix crafted with an eye for outside sale. AT&T started to sell commercial licenses for
Version 6 through its subsidiary Western Electric. They charged about $20,000 to run Unix on
the first machine, and another $8,000 for each additional one. The price apparently came about because the
guy in charge of this at AT&T had real work to do and so chose a number that he thought
would be so high nobody would bother him about it. But people paid it, because Unix had found
for itself a real market out there. ## Fragmentation Two major trends drove this commercial market
for Unix products. First, you had programmers using the BSD Unix
coding environment during their time in university. They enjoyed it and wanted to keep on using
it after graduation. Ergo, Unix's strong point was in the engineering/scientific/technical
applications space. Second, you had this market trend of cheap
but powerful workstation computers hitting the market. Systems like those from Sun Microsystems,
which positioned Unix at the heart of their systems. The first wave of companies servicing this
need were porting houses - companies that simply changed Unix to run on another piece
of hardware. Examples were UniSoft, Santa Cruz Operation, and so on. But over time, larger companies joined in.
Companies like DEC, Data General, and even IBM started offering versions of Unix for
their own hardware. Often with changes made for their own differentiation. With Unix’s creator AT&T largely out of
the market, it ended up a huge mess. Despite sharing up to 90% of the code, applications
written for one Unix variant cannot run on all the others. The community did not have a leader. Many
of the variants were not allowed to call themselves Unix - because AT&T owned the trademark - but
it worked similarly to Unix. The whole thing confused users and the marketplace. ## System V A year before the AT&T breakup, Ma Bell had
combined their various versions of Unix into a single system which they called Unix System
III. A few additional features - including a number
from BSD - were then added to create System V. This Unix product received its own division
within AT&T - AT&T Information Systems. Later, Unix System Laboratories or USL. System V was announced as a commercial product
in January 1983 at the Unicom conference in San Diego. The licensing terms were a bit
pricey, with a commercial license for the source code costing $43,000. More if you wanted
add-ons. AT&T wanted to make their version of Unix
- this System V - the standard Unix operating system to be adopted by everyone. ## The First Clash So in 1983, System V made up one major branch
of the Unix tree, with official backing from AT&T. The other branch was BSD Unix, which was then
a significant player in the university market and the foundation for many commercial systems. That same year, the Computer Systems Research
Group - which maintained BSD - released 4.2BSD which included popular extensions like TCP/IP
internet networking. This struggle between System V and BSD makes
up the first stage of the Unix Wars. Users like hardware makers had to decide which of
the two to adopt. Some like IBM and Hewlett-Packard decided
to use the System V Unix. While others like Sun chose to extend BSD - namely the 4.2 variant
that Bill Joy last worked on - for their Sun OS. And they were different. System V at the start
did not support internet networking like 4.xBSD. Nor did it have BSD's Berkeley Fast File System,
which was seen as an improvement on the old file system. Or the virtual memory system
that made it so well suited for 32-bit VAX minicomputers. The struggle also pitted two different cultures.
AT&T was seen as the evil big business, and the Berkeley people as the ragtag group of
underdog rebels. The famous Mt. Xinu posters reflected this culture. But since BSD Unix was ultimately just a few
helpful extensions to existing AT&T code, people needed to first get a very pricey AT&T
source license before using it. This became a big obstacle for BSD's commercial
adoption. Throughout the 1980s, former BSD vendors and users switched over as System
V adopted BSD's features. They might as well if they had to get an AT&T license anyway. The license requirements - along with AT&T's
increasingly tight grip on them - had other repercussions. University professors previously
had Unix content in their classes as a "teaching tool" for operating systems. This content
was purged and became more theory based. Textbooks too were under AT&T's control since
they contained Unix source code. One famous such textbook was the "Lions Commentary on
Unix", a cherished text. Eventually down the line, AT&T's grip will squeeze too tightly. ## AT&T's Computer Business On March 27th 1984, AT&T formally entered
the computer business. They hit the market with a range of computers
from desktop PCs to "super-minicomputers" - targeting customers producing their own
applications. One of AT&T's key assets in that push would be Unix. An article at the
time mentioned: > AT&T for the past year has been pushing
to have UNIX adopted as an industry standard and today it claimed that it has been "very
successful." But AT&T's line of Unix computers struggled
to gain widespread acceptance. Ordinary users found AT&T's Unix PCs hard to use compared
to alternatives like MS-DOS on IBM PCs. And application developers found it hard to
write software for Unix because of all the variants and the slight differences between
them. Why not write for Microsoft with their more consistent and larger ecosystem? By 1985, MS-DOS had five times the number
of applications than Unix. Without the applications, customers and users were shy to adopt AT&T's
platforms. Chicken and egg situation. In 1986, AT&T took a $1.2 billion loss - losses
in the computer market comprised of about half of that. They laid off over 24,000 people, closed plants,
offloaded some of the PC business to Olivetti and shifted their strategy to selling computer
systems for the telecommunications industry. If AT&T wanted Unix to turn around their computer
business, then they had to unify this sprawling, mess of a family tree. But how to do that?
That is when Sun came knocking. ## AT&T and Sun In 1987, AT&T and Sun joined forces. Sun Microsystems was the largest Unix vendor
- with their OS built on top of 4.2 BSD. They and AT&T felt that by combining their forces,
they could unify the platform and build it into a formidable challenger. By October of that year, they had a deal.
AT&T received an option to buy 20% in Sun and a seat on the board. And the two would
merge together their versions of Unix - along with Microsoft's Xenix system - to create
System V Release 4. So Sun would issue a new version of SunOS
with one based on this new release of Unix. Sun in turn would receive preferential treatment
as AT&T built out the software. Sun and AT&T envisioned this new Unix as an
"open" technical standard that anybody in the computing industry can use. AT&T apparently
at the time felt that they needed Sun's marketing heft to complement their technical chops. ## The Hamilton Group But Hardware vendors like DEC, IBM and Hewlett-Packard
panicked. Rival hardware makers used Unix as a foundation
on which they can lay on their own features - making Unix a public utility essentially.
AT&T's move was alarming because it seemed like they were going to wipe away all those
value-adds and impose their own standard. Not to mention that Sun was their direct competitor.
And shortly before the AT&T announcement, Sun had just announced their own homegrown
RISC microprocessor - SPARC. If Unix became a market standard and Unix was optimized to
work best on SPARC, then Sun gets a massive leg up on everyone. In January 1988, representatives of independent
Unix ecosystem members like Apollo, DEC, Honeywell, Bull and Hewlett-Packard began to talk about
uniting in opposition to the Sun-AT&T alliance. At first, they called themselves the Hamilton
Group, because they met at DEC's Western Research Laboratory on Hamilton Ave in Palo Alto, California.
First they met with the man in charge of AT&T's computer efforts - Vittorio Cassoni - with
little result. AT&T essentially told them to pound sand. So in May 1988, they invited IBM and together
founded the Open Software Foundation or OSF. OSF would pool its members' Unix variants
and work towards the eventual release of an AT&T-free Unix. On a more amusing note, OSF put together two
hated rivals - DEC and IBM. At the OSF announcement, a Wall Street Journal reporter said that he
and nobody else present had ever recalled DEC cofounder Ken Olsen ever sharing a stage
with an IBM executive before. When Unix originator Ken Thompson heard about
this whilst traveling in Australia, he turned to Dennis Ritchie and said, "Just think, IBM
and DEC in one room. We did it!" ## OSF versus Unix International Sun's CEO Scott McNealy did not appreciate
it as much. He called OSF the "Oppose Sun Forever Foundation". Soon after this, Sun and AT&T founded Unix
International - whose members also included Intel, Toshiba, Unisys, and Motorola. They
agreed to build products around their version of Unix. Over the next few years, OSF and Unix International
worked to fulfill their promises, signing up over 200 various members to their coalition.
OSF co-opted much of Sun's "open" language, appealing to themes of liberty and justice
to get the hype rolling. But OSF's realities struggled to meet their
idealistic language. Many of its members - Apollo excepted - were in the mainframe market and
they were competitors. It was like herding cats, bogged down in politics. For instance, OSF had to start with IBM's
AIX variant of Unix. This apparently was one of IBM's conditions for joining the coalition.
So the whole thing turned out to be a true product-by-committee process. Two years later in 1989, OSF had an interesting
user interface called Motif but little else. And worsening economic conditions destabilized
its member companies. The mainframe market was shrinking. HP ended
up buying Apollo and was circling around Bull. DEC, IBM and others were losing money in computers. By 1992, OSF had abandoned the big idealistic
goal of releasing a AT&T-free Unix OS. With the sponsors struggling to keep afloat, the
organization eventually lost its funding and shriveled away. At least Sun managed to get SunOS out during
this period of time, and it turned out be a pretty good product. And they adopted Motif
too. ## BSD Splits from AT&T By the late 1980s, BSD Unix no longer had
commercial viability as an operating system. But BSD still had value. AT&T was raising
the costs of its licensing fees. Back in 1979, a commercial license cost $20,000. By the
end of the decade, those fees had climbed to a staggering $100,000. In 1993 they would
be double that. Users wanting to build standalone TCP/IP products
had to pay AT&T for a license for non-AT&T code. So they asked to split out BSD's networking
code from the AT&T code. This was completed in 1989 as Networking Release
1 or Net/1. Keith Bostic at CRSG then pushed for a total
purge of AT&T's copyrighted code. 18 months later in 1991, work on what was called Networking
Release 2 or Net/2 version of BSD had been completed. The team tried to identify everything they
saw to be AT&T code and reimplemented it using what was called the "Clean Room" method. And
they were largely successful with the exception of six files in the kernel judged too difficult
to do. ## The Lawsuit Aware that they had something interesting,
several former members of the CRSG broke off. In 1992, they founded a commercial entity
called Berkeley Software Design Inc, or BSDi. With the university's permission, they started
selling a new variant of Net/2 BSD called 386BSD but with those six files added back
in. All these names, wow. BSDi sold 386 BSD at a 99% discount on USL
Unix licenses. And they advertised it as a product that did substantially the same thing.
The phone number on the ad was even 1-800-ITS-UNIX. AT&T obviously did not like that. They asked
them to amend the marketing, which BSDi did. But AT&T - through its USL subsidiary - sued
them anyway to halt the distribution. As is always the case, the trial dragged on
and on. BSDi agreed that the six files were on them, but the other 16,000 or so files
were already being distributed by Berkeley. What’s the deal? The judge agreed and asked
USL to amend the complaint. AT&T realized that six measly files would
not make for a very strong case. So they refiled the lawsuit but now they added the University
of California - asking to halt the NET/2 BSD distribution as well. Near the end of 1992, a judge heard the arguments.
He denied the injunction and threw out all but two of the complaints. The University
of California filed a countersuit, arguing that AT&T had incorporated Berkeley's code
into System V without proper credit. The lawsuit was highly covered in its time. ## The Wars End In December 1992, AT&T sold the Unix subsidiary
USL to Novell, an Utah-based software company. Novell had pioneered the local area network
or LAN in the 1980s, and wanted to integrate Unix into their NetWare network operating
system. Ray Noorda, Novell's co-founder and CEO, said
that he would rather compete in the marketplace rather than the courtroom. USL and the University
of California backed away from the courtroom. Though a settlement wouldn't come until 1994,
largely in Berkeley's favor. AT&T selling Unix to Novell put the first
damper on the Unix Wars. But the chaos had massive repercussions. I mentioned in an earlier
video about Sun Microsystems that it allowed Windows NT to invade Unix's turf in workstations
and higher computing. Released in late July 1993, Windows NT 3.1
offered a "business-oriented" operating system - more high powered than its traditional desktop
computer OS. Many features were inspired by Unix - 32-bit, networking, file-sharing for
multi-user collaboration, and so on. Microsoft recognized that what businesses
and developers … developers … developers truly wanted was a consistent experience with
Unix-like features. And that is what Microsoft produced for them. NT combined with Microsoft's formidable marketing
firepower scared the industry into finally ending the Unix Wars. In March 1993, members from both OSF and Unix
International banded together to create the Common Open Software Environment, or COSE. COSE's goal was to finally build a common
environment across the fractured Unix space. Novell handed the Unix brand name to the organization
running COSE - X/Open - so that compliant OS variants can receive the brand. ## GNU/Linux Another beneficiary of the Unix Wars was Linux
... or GNU/Linux - I know there is a naming controversy here
but I am going to leave it aside. In the early 1980s in response to AT&T's attempts
to monetize Unix, an MIT professor named Richard Stallman started working on an operating system
project called GNU. The goal was to create a package of truly
free software compatible with a set of standards set up by the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (IEEE) POSIX working group. POSIX was a set of US government approved
standards defining the APIs that all "operating systems" needed to be able to support. Anyway, over time a lot of software for GNU
was written except the kernel. The kernel is at the core of the operating system. It
manages memory, processes, disk space, and more - so it is quite important. This kernel eventually came about through
the efforts of a Finnish undergraduate named Linus Torvalds. He had been inspired by an
educational Unix OS called Minix to write what eventually ended up being an operating
system kernel. In 1991, he posted about it in the Minix newsgroup,
and the combined project quickly gained contributors from that ecosystem. A year later, we have
Linux. The Linux community's approach took some parts
of Unix's way of operating. Volunteer contributors around the world working on a common code
base - pushing changes. But Linux has a natural leader - its founder
Linus. This helped keep the community from fragmenting like Unix's did. With the founder
acting as a curator of code changes, Linux was able to ship updates and fixes at a very
rapid pace. Furthermore, Linux's source code was from
the very beginning open to everyone - a true public utility. So you avoid another situation
like when AT&T changed the terms of the deal and started aggressively monetizing the software. Thus over time, Linux overtook Unix as the
primary "open" operating system particularly for scientific and technical applications.
They made especially great gains in the two years when BDSi and AT&T had been embroiled
in their courtroom drama. ## Conclusion The Unix Wars were wars of Conquest. That
conquest failed. I feel for AT&T's position here. They must
have felt like they hit the jackpot. This thing that they thought they owned had turned
into one of the core foundations of a thriving part of the computer industry. But their attempts to monetize Unix in these
days is a reflection of that line Bill Gates reportedly said to Chamath back during their
Facebook days: > A platform is when the economic value of
everybody that uses it, exceeds the value of the company that creates it. Then it’s
a platform Unix the platform made a lot of value for
the community using it. AT&T - not unfairly - felt entitled to a larger share of that
value as the creator of said platform. But in doing so, they would have to centralize
and organize a delicate community of users. Those users had viable alternatives. When
pressed, the community eventually fled to greener grass. Unix is still around of course. The branches
of Unix have famous descendants. OracleSolaris, HP-UX, FreeBSD, and OpenBSD are notables. And I should also mention, the very popular
MacOS and iOS are very distant descendants via NeXTSTEP - which was an offshoot of 4.3BSD
among others. If you want to see it that way, Unix’s family
exceeded everyone’s expectations. But the story of the Unix Wars leave many to wonder,
what could have been.