- Hey guys, this is Austin. Every year at CES we see
a lot of tech and cars, but no one really does
it better than Toyota. So when Toyota reached
out and offered to sponsor a look at what they've got at the show, I couldn't say no. The biggest, shiniest new
toy is known as the TRI-P4. This is developed by
Toyota's Research Institute and is built around the Lexus LS 500h. Unlike most autonomous vehicles,
this actually looks cool. Yeah I know, it's a revolutionary concept. It's still heavily
modified with things like lidar, camera, radar, and much more, but the most important thing is that Toyota is actually taking
two approaches here. Their Guardian tech is about making driving safer with a
person behind the wheel, whereas Chauffeur's all about full autonomy in almost any scenario. Now this is a big deal, right? Autonomous vehicles are not ready for the mainstream just yet. There's still a lot of work to do to bring fully driverless
cars to the mainstream, but Toyota is such a huge company, and they span across so many areas that it's really
interesting to take a look at some of their other investments. I got the chance to cohost the Toyota Untold podcast recently to get a better idea of
how this all plays out. - Yeah, so Toyota AI Ventures is Toyota's first dedicated
venture capital fund, and it's focused on investing
in early stage companies that are focusing on
artificial intelligence, data as applied to autonomous
mobility, and robotics. Many of the startups are
defining what mobility means, and so we are investing in those companies that are defining mobility. - Another cool company
here is May Mobility. Now this is actually a company who has autonomous vehicles
on the road right now in Detroit as well as Columbus, and this is their next generation vehicle. So this is a version that would
have absolutely no driver. So as you can see in the front seat I'm actually facing back
toward other passengers, and as it has all these different sensors and as the technology develops, you can imagine a fully autonomous
version of this vehicle. Unlike a lot of the
vehicle stuff here at CES, May Mobility actually has
these on the streets right now. So it is a slightly different version, and it does have a driver, so in case there's any kind of issues, but the idea is that
this is the final format of what it will become
hopefully in the next few years. Something you don't exactly see every day is a hydrogen-powered truck. So this is Project Portal. It's a collaboration
between Kenworth and Toyota, and it's a, well, let's just take a look. Not quite like any truck
you've seen or that I've seen. This is where the magic happens. There are six carbon fiber hydrogen tanks which are enough to use the
electric motor right behind it to pull a ton of cargo. This is actually more powerful
that a standard diesel truck. So now I get to explore the truck. This may be a questionable idea. I've actually never been
inside of one of these before. This is really cool. So what's interesting about this is that the truck chassis itself is not that different
from a lot of others, but there's a lot of special
bespoke parts for this one. For example, there's a Mirai
shifter here because why not? What's cool about this is that it actually is a proper truck too. There is a full 300 miles of range, and right now the prototype is
actually at the port of L.A. bringing cargo back and forth all day. So it's actually a really interesting idea of getting away from a standard electric or standard sort of diesel truck into something that's just
a little bit more high tech. By a little I mean a lot. Hydrogen's pretty cool. The days of a car company that
just makes cars that will get you from point A to
point B are quickly ending. Technology is rapidly changing things, alternative fuels are
rapidly changing things, and the idea that you don't
actually have to drive your car is a big, big selling point. So it is super interesting to see just how Toyota is
taking advantage of this and really becoming an all new company.