- Can I fix this iPhone the Apple approved way? So a little while ago,
Apple launched their Self Service Repair program, something which is theoretically designed for people like
you and I to go online, buy the parts, get the
tools, everything we need to fix our broken phones ourselves. My main question is, does
it make sense for you to try to repair this yourself
the Apple approved way? Or should you just take
it to an Apple Store and let them do it for you? Or even take it to a
third-party repair shop and hope that they can
put a screen in here that doesn't make iOS yell
at you constantly that, "It is a non-genuine Apple part." You have any third-party friends? 'Cause Apple sure don't. (wheezing) So we're gonna start on apple.com. Go to the Support page. And then I need support for Apple Repair! Well, yes. "Self Service Repair is
intended for individuals with the knowledge and experience to repair electronic devices." That's me, so I'm using an
iPhone 12 for this process. Though this is the oldest
device that Apple support, at least on the iPhone side. And I think it's actually
a good candidate for this because whilst it's a few years old, it's still a very usable phone today. And the main issues with
this particular device is it does have a very shattered display, which it does technically
work, but it's quite jagged. And it does have some sorta
scuffing on the outside as well as a battery which is
a little bit lower on health. So my goal here is to
replace not only the display, but also the battery
with genuine Apple parts! I see what I need. I need the battery,
which is a part number, and I also need the display, which has two part numbers. Okay, tools, that seems
like a lot of stuff for a screen, man! Okay, oh what? Wait, wait, wait. This is what they're talking about. This is, like, a whole,
like, display heater device. Wait, wait, wait. Hold on a second. I was expecting to do like, you know, the blow dryer thing, not a whole machine. I've heard that there is a way for you to rent tools that you don't own. Now, clearly I don't own a 6.1-inch display heaty-uppy thing, so I guess I'm gonna rent one. There are 33 steps to remove the display and 28 steps to install a new one. I mean, I'll give them that these are very thorough instructions. They've got good animations,
good text or at least it looks good on the surface. Let me purchase some
genuine Apple parts next. Wait, wait, sorry,
sorry, hang on a second. There's a return part credit. I guess the way it works is
I spend $49 on a tool kit, which theoretically has everything. (Austin chuckling) It comes in a case that weighs 43 pounds and a second case that weighs 36 pounds. You're trying to tell me this
is environmentally friendly to ship 70-plus pounds
of cases back and forth? I knew we were in for one today, but holy- - [Robotic Voice] Hugs. - Dude! You know, here's the other thing. So it costs $50 that
includes the shipping. But I guarantee you that it costs them more than $49 to ship these cases back and forth, right? The serial number is required and will be shared with Apple. This number must be from the
device that's being repaired or you may encounter issues that prevent the completion of the repair. Okay, serial number has been accepted. The repair manual ID
is a six-character code in the repair manual. I have to scroll through this whole thing and find the six-digit code. Where's my six-digit code? Oh my God, it's right here. (sighing) That's so stupid! It's not even in the manual! It's in the page with
all the manual links. Oh my, so let me just get
a little grand total here. Including my $49 rental of $409.94. My grand total after buying the parts, and renting the tool kit, and returning everything assuming nothing goes wrong is $333.62. (throat clearing) Just gonna point out that
I could buy an entire iPhone 12 refurbished for $326. So when I saw this box show up, I'm like, "Sweet, that's
all my new components!" So we've got our security screws, the screen, all that kinda stuff. But then I saw the tools. (case thudding) - Okay, okay.
- Okay, so if you need to repair your iPhone 12, it just is a simple case of 70 pounds worth of tools and your actual parts that you need. All right, let's see what
we got in case number one. So this is our heated
display removal fixture. And okay! That's a chungus right there, wow! Also, I like that it uses
an old iMac power cable. That's just lovely. Now, it does come with
a prepaid shipping label to send back to Apple, which is nice. Next, let's open up the second one. Yeah, (chuckling). - [Ken] This is like Apple's
passive aggressive way of saying, "Here you go, enjoy!" - So you pick what we're
having for dinner tonight. Oh, I don't care. We'll eat whatever you want. So this press is the display press. Oh God, these things are so legit. They're so, like, heavy
and just solid metal. What the hell am I looking at here? Dude, this is solid aluminium. Look at the entire thing. - [Ken] Did you say aluminium? - Aluminium!
- Oh my God, the influence. Oh my God, you're right, it's really- - Jony Ive told me that
it's called aluminium. - Oh my, oh my God! - It's a solid chunk! And then we have a couple of boxes which include all kinds of stuff. So we've got tweezers and suction cups, our entire tool kit as well with all the bits and
drivers that we might need. No turning back now, my friends. Let us begin! We have to start regardless of whether you're doing a battery
repair screen or whatever. We have to start by
replacing this display. So we're going to take the screen off, we're gonna remove the speaker, then we're gonna take the battery out, and then new battery in,
speaker, put it back, and then put a new display on it, and call it a day. Hey, look, if I can do it, anyone can do it, right? So let's crack open an iPhone, shall we? So before we actually turn this on, we have two tiny little screws on the bottom of the phone that we need to remove using their incredibly fancy little screwdriver. So we've got our two little screws, the only screws that are
gonna be easy, I think, in this whole process to remove. And now, it is time to
fire up our display press. So this is ready to go. So now, I'm going to take the phone and put it into this pocket so you can see that it just
kinda slides in like this. And then I'm going to clamp it down. We're just gonna make sure it's not gonna go anywhere. (phone clacking)
(Austin sighing) Okay, I'm gonna put on
my heat-resistant gloves. Ah, okay, cool. So we now have two minutes
for this to heat up! There's high likelihood of me messing something up right now. So I'm like on edge, you know? It's like you're about to go out and do something exciting.
(kid giggling) Two, one. (display press beeping) Now we have a 15 minutes, so we only have 14 minutes to finish this. Otherwise, it's gonna get too hot, and it's gonna get angry at us. "Slowly turn the knob counterclockwise until the display begins to separate." So it's on there, hopefully. So now if I unscrew it,
it's gonna pull it out. Oh, can you see that? I actually see the screen's actually starting to pop out a little bit, but it's only coming out on this side, not the other side, yo! What I can do now is I can
actually take this cutter, and I'm just gonna sort of slide it out to make sure it's partially removed. So let me be careful 'cause I don't wanna go too far in 'cause it could cause problems. Okay, suction cup is released. Okay, so press this button. (button clicking) And that, my friends, is a partially replaced display. So all we've done, even though
that seemed really scary, is we've just heated up the display to the point where we've got it started. So now I'm gonna probably
let this cool a little bit and release the phone. (phone clacking) Oh! Okay, the phone has been released! So now, we have our repair tray, which is where we need to
place the phone to do repairs. I really don't wanna put any pressure around these cracks, like, can I slightly do it or? Yo, no, you know what? When I start pushing down, it literally cracked a little bit more. There we go. Okay, we're in. And we're just gonna start sliding. Oh yeah, boy. Let's go! Let's go! Yeah, we did it! Okay, that display is fully loose. So now, I'm going to pick the iPhone up. So I'm done with my little clip here. Yeah, I'm just gonna move the whole phone. So I'm gonna attach it to
these suction cups here. Okay, so I'm gonna push that in firmly. So hopefully, the suction
cups do the thing. And then as I gently
pull the phone toward me, this display should stay up here. So you ready? You know what? It's resealed a little bit. (Austin gasping) Oh, the display, like, it settled back in. - [Alex] (laughing) 'Cause you pushed it. - Yeah, 'cause I pushed
it into the suction cup. I squished the whole thing. Wait, hold on, hold on.
That's okay, it's okay. Wait, wait, it's actually coming out. It's coming out, hold on. It's coming out.
- Oh my God. - No, I got it, I got it, I got it! It's look, yeah, yeah, I got it! I got it, I got it!
(crew laughing) Yeah, boy! Yay, we did the thing! That's the screen there, and the phone not there anymore. So now that we're inside the phone, what we need to do is just remove the actual display itself. So there are two screws
here that I need to undo, and I'm assuming I'm gonna
pull that ribbon cable out to fully detach it. (screwdriver clacking) These tiny screws are gonna
get lost in the iPhone and never be seen again. That's actually really helpful 'cause these screws are like, they're to the point where it's probably hard to see on camera. Can you just get a closeup of that? That is the size of the screw
we're talking about here. Screw number four. And then they say use tweezers, but my fingers are better, yeah. (Austin groaning) Oh no! That is bad! Oh, we're good, we're good, okay. Hey, okay, so battery is
now, I believe, disconnected. So we'll clear that out of our way. And then yeah, just remove the display. And theoretically, there we go. Goodbye, broken iPhone screen! So now, let us remove the speaker. The thing is, there are
a lot of screws in here. I'm glad that these
guides are quite detailed because there's a whole
lot of little screws, looks very similar and right side by side, but you don't wanna undo some of them, and you definitely wanna undo others. Oh. That's it? That's the speaker? Oh dude, there's, like, a
cable or something to it. So it has these two little pins, which I assume is how
the actual speaker runs. And that's it. That is
your iPhone speaker. That's actually really neat. They really gave us exactly what we need to actually make this repair happen. I appreciate that. That is much better. Okay, so this is one tab. So basically I'm just trying
to peel all this stuff off so I can actually get
to the adhesive itself. That looks like a thing that's supposed to happen right now. Yeah, all right, all right. I don't know where they get this adhesive. This is, like, some of the
stickiest stuff I've ever seen. That, my friends. Oh wow, I actually had a lot of tab left. So this is the, so I did get all the adhesive off the top. I didn't get it off the bottom, so that's where it snapped. There you go. You want a little adhesive action, that's what holds your battery in place. All right. (battery press clanging) Now, it's time to begin by reinstalling our battery, and then we'll do everything
else in reverse order. Now obviously, if you're
watching this video, this is not a tutorial
on how do you put it back together, an iPhone. But the main thing I'm
trying to learn here is that for someone who's
never done this before, is this a possible repair? And so far, while I don't
obviously have it up and running yet, the answer is yes. The answer is this is
actually quite complicated, but ultimately, not
incredibly difficult to do. Okay, speaker has been reinstalled! It is time to install our battery. So left, I mean, it should just go in. I don't think there's
a whole lot of anything I can do to, like, I'd say, mess it up. It is definitely slightly not straight. (Austin chuckling) So this is my battery press. So I need to lift this up. And now, (chuckling) we're gonna attempt to lock it down and hope that it works! And I didn't, I mean,
the battery is in there. It's not straight, it's in there, and there's a little wiggle room. So we'll just find out. So I'm going to flip it down, okay. And so we're on board. Here goes nothing, so one. I will say, I don't know how
much this roller is doing. I could've just probably pushed it down, but whatever, it's fine, okay. And now with any luck,
our battery's installed! And we did it! I need to remove this from the panel and gently shake the phone, sound, see if anything sounds loose. Also, if the battery
sounds loose at this point, you're supposed to remove the battery and get a new battery. I'm not even kidding. If you don't install this right, throw it away and try again. (chuckling) I actually understand this
is pretty well-aligned. Mostly because there's
also little lots of cuts in the plastic, which
goes around the component. So as I'm putting this in, I think, I think we're okay. Press plate on top of the enclosure. Okay, that's on here. Here goes nothing. So we're gonna push it down. (battery press clicking) And then we gotta wait 30 seconds. Okay, so we'll lift up. (dramatic music) (Austin groaning) Oh, so a little concerning. We need get outta here.
(siren blaring) It's not good!
(crew laughing) I'll get you out, little buddy. I'll get you out! I'm not doing this a bit by the way. This is a real- - [Crew] Pull. - Pull out! Pull down
the lever and pull out. Oh, okay, okay, crisis averted. We're all fine! We're all good. Nothing is broken, right? Yeah, okay. Okay, so I guess I'll use tweezers to pick up this little tab. Okay, I think that's fine, right? Oh yeah, yeah. No, that is fine, that is fine. 'Cause I see that there's
still more plastic underneath. So I can just peel this off now. Now, it is time to get my
trusty suction cups back 'cause we're gonna start
putting the display back in. This is just gonna hold the
display in the correct spot so I can connect all of
our little ribbon cables. Okay, and there we go. That's in there. These absolute mad lads just tell you to just close it up, seal it, call it a day. Let's fire up the iPhone without the screen fully assembled and see if it works. Okay, so we're plugged in, and now... Yeah, boy! That's an Apple logo on my screen! Here, just hold this. Yes, the touch screen works. Let me confirm that everything works. So screen functions, touch seems to be fine. Oh, Face ID issue detected. I wonder what could be
wrong with my Face ID! It also is telling me that my display is not a genuine Apple product,
which actually is normal, because once I close this
back up and do it for real, I need to put in the serial
number and activate it. That's fine. All this stuff is fine. Okay, so I'm gonna put
this back into place, resuckify it, close this thing up, and we will be good to go. So I have manually pushed
the display into place, so it is largely correct now. However, there is a potentially
slight gap right here where I'm kind of squishing
that cable a little bit, which unfortunately, wasn't quite correct. I'm gonna set this into position. Okay, here goes nothing. (display press beeping)
(clamp clicking) And now, I'm gonna replace the iPhone and pop it out here. And can I feel a gap? Oh, I don't feel a gap anymore. It squished it down. Before I get too excited, let me find my tiny little screws. Flush. (sighing) (crew clapping) Take off the screen protector and... (screen protector ripping) That, my friends, is a brand new display and brand new battery on our iPhone 12. The last step here is to run
our system configuration. With that, I'm going to press the volume up and down buttons and then plug it into power. Initiating, correct components. So we've gone through the step. Battery Health, 100%. It all shows up like it's a
legitimate authentic battery. That, my friends, is our repaired iPhone. (Austin sighing) Is Apple Self Service Repair worth it? When you look at the
financial side of this, it does not make sense to use Self Service Repair, like, at all. In fact, a couple of these
repairs would've been cheaper to have the Apple Genius
Bar do it for you. So I paid $234.36 for the new display assembly for this iPhone 12. And that is including the rebate I get for shipping back
the old display, right? So I'm gonna quote that in
all of these prices, so $234. Now, if I took this to the Genius Bar, it would cost $279. So I am saving some money here. But you also have to factor
in the $50 I spent on tools, which puts us at $5 more than having Apple do it themselves. Now, there is the option to purchase a new display from iFixit. Now, this is going to run you $145, although like Apple, if
you send in your display, you'll get a refund. In this case, it's $10 off. So I'm gonna quote iFixit at $135. Now, that is a significantly better deal, and unlike spending $50
for the Apple tools, iFixit is only a $5 upgrade. Although for $5, you're
getting a heated display pick versus a full-on display
press, and battery roller, and everything like that. So the level of tools is
significantly going to be less, but you're going to get
that at a way cheaper price. Now, when it comes to
replacing the battery, Self Service Repair looks a
little bit more competitive. So after I returned the battery
that came with the phone, it's gonna cost me $46
for the replacement. Now, that compares pretty well with $89 to get a battery replacement
at the Genius Bar, but keep in mind that that
is not including the $50 I would have to pay on the Apple tools. Now iFixit does look a
little bit better here in that it is $40 for a new battery and again, $5 for the tools to get in. But I will say that while the screen was a fairly involved process, the battery is a step further because you, of course,
have to take off the screen and the speaker, and you
have to pull the battery out. So this is an area where I actually, even though the Genius
Bar is more expensive, would probably spend
the extra 40, 45 bucks and have them do it. That being said though, if we actually talk about the overall
value of these repairs, a battery actually makes sense. So this is, of course,
all based on an iPhone 12. So these prices can slightly change if you're using a newer phone. But the problem is, is
that we're talking about spending 2, $300 repairing this iPhone, which is only worth, like, 300 bucks. And there's a certain point at which it's kind of hard to justify
spending that much money to keep this phone going. But if we sum all this
up, I'll tell you this, as much as I want Self Service Repair to be a viable option, it's not. They're serializing all these
certified Apple components, which means that when you do go to iFixit and buy third parties, or if you went to your local repair shop that's not using authentic Apple parts, you're getting parts that are giving you constant error saying,
"Hey, I'm not authentic. Oh, you can't see the
battery's health anymore. Oh, your True Tone doesn't work." Look, all of these things
that feel very anti-consumer, it feels like on one hand, Apple is saying that they
support Self Service Repair. On the other hand, they're making it basically impossible to have
any other option out there that's a smooth, seamless thing. I wish that alongside Self Service Repair, they would just ease the (popping) up when it comes to all the serialized stuff. I gotta say like, I'm
pretty cynical about this whole Self Service Repair thing. Like, it just is clearly not the answer for literally anyone
besides Mother Nature.