(tense upbeat music) - All I saw was something-- - [Ken] Okay, Neo. - Flying out of the corner of my eye to the point where I definitely
just gave myself rug burn. My hand is actually very red, I don't know if you can see that but this is what you did to me. Okay, that's... It's much harder to open than I thought. Okay, I got it. I told you, it's much harder
to open than I thought. (laughing) How dare you? Nix Color Sensor. What's the point of a color sensor? This table is brown, I learned that this table is brown. Excellent. Hold on, here we'll see that-- What color's my shirt? Dark yellow. Let's see what color is Mewtwo? - [Matt] Did you know what colors are? - [Ken] It's not gonna work. It's gonna be too dark.
- [Matt] You can't ask the audience what color they are. - Black. The camera's black. Oh God, oh God, oh God. Got it. What's up? The Aqua Shift Xbox Series X controller. Is that-- Are you about to tell me that this is gonna show up as aqua? - [Matt] But what's cool about these guys is that the grips are all unique. There's no two that are alike. - Ooh, yo, that looks awesome. - [Ken] Oh, I like that. - Wow. And yet you can see that the grips, you see how they're very, like it almost looks like it's been like hydro dipped or something. - [Ken] Wait, no, no, no, no. - My jeans. - [Ken] Oh. - Mystery Tech. That was actually really gentle and kind. We have Mountain. Oh, okay. So Mountain is actually something we featured on the channel before. They had that crazy modular keyboard that you could attach a number row, you could add like little
dial, all kinds of stuff. I guess they have more things. - [Ken] They say here
in their press pack, 139 for the keyboard itself. - Okay. - [Ken] Keyboard and
key caps together is 160. And I believe that the number pad that's to the left of
it, which is really cool because it hooks up
magnetically and has connectors is an extra 40 bucks. - That's a value proposition right there. Especially if this
keyboard does sound as nice as I assume it would. Ooh, all right. All right, all right. Let me take a look at this. Oh wow. (keys clanking) - [Ken] Oh, I like that. Oh, put it down, put it down,
put it down, put it down. Wait, I'm curious, wait. - Wait, hey! - I wanna try it! - No, next. I'm first, I'm first. (keys clattering) - Okay, these pre-builts never sound that great.
- That great. - [Ken] That is probably
the best sounding space bar I've heard from a pre-built. - [Austin] Oh yeah, this
is on another level. You also have a number of switches here, which I've gotta say I'm more partial to the white and the green, I think. - [Ken] I am too, yeah. - This is a little bit
more of a Denki style. If I were to pick something.
- [Ken] Oh no, no. Denki colors are the ones that you want but I'll let you have your pick. - No, it's okay. Honestly, I feel like there's
a Denki video in this. I'm actually gonna seal this up unless you have a crack at it. So I've typed on this for a few minutes and there are a few big takeaways. For me personally, I'm a
big fan of this layout. Now of course because it's a 60% keyboard, you are missing some things, right? So you don't have a function row and the entire thing has been
shrunk down a little bit. So one of the specific things they've done is they've shrunk your right shift to incorporate the ability
of having full arrow keys. For me, totally fine, I'm a left shift boy. And having the arrow keys is something that I just can't not have, like I just need that
for any keyboard I use. As a fan of linear
switches, these feel great. And honestly, head and shoulders above pretty much any pre-built
keyboard that I've tried because most keyboards do
not have lubed switches. Most do not have great stabilizers and basically very few have any kind of real sound dampening on the inside. If Mountain's out here doing this and like Razer isn't, I'm just saying. - [Matt] What's that laptop
your using right there? - Oh, is that a Razer Blade 15, that we just did a This Is on? - [Ken] He did it. - [Matt] Wow.
- [Ken] He did the thing! - [Ken] Wow, he promoted, This Is. - [Matt] You can only see him slightly having an aneurysm right now. (laughing off camera) This is my Joker origin story is right this moment right now. - Hisense A7 high res audio. Is this a phone? - [Jared] This is an item I found. - A Jared exclusive item. All right, I'm more excited now. So let's see what we got. Is that a (beep) E Ink phone? Say psych. (laughing) Look how big this device is. This is an iPhone 13 Pro for context. - [Ken] This was 750 imported from eBay. - A lot of money, okay. I know that E Ink tablets have existed. An E Ink phone though is wild to me. Can someone please explain to me why you want an E Ink phone? - [Matt] 12 days of battery life. - 12 days? - [Matt] I don't know, I made that up. - [Austin] Wait, no, I
wanna use the camera. How good is the camera? - [Jared] Camera's pretty impressive. - Wow, it's got a built
in black and white mode, 'cause all black and white. - [Jared] So, I think the
pictures are actually in color. You just can't tell until
they're off the phone. - Jared, I was joking, I know it's in color. Okay, so let's take a photo. So the problem with this, do you know how many
shades of gray you have? - [Ken] 50? - [Matt] You sprinted
head on into that one. (laughing) - No way are you using
this is your main device. This might be a cool,
like secondary burn-- I mean secondary device. But I'm gonna guess this is running at about 10 frames per second. While it's fine for some people, would still be better if
you bought an E Ink tablet, because then you could actually draw on it and you have a little bit more to do. And plus you want the
biggest screen possible just because you want to be able to see, to read and everything thing like that. Oh boy. Did I come into with-- I went too far-- Hello my friends, and welcome to sponsor of
today's episode of Mystery Tech, the NIU scooter, N, I, U. The new NIU scooter. - [Ken] Oh yeah.
- There you go. - [Ken] Oh, it comes assembled. (bike bell ringing) - Jared, how fast can I go on the scooter? - [Jared] 17 and a half miles an hour. - You think I could run 17
and a half miles an hour? - [Matt] No.
- [Ken] Probably not, no. - [Matt] No, you cannot. - Five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
17 miles an hour there. So if you wanna get the maximum range you can put it in E-save mode, which gets you up to
about 10 miles an hour. But there's also a bunch of cool stuff that you actually do with the app. Not only can you see
your range and percentage but you also can change things like the actual regenerative breaking, which just like an electric car means that you actually don't have to use the friction brake all that often. Now the other thing that's nice about this, it has some serious range. It's about 40 kilometers
in the E-saver mode at like 10 miles an hour, which I mean I could get
to work with the scooter. So if you're ready to make life electric, definitely be sure to go check out the NIU scooter at the
link in the description. You can actually get
yourself $30 off right now. Of course, big shout out to NIU for sponsoring this
episode of Mystery Tech. (box falling) Well, okay, at least you
didn't knock over my coffee. Oh my God, that's your-- (laughing) That's not what I expected. That's so creepy, whoa. The first ever mobile phone
is now a real mobile phone. - [Ken] Ah, cute. - [Matt] Wait the eyes-- The eyes move. Whoa. - [Ken] Oh my God (indistinct). - USB-C. Yeah. We're living in the future. - [Ken] We actually bought
this pre-order at launch. But it's sold out immediately. - [Matt] Wait, is it actually rotary? - [Ken] It's actually
rotary, oh my God. Oh my god, it's dialing. I dialed a number. - [Matt Over Phone] Hello? - Oh my God. Matt, I'm talking to you on the telephone. - It sounds like (beep). - [Ken] So dial (beep). - Ken, don't touch my phone. (police sirens blaring) - Sylvania Optical Mouse
and VoIP USB phone. What the actual (beep) am I looking at? So the idea is this is a mouse, but then you open it up and then you can do a VoIP
call or Voice Over IP. Wait, where did you get this? - [Ken] It was a PO box. - Someone sent this from-- - [Ken] Someone sent this, yeah. - Oh my God. Dear Austin, Ken, Matt and everyone else. I've been watching a channel
for about a month now and I wanted to send something for you to either have fun with or more than likely
mock and make jokes at. This is the item that
I purchased at Goodwill for 5.99 that I intended
to play around with. Thanks for all your hard work
and making entertaining video. I look forward to your future content. Your fan, Eric. Eric, thank you very much. See, I have to deal with
Mystery Tech from these guys and they just try to make
fun of me all the time. This is legitimately awesome. - [Matt] My favorite
part about that letter is he says he's been
watching us for a month. He's got us figured out to a tee-- (laughing) In one month, he's got it down. - [Ken] Right now, you really look like the kid from Polar Express, like the know-it-all kid. - What? Know-it-all kid? - [Matt] I think you need your ticket. (laughing off camera) (indistinct) - So we got a USB-A end on
one side and then the mouse, which I will say is very heavy for a mouse which makes sense because
surprise, surprise, Bluetooth. I mean not Bluetooth, USB Skype phone. (cursed Windows sound blaring) - [Ken] What the hell? - Well that came outta the mouse, so it's probably a good sign. Oh, also let me hang on, let me just plug in my
headset to my mouse. There we go. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Mouse is mouseing. Oh my God. It sets up as a USB audio device. So unfortunately I don't
think the screen is gonna work without the Windows XP drivers. This my friends is an audio
test of the USB VoIP mouse. - [Recording Playing Back] This my friends is an audio test of the USB VoIP mouse. - [Matt] That speaker has to be blown. (recording playing over phone) (laughing) - [Austin] The fact that this thing is probably 20 years old, I just plugged it in
and immediately works. There's something behind that. Can we please have the next item? - [Recording Playing
Back] Can we please have the next item? Oh. Jared, that was like a solid 15 feet away. We have a very small item. This is, oh, the Sony Link Buds. These are actually some headphones I've been wanting to try for a while. So my everyday carry headphones are the Sony 1000XM4's featured on our previous
episode of Mystery Tech, and I honestly love
these headphones a lot. While comfort is not their strong suit, the sound is great, the fact that they easily
pair between lots of devices whether it's Android, iOS, Windows, Mac, whatever is terrific. Now the idea with the Link Buds is that these are along
that same kind of line, except for the fact that
they're really heavily focusing on comfort as well as giving you that oral experience that
you're really looking for. - [Ken] Aural, aural dude. Oral. - With these headphones, you
can hear your surroundings because they have a little
hole in them for your ears. - [Ken] So we looked at
Xperia Buds or something like that a couple of
years ago on Mystery Tech. They were kind of a similar idea but those didn't sound particularly good, but I hear that these
might be a little better. - You hear that they sound a little better? - Oh, that's tiny. This is a good start. I always look for smaller headphone cases so they fit in my pocket. And I'm gonna tell you with
resounding, absolutely. - [Ken] No, uh. - It's a little strange because there's no real like ear tips. Oh wow, that feels like there's
literal nothing in my ears. There is zero passive isolation, like I can hear absolutely
exactly the same. Immediately say, lack of bass, right? Which makes sense, considering
that you don't actually have like a sealed sort of chamber. It's kind of wild that I'm
listening to this volume at like actually maybe a little
louder than I normally would and I can have a completely
normal conversation with everyone in the room right now. Even with transparency mode, I still feel like that's
really difficult for me to do. Okay, so here's something else
that's unique about these. You're not supposed to
actually touch the earbuds, you're supposed to touch
around your ears or something, I'm not entirely sure how that works. Oh! - [Ken] Does it work? Does it work? - Yo that's wild. So I'm actually not touching the earbuds, I'm touching like my ear. On. Off. - [Ken] Austin. - Yo, it works. (laughing) (light smack) Double tap. Paused. (laughing) I like these headphones a lot. My only question here is
the long term comfortability after using them for a few hours. I think these might be my headphones. - [Ken] So what you're saying is, I'm buying a personal pair. - Yeah, what I'm saying is
you don't get to steal these, these are mine now. - [Ken] Great.