- It has been two years
since the first episode of Broke vs Pro. So today Ken and I are
taking it old school with a simple challenge. We're each going to
build a gaming PC setup and the one who does the
best in price to performance, in creativity and in raw gaming skills, will be crowned the BROKE vs PRO champion. Today's video is in this box. - Oh my, that's not a
box, that's a crate dude. - I think this is probably going to be the most beautiful part of my entire setup, which I actually have no
idea how to open this. (laughing) I think you were
supposed to use a crowbar, not a hammer for this. - Well, we don't have a crowbar. So this is the next best thing. (hammer banging) - What are you doing? Oh my goodness. That is ridiculous. Look at that. - This is quite the curve.
It's very aggressive. - Wait, is there a space for my setup? - Nope. - Can we split the monitor? - Nope. - Like you have this half
and I have this half. - Nope, real estate isn't free, sorry. - So, my plan is simple. I want to build the
cheapest gaming PC I can. And then with the money I save, I'm going to try to make it
look vaguely presentable. But most of all, win the
price to performance, and if I can spend 300 bucks, 250 bucks, something like that, I'll be feeling good. Probably the more difficult
thing for me to find is going to be a graphics card. So let me start with that. Okay, so 750 bucks for 3060 gonna be slightly outside
of my price range. Wow a 4870 for $170. Okay. That's bad. That's 42 3060, all right. Well, if you're wondering where
the GPU shortage came from, it's this guy, let me
get it out your hand. Let me stop looking for game PCs. Let me just look for office
or just computer, you know, desktop computer Athlon
X2 and two gigs of Ram. I can't go too low end. I need
to be able to run Valorant. Wait, what's the minimum
spec for Valorant? It is a core i3-370M and HD 3000 graphics. Oh, oh, okay, actually that's fine. That's gonna belay, basically
anything I look for. So this is something that
actually has potential. $200, okay. It is a HP computer with a
core i5-2500, which is old, but still it's a quad core chip. There's still performance there. 16 gigs of Ram and
importantly, a GTX 1050. And it comes with a Samsung monitor. I'm gonna text the dude. It's still available, all right. Do you think we can go out,
like pick it up right now? - Let's do it. - So we should be in
pretty good shape here. I think if I'm actually
able to get this PC and the dude's actually there, this will give me a huge advantage in the price to performance category. Now I'm gonna have to do something to actually get this thing to look nice and actually try to get some
kind of creativity out of it. But I mean, other than
that, I think it's a lay up. I think you're in trouble my friends. - A lay up, you've been
watching basketball. - Yeah (laughing) - You've not watch basketball. - So, we've got ourselves the
beginning of my broke set up. And by the beginning, I
mean, I'm pretty much done. So inside the system, we actually have some
pretty decent components. So not only do we have a low profile 1050, which actually might
be good, slight problem if I try to move this out of the case. I only have the regular hard drive, which I can pull out pretty easily. And the power supply is 240 Watts. So not incredibly powerful, but I think it will do the job. With my broke rig coming together nicely. Now it's time for Ken to start work on his overkill pro setup. All right, so now we are
at Micro Center and Jared, I need computer parts. - Well luckily you're at a Micro Center. - Yeah, fortunately for me. - We have plenty of computer parts for you - Look at this Ken, you're getting the white
glove treatment right now. - I know. - How Broke vs Pro are we getting today? - So I do need to account for a price to performance scenario here and I think Austin - You already know my
bill. You've seen my bill. You know, I spent $160
on my system so far. - I think like Ryzen 7, - We're on the 5800X? - 5800 X is probably where I should land. - There you are. - Thank you. Thank you. Oh, wait, whoa, wait, what? (group laughing) - You don't see them in the
wild very often, do you? You will lose with the 6900 XT. - Yes, I would. I'm gonna pass on that.
That is a great deal. Look at this B550 Aorus Pro. - Yo with WiFi - For 117. - Look at you. - Wow! - I thought you're a pro, you actually care about saving money. You should buy full price version
to show that you're a pro, and to give me an advantage. I mean to show that you're a pro. - Hey you guess what
Ken, while you do that, I'm going to go get the only thing I need. Oh, look, a 21.99 SSD. Don't mind if I do. I'm done. - So we're going to use
this CPU cooler, the U12S. - Look at that you have a cart now too. - Your trusty steed. Thank you. I need to grab LL120s. Oh, whoa. (group laughing) Can I buy them all? - No, no, no! All right, let's go. Come on, come on, it's broke vs pro, not broke vs slow. - I need an affordable set of RAM. If we can get the 16 gig, 3200 megahertz. - 32, wow that doesn't sound very pro. That sounds pretty broke to me. - Ken, I'm hearing a lot
of trash talk from Austin, but you're not really
throwing anything back. I don't think that's what a pro would do. - Yeah! Ken, you're not feeling too
confident over here anymore, are ya? - I never think that I'm gonna win, but it always just happens. (Austin laughs) So we'll just go under that assumption. - So it's clear that Ken is
feeling pretty confident, but I don't think he realizes what he's getting himself into. Hello and welcome to
broke vs pro the episode where Austin crushes Ken with
his excellent value system. Thankfully, he actually did give me a super high quality keyboard (keyboard clattering)  and a very clean small mouse, which I will have to use. Supposedly the monitor works. I assume it's probably
going to be like 720p, that would be my guess. I have a lot of USB ports though. That's good and I have a DVD player. So can you watch DVDs? I can watch Netflix? - Okay, so very happy to report. We are up and running. Now, I'm pretty sure that
this display is 1366 by 768. It actually doesn't
look bad though, right? This looks totally fine. I wouldn't realize that
this thing is 12 years old. I probably am not going to
get a lot of creativity points with Matt judge. With buying a system off Craigslist and calling it a day. So what can I do with this? That's going to actually
give me some points. I need to modify the chassis
that it's in right now. How can I do that? So not too long ago, we did a video, buying a bunch of tech from pawn shops. And as part of that video,
I painted a 2DS red. I'm gonna now use the exact same paint that has already been paid
for to paint this system red. (spray can rattling) Time for some painting action doesn't that fill you with confidence. I have done no cleaning, sanding, priming. This is paint and primer. So I'm just gonna assume
that it just works. Oh God. That is not going to show up. It's so dark. Ooh! - That's not a - That's not great, but I'm
going to do a couple coats. So we'll just use that as base
don't mind is a little thick and sticky here. That'll be fine. Look, I'm going for an artistic look. I'm not going just for a red PC. 'Cause it's that really
exciting? I don't think so. I'm going for my own
artistic interpretation of what a gaming PC should look like. I'm gonna challenge you to
reinvent your own thoughts on how the aesthetics of a
gaming PC are supposed to work. Enjoy my artistic vision. Matt, you gotta admit right
now you're looking at this and you're struggling not
to share how many points you're going to give me
for my artistic vision. - There's some trees
falling on your painting. - I like to incorporate
nature in my artistic vision. Hey, this looks great. I don't think I need to do anything else. I think I'm done. - Or I can. Ooh! Hey, hey, whoa, whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Did you just paint on my side panel? - It's a smiley face. - You know what, I vibe
with that artistic vision. - Oh, thank you. But no more, that's enough artistic vision. - The hell is this, innovative
tempered glass gaming case. Are you just building an
Illuminati thing right now? - I'm building a pyramid. It's a PC pyramid. And here are all my parts. - You got to fill me in
on why there's an RTX 3070 in your parts list. I didn't see an RTX 3070
when you left Micro Center. Where'd that come from? - The office. - All right and how much
are you supposedly spending on your RTX 3070? - How much are they going for on eBay? - $3,000. - Hell no, they're not. - I'll be generous. (upbeat music) And say 900. - What! That's all for 3070! - Oh my God. Oh my God. (Austin laughs) - It's a whole frame, whoa. All right. I did not expect that to actually be the whole interior. - Austin - Competition aside that's
actually really cool. - It is. This might be one of the
coolest PC cases I've ever used. - I don't think this is
going to be an easy build, but it will certainly be one
of the more interesting ones. (upbeat music) And so my setup is finally complete. We have the huge centerpiece
here, my monitor, and of course next to it
is my completed PC build with the Ryzen 7 5800X. - Tell me about your PC. - It's our judge, Matt Ansini. - So what, why, why? - Why not? - That's fair, that is fair. - I agree. Why is a great question. - Here's the thing. Here's the thing like when
we're talking about PC builds, what does a PC look like? I mean, I'm going to walk over here. Let me just, not that, I'm
going to walk over here. You see all these PCs, what do they all have in common? - They look functional. - Yeah. - They're rectangles. - This seems just wildly impractical. It looks cool. - It's very impressive. - It definitely looks cool. But like. - I like to put stuff on my PC. - I in all my eloquent
language have determined that it is time for me to
share my creation with you and with you dear judge. So this is the Austin
gaming budget special. Okay. So we can take it old school. - The first thing I'm
going to notice about this, is this is probably the
best thing that you've made. - Wait, no, I don't think
that's a compliment. - It is. But when your bar is down here. - I have done some TLC. So I have not only re-pasted did the CPU, taken the entire thing apart
and cleaned it and dusted it. I've also upgraded with a modern SSD for the low, low price of $22. Which brings the grand total, including my led black
lights strip on the bottom of this entire setup, the system, the graphics card, SSD,
lighting, my mouse, keyboard and the monitor of $192. Yes, yes. Ah, amazement and shock $192. And unlike Ken who's cheating
and using this table, I didn't steal anything from the office. This is literally what
the monitor came in. I'm reusing the garbage
to continue my up-cycling - Do we have the shipping manifests? - How much does it cost to
actually ship with lumber prices? This literally was going
straight to the dumpster and I took it. So in the most appropriate
name for a test ever, we're going to do price to performance with the 3DMark Time Spy. - So this is a pretty
comprehensive benchmark to show not only your
graphics performance, your gaming performance, also your CPU. Generally speaking, this
is a good sort of stand in for a lot of modern DirectX 12 titles. So if you do well in Time Spy, you're probably going to
do well in most games. - So for this what we're going to do is we'll take the benchmark score and divide that by the cost of the system. So yes, Ken is going to
beat the benchmark score, but his score is going to be a much lower price to
performance than $190 in theory. - Oh, I got my score. - What is it? All right,
what is your score? - 13,536. - Oh, that's bad. - No, it's not bad. It's great. - No, that's bad for me. I didn't think he'd give you that high. All right, well mine just finishing up. I think I'll be okay. - I think you need to get at least 1,500. - 1,925. - 1,925 okay. - Oh, okay. - So, I'm well, within 10% of your score. Now, I guess, are we gonna find out later when. - We'll hold it judging for the end, let's not call it right now. - Welcome to the real
challenge of Broke vs Pro, which is a point which
I'm going to destroy Ken with inferior gear. Ken, are
you ready to be destroyed? - I'm ready for stuff. I don't
know about being destroyed. - That sounds really sus,
look you ready for stuff. - All I need is to beat you, while watching a Linus Tech Tips video. - You're watching Linus
Tech Tips right now. - Yeah, while playing Valorant. - Are you using your PC as a mousepad? - I am. I am. Because the mouse kept getting stuck on all the rough wood here. So this is the smoothest surface I have. My freshly painted surface. - Can we do the aesthetic
portion of this bill after? - I've made notes. I've
made notes, don't worry. - Okay, okay, thanks judge. I trust you. - Ooh, look at this. Look at this 130 FPS. - Wow. - 130! - 360 FPS. That's okay, I've got a 60 Hertz display
to really show me. Oh God. Wow! - I have all 240 Hertz. - Hey yo, for real, can I have a little bit of practice time? 'Cause this mouse is very bad and I have not gotten used to it at all. Okay, okay. (gunshots) There we go. - Wow. - One for Mr. Austin that is. - Ooh, ooh oh, wow. I definitely want him
to have that one, oops. - Ken, how you doing over there? Leaderboard. - I am right now four and five. - I am 12 something. - 12 what? - 12 and 6. Oh, okay that's bad. That's not great for me. - I have not killed Austin yet. - I actually seen you at all. Ah, no, no! - Oh, that's Austin. Wow. - You shot me in the back, you coward. - Like that. Okay, that. - Oh, that was just Austin. - Yeah, I saw you have with sniper, I should have just stepped
away. It went too slow. - What? Oh, the message. Oh, I got the last kill. I mean, I didn't win. - That wasn't the last kill then. So I killed Austin a total
of like three or four times, I think, which doesn't hugely matter, but I got 33 and 19. - Two out of three? - No. What you talking about. You said one round. I mean you could do more and I don't think it's
going to help you, but. - I think we should do one more. I mean two more 'cause I'm
gonna win the next two. - I don't think you will,
but if you want to, I mean. - It's been a long, hard fought battle, this episode of Broke vs Pro. But at the end it always comes down to the opinion of our fine handsome and well-established judge Matthew Ansini. Matt, please tell us
how I won Broke vs Pro. - Okay, so obviously Ken
whooped your butt in Valorant that's pretty common. Obviously the point goes to him there. Let's talk about price to performance. Your system costs $192 and you got a benchmark of 1,925, which means your price or
performance score is at 10.4. - 10.4. That's above 10. That's a double digit
number more than my FPS. So I'll take it. - So Ken spent $2,320 on his system and he got a score of 13,536, which means your price to
performance score was a five, 5.8. - Whew. So I could have
spent twice as much. I could've actually afforded a mouse pad and I still would've won. - You could've afforded a
gamer to play the game for you. - So here we go to a aesthetic. - Is that really what it comes down to it? - This is the first time, I think it's ever come down to aesthetic. I can't believe I'm gonna say this. - No, yes. - So obviously Ken's looks better. - Yeah. - Wait. - But. - It's happening, it's happening. - I have to admit that
yours doesn't look that bad because normally when you build something, it looks horrible. I'm giving this one to Austin. - Yes Broke vs Pro Champion of the world, Austin Evans in the house. - I (Austin grunting) - Creativity and artistic
vision wins the day. Thank you very much for
watching this episode of Broke vs Pro. I'm going to celebrate
with my glorious gaming PC and above all remember who is
the winner Broke vs Pro today? - Not you anymore because
after that gloating, act like you've been there before. I'm giving this one to Ken now.