- Today we are running
Windows 10 on things you should not run Windows
10 on, including old systems, phones, Macs, iPads, so
cast your mind wide open to the most obscure, bizarre
thing you could possibly imagine running Windows,
and we're gonna do it today. Why'd I just jump on the desk? I'm not sure, but it felt right. Microsoft just released Windows 365, which allows you to run your
own dedicated Windows 10 PC in the cloud on literally
anything that has a web browser, so let's put that to the test. I started out by signing
up for the higher tier at a pretty expensive $66 a month, which comes with four CPU cores, 16 gigs of RAM, and 128 gigs of storage, although realistically,
you can get up and running for close to $20 a month
for a lower-spec machine. To start out with, the first
device that I would love to run Windows 10 on is the iPad. For the best results, Microsoft recommends using the Remote Desktop client. Now, this is something that you could use with your own PC, right? If you have, I believe, Windows 10 Pro, pretty much any PC can
log in, and you can use it on a Mac or whatever, but
what we can use it for is accessing our Windows
365 app in the cloud. So the advantage to using
the Remote Desktop client, first of all, as you can see,
it's actually properly scaled. You also have pretty much full support for everything on the iPad. So I can use the touchscreen
on Windows, right. The cursor is pretty damn smooth. (Austin gasping) The camera works! What? Are you kidding me? Wait, wait, wait, you gotta see this. I mean, there's mad latency, of course. (host whooshes) Okay, okay, okay, sorry, sorry,
I was not expecting that. So I think we're gonna
try a bunch a devices, but the gist of it, I
think, is if you have a regular desktop web browser,
it will work fairly well, but if you can get access
to the Remote Desktop app, you're gonna have a much better experience accessing your Windows 365 device. (suspenseful music) So I have installed the Remote
Desktop app on my Z Flip. So let's just see what
happens when I launch it. Configuring, and oh, my God, it works! Not only does it work,
it just changed over to the Z Flip's aspect ratio. Oh, wow! Yo, whoa, whoa, yo, whoa. Wait, this is actually not terrible. Anywhere you place it on the screen, it just moves the cursor. It just doesn't stop! No matter what device I throw at it, it's just like, "Yeah, sure, no problem." Oh, my God! Oh, my God! This is so dumb. This is so dumb, but look
at my Windows Z Flip, boys! Come on! Come on. This is a video which is pure fun, pure delight, pure entertainment. What can we try next? (title smacking)
So we've got a Core i7. I believe that's a first
or second-gen Core i7. Four gigs of RAM, HD 3000 graphics. I mean, this is not anything
all that impressive. Now, I specifically picked this because it is too old to
use at least the version on the App Store that
we would normally use of the Remote Desktop software, so I'm gonna try to just load up in Safari Windows365.com and see if it works. Now, I'm gonna do this on Wi-Fi. This MacBook does have ethernet. That would probably slightly
improve our performance, but I wanna try to keep
it somewhat realistic. All right, let's see what kinda speeds that the Microsoft server
has on the other end. - [Kenneth] There are
servers in Washington. - [Austin] It is. All
right, ready, and- (laughs) - [Kenneth] We could stream off that. - Yeah, you think, you think, you think. Wait, wait, wait, let's see the upload. Let's see the upload.
Come on, come on, come on. Hit me. Hit me!
(hands clapping) We got that big, that big, oh, eh, oh! Oh, it's going.
- Oh, wow! - It's going. It's going.
- Oh, my God! - It's going! It's going! Let's (gasps) go, boys! Yo, 1,400 megabits, 1.4 gigabits
down, and 2.7 gigabits up. I can use that crazy-fast upload to dump files to it and pull
it down on my local device. Right, obviously, to get
something on this device itself, I need a good internet connection, but if I'm saving stuff to the cloud, I've got almost three
gigabits upload. Whoo! Whoo, whoo, whoo, whoo, whoo!
(hands clapping) This actually works really well. Again, this is an old version of Safari. We're several generations behind, and I would say the
performance and the actual, like, look, I've got two
fingers scrolling here. Look how, like, that's maybe
a third of a second latency. I figured that the Remote Desktop app on something like the
iPad or even on the Z Flip would be the best scenario, but
I mean, that's super-smooth. What, what's that? Why'd you bring a Chromebook?
(computer clattering) If it works on an old 2011 MacBook with an out-of-date version of Safari, it's gonna work on a Chromebook! - [Kenneth] We can make
it a real computer! - Chrome OS is a real thing! - [Kenneth] No, it's not! - It is absolutely a thing. - [Kenneth] Stop tricking our audience into thinking that
these things are useful. (air whooshing) - So I have got
(title smacking) this old ThinkPad, which is
legitimately had been sitting around for, oh, God, ah,
(flutters lips) three years? This is a Core 2 Duo system, and I got it because I originally wanted to do a video because this is one of the oldest systems that I could buy that
would support Windows 10. So for context, this is a
system with a Core 2 Duo T9400. We've got ourselves four gigs of RAM, and we've got ourselves a 112 gig- I think it's a hard drive, actually. I don't even think there's an SSD in here. Should we just fire it up in
Edge and see what happens? Now, I will say that this
has got the old version of Edge because I have
not touched this system in, like, several years.
- Oh, so not Chrome? - So non-Chromium Edge, but
hey, we're gonna try old stuff. Let's try old stuff, shall we? Activate, and look at that! We're back in there! I will say the quality
looks significantly worse. Like, you could just see it's kind blurry. Okay, that's a lot worse, so
maybe we're hitting the limits for what this Core 2 Duo can handle. So that's about the
smallest window we can get. Is this gonna work better? Oh, it is, actually. - [Kenneth] Yeah, 'cause it's a lesser resolution video, right?
- Yeah! - So...
- Interesting! Okay, so you can get this usable even on, I would say, ridiculously
outdated hardware. I think we've pretty well established that the Windows 365
and the Remote Desktop, it's pretty good. It works on a lotta
devices, but I don't think we can just go old with it. I don't think we can
just go outdated with it. I think we should take a
little look over at truly the most budget, bargain
basement, low-end hardware we can. No, not the RTX 3090. This, the Raspberry Pi Zero. This is a computer which
costs, what, five, 10 bucks? Single core, literally
the lowest spec possible. It qualifies as a
computer, but not by much. - [Kenneth] I mean, this
is a project kinda system, not really for anything
else, but I'd be impressed if it can at least run it. To be fair, Matt and I put
bets on how long it'll take for you to load this, and
we both bet against you. - I don't think this is gonna work. I think it will not be usable. I think it's gonna probably, whoa, okay. - [Kenneth] I'm gonna
leave the camera there 'cause I'm tired of holding it. You can-
- So it's just gonna be a montage now of Austin waiting for Raspberry Pi Zero to load a webpage for the next 15 minutes.
- Yes. - So, all right,
(computer clattering) we've already given up. We're just switching to the 400. - Okay.
- Look at that. Look how much better this is. Oh, my gosh! Okay, so immediately, we'll
say it feels pretty blurry. So let's full screen it.
- That image compression. It's hard to get that on camera, but it's not particularly good. - It definitely looks like
I'm watching a 720p video of a Windows system. - [Kenneth] But to be
fair, we are also looking at this on, like, a 48-inch TV. - Yeah, there might be a scenario in which, if you have some kind of native Remote Desktop
app, it runs better, but even on what is a relatively
powerful Raspberry Pi, at least in Pi terms, the 400, this is not a good experience, at least
running in the browser. It's just, it's so laggy. We'll be right back after this word from our fine sponsors over at Saint Jude! Actually, I'm just making that up. Saint Jude aren't sponsoring this video. However, my good friend, Myke Hurley, my cohost of the "Test Drivers" podcast, is doing an amazing podcastathon to support the Saint
Jude Children's Hospital. Now, this is a cause that I
seriously love and support. Saint Jude does a lot of amazing work, and for this next month, they're raising as much money as they can
to help support Saint Jude, so I of course will be donating myself, and if you would like to help support not only Myke and the whole relay crew for their giant podcastathon,
but you also can help support Saint Jude by checking out
the link in the description. (title smacking)
(upbeat music) So this is a vehicle that happens to have a web browser in the center display, so what I have done is I have tethered this particular vehicle to my Z Flip, so we are on 5G, and I've
loaded up Windows 365. Now, I've not pressed the
open browser button yet, so let's just see what happens. Uh-oh, oh, no, "This client
isn't officially supported on your browser device," but
it said you can use it anyway. Ooh! 'Cause I didn't know
what kinda browser this is. It's probably some Chromium thing. "The client might not work
the way it's designed to." Oh, yes, yes, activate all the things, yes, all my resources. Jailbreak my car. Go for it. - [Kenneth] It can't open the remote port. (Austin groaning and laughing) Yeah. Okay. Okay.
- It's not, it's not doing it. All right, I think that's a fail. I think we found the first device that does not support Windows
10, which is a whole vehicle. - Well. (whimsical music) Oh, yeah. (Austin laughing) So, this is the Scion iQ
from the "Building a PC in a Car" video, except
the PC isn't here anymore. Instead, we have an Xbox Series X. We have an insider
version of Microsoft Edge, which should, in theory,
let us run Windows 365. We are finally doing the thing that Microsoft should've
done in the first place. - Windows on an Xbox! - Windows on an Xbox. This is something that
we've wanted, all of us here in the office, for a long time. We're never gonna get it, but this is gonna be the next best thing, right? Oh, my God, it's working right here. - [Austin] Ooh, Windows! - So this, in theory, should work. We haven't tried this
wireless keyboard mouse at oh, wow!
- Works flawless! We go, we go full screen on it? Oh, my God, we did it! (laughs) Yo! Dude, this is great. Wait, wait, actually open
up a video or something. Wait, wait, wait, the Scion video! - Wait, wait, wait. (laughs)
- The Scion video! - [Kenneth] That is a little
too on the nose. (laughs) We're not logged in to
YouTube, by the way. This is-
- No, it, it just, we just happened to be served the video of us building the car. We are quite literally- - [Kenneth] Oh, that's literally in here. - In the world's fastest gaming PC! This is a win. This is absolutely 100% a win.
- Yeah! I mean, shout-out to Xbox
for putting Microsoft Edge, full Microsoft Edge on
there with Chromium. Makes a lotta things
possible, including this, though I guess my question
is can we do xCloud? - No, you can't do xCloud.
(Kenneth laughing) - [Kenneth] Are you going to- (laughs) - Okay, so hang on, so
let me just be clear, right now, we're gonna run
xCloud via the Windows system in the cloud, so basically,
we're double-clouding over 5G into an Xbox in the back of a car. - Yes.
- We're clouding on cloud. Oh, did you get it? (gasps) (Matt laughing)
- No! Oh, my God.
- Yo! - I hear, oh!
- Yo! It's, wait!
(logo whooshing) (everyone laughing) - [Kenneth] (laughing) That is awful. I mean, that is about
four frames per second. (Matt laughing) - [Austin] Wait, we're updating Destiny! No wonder it's running bad. - [Kenneth] Oh, yeah, oh,
yeah, let's turn that off. (laughing) Wait. Wow, we have good 5G here. Damn. - Look at that! Oh, okay, so our performance
was just down to the fact that we were downloading Destiny over 5G. If only we could actually just
play Xbox games on an Xbox. I like how we're going
through all this trouble when we have an Xbox we
could just play games on. - [Kenneth] Well, this is
not the intended use case. - No, I don't think any of
this is an intended use case. I don't think they ever
imagined that someone would be this stupid to
be able to go this far to push technology
beyond its outer limits, to explore new horizons, to experience the wonder of poor decision-making. Thank you very much for watching. Please be sure to subscribe to the channel for other hijinks and
shenanigans like this, and until next time, we're
going to go six layers deep in the cloud until we
can't find a way out. (adventurous music)