- Hello, welcome my friends to the ZEEQ Smart Pillow. Is this a mysterious piece of technology? Well, yes. Yes it is. Why do I need to stop
snoring, stream music, and sleep analysis myself. Wait. Sleep? Actually that's cool. Wow, there's a lot here. Buckle up, friends. We're going to the sleep zone where it's nap time. So we have a removable pillowcase and we have the pillowy bits. Then we have eight
precision-placed wireless speakers. Okay. - It works with Alexa. You can tell your Alexa,
"Hey, go the (beep) to sleep." All right. Let's take, wait. Why is this already open? Has someone used my ZEEQ already? Has someone slept on my pillow? - [Ken] Probably the Amazon worker cause I didn't open it. - [Matt] Wait, didn't you open it? - No, no, no, I absolutely did not. - [Matt] Are you sure? - That car alarm is my alibi. - [Matt] Josh? - [Josh] No. - [Matt] Josh. - [Josh] The knife's right
here. I did not open it. - [Ken] No, you really didn't open it? - [Josh] I didn't open it. - That's a pillow, wow. Initially I have some concerns, there are hairs all over this pillow. Can we get a little - [Ken] Oh God. - zoom in action? Hair. Hair. Hair. Hair, hair. Hair, hair. - [Ken] Yeah, It's under the plastic. - Oh yeah, that's definitely under the... Okay. - [Matt] I would not, yeah.
I wouldn't recommend that. (sniffs) - [Matt] Stop sniffing things! - I mean, this 100% is a used pillow. - [Ken] Is this pillow
even comfortable with that? - It's actually pretty soft. - Oh wow! Okay. - Oh, it started. I'm asleep. All right. Good night, everyone. This is hard. See you in the morning, okay. Take my glasses off actually. All right, hang on. Let's do the snore alarm. All right, everyone ready? (lullaby playing) (imitating snoring sounds) - So far, nothing has happened whatsoever. I have - [Ken] It's too smart.
It knows you're faking! - It's not vibrating. It's not giving me songs because my playlist is not long enough. It's just a pillow and an app that I have given all my data to. - [Matt] Next is his video. I sold my body on a pillow. - That's already a thing, Matthew. All right. You know what this video needs right now. This video needs some tech, some mysterious tech. All right. This is the (laughs) Oh yeah. That. All right. What do we have here? Oh, gyroscope. Okay. So I'm familiar with
the concept of a gyroscope. All right. So I assume that I throw this through the shaft. - [Ken] By the way, for all of this like deep
knowledge that we've learned today through this piece of paper that came with this very brilliant toy - Very brilliant. - [Ken] It only cost $21. - $21 for a gyroscope? That sounds like what a
gyroscope should cost actually. That sounds very reasonable. All right. Ready? I don't think I did it. Okay, here we go. We're gonna try it again. - [Ken] You know what will be great? If you actually use the principles of physics to actually use the toy. - Y'all want to help? - [Ken] Yes. - Come over here. Give it a try. Show me how you do it. Mr. I'm-a-physics-genius. Mr.
I-went-to-college-and-got-an-Arts-degree. - I mean, I only have one brain cell. - And you're working really hard. - I know. - You have to constantly listen to your weeb music over and over again. Your brain cells constantly be like "Repeat! Repeat! Repeat!" - Do you want to hear what
I'm listening to right now? - No, I don't. Silence? - Exactly. It's not on. - Is this is a fashion statement? You just can't hear us
'cause we're so poor? - Yes, exactly. Now that I put it in the hole, we spin the gyroscope. Oh, that's getting some speed. Let's go. - All right. Show me the sickest of tricks. Woooo! Yo! Is this what magic looks like? Oh oh, oh no. Oh, we're about to drop. - [Matt] Are we? - It's moving an awful lot. - [Matt] Or is this physics? - Oh, we're about to go down. Wait. Ah, that was very anti-climactic. - Okay. So now that I know how to do this, - Okay, go ahead. - I'm going to let it rip faster. Let's try. Let's try like one of these. Let's try like one of these. All right, let's move on. Let's move on. We have other items. (sighs) - I wanna play. I wanna play with the gyroscope. I know you're not going
to use the camera anyway. Here, take this. You can go back over there. You can play with your toys and we'll make the Mystery Tech. This episode of Mystery Tech is sponsored by the ASUS Zenbook Duo 14. Not only do you get the ScreenPad Plus a legitimately super useful
secondary display here but you get it without
sacrificing size or performance. Now is this a 14-inch laptop which is relatively thin, but importantly you still have tons of performance in airflow. Thanks to the fact that it has
not only the ErgoLift hinge but also the ScreenPad angles toward you which makes it useful to use. And importantly, you
still have tons of airflow for the 28-watt Core i5 or Core i7 processors inside. Because they're 11th gen you have tons of performance here. All this cooling is
important because not only do you have that 11th
Gen Core i7 processor. But on top of that, you have optional dedicated graphics from
Nvidia, specifically the MX450. And on top of that, and
you also have options to go all the way up to 32 GBs
of RAM or 1 terabyte SSD. And you can even upgrade that with a second SSD, if you want. And you also have tons of screen display. The main display is a 14-inch panel. And of course while both
displays are touchscreen, what's nice is it also comes with the stylus bundled
in the box for free. So if you want to up
your productivity game definitely be sure to check
out the ASUS Zenbook Duo 14 at the link in the description and huge shoutout to ASUS for sponsoring this episode of Mystery Tech. I am five seconds away from jumping on the table. - [Ken] On the what? - I'm about to jump on
the table if you don't - [Ken] Are you gonna jump on the table? - I will jump on the table. You want me to jump on the table? That it's time for the next item on Mystery Tech. Oh wait, wait, wait,
look at, look and see. (laughs) It landed on me. What do I do now? Got you a pack of authentic cards. I have to get it down now. What do we do? There we go. I got it. - [Ken] And they just devalued. All right, so these are the Yu-Gi-Oh card legendary decks. Hey, what are we getting the box? We get a Yuki Exodia deck,
a Kiko Blue Eyes deck and a Joey Red Eyes deck. Okay. Remember the Remember the (beep) who threw away Exodia on the ship? The little like weevil. Weevil. What up? Inside we have straight up decks. All right. - [Matt] That's not clear by then. And we have a couple extra cards. Is it time to do the duel! - [Matt] I will send
you to the shadow realm! I kind of forgot how to play Yu-Gi-Oh. - [Matt] It's not that hard. - Okay. - [Ken] Attack mode, Defense mode. - Oh yeah. Yeah, okay. - I'm going to summon my Protector with Eyes of Blue which then lets me special summon another light character right there. - You didn't shuffle your cards, did you? - I did. And I get to special summon the Blue Eyes. - That seems wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait No, no, no, no, no. Hold on. And then I'll attack your -- - Magic Cylinder trap card. - All right, so I'm down to 1500. - All right, wait. You know what Magic Cylinder does? - Yes, I play this game. - Okay, okay. Fine, fine. - Oh, wait now. Okay. So I'm just flexing my Exodia leg. Let's continue with Mystery Tech. - Okay. If you're being, if we're being real though, you have to put your hand
on the deck to concede. No. Nope, no, no. You put your hand over the deck. Woo! Yeah! - I always hated Kiba. - Do you remember in the first, like was it the first episode? Second episode? - Sure. - Remember, remember with the Blue Eyes White Dragon? ' Cause there were four of them - And like he ripped one - And Kiba was like that.
(rips card) - Whoa! - That's what he did. - All right, gentlemen. I think it's time for a little break. Let's take a pause on Mystery Tech. - Oh yeah, good point. Okay, next item please! Is this the grand pappy of my Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5G? I think it is. This my friends is the
Samsung Galaxy Folder 2. Now you might be thinking about the flips and the
foldy boys in your life. However, this one is a
little bit more special because this is a true folding device. On the pinnacle, the cutting edge. Some might say a folding technology. And that is because this Samsung smart-- - [Ken] The left side of
face is drooping, by the way. - I'm not gonna retake that one at all. This is a flippy boy. This is a full-on Android smartphone that happens to fold but still give you the T9
comfort that you all crave and deserve, honestly. - I don't at all. - I will say this is hilarious. Let me just sort of, for context - [Ken] It's actually really big. - So Z Flip, iPhone 12 mini, Folder. Big chunk is 9,000,
it's in the wrong side. People can't see it. Here we go. So we're now Galaxy Folder-ing. Okay. Well let me go to the internet. Yeah, this T9 is, I don't
understand how to T9. Look, this was clearly a different time, before the glory of the Z Flip gray star presence. And instead you have a
flip phone that is also an Android phone and it is not
particularly good at either. It is annoying to use as an Android phone. It has a camera and a removable back and it looks cool in red but it is so massive
that it's like, come on. What are you doing? Like, come on. Does this, who, look, my,
my face is too far away from the microphone. Oh, okay. A device I actually know. These are the Status Between Pros. I knew the name of that. - [Ken] Oh, those are
pretty nice actually. - I've liked a lot of Status headphones. Although I will be honest the last pair of Statuses
has died really dallied were the CB-1s, which I
kept in my bag for years until they finally snapped. All right. So these are the head-- Wow. That. That's a look. Okay. - [Ken] You know what that looks like? Those look like Samsung
T5 SSDs on your ear. (laughs) - One of the important
tests, everyone knows. Pair of earbuds has to be able to fit in your mini pocket. Yeah, but that's lumpy. - Okay, wait. I will say they have really
good passive noise cancellation. Like this is a really solid seal. - Okay, but I can't hear
what you're saying, so. 12 hours of battery life and the buds. - [Ken] Wait, 12 hours continuous? - 12 hours in the buds and another 36 hours in the case. - [Ken] 12 hours is a lot. - Now that we know that that's
a little more justified. - Okay. Let's listen to some tracks. Shall we? Whoa! These sound really good. They get really loud too. This is louder than I
would listen to them. And they're half volume right now. Very bassy though, it's a very warm sound. They're really good hip-hop headphones. All right. Time for the Hotel California test. These are good. These are really good. These are a very different kind of earbud. It doesn't have all
the features that a lot of other ear buds have. Right? But what they do is they
give you really good sounds. Right? I will put this above-- At least in sound quality,
above pretty much any Bluetooth in-ear headphone I've ever listened to. Right? Which is saying something now it might not be the most
important thing to you, right? If you care more about
having a small case that fits in your little pocket, you care more about having like sort of
something that you can easily pull in and out. And that has like slightly
more tactile or less tactile but more usable controls versus with the little pinchy dude on this. Fine. That's okay. I might start rocking these. I really might. - [Ken] Really? - These are really good. Imagine that an episode of Mystery Tech where we tell you something
is good and not trash, like always. Is that a Hey You, Pikachu Nintendo 64? Oh wait. It's Japanese? - [Ken] Yes. - Yo. - This looks legit. So the Hey You, Pikachu edition has what was probably not the most useful features, but it
made it look really cool. This is the size of a normal N64. They made it this wide so that you have your little Pikachu foot. I mean-- Little Pikachu foot. I never had one of these. - Smells fresh. - Smell it, Matt. Smell that. You know you want to smell that. Take a good whiff of Pikachu. Pretty good right? Well, sorry to hear this-- - I think that used to be white. I do think this was a white
Pokeball at one point. - [Ken] Okay. But the cool
thing here, the cool thing here because I'm sure you know about Japanese market and
64s versus American ones. You can't exactly play American ones on the Japanese console. This one in particular has
a slight conversion to it where you can do both. - So it's a modded N64. Do we have any N64 games? - [Ken] We do. - [Matt] Yes. - [Ken] One second. - [Matt] We do. Yeah. - Are you walking
downstairs to the game store and buying an N64 game right now? - [Matt] No! - He's definitely going to a
video game store right now. - [Ken] I am back from the game store. - That was about one minute. I'm surprised you're already
back from the game store. - So said game store also had an English copy of Hey You Pikachu, which is very appropriate for this even though it's not a Japanese copy and you need of course the
microphone and headset. All right. Let me know if anything happens. (Ken blowing into the cartridge) - That always fixes problems. You know what also fixes problems? - Testing things before-- Oh my god. - [Ken] Okay. So maybe it
won't work all the time, but - Hello. Welcome back
to Mystery Tech Day 2 where we have ourselves the correct module for Hey You Pikachu. So fun fact. This is the USA variant,
before we had the Japan variant which for some bizarre
reason doesn't work. Let's try this again. Shall we? Hey Pikachu. Hey Pikachu. Hey Pikachu. Come here. Hey Pikachu. Look out the window. Why is it? Why are you being a little (beep) Pikachu? Pi-- ka-- chu-- I get the impression he's not listening to me at all. Hey Pikachu. It works! It works! I just wasn't pressing the Z button. I didn't play through the tutorial. Man, I didn't know. - Pikachu, give me the ball. - Whoa! - Give me the, give me the thing. - Wow! - Pikachu's very curious about me. Not curious about Austin Evans. And with that, thank you for watching this episode of Mystery Tech. If you guys liked it, please subscribe. And for more mystery tech-- Got anything to say, Austin Evans? - What's that box right there? You just preemptively end
the Mystery Tech episode. I'm just saying there's a box right there. - I wanna go home. - We know. - I just wanna go home. - And a pre opened box, I see. What is this? It looks 3D printed. Oh it's, oh that's definitely 3D printed. Whoa. Oh, that's a lot. Whoa. Why is-- Why is there so many things-- You care to explain what this is? Oh, this is really dumb. Got it. All right. So I need to build some kind
of contraption for the PS4. How does this go on a
PlayStation controller? I don't think this came with instructions, did it? - Oh, there are. Okay. Yeah. - You know, I, I thought
it was the receipt. All right. So this is what it's
supposed to look like. It's the PS4 HOSAS assembly reference. - [Ken] HOSAS? Wow. - I'm supposed to watch the
original creator's video. Akaki Kuumeri for the best
information and tips on assembly. All right this is actually kind of cool. Wow. I'm going to be here for awhile. Cue the montage. Do you have the budget
for montage for this one? - [Ken] Nope. - And so we have this, you might notice it
looks a little different than from the instructions. That is probably because this is a 3D
printed items from Etsy. You may also notice that we have a couple of rubber bands here which is supposedly
useful in making it work. - [Ken] To be fair, those
rubber bands were not included. - Yes. We had to try to find
them their triggers and stuff. If we had a bunch of rubber bands. We could probably get it working. I don't think this is going
to work, but let me try this. Wait, so is this the left stick? How actually fly? Oh, the left. The right stick is how I fly
in the left stick is throttle. Oh, okay. Wait, hold on. There we go. There we go. Look at that full throttle. I'm getting out of here. Okay. Nope. Nope, Nope, Nope, Nope. Pop, pop, pop. Okay. Ah, no. Nope. Is this how's this supposed to be used? No, but it'd be a lot better
if I had all the rubber bands I was supposed to and
actually built this properly. Yes. But it works. It works better than Hey You Pikachu did. Thank you very much for watching this episode of Mystery Tech. As this, how I should be using this? No, but you know, what's
great about Mystery Tech? Neither do I.