- Hey guys, this is Austin. It's been seven years since
PS4 and Xbox One were released which means only one thing, time for the next generation. At this point both the
PS5 and Xbox Series X are officially coming out, so that leaves me with four questions. When do they come out? How powerful are they? What exactly is new? And how much will they cost? The release dates are
pretty straightforward, both Sony and Microsoft
have gone on record saying that their consoles will be coming out holiday of 2020, which very likely means either October or November of this year. If it's anything like last generation, they'll likely come out
really close together. Back in 2013, the Playstation
4 came out exactly one week ahead of the Xbox One
here in North America. One thing to consider
are the announcements. So Microsoft of course, surprise dropped a ton of information on the Series X back at
the Game Awards last year, however Sony, while they've
been talking about the PS5, have yet to do their official
announcement for it yet. So based on rumors, we should expect that to happen very soon, so make sure to subscribe to the channel so you're kept up to date with the latest on
these next gen consoles. A difficult question
is exactly how powerful are the Playstation 5 and Xbox Series X? Now to start out with, we actually do have a fair
bit of official information. Both the PS5 and Series
X are taking advantage of AMD technology on the CPU and GPU side. Processors are likely to be
one of the biggest jumps, so Xbox as well as
Playstation this time around are sticking with an eight core design, however it will be taking advantage of the latest Zen 2 core from AMD, which as we've seen in
the PC space with Ryzen, is incredibly impressive, and
especially when you compare it to the last generation consoles, which had pretty weak
Jaguar CPU cores, which were essentially mobile chips, it makes a huge, huge difference. And in fact we actually did a video where we built a PC as close
to PS5 spec as possible, and we saw something in the neighborhood of about a three times
performance improvement going from those old school
last generation console CPUs, to this new generation, it's gonna be a big leap. Graphics are where things start to get a little bit more interesting. So again, both Sony and Microsoft are opting to go with AMD Navi GPUs, which is pretty much what
happened last generation, in that the Xbox One and PS4
had very similar graphics, just slightly differently configured, and I expect that to be
the case this time around. So in addition to the Navi GPU core, we also should see much
faster GDDR6 memory. Now that's what we know officially, however if we take a little
trip into rumor town, a lot of things are
lining up that the PS5, while it will be significantly more powerful than the PS4 Pro, as well as the Xbox One X, will still be at a power deficit compared to the Xbox Series X. And the reason for that
is really straightforward, seems like Microsoft are
spending a lot of money, and a lot of engineering on just simply brute-forcing their way to
a more powerful console. So we're talking about a larger chip, as well as higher clock speeds, and the cooling to support that. Funnily enough, we actually
have more information on this thanks to Phil Spencer, the head of Xbox, who recently changed his Twitter profile photo to be a shot of the chip
inside the Series X. Now while there have
been a lot of attempts to sort of figure out
exactly how big it is, it's kind of hard to tell since there's no clear
reference point in that photo, but I do think it's a
very safe bet to say, that this will be larger
than the Xbox One X chip, and especially considering
that it should be on the seven nanometer process, expect a ton of power
packed into this guy. (coughing) Oh, nicely done, I think you made that, right? But there is a wrinkle to all of this, and that is there actually might be three next generation
consoles, instead of two. So for over a year now we've heard rumors about an Xbox Lockhart console. Now this was something that
was a little bit more akin to say the Xbox One S, versus the One X. Still the same basic consoles, still capable of playing the same games, however with a cheaper price tag, and with less performance. So say Series X is aimed at 4K, this Lockhart, or what I'm
gonna call the Series S, will be aimed at something
like 1080p or 1440, if you're saving a couple hundred dollars, might be worth it? Now in conjunction with all the talk about this Lockhart Series S console, there are actually quite
a few leaked benchmarks, and some leaked specs, however I would take all of these with a massive pile of salt, - [Ken] Pile of salt? - Yes, pile of salt. Not a pinch of salt, not
a sprinkling of salt, you need a pile of salt. Because some AMD researcher in some lab loaded up Windows and
ran 3DMark does not mean that's how powerful it is. (laughing) But pile of salt aside, what you should I think expect, if this Lockhart or Series S console does see the light of day, is for it to be perfectly powerful, it's going to be capable of playing all the same games, it just won't be playing
it at that same resolution, that same frame rate, that
same graphical fidelity. Now while the Xbox Series X is official, this supposed Series
S is not official yet. And because of that, I highly doubt that we will
see it come out this year, so my money would be
on the PS5 and the Xbox coming out later this year, with the Series X coming
out maybe early next year, just to kind of give a little
bit of space on the launch. Now when it comes to the
performance of these consoles, while yes, both the PS5 and Xbox Series X will be capable of 8K resolutions, thanks to their HDMI 2.1 ports, beyond that, I really don't think that's going to be the goal, besides, who actually has
an 8K TV at this point? Realistically, both
consoles should be focused on 4K, 60 frame per second gaming. Again, Phil Spencer has
already gone on record as saying that's really
what they're targeting, they don't care about the raw pixel count, rather the frame rate, the fluidity, and probably most importantly, the actual graphics
that you're delivering. I mean, seriously, you can watch a life-like version of, oh, I don't know, planet, what is it? What's planet world? World planet? What's the nature doc that everyone loves? Planet Earth? You could watch Planet Earth in 720p, it's gonna look a whole lot more realistic than "The Witcher" at 4K on an Xbox. Pixels aren't everything,
Marques has been lying to you. You can watch MKBSD
and it'll be just fine. (siren wailing) - [Ken] Jesus. - So along side of that, some games will likely take
advantage of higher frame rates, so something like 120 frames per second, and maybe like 1080p might be an option for more eSports oriented titles. And both the PS5 and Xbox Series X will have additional features, including support for
hardware ray tracing, which will make the lighting
much more realistic, and especially on the audio front, Sony's really been pushing their, I think they call it
ray tracing for audio, which is definitely not the correct term, but something along those lines, that'll be a much more
realistic audio experience. Another big advantage will be
standard SSDs across the board for this next generation. Now this is something which
will help for several reasons, first of all, the previous
generation consoles, they had these huge worlds, but a lot of times they would take like a minute or two to launch. However this time around, we should see significantly
cut down load times, and as a side benefit, some companies, such as Microsoft, have
been touting the fact that they'll be able to use this SSD as virtual ram, to give
even more memory available for even bigger, more higher
detailed textures and worlds, and all that kind of stuff. Ultimately, this generation
consoles will be more powerful, but it won't be a massive leap like we saw from the Xbox to the
Xbox 360, or something. While yes, we will technically be capable of high resolutions, really what I expect are more detailed game worlds, and sort of smaller,
more evolutionary steps. The bigger difference here is going to be, of course, in the actual games. Now I'm curious to see how this shapes up, because obviously this generation,
with the Playstation 4, Sony has dominated with dedicated and very sort of embedded studios have been cranking out great content that is really exclusive
to the Playstation. And while Xbox has
definitely trailed so far, a few years ago they purchased
a ton of major studios and a lot of those exclusive games are going to be coming
out on the Series X. Although I will note that Microsoft has actually said that a
lot of the Series X games, at least at launch and
for the first year or two, will also be coming
out on PC and Xbox One, so you can still probably
experience these things, just not quiet as shiny
and new as on the Series X. - [Ken] Or you get the PC version. - Or you get the PC version, which will probably look
better than all of them. The next question is what
exactly is new this generation? Well the easiest place to start is certainly with the
physical designs themselves. And with the Xbox Series X, well it's big, it's really big. Expect it to roughly double
the size of the Xbox One X, if not even a little bit bigger than that, which makes it less-so a console, and more-so a small gaming PC, similar to the one I have right behind me, very coincidentally. Now this is necessary because
you do need more cooling for the extra power of the Series X, but that being said, get ready to clear some
space underneath your TV, or behind your TV, or beside your TV, or on the ground in front of your TV. Besides the fact that
it has an optical drive and USB port up front, that's about all we know
officially with the Series X, however a photo of the rear
of it got leaked on Twitter, and it looks very standard. HDMI, USB, optical audio, but what's kind of interesting is, is that there was a very
clearly readable serial number, which someone was able
to successfully register on the Microsoft site. So yeah, this is probably what the Series X is gonna
look like around back. Like the Xbox, the Playstation 5 will also have an optical drive, although this time they're
using a custom disk, which will have 100 gigabytes of capacity, as well as backwards
compatibility on the PS5, with UHD Blu-rays, and
probably standard Blu-rays, and DVDs and all that kind of stuff. Now what likely will not
have an optical drive, is Xbox Lockhart, aka the Series S. Now this actually no surprise to people who have actually been, you know, looking at Xbox's recently. As they've already brought out a all digital version of the Xbox One S, and I wouldn't be surprised, especially considering that the Series S is supposed to be significantly cheaper, that in addition to cutting
some of the performance and some of the specs, they'll also drop out that optical drive. If you want to buy a physical disk, you gotta get one of the big boys. Or just download them, which
is probably the smart move. Now the feature that isn't
new is that Xbox Series X, should pretty much be a full
replacement for the Xbox One. So peripherals, accessories, controllers, should all come straight
through and work, no problem, as will all of the
backwards compatible games. So you will be able to play
Xbox One games on the Series X, as well as Xbox 1, and Xbox 360, or sorry, Xbox original, Xbox 360, and Xbox One, because that's
even more confusing now. But the nice thing here is that really by getting a Series X, theoretically it's a drop-in upgrade, all of the current games, all the current Xbox One
gear you have right now, will just work. On the Playstation side, things are a little bit more ambiguous. So Sony has claimed
that they'll have great backwards compatibility, but realistically that's probably going to mean it will just work with
Playstation 4 games, as the AMD architecture going from PS4 to PS5 is very similar. Now while it would be
great to have PS1, PS2, or even PS3 backwards compatibility, I'll believe it when I see it. We have a brief look at what
the controller will look like on the Series X, and surprise surprise, it's almost the exact
same as on the Xbox One, with some slight tweaks. Now the Playstation's a
little bit more interesting. Now while officially
they've talked a bit about the idea of having some back buttons as well as more customizable triggers, but they coincidentally
just released an add-on for the Dualshock 4, which not only adds those
customizable rear buttons, but also an OLED screen to
the back of the controller. I think that's a, maybe a
little more than a coincidence, and I feel this is a very good look at what the PS5 controller will look like, but at the very least, some of the features that it will have. But last and arguably
most important question about these next generation consoles is how much will they cost? Now for this we have no
official information yet, however between the rumors
and basic common sense, I think we have a pretty good guess. So when it comes to Xbox Lockhart, aka the Series S, we're likely looking at
a console around $400. Move up the the Playstation 5, and that one has been
pegged at about $500, whereas the Xbox Series X will likely come in somewhere
around the $600 price-point. Now I'm curious, what do you guys think about these next gen consoles? And don't forget to hit
that subscribe button to make sure that you're kept up to date with the latest and greatest
of the console wars, V17, or whichever generation
we're on right now. I think it's nine actually, but who's counting? (upbeat music)