- Welcome to AliExpress, legitimately the home of some of the most interesting tech and
gadgets on the internet. So, I can get a water quality tester. I wanna test my water. Is my water really water? Also, I like how they
advertise free 11 day delivery, it's a very specific number. Six finger linkage
chicken eating artifact. Oh, it's "PUBG." It's winner winner chicken dinner. But when you translate it, it happens to be chicken eating artifact. I've seen this before. A urinal, car bucket, outdoor standing urine, emergency travel. Oh okay, yep, show me how to open it. Yep, that's the hole. You pee pee in there, and then you empty it, and then you collapse it. Well, I mean for $1.99
it beats a Pringles can, am I right? Ooh, okay, so these are the
KZ EDX Pro Dynamic Headphones. So KZ is a manufacturer
of some very cheap, but generally quite
good sounding headphones and IEMs and whatnot. And for $2.99 cents, that is impressive. The Soyes S23 Mini. So they say that it is a three inch screen with the 3G network, and apparently five cameras. - [Alex] Yeah, you love tiny phones. - You know what? I do, I'm a big fan of small things. The smaller the better. And they also have a mini
iPhone from the same company. All right, my friends, I
think that's all we need for this episode of a AliExpress Tech. Let me hit that big red checkout button, and I will see you in
apparently 11 to 37 days when all of my items
arrive from AliExpress. Let us begin with the
tiniest of tiny phones, you may need a magnifying
glass to see this one. This is the Soyes S23 Pro. Look at this little guy. He's so little. He's even got the little five camera array as if it's an S23 Ultra, they call it a Pro but an Ultra. I think only one of those cameras is real, I think the other ones are
just sort of placeholders. But you know what though? As tiny as it is, it's
actually like massively chunky, like, this is way thicker
than a normal phone. How much was this device? - [Alex] It was $30 for a fully, theoretically, fully functional phone. So 30 bucks is like the
point where I'm like, is this actually even running Android or is this running as
like some dumb phone OS? Because they do, they do give you an adorable little case, and it is thankfully USB-C. So far, not so bad. We even get a baby screen protector. Ah, it's so cute. Oh my god, it's actually running Android. Holy, right? That's Android. That's a skinned version
of Android, but oh my God, it's an actual Android phone. It's got the Play Store. Bro, wait, did I get something
good from AliExpress? Battery, 68%, about 53 minutes left. (crew laughs) It's got cameras too, let's
see how the cameras are. This is a sample of what
the video looks like coming from my S23 Pro. Now, it's probably not
good, but 30 bucks, man. 30 bucks, look, there's something to this. Hit me. (Alex laughs) It looks exactly the same. All right, so this is the Soyes
XS16 Digital Mobile phone. It apparently has dual SIMs. Did you see it's got two IMEIs? That's kind of interesting. Okay, behold our iPhone X. (Alex laughs) Okay, so it is very cute from the back, and it is the chunkiest thing
I've ever seen from the side. So, for context, this S23 Pro, this is an actual iPhone, and this is the Soyes. So it is significantly
thicker than an iPhone, but especially because it's so small, it like really makes it
feel like a chunkier. Now how much was our, they
call it an iPhone XS, but it looks more like a 13 or 14 'cause it's got the triple cameras. Do you know how much this is? - [Alex] So this was around $53, but- - Okay. - [Alex] It costs a lot
more, because you know, like most iPhones it is
better than most other phones. - Oh, as soon as you have an iPhone badge, you get to charge more, how interesting. Not to give them credit,
because to be fair, these are also fake cameras. Like on the S23, like,
that's the real one, these two look fake. But can you see in the light? It's kinda actually a kind of
interesting speckle pattern. I actually wouldn't hate if I could buy a phone that
had that sort of pattern. Can you see it in the light? Let's see what we got. It is, oh no, it's not identical, it has slightly different icons to make it look more like
iOS, but only slightly. Okay, so it's the same kind of camera app. The camera looks like it may
be slightly better, honestly. Oh my God, yeah, that's
actually a huge difference. I mean, this one looks like you whispered the word
color into a camera. This one actually has
like some saturation. They do say they come with dual SIMs, which would be very impressive
in such a small device. So let's actually try. What is going on here? So, okay, that's a SIM card. Is that a dual SIM, and then this one could turn into microSD? I think that's what we're looking at. It's actually not horrible
though, it does kind of work. For context, my thumb covers
up the entire keyboard, like the whole thing. Obviously, there's a lot of
inspiration with these designs, and the large number of
not real cameras on them, but I find myself gravitating toward the S23 a little bit more. I think I like the way it
feels just a little bit more. I think the design looks more actually like a baby
Samsung, which is adorable. And 30 bucks, I think, is a
little bit more of a like, "Hey, I wanna give it a try." Versus 60, I'm just like, I don't know, just buy a real phone at that point. (plastic rustling) (goose honks) Wow, it's a goose. Oh well, boy, that is... (Alex laughs) What? Can you just like look at his eyes? There is some deep dark
pain behind those eyes. Okay, ready, and. (Alex laughs) - This is- (Alex laughs) - [Alex] Yes. - I was about to say, I
should like start being mischievous around the office. - [Alex] Yeah. - No one will see who I am. I'm like, (duck quacks) Can I do the rest of the video like this? I deeply regret my decisions,
but you know what I do? I do it for the thumbnail. All right, we have a set of EDX Pro in ear ergonomic structure headphones. Now, these actually I think will be good. So, this is from KZ. How much were my KZ EDX Pros? - [Alex] These were $5 flat. - That's a pretty good price,
that's honestly not bad. So let's see how well these KZs work. You know what? Okay, I'll take this off. We're good, we're good. - [Alex] You made it 10 times worse. - We've got ourselves not
only the cable, some ear tips, but we also have the monitors themselves. These look sick. So you can see that
they're fully transparent. Now, mind you, they're not
like super complicated, right? So you see, it looks like
there's like one driver and that's pretty much it. But we're talking $5, like,
what are you gonna expect? And the fact they have
detachable cables is neat, because if you ever do wear it out, I mean they're five bucks or whatever, but like you could swap
the cables as well. And that is a, ooh, I like
that cable, that looks nice. The fact that it's all transparent, you can see everything inside. Man, for five bucks. For my in ear monitors to work. What is this? It's a Bluetooth cassette player. I know that you can still
buy new cassette players. As far as I know, they're all bad. Like, all of the companies
who made good cassette players have stopped years ago, so I think there's only like
maybe like a factory or two that make cassette players today, and they're very low quality. So I'm gonna have low expectations. But also if you're
buying a cassette player, I mean, I think you're kind of in for a little more of an experience. Boy, that looks unbelievably cheap. Please tell me that this
was unbelievably cheap. - [Alex] What is your definition
of unbelievably cheap? - $23. - [Alex] Incorrect. We paid around 30. - Okay, so immediately what I see here, glossy plastic, the like, chintziest of buttons, and it does have a little like, Bluetooth style control on the back. Oh, that's the one. What? No, look at this. Dude, the best part of the cassette player is the ke-chunk. Like, you know what a
cassette player sounds like. It's not. That is so sad. This is like the weakest little
mechanism I've ever heard. All right, let's listen. This is Andy Williams. God, that's awful. Oh, you know what it is? I know what it is, I know what it is. So it doesn't have Dolby noise reduction. Cassettes, by definition, are typically a little noisy, right? There's a little bit of
that sort of like hiss, that sort of like, it's
not a pleasant sound, it's just a like, poorly
amplified kind of sound. Pretty much every decent cassette player had Dolby noise reduction. There's a couple different versions, and basically that would help
to knock out some of that, like (mimics static) that
you hear in the background, and help cassettes sound pretty decent. This definitely doesn't have that, which means that you hear
just a (mimicking static) To give these EDX Pros a proper shot, I'm going to listen to it on the new G14. Oh (censored), these are good. Hell yeah, dude, those are great. Look, I'm not gonna try to tell you that these are gonna be
audiophile-grade $500 headphones. But I guarantee you, you
blind test these headphones, most people are gonna
think these cost $100 plus. These might be my biggest recommendation for an item I've looked
at from AliExpress, ever. Curse you, past Austin! Why did I buy a tongue
scraper from AliExpress? How does one scrape a tongue? I'm looking at an implement. It looks like it was a reject
from the dentist office. It's not sharp, which is always good, but it's, the roundness doesn't really fill me with confidence, 'cause how is a round thing
going to scrape your tongue? - [Alex] Because you're doing it wrong? You hold those ends. You hold those ends. You're upside down. Yeah, there you go.
- Oh. - [Alex] There you go. - Oh, so you do this not. - [Alex] No, yeah. You didn't even clean it beforehand. You didn't... You didn't even clean
beforehand, what are you doing? I don't know. Why are you doing this? - Oh, the drool is running
down the side of the- - [Alex] Um. - Is my tongue clean? - [Alex] Oh my gosh.
(Austin coughs) - I should have sniffed
that thing a little bit more before I put it in my mouth. - [Alex] Oh my God. - Maybe, I'll see you tomorrow. I'll finish this video tomorrow once I have a quick little
word with my physician, and ask about the workers' comp. - [Joanna] Okay, Neville, it's up to you. - Oh no. Okay, so this is our A50 Pro. I think I bought another fake phone. Okay, the Servo, A50 Pro. So this, oh, yes! Yes, it's so good. Oh my God, it really is. So this is the iPhone Flip. Oh, that hinge. Holy, look at the hinge. Whoo, I am into it. Now, this is not a screen,
that's just a sticker, but if Apple made a iPhone Flip, it would be exactly this. You know why I'm really
happy I have this now? Think about how many great
fake thumbnails I can make now. We don't need to to spend time photoshopping an iPhone onto a Z Flip, we can just take pictures of this. So, if you put this A50 Pro
side by side with a Z Flip, you'll see that the
resemblances are uncanny, but it really is very iPhone-y. As impressive as it is on the outside, the inside is a little bit less so. So, if I take off this, it
looks a whole lot less cool. And then the buttons on the bottom, it's like my first Moto Razr. But you know, like the baby
version 'cause I'm a child. Yeah, so this screen is absurdly bright, like to the point where my eyes hurt, it's probably clipping on the camera. This is really bad, wow. I'm not sure why I am
surprised this is really bad, but it is in fact really, really bad. Memory card removed. I need a microSD card. (Alex laughs) You know what, that's a
feature that the Z Flip and the iPhone don't
have is an SD card slot. So, I've acquired a 16
gigabyte microSD card. Hello my friends, and welcome to the cutting edge Pro HDR, Pro HDR, high-quality image from the Apple iPhone Flip. (phone beeps) It doesn't have enough memory to record for a single second? It comes with a very hard
little plastic case for your, how expensive was this? - [Alex] It was $18. - Honestly, I'd pay $18
to flex on my friends that I got the new foldable iPhone. Ugh. Ugh. It don't feel good. All right. (tone beeps) Did it just make the noise?
(tone beeps) (Alex laughs) I'm pretty sure I know what this is. We have a little bit of a theme when it comes to ordering
stuff from AliExpress. Behold, the Portable...Dreamcast. Yes, my friends, the absolute
mad lads on AliExpress, crafted from an authentic
Dreamcast motherboard, an actual real Dreamcast portable. We've looked at a portable
PS2 from AliExpress, which was kind of mid. A portable GameCube, which
was actually quite good. But my first impression
is that this looks like the most high quality, well-designed one. Obviously, it's heavy, right? It is quite chunky, and I don't love like the D-pads, and some of the buttons, you can even see like
the X, Y, A, B buttons are all 3D printed,
which are a little rough. But the screen actually is
not like, incredibly small. It's also, to be clear,
not copyright infringement. It's not Dreamcast, it is Dreamcat, which is a totally different thing, and no copyright intended. I'm gonna play my Dreamcat now. VMU is activating. I hear, oh, look at that, boom, Dreamcast, instantly ready to go. Boy, the Steam Deck Exhaust
has got nothing on this thing. (Austin sniffs) Woo! Woo. (Austin claps) Wow. - [Alex] They specifically tell you not to huff the exhaust, please. - I would say the screen
is not bad, it is 16:9, which is not correct for the Dreamcast, so it's stretching the image a little bit. I actually have the VMU functional, so they definitely wired it correctly. So, the VMU was a combo memory card, and a little like sort of screen, and you actually had a
couple of buttons on it. So there's some very simple like, Tamagotchi-style things you could do. But what I can do is, I
can actually use that to save to the VMU. So, this is exactly like as
if I was actually playing on a real bit of Dreamcast
hardware because I am, there's no emulation going on. I am playing a ROM, but it is playing it on
the original CPU, GPU, VMU. So, the controls feel good. The actual stick does, I think the stick is actually 3D printed, I think everything is 3D printed here. How far away is this hospital? No! I took a little too long. Dude, this thing is actually
really good, like, honestly. Like, okay, let me turn
the volume down here. I mean, look, are these things practical? Of course not. You know, I think no
one in their right mind should spend $500 on a little
portable thing of something that you can easily emulate
or buy a real Dreamcast. But I really appreciate the fact that someone has gone through the trouble of taking original hardware
and modifying it in, I would say a really quite solid way. The screen is good, the speakers are good. It's a 3D printed enclosure, but it's actually done really quite well, it's sort of smooth. Like yes, if you're looking for it, you can see some little
like, sort of imperfections, but for something that was
custom designed, it's not bad. It also has the VMU, I mean, I cannot justify $500 for this, like, it's so much money. And the fact that you have
to already have the ROMs means that you could have
just emulated it anyway. But like, I respect the fact that this was an enormous amount of work, and has been done really quite well. This is my favorite of
the AliExpress emulators that we've seen, like it is just legitimately really cool. So, I'm seeing, and I'm
not really understanding what the hell did I purchase? Because this says it's a
Premium-Grade Pure Moxa Roll, which sounds real fun, but then it's got this weird ass, like, is it like an incense holder? I thought this was, it said acupuncture. - [Alex] Yeah. So, this is a, I don't, I'm probably gonna pronounce it wrong, Moxibustion box thing? - Moxibustion? - [Alex] Yes. So I have seen it sort of, so it's basically like
acupuncture, but with fire. - Okay. Those, that's the, there's a acupuncture and then there's fire, there's not a lot of like overlap. This is the thing which
said it was copper. I mean, do I like, where do I, just like- - [Alex] You put fire
in those things, if I- - That seems sus. - [Alex] I understand it correctly. - Okay. You know what, I will say something. It smells delightful, smells like tea. Okay, but here's the
question, how do you... How do you do the, do I like unroll it? I'm just gonna crack it and
just, we're just gonna just. - [Alex] Do not try this at home, unless you know how to do it. - Now I'm gonna put it in the thing. - [Alex] Yeah. (Austin coughs) What does it smell like? - Like cigarettes. (Alex laughs) It's in copper, so what could go wrong? - [Alex] Yeah, surprisingly, these did not come with
instruction manuals, so it's- - They're like, if you're
dumb enough to do this, you know what you're doing. (Austin coughs) - [Alex] Yeah, it's starting to fill up the studio real bad.
- A little bit. (Austin coughs) All right, we're gonna release it. What happens? Whoa. Woo. Okay. - [Alex] Oh, no, no, no. That's, I think that's
gonna make it hotter. (Austin coughs) - I think I've lost a couple
months off my life right now. - [Alex] Yeah, this is
bad, this is really bad. - I'm gonna open the door. - [Alex] Somehow, I don't
know why you fanning it is making it worse. - [Joanna] Yeah, kind of. - There's a little bit of smoke in the studio right now. - [Joanna] Wait, let me
add air to this fire. - Okay, hang on. I'm gonna put this out,
I'm gonna put this out. - [Alex] It's just, it's stronger. It's getting stronger. - I'm trying to make a stop. (Alex laughs) - [Alex] It's getting worse.
- I need water. (explosion)