- Today I am ordering items from Goodwill. To put Goodwill to the test, I'm ordering a bunch of
items from their store to see exactly how good or
bad the deals really are. So this is called The
GRID Powered by Goodwill. Now, I've heard a rumor
that a lot of Goodwill stores actually ship their tech to this store. And looking at the photo, I mean it looks like a video game store. Assorted lot of PCI
computer cards for 10 bucks. So there's probably
like some capture cards, I see what looks like a PS2. Is that a graphics card? Here are an assortment of video games that are scratched slash
untested for 66 bucks. But you can see, I mean that's a lot. They've got PS2 games, PS3, PS4, Xbox One, Xbox 360, Wii. I mean that's a lot of games. Oh! A gaming PC? Hello. $200? Okay. But you've
got a Core i7-3930K. That was a high-end chip back in the day. 32 gigs of RAM, a GTX 680. Now they did take out the SSD. Back when this was new,
probably what, 2012-2013? This is probably like a $2,000 system and they're selling it,
buy it now for $200. Oh dude, it's got the Noctua cooler. Dude, this system would've been dope! Although, why they installed the GPU on the bottom slot is strange. Oh! (Austin gasps) What? Vintage Apple II Plus
and two floppy drives? Are you kidding me? Oh! Oh God, I'm also gonna need some heavy duty eucalyptus oil to clean it up. Hello! Xbox One Beta Build Dev Unit, $800. What is this doing at Goodwill? Who donates a Dev Xbox?
Are you kidding me? All right, so I'm gonna spend the next, probably several hours, bidding on as many of these
items as I can get my hands on, 'cause this is, oh, it's so cool. So I may have ordered a little
bit more than I expected, but these are all of
our Goodwill GRID boxes. I have no idea what's what. So let's dive in, shall we? Let's start out with
Fragile box number one. Not only did they nicely tape up the box but that is like so much bubble wrap to the point where I don't
even know what this is. Oh wait, no, no, no,
there's more stuff too. What the? Okay, so item number one is my Sony Tablet P. (Ken gasps) - [Ken] Wait, wait.
- Yeah, you got it. - Really?
- Yes. - The Sony Tablet P. Did you ever have a Sony tablet P, Ken? Did you want one?
- No, I've always want... Oh... (Ken laughs) I went to CES when they
announced this thing and I did a hands-on video. I'm holding my Zoom H1. I got my three sizes
two large dress shirt on and I drop it. I dropped it straight in the
middle of the Sony booth. Of course, it does have a pair of screens which you guys can see. (Sony P crashing) (loud beeping) So this was an AT&T exclusive. So it does have 3G and
you can tell how old it is because it doesn't have the Play Store, it has the Android Market,
which I highly doubt works. It gives me a "Sign In" failure. So I guess it's so old that this is no longer supported. What version of Android
is this actually running? I'm curious. So we are on Android 3.2.1. Here's the problem with this, it's so old that nothing
works on it anymore which is a shame 'cause we actually did pay a hundred bucks a little over a hundred bucks for this. So the concept was that this was a dual
screen Android device. They called it a tablet. It had a bunch of PlayStation features. So if you close it, you actually have a tiny little PlayStation like Play logo. This is around the time they're doing also the Xperia Play. So the concept was, you buy a Sony phone, you also get like the ability to play some PlayStation
games like PS1 and whatnot. This was ahead of its time. I wish I could do something on it because nothing is working. You know what though? Is
that a tablet in your pocket? - [Matt] Oh boy. - It's my Z Flip 6. (phone beeping)
- [Matt] That'd be a fold. - What? I can't hear you
over how cool my tablet is. We have our digital Mavica. This box is so much bigger than I thought. Who drops this off at Goodwill? What are y'all doing? This is so cool. - [Ken] Wait, is that the floppy disc one? - Yeah, this floppy disk. Yeah, yeah. 1.3 megapixels.
- [Ken] Yo! Oh my god this is... - I know. This is great. So this camera came out in 2000. - This camera's old enough
to work at Overclock Media. - I hate that there's people working here who are not as old as this camera. There's a baby editing this video right now. Oh my God. The person editing this video might be less old than this camera. That's disturbing. I don't like that. - You mean younger? (Ken laughs) - The Mavica, oh dude, it's
so much bigger than I thought. I mean I guess it's got a
floppy disc drive, but like yo, yo, yo. - [Ken] I'm gonna be
taking this to concerts. I can't wait. - Yeah, actually like for
real right? Say cheese! We're currently at the
drag strip, just hanging out. It felt like it was
the perfect opportunity to try the Mavica in the real world. You've got some really
good photos with this. It's actually perfect 'cause there's a lot of action happening. So it's been a learning curve, trying to figure out when to take a photo because the buffer is real. - It runs on floppy disks
to save all the photos, so I have this box of just floppy disks. It'll hold about six to
eight photos per disc which is hilarious. - [Ken] Look at that. (cars revving) While the Tablet P may not have been a commercial, financial
or spiritual success, you know what was? The iPad. So this is the very first generation of Steve Jobs' favorite iSlate, the iPad. I thought it was gonna
be the iSlate, okay? I still think iSlate
was a better name. So. - [Matt] The what? - The iSlate. Everyone thought that
before the iPad came out it was gonna be called the iSlate. Oh my God, it's so good. Remember skeuomorphism? (iPad clicking) Oh, it's got the noise! Wait, wait, wait, wait. Hold on. We got, (iPad clicking) - [Ken] I do miss that. (Austin banging table) (muffled screaming) - So this is running iOS 5.1. That's why. You know
what else is interesting? Back in the day, Twitter
was one of the settings. Oh my God, look at the old multitasking. I forgot about this. You double tap the home button and your multitasking
pops up on the bottom! Look at that. It's so good, dude. Like honestly, this holds up. Now, I will say it is heavy. - Trying to hold this with one hand. - It's a two hand boy. - It is. Whoo! - Like a lot of the tech
that we're looking at today, a lot of this stuff is old
and no longer supported. In my head, the iPad is what it's always been in my head which is this neat, cool device that we all thought was
super cool for 500 bucks when Steve Jobs walked out on stage. But in reality, I don't even, it's like, you know what it is? iPad's like somebody I used to know. (bright upbeat music) Oh, we got a bunch of stuff in here. 
Ooh! I do know what this one is. This is my lot of GPUs. So because I got that
Dell, I wanted to make sure that I could actually
do something with it. So I bought a lot. It's just a complete random assortment of old graphics cards. Are any of them
functional? I have no idea. They're all untested. But I
assume that they probably, at least some of them are. Oh! Oh, score! We got a 6800 GTS. Okay, so if literally nothing else works, this is the GPU that I actually want. This whole box is GPUs. Bath GPUs, these are GPUs, these are GPUs. I gotta like fast track this.
Look how many of these I have. What? What the (censored) happened here? What is a VHDCI? I've never seen that in my life. Hey, this is actually,
this one's decent though. So this is not an ATI card, this is an AMD Radeon card. - [Ken] Oh! An Nvidia NVS 315? - Oh, I got one too. So I started building my
first PCs in like 2011 or so, so before that I'm not super familiar with a lot of these cards. Oh hey, 5750? - Yeah. - Now that's actually,
this is a legit card. - Oh, what the? - Oh, that's old. Look at the Molex. (Ken laughs) Oh my God! Dude, this thing would've been so badass. NX68T256DH. Look at the power. We've got a 6 Pin into Dual Molex, that shows you how old this is. If this works, that is so cool. 42 graphics cards for $55? Bro, I saw a photo with
five and I was like, sweet, I'll get one and upgrade a PC. This is ridiculous! (Austin grunting) Okay, this thing is heavy. I think I know what this is. I believe that this is
our 2013 era gaming PC. This is really big. I gotta flip the whole box over. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's so big that it
couldn't even fit in a box. So it's just a PC. (Austin grunts) Oh my god, that's so heavy. Ah! there's a Noctua badge on the back. Someone had some taste. This has an i7-3930K, 32 gigs of RAM, GTX 680. Now, they did remove the hard drive which I think is their
like standard policy 'cause they don't want like to, you know pass people's data along. So I'm going to have to
install a fresh copy of, I mean I should be able
to run Windows 10 on it. Although, I guess period correct
would probably be Windows 7. All right, let's take a look here. So we've got a ton of ports. There's USB absolutely everywhere, including two eSATA. We've got a TX750 power supply, actually still totally decent. Our GPU, let's actually
crack it open and see. So it's definitely a little
bit cosmetically scuffed. Look at that. Look at the Noctua. Just the chungus right there. So this is our GTX 680. Man, that was like that was primo when it came out. And we got 32 gigs of
RAM. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. 'Cause it's got quad channel
because it's a 3930K. I bet you, that this as is, will be a pretty decent gaming PC. But if I put in, even
like a vaguely competent, slightly newer graphics card, this thing would actually
still kick ass even today. I will admit, a lot of money. But this thing I think
still has some life in it. So with this system, we've done basically nothing to it. We have not cleaned up or anything. We just put an SSD and a
fresh copy of Windows 7 on it. And I think there's a couple
of games that we can try. But I'm a little bit more excited for this one, if I'm honest, because this was kind of the era where like, I was building PCs and I definitely did
not build a PC this cool back in like 2011-2012.
Like this was like. (Austin clicks tongue) Oh, we're already into it. Wow. Are we already into Windows? Hey, look at that. A
thing that actually works. That's crazy. Let's see what we've got here. So, okay, so processor. So yeah, it does show all six cores and 12 with hyper-threading of our 3930K display adapters. And it does show 680 as well. What I wanna do is, I actually wanna try to play some games. Now, I assume this is just gonna crush. Oh yeah, look at that. Look at the Crysis action. Look how smooth that is too. Crysis was an incredibly
difficult game to run at like max settings. But at this point, a
few years on with a 680, I mean this system is so high-end it's not really a problem. Like, I mean this is super smooth. This looks great. I think I've got all I need
to know with the system. Subscribe to the channel. I have, I think a really cool idea with what I could do with this. But we have a whole lot
more stuff to go through. So this, my friends
should be our HP Pavilion. Yes. So it is a, (laughs hysterically) this is a DV6000. And if you're wondering
why it's so chungusy may I direct your attention to the back with the mega giant 9000 watt battery. Holy! This laptop cost a mere $17. Yeah, you heard me right. Not $117, $17. So this is a Core 2 processor
with two gigs of RAM and no hard drive or anything, and minor cosmetic damage. Can I just point out how
chungusy this battery really is. Look at the, just the sheer si... Okay. Okay, you know what? It's a big battery. You know, enough talking
about the battery. Let's take a look here. This originally ran Windows
Vista Home Premium, baby. You heard me right! This laptop, we're loading
up a copy of Vista. So when it comes to my $19 laptop, I have some concerns.
It is massively heavy. (Windows Vista intro chime) (Austin grunts) What can we do with Vista today? Now, I'm gonna sound like
a broken record here. Running Vista, not a good idea anymore. Nothing really supports
it, but at least Vista, I think I could get like
a web browser working. I'm pretty sure I can do that. I'm gonna watch a video on Windows Vista and I'm gonna go back
and relive my glory days. Yeah, here's the problem. I can't see it. So if I turn it for you, I can't see it. So you know what I'll do? - [Matt] Yeah, I imagine
the viewing angle on there is really, really... Okay, the shoes are off. - It actually works! Not well, and I don't know if I'd
recommend it, but it works! What are we, 360p? That's a video that counts, right? Also, it told me that I can't run Firefox. Okay, yeah, I know, Firefox, I'm out of that date by
like 15 years. I get it. I may have gone a little
PC crazy, I'll admit. We have ourselves, a Dell Optiplex 7600. Now you might see this
and go, "Huh, who cares?" But for $28, I got big
plans. I bought this because on the listing, it had it
labeled as a Core 2 Quad which was a legit CPU, that I'd be very excited to try. But the sticker says Core 2 Duo, which is a lot less exciting and I would not have bought
it if it's a Core 2 Duo. We do have ourselves, both a floppy disc as well as a DVD drive.
Okay! Now we're talking. So this is my little riser. So what the? Oh, weird. So what they've got here is basically, I've got a old school PCI slot and a newer PCI Express slot. And basically, these are just doubled up. So these two slots go down to here. So basically, I have the option of installing an older
graphics card or a newer GPU. Oh man. Okay. That kinda actually sucks. So this is a 255 watt power supply, 80 Plus Silver. Unfortunately, I'm gonna be limited in what kind of GPU I can install, just 'cause I have to be
able to have something that doesn't require external power, which means it's gonna
be 75 watts or less. So problem is, any remotely decent GPU, that's gonna be from the last 15 years, is gonna need at least
some external power. This actually might not be a bad move just 'cause I want to get
HDMI out of this computer. I don't know what this is though. How about we install our mystery GPU? What's the worst that could happen? There we go. And that is, that's it. It's installed. So we got the system up and running, and as I'm sure you can
hear, it's seen better days. It does show, it is in fact a Core 2 Quad. (PC whirring) Yeah. - [Matt] Is there a mechanical
hard drive in there? - There's no hard drive in here. Yeah. So it sounds like a dying hard drive but there is no hard drive. And it's also coming directly
from the power supply, which is real, real, real bad. - [Matt] They're micro fireworks. - Yeah. I think this power supply is literally dying as we speak. (PC ticking) I don't think that we should
plug this one in anymore. Last but not least, let's see what's in the final box. So this is a lot of over 40 games that I paid $112 for. So the photos showed a
mix of all kinds of stuff. And I'm, wow. - NBA Live 06, FIFA Soccer 06, NBA 2K6 with a different logo. NBA Live 2005, NBP, NASCAR Thunder 2002. - Actually, I'll play that. I'll play that.
- I own this game. Let's go. - So I think we've got enough games to keep us excited for quite a while. Perfect. This takes six of day three. We're losing our--
- Hugs. - It's day six. Day six. We've been working on
Goodwill for so long. Because I have purchased so many games, why don't we try, we've already got the PS3 out here. It's got full back compat, let's start by playing
some NASCAR Thunder. We'll play some Duke
Nukem: Land of The Babes from Blockbuster. We're just gonna have a good time. Yeah, let's go boys. Let's go! Oh, I'm on fire. Oh, I'm on fire! I'm on fire Ricky Bobby. Help me, Oprah, help me, Tom Cruise, help me, Jesus. (Austin screams) Oh God. Matt, what're you doing? (Austin laughs) Do you care to tell me--
- Yeah. - Why the hell you bought 97 copies of Skylanders: Giants? You didn't? What? - Look, Matt, I got a
little excited when I saw. - No, no, no. - I saw.
- Look at the, here, just. - Look. I had-- - Do you care to explain yourself here? - I just thought that it was
a good deal because look. - I'm gonna take your credit card away. - NCAA 2000 Football. It's great. Look. - Do we need to have
every version of NCAA? - Look-- - Do we need to have
every Sims expansion pack? Oh, I see what I want. (Austin laughs) - See, you were trying to roast me. There's some good stuff. I just had to buy hundreds of games and dozens of graphics
cards in these huge lots and eventually, I found some gems. Look, Zombieland, still sealed. Law and Order, the first season on DVD. What could you possibly complain about? Clearly, purchasing huge, huge swaths of technology from
Goodwill is a great idea. I did not get scammed. In fact, I would go so far as to say that I scammed Goodwill. I scammed them by giving them money and then giving them my items back because I'm a supporter of the cause. - You can finally learn
how to edit horror films. Final Cut: Death on the Silver Screen. - Don't show the editors. - That's a wrap. (woman screaming)