- Hello and welcome to our
wonderful sponsors Micro Center, where I have a simple question. Is it a good idea to build an all-Intel gaming PC? Starting out with, we have our CPU. Whoa, look at that, the Core i7-12700K. One of the nice things about doing this all-Intel PC build here at Micro Center, is that they have some really good bundles going on right now. So, pairing the i7-12700K CPU with this ASUS Prime Z690-P WiFi board, and 16 gigabytes of
G.Skill Flare DDR5 memory is only 350 bucks, a smooth $420 discount over MSRP. I will however be adding onto the 16 gigabytes of RAM
to come with the bundle, with one additional DIMM, which I think makes a lot of sense if you are going to be utilizing DDR5. What's the point of that extra speed if you don't got those dual DIMMs to take advantage of it? - Dims dale, dima, dima, dima, dima. - The real star of the show here though are these Intel Arc GPUs. Now, I will be honest with you, I have not built a gaming
PC with an Arc GPU. I want to go with the
reference A750 at 250 bucks. It's easy to forget that Intel only released
this first generation of their consumer GPUs a
little over a year ago. And in that time span, they
have made huge strides, optimizing not only for new titles, but they've even made
some pretty big steps on older games as well. Next up, let's choose our SSD. For this one, we're gonna
keep it very straightforward. So we're gonna go with the WD BLACK SN770. For the power supply, we're gonna go with this,
the 650 watt PowerSpec. We've used these in a
ton of builds before, they're semi-modular, and importantly for this
system, because we're going for a little bit of the white
and blue, clean aesthetic, this will fit in nicely. So with our i7-12700K, it
is a quite good gaming CPU, but it also is fairly power hungry, which is part of the reason why of course it does not come with a
stock cooler in the box. There are some of the larger coolers, but I actually think we could
save a little bit of money, and get a little bit of a smaller cooler, like the DeepCool AG400. For our case, we do
have just enough budget to get something that's relatively nice. So this is the MONTECH SKY TWO. Part of the reason why I wanna try this, is because it comes in Morocco Blue, which if you're looking
for an all-Intel build, there are not exactly an enormous amount of blue case options, which
if you look at it on the site, it actually looks kind of cool. It's not like the super-traditional,
very saturated blue, and for a 110 bucks, it's
got the four ARGB fans. It should work pretty well. Last but not least, we're
gonna pick up a copy of ESET Gamer edition, and we'll be ready to build ourselves an all Intel gaming pc. Now, unlike most builds, where
I go into much more depth, I'm gonna fast forward to this, because honestly, you've probably seen me
build a bunch of PCs. The main thing I wanna check
out first and foremost, is the Arc A750, 'cause I'll be honest, I have actually never seen
one of these in person. I have seen photos of them. These stock coolers
actually look kind of neat, but I actually wanna see
what this thing looks like. So we have Arc A750 Limited Edition. You don't buy a GPU for the
looks, most of the time. Oh, we got a little sticker, Intel, you know what they love? They love stickers. Something else I wanna do,
is take a look at our case. Okay, I think this was a good call. That's a nice shade of blue. Please lay the case down, when removing the glass side panel. What's the worst that could happen? Okay, not gonna lay it down, what happens? What, that's fine, they're... Okay mom, I'll put the
side of the panel down. But the most important question we have, we have to use it as our
north star for today's video. Should you build an all-Intel gaming pc? And if you do, what is that
experience actually like? Cut to the building montage. (upbeat music) MOARC baby, that my friends, is an Intel Arc-powered gaming PC. So, we've done some cable management. I'll say it actually
looks relatively good, just a couple of these white cables I don't really know what to do with, but for the most part, I actually think that this is a pretty
solid-looking system. Oh wait, I've got a Core i7 badge too. Where should I put the Core i7 badge? MOARCCORE. There you have it my friends, MOARC, MOCORE, more power baby. - And more power baby. - Now I will admit, I'm slightly partial to the system now that
it's actually built, and it looks all cool and everything, but let's put this all-Intel
gaming PC build to the test. So while we're about to do some gaming, one thing I do wanna try, is the encoding on this Arc GPU, because for 250 bucks, this is a big deal if you are a streamer, or if you work with large
video files like we do. So right now, I've loaded up a 50-gigabyte, 14-minute ProRes 4K file, and I am now compressing it with the AV1 encoding and HandBrake, specifically using our Arc GPU. So I'm currently doing
this video at 60 FPS. I'm going to, just for
the sake of comparison, do the exact same thing on my MacBook. My God, look at that. On the MacBook, I'm getting six FPS, on the Arc GPU, I'm getting 60. That is wild. And keep in mind, that
while this is a laptop, this is a $3,000 MacBook. Mind you, if I was
using a different codec, like H.265, it would be
significantly faster. So for context, we start
out with a 53-gigabyte file, and I was able to compress, (Austin blows raspberries) I was able to compress
that 53-gig file down to 374 megabytes, in double real time. That is surprisingly good. Look at that quality. All right, enough of this video encoding. Why don't we play some games? So we have loaded up several of the most popular games on Steam. So let's start out with "CS:GO" which is the most popular game on Steam, and yeah 284, 304. This is nice. This is good.
(Austin laughs) I'm gonna say, thumbs-up to "CS:GO." Next up, we have "Dota 2," the second most popular game on Steam. Now, this while not
quite as old as "CS:GO," I believe this is a DX11 game, I'm assuming that this
has been well optimized. Rendering, how about I
just do Best Looking, I want maximum look. Maxed out settings, we're currently looking at about 120 FPS. In fact, I actually, I think
we're capped at 120 FPS. Next up, let's try "Apex Legends," a little bit more of a modern title, which while not massively demanding, I think it's probably a pretty
good match for this system. So video, yeah, 720P. How about 1080?
Thank you. Even though, this is not the
most powerful GPU in the world, we paid a $1000 for this gaming PC, I'd better be able to
play games 1080P max. We're the CHAMPION SQUAD. Oh no, why am I always
in the CHAMPION SQUAD? So, before we drop, we're
looking at about a 100 FPS. I will say that if we can
keep this performance up, as we actually jump around,
I will be quite content. So, even here down on the ground, the lowest I'm seeing is it's
dipping to about a 100 FPS. So next up, we're gonna do "GTA V," which is admittedly quite an
old game, but still a game that can be somewhat taxing
when you crank everything up. All right, so "GTA V," we've got DX11. I'm going to basically just crank this up, 'cause there's no reason why I wouldn't. Yeah, wow, look at that. We're dipping out 35, 34, 31. Let's take a look at our
settings in "Warzone." So I'm gonna try quality,
full screen, yada yada, yada. So, "Modern Warfare II" and
"Warzone" are new enough, that they should be really well optimized. Oh yeah, look at that. I mean, dropping in, we're above 60 FPS, which is definitely a good sign. First impressions. I think we actually might be good here. I'm looking at solid 70,
80 FPS on quality settings. So I'm gonna try from, oh no, no, no, don't fall, don't fall, no, he's above me. How do I get up? (gun popping) How did I look, how many times of, what? It was like seven shots in the back, man. Next, let's try "Cyberpunk," which is going to be
the most demanding game, well, one of the most
demanding games, period, but certainly the most demanding game that I'm gonna try on this system. Now, the thing with
"Cyberpunk" is, this is a game that should have been
optimized for the Arc GPUs, but also it's a game that
can actually take advantage of some of the Arc's specific features. So, technically while I wouldn't
necessarily recommend it, this GPU does support ray tracing. So, oh my God, Quick Preset, Ray Tracing Ultra. Mm, I mean it did default
to Ray Tracing Ultra. Look, I'm not gonna do that, right? Yeah okay, I'm gonna do it. All right. It thinks we can do Ray
Tracing Ultra, um, no, no, you know what we could do? Let's do Ray Tracing Low. I think if we could do Ray
Tracing Low, I'd be very happy. Texture Quality, High. We do have Intel XeSS, much like DLSS, and sort
of like a FidelityFX, it's Intel's upscaling method, where it's going to work
together at the game to run the at a lower resolution,
and upscale it in a way that will keep the image quality clean. When it works well, it's a
slight hit to your image quality, but a fairly substantial
improvement to your performance. So, ON, ON, ON, High, ON. I am surprised, "Cyberpunk," we're on High Ultra almost everything. There's a couple of settings
we're not like on Extreme. And Ray Tracing again is on Low, which I think is probably the right move. I don't think this is gonna work. I think that this is too
ambitious, but let's give it a try. With Ray tracing on, I think
you're gonna be like 30 FPS. Oh, 70 FPS, yo, so even as we run through it, I'm not seeing anything below 60. And keep in mind 1080P, pretty much high in Ultra settings across
the board, the defaults. The only thing I did, was I turned the Ray Tracing down to Low, which you get, a little bit of ray tracing can make a pretty big difference. That is impressive. And you look at this compared
to something like "GTA V," this is so much more visually impressive. This I think is probably the best example of the theoretical
performance of this GPU, because let's not forget, this Intel GPU, it is a big physical chip, and if it has the proper optimization, you should expect some
seriously solid performance, well above that $250 price point. That is terrific. I'm legitimately impressed. This is the best thing
that we've done so far. If this is what these Arc
GPUs are actually capable of, we're barely touching 60 FPS in some of the more demanding scenes, with ray tracing enabled, man, last time I tried ray tracing on a slightly lower end card,
I was getting like six FPS. Mind you, it was a
significantly lower card. But average FPS, 71, minimum,
50, that is freaking awesome. Buying an Intel GPU and
going for an all-Intel system is a little bit of a gamble, right? 'Cause you are betting that
Intel are going to continue to improve this tech. But, so far they've had
a sterling track record of constantly making improvements, and where their technology
is at right now, it's pretty good for 250 bucks, man, as is, the fine deals that our wonderful sponsor Micro Center. If you're a new customer to Micro Center, if you go in-store, you
can get yourself $25 off of a processor, and on top of that, you can get yourself a
free 128-gig flash drive, with the opening of the brand
new Indianapolis Micro Center, which I may or may not
be going to very shortly. It's the first time they've
opened a Micro Center in eight years. Last but not least, they also
have a ton of laptop deals going on this month, which of course you can find at the links in the description. Thank you very much to Micro Center for sponsoring this video. And until next time, my friends, (case thudding) I'm pretty happy with this one, not gonna lie, pretty happy.