- This, my friends, is every single Sony PlayStation
handheld of all time, starting with the PocketStation. Now, this might not seem like a true handheld Sony PlayStation, but I can fit it in my hand and
it's got a PlayStation logo, so therefore I submit that it counts. Now, unlike the PSPs and Vitas that we're gonna be
talking about very shortly, this was from an earlier time, back when this thing called
the PlayStation 1 existed. - [Jared] So it only existed in Japan, and they originally planned to
release it in other markets, but it became so popular in Japan that they couldn't even
keep up with demand. - Can I just point out that their mascot was clearly rendered on a PS1. His textures are not matched correctly. He's a little warpy and weird. - [Jared] Aw, you keep saying he. That's not just anybody. That is actually Sony's mascot Toro. - Toro. - [Jared] And his debut
was on the pocket station. - And that was his demise to him. - [Jared] Apparently, I don't really hear about him now. - Oh, it's so cute! So outside the actual
pocket station itself, we've got ourselves a lanyard. You know what? Before we did this video, I
had no idea that this existed. If you wanna take your
PocketStation with you on the go, sounds pretty portable to me. Oh, look at this. Even the little watch battery
has a PlayStation logo on it. See, this has all my favorite things. PSness. - [Jared] Okay, okay. - [Joanna] No, video's over. - [Jared] We're not even at the PSPs. - Is that a PlayStation
logo burned into the screen? That seems less than ideal. So we've got ourselves
looks like an A button. We've got four little D-pad buttons here, and then we've got a speaker, the battery. So you can plug in your
PocketStation directly to your PS1, and that allows you to have a wide variety of different saves and whatnot dropped onto your memory card. On top of that, some
of them would give you some very interesting little bits and bobs of information on your screen. I don't know how to use it, though. - Oh good Lord. - [Jared] Oh, I don't think that was supposed to come off. Did you, why, you immediately broke it! - Anyway, I fixed it. (both laughing) Now, when you say- - [Woman] PlayStation. - Handheld, the thing that I
think is gonna come to mind for most people, is the
PlayStation Portable. 2005 was a magnificent year. Not counting the PocketStation, this was the very first
Sony PlayStation Portable. Nintendo dominated the market. So what Sony did, was they came in and they threw their
biggest advantages at it. This PSP was astronomically
more powerful than the Game Boy, and even the DS. It had a beautiful 16 by 9, 272P resolution screen, full color. Nothing against the DS, obviously
it sold tremendously well, there are a lot of great
games I love on the DS. But if you were a real gamer
in 2005, you wanted a PSP. Now, unlike the puny cartridges
of a Nintendo console, instead you had the beauty
of the universal media disc. The one thing that this really missed on, was it didn't have dual analog sticks. Instead, it had a single little nub, which definitely meant that
you were a little bit limited when it came to certain types of games, like First-Person shooters,
and even some racing games. This also had tons of other cool features. You had an internet browser. And believe me when I say,
having a portable device that I could bring my bedroom
and use the internet on was really great for 13-year-old Austin. I was super excited. I mean, look, how else
would I view YouTube and Wikipedia and other kinds
of wholesome media sources. - [Jared] Yep, uh-huh. - Now there were certainly some downsides. Sony in all of their infinite wisdom, love some proprietary
bull (censored) media. And oh, and oh boy. And oh boy, did they love
Memory Stick Pro Duo. So the UMDs were obviously proprietary, but also the media was too. And I'll tell you a one gig media stick, I wanna say I paid like 80
bucks for it or something. It was so expensive. But it was important because the PSP also
had PlayStation store. You could actually
download games on your PSP. Should we go down memory lane together and experience some PSness together? - [Joanna] Oh. - [Jared] Never heard
my DS make that sound. (all laughing) - Do you actually know how big UMD was? I don't know. - [Jared] So it can hold
up to 1.8 Gigabytes. - That's a lot of data, right? I mean that's denser than
like a DVD of the time. 'Cause DVD is way bigger and can only hold like 4.7 gigs. Yes, there were trade offs with UMD, but the thing was Sony
did a really good job. Things like skipping and whatnot
was very rarely an issue. And while it did make
it a little vibrating, and I will certainly say
it impacted battery life. But gotta consider it's 2005. So let's play some Blazin' Trails. All right, wow these graphics look great. Listen to that beautiful audio, and that sub 30 frames per second. While not a perfect start,
this was a huge win for Sony. And really their best shot at trying to take on
Nintendo's absolute dominance in handhelds, but they did
not stop with the PSP 1000. Oh no, the PSness continued
for many years to come. - [Jared] This is ridiculous. - No more PSness. I apologize, okay. - [Jared] Hey, you know what? - I said it enough times, it sounds a little sus now, I'm sorry. We'll move on to the PSP 2000 yet now. Now this my friends is the
PlayStation Portable 2000, which came out a little over two years after the original model. I mean, in some ways it
was a classic Slim model. It also was significantly lighter. I mean, you put these two side by side, I mean it feels like
it's significantly less. But also as a traditional Slim model, they removed some features. So things like the IR Blaster is gone, but they did add some cool features. So while it still has both the mini-USB, as well as it's got the
little like barrel plug that you can charge it with, this also supported charging via mini-USB. Now this was also a more
powerful version of the PSP. So we had double the ram, It
went from 32 to 64 megabytes. And it also had more internal storage. And by this point, they
had also unlocked that CPU, So was always running at
that much higher frequency. On top of that this
had, a smaller battery. What? - [Jared] Just to be clear though, although the battery is smaller, due to efficiency increases, it actually will have the same
battery life as the original. - One of the things I miss
most about the PSP 1000. So you pop the UMD here, listen to this. (UMD clicking) Solid, chunky, satisfying. I'm doing the same thing on the PSP 2000. (UMD clicking) (image shouting) It was no longer spring-loaded. It's just this little like door. It worked totally fine, but it also didn't quite feel as hefty. The PSP 2000 though did add
one very important feature, the ability to run video out. Now mind you, you had to get
like a really specific cable that was proprietary, surprise, surprise. But you actually had the
ability to take your PSP 2000 and run it up to your TV. Wow, I totally was ready for that. This is said really weird connector. So you plug it in here, and then you can connect it to your fancy high definition television, and get your 277P output from it. This was the Switch before it was cool. Like see this on your DS. The PSP, the original, like
it's got like the little like slightly kind of scooped grips on it, and that extra kind of weight
and stuff to me feels good. Mind you, I'm biased. This, because it's so thin like there's nothing
really for you to grab on. Feels significantly
less comfortable for me. Like I almost have to like
grab it with my middle fingers, which it supports, but it's fine. The original PSP just felt better. This just feels a little too
light, a little too cheap. I mean, look, this thing looks terrific. Now mind you, the screen doesn't really
hold up all that well, but the fact that this was
running on portable hardware in the year 2008, mobile games
at the time were laughable in comparison to what
you get with the PSP. And mind you, this was the PSP 2000. This has already been
around for a couple of years at this point. This video was sponsored by Stamps.com. As our business continues to grow, taking a bunch of trips to the post office can become a real hassle. That's why Stamps.com is all
about bringing these services of the US Postal Service and
UPS right to your computer, No lines, no traffic, no hassle. By just hopping on Stamps.com, you can schedule a
pickup while saving money with exclusive discounts
on postage and shipping. With over 20 years of experience, they offer discounts you
can't find anywhere else, like up to 86% off USPS and UPS rates. Not to mention their
Switch and Save feature, which allows you to
compare carriers and rates to ensure you're always
getting the best possible deal. (deep exhale) Whether you're
an office, a side hustle, Etsy shop, or doing
full-on warehouse shipping, it's as simple as using
your computer and printer. Within minutes you're up and running, printing official postage
for any letter or package. This holiday season, trade
late nights for silent nights and get started with Stamps.com today. Sign up at Stamps.com/AustinEvans for a special offer that
includes a four-week trial, plus free postage and
a free digital scale. No long-term commitments or contracts. Just go to Stamps.com/AustinEvans, and thank you to Stamps.com
for sponsoring this video. Moving on, we have the PSP 3000, which I have a boxed copy
that I actually purchased when it was still new in the store. And I'm not gonna open it,
'cause I'm gonna save it for a special occasion. But I have a already opened PSP 3000 here. Now this actually came
out only about a year after the PSP 2000, and the
main upgrade was the display. So in some markets, this is
actually called the PSP Bright, but regardless, you'll see
the screen is a whole lot, wow, that's literally two
seconds and you can see, this had basically all
the features you'd want. And I would say if you're
gonna play a PSP today, this is probably the one you wanna get. I still prefer how
comfortable the 1000 is. Look, the screen alone on the 3000 really does make a tremendous difference. And especially once you got into some of the later model
games like Gran Turismo, you kind of needed that extra ram, otherwise the load times
were incredibly slow. About to win this race. Everyone wanna watch me win a race? Look at that, look at that. That's what I call skill. - Mario Kart's looking really weird. - Can you go back to your corner? - I'm sorry, did you,
you're forgetting a console. - Oh, oh Jared, you're totally right. This stupid (censored) existed. Oh, I totally forgot. This is the PSP Street. The reason I forgot about it was because this was an
ultra-budget version of the PSP that was never launched in
the US, I don't think, right? - [Jared] No, this was only
launched in in PAL regions. - PAL. - [Jared] This wasn't even in Japan. - Who wants to live in a PAL region? 50 hertz, get outta here. - [Jared] As your subscriber
count drops by half. - Wait, can you watch my
videos in PAL regions? - [Jared] What do you
think you're just banned- - Boy oh boy, Europe, you all are great. (speaking in foreign language) - [Jared] Here, here, do one for all the British people out there. - Hallo. - [Jared] (laughing) For some reason that was the most offensive one. (both laughing) - The PSP Street, it was for the cool kids who didn't need those
extra features like wifi or a microphone. The cost cutting was all over the place. I mean, single mono speaker. You didn't even have the video out. You only had the headphone jack. All the buttons and switches feel worse. I mean, look at this. So compared to the PSP 1000, which has all these very
fantastic tactile buttons, you had all these shortcuts. This has like touch sensitive nonsense. Select start, that's it. I mean, uck, ehhh. This was like, oh we're gonna just use the last few sales outta PSP. - [Jared] Let's go. - Let's go with the PSP Go. The PSP Go launched in 2009. This was the world's first
fully digital console. Maybe there's some weird
obscure thing before it, but certainly the first
completely mainstream console. Now the other thing is, as you can see, especially compared to
the 1000, wildly smaller. I mean literally in every possible way because it had that sweet sidekick action where you could just pull it out, and then you would have not only your literally kind of small buttons, but also you have your
very small level nubbin. This was not wildly successful. Now there are certainly some downsides to shrinking the PSP so
much to create the Go. It had a smaller 3.8 display, which admittedly was the same resolution, so it was a little sharper. But everything certainly looks
a little bit small on here, a little crunchy, especially
with big boy hands. You got a like kinda
little that twisty action. Look at it compared to like
a phone of today, right? I mean you can just see just
how tiny this thing truly was. I mean this is a small Pixel 7, right? It's not even like one of
the big chunkiest phones. But the fact that entire
relied on digital games meant that while Sony
were living in the future, sadly that future has passed, 'cause the PSP store no longer with us. I don't think there are
any games on this, right? - [Jared] There are. - Are there? - [Jared] This is just what you had already downloaded on it. But there are games. - I'm glad that out of all
the games lost to time, this is the one that was saved. Honestly, this actually looks pretty good. Mostly because the art style very much kinda leans
into the PSP aesthetic. And sadly while this console
is basically no longer with us, 'cause you can't do anything. It really set the foundation
for the next generation, the PlayStation Life. - [Jared] You're missing one. You're not forgetting any consoles, but you are forgetting a phone. - Oooh, the Xperia Play. This my friends, is the PlayStation phone. No, not your stupid batphone
or your Galaxy S22 Ultra with a controller or whatever
nonsense, no, no, no. The Xperia Play is a device
that I actually made videos on back in the day. 'Cause this was an Android powered device that actually was really
designed for gaming. So not only do you have,
so your shoulder buttons, but you actually have a full
slide out range of controls, including two little touch pads. This had the full back compatibility with PlayStation 1 games. And they really kind of
marketed this as a phone that you could actually buy games that were specifically designed for it. Now, as you may have
guessed, 2011 and Android, not a great combination
when it comes to gaming, which was part of the reason
why most of these games were kind of bad. But you know what I could do? I could play the Sims 3. while not really supported
anymore, since it's Android, you actually can still like
download stuff on and side load. This was a proper gaming phone way before there was the
RAZR phone or the ROG phone. And it had Sony's backing, problem though, was that no one really bought it. Behold the glory, magnificence, and wonder of what I can honestly say
is the best PlayStation, portable handheld they ever made. The PS Vita 1000, this had so much. So keep in mind that we're coming from
the PSP and the PSP Go, and obviously they made a wide variety of these things, right? But they threw it all in the garbage and instead started
fresh with the PS Vita. First of all, significantly more powerful. It also had significantly better graphics and had a much better display. So I'm gonna fire this thing up. Behold, my friends, touch. The Vita had a wild interface. What this really did was
bring the PlayStation portable into the 2010, 2011 era. The competition was almost less. So things like the DS and the 3DS, and almost more so than
the devices in your pocket, which spoil alert, ultimately ended up winning over the Vita. Some of the things this
had a 544P display, there was OLED. And while this OLED might not match up to the OLED that's probably on the phone you're watching this video on right now. For 2011, the screen was phenomenal. The Vita really had a major emphasis on the idea of being an online console. Yes, the PSP had online games,
you could download them, you could play them against other people, but the Vita took it up a notch. Not only did it have terrific support with not only the PS3 and the PS4, including things like remote play. But on top of that with the
3G model, that was an option, You actually could play
completely remotely. On top of that, you also
had a camera on the back. You have a camera on the front. Dual analog sticks. Yeah, my friends dual,
count 'em, not one nub, two. The PS Vita also dropped the UMD in favor of the much more
modern PS Vita to Game Cards, which are pretty much exactly what you have on the Switch today. And on top of that, they
ditched the memory stick, mini micro, Duo Pro-
- Oh, so they switched it to microSD card? - Exactly. Except proprietary PS Vita memory cards that cost a hundred dollars. - [Jared] But they at
least put storage on it so that you don't have to buy. - No, you had to buy one pretty much. But it's fine because Sony
loves and cares about us and delivered a terrific,
a terrific experience. Not to spoil some of the other
things that are coming up, but this was by far the best model, because when they brought
this out, it was expensive, but it was worth it. But you know, what I can do, I could play one of the most unique games that ever hit the Vita, which is Tearaway. Tearaway is a game that does a great job of showing off just how terrific
this display looks today. It also uses not only the touchscreen, but also the rear touch pad. And look, you also have gyro controls. You have pretty much
everything you could need. And games like Tearaway did a terrific job of showing off not only the gameplay, but also this terrific OLED display. Alas, this is where the Vita started to take a little
bit of a darker turn, because while the hardware
was terrific, the graphics, pretty much everything was
great about the PS Vita. It was launching at a time in which more and more people were gaming on their
phones, or buying a 3DS for the very many Nintendo exclusives like Mario Kart and Mario Kart again, and Zelda and Mario Kart and Pokemon, - [Jared] And Mario Party. - And Mario Party, which meant
that Sony had to get creative because while the Vita was terrific, and again a phenomenal piece of hardware, it was expensive, and it did not immediately have that same
kind of explosive growth that the wide variety of PSPs did. Which meant that they
had to think a little bit outside the box, the PlayStation TV box. Okay, you hit my PSP 1000, I'm upset. The PlayStation TV, not to be confused with the PlayStation
TV that they launched, that was a TV with the PS2
built in, only in Japan, because that was a really
weird specific thing. Or, as Jared sprints and Naruto runs over to pick up our PlayStation 3D TV, which is a very different device. No, this is the PS Vita TV. And America's PlayStation
TV in most places, this was just called the Vita TV. So what Sony did was they took
all the guts of a PS Vita, instead shipped you a
PlayStation 3 controller and a little tiny box that
is all the way in the bottom. This my friends, is the PlayStation TV, and it's about as simple as it gets. So around back you had a few
ports, including your power. It was kind of a micro
console before micro consoles ever really took off, even
though they never really did. With this, you could play
almost every PS Vita game. - [Jared] Aaah. - And by extension, I said
almost, I'm getting to that. By extension, you could
play a lot of PS1 games, as well as PSP games, because most of those
were available digitally. The touch capabilities were
not available on the Vita, which meant that any game
that required a touchscreen, either didn't work, or straight
up wouldn't even launch on the PlayStation TV. So as you can see, once you actually get
the PS TV up and running, it does support 720P. And while most Vita games don't
look amazing on a display, you know they're meant to
be played on a four-inch or five- inch ,or whatever
size that handheld display is. But you'll see that a
lot of games work fine. The problem though is that
the unsupported titles are quite extensive. But this is technically
a handheld, adjacent ish. This is not, this is very much not good. The thing was the PS TV, while not quite as powerful
as something like the PS3, it had some performance. And the thing is, the Vita really had its sort of best life cycle with a lot of JRPGs and games. Because in Japan, this
was tremendously popular for many years, up to the point where it only really got discontinued a few years ago, at this point. Whereas I think in the US, they stopped selling the PS
Vita and the TV like 2017 or something, like was a long time ago. Fast forward to 2014, we've got the one and only
true hardware revision, which is the PS Vita 2000. The 2000 was a, I'll say
a better looking console. It was certainly slimmer, but also it lacked some features. Most notably, it dropped
this beautiful OLED display for a okay screen at best. The smaller size does
make a bigger difference. And I do really like,
especially this blue, right? This looks, I think terrific. So instead of that proprietary connector, they did bring in micro USB. You'd also had a little
bit of more storage. So I believe that's had 1
Gig of internal storage, not enough to really install games, but at least you didn't absolutely need one of those expensive Vita memory cards. The thing was though, it's very plasticy, it's very cheap. It also lost the 3G model. But you could tell this is Sony saying, "Hey, the Vita still
exists, please play me." This is Borderlands 2. First of all, that's a
solid 13 frames per second. Now Borderlands is certainly
a very stylized game, but this looks and runs
absolutely terrible. This is so impossible to control. It feels like there's like a
half second of lag between it. Look at this. And mind you, this was after I think, like three updates to improve performance. On top of that, if you wanted to say, I don't know, turn up the
brightness of the display. Certain games such as Borderlands
took up too much power. The Vita wouldn't handle it. It literally will not let
me max out the brightness because it's already
running it a 100 percent. Just look at them side by side. The bezels, the thinness, it was a pretty significant step up. But keep in mind, that
this is three years later, and at this point, the Vita's still alive, but it's approaching life support. This is sadly the last
Sony portable console that they have ever made. Sony treated the Vita like
they had treated the PSP, stuck in the old ways,
focusing on it being a console in a world that was
quickly becoming dominated by smartphone gaming. They had so many things going for them, it felt like they gave up on
it exactly the wrong time. And guess who came along with
what has ultimately turned out to be probably one of the
most popular portable consoles of all time. (sign snapping) In just a few short years, Nintendo was able to deliver a console, which outperformed the
Vita in performance, in screen quality, in games, and in sales in every possible way. They spent all this time building up, and if only they had given
a little bit more of a try. I truly believe that we would
be playing our portable PS4, the Vita 2.0, whatever
they wanted to call it, and it would be right up
there with the Switch. Well my friends, if we've
learned anything today, if you can't beat 'em, give up, and fail. That's the Sony motto. (car tires screeching)