(upbeat music) - 17 videos is a lot of videos. That's seven LTTs, a WAN Show, clips from the previous week's WAN Show, three TechLinks, three
ShortCircuits, two Techquickies and a Carpool Critics. So last week we didn't
shoot seven videos for LTT, we shot six and you said on Friday, that you're gonna come in on Monday, which you don't normally do
and shoot the seventh video. - But my kids are on spring break. - Now, Linus isn't in on Mondays. He spends Mondays with his kids, but we can still do some
work here at the office to chip away at this number. So now if you want to go
on vacation next week. - Yes? - We need to shoot more
than seven LTTs this week and it's already Tuesday. - Dear Lord, how am I gonna get a personal rig update for Luke? - This week the writer's
meeting didn't happen on Monday and we can't actually do
it on Tuesday morning, 'cause we have a guest
coming in for an LTT video, which is Luke. - Yeah, Luke's build could
take a while depending on if his case fits a radiator
or not and stuff like that. - [James] Okay. - (indistinct), just gonna do
a pickup for gold controller and then a sponsored Vizio ShortCircuit. - Not sure we'll do all
of those things today. - Sarah's Secret Shopper build. - Okay, we haven't had
a writer's meeting yet and only after writer's meeting
am I gonna know for sure, that that Sarah Secret Shopper video can happen on Wednesday. - Oh my God, The Ultimate
Camper Van thing, is that happening now? - He's gonna bring the van right outside and we're gonna shoot here,
so it shouldn't be too bad. - How is water-cooled PS5
still might not make it, oh my God, because Alex isn't even here. - [James] Maybe the
water-cooled PS5 can make it, I don't know yet. - But Alex is in Delta today and tomorrow. That gives him Thursday, Friday to water-cool a PlayStation five, like... - He's not there all day today anymore. (breathing heavily) - [James] So, Intel
Home Upgrade for David, we could possibly do on Friday. - [Linus] Oh let's do that. - But they take a whole day. It's only if we kick
ass leading up to Friday that we can have room for
that, otherwise we'll have to do some shorter easier
videos or something. - Uh-huh, can you guys
shoot videos while I'm gone? - It depends what they are. If they're all vlogs, that's
harder for our people to do than for you to do, so if we
have scripted stuff, then... - It's 10:15 in the morning on Tuesday and I already have a splitting headache. - Well, let's get you
shooting Luke's video and then we'll look at this in greater detail after the writer's meeting, after lunch. - And if I'm feeling bad, I can always caress my gold controller. Oh, yeah. - Hopefully Linus and Luke
are done shooting by, 11? - Let's just have a look here, okay? Well that can go right there, easy peasy. - It is now one o'clock
and they're still shooting. - Are we (indistinct) good enough? I mean, we can keep going,
but it almost doesn't matter. - We still haven't had writer's meeting. - It's gonna be cool regardless. - He's so foolish, (beep). - This is not a good start to the week. - Should I make sure this is
doable before I set you at it? - Um... - [Jono] I can see your screen. - [James] Yeah, I see your screen. Your face is way low. - Sorry, it's 'cause I'm eating. - [James] Install webcam at dinner table at home, please. - [Jono] Onlyfans. - The writer's meeting
is where leads come in, either from the writers themselves or from the business team
for sponsor projects. We evaluate them and then
we assign each writer, a project to work on for that week and it all gets put into Monday, so that anyone in the organization
can see it and follow along. - [Linus] As we finish going
through people's sections, feel free to sign out
and get back to work, 'cause I think we're a
little tight this week. I mean, this is work, but like... So... Who does not have something
they're turning in this week? - [James] I'm listed so
far with Anthony and Alex. - [Linus] Okay, Anthony's busy. Alex, do you need an easy
one to bang out here? - Uh, I am also quite busy. (beeping) The hardest part of working here is when something goes wrong and then
you suddenly just have to pull a video straight out of your butt. - [James] There's no
PlayStation happening? - It can or we can do
the silicon shortage one. Either way, I need to turn in a video because we have seven
uploads to do, per week. So I guess, do you want silicon shortage or do you want water-cooled PS5? PS5 would be more,
Linus time, most likely. - [Linus] Let's just
do a scripted voiceover as much as we can. - [Alex] Cool. - [Linus] Jackery Ultimate Camper Van. - [James] Colin, is The
Jackery Van shooting the morning or afternoon? - [Colin] Let's just look at the morning. - [Linus] Secret Shopper? - [Jessie] Sarah is really busy this week. It's possible that we
could film part of it, 'cause it would be a pretty long shoot. - [James] The entire shoot requires Linus? - [Jessie] The entire shoot
doesn't require Linus, just the first part of
it, to my understanding. - Well she's gonna need
some kind of lifeline, so as long as she has someone
else, then that'll work. - Vlogs are more difficult to edit than something that's scripted already. It takes a mental strain, where you have to just go home and-- Well, I just watch YouTube or
something and just zone out. - Yeah, we need to find a way to devlogify some of what we're doing
here, 'cause it is killing me. - [James] Scraps guys,
fully scripted videos. - I think we're doing more
scripted content these days, I could be wrong, am I wrong? - Okay, Jackery Ultimate, so this is five, seven, eight, theoretically, but a lot of these are question marks. Holy (beep). - Okay, so in the writer's
meeting, we found out that Jessie's a Secret
Shopper video with Sarah, may be not able to finish this week, because Sarah won't have time, but... Sarah. Am I allowed to touch these? - Are you free tomorrow
morning to do that? First thing, 9/9:30? - And I've been told
that you're super busy, so just want to do maybe part of it and then next week do another part of it. - You basically won't interact with Linus during the shoot at all. - Although I don't think it's
gonna save us this week unless you do kind of finish
the whole video tomorrow. Yeah, which is probably
just not gonna happen. - My plan sucks! (grunting) So Ed's not here today. Normally, I don't need to
directly talk to the shooters. I talk to Ed and talks to
shooters, but he's not here. So, let's go talk to Brandon. - Ed and James have to figure out how everything's going to go together and how it's going to get uploaded. Ed's the one that has to tell the editor, hey, you get to work late,
have fun and stuff like that. - Hey Brandon. - Are you aware of Jessie's
Secret Shopper shoot with Sarah? - So my question to you is, where can we shoot this tomorrow morning, like 9:30 to lunch? - The two parts are different
enough that they use two sets, so it's not like you're
gonna have to set one up-- - Yeah, no hot set, leave
it set up kind of deal. - I think we should put in the study nook and maybe we'll just reuse
that for (indistinct)'s video. - All right cool, thanks. (sighs) (intense music) - If I had to pick the
most demanding individual. it would definitely be Linus because he often scripts the system, he'll just run in and
take whatever he needs. - So it's Wednesday morning
and so far we've shot one LTT. Wednesday is the day that Linus has his Weekly Merch Meetings, which are scheduled from
9:30-11, a good chunk of the day, but today, I got a
message from Linus saying, I'm gonna be late, I have an impromptu meeting with this
construction company at 9:30. That's gonna push back the Merch Meeting and he has a call at 10:30 with the city. (metal clank) I don't know what we're gonna do, man. Okay, he's pulling in, half
an hour behind schedule. Hopefully the Merch Meeting
is satisfied with that, because if we have to do
another meeting tomorrow, then we'll really be screwed. - So back to the mock-up then. So basically, it'll have
gold printing on here. - Yeah, it's pretty bulky. - Okay, so it's quarter to noon and Linus is finally sitting down to do the first Script Review of the week. Script Review is what happens when the writer is
finished writing a script, but before we shoot it,
they sit down with Linus and go through the
whole script looking for factual accuracy, flow. Is it an exciting video, does it have a good intro
that's gonna hook you guys? All that kind of stuff. Once it's done, we switch
the status of that item to, Script Reviewed and
that triggers an action for our friend, Geoff, to go
in, add sponsors to the script. And then when he's done that, put it onto the teleprompter
so we can shoot. (door latch closes) Once a script is reviewed,
has sponsors on it and is on the teleprompter. The writer will come downstairs
and work with the shooters to complete this, the
Ready-to-shoot Checklist. This thing exists
because Linus was sick of coming down to shoot and finding out they weren't actually ready for him. - Once that's done and only then, you can send a notification to Linus saying that, the video is
actually ready to shoot and he or whatever host there is, will come to the set
and do the talky talky. Okay, I just got a
notification saying that, the Script Review is done and Linus is out of the bathroom now, so we can attack him. So buddy, how bad do you
wanna eat lunch today? - You've lost your lunch privileges. (laughing) All right, fine, have your lunch. - Now everybody knows LTT is
famous for its sponsor, Segues. We don't always get to do the sponsor read in the video naturally,
but when that happens, we film them like this
210314 Pre-roll keysight. (film slate clapping) (plastic thud) Didn't I shoot this? - We call it sponsor pickups and that's what Linus
is gonna do right now. It's an annoying thing,
that's in his schedule, that doesn't help me fulfill my goals. - This is gonna be interesting. I have never taught myself
how to build a PC before. MSI looks good, but it's also red. (laughing) And I don't want to read graphics. - How long did that take? - Cool, second question. When will you have time
to do the second segment? - So definitely not tomorrow morning. - Okay... (upbeat music) - See you later. (intense music) You're being very proactive, it's 9:30, Linus has just got here and
you're already Script Reviewing. That is exactly what we
need to succeed today, 'cause we need to shoot
three videos today. So Colin, is there gonna be
a time after this meeting, between being ready to shoot, is there gonna be a little
window of time there? - Okay, I'm gonna use that time to have a meeting with
Linus and then after that, hopefully we can do some Script Reviews, Alice wants a Script
Review this afternoon. I actually don't know
Anthony's readiness level yet. Well, ideally, we can shoot
all three of these today, so that we have a full day tomorrow to do David's Intel Home Upgrade. - Bye-bye. - Another thing to think about is how all those videos
we're gonna make in a week, are distributed throughout that week, because we can't make 17
or 18 videos in one day. So a Gantt chart is a good tool for that. Obviously, there's videos that never move, TechLinked is always
Monday, Wednesday, Friday, but things like the LTTs, it's way better to spread them out, we can't really do more
than two in a day, reliably. - It's actually a good thing to shoot a bunch of videos all at once, try to shoot three or four videos in a day and then allow for Linus
to go do something else. It doesn't actually cause problems for the editing department, because then we just
have a bunch of videos and they can be divvied
out to individual people. - This week, I've got a
stack of three on Thursday, even though we try to avoid
this, a lot of the time a writer starts a project on Monday and is ready to shoot it
on Thursday or Friday. So it's pretty typical to
see a stack on Thursday. - It's actually preferable
to have a mound of videos, that you can just chip
off and do one at a time, selectively, rather than
having them slowly come in one at a time and somebody has to do them, because there's nothing else to do. - I think this is manageable, but if you can shoot two on Monday, the rest of the week is so much easier. So today Linus is doing a
thing that he does once a week, which is called, Floatplane lunch, so here I have on the phone, Luke. Luke, what is Floatplane lunch? - We have a call usually around lunchtime. We talk about Floatplane. He's the CEO of Floatplane,
but he doesn't really see the day-to-day interactions
of how it works. If he has any input, he can
throw it on us at that time. Throw in some last minute changes, which you just know developers love and just make sure that he's abreast of what's actually
going on at the company. - I know he likes breasts. (laughing) - Yeah, perfect. (laughing) - All right. - Bye.
- Bye. (laughing) - I gave you a lot of
clicks to end the meeting. - Before we had management
involved, it was just chaos. (laughing) - Our ability to communicate
is so much better now. Back in the old days we just used Excel to track all our projects, which was great when
there was three us, but... - Nobody knew what anybody was doing. Nobody knew what was finished. Like, oh no, we need
pickup shots on this video, did anybody get them? I don't know, do you know? I don't know, just talk to this person. They're out of the office. - But, with monday.com, it doesn't matter if you're
on your parents' computer or pulled over on the side
of the road using your phone. - Things have actually
been going pretty smoothly, all things considered. Like when something's gone
bad, it's been way less bad. - Everyone's updating their
projects, all at one place. (laughing) (intense music) - [Director] Camera rolling,
is test camera rolling? - Yes.
- [Cameraman] Yep. - We're in the home
stretch now, it's Friday and as you know, Linus is at
David's house in Vancouver doing his Intel Extreme Home Upgrade, but we do have a couple issues today. The fact that the Intel
Home Extreme Upgrade is happening for David, who's a shooter. It means that we only have
one shooter left over, 'cause we only have
Andy, Brandon and David and then Brandon is actually offsite, doing the B-roll for
that van upgrade video. They're out in the woods setting
up solar panels and stuff, so we don't have any shooters here that are our normal shooters. So not a lot is gonna get shot
here today, it's a challenge. So what are the writers doing instead? Well, it's Friday, which
means it's WAN Show day and the host of the WAN Show don't just go off the top of their heads, they have notes in the WAN doc. So, every Friday at about 10 a.m., a notification comes up
automatically from monday.com, that says, hey, it's WAN SCRUM and that tells every writer to go and contribute one or two stories
and then I go and look over it and I reorder the stories
for most interesting, to least interesting. And then when the hosts get
there at hopefully, 4:30 and not an hour and a half
late, it's an easy, smooth show, but I have a feeling
it's gonna be late today. - This is gonna be tough, I've got five hours to
fix this water-cooling and build a completely
separate water-cooled system. The bar is gonna be pretty low here. - Okay, so I haven't heard
from Linus or David or Andy all day, even though I've messaged them. It's currently 4:30, which is when the WAN
Show supposed to start. My guess is that they're
scrambling to finish and he hasn't even left
Vancouver, so I'm gonna call 'em. Hopefully, someone over there answers. - Okay, bye. Did you hear the despair in his voice? (laughing maniacally) (beep) Arg! And so then the question becomes, do we just push WAN Show
to be super, super late or get someone else to
co-host the WAN Show? Which Alex actually volunteered to do, so he walked down here with his stuff and then he turned around
and came back and said, apparently it's gonna be a
7:30, three hours late WAN Show. So we'll see if people want to watch that. (car sensor beeping) (upbeat electrical music) - Hey, how are you all
doing ladies and gentlemen? I hope you're having a
wonderful Friday night or-- Well, it could be Saturday
morning by this point, we're a little late, but I assure you it was for a very good reason. We had the one and only
David Gauthier, one of our-- - Huge thanks the monday.com
for sponsoring this video. If you want to learn more about how their software can help your team, check out the link below. (upbeat electronic music)