This is my friend Jade, creator of the Up and 
Atom channel. She makes these incredible math   and physics explainers that I absolutely love, 
and she recently got the opportunity to visit   ITER (eater) in France. You may have seen 
this place in the news: 35 nations working   together to build an enormous, industrial-scale 
nuclear fusion reactor. The size of the project   is mind-boggling. It’s been under construction 
since 2013, and… I like construction. So, when   Jade and I were chatting about her tour, she said, 
“Why don’t you just make a video about it too?!” If everything goes to plan, ITER’s tokamak 
reactor will house plasma at temperatures   in the hundreds of millions of degrees, ten to 
twenty times hotter than the center of the sun,   hopefully paving the way for an entirely 
new form of electricity generation. I   don’t know much about superconducting coils or 
cyclotron resonance heating or breeder blankets,   but I do know it takes a lot of earthwork 
and steel and concrete to build the biggest   nuclear fusion reactor on earth. So let me 
give you the civil engineer’s tour of what   might be the most complicated science 
experiment in human history. I’m Grady, And I’m Jade, and this is Practical Engineering. 
Today we’re exploring the ITER megaproject. I was fairly new to fusion when I went to 
visit, and although I'm still no expert,   I still felt I should explain it rather than 
let a civil engineer. Before we dive into the   mechanics. Here's a question. Why is the world so 
interested in nuclear fusion? Basically, it comes   down to the huge potential payoff. If we could 
harness the power of nuclear fusion here on Earth. It would be a way more powerful energy source 
than fossil fuels, without the environmental   baggage. This water bottle full of seawater plus 
one gram of lithium could provide electricity   to a family of four for a whole year. Unlike 
nuclear fission, there's no long lived waste   and no chance of nuclear meltdowns. It's a 
clean, sustainable and powerful energy source. Some scientists 
go so far as to say that commercial nuclear   fusion is the next step for humanity. That's 
exactly what ITER, which translates to the way   in Latin aims to do. To nail down the technologies 
needed for a fully functioning commercial fusion   reactor. For you to get an idea of how ambitious 
their goal is, they plan to import 50 megawatts   of thermal power and get out 500 megawatts of 
fusion power, a gain of ten in fusion talk.  Nothing close to this has ever been achieved 
or even attempted in fusion history. So how   are they going to do it? Right in here. "So 
this is where the Tokamak is going to be   built?" This is the Tokamak pit where ITER 
is assembling the largest nuclear fusion   device in the world, a giant tokamak. Here's 
a man for comparison. It's going to be huge. A tokamak is a nuclear fusion machine that works 
by magnetic confinement. It will hold about 840   cubic meters of piping hot plasma. Why plasma? 
Plasma is what the sun is primarily made of.   And it has the perfect conditions for fusion. 
To get fusion started in the ITER tokamak,   two isotopes of hydrogen, deuterium and tritium 
are pumped into a large donut shaped chamber. This is just one of the six vessels that will 
make up the chamber. The fuel is heated to   temperatures of up to 150 million degrees 
celsius. When they fuse, the energy they   unleash is of epic proportions. But here's a 
question for you engineers. How is it possible   to contain so much plasma? No regular material 
can withstand those kinds of insane temperatures. Imagine trying to hold onto a piece of the 
sun. These giant magnets produce magnetic   fields of almost 12 tesla, over 200,000 times 
stronger than Earth's magnetic fields. Plasma   is electrically charged. And just like 
iron filings align with magnetic fields,   so does plasma. How cool is that? But 
how does this fusion stuff actually   lead to electricity? ITER itself will 
not actually produce any electricity. It's our learning ground, an 
experimental arena to fine   tune how a real reactor might operate. 
But in a real reactor, the walls of the   tokamak will be filled with cooling fluid. 
When the deuterium and tritium atoms fuse,   they release a neutron and a helium atom. 
About 80% of the energy released is carried   by the neutrons and being electrically neutral, 
they pass straight through the magnetic field. When these high energy neutrons strike 
the tokamak walls, they heat up the fluid,   turning it into steam. Then, just like a regular 
power plant, the steam will spin turbines,   which will generate electricity. But how 
will ITER heat the plasma to such insane   temperatures? And when can we expect 
commercial nuclear fusion to get off the   ground? Check out my video after you've 
finished watching Grady's and find out. Jade’s video goes into a lot more of the 
groundbreaking science at ITER, but all that   science requires a lot of actual breaking ground.  This is a bird’s eye view of the whole facility,   and this is where the Tokamak lives. So if all 
the nuclear fusion is going to happen in there,   what are all these other buildings and 
structures for? Fortunately, there’s a   civil engineer there in France amongst all the 
technicians and scientists who knows the answer,   and I was lucky enough to chat with him. This 
is Laurent Patisson, the civil engineering and   interface section leader at ITER, and he’s 
been there almost since the very beginning,   including taking delivery of some 
truly massive pieces of equipment. Laurent walked me through the whole campus, 
and gave me an overview of how construction   is progressing across the facility. Many of those 
big deliveries get stored in one of the many tents   scattered around the site until they’re ready to 
be installed, and then onto one of the various   buildings. For example, the poloidal field coils 
that form superconducting magnets to help shape   and contain the plasma in the reactor are just too 
big to be completed offsite and shipped to ITER,   so instead, they built a manufacturing facility 
right on campus in this long building on the south   side. Similarly, the cryostat workshop was built 
to assemble the massive, vacuum-tight structure   that will surround the reactor and magnets. 
The cryostat parts, the poloidal field coils,   and lots of other truly large pieces of equipment 
destined for the Tokamak itself are then moved to   the adjacent assembly hall as needed. Pretty much 
every part of the Tokamak reactor is not only huge   but sensitive to environmental conditions too, 
so this building makes it possible to protect,   stage, assemble and install each one without 
having to worry about temperature or weather. That’s about 21 stories tall and longer (and wider) than 
an American football field, end zones  included! And maybe the most critical part of the 
whole building is what runs along the top of it. These two bridge cranes combine to become 
one of the largest cranes in the world with   a combined capacity of 1500 tonnes needed 
to assemble all the parts of the tokamak.   And everything has been tested and tested 
before each critical lift operation happens   with dummy loads before they do the real 
thing. But material and equipment aren’t   the only things flowing through this project 
site. There’s also a lot of electricity.   Imagine what your utility bill would be 
if your toaster got as hot as the sun! ITER connects to the European power grid from 
a 400 kilovolt transmission line. During peak   periods of plasma production, the facility 
may need upwards of 600 megawatts! That’s   the capacity of a small nuclear power plant. 
Obviously you can’t just turn the reactor on   with a flip of a switch. ITER has to coordinate 
with the power grid manager to carefully time   the huge power draws with surrounding power 
plants to make sure it doesn’t cause brownouts   or surges on the grid. The 400 kV line feeds 
a large switchyard and substation on the ITER   campus. Electricity is stepped down to a 
lower voltage using transformers. Then it   flows through busbars, cables, and breakers to 
feed all the various buildings and equipment. Like many electronic devices, the superconducting 
magnets that surround the tokamak run on direct   current, DC. So the AC power from the grid has 
to be rectified. For a phone or a flashlight,   an AC to DC converter looks like this. But 
at ITER, it takes up two full buildings. The   magnet power converter buildings have enormous 
rectifiers dedicated to each one of the magnet   systems. Once energized, those magnets can 
collectively store upwards of 50 gigajoues   of energy in their fields, though, so you 
also need a way to quickly get rid of that   energy if the magnets lose superconductivity 
(called a quench). Fast discharge units,   located in this building, allow ITER to 
dissipate that stored energy as heat in   a matter of seconds. There are also a lot of 
critical safety systems and parts to maintaining   the expensive and delicate equipment at 
ITER that require power 24/7/365. So,   there are two huge diesel generators that can 
provide backup power in case the grid goes down. The flow of electricity is closely tied to the 
flow of heat through all the parts of ITER. Really   the whole thing is an experiment in heat, and 
there are so many ways things are being warmed   or cooled throughout the campus. Of course, you 
have heating, ventilation, and air conditioning   in all the buildings, and it’s not just for the 
comfort of the people working in them. Even tiny   temperature swings can affect the size of these 
huge components, complicating the assembly. And it’s not just temperature, but 
humidity and cleanliness as well. So,   ITER has a robust ventilation and chilling 
system located in the site services building   along with a lot of the other industrial 
support systems like air compressors,   water treatment, pipes, pumps, and more. Heat is also important for the electromagnets, 
which have to be cooled to cryogenic temperatures   so they act as superconductors. That’s made 
possible by the Cryoplant, a soccer-field-sized   installation of helium refrigerators, liquid 
nitrogen compressors, cold boxes, and tanks that   keep the various parts of the tokomak supercool 
during operation. But, although some parts of   the machine have to be cryogenically cooled, to 
create nuclear fusion, you need to heat the plasma   to incredible temperatures, and there’s three 
external heating systems at ITER. One, called   neutral beam injection, fires particles into the 
plasma where they collide and transfer energy.   The other two, ion and electron cyclotron heating 
(say that three times fast), use radio waves, like   huge microwave ovens. Those systems are located in 
the RF Heating building near the Tokamak complex. And then there’s the matter of the heat output. 
The whole point of exploring nuclear fusion is   to use it as an energy source, to convert 
tiny amounts of tritium and deuterim into   copious amounts of heat. ITER’s goal is to 
produce a Q of ten, to get ten times as much   thermal energy out as it puts into the reactor. 
But there’s no electrical generator on site. In   a commercial fusion facility, you would need 
to convert that output heat to electricity,   probably using steam generators like typical 
nuclear fission plants. That part of the   process is pretty well understood, so it’s 
not part of this research facility. Instead,   ITER needs a way to dissipate all that heat energy 
they hope the fusion will create. That’s the job   of the water cooling system and the enormous 
cooling tower nearby. Water is circulated   around the tokomak and then to the tower where 
it can reject all that heat into the atmosphere. That brings us back to where we started, 
the Tokamak complex itself. That machine,   once its finished, will weigh an astounding 23,000 
tonnes, more than most freight trains. And with   all the heating and cooling going on, there are 
some serious challenges in just holding the thing   up. As the tokomak is cooled cryogenically, it 
shrinks, but the building stays the same size. And, because, you know, this is an actual 
nuclear reactor, it has to follow all the   safety regulations of any nuclear power plant. No 
one will be inside the Tokamak complex when it’s   running. They’ll be nearby in a separate control 
building, physically distant from the reactor.   And the complex itself has been engineered 
to withstand a host of disastrous conditions,   from floods to plane crashes to explosions on the 
nearby highway. Like all nuclear power plants,   it has a containment structure to 
confine any fusion products that   might be released into the atmosphere in 
the event of an accident. And that’s made   using a special concrete formula developed 
over two years just for this application   that contains extra heavy aggregate and 
boron to provide radioactive shielding. And, it’s not just thermal movement 
that the designers planned for,   but seismic movement too. An earthquake could 
ruin the entire structure in an instant if   the Tokamak was violently shaken, 
so engineers had to get creative. Big thanks to the folks at ITER for taking 
the time to help me understand all this. I   only had time to scratch the surface of all the 
incredible engineering involved. And, go check   out Jade’s video to learn more about this awesome 
project; she actually got to be inside some of   the buildings we showed. The civil engineering at 
the Tokamak building just wrapped up, but there’s   a long way to go before fusion experiments 
start. Like all ambitious projects, this one   has struggled through its share of setbacks and 
iterations. But with 10 times the plasma volume   of any fusion reactor operating today, they’re 
hoping to eventually demonstrate the potential   for fusion as a viable source of energy. And 
that might eventually change the world. Only   time will tell if it happens, but it’s exciting 
right now to see countries across the world   collaborating on such a grand scale to invest in 
the long-term future of energy infrastructure. Innovation in energy infrastructure is one of 
those topics that you can understand from wildly   different perspectives, depending on where you 
get your news from. Turns out there’s a lot of   ways to frame any story about nuclear power 
or oil and gas production or climate change,   and online algorithms are really good 
at giving you just the news that you’re   most likely to agree with already. Today’s 
sponsor, Ground News, aims to help you break   out of your bubble and get a well-rounded view 
of important issues. Here’s a perfect example: This story about a recent grant program for 
hydrogen power hubs was covered by over 100   sources, many that lean left or center and a 
few that lean right. The way each outlet framed   the story varies quite a bit. Just looking at the 
various headlines for the story, you start to get   a better picture of all the issues that surround 
it. On the left, it’s a bigger focus on “clean”   energy and the grants being an achievement 
for the current administration. On the right,   there’s more about how the grants will 
generate private investment and jobs. These   quick visual breakdowns combine ratings from 
independent news monitoring organizations to   help clarify any political bias, factuality, 
and the range of outlets covering the story. Even researching an episode like this 
on ITER can be frustrating because it’s   hard to separate the facts from the biases. And 
it’s my responsibility to make sure I’m sharing   as balanced a perspective on the issues and 
projects in my videos as I can with you. So,   being able to instantly compare sources across 
the political spectrum like this is a huge   help to me. I don’t think we’ll ever get away 
from biases in reporting, but reading the same   story from different angles gives me context 
and insights that would be harder to come by   just using my typical sources. Ground News makes 
me feel more confident that I’m not living in a   bubble controlled by algorithms that only try to 
show me what I want to see. And they’re offering a   huge discount right now if you use my link in the 
description. Subscribe to get a more transparent   media landscape using my link ground dot news 
slash practicalengineering for 40% off unlimited   access to their app, website, and newsletters 
for just $5 a month. That ends on November 30,   so make sure you catch it before it’s gone. Thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think!