Recently, I watched a video by a popular YouTube 
channel about the economy of the Soviet Union.   I have long been interested in how Soviet 
society worked. But sadly that particular   video failed to scratch the itch. It felt a bit 
watered down. So I figured I would make my own. For generations, the Soviet Union grew faster 
than every other developing country except one.   But once that strategy ran its course, the Soviets 
failed to adapt and things fell apart. It is a   challenge that every country has to face at one 
time or another in the process of its development. In this video, I want to look at the 
rise and decline of the Soviet Economy. Before we get started, I want to note. 
This is not a video about the breakup   of the Soviet Union. The two topics are 
somewhat linked, but it would take another   video to go through all the political 
observations and theory from historians. Not to mention that the Chinese have their own 
theories on the matter too. It is a whole rabbit   hole. This video is going to be long enough 
as it is, so let us just talk about money. Before we can talk about the 
economy of the Soviet Union,   we need to look at the economy of the country 
that came before it: the Russian Empire. In 1913, the Russian Empire was the world's 
biggest country and ranked third in population   after China and India. But that was pretty much 
all that distinguished Russia from everyone else. The country's population were mostly poor and 
agricultural like the rest of the world average.   Their incomes were on par with 
the Japanese and Latin Americans.   Above those living in Africa, India and 
China, but far behind the rest of Europe. Then came World War I. An all-consuming total 
war that strained even the richest of Europe's   empires. The United Kingdom spent 40% of its 
GDP on the war. France, 50%. And Germany, 60%. And more than just being the biggest market 
buyer, governments intervened to control   resources and output so that producers 
can guarantee supply to the war effort.   This was the command economy 
before the command economy existed. The war devastated the Russian Empire. National 
income fell 80% from what it had been before the   war. The government had a hard time feeding 
its 9 million soldiers, because drafting men   and horses to the front meant that they were 
not at their farms farming. Shortages forced   the Russians to borrow foreign currency and 
print money so to import supplies from abroad. When real production cannot keep 
up with the growing money supply,   inflation happens. Inflation rose 
to 6% a month from 1916 to 1917. That sounds bad. And it was. But truth of the 
matter is that things sucked quite badly for   everyone back then. At the time of the Bolshevik 
takeover in 1917, the economic situation sucked,   but was not notably worse than what 
everyone else was going through. The first year after the assumption of power, 
the Bolshevik government attempted to establish   a command economy in line with their ideological 
goals. They confiscated surplus food supply,   nationalized industry, and seized the 
estates of both the Church and aristocracy. But in the second half of 1918, a 
group of anti-revolutionary forces,   the Whites, banded together in an 
uprising against the government. Various foreign countries intervened 
on both sides, worsening the conflict. What followed was a brutal civil war that lasted 
for over 5 years and killed millions of people. Coming so soon after World War I, the 
Russian Civil War annihilated infrastructure,   transportation networks and industry. Incomes fell back to levels not seen since the 
pre-modern era: Around $600 in today's dollars.   Famine and government failure abounded. In 1921, Lenin announced a New Economic Policy 
that sought to restore farmers' incentive to   produce agriculture. Amongst other things it 
replaced the seizing of all surplus goods with   a progressive tax. Lenin was essentially backing 
off his attempt to create a command economy. This policy shift spurred relief. 
Things got off to a bumpy start.   There was yet another harvest failure 
and a famine. But after a year,   farms were producing again. Small businesses and 
markets were sprouting up in the countryside.   The economy began to recover from the 
devastating effects of the Great War. By 1928, Stalin had defeated his enemies 
on the Left and was working to establish   himself as the undisputed party central. That 
year, he discarded Lenin's New Economic Policy   and tried for the second time to establish the 
command economy with the first Five-Year Plan. At this time, you could describe the 
Soviet Union's economy as being starved   of capital (like infrastructure and industrial 
factories), but with plenty of labor. Stalin   set into motion the defining strategy that 
would drive Soviet growth for a generation:   Heavy capital investment to build up capital. These capital investments would go 
into the production of producing goods:   Machinery, factories, power stations, 
railways and other items of heavy industry.   Things that helped make other things. These goods helped produce more 
steel, electricity and machinery   which were reinvested into yet even more steel, 
electricity and machinery. A feedback loop! Another major reason that the 
Soviet Union tried again to   institute the command economy was 
that it was heavily militarized.   The Soviets faced hostility from foreign nations 
from the very beginning of its existence.   The Allied nations actively intervened in the 
Russian Civil War on the side of the White Army.   The Soviets did not trust the West and that 
pushed their economy in a certain direction. The Soviet military's outsized influence in the 
Soviet Union will have significant consequences.   It forced the Soviet economy to build tanks,   guns, aircraft, explosives, and other 
items of militarized heavy industry. This "permanent war economy" 
threw a veil of state secrecy over   economic central planning and prevented open, 
transparent discussion. And like a guy who only   lifts with his right arm, it sucked away 
resources from the rest of the economy. Stalin's drive pushed the investment 
rate from 8% in 1928 to 20%   in the mid-1930s. Massive government investment 
became a cornerstone of the country’s economy.   The whole country was oriented towards this 
goal. The productivity of this investment varies. Some genuinely helped but there was 
a lot of wasteful, unproductive,   and impractical infrastructure built. Building 
the biggest dams in the world for the sake of   economic output while the people go hungry due to 
a lack of food production has questionable value. One major event throughout this time period 
was collectivization, the replacement of   individual peasant farms with collective ones. 
Peasants lost their land, grain, and livestock. Those who resisted were exiled or executed. 
Famines broke out in Ukraine, Kazakhstan,   and Siberia. It sucked. The significant human   impact and loss demands that we 
at least briefly mention it here. Collectivization and the famines that 
resulted from it cost the lives of millions,   yet I would argue had little impact on the Soviet 
Union's economic outcomes. It did spur people to   migrate from the countryside into the city to 
take jobs in the industrial sector, fueling the   investment drive. But I can’t really say that that 
outweighs the famines, oppression and what not. It is more likely than not that collectivization 
damaged the economy's other growth engines - the   ones that were actually working. That’s the 
cruelty of the whole thing. My personal view   is that the economy of the Soviet Union would 
have been better off without collectivization.   After all, look at China's 
urbanization drive in the 90s.   But both sides continue to debate the 
issue and it remains controversial. But back to the numbers, as best as we might have 
them. From 1928 to 1970, gross national product   rose in excess of 5% a year. A big portion of 
this can be attributed to the accumulation of   capital - the most critical growth engine. But 
agriculture and overall productivity rose too. Out of all the countries' 
in its starting peer-group,   only Japan would grow faster and 
get richer than the Soviet Union. World War II and the years that followed 
would see the peak of the heavy industrial   "producer goods" production cycle. But 
as the country moved into the 1960s,   the government sought to reorient the economy 
towards the production of consumer goods. Nikita Khrushchev declared in 1956: > Now that we possess a powerful heavy industry 
developed in every respect, we are in the position   to promote rapidly the production of both 
the means of production and consumer goods The Soviet high leadership knew that 
their right arm was way too overworked   and they needed to pump with their 
left. That is for several reasons. First, the engines that drove the Soviet 
economy for so long were starting to sputter.   When Stalin began his drive, there 
was substantial unemployment in   the agricultural sector. A shortage 
of capital and a surplus of labor. Simply by moving those unemployed people (and 
later, women) into the industrial workforce,   they became more productive and the economy grew. But some time in the 1950s, that 
agricultural unemployment situation   ended. All the laborers had been moved out of 
the farms into the factories. And virtually all   the women had been moved into the workforce - 
51% of the Soviet workforce in 1973 were women. The old heavy industry growth model stopped 
working and the Soviet Union realized that they   had little to replace it to drive future growth. 
Except one thing but we will get to that later. Out in the agricultural space, the farms were 
now underperforming from under-investment and   bad management - yields were worse than 
in any other European country. This had   forced the Soviet Union to invest capital 
resources into mechanization drives and   other modernizations to try and produce enough 
food to feed the burgeoning urban populations. Furthermore, it is a bit ironic 
to say this, but the Soviet Union,   the biggest country in the world, 
had relatively little farmable land.   This is especially in comparison 
to the United States bread basket.   The government attempted to create new fertile 
farmlands, but this effect was limited. In fact, this turned out to be a huge waste. 
Short-term thinking to meet short term   output goals. The most infamous example 
would be the draining of the Aral Sea,   a lake shared by Kazakhstan 
and Uzbekistan, to grow cotton. Once the fourth largest body of water, 
the sea shrank and died from inefficient   irrigation, the overuse of fertilizer, and 
a lack of intelligent agricultural methods.   The Aral Sea is today an environmental disaster. In the industrial factories, Soviet equipment was 
far behind the cutting edge and getting older by   the second. The Soviets were great at putting 
new capital equipment into the factories. They   were not as good as retiring and replacing it. 
In 1970, 28% of all equipment was older than   10 years old. By 1980 that number would be 34%. 
The average piece of equipment was 8-9 years old. There were a couple reasons for this. First 
was that doing so would often required a   work stoppage. For plant managers, that risked 
the potential of missing a production quota,   a difficult prospect. When they did risk it,   they often tried to refurbish the existing 
equipment rather than starting from scratch.   A major drive in the 60s to refurbish 
everything was a disastrous waste. Japan would take the other path when building 
up their steel industry after the war:   Starting over from scratch. It worked. By 1985   the country was the most efficient 
steel making country in the world. The second reason why the Soviets 
never upgraded their equipment.   Nothing more technologically advanced was 
made available to them. The Soviet Union   employed fantastic minds and pioneered 
incredible sciences and technologies.   I want to do a future video about 
their advancements in computer chips. And they landed on Venus for Pete’s sake! One does not simply land on the surface of Venus. The problem was that almost all of 
those advancements happened within   the military and government sector. 
That meant that it was a state secret   and did not see the light of day in the 
civilian sector until after many years. One of the better things about the American 
military-industrial complex was the technology   spillover effect. New technologies and ideas 
come out of the government and are released   to private entities who do something cool with 
it. GPS and the internet are famous examples. This never happened in the Soviet 
Union, being an economy centered on   military capacity build up. The military 
only tightened its grip on the economy as   foreign tensions rose throughout the 1980s 
with Afghanistan and the rise of Reagan. It   is why that a massive technological 
gap opened up between the US and the   USSR's civilian sectors despite the USSR’s 
seemingly advanced science capabilities. When Soviet urbanites wanted to 
buy and experience nice things   (food, technology, and more), 
they imported it from the West.   This meant they needed to get their hands on 
hard currency. From where it can be found? So with the agricultural, industrial and 
consumption goods sectors all struggling,   the government turned to the only thing 
that really seemed to have worked:   Natural resources. The Soviet Union in its 
final years fell into a deep resource trap. The Soviet Union was blessed with 
amazing amounts of natural resources.   Massive oil and gas fields. Rich iron ore and coal 
mines. But by the 1970s the ore mines were aging.   The government, dependent on the hard 
capital these exports brought to them,   threw good money after bad to dig deeper 
and get more out of these dying mines. In the case of the oil and gas fields, external 
forces delayed the reckoning a bit. In 1973,   the Organization of Arab Petroleum 
Exporting Countries launched an oil   embargo of countries believed to support 
Israel. Oil went from $3 to $12 a barrel. The Soviet Union lucked out in being 
one of the few big oil suppliers still   able to sell to the embargoed countries. 
They had switched to using natural gas   so that they may have the opportunity 
to export its oil for hard currency.   Soviet exports to the West grew 26% from 1970 
to 1980 and a big portion of that was oil. But by then, those oil fields were already 
losing their productivity. From 1975 to 1985,   oil investment costs went from 28% to 39% 
of the total Soviet investment budget.   Employment likewise soared by 25%. Yet the actual 
output of oil fell by 21%. This was a disaster. Again, same as with the ore mines, the 
Soviet economy found itself trapped.   It used the hard currency it got from selling oil 
to fund its imports of food and consumer goods.   This was not sustainable and everyone knew it. Yet the oil was costing so much money to 
get out of the ground that it sucked away   resources that could have been used to improve 
the agricultural and domestic consumer industries. But as long as oil prices stayed high, 
then the economy can limp on. If prices   in fact went higher, then there might be enough 
savings to invest and actually escape the trap. If oil prices crashed though, then all bets 
were off. Which is what exactly happened   a few years later when the Saudis decided to 
end the embargo and return to the oil market,   kicking off the 1980s oil glut. The glut and a mini-recession together would 
crash the price of oil from a high of $40 in 1979   to under $10. This would spell the beginning 
of the end for the Soviet economy. Without   sufficient foreign currency income to fund its 
operations, the economy essentially went bankrupt. The 20 minute video that I watched on 
the Soviet economy framed it as a flawed,   contradictory system that did not 
understand proper economic principles.   I find that a bit facetious. After all, 
the Soviet Union survived for 75 years.   What was happening when the Soviets were fighting 
Germany or facing down the United States in Cuba? The reality is that the Soviet Union built up 
its economy on a series of well-grounded economic   principles. Similar to those followed by other 
developing countries around the world like Japan   and Taiwan. I have discussed other similar 
situations in my videos on economic development. Unlike with those Asian economies, when the 
Soviet engine first started to sputter due to   fundamental demographic issues, policy makers 
found themselves unable to swap out their   one-trick pony and anchor against external shocks. 
But up until then, it really did grow quite well. People argue that the Soviet Union 
should not be given credit for its   economic success because it came with brutal 
political repression, horrible famines,   and an emphasis on heavy industry without 
care for other parts of the economy. Fair arguments can be made for all of 
these and I am very sympathetic to them.   I certainly would not have wanted to born 
in the Soviet Union during those times.   I read a book by Anne Applebaum on the Soviet 
takeover of Eastern Europe and East Germany,   “Iron Curtain”. A depressing 
book with a sad outcome. An economy is more than a sum of numbers and 
outputs. It’s a representation of the life and   livelihood of its inhabitants. The Soviet 
Union had 300 million people at its peak.   Its economy failed to give them the growth 
and livelihood that those people deserved.   That failure should serve as a lesson for 
us all and we should study it earnestly and   honestly rather than simply slapping 
a sticker on it and calling it a dud.