In November of 2020, the rocket company SpaceX was 
just starting to make some progress in the testing   program for their new vehicle, Starship, one of 
the most ambitious rocket projects in history.   One of the prototypes, serial number 8, was on the 
pad to test-fire the engines for the very first   time as a fully stacked vehicle. Almost as soon as 
the engine lit up, it was clear that something was   wrong. A shower of sparks exploded into the dusky 
sky, and the engine abruptly stopped. The sparks   looked innocuous at a distance without a reference 
for scale, but in reality, they consisted of   massive, glowing chunks of the launchpad below 
the rocket. One of these chunks was blasted into   the engine bay, severing an essential cable and 
severely damaging the rocket. The event brought   into the spotlight what is probably the most 
humble piece of engineering of the entire rocket   industry: the pad. How do we build structures that 
can withstand such insane conditions, what happens   when they don’t work, and how might we solve these 
challenges on other planets? I’m Grady and this is   Practical Engineering. In today’s episode, we’re 
talking about launch pads and refractory concrete. This video is sponsored by HelloFresh, 
America’s number 1 meal kit. More on that later. Rocket launch pads are subject to conditions that 
aren’t very similar to typical infrastructure.   There are a lot of creative ways to manage 
the extremely high-temperature exhaust gases   barrelling out of a rocket engine at 
incredible speeds during a launch.   With the Space Shuttle and the in-progress SLS, 
the launch facilities incorporate a flame trench.   This is a structure used to deflect the exhaust 
gases of a rocket away from the vehicle itself   and all the delicate support structures, 
fuel and power lines, et cetera. But,   a launch isn’t the only time that rockets and 
their fiery engines get close to the ground.   SpaceX and other launch providers are now 
landing rockets propulsively (in other words,   with engines). And in most cases, the coming 
down has a lot less precision than the going up.   It isn’t feasible to pinpoint a rocket landing 
atop a fancy flame diversion structure,   at least not yet. Instead, they usually just 
land on a slab of concrete. But, it’s not just   regular concrete. The relationship between heat 
and that omnipresent gray durable substance is   pretty complex, and I have a few demonstrations 
set up here in my garage so we can learn more. Concrete is a relatively fire-resistant material. 
That’s one of the reasons we use so much of it   in our buildings and infrastructure: it 
doesn’t burn. It can provide protection   like around the stairwells of buildings. It can 
also withstand exposure to risky conditions that   we wouldn’t allow for other materials, like 
in warehouses and factories where there’s   potential for sparks. Because it is so durable 
and incombustible, there is a lot of science   around the topic of concrete and fire. Engineers 
have to consider how to design structures that   can withstand it. And, if a fire has occurred, we 
need engineers to inspect structures to figure out   whether they’ve been damaged beyond repair or are 
still safe to use. That can be pretty obvious in   some cases, but concrete can be damaged in ways 
that aren’t immediately clear to the naked eye. When the damage is obvious, it’s probably because 
of moisture. Concrete is a porous material,   and it can absorb water from the air. But, it’s 
not super porous. After all, we build dams out   of concrete. Moisture can take years to get in 
after it’s cured. If that water gets too hot,   it can turn to steam, expanding in volume 
within the interstitial spaces of the concrete.   And if that steam can’t get out fast enough, it 
will build up pressure to the point where the   concrete breaks. This is known as moisture clog 
spalling because the water in the pores of the   concrete blocks the steam from getting out. 
Actually, I did try to simulate this effect,   but my heat wasn’t enough or my sample was 
too small and gave the steam too many easy   paths to exit. I wasn’t able to make it spall, 
but you can see some water exiting the sample.   What I really want to show you is how concrete 
heat damage can be more subtle and insidious. I’m making a bunch of cylinders of concrete and 
we’re going to test their strength after exposure   to extreme heat. These samples are just made 
with regular old portland cement concrete from   a ready-mix bag purchased from a home center. Just 
for fun, I’m also making equivalent samples from   a specialty concrete that uses materials 
resistant to deterioration from high heat   (also known as refractory concrete). 
I’m testing three different scenarios:   controls left at room temperature with no heat, 
samples warmed in my oven to 500 degrees F,   260 C., and samples blasted using a gas torch. 
Two types of concrete times three different   temperatures times two samples means I have 12 
cylinders in all (but I made a few more just in   case something went wrong - they come in handy 
sometimes). Once they’ve all been heated except   the controls, I let them sit in my garage 
for a week. Now it’s time to break them. Using a hydraulic press to crush a concrete 
cylinder isn’t just a lot of fun. It’s the   time-tested and industry-approved way of figuring 
out how strong the concrete is. On almost   all construction projects that use concrete, 
samples of the mix are taken to a laboratory,   cured in cylindrical molds, and crushed on a press 
to verify the concrete was as strong as required.   We’re doing the same thing here to see if the 
heat affected the strength of these samples.   Before we get started, let’s just 
take a look. From the outside,   it’s not clear that anything’s different. 
But, let’s find out if that’s true. The regular concrete control cylinders broke 
at 3000 psi or 20 MPa. Unfortunately, the   refractory concrete control cylinders maxed out 
my little press here at 10 tons without breaking.   That’s 6,400 psi or 44 MPa. This stuff has small 
fibers in it to provide some insulation against   heat and reduce cracking, and they also help 
make it much stronger. A fair comparison isn’t   going to be possible, but I still think this demo 
is illuminative - if you’ll pardon the pun. Now   I’ll break the heated samples. The ones that 
went into the oven spent about an hour there   to make sure they were fully heated. The portland 
cement cylinders broke at an average of 2200 psi   or 15 MPa. That means they lost about 25% of their 
compressive strength compared to the unheated   samples. We’ll talk about why in a minute. The 
refractory concrete samples out of the oven still   wouldn’t break. They may have lost some strength, 
but it wasn’t enough to break in my 10-ton press. The samples that got the blow torch were next, 
and the effect was dramatic on the portland   cement concrete. Both samples broke at around 
1300 psi or 9 MPa, losing more than half their   original strength. The refractory cylinders did 
break this time, although it was still at nearly   the maximum pressure I could deliver. The lesson 
here is pretty simple: concrete exposed to high   temperatures might look fine even when it has 
lost a significant amount of strength. But why? The biggest culprit is microcracking 
caused by thermal expansion.   Concrete is a composite material, after all. It’s 
made from a mixture of large and small aggregates   and cement paste. Most materials change volume 
according to temperature, expanding when hot and   shrinking when cooled. But the materials that 
make up concrete have slight differences in   the way they behave when subjected to changes in 
temperature. Those differences aren’t so critical   when the temperature swings are small. But, when 
subjected to extremes - like under the heat of a   massive rocket engine - microfractures occur at 
the interfaces between the different components   as they expand and shrink at the different 
rates. I used these waxes that melt at different   temperatures to try and estimate the temperature 
of the blow torch samples. They probably didn’t   get much hotter than the oven samples in most 
places, but directly in line with the flame was   scorching, probably over 1000 degrees F, 500 
C. That type of uneven heating from a small,   incredibly hot source, exacerbates this type 
of damage. The tiny cracks grow over time,   weakening the concrete as they do, and they 
aren’t usually visible to the naked eye. Interestingly, once the concrete is broken, it 
sometimes does carry a sign that it got too hot.   Many of the aggregates used in concrete will 
turn pink after exposure to extreme heat.   It doesn’t show up on camera quite as clearly as 
it does in person, but you can see that most of   the rocks in the sample on the right are pinkish 
compared to the control cylinder on the left. Refractory concrete isn’t a single material, but 
really a general name for concretes designed to   withstand high temperatures. Every manufacturer 
has their special blend of herbs and spices.   Usually, they use cement that includes 
oxides which absorb heat less readily   and have reduced thermal expansion. So they’re 
less prone to deterioration when subjected to   extreme temperatures, as I demonstrated. They 
also often have embedded fibers that provide   insulation and tensile reinforcement 
similar to the way rebar holds   macroscope cracks from growing. These extremely 
useful properties are taken advantage of in a   variety of industrial processes like furnaces, 
kilns, incinerators, and even nuclear reactors. Like we saw in the demo, even refractory 
concrete is subject to damage due to heating.   We don’t know what the original strength 
was, but we do know it dropped below the   capacity of the press after being blasted by 
the blow torch. That potential for damage is   especially present in the case of launch pads 
where concrete is not just exposed to heat   but also corrosive gases moving 
at incredible speeds and sometimes   carrying solid airborne particulates capable 
of eroding even extremely durable materials.   Many launch pads use a ceramic epoxy material 
to repair damaged areas of refractory   concrete launch pads or just to provide an extra 
layer of thermal insulation. It was actually a   chunk of this epoxy (called Martyte) that damaged 
the Starship engine during the static test fire. This demonstration highlights the 
difficulties that launch providers face.   Landing pads are extremely important. Without 
them, rocket engines cause extensive erosion,   blasting the loose soil atop the planet (called 
regolith) away at incredible speeds. This is one   of the reasons the two recent Mars rovers used 
a complicated sky crane system for landing.   The rovers themselves were lowered onto the 
planet via cables while the rocket thruster   nozzles stayed high above the surface. 
Once the wheels were safely on the ground,   the cables were cut and the crane flew 
off to crash well away from the rover.   It was all to reduce the potential for 
damage from those rocket engine plumes. In fact, when you land a rocket on the moon, 
the exhaust gases are moving faster than the   planetary escape velocity. That means, not only 
can the flying dust threaten the vehicle itself,   the engines also send a plume of ejecta 
flying out like a swarm of microscopic bullets   with no atmosphere and not enough gravity 
to slow them down. If an orbiting spacecraft   were to fly through this plume, it would almost 
certainly be damaged. So, moon landings have to   be timed to prevent collisions between orbiting 
spacecraft and these sheets of ejected regolith. That’s a lot of complexity that could be 
solved with a simple square of concrete.   But, what seems simple on earth has 
some interplanetary complications,   one more important than others: Concrete 
is heavy. That’s one of its main features.   Concrete structures mostly stay put because 
their weight pins them to the ground. But   that weight is a huge disadvantage if you have 
to carry the raw materials to another planet.   Reducing mass is everything when it comes to 
launch payloads, and the weight of an entire   rocket is often less than that of the pad it 
takes off from. In other words, we won’t be   bringing concrete launch or landing pad assembly 
kits to the moon, Mars, or elsewhere anytime soon. There are some creative ideas for building 
launchpads on other planets that take advantage   of local materials, and we’ve even made some 
lunar concrete using samples brought back to   earth. But like almost all tasks that happen 
outside of earth’s comfort, it’s never as easy   as it seems at first glance. The stakes are high, 
as we saw during the static test of SpaceX’s SN8.   When a launch or landing pad fails, it can 
be worse than if it wasn’t there at all,   creating high-speed projectiles that 
jeopardize the safety of the vehicle   and its support equipment, not to mention 
its crew. It’s a nice reminder that even the   humblest provision here on earth - a solid, 
flat, and durable surface - is an absolute   luxury on another world and of the importance 
of infrastructure in our interplanetary quests. It’s time for everyone’s favorite 
segment of me trying to cook while   my wife and toddler try to capture that on video. Cooking dinner with a little one 
in the house can be a bit of an   adventure. That’s why we’re thankful for 
HelloFresh, the sponsor of this video,   for converting cooking from a chore into 
our favorite thing to do on date night. We’re indecisive eaters and get 
stuck in recipe ruts really easily.   We end up eating the same meals every single 
week. HelloFresh pulls us out those ruts by   curating delicious recipes from all over the 
world and with interesting ingredients to try. The pre-portioned ingredients mean 
there’s less prep and less food waste,   and the packaging is mostly recyclable or already 
recycled content. HelloFresh also helps us get   dinner ready quickly when we haven’t had time 
or energy for planning, prep, and shopping. Go try it yourself at HelloFresh.com 
and use code PRACTICAL14   to get 14 free meals, including free shipping. Supporting our sponsors helps support this 
channel. That’s HelloFresh.com and use code   PRACTICAL14. Thanks, HelloFresh, and thank 
YOU for watching. Let me know what you think.