- What are the odds that whatever's inside of
here actually survived? It's real messed up looking.
It's very lumpy still. - [Matt] Same.
- Okay. I smell 2004. Get a big whiff, boys. Is this a PlayStation TV? - [Ken] Yes.
- We already have one. What the hell am I looking at here? And wow, this is really well
padded. Is this the PS2 TV? - [Ken] Yeah.
- [Matt] Yeah, buddy. - Okay, so if you're unfamiliar, I am vaguely aware that there was, late in the PS2's lifecycle, it wasn't officially called it, but it was basically a Sony Bravia TV that an actual PlayStation
2 built into the TV. It was only sold, I wanna say
like Europe and Japan maybe. And I am positive that
they made like 17 of them and they're ludicrously expensive. - [Ken] This TV sold for 200 pounds or about $300 at the time. - Okay, it's actually a pretty good deal considering that this
is a little Bravia LCD, and look at that, it's a
little dirty, I'll say. And I really hope it works
'cause it is a big boy. So this is a, I'm gonna guess what, like a 24 inch TV or something like that. - [Ken] 22. - I'm not even like exaggerating, I say. Look at how much there is down here. - [Ken] It came from Europe. - What you'll see is that you
got yourself the PS2 badging. You've got memory card
slots, you've got USB ports, controller slots, the
open, oh, it's like a, it's like a PS2 slim. So you have component, composite,
HDMI, VGA, optical audio. And you also have, I saw it somewhere, ethernet here on the back of the PS2 and optical audio coming out of the PS2. I assume that the PS2 is probably wired into the TV directly, so you could just play it. Once I find an adapter for the plug, we're gonna see if this thing works. And then we're going to
experience the PS2-ness together. - [Ken] It's better than the PSP (quack). - I hear a little
humming, but that's fine. - [Matt] I hear-
- Oh, it's working. I saw Sony logo. Oh, so I'm assuming Spel is PlayStation 2? Yeah, PlayStation 2. - [Matt] It may in fact be in Dutch. - Spel? Oh yeah, that
probably makes sense. - [Matt] 'Cause you know- - Dutch people speak Dutch, what? - [Joanna] Systeem configuratie. - Okay, now that's rude
and insensitive, Joanna, I'm sorry, that's a little- - [Ken] Wait, wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait. - [Matt] What? How am I- - [Austin] Yeah, that's, that's- - [Ken] Wait. (Ken laughing) - I'm sorry, is everyone in the room learning what a different language is? - [Matt] Yeah, we're trying to learn. - Oh wait, what's "Fout
bij het lezen van disc?" - [Matt] Can't read the disc. - That what I do- - [Matt] I might worked up a Dutch real- - I like to apologize to literally the entire world right now. We have offended, I think,
everyone on planet Earth, so apologies. - [Joanna] You've said worse. - [Matt] Oh.
- [Ken] Oh. - [Austin] Gimme a- (all cheering) - [Ken] Let's go.
- Let's go! - [Ken] I mean this is
like a DVD TV combo, but they were like, oh, why
not just make it a PS2 instead? - Actually, yeah. Yeah, you're
not right. You're not wrong. How much did we pay for this PS2 TV to be shipped directly from Belgium? - [Ken] So I was able to find this- - Yeah. - [Ken] And mind you, this is
one of the best condition ones 'cause every other one was scuffed. - [Austin] It's not bad-
- [Ken] For 650. - So look, no one besides weirdos who are into collecting
PlayStation paraphernalia should buy one of these in 2024. But, I'll say that as a historical piece, it was really strange to
have a PS2 built in a TV. Now, it's hard to understate
just how popular the PS2 was. In fact, we just did an entire video talking all about the PlayStation 2 from its inception all the way through its absolute
dominance of the generation and stuff like this would not have existed if the PS2 wasn't on every street corner, every mother's second basements. This thing was cool back in the day, understandably four years
after the PS3 came out, not a lot of people were
interested in the PS2, but I'll tell you as a
historical bit of museum action that we paid 600 euros for apparently, I gotta say it actually is really cool. All righty then, let's,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, you're really aggressive. - [Ken] Ooh! - [Matt] Remember how much
you liked the other thing from "Mystery Tech" last time? - Oh, yeah, the other thing
from the other "Mystery Tech." I've only done a hundred and- - [Matt] Well we got you another one 'cause you liked it so much. - Oh, it's another
Freewrite thing. Oh, no. - [Ken] Oh, it's another,
we got another one? Wait. - At some point in the
not too distant past, we looked at the Freewrite Alpha, which was a little like
keyboard looking dude, that was cool, but the problem was
that it was like, what, three or four hundred bucks and it felt like a cheapy keyboard. And it had a little E-ink display. And the idea with these things, it's like a modern day typewriter
and that you can type away and not have like, you know, the distractions
of your Facebook Messenger and your email and your Spotify. It's all gone, right? This is just a straightforward
writing device. High contrast, E-ink screen,
full sized mechanical keyboard, lightweight aluminum housing and wifi with seamless
backups to the cloud. It's got a handle, so
it's a, that's a big boy. Freewrite smart typewriter by Astrohaus. Now it does feel more premium. Yeah, it feels nice. Ah, Astrohaus. It's taken a long time to boot. I feel like my keyboard should
just turn on immediately, but we'll just give a second. Let's try to see how this keyboard feels. Uh-oh, well it's quite laggy. Like if you're used to a
good mechanical keyboard, this is not especially great, it is at least a little bit clickier, but if you want an experience like this, you would be better off probably spending less money than this by buying yourself a mechanical keyboard and just plugging into a laptop that's like offline or something. - I guess like the (quack)
who's doing this in Starbucks would probably want the loudest keys. Look, I'm working out my screenplay. - Let me, before I render judgment
on this particular product, let me unplug it. Let me actually sit down. Oh, the backlight turned
off, huh. How do I? - [Matt] Plug it in. - No, could I use this in
like a chair or something? Like, it feels like it's
not gonna be lapable. - [Ken] I mean it, that actually is probably its best use
case is that it's lapable. - Well, I've somehow made it stop working. So maybe that backlight normally stays on, but because it died. - [Ken] Yeah. - Because it's E-ink. Yeah,
so it's now rebooting. - It's just- - [Austin] Plugged in for a bit. - It's just E-ink and keyboard, like what? - [Austin] Yeah. - It was plugged in for like 15 minutes. - [Austin] My concerns
here is that the keyboard just feels like a $30 like cheap keyboard from like Amazon or whatever. Like it does not sound premium,
it's better than the Alpha, but like, still not amazing. I'm like, I'm torn. How much is this? - [Alex] I don't wanna tell you. - [Ken] That's a good sign.
- [Alex] So it's 650. - What? - If you're spending $650, can you spend more than $30
on the actual keyboard itself? Like listen to this. Like, it
just, it doesn't sound good. - [Alex] I think the problem is you are just not the target
audience, right? These are- - But I feel like, I
would like this thing. Like I can imagine like, hey, you know, I need to like
work on writing a video idea or whatever, like I would like the idea
of a distraction free, like I, look, I'm never gonna think about like shutting the
Wi-Fi off on my laptop while I'm trying to work
on something, right? Like I'm just not gonna do that. So like I get the concept
here, it's really cool, but I just like, it's so much money man. I could only recommend
this for someone who, A, wants to be a cool hipster and focus, and B, has never used a
nicer mechanical keyboard. Now if you're just coming
off of your MacBook that you've always typed on forever, this is probably gonna feel kind of cool. But, if you've ever used a remotely decent mechanical keyboard, you're gonna choke on the $650
that you paid for this thing, and it's just like, ah, it's so close. Y'all did not already order
that Hemingwrite, did you? - [Alex] I never know. - [Ken] We don't know what the
future holds, you know, like- - Subscribe for typewriter part three. What do we got this fine Saturday night? No one gets to go home until the "Mystery
Tech" has been revealed. Much like you have no choice
but to subscribe to the channel and ring-a-ling the ding-a-ling button. Otherwise, we'll be here
till tomorrow morning. All right. Why is this so warm? Ew. There is Dasai helmet? Mochi
helmet? Race protection. Helmet guy? - [Ken] It's a little friend - Mochi version two. $70? Nice to meet you. My name is Mochi and I'm
your new driving buddy. He seems so sad. - [Matt] He's crying cause
he's gotta go with Ken. - I've seen Ken spin his Supra out on the banking of an actual speedway doing triple digit speeds. - Yeah, it's great. - Place him anywhere in the car and then if he's too
loud, tell him to shut up. Mochi AI randomly generates his face. Keep an eye out for each one. That's adorable. Okay, I'm gonna simulate
being in Ken's car. He just doing little things. All right, let me get, while he does this, let me get his helmet out. So he just cycles through different faces using artificial intelligence, I will add. So we just sit here and watch for a while, he's gonna keep giving us random faces and we could just mount them out on like our dashboard or something. - [Matt] Don't shake the baby. - I shake all of my
friends, you would know. - The thing is that like, I think you guys expect too much of this, this is supposed to be like- - I'm not expecting it to do anything. - This is like the equivalent
of like a hula hoop girl, like on your dashboard, like it's not supposed to be anything. - I wish I could be an Arco commercial. Oh he's turned into Pong,
he's turned into Pong. He's pong, he's ponging. Mochi, using the power of AI, to make cute little
noises on your dashboard, unlike the normal noises
on your dashboard, which is ding, ding, ding,
ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding,
ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding,
ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. You may have noticed that there is a distinct
lack of items on the table is because this is, Austin's brought his own thing
for "Mystery Tech" segments. - [Ken] But that makes
it not mystery tech. - You know what? It's a mystery on how
much I'm gonna love it. This is thanks to Macho Nacho Productions. So I've been watching Tito's
channel for a while and he did a video on this. And when I saw it, I didn't
even finish the video I had already ordered one. All right, inside my
friends is an entire kit of lovely accessories to
build my own Game Boy Color. Yes, you heard me, right. Unlike a lot of the other
kits that are out there, this is a brand new Game Boy,
no reused parts whatsoever. So what it is, is it's actually an FPGA that will essentially hardware emulate the original Game Boy Color CPU. So we've got ourselves the
motherboard, oh, look at that. - [Ken] Oh that looks quite nice actually. - That's sick, right? It has USB-C already built in, so it is designed to be used
with a rechargeable battery. It also does have an LCD display, which should look quite nice. And the cool thing is,
this is not emulation, it's not the big E like
Nintendo likes to call it. - There's no price on here,
but how much did you pay? - Oh, so I bought this from
the Retro Game Repair Shop. So the board itself with the screen is I think something like $90. Now, I do have a few extra things. So this grand total is about $130 or so. So I've got myself a
brand new white shell. I also have, I opened this
up here, metal buttons. Now I did splash a little extra
money on the metal buttons. Feel that. - Oh yeah, that does feel quite nice. - The good thing about this kit is that you actually don't
really need to do a ton of work. So simple in fact that I'm going to build
this entire thing myself with no help from anyone. And it's gonna be so cool
when you see it done- - [Ken] With the magic of editing. (upbeat music) - Behold my friends, the Game
Boy Color Austin edition. I'm not gonna lie, over the last
couple days after I built it, I've been letting my son play with it and he's actually been
playing Pokemon Red, so don't mess the safe file up. - Can't help but this
notice there's a little, couple little dimples on here. - Well here's the thing, while I think I did a
good job of building this, maybe I swapped a couple of screws and I put slightly too long
screws in those and had built. - Yep. - It looks and sounds good, right? Brand new speaker, metal
buttons, the whole deal. - See, okay, so here's the problem whenever I review one of
these things that Austin did is he's really bad at building stuff. - [Austin] No, no, no. - So I can't tell whether the
Start and the Select are bad or whether he just didn't put
in the cushion the right way. - [Austin] No, so. - Because like there's zero give to them, so they almost feel capacitive. - So the, all the other buttons are fine, but because of the way I built
this, it didn't actually, like the metal buttons are
kind of meant to be used with like little like rubber spacers, but instead, I had the
original rubber buttons. - Yeah. - So I just took the
original rubber buttons, I cut them down and put them underneath. - Why would I need to use the
regular parts that they give? - I have the metal. I didn't want to use rubber for
the bottom, that felt weird. So it's all metal. Those just, they're fine, they work, they're just, they don't click as much. - I will say that's adorable that your son's been playing
this for a couple days and has not left Pallet Town. - [Austin] He is two.
- [Matt] And he is- - He's having a great time walking around Professor
Oak's lab, and find a Pokemon. - He's got a Squirtle, which is- - Exactly, look I raised my son, right. He picked the correct starter. - Yeah.
- But here's the thing, I built this myself with my own two hands. It took like an hour. It
was actually very fun. I think it's dope. I love the
way the metal buttons feel. I think it looks great,
the screen's terrific. Man, y'all are haters. - [Matt] Can I have the honey after the bees in there make it? - Ah, behold my friends. - [Matt] Is that a Game Boy box? - [Ken] I was gonna say. - Well, it doesn't say
anything, it just says Honda. Did Honda send this? - [Ken] No.
- [Matt] No. I spent a lot of your money on this. - Motocompacto, oh! It's little, the suitcasey guy. - [Ken] Yeah. Yeah, there you go. - So this my friends is a Motocompacto. - [Ken] This is like a 10 mile
an hour scooter basically. - [Alex] Yeah. 15 mile an hour. - [Ken] 15? Okay, I mean. - There's an app? Of
course there's an app. What's the app do? - [Alex] Well it has a manual in it, but when you explore the
manual, it gives you trophies. - No, I don't wanna do that.
That sounds like a lot of work. So this, wait, so this
part did this part, right? - Unlocked.
- [Ken] Ah! Oh, bell. - Coming through. - [Matt] The idea for this is instead of having like
a scooter or whatever, you leave this in your car and then as you like park downtown- - [Austin] Yeah.
- [Matt] You pull this out and this is how you get around downtown. - [Ken] It's like your last mile. - [Matt] Yeah. - I was about to say
the one downside here is there's no storage for like a bike lock, but once you unpack all this, the inside is all storage. I'm running with it. All right. - [Ken] Holy. - That's fine, it's fine. Oh yeah, there you go. Whee!
Woo! Actually, you know, what? - It's incredibly quiet. - It's very maneuverable
because it's so small. Look, I can actually drive it
around in here pretty easily and like if I wanna make
a really tight turn, look, I can literally almost do like a 90-degree kind of thing. Plus you can back it up. It
does have a little speedometer. I assume it's in kilometers. So like a lot of scooters, you can't just take off from a stop, you actually have to give a little kick and then you can start throttling up. So the controls are pretty simple. So you've got this little
throttle right here. - [Ken] Ooh! - I also like the little
like leather, like grips, it feels pretty nice. So mode one, you need a rolling start, and it'll go to 10 miles an hour. Mode two, you don't need a
rolling start and it'll go 15. So if a double tap. Ah,
now we're in two mode. - Go ahead and and do that one outside. - [Alex] Yeah.
- Whee! - [Alex] Why are you doing it in here? - We work for a 3-year-old. - The turning radius is so tight, like look how tight I can turn here. Wow, okay. Okay, three, four, five
miles an hour, six, 12. Oh boy, that's gonna be, oh! Yeah, so this does not take bumps well. I took that at 12 miles an hour and boy that seat found a
new home right up my pants. This is actually decent. Boy though I would say that taking this on like a bumpy sidewalk or something sounds legitimately kind of scary. Now maybe if I'm driving slow it's fine. Let's go ahead and take
this thing out though on the open road. All right, goodbye my friends. Technically it's a scooter so you should keep it on the
bike lane, I would think, but that's okay. Okay, we are now on the
street and it is bumpy. So this says 10 miles an
hour, feels quite decent. I'm gonna go full speed, let's do it. All right, let's see what we top out. Oh actually no, there we
go, that's 15. So we are 16. Or actually technically it says
15 miles an hour at the top, but we're actually doing 16 right now. You know what? This is
actually pretty fast. It's fast enough that it would
hurt if I fall off right now. Okay, so going up a fairly steep hill, it looks like about eight miles an hour is sort of where we're at. So with the 250 watt motor,
it's never gonna be super fast, but it does have enough speed to at least get me up a very steep hill. If I was like pushing a bike up this, this would be annoying. All right, people are just staring at me like what is that idiot
doing on the scooter? All right, so you gotta
be really committed to the portability aspect. It's probably gonna take
you two, three minutes to tear this down and
put it up every time. If you're the right kind of
person for the Motocompacto, cool, sweet, but, there's certainly some limitations. It is fairly expensive. It is not the most comfortable or the fastest scooter around, but what it is, is
something a lot of style. It works pretty well. And if you want something
which is super portable and yet can still get you
at a pretty decent speed, kind of fun. Actually a lot of fun. I, it feels like one of those things that it's kind of
irrational, but I like it. (upbeat music)