`- They were holding out on us. AMD's launching yet another GPU, and now with the GPU shortages (knocking wood) maybe coming to an end heck! Maybe you'll even be able
to get one of these at MSRP. But why is this called the
6950 XT? That's weird isn't it? And that's not the only thing
that's weird about this. Let's get into it. But first,
let's get into our sponsor. - [Announcer] KiwiCo. KiwiCo ships out crates that
contain hands-on projects for kids to help develop
their creative confidence and problem-solving skills. Learn more at the end of the video or right now at the link below. (upbeat music) - Wanna know why this GPU is weird? Well, it's because it
is the exact same GPU as this one, the 6900 XT. Almost literally nothing has changed. It's the same silicon,
same amount of memory, same infinity cache,
same almost everything. The only differences are that the memory is rated for 18 Gigabytes
per second instead of 16, and higher Core Clocks. How high? Less than 5%
more across the board. But the board has more
than 11% higher power? What is AMD thinking? How could these tiny tweaks possibly represent enough of a difference to justify a whole new SKU? Well, they didn't give
us a whole lot of time to figure it out. And they didn't even seed
us a founder's edition card, instead letting MSI handle it, giving us their Gaming X Trio SKU. To compare against, we have
all of the strongest cards, but the one to watch out for
is the GeForce RTX 3080 Ti, since on paper it is the price competitor. Things start off well
for AMD with F1 2021's traditional rasterization performance clearly favoring team red's
infinity cache implementation that puts both the 6900
XT and the new 6500 XT well ahead of the RTX 3090 Ti. As much of a strength
as infinity cache is, ray tracing is still Nvidia's home turf and AMD loses by as much as it
gains when we switched it on. This pattern holds for Far Cry 6 too, although the performance gap
with ray tracing disabled isn't as wide as it was for F1, neither is Nvidia's lead
with ray tracing enabled. With a 6950 XT basically
neck and neck with 3090 Ti. Forza Horizon 4 and HITMAN 3 both repeat F1 2021's
results almost perfectly, with a significant lead for
team red's refreshed GPU but Microsoft Flight Simulator appears to heavily favor Nvidia with a massive 24% lead in
the minimum frame rates. CS:GO puts a cap on it with another performance canyon event with frame rates so high, you're
unlikely to notice anyway. Productivity, though, once AMD's domain in the years before RTX cards, is now firmly in Nvidia's hands, with significant
performance gaps in blender and we're not even using the RTX accelerated optics render here. The performance of the 6950 XT
is not unusable by any means, but you can get this level of performance with a significantly cheaper
card from team green. PugetBench is interesting because while the test results are more or less the same
across Creative Cloud, that premiere score on
the 6950 XT is a standout. More than just outpacing the 6900 XT, it pushes past even the RTX
3090 Ti to take the crown here by about as much as that
card beats the 3080 Ti. LuxMark swings the pendulum
back to NVIDIA, however, as does Indigo Benchmark. AMD's RDNA 2 simply isn't
as good at these tasks as NVIDIA ampere detector is, at least with these implementations. And we can see more of
that with SPECviewperf, where 3DS Max, CATIA and Creo all see Radeons following behind. The bump in memory bandwidth
does allow the 6950 XT to pull ahead of the pack
in energy and medical tests, although Solidworks is a bloodbath. Although it's worth noting that SPECviewperf is using Solidworks 2022 while expanded GPU support landed in 2021. Thankfully, SPEC has an
application benchmark for Solidworks 2021,
and we have a license, so after forcing the real view
accelerator to run on HTPU, well it's a lot closer but still about 25%
slower than team green. As with any GPU that's
factory overclocked, the thermal data should be
taken with a grain of salt. With that said, our MSI
Gaming X Trio capped out at around the same high
70s core temperature as the AMD-built 6900 XT, which is slightly higher
than either G-Force card, but still pretty manageable. Why not higher? Well, the hotspot temperatures
tell a different story, with the 6950 XT having around the mid-90s at the hottest sensor, and the
3090 just going to the moon. That sensor is probably memory, as we've seen those in the
past, but still, just... wow. The 3090 Ti doesn't even get that high, although it is the EVGA FTW3
with a big beefy cooler. Kind of like our swackets
from lttstore.com. Beefy, but not too beefy. Good most of the year up here
in the Great White North. Now we do need to have a
discussion about power consumption. In our testing, the 6950
XT hard around 450 Watts, with a peak of over 500,
which is just ridiculous. Only the RTX 3090 Ti goes
higher, and not by all that much. AMD tells us this isn't normal behavior, so it's definitely like MSI here with their factory overclock, but it's yet another indicator
of the terrifying future where GPUs - and especially
third party cards - will drop ever-more power in
a bid to one up each other, even it means we need a dedicated
circuit just for our PC. All for a factory overclock, God. For what it's worth, that factory overclock
was relatively stable, although it did decline
from 2.5 GHz to around 2.42. It's worth mentioning that stock Hertz will often overshoot the boost clocks if they're able to anyway, so it's tough to say what a
reference 6950 XT might look based on this data alone. At the end of the day,
you're paying 10% more for 10% more performance. Which, in the same
generation, is fine by me. Especially considering
the premium Nvidia placed on the RTX 3090 Ti. But there are some questions
that remain unanswered here. This card is the exact same
silicon as the 6900 XT, which means AMD binned them so they could sell them
at a higher price point rather than contribute
to the 6900 XT supply. That AMD told us these GPUs
will be adding to supply supports that theory. But when you look at the retail pricing for the 6900 XT as of writing, the conclusion of corporate
greed you might come to becomes less clear. Yeah, some cards are available at around the original launch price, but a lot of them are as expensive or more than the 6950 XT that launches today. So you're spending less money overall for a better GPU out of the box, assuming you can get one of
these for its $1100 launch price All of which is to say I don't hate this. True, it's not a game changer, and it's far from a good
value for productivity, but it doesn't have to be
either of those things. From our testing it at minimum
trades blows and gaming with a GPU that costs nearly
double, depending on the game. At a time when availability
and pricing for Radeon GPUs is coming back down to Earth, this puts AMD in a position where paradoxically they're over $1000 GPU is a good deal by comparison. I can't believe I just said that. But I can believe that I'm gonna
tell you about our sponsor. - KiwiCo! KiwiCo is a
monthly subscription service to help introduce and make
STEM topics fun and engaging for kids of all ages. They believe if you start
learning small things today, you can peruse world-changing
ideas tomorrow. Each crate is designed by experts and contains everything
you need to complete it with detailed kid-friendly instructions. Maybe even I can understand it. This means you don't need
to run off to the store to get extra supplies
like glue or scissors. KiwiCo offers nine subscription lines, each catering to different
age groups and topics, but the crate we have
here is at kiwi level for kids aged 3 and up. That teaches accounting,
sorting and fine motor skills. Another one is the tinker level
for your tweens and teens, aged nine to 16, which explores airborne and fluid dynamics with an air cannon. KiwiCo is a great way to
keep kids occupied for hours so that they just leave you alone and they now ship to over
40 different countries. With KiwiCo you're not just
teaching your kids to buy, you're teaching them to build. So go to kiwico.com/LTT30 and you get 30% off your
first month on any crate. - So thanks for watching,
hit like, get subscribed, and maybe after this you wanna see... Well, we didn't put an AMD GPU
in it, but the Hotwheels PC, we put an RTX 3090 in it
and it was freaking sweet.