- I got this $1,200 computer for $100.71. - Uh-uh. So today, we're taking
a look at DealDash.com. Now if you watch a lot of daytime TV, you're probably familiar
with this site and the ads, which seem to be far too good to be true. When you are getting a TV for 30 bucks or an iMac for a hundred dollars, you've gotta assume that there's something nefarious
lurking in the background. DealDash is an auction
site, sort of like eBay. But on eBay, anyone can
bid and increase the price and the winner only has
to pay the final price. So she's trying to say
that she got it for cheap. Roseanna Hefferman bid
761 times worth $152, the total cost is $177. The way that DealDash works, if I'm understanding this correctly, is that you may win something for $25 after you bid 761 times at 20 cents each. That's like saying I got a car for free, all I had to do was steal it. 51% of auction winners
save 90% off retail. Okay, hold on, hold on, half your auction winners save money and the other half spend more? (laughs) I go to type in DealDash and the first thing I
see is scam complaints. I can tell that this site
was designed for old people because it looks like it's meant to run on Internet Explorer 6 So this is a PS5 Slim bundle, buy it now price $2,400? Wow, dude, this site's (beep) up. Now each time you bid on an auction, the final price goes up by 1 cents and resets the countdown
timer back to 10 seconds. When the ten second timer runs
out, the highest bid wins, unless you're second place and decide to pay an
outrageous amount of money to buy it now and steal
the item out of pure spite. This is bad, like, clearly
there are a lot of people who are having a great time on this site, but if I'm understanding this, when you bid for an
item, that money is gone. It is technically free to
sign up for an account, but during the process,
they ask for a credit card. But if you're not reading very carefully, they'll end up charging you right away for some introductory bids. So this is 66 of these clocks, the buy it now price is $41,000. Oh my God, look how many bidders, this is how many people have bid on this. And then, everyone has
like the little like bios, "Retired after 32 years
in the airline industry." "I live to buy these things." I'm upset. The bidding process itself
is easy but long and tedious because bidding only increases
the final price by 1 cent, it can take hours or days, but even if people were able to bid on an auction every second, that's a max of $36 per hour. It can take days for the auction to end. I don't know about you, but I don't have time
to sit around all day and just watch an auction. But don't worry, DealDash
has thought of that and graciously provides
a BidBuddy for free. What they don't tell you is that pretty much everyone
is using the BidBuddy, and because you're not
watching the auction, it is real easy to just lose because you didn't load
enough bids in the buddy. I'm gonna burn some money and we're gonna see just how bad this is. So if I want to buy this PS5, I can put my bid in, it'll
automatically bid it up. Now I lose my bids,
which I think I have to, well, I obviously have
to pay money to get bids. But if, for whatever
reason, people gave up, it's $7 and I would get it at $7, but I lose whatever the
money amount of bid is, that's how they get you. Because if all you care about
is getting it for at the end, "Oh cool, look at my $70
PlayStation," whatever. But if I had to spend
hundreds of dollars on bids, and the thing is as my
bids get burnt off here, I will have to purchase
more or bid for more bids. Now I put my 100 bids in, there's like a 0% chance I'm gonna get it. I've just given that to them. Now, say that I put in 100 or 200, however many bids that
have actually gone through. Well, if I really want the
item, I can do the buy it now, which is clearly more than this is worth, but I would get my bids back. Now in this case, spending $2,400 on a PS5
and a Bluetooth soundbar is an insane thing to do. But it's the sunk-cost fallacy. If I've already spent hundreds
of dollars on my bids, I might be willing to take
the L on buying the thing at the full price above the retail price so I can get my bids back, right? So for DealDash, suddenly
they've taken an item and they've sold it for way more, and everyone who's put bids
in have lost that money. I'll be honest with you, I need to wrap my head around the site. I did not understand the depths of what we're really working with here. Maybe I'll try to win
some things, I don't know. But like I wanna get to the bottom of what DealDash really is and is there anything redeeming about it? Because I'll be honest, like, this sort of first
impression is atrocious. It is just, it feels predatory
and the definition of a scam. But, I mean, I guess there's
a lot of things in life that feel really bad, but
people do them anyway. So I wanted to dive a little bit deeper into DealDash today. So when I logged in, I saw that even though I had put the 100 bids down for that PS5, I did not get it, big surprise. But I also saw a different auction, which was for a $10 Domino's gift card. Now that might sound silly, but what really jumped out to me was it was listed as only people who have won four or fewer auctions. So I threw a bid at it
at 1 cent and I won it. So after spending 1 cent on the gift card, plus the 12 cents that I had spent to purchase that bid, for 13 cents, I now have a $10 Domino's
gift card coming my way. It's that sort of initial
sort of dopamine hit that, oh, I won something,
oh, I got a great deal. You know, it's like all
the people in the ads who talk about how they got something for like $7 or whatever, it's like if I was going into this cold, I would actually think that, oh look, I just got a
great deal 'cause I did. And if I was smart, much like you're smart
when you walk into a casino and you win something,
you walk away immediately, I should probably bail now. But now that I've won
something to begin with, I obviously wanna try again, right? So I'm gonna start putting some more bids out and see what I've got. I totally understand how
people get sucked in by this, I completely get it. It does still feel kind of predatory. It still feels like one of those things where if you are reasonable and you treat this like
gambling, then maybe it's okay. But I don't think most people
are treating it like gambling, I think people are treating it like, oh, I'm gonna try to snipe a
good bid or deal or whatever. But it's not like that,
it's just it's not. So I bought 600 bids for $78 and wanted to go all
in on an Xbox Series X. So to do this, I got in right before the actual auction started and I put down 750 bids, which actually is probably
a total of a little close to like a hundred dollars,
just in the amount of bids. So this auction started yesterday and I checked it last night, so 12 hours later and it was still going. So this morning, I'm
assuming that it's closed, I'm gonna open it up
and see what happened. Oh my God, it's still going, wait. So I spent a hundred dollars on bids and have not won anything. So you can see right here that
if I want to buy it outright, I can get my bids back. So I've now committed $117 of bids to try to buy this Xbox Series X. If I was to win this bid right now, it would go for $114. But if I don't win the bid, then my bids are gone and that $117 I've spent
buying bids evaporates. At this point, I'm actually really incentivized
to do the buy it now because you think about, okay, so the Xbox Series X is worth what? Maybe like 450 bucks? And then, the headset's
maybe another 50, $100, whatever the case is, right? So say that's 5, 550. Well if I've already spent
over a hundred dollars on bids, that's getting me close to 650. And what happens there is that everyone else who's bid money, they lose all their money in bids, I get my bids back and I get the Xbox. Now have I overpaid for that Xbox? Yes I have, but the math
is actually not too crazy because I've already spent the money and if I don't win this item, all $100 worth of these
bids are gone forever. This is wild. Yeah, I'm winning right now, but winning doesn't do much. This is a $29,000 boat, that has gotta take weeks to go through. I gotta be real, like,
I'm gonna go through and try to win this Xbox. I mean, I guess, technically, I can just force my way into it, but like I have 132 bids left. But how long is that gonna take? This is not fun to me, this is stressful. Like, I'm not having a great time here, I'm just like, ugh. Let me bring you into the
DealDashery, my friend. - All right, so I've only
seen the TV commercials and I still don't know what
it's about, so, please. - [Austin] I have been bidding
for this Nintendo Switch since last night. So currently the bid is $95, which seems like a good
deal, except for the fact that I've already put in
1,200 bids to get that, which is, some of them were 12 cents, some of them were 13 cents each. - [Ken] Oh, so you could have just almost bought it with real money? - [Austin] If I win, I
get all my bids back. So incentivized to continue going, and on top of that, if I
get all those bids back, I can put them towards something else, staying on the hamster wheel, - Wait, you're paying for
the opportunity to buy it. This is really gamified then. - [Austin] Yes. - And this looks like a scoreboard, I don't like that. (laughs) - So I'm committed, so I already tried to
get an Xbox Series X, I spent over $100 dollars on bids and did not end up winning it. So I just lost those bids. So I'm out $100, nothing to show for it. So this time around, I am fully committed. I have to win this. First of all, I need
to actually get an item to take a look at to see
what the experience is. But on top of that, I am committed now. If I win then I will
eventually get the Switch, but the problem is, is
that, well, the problem, is that I get all those bids back, which means that, what am I gonna do with
them except buy more stuff? I just locked in another 372 bids, I'll tell you that's gonna be gone in like two or three hours. So tonight, if I haven't won this auction, I'm gonna put another,
honestly, like, 60 bucks in. I think the Fisker Ocean was probably a better financial decision than this. I'm 100% committed, I'm going to win this Switch so I can show you what happens, what my final tally is and what it takes to actually
get one of these things in, how long shipping is, if it's brand new, all that kind of stuff. But I'm so ready to be
done with this video, like, I am so ready to be done with this. - Clearly, it doesn't sound like it if you're keep throwing money at them. - I have to win, dude, I spent- - That's what they all say! - I spent over a hundred
dollars on an Xbox I didn't win 'cause I wasn't paying
attention, this time- - That's the gambler mindset, "I can quit whenever I want." - Except that normally gambling is fun. I just am doing this for a video 'cause I'm not having any fun. Ugh! All everyone needs to know is I am spending a lot of money
on a video for your benefit, which is a great reason
for you to subscribe and ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling button so your buddy Austin can lose his marbles over DealDash so you don't get scammed. I made some mistakes last night. So last we spoke, it was a
little after noon, you know, I was just having a good time, hanging on with my buddy, Ken, and explaining to him the $30 slot machine that I had been watching all day long. Well, last night, I put another $30 in and I was still locked in a bidding war with like three other people,
so I spent another 80. So my grand total is $258. - [Alex] What? - [Ken] Wait, that's almost the price of what this thing costs. - Yeah, and that's the price in bids, now I have specifically not looked, I assume the auction's over,
I have not looked at it at all because I wanted to get
this real genuine reaction. So one of two things is about to happen. Either I have won the Switch and I'm gonna spend like $150 on it and I get all my bids back and then I'll have like $258
of bids that I will waste on some other nonsense on
DealDash or someone else won, and that $258 is all gone and I will have completely lit it on fire. But, hey, here's the thing,
maybe I won the Switch. I literally, I specifically
opened google.com, this tab will tell me if I've won, I've not looked at it all day long. - There are two things
here that I've concluded. One, DealDash is a scam, regardless, but two, you might be the worst player in the game of this scam. - So I will admit that my
strategy has not been ideal and DealDashers out there
might be yelling at me that I'm stupid because for the Switch, I put bids down from the very beginning. So last I checked last night, I had over 2,000 bids
onto that Nintendo Switch. Here, here, can someone else look at it and then tell me if I
should be happy or sad? I'm gonna click on the thing. - [Ken] Oh congrats, you
are the highest bidder. - I've got it, I got the Switch. Really? No, that's not what it says. - [Ken] Oh. - It's not what it says at all. What it says, I've reached level 15 and I got some free bids
but I'm out of bids. I thought that this
would've been over now. This is so much less dramatic when now I've gotta sit here and watch this thing for a while. - So what you're saying is you're gonna liquidate
the remaining value of the company's assets into DealDash and we're all outta jobs? - I just want it to be over. Okay, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna wait, probably not very long, for these 70 bids that I've
got left to burn through. Once I hit zero and I
have not won this item, then I'm going to bow out,
let them take all my money, and give you a well-reasoned conclusion on why DealDash is no bueno. Okay, well, I'm down to three bids, I'm just gonna stare at it
until I get the final one. Don't do this at home, please. - [Ken] Don't do this, period. - Don't do this anywhere. There you go, my final bid, Seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, and it's over.
- Failure. - The big question is, is DealDash a scam? Now if the gray zone was a
website, it would be DealDash. I'll say that if you're not an expert at the penny auction format and you're not reading all the fine print, it can easily feel like a scam. At the very, very least, in my opinion, it is absolutely predatory. Now the first problem is transparency and DealDash is about as
transparent as a slab of granite. There are multiple times when an advertisement
or the website itself tries to mislead you, like the huge banner that says that you'll get your bids back, or when a testimonial shows a woman who won a PS5 for only $200 and just conveniently hides the fact that she spent over $150 in bids and two days staring at a
browser just to get this deal, or an Xbox you spent $130 in bids on and get literally nothing in exchange. Now sure there are some people out there getting some decent deals, if you're extremely lucky and bidding on something at 2:00 AM, you could get a great deal. But in the last couple of
weeks of using DealDash, a lot of the big ticket
items get pretty close, if not higher than MSRP. That means that there are
people that are losing tens if not hundreds of dollars in bids. So if anyone was wondering at this point how DealDash makes money,
it is a huge part of it. Now, to make matters worse, when it's not a lack of transparency in trying to understand
how everything works, there are the layers of the site itself, which just feels like
it's trying to screw you. Now, hypothetically, it
would be incredibly easy to just have a bot that drives up the bid to make sure that they don't lose money. Maybe that bot just wins
the bid no matter what so they get to keep the item and the money that everyone used on bids. Now to be clear, I'm not
accusing DealDash of doing that, but many of these other
penny auction sites have been accused of
it, and let's face it, it would be incredibly
easy for them to do this every once in a while
and get away with it. And to make things worse, they're basically printing money by having the option to bid for bids. The way this works is that
the winner might get more bids than they started with if you win, but I'm willing to bet that when you tally up all the
bids from other people, DealDash just made another
buttload of fictional currency that can be used on their actual site. And let's not forget the
bids are a one-way ticket. You can buy bids with cash, you cannot turn around and sell
your bids and get cash back, you have to spend them on DealDash. In my opinion though, the most dangerous part
of a website like this is the psychological aspect. Losing an eBay auction, it might suck because you
don't get the thing you want. But when you lose a DealDash auction, it means that not only are you not getting the thing you want, but
you also lose money too. They definitely rely on
the sunk-cost fallacy, when you think about how much
money you've already spent, you might as well put another
30 bucks in to keep bidding so that it's worth something at the end, plus people just hate to lose. I've seen multiple auctions
where people bid past MSRP, maybe it was out of spite, maybe it was the $100 that
they already sink in bids alone and the only way to get those
bids back is to win, right? Like, you either win and you get your bids
back on the item for cheap or you give up and you're a loser. Regardless, I don't what to tell you besides this all feels bad. Now if you're someone who has
a lot of time on your hands, I can see how this could
actually get addictive. I mean, it's not that different than something like a
slot machine at a casino. Are the odds better and a
little bit more skillful? Maybe. But to me, I mean this just
looks like legal gambling. I mean, technically legal, but, like, I don't know, man, I think about like if you are just looking for a good deal on a site
and you land on DealDash and go, oh hmm, that's
kinda interesting, cool. It's not healthy, this is not
the way that you should do it. Like, if you're really into it and you can dedicate hours and hours a day of watching all these auctions and trying to snipe them at
the end and throw in your bids, like, sure, but like for me, I'm gonna stick to questionable
tech on reputable websites 'cause I'll be honest, this is worse than any
of the other platforms that we've tried and it's not even close. So is DealDash a scam? In the most technical legal definition, 'cause I'm clearly not an attorney, no, I don't think DealDash is a scam. But if it feels like a scam and it drains your bank
account like a scam and keeps you up till 3:00
AM staring at your browser to know if you need to put another $30 in just to make sure you can win
that damn Nintendo Switch, it might just be a scam. Just remember, the house always wins. I just spent $345 on DealDash and got Jack (beep). Welcome to DealDash.com, sorry to interrupt your
episode of "Judge Judy" but I got some special
information for you today. DealDash is your one-stop shop
to get all kinds of nonsense that you're never gonna get. How about a bass boat for $24,435? Well, guess what? You ain't gonna win that either, but you can spend hundreds
of dollars in bids that don't exist to try to
pretend that you're gonna win. All you gotta do is empty
out your bank account, your checking account, your
savings account, overdraft, couple of cars along the way, don't pay rent or pay utilities, and then you'll have enough money to put enough bids down to
hypothetically win something. So what are you waiting
for? DealDash.com, baby. - [Ken] Dad, we won $20
in Domino's gift cards. - You know what? You better eat that pizza, boy, because we ain't eating anything else. I cashed out your college fund, it's fine 'cause you were never gonna go to college
to begin with, DealDash.com. And remember, with DealDash, every time that you
win someone else loses. And what else is America about other than (beep) someone else over to get just a little tiny bit ahead? DealDash.com, 'cause (beep) you.