If EUV is so important … and the United 
States helped develop and commercialize it,   then why aren't we making these 
EUV machines in the United States? In 2001, ASML paid $1.6 billion to acquire 
San Jose-based Silicon Valley Group or SVG. SVG was the last major 
American lithography company. The decline and fall of the American lithography 
industry holds a thoughtful lesson for   policymakers. Today's video is a deep dive into 
this significant moment in semiconductor history. ## Beginnings I am not going to give you a new update on EUV or   lithography here. You can watch 
a bunch of other videos about it. But I would like to give a special thanks to 
Craig Addison. He did a great episode of his   Chip Warriors podcast about America's lithography 
industry. Great story and I recommend it so much. Our story picks up a little bit in the 
second half of that. Once upon a time,   two big American companies GCA and 
PerkinElmer dominated the industry. GCA was once an American giant with 
$300 million of revenue in 1984.   But the machines suffered spotty 
quality - frequently breaking down,   which shut down expensive manufacturing 
lines and angered plant managers. When customer Toshiba suggested a 
few ways to improve, GCA waved them   off - essentially saying "Buy 
what we build and don't bother   us". This arrogance cost GCA a great 
deal when Toshiba turned to Nikon. Nikon and Canon purchased GCA's machines,   modified them, and made them work better. 
After Nikon and Canon broke through in 1984,   GCA and PerkinElmer struggled. GCA's 
revenue fell off a cliff, collapsing   50% in 1985. The company lost $100 million 
over two years and cut 70% of their payroll. They had no legal recourse. Apparently 
GCA's founder Milton Greenberg never   even patented his device. And 
even if they had, the Japanese   lithography machines had sufficiently 
changed enough from the originals. ## PerkinElmer PerkinElmer was the junior company of the 
two with about 11% of the market in 1989. That same year, GCA had about 13%. Nikon - 
the market leader had 30% and Canon, 15%. PerkinElmer's chipmaking unit struggled to 
stay profitable. In the year ended July 1988,   they produced just $3 million in 
profit on $200 million of sales. The reality of it is that - 
for all the sweet and precious   words spoken by pundits and politicians - 
lithography is not a very good business. You have to spend hundreds of millions of dollars 
in upgrades to keep up with the competition.   Lithography companies need to spend about 12-25% 
of their revenue on R&D and 10-15% on capital   investments. These are up to twice the amount 
of other semiconductor equipment companies. The customers are very demanding and quite 
particular about their machine’s specs.   And these machines barely work. They break 
down all the time, so servicing is critical. And the semiconductor industry - 
particularly the memory industry - is   extremely cyclical. You might be up 
30% one year and down 30% the next. This really sucks because there are long 
lead times between ordering and getting   paid. Sometimes as much as two years. So a 
customer might put in an order when times are   good … and then suddenly cancel when times 
get hard. Then you are in for a bad time. In such an industry, the customers really matter. 
TSMC helped get ASML off the ground by buying   their tools over the Japanese incumbents. And IBM 
helped save PerkinElmer's lithography division. ## Saving PerkinElmer In late 1989, news came out 
that Nikon was exploring an   acquisition of PerkinElmer's lithography business. Nikon denied the talks. But PerkinElmer did 
want out. Policymakers soon fretted over the   idea of American-made lithography technology 
potentially falling into Japanese hands. So did IBM - PerkinElmer's single 
largest customer. They were concerned   about being forced to use Japanese 
lithography technology. Japanese   companies were then some of 
their biggest competitors. So someone had to be found in order to take 
over from PerkinElmer. But the key point was   more than just finding a buyer. It wouldn't be too 
expensive. No it was more about finding someone   who can afford the skyrocketing capital investment 
costs of producing better lithography equipment. IBM had this new, more productive lithography 
technology. It would eventually become the   step-and-scan machine or the stepper. They 
gave it to PerkinElmer to commercialize. But who can afford spending millions 
more dollars to finish the stepper? ## SVG In comes Silicon Valley Group - SVG. SVG started off as a small equipment 
maker. They first made edge grinders   for wafers and then expanded 
into wafer coating equipment. They then appointed a new CEO named Papken 
der Torossian - a Syrian-American who   first came to the states in the 1950s. 
Torossian decided that the company had   to expand to stay competitive as the 
big guys shrank their supplier base. So he bought Thermco one of the leading makers 
of vertical furnaces for thermal oxidation.   Thermal oxidation is a way to apply an oxide   onto something like a silicon 
wafer using heat and oxygen. He then cross-sold SVG products through 
Thermco's very established user network.   This eventually helped grow the company 
and bring it to public prominence. Though   they were still very small - about 
$120 million market cap at the time. Torossian wanted to take over PerkinElmer’s 
lithography business and worked hard to   overcome skeptical feelings from both IBM 
and PerkinElmer - lobbying to PerkinElmer   chairman Horace G. McDonell. 
He eventually convinced them. So in the end, they paid just $20 million 
for a big stake to create SVG Lithography.   The new SVG also accepted minor equity 
investments from IBM and PerkinElmer. SVG Lithography took the nascent IBM 
lithography technology and with help   from Sematech eventually produced the 
Micrascan II, a DUV stepper machine. ## General Signal Meanwhile in 1988, GCA was sold to General 
Signal Corporation for about $80 million. General Signal was a grab 
bag technology conglomerate   of random stuff. Some of GCA's siblings 
included telecom gear and signal boxes. Thanks to ample amounts of financial support 
from the US Government, GCA improved their   tools' reliability and produced a machine more 
technologically advanced than the Japanese. It is estimated that Sematech infused 
some $60-80 million into GCA in the   five years after 1988. Support 
came in the form of investment,   direct purchases of GCA equipment for testing 
and feedback, and government arm-twisting. In 1990, Sematech started pushing its 
members to try GCA's upgraded equipment.   The companies resisted, but Sematech 
insisted - saying that lithography was   50% of Moore's Law and that Japan would 
never give America its best equipment. As it turns out, the new equipment 
was good. Customers acknowledged the   vastly improved quality. GCA's XLS 
series of steppers were even said to   be "world-class". The tools were central to 
achieving the upcoming 350 nanometer node. In 1992, Digital Equipment Corporation chose 
GCA tools over those from Canon and Nikon for   their next line of chips. Larry Thompson, 
head of lithography at Bell Labs, said: > From our viewpoint, the performance of 
GCA's latest DUV stepper the XLS 7800/31   indicates that GCA is at least 12 
months ahead of the competition Brian Clark of Motorola added: > GCA has made great strides 
in the last few years ... it   will be a travesty if it does not find a buyer Yet the XLS was too little too late. And an 
18-month delay in 1990 in producing i-line   lithography equipment nixed their last 
chance to take market share. By 1992,   the once mighty GCA had just 2% of the market.   And they still lost money - about $4 
million a quarter in the early 1990s. ## The Fall of GCA General Signal eventually tired of these losses. Their CEO wanted to focus on businesses 
with returns on equity over 20%.   So in early 1993 he announced that 
General Signal would attempt to sell   several of GCA's semiconductor equipment units. Yet again there was another political huff. More   grandstanding by people about 
the national security value of   an American lithography industry. But no 
one wanted to back that talk with money. Sematech scrambled to find another suitor and 
arrange another shotgun marriage. Foreigners   feared political blowback - though one of 
the Korean chaebol did kick the tires a bit. Domestic players did not really take to 
the idea. A merger with Applied Materials   might have been interesting, but for 
whatever reason they turned it down. And in terms of customers, IBM had arranged 
the marriage between PerkinElmer and SVG,   but there was no similar player for GCA. And as for government, Sematech said that they 
would not involve themselves in business rescues.   They had already spent the majority of their $100 
million annual budgets on lithography development. In the end, General Signal sold off bits 
and pieces of GCA like the lens and service   businesses. But there was no saving 
the large wafer stepper manufacturing   facilities in Massachusetts. It closed 
down in May 1993, with 120 jobs lost. ## The Last American Lithography Company With this, SVG became the last 
American lithography company. Over the next few years, SVG 
continued developing its DUV   machinery. The political environment 
surrounding Japan loosened up as   America's semiconductor comeback in 
the early 1990s played itself out. Throughout the decade, SVG was deeply involved 
in next generation lithography development.   As early as 1994, SVG was investigating new 
forms of ultraviolet light lithography - taking   some $30 million from Sematech in the 
form of a direct investment to do so. In 1996, Intel, AMD, Motorola and the 
other American semiconductor companies   signed agreements with the Department of Energy 
to found EUV LLC. This strange joint venture   would carry out EUV's development 
over the next three to four years. In late 1997, SVG signed an 
agreement with EUV LLC. They   were the first American lithography 
maker to enter the partnership. A year later, ASML and a subsidiary of the   American semiconductor manufacturer 
Ultratech Stepper joined as well. Ultratech had been one of GCA's siblings at 
General Signal. They produced a different type   of lithography machine - 1x lithography 
- for specific, unconventional purposes. ## 193 nanometers Then SVG took their eye off the ball. In the late 1990s, the semiconductor 
industry transitioned from 248 nanometer   krypton-fluoride DUV steppers to 
193-nanometer argon-fluoride DUV. In September 1998, ASML announced the 
move to 193 with the PAS 5500/900. The   transition required great amounts of 
materials engineering by Carl Zeiss   to produce a unique lens system made 
from Calcium Fluoride and fused Silica. In February 1999, SVG also announced a move 
to 193 nanometers with the Micrascan 193. They also announced a 157-nanometer project 
thanks to additional equity funding from Intel. But the Micrascan 193 suffered massive problems 
and repeated delays. In August 1999, SVG reported   that customers had canceled $53 million worth of 
193-nanometer orders. It was a devastating blow. Intel took steps to shore up confidence 
in SVG. In December 1999, the CPU giant   announced that it would purchase $100 million 
worth of 193-nanometer DUV equipment from SVG.   But the delays dragged on, forcing Intel to 
delay the rollout of their 130 nanometer node. The 193 nanometer debacle sparked rumors 
of trouble at SVG. In terms of 1999 sales,   SVG was a distant fourth place 
- generating just $270 million   in sales compared with ASML's $1.12 billion. SG Cowen estimated that after 
the August 1999 cancellations,   Intel had 90% of SVG's 193-nanometer DUV 
machine orders. SVG's advanced lithography   program was basically Intel and nothing else. It was becoming increasingly clear that 
SVG could not compete. And looking ahead   to 157 nanometers or even EUV, SVG simply did not 
have the money to bring the device to fruition. Torossian told people that it was going to take 
a billion dollars to bring EUV to the fab floor.   He had no idea how SVG was going to get this 
money. In actuality EUV would take far more. These concerns only intensified as the 
dotcom bubble burst in the 1999-2000 period,   taking down the semiconductor and semiconductor 
manufacturing equipment markets with them. ## The Merger In October 2nd 2000, ASML 
and SVG announced a merger. ASML would acquire SVG for $1.6 
billion in an all-stock transaction.   The deal would make ASML the largest 
lithography company in the industry. Behind the scenes, SVG's struggles with 193 
nanometers alarmed Intel, their biggest customer.   Intel sourced from two lithography makers - Nikon 
and SVG - and they wanted to keep it that way. If SVG were to go down, it not 
only constricted the supplier base,   but also risked disaster when it 
came to next generation lithography. ASML had successfully shipped 193 nanometers 
and was keen to have Intel as a customer. But   if Intel left, then SVG would surely collapse. 
So the best way to handle things would be   a merger. The two companies can combine 
their R&D spend and develop EUV together. ## Controversy The big problem however was the politics. SVG was America's last lithography 
maker. Sematech and the US government   put millions of dollars of investment into 
the company. ASML was a Dutch company. The   US and the Netherlands are friendly, 
but this would be a big export issue. Furthermore, one of SVG's big subsidiaries was 
Tinsley Labs - the optics system manufacturer   that SVG acquired in 1997. They were leading the 
effort to produce the 157 and EUV optics systems. The issue was that Tinsley had once been a defense 
contractor producing optics for spy satellites in   the 1990s, but SVG claimed that currently there 
was no business being done with the Pentagon. Acquisitions by foreign companies 
need to be approved by CFIUS,   the Committee on Foreign 
Investment in the United States. At first, approval seemed a slam 
dunk. The panel at the time was   seen as a rubber stamp. But near 
the end of the 30 day review period,   a group of Congressmen asked federal 
officials to do a second look. It is likely that this interruption came at 
the behest of Ultratech - the other American   lithography system integrator 
within the EUV LLC consortium. They had circulated around Congress 650 copies of   a video tape titled “Why The Sale Of 
SVG Co. Is Bad For The United States”. In the tape, they talked mostly about 
Tinsley Labs and national security.   But they also voiced concerns about 
leaving ASML with a monopoly on next   generation lithography machines, saying 
that they would raise prices on vendors. They also speculated that ASML would give 
preference to European semiconductor makers   over American ones. And that ASML might send EUV 
technology to "enemies" like China and Russia. But Intel refused to be dissuaded. 
They steadfastly insisted upon the   acquisition. Their CEO Craig 
Barrett met with President   Bush and Vice President Cheney to 
lobby for the deal. Barrett said: > Without the merger, the development path to 
the new tools in the U.S. will be delayed and,   in time, other global competitors 
of SVG will seize the advantage This is a reference to Japan’s 
own EUV efforts - then ramping   up. Which ASML and America were able to fend off. ## Close Finally in May 2001, ASML promised that they 
would search for an American buyer for Tinsley   Labs. They replaced the vendor with Carl Zeiss, 
and things seemed to have gone along fine. ASML also agreed to strictly comply 
with US export control requirements.   And they agreed to keep and invest in 
certain operations in the United States. A few months after closing the deal, ASML dropped 
development on SVG's 193-nanometer Micrascan   tool. The tool's ultra-complicated optics system 
was too slow and apparently was beyond saving.   Intel took up the Twinscan as they 
probably wanted to in the first place. In 2003, ASML sold SVG's two other 
businesses - the thermal furnace   and track businesses. Within two 
years, ASML basically shut down SVG.   They did retain SVG's R&D centers including ASML 
Wilton - today their largest R&D hub in the US. ## Conclusion Robert Noyce himself said in a Congressional 
hearing that Sematech's legacy would be in   large part remembered for how successful it 
is in saving America's lithography machines. Sematech did a great many things. It is 
in no little part thanks to them that   American companies like Applied Materials, Lam 
Research, and KLA remain leaders in their fields. But Sematech could not save the American 
lithography industry. Intel at the very   peak of their powers could not save 
the American lithography industry. The reasons behind America's lithography failure   remain up for debate. But it should be 
discussed as we enter this new era of   government-led industrial policy for 
semiconductors. What do you think?