(gentle rhythmic music) - This is not "Mystery Tech," this is "Real Life Mystery Tech." Do you see how much "Real
Life Mystery Tech" is in here? Not only are we taking a look
at how you can 3D print food and use X-rays to see inside of tech, but we also have a look at Google's multibillion-dollar
quantum computer campus. And of course, all of this
is thanks to our friends over at Toyota for
loaning us the RAV4 Prime to check out all of this amazing new "Real Life Mystery Tech." See, it's not regular "Mystery Tech," it's in the real world. So, what I'm about to see is something that's kind
of hard to describe. This is the world's
first quantum data center that Google built here in
Santa Barbara, California. So, I mean, I'm looking around- - We're surrounded by quantum computers. - Oh yeah, so are these
actual like actively running, like this is actually a real setup? - [Erik] Yes. - To wrap your head around the potential of a quantum computer, a couple of years ago,
Google published a paper where they were able to
solve a complex math problem in about 200 seconds. By that same token, the estimate was if that was running on a
"classical" supercomputer, that would be something like 10,000 years. Some recent advancements, even
in just the last month or so, have gotten the classical
computers a whole lot closer. But, the potential of a quantum computer is impossible to understate. The potential is just
not there yet though. - Classical computers
fundamentally, single bits, right? They can be either zero or one, and you can build up great
classical logic with that. Quantum computers, you have
quantum bits, or qubits. And these qubits, in some
cases, what we do here at Google is we actually fabricate those atoms out of superconducting metals. - These atoms, once they're provided
with an electrical charge, have a massive amount of states between just the
traditional ones and zeros that a classical computer works with. Which means that for
certain types of problems, they're uniquely well-suited to really sort of emulate the
way that the real world works. If I hold a plant in
my hand and let it go, just the amount of calculations
that would need to be done to correctly simulate the way
that exactly it's gonna fall, it's gonna interact with
the natural environment, is very different than the way that a
classical computer works. The computers that we have today are very good at certain things. But, emulating the real world, emulating the way that nature
works, this is all based (laughing gently) on the way
that quantum physics work. What's really crazy
about all of this to me is that these chips which
are being designed here are running at almost absolute zero. The actual operating temperatures
we have at the base plate where the quantum
processor's actually mounted is 10 millikelvin. So, let's figure out a little bit of what
that even means, right? So, we're enjoying 300
kelvin here right now. Very nice, right? If we go down to like 273
kelvin, water freezes, okay? Now, we go to like 77 kelvin, that's when nitrogen becomes a liquid. Maybe you've had like liquid
nitrogen ice cream, okay? You go to four kelvin, four kelvin is when helium becomes... The gas typically becomes a liquid, right? That's typically the
temperature of outer space. Like, if you were hanging out and you weren't in direct view of the sun, about four kelvin. - [Austin] Okay. - [Erik] So, we get a
couple orders of magnitude colder than that inside
of these systems here. - I don't think we're
gonna see quantum computers in your desktop in the
next 10 years, right? But, just like the
mainframes of the 50s and 60s were eventually shrunk down
and developed to the point where they're in everyone's pockets for $100 in a smartphone, I too think that quantum computers have an enormous amount of potential. (bright rhythmic music) This, my friends, is a Toyota RAV4 Prime, which Toyota's very graciously
loaned to me for the week so I can go and take a look
at some of the cool tech in "Real Life Mystery Tech." Let's take it for a spin, shall we? Can I get in the car? I walked the wrong direction. Let's take it for a spin, shall we? So, stepping inside the RAV4
Prime, you're gonna find basically everything
you could really want. So, not only do I have
heated and cooled seats and a heads-up display, there's also the nine-inch
Toyota audio multimedia screen with Apple CarPlay and
Android Auto compatibility and a digital rearview mirror. Oh, and I've got room for
everybody in the back too, and all our gear, which is probably gonna
be important to this one. It's easy to forget that Toyota pretty much
pioneered electrified vehicles and has put more than
20,000,000 electrified vehicles on the road, more than all
other automakers combined. The other advantage to the
RAV4 Prime is performance. Because you have both a gasoline engine and an electric motor
working combined together, this thing is properly quick. (engine revving rapidly) Next up, let's take a
look at Creative Electron, the people who do some of
the coolest stuff with X-rays I've ever seen. But while we're inside,
what a lovely opportunity to take advantage of some
charging for the RAV4 Prime. You can easily charge this battery by plugging its included charging cable into a standard electrical outlet too, which is a great option for
those with short commutes, but also works really well for road trips since you can switch to traditional gas. Now, why don't we go
inside and take a look to see exactly what Creative
Electron are all about? What you're looking at here
are X-ray wizards at work. They make machines specifically designed to give you a non-destructive look inside almost anything you can think of. For some reason, Creative
Electron trust me to actually run an X-ray
machine. (laughing nervously) Bold move, but we'll see it goes. Goodbye, Z Flip, nice knowing you, I'm about to find out
what's on the inside. Closing it up. Activate X-ray. Oh, whoa! Whoa! - [Creative Electron Employee]
You actually placed it perfectly in the center. (laughing amusingly) - I mean, I knew exactly
where I was gonna put it. So, this is the hinge. What we can see here is that that hinge is actually very, very large. And also, you can see
some of the batteries too because there's a battery on the top and a much bigger battery at the bottom. No one's in a rush, right? I wanna spend a few minutes. Okay. Look how dense the layers of the PCB are, and all of the individual little chips, and all of the individual
components you need. So, now that the expert
is running the machine... Whoa! (laughing impressively) - It's kind of a cool view. - That is so cool! - Realistically, what this is doing is we're just tracking
density with height now instead of black and white. - [Austin] Uh-huh. - About like where these frame rails are and these springs and everything. - I just wanna X-ray stuff all day now. What Creative Electron
do is incredibly cool. But, after we ran about
every piece of tech we brought with us through the X-ray, the next stop on our tour was to see exactly how they
build these machines in-house. Alright, walk me through. So, this is what a unit looks
like as it's being built, right? - Correct, correct. This is a system that's gonna be used for "armor plate" inspection. We're gonna have a robotic-actuator here that's gonna come pick up the plates, it's gonna set them in between
these two laser sensors here to do thickness measurement to make sure that it's
uniform thickness across. This will be the one and only
of these that's in existence. The first time doing
integration of this sort. - How long does something
like this take to build? - From start to finish, a few months. - You guys are wild, you guys are wild. So, this next machine is a little bit meant for
Ecommerce, essentially? - Correct, correct. So, the idea here is
this is a high-volume, high-throughput type of system. - It's almost constantly
running, basically. - Absolutely. You load that conveyor
belt full of packages. So, you'll have an operator
here kind of running the system. - Uh-huh. - It'll pop up and allow you
to choose "pass" or "fail," depending on whatever
that product type might be at the time, and then automatically
turn the conveyors back on and send it out for a
another operator downstream to be able to sort good and bad product. - If you're a big Ecommerce company, and you're processing millions
of dollars of returns a day, something like this is gonna
make sense almost immediately. Normally, when I get a
suspicious package from Wish, I just open it and inevitably get scammed. But, Ecommerce companies
have to be smarter. Even if a package weighs the
amount that it is supposed to when it comes back as a return, using this, you can see if there's something a little
bit more nefarious inside. What's the deal with... I'm supposed to X-ray a box? Is there a secret in the box? I gotta find out? - [Production] You have to find out. - Alright. (laughing amusingly) What,
what is this, is this sand? Inside, we have... (laughing amusingly) Next up, we're heading to something which legitimately blew my mind. Sugar Lab are a company
that 3D print food. Yes, you heard me right. They are printing food. It's pretty good too. So, I am here with Kyle, and
we're gonna take a closer look at what Sugar Lab is all about. So tell me, first and foremost, how did you come up with this, like where did this all begin? - Yeah, so I was a graduate
student in architecture, and I was fascinated by rapid prototyping. And so, instead of building
houses for my thesis and focusing on that, I
focused on 3D printing, and especially digital
design and how digital design would influence rapid
prototyping and 3D printing. A kind of 3D printing that I
became really fascinated with was binder over powder. So, that's when you spread
really thin layers of powder, and you add water at each layer, and that bonds the new
layer to the previous layer. And the really cool thing
about powder printing is it's pretty easy to
add color into the system, and add color at every- - You just add color to the powder. - Exactly. Well, you could color the
powder, or in our case, you can actually color the liquid binder that gets jetted onto the surface. And if you do that, you
have control over color at every pixel across the
surface of the object. And I saw other 3D printed food products and projects at the time,
but I was really surprised that they didn't incorporate color and that they weren't very precise. And I thought, "This kind of technology, this 3D printing engine,
could really be the system that makes the most beautiful,
complex, tasty, incredible, 3D printed food." - So, Will, walk me
through what you have here. So, this is the software to
actually 3D model and print? - So, as you can see, this is our chocolate covered strawberry. You can see all the little
seeds that we have in there. - So, each of these is an individual layer that the printer would
slice in to print down? - Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So, we made it like the size of a bonbon, it's like a bite size. So, once we have the
model prepped and ready, we can put it into our software here and it shows all the color. When you bake a full rack of cookies, this is pretty much the same. You can bake all that at once, we can print all this at once. - Alright, we gotta go look. Can we go take a look and actually see this printer in action? - Yeah, yeah, let's go to the kitchen. - Awesome. So now, we are finally in the
kitchen with Chef Victoria. So, these are the actual
3D printing machines. - Yes, they are, absolutely. You're looking at it in all of it's glory. So basically, I'm gonna
fill this side here. I make sure according to my print here that I have just the
right amount of sugar. - Oh, I see. - And then, level it out,
and then we're good to go. So, there's 280 cans, 1,500 layers. So, each time it passes
over, it is a layer. So, the very first thing we do is take out these two
little bars at the edge. These guys basically just
prevent any excess ink from going where we don't want it. So, those guys get pulled out, and then you can see
these guys are revealed. We give them a nice little
tap and there they are. Would you like to try? - I will try, alright. - So all you gotta do is find
one, give it a little tap, and flip it over. - So, like that? - Yeah, there you go, perfect. - They're certainly a lot
kind of firmer than I thought. - Yeah, exactly. - You'd think something with sugar, it would be like really thin
and brittle or something, but it feels fairly solid. - Exactly. - So, how long did it
take to print this batch? - So this particular batch,
because it was a full bed, it took about nine hours. - Oh, that's still pretty
fast though for printing. - It's not bad. For 280 pieces that you
definitely couldn't make by hand, nine hours is is not bad at all. - So, I'm about to attempt to use the compressed air to depowder. Do you have... Can I just apologize in advance for making a mess of your kitchen? - Absolutely, you're forgiven already. - Oh, that's a lotta air. (air blowing rapidly) Wow, that really brings the color in. Look at that! Did I get a passing grade? - Beautiful. It does, absolutely. - Alright, I'm gonna do the full one. - Alright. - Ready? Oh! (everyone laughing amusingly) I got scared! I'll maybe leave the kitchen to you. I feel like I'm not respo... I don't know what I'm doing. - You're fired, get out.
(laughing playfully) - Is there anything I can actually test? 'Cause I've been staring at a lot of delicious
looking food all day. - Oh my gosh, absolutely. I am going to have you try our strawberry, which is a tamarind/elder
flower strawberry in a ginger shell. So, gimme one sec. - That's wild. And at the office, we got
to see the 3D model of this, and I saw a ton detail. I'm like, "Oh cool, that's awesome." But, to actually see it in person, that detail really is there. - It really shows. - It's incredible the fidelity
of what you've got here. - Oh my gosh, yeah. (gentle rhythmic music) - Whoo! - Beautiful. Alright. - Just dive in? - Dive in. - You made this one, so
there's pressure here. - No pressure at all. - Oh. I wasn't expecting the texture. - Yeah. - Especially, it's nowhere near as hard as I would've assumed it is. Oh.
- Yeah. It's got just a little bit of crunch, but otherwise, it kind
of melts in your mouth. - I was about to say, that is delicious. - Thank you very much. (laughing happily) (laughing happily)