- This video is sponsored by Omaze who I partnered with to
do a giveaway of a $20,000 ultimate game PC and the
side benefit is of course it is supporting an excellent nonprofit. So definitely be sure to check it out at Omaze.com/AustinEvans or at
the link in the description. So today I'm embarking on
one of the most difficult PC builds I may have ever done, not because it is the most
complicated or difficult. But because obviously in this day and age it's kind of hard to
get your hands on parts, many things are sold out. Many things are far more
expensive than they should be. So my goal is to get my hands
on some of the budget items, not the cheapest. Obviously, you could build
the cheapest computer at any point but I wanna build the most affordable reasonable computer that you should buy for gaming right now. Alright, so that was very successful. So not only do we have our case but we also have our
motherboard, graphics, ram, SSD, oh Wait, where's the power supply? Oh, all right, I'll be right back (beep) And with that, we have all the components for our reasonable you should
actually buy this PC build. So we'll actually go through
some of the things we have because I am super excited
for what we're able to get for less than 600 bucks. So first of all, we have
this, the Ryzen 3100. Now, this is a killer little chip because at $99 it's
essentially a cut down version of the bigger Ryzen processors. So we get these same
cores into Zen 2 core, you get similar clock
speeds and overclocking. The main difference is, while this might only be a quad core chip,
it's still more powerful than like a Core i7-7700K,
which is almost $400 just a couple of years ago. This is going to be a
serious budget processor, that's only the beginning. I almost okay, I'm not gonna break it. It's only the beginning of what we have. Next we have a Asus Prime B450M-A. So this is a B450 chipset,
very standard for $1000 specifically on the slightly lower end. What I like about this one
is it's slightly upgraded, which because with this build, I don't wanna build the cheapest thing I wanna build the best thing that I can actually still recommend that's not super expensive,
this board makes a ton of sense. We also have 16 gigs of
G.Skill Ripjaws memory. 16 gigs I think is a really
safe amount because well yes you get away with eight. I don't really recommend it
now especially if you're going to use in this PC for several
years, this is much safer. And on top of that, while
it's only 3200 megahertz, it's a little bit slower
than I'd like but it was also significantly cheaper than
any other option out there. And I would gladly save 20 bucks to lose like 2% performance. We also have what I think
is a pretty solid SSD. So this is a 500 gigabyte WD Black. So not only is it PCI Gen
three we have the four or three gigabyte per second speeds. Well the thing is with 500, wow that's really it says
129, I paid $80 for that. So obviously, it's seen a discount since it first went on sale. 500 gig should be plenty of
space, you obviously can sort of expand it later but you're
not going to feel super cramped with a smaller SSD,
you're giving the exact same superfast performance as
a higher end gaming PC. And the WD Black drive is
quite well regarded pretty much across the board and
it's now significantly cheaper than it used to be. And then we have the GTX 1650 Super. Now that $165 this might
not be the most powerful or exciting graphics card in the world, but it is still going to be
enough for TDP gaming on medium to high settings. And importantly, this does have
the Nvidia NVENC encoder. So if you're planning on doing
any kind of say streaming that is going to make a big difference and because you're able to
play games pretty consistently at 1080p 60, around $580
for this entire build. It's a solid card which brings us to the EVGA 500 watt power supply. There's nothing really special
here it is an 80 plus unit that's certified power supply. Really, it's enough and
it will be certainly enough for the system. If you plan on doing major
upgrades, you might want a bit more power or a slightly
higher quality supply. But for us, I feel this
is going to be just fine. So with all that being
said, I think it's time to actually build our quarantine
gaming PCs extravaganza. It's an extravaganza, I just decided that. So we are taking advantage of
the CoolerMaster Masterbox Q300L, which is a case that we used in some build last year. The thing is, this is fairly
cheap, it's only 50 bucks. It looks nice. It's Micro ATX, which means
we're going to save a little bit of disk space. One of the cool things about
this case is that we actually have a couple of these
magnetical dust filters. So it has this sort of
pattern where you can rotate either way and just sort of
slaps on the front and the top. So this is a pretty no frills
case, we only have a single 120 mil fan inside, so you
could expand it with more fans and honestly if you want
spend a little bit of money you could also grab maybe
like a couple of rgb fans for the front or
add like a light strip. I think i might need a
screwdriver for this one. Okay, I'll just be a man and do it. So if you can't tell this is going to be an incredibly chill build. But you know what it is quarantine
time, it's time to gather around with your loved ones. Find a screwdriver and
some friendly PC parts and enjoy hanging out with
Uncle Austin as he builds a $580 gaming computer to make you uncomfortable. I just called myself uncle
Austin coz I'm definitely uncomfortable right now. And of course, if you'd like
a full step by step tutorial on how to build a gaming
PC, I actually did one very recently. I've actually shot it at
the Micro Center store a couple of months ago. So there is a 50% chance I
put this bracket on correctly and the 50% chance it is upside down. Let's see, shall we? I think it's upside, super upside down. Okay, these things happen, it's fine. So one of the only real questions I have here is on the motherboard itself. So we do have a B450 board,
it's in an Asus board, it should be fine. Unfortunately, I wasn't able
to get my hands on the slightly upgraded version, which has a
USB C port as opposed to take advantage of VGA, which is
something I don't really need. I am very excited to try this Ryzen 3. Zen has really made such
huge strides and the fact that we're able to get $100
processor that is as powerful and more powerful than
like the best gaming chip you could get just a couple
years ago is really exciting. Why is this not? Okay, I was about to go through
the chip across the room. So Ryzen 3 comes with a pretty basic wraith stealth cooler. But the thing is, this is
completely fine for something like the Ryzen 3. It will still easily
dissipate all of our heat and realistically it's as good as a cooler that you buy for like $20, $30 bucks anyway. So generally speaking with Ryzen stuff, I actually kind of like using
the base coolers especially on the lower end, goodbye little Ryzen. It's nice knowing you, enjoy your life underneath this cooler. So when it comes to
building a Ryzen system, there are a couple of things
that matter and memory is definitely one them. So you 100% without a
question want to rely on dual channel memory. So on top of looking for dual
channel, generally speaking I like to look for something
around the 3600 megahertz range, especially with low latency. The problem is though, is
because PC parts are so hard to find right now, a lot of
times those kits have gotten really quite expensive. So this was significantly
cheaper and it was only a little bit slower at 3200 megahertz. So yes, technically, we're
giving up maybe two or 3% of sort of maximum performance, but
we're also saving like 30 bucks. I think that's a very easy
trade, especially at a computer this sort of value. And the nice thing is not only
do we have 16 gigs of RAM, but this board also has four DIMM slots, which means that we can easily upgrade this to 32 in the future. I don't necessarily think you need to do that, but it's
an easy upgrade to do. Next up, of course, we
have our WD Black SSD. Now, usually when I'm using
SSDs on lower end systems, I go for pretty much the
cheapest thing I can get because pretty much any SSD
or literally any SSD is going to be better than like a hard drive. Alright, so with our motherboard
installed, this is starting to look pretty good, which
is where this comes in. So this is a cheap clearance
$10 LED stick, which normally I would not include on a build like this. But first of all, it's cheap. Second of all, we have a window. And third of all, besides
our mustered cables, this actually should look pretty nice. So with the PC complete,
I'm actually really happy with how it turned out. Not only does it look nice
inside this fairly cheap case, but that single LED
strip actually adds a lot to the aesthetic of the system. And of course, with our cable
management, being decent constraints is a cheap system. I'm really happy with just
the overall look of it. But of course, we're not here just for the look of a $600 game PC. Let's see what actually performs. All right, we are in oh yeah,
no, we do a solid 200 frames per second right out the gate. So in CS:GO obviously it is
not the most demanding game in the world. What's nice about CS:GO is this
is a game that actually does do a good job of showing how
important your processor is, right, because while yeah,
pretty much anything can play this at some level, but what
we really want to be able to do is play it at something like
100, 150, 200 frames per second and that's really where the
CPU makes a big difference. But when we're getting
200 frames per second as that not such a big problem. What is the big problem is
everyone's really good at CS:GO and I've never been good at CS:GO. So this is a good example of why gaming PC has some real advantages, right? Because with a console while
yes, technically you can get some games with these next
generations to play at above 60 frames per second but PC
it works just right out of the gate, right? I don't have to do anything,
literally if I have a monitor which isn't even that
expensive, I can jump straight into a very nice looking PC game. I'm just gonna keep dying on it. Okay, that's fine,
that's fine, I like that, it's really fun. Oh, by the way, have I not
mentioned I'm also recording the gameplay right now too. So in addition to getting
this nice, smooth performance, I'm also seeing 200, 215 frames
per second while recording. I just got killed by a bot which is just great. All right, that's what
you deserve my friend. How did I not do that, why? (grumbling) So F1 2019 is certainly
not the most difficult game to run in the world. But we're running 1080p medium right now. No, you don't know, you don't
know, you (grumbling) come on (laughs) this is a game
which is not crazy difficult to run but what we're getting
here is oh God, we're getting 165 frames per second on medium at 1080p, especially considering
them playing on a higher refresh rate display it's
actually a really nice smooth experience, I mean this is $600, right? And while I mean yeah, I
guess you could obviously get higher frame but you
have to consider that now we're getting these hundred
plus frames per second games, at 1080p or doing that all
while recording, right? Which would mean that if we were say streaming we will be getting
very similar performance, you really don't have a huge
sort of bottleneck or penalty by going with something
which is so much cheaper. It used to be that long ago,
that when you bring out at five $600 computer, it might be a
play some games like medium or whatever, but then you're
not gonna have enough memory, you're gonna have a slow
hard drive, like you used to have to make a lot of compromises. And that's simply really
isn't the case anymore, like this thing is like
legitimately really solid. Next up, we have the good
old classic of GTA 5. Now here, I'm going to run
it on 1080p at high settings. What do you think should give
us a little bit of a better sense for how this game is
actually going to perform because while yeah, for things
like CS:GO and F1 and sort of lighter Esports titles, you can get 100 plus FPS really easily. But GTA 5 was a little bit
of an older game can still be pretty taxing. Oh, wait, I'm just kidding,
this is 115 frames per second. Okay, so I'm 1080p high, not a problem, we're also getting
hundred frames per second. I know it's rare that I've been surprised by a computer being better than
I thought, but like, I think we can crank things up even farther. Now with our settings cranked
up pretty much to very high and ultra, we're in the
45 frame per second range which makes sense, right? I mean, this is like fairly
taxing, it's an open world game, it's also hitting the CPU. This is a little bit more of
a reasonable test but I mean, I will say especially
if you have a monitor with any kind of adaptive sync
40 FPS is still not terrible. And if it's me, I'm going to
crank down like this a little bit and I'm going to get a nice
smooth 60 frames per second. So the next step is to see how well this computer actually streams. So after rudely denying him
many shout outs in the past, I'm gonna let Ken have a
try with this computer, get a little Twitch streaming
action and see if it's able to hold up. - All right, so Austin,
let me have the reins with this brand new Ryzen
3 PC and most importantly, it has that GTX 1650
Super, which uses in videos and NVENC encoding to make
streaming a little easier and less taxing on your
CPU so I have my full streaming setup here. I siphoned all of my gear from
home so I have my Stream Deck my RX0 camera,
Elgato Cam Link, HD60. So we're going to be testing
out a stream, which I'm going to be doing in a couple of
hours to see what this PC can do while streaming on Twitch,
twitch.tv/kenbolido follow me and subscribe if
you guys are awesome people. So I'm playing Valorant at 1080P while streaming in 720p60
and this is going really well so I have all the settings
maxed and valorous with our setup and I'm barely dipping below 144, that's totally fine. And keep in mind I'm also
recording this stream as well using NVENC on OBS so it's
again, completely fine. One enemy remaining, ooh, here we go. Nice work guys, see not bad. - I am really happy with
how this PC came out. So of course, as always,
you can check it out at the links in the description. You can also check out our sponsor, Omaze. Now Omaze is a company that
works together with creators and industry leaders to
raise money for nonprofits. So donating via Omaze
means that not only are you contributing to a great cause,
but you're also entering for a chance to win incredible
prizes, such as dream cars, vacations, celebrity
hangouts, and of course, the ultimate gaming PC. Not only do you have the chance
to win that $20,000 ultimate dream gaming PC, but on top of that tax and shipping are included. It all goes to help
benefit Gamers Outreach, which is a nonprofit that
provides recreation to children's hospital to the power of video games in the gaming community. Using my code AUSTINEVANS50 gets you 50 additional entries. So not only will you get a chance to win, but your donation will
help ease the burden of hospitalization by
providing equipment, technology and software that will help kids cope with the long term treatment. So definitely head over
to Omaze.com/AustinEvans to enter for your chance to
win this amazing $20,000 dream PC, has it's ending pretty soon on June 9, so make sure to enter for
your chance to win today. Of course, use the code
AUSTINEVANS50 for 50 additional entries, links as always
will be in the description.