- Apple makes the wrong
decisions all the time. Have you seen the notch
on the MacBook Pros? Have you seen the fact
that they've removed the power adapter from iPhones
or the fact that they got rid of the headphone jack
as early as they did, but nothing shows that to
me, at least in some context, more than the fact that they've removed one of my favorite features, the MacBook touch bar.
- What? - Yup, yup, welcome my friends to episode one of "Garbage Town". The show are Austin upsets a
lot of people on the internet. (laughs) So why does Apple make the wrong decision? Now, when it comes to the touch bar, I think regardless of
which camp you're in, and I will freely admit
that I'm in the camp of I think the touch bar was
really good, but regardless, this was a decision that they made, that they brought out on their MacBooks, and now they've dropped. And it's something that I
think is easy to make fun of because for a lot of people, the touch bar was an
expensive, buggy, useless thing that could have easily
been replaced by, you know, regular keys, evidenced by
the fact that, you know, the new MacBooks just
have regular keys now. The touch bar is dead,
but on the flip side, in my opinion, the touch
bar was a really good idea. Now, sure, it never really
reached its full potential, but it's something that I actually use on a very regular basis,
whether it's, you know, having shortcuts in the Final Cut or I'm recording in QuickTime, I can see like how long
I've been recording, I have the buttons, or even if it's something as simple as just having a quick little slider to adjust your brightness or
the volume on your MacBook. To me, there was always
been real value there, but not everyone agrees. And I think that kind of speaks
to a larger overall point about not only Apple, but
about how a lot of times, when Apple comes out with one
of these big, bold decisions, whether it's the touch bar,
the notch, or whatever, people make fun of it. Then more often than
not, companies copy it and we forget all about the fact that it was ever controversial
in the first place. So when you look at the
notch on these new MacBooks, sure, ultimately, whatever,
the screen's slightly taller, it's probably pretty easy to get around, and, yes, it's easy to dunk on them for the questionable software support like Quinn has shown on Twitter, but I think it's worth a
thought on the notch itself because Apple is no
stranger to notches, right? They've had the notch on the iPhone ever since the iPhone X. Whereas, pretty much everyone else has gone to something like
a hole punch or whatever. They still sell the notch there and now they've introduced
it on the laptops, which for the sort of basic
surface level explanation, it's just there to give
you a larger screen and they can fit a bigger,
higher quality webcam. Objectively, a good
thing, but the size of it almost looks like why
isn't there like Face ID or something like there's
just this huge notch that doesn't actually accomplish anything. But on the flip side, especially when you look at history on how many of these weird
decision Apple's made and sometimes they're right, sometimes they're wrong about. Would you be that surprised
if two years from now we're all talking about the
new XPS 13 that has a notch or the Razer Blade or
whatever that has a notch? Probably not. There's definitely a
little bit of a history of Apple making a big decision and then everyone else being like, "That's dumb, let's get
this copied right now." There's no doubt that Apple is an incredibly influential
company in the tech space. I don't think there's a
better example of this than USB type C. Now back in 2015, when the MacBook 12 inch came out with USB-C, it was different, but also, I don't think
there's any doubt now that it was a good decision. I mean, pretty much everything
these days uses USB-C whether it be a tablet,
a computer, the iPhone. I mean, almost everything
uses USB-C these days, which is undoubtedly a great thing. Now, of course, with the
benefit of hindsight, it's easy to say something like, "Yeah, USB-C was a good idea." Sometimes, it's not quite as clear cut. A good example of this is when
Apple removed the chargers from the iPhone and, actually, a fair few of their other
products still box this, right? So it used to be, when
you bought an iPhone, you open the box, it
comes with headphones, which they've since gotten rid of, and then you would have a charger, you know, an important part of owning any kind of electrical appliance. Now, yes, the cynic would say, and I would probably count
myself among this mostly, that not selling a charger in the box is just an easy way for
Apple to charge you 20 bucks to buy the little brick that
they used to include for free. Now, on the flip side,
you could certainly argue that it's more environmentally friendly to not ship extra stuff,
which, ultimately, a lot of them ended up being e-waste is cheaper and more economical to ship, that's the same word, to
ship all these iPhones  without the chargers, but the
thing that kind of gets me is not so much the
decision that Apple made, but the reaction around it
of everyone making fun of it. Samsung, specifically,
on their tweeting out, "Ha ha ha, we still sell
a charger in the box." And then six months later,
they delete that tweet, and ship you a Galaxy S21
without a charger in the box. The Pixels do it, pretty
much everyone has done it. And it's a trend. It almost makes me kind of
reconsider the way I look at a lot of the big decisions
that Apple makes, right? 'Cause they do kind of belong
in their own sort of space where something that I might
be naturally and skeptical of, I almost kinda have to train myself to have a little bit
more of an open mind to, because, oftentimes, if Apple's done it, even though it might not seem like the right call at the
time, ultimately it might be. And it certainly has
a very high likelihood of being copied by everyone, good or bad. 'Cause as soon as Apple
does it, everyone's like, "Oh, cool, we can save a dollar and not ship the charger in the box." This portion of the video
is sponsored by Honey. With the holiday shopping
season coming up, it can be hard to look through the noise to find the best price, but this tiny little button
next to my address bar makes things a whole lot easier. Honey scours the internet
for the best deal on whatever you're looking for, from PC parts to smart
phones and even food. Honey works on tons of
your favorite websites and on average, saves users 18%, which is a very, very large amount. Now, the nice thing is that
Honey also has additional tools such as the ability to take a look at the price history on items, and with its drop list
feature, Honey will notify you when the price of an item has dropped. Not to mention, you can rely
on Honey to do the best job, knowing that it has over
500 one star... (laughs) One 500,000, no, 100,000 five star reviews, Ken. - Well, yeah.
- It's a lot of reviews. - [Ken] It's very different
from one, from 500 one stars. - No, but it only makes sense. It's the same amount of stars. - [Ken] No, that's not how that works. Honey, please don't fire me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So definitely be sure to go check out joinhoney.com/austinevans. And you'll have to excuse me,
I'm gonna go and make sure I get my one star and
five star reviews mixed, 'cause it's very confusing. I just did, this is seven. This is one, two and this is five. I think it's worth thinking about the fact that Apple is certainly not always right. So a great example of
this is the 2013 Mac Pro, the trashcan Mac Pro, if you will. This was a laptop, sorry, a desktop that I was incredibly excited
for when I first came out. It was such a cool design and there were a lot of
things, sort of technically, that made this a very impressive system. Now, like you get spec'd
out with Xeon processors with a ton of cores and tons of memory, but it was easily upgradeable. You can just slide the thing off. You could load in more RAM. I had a Mac Pro myself
that I really enjoyed and it also brought
dual GPU's to the fray. Now, this was not something
that was normal at the time. The issue here was that
Apple was designing around Intel CPUs and AMD GPUs. And, ultimately, all of those things took way more power over the years as the upgrades and the
new generations came out and the thermal design of
the Mac Pro couldn't keep up, which meant that even
though they brought out a brand new design of the Mac Pro in 2013, they never updated it all
the way until like 2020 when the brand new Mac Pro came out. Another really good example that I think a lot of people
would probably appreciate is the 2016 MacBook Pros. Those systems, while today, when you look at the current MacBook Pro has, you know, more ports
and all this kind of stuff, but that MacBook had butterfly keyboards. I always thought they were okay, but they certainly weren't
the best decision longterm for the actual sort of like feel. - And they broke.
- They broke. They broke all the time
to the fact where I think Apple ended up doing like
three or four revisions of the butterfly keyboard because they kept getting
like broken and stuff. And to be fair, I actually
broke one of mine, too, like a couple of my keys
just stopped working and the way to fix it would be
to replace half your chassis. So, look, I don't want
to sit here and tell you that Apple's always right. And if you see Apple do
something, everyone's gonna copy because they've been very wrong many times. An excellent example of this
is with right to repair. Now in the early days,
this wasn't a problem. Older computers had a lot
of off-the-shelf components and it was very simple
to upgrade it yourself or to make repairs, but
as devices have gotten more and more complex and complicated, it has become harder
and harder to pull off. And Apple has done nothing, but make this more and more difficult over the last few years. You look at something like
the last generation MacBooks or current iPhones and
they're an absolute nightmare to do any kind of repairs on it all. The way that Apple's
approached this, traditionally, has been very, very poor, but, thankfully, they've
taken their first step to making this better. It is only a first step,
but they've taken it. Apple's announced their
self-service repair program, which allows you to get access to not only manuals and guides, but also the authentic
parts directly from Apple to replace things like
the battery, screen, and camera on your iPhone. Supposedly, there will be more stuff for the Macs coming soon. This is nice to see. Now, you're certainly gonna
be paying the Apple tax on these different items. And at the moment, it doesn't seem like they're really enabling you
to do swaps between devices. So say you have an old iPhone. You want to swap over the battery or the screen or something
to a donor model. It doesn't seem like
they're supporting that, which would be nice, but
this is a case where Apple is not doing this because
they want to be this amazing, environmentally friendly company or anything like that. The real issue here is that
they're, basically, being forced into the decision between
impending regulation, especially in Europe. There's a lot of heat on
companies, such as Apple, to standardize things and
to make it easier to repair and to upgrade your systems. And while we will certainly
never go back to the old days of taking five minutes to go
and throw in a new set of RAM and hard drives and SSDs
and all that kind of stuff, like it is always going to be
a little bit more difficult today with just how
integrated systems are. It is nice to see Apple
taking a good step here. Unfortunately, this is not a
case where they are leading. It is absolutely a thing
where they're being dragged into the future, whether
they want to be or not. But there are also scenarios
of which I have thought that Apple were completely wrong. And then, well, I was the wrong one. The headphone jack is probably
the most famous example of Apple making a very big decision that, ultimately,
everyone did sort of copy. Now, I don't want this to seem like Apple was the first company in
the history of the universe to think about removing the
sacred headphone jack, right? When it comes to designing,
specifically a smartphone, there's a very limited amount
of space inside, right? You've got to fit your
batteries, your cooling, all kinds of antennas and just there's all this kind of stuff that needs
to go inside of a phone. And so I do think it was inevitable that the headphone jack
was gonna go, right? But what Apple did was
they didn't really wait for its natural time. They pushed things forward in a big way by bringing out AirPods. Now, again, the cynical side is that they removed the headphone jack and in the same breath, they offer $170 brand
new pair of headphones. Oh, boy, what a perfect solution. But now that we've got a
few years of sort of context and hindsight to look at, the
headphone jack did need to die. I do believe that that was the case. It did need to go. There were more important things like waterproofing and whatnot. They needed to be
prioritized, but also AirPods were way ahead of anything
else that's around at the time. And without the sort of impetus, because the headphone jack was dropping, to create a pair of
completely wireless earbuds, they were just as seamless,
if not, maybe even more so, to use than using your wired headphones. That, ultimately, really
drove things forward. I mean, look at pretty
much every other smartphone or tech company out
there, they sell a pair of AirPod-like earbuds, right? I mean, it took a couple
of years, to be fair, for pretty much everyone to catch up. - [Ken] So now, tell me. - Yeah?
- Apple might be wrong. - Yeah.
- And they might think they're wrong.
- Yup. - [Ken] But what do
you think of their attitude? - I mean, Apple definitely
comes off as elitist, right? Apple always come off as, "Well, we know what's best," right? And I think that has somewhat softened over the last couple of years. Certainly, it seems like
they're listening to the more enthusiastic users, whether
it's the pro market or, you know, I mean, look
at the 2021 MacBook Pro. I'm gonna keep coming back to this. This is the design where
Apple's basically gone back to what they were doing
in like 2015, right? Like when do you ever
see Apple make a product that was like the previous generation? Like they just don't do that. - [Ken] At the very least, they know that they've done wrong or at least they definitely hear people. It's just sometimes, whether or not they want to act on that is another story. - It's a complicated subject, man. It's a really complicated
subject because, ultimately, Apple is one of the world's
most successful companies of all time, right? I mean, they've clearly
gotten to that point by making some smart decisions. And who be it for us mere mortals to question the wisdom of Timmy Cook. But there are also some
scenarios in which I think that they could have done things in a little bit of a better way. When you come out with an iPhone
13 that has the, you know, the ProMotion display, it's a 120 hertz. You can't really talk to me about it as if this is sort of the coolest and most revolutionary idea
ever when I've been using a Razer phone from 2017 that
had 120 Hertz display, right? It's like, it's the way that
they position these things with so much hubris and so much
confidence and so much like, "Oh, boy, we got it." I think almost that more than anything sort of rubs people the wrong way, which makes them very easy to make fun of. And I think it's easy until
you have the hindsight to really forget that a lot of times they actually are right, but only after we've
already made fun of them and then everyone's copied them
and then it becomes normal. Do you really realize that
like, "Oh, actually, yeah. That was the right decision, wasn't it?" - [Ken] I think Apple
tries so hard and got so far, but in the end, their
mistakes never even mattered. - No one's gonna get that reference. Literally zero people.