Singapore. South Korea. Taiwan. Hong Kong. 
Together these four countries, the Four   Tigers, led the way in making 
prosperity for its residents. Each of the four tigers had deep 
roots in electronic assembly   and industry. That means assembling 
components into finished goods for export. For a first few decades, the tigers got to 
a certain level of prosperity on the back of   this industry. As the 70s came around though, it 
became clear that this industry could not last.   Manufacturers were decamping 
for cheaper places abroad. South Korea, Taiwan, and Singapore 
managed to "upscale" their efforts and   ascend the value chain. But Hong Kong   managed neither and they got left behind. This 
has had consequences that last to present day.   In this video, I want to talk about the 
fall of Hong Kong's electronics industry. Hong Kong's economy started off as a shipping 
node connecting China and the rest of the world.   British exports to China (like 
opium) entered the country here. But after the Communist Revolution, China 
closed itself off from exports from the West.   Furthermore, Chinese support of the Korean War 
led to an American embargo of goods to China.   Hong Kong needed to remake itself. It found its way with two critical goods: Textiles 
and electronics. Shanghainese textile barons,   long seeing the KMT's end on the mainland, made 
their way to Hong Kong and set up shop there.   At the same time, Japanese companies like 
Sony began globalizing their supply chains.   Hong Kong offered a cheap place to assemble 
their radio and television products. By the early 1960s, Hong Kong was the single 
biggest manufacturer in the developing world.   Building on top of cheap 
labor, liberal trade relations,   and a growing consumer culture 
abroad, Hong Kong got rich. The Hong Kong textile industry did not last long 
and rising labor costs caused them to leave for   finer grounds elsewhere. Electronics industrial 
assembly began to dominate the Hong Kong economy. For a long time, Hong Kong assumed a role like 
what China has today: The workshop for the world's   gadgets. Radio assembly, something that began with 
Sony in 1959, led to televisions and calculators. Fairchild Semiconductors, the American semi maker, 
moved its electronics assembly work to Hong Kong.   Motorola and National Semiconductor soon followed.   Motorola especially would be a critical MNC 
jumping off point for Hong Kong's future   semiconductor industry. It gave Hong Kong that 
rare opportunity to acquire foreign technology. ## The Threat and How to Respond to It This is a familiar story. Taiwan, South Korea 
and Singapore followed the same line. Well,   Hong Kong was first! As late as the 1980s, Hong 
Kong's industrial economy could be judged to be   far ahead in terms of technical sophistication 
and industry employment. Things seemed good. But if you know the story then you know what is 
coming up next. I talked about this in my two   videos about Singapore and Taiwan. For companies 
and economies who initially compete on the idea   that they are "cheaper", there is always 
another cheaper labor supply somewhere else.   Very soon your buyers are going to go abroad, 
leaving you with nothing. In order to defeat   this challenge, companies need to do two things, 
both of which involve ascending the value chain. You either "ascend" by creating 
your own consumer name brand   and going directly to the consumer. This is the 
approach that South Korea went with Samsung,   LG and Hyundai. What China is 
doing with Huawei and Xiaomi.   You win the ability to dictate your own prices 
and directly control the consumer relationship. Or secondly, you upgrade your own offering and 
create a more sophisticated technical solution.   For Taiwan and Singapore, that meant 
going into semiconductor foundry.   This is cutting edge, extremely complicated 
stuff that hopefully only you can do.   What you control here is the 
ultra-special technology to make it. Hong Kong failed to do either of those things. 
As a result, its electronics industry lost   its industry and the scar that is 
left continues to throb to this day. ## The Paths Not Taken I think everyone wants to assign blame to 
something somewhere. I get it. It is part   of the human coping process. It helps to 
have a solid thing that you can point to. But I also want to say before we embark on this 
section that success is never pre-ordained. In   fact, failure is more likely than not. Most things 
don't work out. It makes me wonder why we spend so   much time looking at when things do work out. We 
probably learn more by looking at the opposite. Okay here we go. Let us start with the Big 
Event - the founding of TSMC in early 1987.   TSMC's independent foundry model would crack 
apart the old integrated semiconductor industry   and from then onwards put 
them on two parallel paths. ## A Hong Kong Foundry? On one half you have the foundries, providing the 
industrial work of fabbing the chips. This is a   tough path that requires government-scale 
resources and military-style execution.   Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore 
embarked down this path - bringing hefty   government-backed budgets with them to the fray. The Hong Kong government did not 
encourage the growth of R&D-led   industrial upgrading within the electronics 
industry. For a number of reasons. One part has to do with that Hong Kong was a 
colony beholden to the United Kingdom. There is   a lot to explore here in terms of the relationship 
between the colonizer and colony, perhaps for a   future video, but the relationship is that Hong 
Kong's fiscal hands were somewhat tied. The United   Kingdom's own difficult fiscal situation 
post-World War II constrained its colony. Perhaps because of this, the Hong Kong Government 
adopted a fiscally conservative industrial policy   that emphasized the general macro-economy. 
They took the stance that their administration   should not pick winners or losers. They 
did not offer tax incentives to companies.   They instead focused on providing 
resources for basic needs   like transportation (MTR), 
public housing, and healthcare. A lack of industrial and manufacturer 
representation in the Hong Kong Legislative   Council meant that Hong Kong policy never 
took coherent, aligned direction towards   encouraging R&D upgrading. Dominated 
by financial and trading interests,   policy was steered towards free trade, 
low profit tax, and a "smaller" state. Larger geopolitical concerns also loomed 
over the multinational manufacturers as well.   A foundry costs a lot of money. You 
are investing hundreds of millions   and it can take years to recoup the investment.   Political concerns surrounding the Handover did 
have some influence here. But I do want to add   that they are secondary and had the administration 
wanted to, they could have been addressed. Larger than all of that was the land problem, 
as is always the case in Hong Kong. Some arms of   the Hong Kong government tried to provide land to 
help keep industrial factories from leaving. And   there are a few areas: The Industrial Estates in 
Tai Po, Yuen Long and Tseung Kwan O are notable. But at the same time, there is no denying that 
the HK government as a whole pushed land prices   higher and higher because that was how they made 
money. Sometime in the 20th century, the Hong Kong   government found itself generating the majority 
of its revenues from land sales rather than taxes. Manufacturers already struggling to compete 
against foreign competition suffered not only   from a rising cost of labor but also surging 
land rents. Thus the Hong Kong electronics   assembly industry died. Companies packed 
up and moved elsewhere - mostly to China. All that was left were the "knowledge-based" 
functions like sales, consultation, account   management and marketing. Manufacturing employment 
collapsed. Huge numbers of workers were laid off.   Hong Kongers have felt the consequences 
of this blue collar collapse ever since. ## Hong Kong's Fabless Opportunity The other half of the semiconductor industry 
would be that of the fabless semiconductor makers.   They design the chips that the foundries 
make. They manage the customer relationship.   These include Qualcomm, Nvidia, and now Apple. Countries with a pool of highly educated 
engineers with an entrepreneurial kick - the USA,   UK, Japan etc. They might not be able to 
build and host semiconductor foundries,   but can host the companies that 
those foundries might make chips for. Hong Kong could have grown a company like Qualcomm 
or Nvidia. And for a few years it seemed possible.   The Hong Kong fabless semi space held a lead 
over their rivals in Taiwan and South Korea.   Hong Kong's location in the heart of 
the consumer electronics supply chain   gave it a head start. Furthermore, 
many highly educated engineers   lived in Hong Kong. It offered a pool 
of talent for multinationals to tap. Motorola's Hong Kong division in the early 
1990s was very strong in microprocessor design.   They even took the lead in developing the 
company's Dragonball microprocessor series.   Motorola’s presence offered the 
chance to seed an entire industry. Hong Kong even had a homegrown champion of their 
own, Valence Semiconductor. Founded in 1985,   Valence began by offering layout design services 
to foreign companies like Fujitsu and NEC.   They then grew into designing 
entire systems for their customers,   with their chips finding their way 
into many popular consumer products. This all faded away however. Valence was a 
standout, but the rest of the Hong Kong semi   industry did not have the technical chops to reach 
escape velocity. Lacking sufficient know-how,   investment capital, and government 
support, the industry weathered away. Motorola decamped, scaling back their design 
center in Hong Kong and moving operations to   Suzhou, Shanghai, and Beijing. While they did 
spinoff a few smaller design shops before they   left - On Semiconductor and Solomon Systech are 
notables - these tiny shops are nowhere large   enough to train and sustain a semiconductor 
design ecosystem. Talented young engineers   would end up going abroad 
to find well-paying work. Other countries began offering attractive deals to 
bring multinational corporations to their shores.   Singapore and China are especially great at doing 
this, but India and even Taiwan competed too.   Motorola management asked Francis Ho, secretary 
of commerce and economic development at the time,   for state support in 2002 to stay in Hong 
Kong but was turned down. So they left. ## Conclusion Singapore’s officials like to emphasize 
the global competition for talents.   To me, the lesson of Hong Kong’s 
electronics industry is that no   administration should take the current 
highlights of its economy for granted. In a way I understand the administration's 
actions. They believed in a philosophy that   supported the macro-economy as a whole. 
The administration provides the market   building blocks and the market takes care 
of the rest. And I think such a philosophy   definitely can achieve success when it 
comes to certain industrial policy goals. But maybe the electronics and semiconductor 
industries just will require more involvement than   others. Your competitor governments are highly 
involved, offering market-distorting incentives   to steal away customers and more. Thus, your own 
administration needs to get involved. If every   other kid at your kid's school are getting private 
lessons from their parents after class, then you   are going to need to do the same with your own 
kids if you want them to stay ahead of the curve. There is an assumption that economies naturally 
adjust over time to industry declines.   Hong Kong lost its electronics industry but 
gained a vibrant finance/services industry.   The latter rising as the former declined. But I 
feel like Hong Kong’s general de-industrialization   has had costly human consequences for itself and 
its people. It was the loss of a big tax base,   and the losers stayed lost over time.