(chill hip hop music)
- Woo! That, my friends, was an Apple event. So not only do we have a new 14 and 16" MacBook with some of the most
powerful processors ever, but they added ports and a notch. Ken, I'm not ready. I'm not ready, thank you. I definitely needed a new pair of pants. Okay, look. This is, there's
a lot to talk about here. Number one, first and foremost is there's a new design with these new MacBooks, right? So, I've been rocking an M1
MacBook Pro since last year, and I have made no secret of the fact that I absolutely love this hardware, even though the design itself
is very much directly based on the 2016 MacBooks, the power of the Apple M1 chip is incredible, not only the performance,
but also the battery life. This has easily become my main laptop for work, home, edit videos,
I can do everything on this, but the new MacBook Pros with the M1 Pro and the M1 Max have completely taken it to another changing pants level. We're going to start with the speeds and feeds, because if you are a tech nerd, what Apple have announced
today, it's something special. Okay, so, the M1 Pro and the M1 Max share the
same general CPU layout, 8 performance CPU cores, as well as 2 efficiency cores. Now this is a big step up
from the 4 performance cores and 4 efficiency cores on the current M1s, but beyond that, they're backed up with a ton more memory,
a ton more bandwidth, and a far more powerful GPU. The spec that really jumped out to me most is the transistors. Now that might not seem like
the most exciting thing, but on the M1 Pro it has
33.7 billion transistors, more than double the M1. If you look at the Max, it has, (exhales deeply)
57 billion transistors. That is a massive chip, and it's fed with up to
64 gigs of unified memory that can go at what, 400
gigabytes per second, which is six times what
the M1 can deliver. These are numbers that
are just simply ridiculous in a laptop that can be either 14 or 16". When you look at the
performance of these laptops, you have to keep this in mind, that there are a couple of
ways that you can approach it, if you are Apple or any sort of designer. You can take a chip and run it at low power,
but make it very wide, or you can take a smaller chip,
which is cheaper to produce and run it at very high speeds. So the performance that
you actually get out of it is very much based on
turning both of those dials and with the M1 Pro and the M1 Max, they
run at 30 watts, right? That is a fraction of even
what most Intel CPU's run or most AMD CPU's run,
especially when you compare it with the GPUs, right? GPUs can easily run into
the 100 watt+ range. What this allows you to do
with the unified memory, which is an important thing, because, while the M1 Max
have a lot of performance, they top out at only 16 gigs, and that is shared between the CPU and the GPU. Whereas on these, you have a
lot more memory, up to 64 gigs, and it's a lot faster. It's two to four times faster, which means that you
can easily keep your CPU and GPU fed, and there's less performance wasted as something has to copy from the GPU and over to the CPU and then back, and forth, which helps to
improve that performance. But we've got to talk performance, because some of the stuff they quoted is straight up (child wooping) crazy town. That's the opposite of
garbage town, it's crazy town. In case you're curious. Okay, so here's the thing that I think sort of
surprised me most, okay? So they compared it to, and this is the M1 Max, this is the high-end
version of their chip. This has 1.7 times the CPU
performance at 30 watts, right? Which is a little bit of a nebulous thing, and to be fair, in keeping
with Apple tradition, all of the benchmarks they
quote are a little squishy on the numbers, but at least they gave us the actual systems they were comparing to, and I will certainly be
taking a closer look, but 1.7 times more CPU performance. Seven times faster graphics performance than in PC integrated graphics, and you get more performance than a dedicated graphics
card with 70% less power. There's a lot to unpack there,
but I think the easy way to sort of take a look at it is the Razor Blade 15 Advanced. That was one of the things that they put up in the little fine print, and they claim that it has
similar GPU performance at 40% less power. For context, that's about the same level of GPU performance as an RTX 3060, and a thin and light 14 or 16" laptop. That is super impressive stuff.
- [Ken] And you don't have to plug it in. - Yeah, they also had a whole thing about how you don't lose any performance when you're on battery,
versus when you're, you know, plugged in, which is great. These are efficiency numbers that are really only
made possible by the fact that they have this massive, massive chip. Again, 57 billion transistors. I mean, that's like taking, I mean, that's a bigger chip
than like an RTX 3090, when it comes to actual transistors. Because they have such a huge chip, they can run it at very
low, sort of clock speeds, which I think is really impressive, right? I think that's one of the
things that's easy to miss here. Especially when they throw stuff out like, it can run, what is it,
like 150 ProRes streams? I'm making that up, but
it's like, what is it? - [Ken] It's actually like 30. - 30 ProRes streams, 30 4K ProRes streams, like, come on, no one is gonna do that, but because you have this performance and you have the battery
life to go along with it, it means that not only do
you have the performance, but you also have that major new redesign
of the MacBook Pro, which surprise surprise, brings back almost all
of those same features that they used to have
on the old MacBook Pros and 120 Hertz display with a notch, but we'll get to that. We're adding ports to the
MacBook Pro, was a great line, because they have added ports. - [Ken] They're listening. - They actually are, right? So these new MacBooks, regardless of whether you're
looking at the 14 or the 16, have three Thunderbolt 4 ports, they have an HDMI, a full
sized HDMI, an SD card, they have a headphone jack that "works for high impedance headphones", which I assume means it's got a sweet DAC where you can run your giant
big chungus 9,000 headphones, and they've brought back
MagSafe. (exhales sharply) - [Ken] Need those pants? - You know what? I need one more pair of pants. Do you just, sorry, these are already, I know that I didn't put them on, but I have soiled them nonetheless. - [Ken] Soiled, soiled,
that's a different thing dude. - So in addition to the ports, and actually they've shown that not only can you still
use USB-C to charge these, but it will now do a fast
charge over the MagSafe. So I believe they quoted
50% in 30 minutes, which actually is pretty quick. The display is also majorly reworked. So not only is it a mini LED display, which is similar to what you get, not necessarily on the Pro Display XDR, even though they would
like you to believe that it's a slightly different technology, it is similar to what
you get on the M1 Mac I- - [Ken] iPad. - iPad Pro, there's a lot of Apple terms in my mind right now, thank you very much. So not only do you get the full 1000 nits of sustained brightness and 1600 nits of peak brightness, but you also get the
ProMotion 120 Hertz display, which is incredibly nice. Something I took a look at recently, or at least, a version of it, on the Microsoft Surface Laptop Studio. 120 Hertz makes a lot of sense
on a Pro Display like this. Now yes, there is a notch.
I don't get the notch. I will say, the notch is kind of silly because it does not have Face ID. You still have Touch ID, although they have removed the touch bar and they've kind of redesigned, so you have like slightly
larger like function row and all that stuff, but the notch purely exists
for the larger camera. Now, it is a better webcam. It's 1080p. It's like an f/2.0 aperture,
better in low light, et cetera, et cetera. Great. I love a good webcam. I personally don't think
I'm gonna mind the notch too much, but it's a weird choice. - [Ken] Well it's fine because they hide it
in the menu bar anyway- - They do
- and the menu bar is always persistent,
more or less on Macs. - And, they've also expanded the displays. So both the 14 and the 16 are roughly the same size as the previous versions,
as far as footprint, but the bezels have been shrunk
down pretty significantly. I just wish they would've
put Face ID in the notch, but Touch ID is fine. So because the event has just wrapped up, I'm gonna take a look and see what it's like to
actually build these 14's and 16's. Okay, so the base model of
the 14 comes in at $2,000. It comes with the M1 with a 8-core CPU and a 14-core GPU, 16
gigs of RAM, 512 gig SSD. So, you could spend $200 more to get the 10-core, $300
more to get the 10-core and the 16-core GPU, $500 more to get the M1 Max with 10-core, and 24-core GPU, and $700 for the M1 Max
full (child wooping). The nice thing is, is that you can get all of these available on the 14" MacBook, and they have talked about how they've redesigned the cooling, so you shouldn't really
lose performance going to the small laptop, which
is a huge plus for me, although in practice, there
may be some differences. $700 is a sizable jump, although
to be fair, that M1 Max, that GPU is so big that there's no doubt that it is a very expensive chip. And then for memory, you have
to do 32 gigs with the M1 Max, and you can go up to 64
for another $400, okay, and then storage goes 512, 1, 2, 4 and 8 terabyte, hmm,
that's a $5,900 MacBook. Okay, so I won't be ordering that one. I'll let Justine do that. Wow, that is very expensive. I'm curious, I wanna see
the performance differences between some of the M1 Pros and the M1 Max. That's a lot more
options than traditional, although I guess if you think about it compared to like, you
know, a couple of core i5's and a couple of core i7's
or i9's or something, it does kind of make sense. Now let's actually build out a 16 and see. So on the 16" MacBook, it starts at $2499 and you get the 10-core, yeah, so they don't do the
8-core at all on this, so at least you get the full M1 Pro. Whoa. The Max starts at $3,499, holy. So, if you want an M1 Max 16" MacBook Pro, $3,500 for 32 gigs of RAM,
1 terabyte of storage. So it's another $400 to
go to 64 gigs of RAM, I don't know if you need that, and then another $2,200,
which brings you to $6,100. So I guess the difference between the 14 and the 16, isn't actually
that big of a difference, like- - [Ken] It's really just, pick your size. - Pick your size. - And you just pay a little bit more. - Wow. Yes. It's easy to say, $6,000 laptop, ha ha ha, but, if I was gonna spec these out, like I'm probably gonna spec it out for a lot of the people
here in the office, hey everyone, you want a MacBook? - [Ken] Yeah. - $3,900 is probably
where the 16 should live. 32 gigs of RAM, 2 terabytes of storage. That is very reasonable. And if I go down to the 14,
that's actually even better. So I'm like, I'm learning this live. So if I'm gonna build my own 14, which is definitely my next main system, I do want the maxed-out M1 Max, because I want that. 32 gigs of RAM is fine. 2
terabytes of storage is fine. So I'd be looking at
$3,699 for my MacBook Pro. The big story here is what
these new MacBooks can do, and I am incredibly excited
to get my hands on them. So let me know, what do you think about all the goodness that
Timmy Cook dropped on us today? And how many pairs of
pants did you go through? That's probably the real
question that I have. - [Ken] Either that or people
are just really blinded by the notch and don't like it. - Look, if you care that
much about the notch, that's fine. I'm gonna enjoy my RTX 3060 massively powerful 14" MacBook, and I'm gonna sell a kidney and give it to Timmy Cook for it.