The hydrogen bomb is a staged thermonuclear   weapon capable of terrifying 
amounts of destructive power. The United States moved ahead with the hydrogen 
bomb as a response to the first Soviet atomic   bomb test. Remarkably, the Soviets had 
their own H-bomb just three years later. We know that the Soviets benefitted from 
spycraft to make that first A-bomb. Obviously,   it's the same case for the H-bomb too ... right? Not quite really. In this video,   we look at how Soviets scientists 
found their way to the Hydrogen Bomb. ## The Super In September 1941, the famed Italian physicist 
Enrico Fermi presented an idea to the equally   famed Hungarian-American physicist Edward Teller. The role of Edward Teller was played by 
Benny Safdie in the recent Oppenheimer   movie - which I enjoyed. The 
accent seems pretty accurate. While lunching with Teller, Fermi 
pondered aloud whether the atomic   bomb - which was then in production - can 
be used to jump-start a deuterium weapon. Such a weapon would derive its energy 
from fusing hydrogen into helium,   releasing a much larger explosion than what you 
can get with mere fission. At least in theory. There are claims that a Japanese chemist 
at the University of Kyoto named Tokutaro   Hagiwara first came up with the idea - 
supposedly mentioning it at a lecture   in May 1941. But later translations imply 
that he was referring to something else. Teller soon became obsessed with this idea, 
and pushed for its implementation. A team   at Los Alamos started talking through 
the theories in the summer of 1942. At the time, it was believed that the fission 
bomb would be an easy job. After that was done,   work can move on to the "Super" as it was called.   The whole thing might even be 
finished before the war's end. But the A-bomb turned out to be far 
more difficult to implement. So for   the next few years, they spent most 
of their resources on the A-bomb.   Teller meanwhile largely worked on his 
own, with occasional help from others. ## The Concept At the start, the idea was that neutrons and 
heat emanating from a fission-based trigger   bomb detonation can initiate a subsequent nuclear 
fusion detonation in a mix of hydrogen isotopes. To implement this, you would take a gun-type 
fission bomb and a cylinder of deuterium.   Deuterium is a relatively plentiful form of 
hydrogen with just 1 neutron in its nucleus. It is normally a gas, but takes a liquid form 
when sufficiently chilled. As those atoms fuse,   they throw off more heat energy that 
propagates throughout the cylinder. A   chain reaction occurs, eventually releasing 
as much energy as a thousand fission bombs. A secondary perk - if you want to call 
it that - was that you can arbitrarily   scale up the power of the nuclear fusion 
explosion by adding more deuterium. And   that’s scalable because deuterium 
is relatively plentiful in nature. ## Classical Super Problems Problems with what is called the 
"Classical Super" concept quickly came up. To start, a pure deuterium-deuterium 
reaction would require hundreds of   millions of degrees - more than what 
even an A-bomb is capable of. Hot hot. So the physicist Emil Konopinski suggested adding 
tritium - a different hydrogen isotope. The idea   was that Tritium can act like lighter 
fluid for a campfire. The thinking being   that Deuterium-Tritium reactions might more 
easily react than pure deuterium-deuterium. Unfortunately, tritium is also far rarer than 
deuterium. It has to be produced in nuclear   reactors. The team worked on an approach 
to get around this tritium supply problem. By the end of 1945, the team had crafted and   presented the Classical Super 
concept to their colleagues. ## Building the Super People didn't need to debate about 
whether they had to make the A-bomb. The Manhattan Project people felt that they were 
locked in a race with Germany. Its secrecy was   to make it so that the Axis powers would not 
be pushed into accelerating their timelines. Then in August 1945, the United States 
dropped two atomic weapons on Japan. World   War II had ended and the United States 
had been left with a nuclear monopoly. The world was now seemingly at peace. Why was 
there any need to produce a bigger bomb? But as   the Manhattan Project wound down, there still 
kicked around the idea of the Classical Super. ## Fuchs In the spring of 1946, a British scientist 
of German origin named Klaus Fuchs rotated   onto the project after finishing his tasks on 
the detonation systems for the atomic bomb. Since his youth, Fuchs had 
been an active participant   in communist organizations. In 1932, he 
joined the Communist Party in Germany,   which was the most significant political 
group resisting the Nazi rise. That is how   he came to Britain in the first place - 
he fled when the Nazis won power in 1938. Such a history did not prevent him from 
getting admission to the Manhattan Project   in 1944. He was never considered a first-tier 
worker there, but had a gift and worked hard. Fuchs made a few improvements to the 
Classical Super concept. His thinking   was this. If fast-moving neutrons were 
important to creating a fusion reaction,   then it might make sense to 
encase the deuterium-tritium   mix in a radiation-impervious cladding to 
keep as many neutrons inside as possible. This early conception of what we now call 
"radiation implosion" was later patented in   concert with John von Neumann. Radiation 
implosion would later play a key role in   the final, successful thermonuclear bomb 
design. But nobody knew it at the time. In June 1946, Klaus Fuchs finished his 
contribution to the Classical Super and   then left the Manhattan Project for Britain. 
After his return to the United Kingdom,   it was discovered that he had passed over to the   Soviet Union critical information on the 
atomic bomb's design and construction. He was imprisoned for eight years before 
being released to East Germany. The Soviet   Union hosted an excellent community 
of nuclear scientists prior to 1941. They would have gotten the atomic bomb 
eventually but Fuchs' reports accelerated   their progress by at least 1-2 years. Did he give 
the Soviets the keys to the hydrogen bomb as well? ## Turning to the Soviets Now, we turn our attentions away from America to 
the Soviet Union. In September 1945, scientists in   the Soviet Union began receiving intelligence 
reports about the Classical Super design. Several Soviet physicists 
had already begun exploring   the idea. One sent a memo that same month to Igor   Kurchatov (Игорь Васильевич Курчатов) - 
scientific director of the nuclear program. The memo detailed the idea of using 
the atomic explosion's intense heat   to produce helium from hydrogen - 
tapping the "energy source of the   stars". It was a fantastic insight, but 
nowhere near useful for practical use. The intelligence reports coming over from 
the United States detailed the progress   of the Classical Super design as it was in 
late 1945. An Uranium gun-type atomic bomb   as the trigger along with containers 
of deuterium and deuterium-tritium. The intelligence report also included Fermi's 
lectures about the physics behind the weapon   and a note on tritium's role in triggering 
fusion by reducing the threshold temperatures. Support for building a Soviet Super 
gained traction in October 1945 when   the London Times reported remarks 
by Prof. Marcus Oliphant. Professor   Oliphant had said that it was 
possible to make a 2 megaton   TNT-equivalent bomb - 100 times larger than 
the ones dropped on Japan. A "superbomb". Now curious, the Soviets added the 
"superbomb" question to a list of   questions for Niels Bohr. Bohr, played by 
Kenneth Branagh in the Oppenheimer movie,   had recently returned to Denmark from the United 
States. He was puzzled by the question, saying: > What does it mean, a superbomb? This is 
either a bomb of a bigger weight than the   one that has already been invented, or a bomb 
which is made of some new substance. Well,   the first is possible, but unreasonable, 
because, I repeat, the destructive power   of the bomb is already very great, and 
the second - I believe - is unreal. Bohr's skepticism aside, the American 
intelligence reports were enough. The Soviets   were already behind in atomic bomb technology. The 
Americans not only retained the atomic monopoly,   they were working on something even more 
powerful! The Soviets had to pursue this idea. ## The Possibility Kurchatov thus assigned a working group 
led by the Belarusisan Yakov Zeldovich   to examine the possibility. In December 
1945, the group reported their findings. This brief document - titled 
"Utilization of the nuclear   energy of light elements" - confirmed the 
possibility of a nuclear fusion bomb. The   group was ordered to continue refining 
an approach towards such a weapon. New reports came to the USSR throughout 1946 
and 1947 about American work on the "superbomb",   augmented with reports in the press including   a 1947 article in the Bulletin of 
Atomic Scientists by Edward Teller. In September 1947, Fuchs, who recently returned to 
the United Kingdom, met with a Soviet intelligence   officer. He told the officer that Fermi and Teller 
were working on a superbomb over in Chicago and   that it was feasible - but he had no idea whether 
the Americans were actually going to do it. He explained some of the operating principles as   he knew it, which included the use 
of a mix of deuterium and tritium. ## Getting Serious In November 1947, the Yakov Zeldovich 
group came back with their findings. Their best idea was to propagate a massive 
shock wave through a batch of thermonuclear   fuel - a mixture of deuterium, tritium 
and lithium. This appearance of lithium   was apparently included because 
of another intelligence report. The USSR Council of Ministers accepted 
this and established an office called   the Designing Bureau-11 or 
KB-11 in the secret closed   town of Sarov (Саро́в). Zeldovich 
and his team headed there to work. Shortly thereafter in March 1948, Fuchs met with 
his intelligence handler and passed over documents   with a detailed discussion of the American 
superbomb design with its radiation jacket. The documents were swiftly translated 
and sent to Stalin and Laventy Beria,   head of the NKVD. Alarmed by the seemingly 
advanced progress that the Americans had made, the   two pushed for the acceleration of the creation of 
alternative nuclear bomb designs like the H-bomb. In April 1948, Beria sent the 
documents to Kurchatov and others   in the inner circle with instructions 
to carefully study them. In June 1948,   the Council of Ministers passed a resolution 
for KB-11 to do feasibility studies on a new   type of hydrogen bomb. Fuchs' design became 
the basis for the "Tube" design or RDS-6t. ## The First Idea Meanwhile, Director Igor Kurchatov asked 
the esteemed theoretical physicist and   Nobel laureate Igor Tamm (И́горь 
Евге́ньевич Тамм) at the Lebedev   Physical Institute (ФИАН) 
to check Zeldovich's work. Tamm agreed because he believed that the 
Soviet Union as a nation needed to have   nuclear weapons - despite some misgivings about 
their country's leaders having such things. He   recruited a group of young physicists including 
a theoretical expert named Andrei Sakharov. Tamm, Sakharov and his colleagues did 
not like the Zeldovich design and began   working on their own. By 1948, Sakharov 
had a promising design which he called   the "First Idea". He did not have access to 
the superbomb documents passed over by Fuchs. The June 1948 resolution merged the two teams 
at the Lebedev and KB-11 together. Sakharov,   deemed a special worker, got his 
own apartment, which is nice. ## Layer Cake Sakharov's design - eventually 
named RDS-6s - was called "Sloika",   which literally means "Layer Cake". The name hints at how it works. Much 
of the details are still classified,   but what we know indicates that the bomb was 
a sphere about 1.5 meters wide and 4.5 tons. That makes it the same size of 
the original Soviet atomic bomb   or the Fat Man bomb dropped on Nagasaki. Inside,   we have layers of highly enriched uranium as 
well as a thermonuclear fuel made from a mix of: Lithium Deuteride, a solid compound of lithium 
and deuterium that kind of looks like chalk; Lithium Deuteride Tritide, a variant of lithium 
deuteride but with tritium also mixed in; And Uranium tamper - "tamper" refers to 
the fact that it encases the fuel layers   in order to delay the ongoing nuclear 
explosion and maximize the yield. These layers are surrounded by lens made from 
powerful chemical explosives to compress the   layers. The uranium in the outside layers 
trigger fission explosions of their own. The inclusion of the lithium deuteride came 
at the behest of Vitalii Ginzburg. He pointed   out that the lithium in lithium deuteride, when 
bombarded by neutrons, can create more tritium   which is more fuel for the fusion explosion. 
This is referred to as the "Second Idea". The end result is a very large 
fission-fusion-fission boom-boom that is about   80% fission and 20% fusion. Tamm and Zeldovich 
both agreed that the Sloika design had the most   potential as compared to the Tube/RDS-6t and 
decided to focus their work towards building it. This all took place in 1948 before the 
first Soviet atomic test in August 1949.   Unlike in the United States, there 
was no question as to whether or   not they should go ahead with a bigger 
bomb. Soon after shipping the atomic,   they took a 2-week break and went 
back to work on their "hydrogen bomb". ## Differences Note about this "hydrogen bomb". One can't 
quite call Layer Cake a real thermonuclear bomb. Yes, it did harness nuclear fusion 
to generate energy but - at the risk   of sounding like a pedant - most of 
its total energy came via fission. You would probably call it 
a "boosted" fission bomb,   where the fission explosion creates 
thermonuclear reactions which in   turn creates neutrons that help increase 
the efficiency of the fission explosion. By comparison, the proposed thermonuclear 
superbomb - the classical super concept - is   where the fission bomb jumpstarts a far larger 
thermonuclear explosion. Two distinct stages. After the war ended, Oppenheimer was 
skeptical about the technicals of the   classical Super - correctly so as it turned out. 
He instead suggested the development of boosted   fission weapons as a stopgap. Teller for his part 
wanted to go all in with the thermonuclear weapon. The first Soviet atomic bomb test - 
RDS-1 - changed the conversation. The   Americans not only realized the end of 
their brief nuclear monopoly, but also   doubted their ability to predict the speed 
of progression of the Soviet nuclear program. There was a great debate on 
how America should respond,   which I shall skip over. In the end, in 
January 1950 US President Truman orders   the accelerated development of the superbomb. 
The order hits the news and travels all over. ## The Problem The key issue with achieving a staged 
thermonuclear weapon - the idea that   everyone has been pursuing 
since the very beginning - is: It takes a massive amount of energy to get the 
deuterium to fuse together. How are we going to   deliver enough energy to that deuterium and reach 
that trigger point before it dissipates away? As Edward Teller and his team worked on this 
problem, the Soviets were responding to Truman's   order to build the superbomb. Zeldovich and 
his team present the RDS-6s design and are   authorized to move forward with a prototype by 
May 1952 with the test detonation a month later. This timeline turned out to be a bit ambitious.   Many experiments and technical issues 
had to be overcome. So after a while,   the team was authorized to delay the 
Layer Cake prototype explosion by a year. ## The 1953 Test The detonation of the RDS-6s prototype 
was scheduled for August 1953. The year leading up to the test had been a 
tense one, with back and forth between the   United States and the Soviet Union about which 
country had the upper hand in nuclear weaponry. In November 1952, the US detonated 
Ivy Mike, considered the first test   of a staged thermonuclear device. It 
used the famous Teller-Ulam design,   a breakthrough design that successfully solved 
the problems associated with energy dissipation. Ivy Mike yielded a 10.4 megaton 
explosion, 700 times larger than   the Little Boy atomic bomb. However, 
the device itself weighed over 70 tons,   was the size of a two-story house, and 
cannot be practically used as a weapon. Nevertheless ￼Beria and the government put 
immense pressure on the scientists to come   up with a response. The NKVD director sent two 
mathematicians to KB-11 as "replacements" if   things did not work. And he reportedly said 
to the KGB General in charge of the program: > When we Bolsheviks want to get 
something done, we close our eyes   to everything else ... you’ve lost your 
Bolshevik edge. We won’t punish you now,   and I hope you’ll correct the error. But don’t 
forget - we have plenty of room in our prisons Pleasant fellow. In August 8th 1953, a few days 
before the detonation, Georgy Malenkov told the   Supreme Soviet that the United States shall 
not have a thermonuclear monopoly. Listening   to his speech on the radio, the scientists 
realized that this bomb better work. Or else. Four days later, Kurchatov started 
the countdown at the Semipalatinsk   test site (Семипалатинск-21). An observer recalls: > The intensity of the light was such that we 
had to put on dark glasses. The earth trembled   beneath us, and our faces were struck, like the 
lash of a whip, by the dull, strong sound of   the rolling explosion. From the jolt of the shock 
wave it was difficult to stand on one’s feet ... Tanks had been tossed like toys. 
A 5-kilometer wide lake was left   behind. Birds fell out of the sky, 
their wings burned off and their eyes   blinded. RDS-6s - called Joe-4 in the United 
States - had been a successful detonation. ## The Third Idea Soviet scientists estimated the RDS-6s 
to have a yield of 400 kilotons. An American evaluation at the time judged it a 
"boosted fission device" and thus incapable of   scaling to arbitrarily high yields like "true" 
thermonuclear devices can. But unlike Ivy Mike,   RDS-6s was small enough to be used as a real bomb. Soviet weapons designers at first believed that 
they could eventually scale up the Layer Cake   design's yield to 1 or 2 megatons. But 
they later did hit practical limits in   how large the device can be while still being 
efficient with its uranium-235 and tritium. At this time, the team was chasing a far more 
compelling idea. While working on the Tube - which   had been inspired by Fuchs' 1948 material - 
scientists began talking about using compression   to heat the thermonuclear fuel to millions of 
degrees and thus trigger a fusion reaction. This idea of compression came from 
a Lab director, Viktor Davidenko,   who repeatedly espoused it. But how 
to do this so-called atomic implosion? For several weeks, scientists played around 
with using the trigger atomic bomb's shock   wave or material explosion 
to achieve this compression. Then in the Spring of 1954, several 
scientists independently realized   something. During an atomic explosion, the 
majority of the released energy comes in   the form of X-rays. What if you can conduct 
this radiation energy to do the compression? This idea gained traction and was 
sent to the local computer center   for simulation and verification. Known 
as "Sakharov's Third Idea" - though   Sakharov was not the only one to come 
up with it - the idea is in line with   the concepts behind the American 
Teller-Ulam hydrogen bomb design. There is no indication that the Soviets 
used any intelligence from the US. It   came about organically. Fuchs' design 
had concepts of radiation implosion   and was sitting there in the open. But 
neither the Soviets nor Americans used   it and its significance was 
not recognized until later. Work on the more efficient Layer Cake and Tube 
bombs were abandoned. The Soviet team crafted   a physical design to fully implement 
this concept of radiation implosion,   leading to the device called RDS-37. 
The infrastructure and supply chain   work done for Layer Cake contributed 
to the device's rapid development. RDS-37 was detonated in November 22nd 1955 
at a yield of 1.6 megatons. The two phases   of the explosion can be seen in photographs. 
The Soviet Union had achieved the hydrogen   bomb and parity with the United States far 
faster than anyone in the West anticipated. ## Conclusion It is said that Ivy Mike's fallout helped 
point the Soviets towards how the bomb worked. Analyzing the fallout from 
the blast would have shown   the presence of elements with nuclei 
exposed to high numbers of neutrons,   via compression. And that would have revealed 
the design secrets behind the Teller-Ulam design. This is a compelling theory. However,   subsequent reviews of contemporary 
archives insist that the Soviets did   not have sufficient skill or technology 
to take these radiological measurements. What Ivy Mike - and the subsequent 1954 Castle 
Bravo detonation - did do was to tell the Soviets   that such a massive weapon was indeed possible. In 
order to achieve such yields, something else had   to be going on. And in many cases, an awareness 
that something else is going on is enough. Looking back, Soviet scientists feel immense pride 
in their achievement. In only a few short years,   they had closed the hydrogen bomb gap with 
the United States. And in their minds, their   work prevented a nuclear war. The rivalry between 
the two superpowers had now entered a new stage.