- We've all seen bootlegs. But today we're going to find out who is better at building
a bootleg gaming setup. Ken, with with AliExpress, or me with the good old standby, wish.com. I wish I'd find some good items. Uh, excuse me. For adults only, Wish After Dark. What is this? Is this gaming? Oh! Oh, oh, oh. Sorry, that's not gaming at all. With a $250 budget each, we're not really testing
the kind of hardware, right? So we can pick a PC or
a console if we want. The real thing here that
we're trying to find out is, is it better to get our accessories, all our peripherals from
AliExpress or from Wish? - And we're judging each other's setups. So no shenanigans here. We just need to prove which one's better. - Oh, okay, now this
is a little bit cooler. An RGB light stand. So now only can I load up my Series S, I can also charge a
controller and RGB it up. Am I just building the ultimate
Xbox Series S right now? (laughing)
(dramatic music) Ah, what the sh, what? Who wants their kid to look like this? This is a expansion module
for Series X and Series S. It's $15. Now, wait a minute. For 15 bucks, can I get myself a module, and then load up like a
small, like PCI, like 2230 SSD and expand the storage in my Xbox? - So I know with AliExpress you can get some weird PC accessories like LCD screens that you can put in your window, or really neat lighting stuff. So that's kind of what
I wanna find here first. This is a $54, 7.9 inch,
1280 by 400 LCD screen. A DDR pad. Yeah, these are for PC. Holy crap. Wait, why does that have RCA at the end? Maybe if I bribe him with
Pokemon cards from AliExpress, he'll like to set up a lot. Thick, Detective Pikachu. (laughs) Oh, it has got Ash's hat. Oh, actually that one, that one. There's a lot of stuff that I can get. I'm actually gonna
continue this off camera 'cause I have a lot more money to kill. So I got all of my stuff
in from AliExpress. - I can't wait to see this. - Yeah, I mean, okay, so there's a bunch of the normal stuff. So we got a bunch of peripherals. - Okay. Okay, let's start with that.
- For PC gaming. So I have, I believe this
is something you'd like. - You got something that I would like? - Yeah, I gotta pander a little bit, because we are judging ourselves, right? - We're judging each other, really. - Yeah, so first of all... - Oh, that's cute. - Yep. A cute Pikachu mouse pad. And it's actually pretty big. It's a little narrow, but not, no worries.
- No, it's fine, it's fine. - Yeah, look at him, he's adorable, right? - Yeah, he looks very squishable. - Yeah, says Pikachu as well. - I also know you're a fan of the Z Flip5. - [Austin] Indeed. - So I got you some cases. - Okay. I definitely use a case with my Z Flip. 'Cause I mean-
- Yeah. - When you have the screen inside, you still wanna protect it with a case. - [Ken] The outer display as well, it's- - Yeah, yeah, yeah. Totally, totally. So we've got a little, okay, this one's actually kind of cool. - [Ken] It actually
kinda looks like you're, I mean, you're using the phone
the wrong way, but. (laughs) - Well, how would you do it then? - No, no, I mean like it's
on the outside, so it kinda- - Oh, it always has to be like that. All right, that is actually pretty cool - For the mouse, 'cause
we have a mouse pad out, I have the Redragon Storm Pro. - Oh, that's actually,
that's a good mouse. - So for 27 bucks, this thing
feels relatively lightweight. I feel like for it
being a honeycomb mouse, it could be a little lighter. - Hold on, 27 bucks. Wired, right? - Wireless. - 27 bucks for a wireless
gaming honeycomb mouse? - Yeah. - Actually pretty good. It's a little heavy, though, I will say. The 27 bucks, you cannot
complain about that. - But also there's something- - What is this? - [Ken] So I got a Royal
Kludge, terrible name. Royal Kludge keyboard. - Can we say that on YouTube? - [Ken] Royal Kludge? - Just careful how you
enunciate that one, please. - I think you need to check
your septic tank for that. So for 39 bucks, what are we getting here? - [Austin] Oh, snap, that
actually looks, that looks nice. - Oh, holy, whoa.
- For 39 bucks? (button tapping) Bro. - Wait.
- Bro. I mean... - That actually sounds
like it was worked on, too. This is actually the best $39
keyboard I've ever bought. (laughs) I wasn't expecting
it to be this good. - [Austin] You see it
even has a little icon to light up if you connect it to a Mac. - [Ken] Yeah. - Or you switch over to the Mac layout so you actually can immediately
tell what you're using. - Oh, wow. Oh, it even has feet to,
oh, different, different- - Two levels? - Different stages, whoa. USB-C. So that's the thing about AliExpress is that you are able to find
some really niche gadgets that aren't at a crazy price. I bought myself one of these,
which I have gotten for us at Overclock before, but
I figured I'd do it again. This is a 7.9 inch LCD display. - Oh, that's, oh, getting the cool stuff. I wasn't expecting you to
bring the heat like this. - Yeah, so the idea here is that you can plug this into
your computer via HDMI, and you have yourself
a neat little display for productivity. Some people like to plug this in and keep it in their PC case or off to the side to show
CPU temps and whatnot. - And the way I understand it is, like, these weird little displays are often made for like
automotive use and whatnot. So there's like all these
like weird shapes and whatnot. And basically this is just
a little, like, metal, like, sort of frame for it. - I got a bunch of other gaming things. We have a wireless pro controller. - [Austin] A Switch controller? - It, I believe, is Switch and PC. So mainly obviously for
PC in our context here. - Oh yeah, definitely, 'cause it looked, they have it basically
plugged into a Switch dock. - Yep. And then I also got this. So I have two pairs of headsets here. This one is an IEM, which
I'm sure probably will sound varying degrees of good or okay. (laughs) - [Austin] Yeah. - But there's a little jack on there. - What? Wait, wait, wait. Why? - For your mic.
- Oh my God, bro. (Ken laughing) Bro, you're plugging a
mic into your earbuds? What the hell, man? Normally I would look at this
and go, this is really dumb. AliExpress, though, is the kind of spot where you can kinda find
this sort of nerdier, more technical, weirder gadgets that you might not find
in a lot of other places, or at least not as easily. - Yeah. - So I actually think you've leaned into kind of the strength of your platform. - Yeah. You know what also looks pretty good? My other gaming headset, which has a- - [Austin] Why do you have two? Why do you have two? - Because I had the money for it. This was, I think this was,
like, less than five bucks. $3.50. - $3.50? - I was like, why not? I could get more. - Okay, actually that's for $3.50, yeah. - Oh, is that metal? - Oh, it's got a little smile on it. Look, it's got a smile on it.
- Yeah. But it's, that's metal. - No, no, not this. This. - Yes, metal, not metal. - So metal reinforced chassis
doesn't make any weird sounds. - [Austin] Is it fifine? - It's fifine. Are you feeling fifine? - I would say the passive is fifine. It's actually not that good. It's, like, okay. They're quite comfortable though. They feel light. How much were these? - [Alex] 40? - Oh, you spent $40?
- Oh, yeah. I splurged a little bit. - Ooh, I dunno man, I dunno. - But look, look. So you have a microphone here. It attaches on.
- Of course you do. - And we also have a 7.1
surround sound remote. - [Austin] What? No. - Yeah, because of-
- Oh, wait, because- - Because it has a USB- - Wait.
- So it's a DAC. - What? What, wait, so it's AUX,
but it's got the DAC. What the hell? The 7.1 I always find is a little dubious. I mean, eh. - You'll get directionality. - But you get a little something. - You're gonna like this one. - [Austin] What is this? - Can we dim the lights? - Oh no. - A little bit, like halfway? - Oh no, what's he doing? Okay, all right.
(Ken laughing) All right, that's pretty cool. - And the last bit for
our gaming setup is... - Aw.
- A pixel display. - All right, all right, all right. So Ken, you are out here with AliExpress building a high-quality PC gaming setup. But I chose to go a different route, because I chose to go
with the budget special, the Xbox Series S set up. - Wait, the budget, wait.
- Yes, my friends. - (laughs) Of course he
picks the Xbox Series S. Though maybe that's because
there's nothing else on Wish? Don't feel good about that, though. It is definitely a cop out. Is that a kilo? (laughs) - What? What's that? No, it's 0.26 kilos. First up we have my Game Player. - [Ken] Wait, what? - Now, look- - [Ken] You have your game player here. - I'm a big fan of consoles, so I wanted to get a Switch Lite knockoff for the low, low price of $30. Wish, Wish has got my back. This is a baby Switch Lite. It was supposed to be purple, and I'm realizing that it's blue. - Oh, that's awful. - Yeah. - Oh my God, it rotates. - Yeah.
- Oh, that's awful. You know what's amazing? - Yeah. - Is they wanted to rip
off the Switch Lite so bad, they gave you the plus and minus buttons. But they're not buttons. They're just there. - Really? They're just there. (laughs) - Oh my God, you're right,
those are fake buttons. (Ken laughing) Bro, come on. Hey, it's doing a thing. Oh, okay, wow, that's quite the interface. - Oh, I love the PlayStation Vita. - Okay.
- Oh, here we go. - So we got Super Famicom,
Mega Drive, NES, MAME, Game Boy Advance, Game Boy Color. I am gonna play Catwoman. I bet you this emulation is
gonna be so high-quality. Oh, it stretches it. What the, okay, I hate
anything that stretches. Like, you can't play like a Game Boy game stretched to 16:9. (dramatic music) Look how bad the emulation is though. There's, like, literally
like weird like artifacts. - Oh, they're like scans.
- Yeah. - [Ken] Scan lines and stuff, oof. - But look, 30 bucks,
man, that's not bad, and- - Except for every bad
thing you said about it. - No, remember, $30. Ken, what do you need
for a good gaming setup? - Skills?
- RGB. - [Ken] Oh, okay, okay. Tell me more. - Now, not only is it RGB, it also is a wireless charger
for your cellular telephone. It's widely compatible
and safety protection. What more do you need than
some safety protection? Am I right? Woo.
- Ooh, okay. - [Austin] Fast one. - This fast wireless charger isn't compatible with your phone. So you're charging at standard speed. - Well, you know what? Ugh, gross. The console, it's touching the ground. I mean, table, ew, disgusting. So I've got feet. Now, you might laugh. No, no, no, don't, you might just laugh and be like, "Oh, ha ha ha, hilarious. You just bought some feet." Oh, but these are no
ordinary feet, my friends. And trust me, I'm a feet expert. Can we please turn the
lights entirely down to 2%? Hang on, one minute, I
just gotta warm it up. I just gotta get nice and bright. Look at that. Glowing in the dark. Honestly, this might be
the item of the video. As we all know, you are not a real gamer unless you have one of
a checklist of items. RGB, poor taste, and a
gaming-themed T-shirt. - Oh God. Gamer nutritional facts. It's already ripping. - Ah, hey, hey. - (laughs) Wow, that is,
uh, not a flattering cut. - I like ya cut, G. - Ken, what's something you've always wanted do with your life? - I always wanted to be an astronaut. - Did you really? What if I told you that you could live out your childhood fantasy? - [Ken] Really? - I got Elon's number. He's looking for one-way volunteers, and I put your name down. - [Austin] Okay, you know,
the padding only works when you don't drop it. - A shooting, a galaxy star projector? Wow, you actually were on the nose. - You're gonna fly through your dreams with the help of some hallucinogenics, and you're gonna have a great time. - Whoa!
- Whoa! - [Austin] Oh my God, Ken,
is that the Milky Way? - It's a way. - I see Jupiter. - I see Mars.
- Oh, careful Uranus. - Oh, well, that one, that one... - You always have to be careful of Uranus. - [Ken] Jesus Christ. - There's always something
magical, you see, when you take a deep look into Uranus. - [Joanna] Okay, stop. - Get some help. - How about a wireless mouse? - [Ken] Ah, there it is. - Look at how high-quality this mouse is. That is-
- What, what? - There you go.
- What? What? - I was influenced by one of
the greatest modern inventions that I've ever tried,
which is the Magic Mouse. As we all know, Jony Ive
got it right the first time, and every other mouse
since then, pretender. - No, no, no, no, no, no,
you're onto something. I'm not even kidding. You're actually onto something. This-
- I know. I don't say things for no reason. Ken, what's a problem
with the Xbox Series S that you wish that I could solve but has been so far
impossible by human hands? - Uh... - I knew it, we need more storage space. So that's why I got this,
the Xbox Matrix SSD adapter. - [Ken] Wait, what? - Yep, so it's made for Xbox. So instead of spending thousands,
if not millions of dollars on a expansion module
that is super expensive, you could instead roll your own. - Did you also buy an SSD off of Wish? - I, uh, yep, I did. - Where is it? - I don't know. I wish it showed up. - Did you actually
order one from Wish, or- - Uh-huh.
- Oh, okay. - It said delivered, three weeks ago. Consider this though. At $15 plus the price of a very
cheap SSD that was like $20, you could get yourself a
full power Xbox Series S or X with terabytes of capacity, depending on how big of
a drive you put in here. So this is my 256 gigabyte M.2 SSD. - Wow, you can fit half
of Call of Duty in that. - Well, yeah, that's probably true. It should be very easy to do. So we've got ourselves a little adapter and we've got our M.2 SSD. But look how simple this is. I've got this knockoff Wish SSD module, which just plugs directly
into my Xbox, just like so. - Oh, there you go.
- Boom. - [Ken] Okay, okay. - And when I fire up my
Xbox in two to four minutes and try to format it, it's
sure is gonna work super good. - Yeah, I'm pretty sure
that's not gonna work. I've seen people try these
to no avail, but go ahead. That's, uh, (laughs) good luck, buddy. - Next up we have a keyboard. As you can see, very
high-quality keyboard, but it has a secret. - Yeah? Oh, fun.
- Deployable wrist rest. - Okay, the space bar is okay. Stabs are fine. Everything else kind of, eh. This, oh, it's another cooling fan - Because Ken, you gotta keep it cool. - Woo, that's a boy. (laughs) Is it supposed
to move around like that? - Well, you know what? Beggars can't be choosers. Let's just take a look to see if it works. It's a bold choice to make it slightly larger than the Xbox, but just by enough that
it's a little awkward. There we go. Look at that. - Wow.
- It's beautiful. - [Ken] It's almost like
it was built with it. - Now, I will say that we are comparing not only just how creative Ken and I were, but also ultimately how good wish.com, a site I am a little too
intimately familiar with, compares to AliExpress. As much as I hate to admit it, Ken did find some very unique tech. - All right, so this is the
completed AliExpress setup. - [Austin] Pretty good, man. - Yeah, so there's a
mishmash of stuff here, but I think the idea is that AliExpress gave me a whole variety
of stuff to work with. - You've got some real value. But I think what kinda
stands out to me here is that you just got a lot
of unique items, right? - [Ken] Yeah. - [Austin] Like this
little display is unique. This keyboard is phenomenal for the price. - [Ken] Yep. - I mean, I'm maybe not like a huge fan of, like, the pixel display and whatnot, but it's pretty good. So take a look at my setup. What you're gonna find is an expertly, artisanally crafted amount
of gaming peripherals. So what we've got here,
starting from the bottom, glow-in-the-dark feet. We've got a RGB stand, because of course it's not
real gaming if it's not RGB. Tons of extra USB ports, including a, it's not a charger, but I
can set my controller there and it looks neat. We also have a fan. Look at the RGB on my fan. It's got USB ports. It's got, oh, wait. Sorry.
- Oh, sh- Okay.
- No, no, it's okay. Hang on, no. And plus-
- Oh, oh, oh. - Yeah.
- Can we try this? - No, I don't think we need to do that. What? Try what? What, what do we try? - The expansion SSD. - Well, that's more for decoration. Oh, don't do that, don't,
oh, no, don't, don't. Ken, no, don't, don't, don't, don't do it. (groans) - Oh, I mean, it recognized it was there. - It's, well, you know, you probably should get
the correct SSD for it and make sure it's formatted right. But it's fine. Honestly, I wish I would've... (laughs) - Now that I can actually
see my setup in person, the style is a bit mishmashed, which seems to be a point of contention, I think, from Austin. But I'll say with his Series S setup, he basically just built the ultimate, like he's done with every other console, but it looks even worse
than normal. (laughs) All right, let's play some Valo. The keyboard feels really good. I like that the switches feel light. - Yeah. - So especially for an FPS
like Valorant, it feels good. It isn't really helping
me game all that better, but I don't think I'm being
held back by the peripherals. I think it is just the room that I'm in, my skills, whatever you want to call it. Oh gosh. - It's good. And look at this, look
how smooth my 60 FPS is. It's so smooth. I only have like a few
milliseconds of input latency. - Yeah, I mean, it's an
Xbox Series S alright? - Look, you gotta say this, it's not bad. - No, I mean, like,
it's decent performance for games like this, honestly. Get the full 60 FPS, the
graphics look decent. Yeah, no, no. Like I, joking aside, I
really do like the Series S. - You could get a 120
FPS right now, you know? - Yeah. - [Joanna] Yeah, but none of that had to do with Wish. - What?
- Yeah. - Well-
- It's true. - But, no, but you're being inspired by how cool my Xbox looks, by the fact that you could
play two games at once, and that when you're done, you can use your mouse and keyboard to use Microsoft Edge on the Xbox. If you play Fortnite with
that mouse and keyboard. - You can play Fortnite
with mouse and keyboard. - It's really fun. - So now all that's
left is for us to decide which setup is better. We've got Wish, which has a
lot of RGB and colorful lights, or we've got AliExpress, which I'll say has a
lot more functionality. - I agree. Like, I kind of wanted
to give Wish some hope because, you know, you can
find some deals on there if you try very hard. But I think AliExpress is a real store. - Yeah, that's a problem here. AliExpress, I will just
admit, is straight up better for something like this, because you can find some
neat little gadgets on Wish. The problem is all of
my stuff is so gimmicky. You have a great keyboard,
a solid controller, good mouse, a phenomenal little display. I mean everything you've
got is actually good. - My stuff are gimmicks too, to be fair. But they actually work
and function pretty well. - Yeah. I'll concede that in
this particular battle, AliExpress is the very, very clear winner. Thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe to the channel and ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling button. You can also check out Ken over on Denki, where you build nothing
but Temu setups now. And until next time, stay safe out there, and be careful of wish.com. I will learn my lesson eventually.