- If you've been shopping
around for a new gaming device, whether it's a PC or console, you've definitely noticed
just how expensive the market has gotten. How in the world am I supposed
to play the latest "Halo" when there are an infinite
number of scalpers, but in this dark era, a new
kind of segment has emerged, one that I believe will change
gaming forever. (coughs) Since the very beginning
of game development, there's always been a race to have the fastest
hardware around, but lately, there's been a new trend toward
taking a step back in power and shrinking down that gaming experience. One example of that is the Xbox Series S. Unlike its bigger brother,
this little box sips power, plays everything that the
Series X does and comes in at the low price of $300. Almost more importantly,
it actually is $300. I've seen it on store
shelves several times, and while it's usually available for MSRP, other scalpers have
taken things like the PS5 and the Xbox Series X to
routinely hit $700 to $800 or even more. With the availability of the
S, the question really is, is the Series S that much
worse than the Series X? Now, there is a considerable
difference between the two. Although the CPU's are nearly the same, the GPU and RAM have been
cut down significantly. Because of this, the Series S tends to
target lower resolutions, like 1080P instead of 4K on the X. However, what is it like in real life? Can you even tell the difference
between the $300 Series S and the $800 Series X? So now, we're going to
determine just how much of an upgrade you truly get by
going from the Xbox Series S to the Series X. Jared has put together a simple test. Can we tell the difference
between the Series S and the Series X? To make things a little more fair, we're on a 24 inch 1080P
monitor, because on paper, there should be a massive
difference in power that goes far beyond just running it HD. First up is console A,
running "Halo Infinite." - [Jared] No, no, no,
you can't get that close. - It's 1080P.
- You can't get that close. - The same amount of pixels.
- No, no, no. You've gotta stay three feet away. Pixel peeping is cheating. Do you think gamers are really doing that? - Yeah.
- No. - Even though the Series
X is outputting at 1080P, it still can super sample from 4k down, which theoretically gives
a cleaner, crisper image. First thought. I saw a little texture pop in there and I'm seeing some aliasing,
so you see in the back here, it's out of focus. Some of those lines, like right over here, it's a little aliased, which would make me think
that we're running at 1080P as opposed to anything
that's being super sampled. Oh God, oh God, oh God,
oh God, that was bad, that was bad, okay. I'm pretty heavily leaning
toward the S right now, but I will make my final
determination after switching to console B. Oh, that's X, X, X, definitely X. Yeah, so I can see the super sampling. Console B is the Series X. Well, to be fair, I'm
playing on a different map, so it's not a perfect
one-to-one comparison. - [Ken] How confident are you? - I'm 80% confident that
I'm on a Series X right now. - All right, so this is console B, right? - Console B. - Okay, if this is a Series
S, it looks really good. - And remember, this is
theoretically with the Xbox Series X being three times more powerful. (laughs) - [Austin] Find the extra
pixels there, chief? - That's chief. My name's Ken. (group laughing)
(upbeat music) - I'm not responding to that. I'm not even gonna... - Ah, no, this has to be Series S. For example, this rope, there's definitely some
aliasing going on for sure. It doesn't seem as high resolution. - [Jared] See, that's the fun thing about video game graphics, is every time someone needs
to point out a difference, they're like, "Look at
this rope." (laughs) - So the first game, "Halo Infinite," you guys were both absolutely correct. - [Both] Yes. - It was subtle, but there were differences
that you could spot. - So now, I want to say, I
was maybe about 10 feet away, which is way farther than you
wanna be from this monitor, but even just from that distance, I could not even tell
there was a difference between the games, it was identical. - The main thing is that
for "Halo Infinite," maybe not so much in the campaign context, but the multiplayer context, that detail won't necessarily matter. You can argue maybe slight
competitive advantage to see more detail, but honestly, I think that for 300 bucks, especially getting into next
gen titles and it playing at a constant frame rate, yeah,
it absolutely looked fine. - This video is sponsored by "Mech Arena." "Mech Arena" is a mobile shooter
that puts you in the seat of your very own mech to fight
competitive battles online. I really appreciate
that it's extremely easy to pick up and play. It only took me a couple of
minutes to learn the controls and it's really quick to get into a game when you have just a few minutes free. There are tons of mechs to
choose from, including Killshot, which is by far the fastest
mech in the game, and Panther, which is a little bit harder to play, but when you get it right, it
can be absolutely devastating. I am not exactly the biggest fan of super fast paced FPS games
when I'm using touch controls, which makes the speed of "Mech
Arena" feel just right to me. The game also runs great
on tons of devices, but it allows you to crank
the graphics up all the way to ultra at 120 FPS, if
your device can handle it. Right now, "Mech Arena" is having their Mechs Are Here event, where they raised $100,000
for charity, and of course, they've got new content coming soon, including up to 12 new pilots for you to customize however you like. It's completely free to play
on Android and iOS right now, and you can use my personal
link or scan my QR code to get 50,000 credits, three gold crates, and one exclusive mech to
help kickstart your game, and if you're quick, you
can add me as a friend too. So what are you waiting for? Head on down to the description and start playing "Mech Arena" today. Next up, we've got "Forza Horizon 5," a game that both Ken and
I are very familiar with. - Wow, this is 30P, ladies and gentlemen, but that looks quality if
I've seen quality before. I think this is Series S, but I do want to see what
the other version is. - All right, ready? - Series X. - It's been seconds. - Dude, the car detail is way better. - Are you sure? - It is way better. It is miles better. - It looks like the same
amount of pixels to me. - The reflections on the car,
the sharpness of everything. If I stop, the wheel
does not look as aliased. It looks like there's
way more lighting detail on the wheel alone. I'll say though that in 1080P, it's a little less obvious
that things like the grass and the shrubs and whatnot are aliasing. - The fact we're playing at
30P is slightly disgusting, but whatever, it's fine. So I'm guessing this is
quality mode in Horizon, right? Well, I don't need to ask. It is quality mode. I think I've seen enough with console B. Let me switch to A and see. First impressions, close,
not a massive difference. I'm going to put a call in
that right now I'm playing on the Series S instead of the X. I don't care which one this is. I'm impressed by the Series S, because the difference
between the two consoles on this monitor for this
test, incredibly minimal. - Well, you've heard it here from the... We have Digital Foundry at home. I think I agree too. - Yeah, right?
- 100%. - A is S, B is X. - You've gotta see it
in the road lines too. - [Austin] Yeah, yeah. - [Ken] It's a little more
obvious with the night shot. - [Austin] But there's no difference besides just that little
bit of sub-pixel detail on a 1080P display. Lighting, the car models, almost everything looks
the same sort of quality. - I think they definitely
emphasize the car model more, which is probably for the better. - Now, Forza... - Dramatic reveal. - You're both correct. - See, I told you. I want to see what it's like
in the performance mode, when the graphic fidelity goes down and has a more constant frame rate, but in the quality mode, it looked great. - It looked absolutely great. - It looked really good. - The toughest test by far though is Ori. Ori's a good game to test this, 'cause it is incredibly
smooth and nice looking. I'm going to say, I'm probably not gonna be
able to tell the difference. It's a little soft, some of the detail, but I think that's just the
way that the game is designed. - I'm going to try to stay
right here and get a sense of the detail. I don't want to pixel peep too much. This looks really great already, but Ori already looked
good on the One X as well. If I had to hedge my bets
though, I think it's Series S. - You think it's Series S? - I think I have a good
sense of resolution. I don't think that was subsampled. - All right, this is console B? - This is console B. - Okay. - Nevermind, oh, wait. - [Austin] Dude, that
looks the exact same. - Stop moving, stop moving,
stop moving, stop moving, stop moving, stop moving. If you look at this little
tiny piece of grass over here, it's not aliased. The problem is that it
doesn't look as sharp, which is throwing me off. I don't know what the hell's happening. I'm going to try to stay
right here and get a sense of the detail. I don't want to pixel peep too much. - This is Series S, but by
literally, I am this close. - You know what? There is slightly less texture
in this, I agree, yeah. I think that this is Series S. Oh my God, what the hell? - I think it's 52% chance
that this is Series S. I'm going to go with Series S, console B. - Austin, Austin, we're right. - [Austin] Wait, are
you cheating right now? - [Jared] What the hell? - Did he just cheat?
- Did you just...? - Did you just look at the HDMI? Well, I didn't put my call
in that this is Series S. - [Ken] No, no, we made our call. We made our call. It was fine. - For me, this experiment
has really opened my eyes to something that's
been kind of developing over the last few years, but this is the first time
that it really crystallized for me, which that gaming
has spent so long chasing after gigahertz and
gigabytes of RAM and pixels, and while all that is
absolutely important, especially if you're an enthusiast and you want to push the
maximum performance out of your gaming PC, or you want
to play on a PS5 or Series X and get 4k and 120 Hertz,
that's all important, that's all great, but we're no longer in
the era where cheaper, especially portable devices,
are at a huge, huge handicap. Think about the Game Boy. The Game Boy had four
colors and a terrible screen with giant amounts of
battery drain and everything, and when you look at a
game on that compared to the Super Nintendo, there
was no comparison, but today, I can play a game on the
Switch or on a Steam Deck or even on my phone, and while, sure, it might not quite match
up to the exact performance of my console or my PC, but it does give me a
very playable experience, to the point where in a lot of titles, you can get almost the exact same. Like you look at Ori on
the Series S versus the X. Yeah, we can tell a
difference, but you know, the difference of pixel
peeping four pixels of a frickin plant or something. It's to the point where if
you're looking for differences and you want the max, you can get that, but what I think is easy
to overlook is the fact that so much has gotten so good, that a lot of games aren't
down to the exact resolution or whatever the case is,
it's about the art style, it's about the experience, and when you have a device in your pocket, whether it be a phone or
a Steam Deck or a Switch, or if you have a more affordable
device, like a Series S, which while it might not
have the raw performance of the Xbox Series X, it has all the capability
of running games, just at that lower resolution
and frame rate and whatnot. I think it goes to show the
gaming has really evolved in a way that feels almost strange, if we would've talked to
ourselves five, 10 years ago, where it was all about
more and more and more, because now, I think one
of the biggest trends in gaming is less. Still the same experience
in a lot of ways. Some ways, it's actually better. When it's portable, it's
easy to take with you, but it's not about just
pushing the envelope on what you can do, but it's about being
smart about what you have and the form factors that
you're putting it in.