This is the SpaceX South Texas launch facility on 
South Padre Island near Boca Chica… or at least   it’s how the facility started out. Before the 
so-called Starbase supported crazy test launches   of the Starship spaceflight program, it was just 
a pile of dirt. Contractors brought in truck after   truck of soil, creating a massive mesa of more 
than 300,000 cubic yards or 230,000 cubic meters   of earth. That’s a lot of olympic-sized swimming 
pools, not that you’d want to go swimming in it.   After nearly two years, they hauled most of 
that soil back off the site for disposal.   It might seem like a curious way to 
start a construction project, but   foundations are critically important. 
That’s true for roads, bridges,   pipelines, dams, skyscrapers, and even 
futuristic rocket launch facilities.   The Texas coastline is not known for its excellent 
soil properties, so engineers had to specify some   extra work before the buildings, tanks, and 
launchpads could be constructed. Building that   giant dirt pile was a clever way to prevent 
these facilities from sinking into the ground   over time. Why do some structures sink, and what 
can we do to keep it from happening? I’m Grady   and this is Practical Engineering. In today’s 
episode, we’re talking about soil settlement. This video is sponsored by 
Morning Brew. More on that later. The Earth’s gravity accelerates us, and everything 
else on our planet downward. To keep us from   falling toward the center of the planet, we need 
an equal and opposite reaction to keep us in   place. If you’re at the top of a skyscraper, your 
weight is supported by floor joists that transfer   it to beams that transfer it to columns that 
transfer it downward into massive concrete piers,   but eventually the force of you must be resisted 
by the earth. It’s ground all the way down.   You might not think about the ground, and 
its critical role in holding stuff up,   but the job of a geotechnical engineer 
is to make sure that when we build stuff,   the earth below is capable and ready to 
support that stuff for its entire lifespan. Every step you take when walking along the 
ground induces stress into the subsurface.   And every rocket launch facility you build 
on the Texas coastline does the same thing.   This isn’t always a big deal. When constructing 
on bedrock, there’s a lot less to worry about,   but much of the earth’s landscape consists of 
soil: granular compositions of minerals. Stress   does a funny thing to soils. I mean, it does 
some funny things to all of us, but to soils too.   At first consideration, you might not think 
there’s really much difference between   rock and soil. After all, soil particles are 
just tiny rocks, and many sedimentary rocks are   made from accumulated soil particles anyway. 
But, soil isn’t just particles.In between all   those tiny grains are empty spaces we call 
pores, and those pores are often filled with   water. Just like squeezing a sponge forces 
water out, introducing stress to a soil   layer can do the same thing. I built a little 
demo out in my garage to show how this works. This device is called an oedometer. It’s basically 
a piston and cylinder with holes for drainage at   its end. I filled it up with soil from my backyard 
that was nice and saturated from recent rains.   Next I put this porous stone on top of the soil 
to filter particles from getting out of the drain   holes. Finally, I put a weight on top to introduce 
some stress to this material. Over time, water is   forced to exit the pore space of the soil and flow 
up and out of my sample. As the water departs, the   soil compresses to take up the void left behind. 
This process is called consolidation. It’s not   the only mechanism for settlement, but it is the 
main one, especially for soils that are made up   of fine particles. Large-grained soils like sand 
and gravel interlock together and don’t really act   like a sponge so much as a solid, porous object. 
To the extent they do consolidate, it happens   almost immediately. You can squeeze and squeeze, 
but nothing happens. Fine-grained soils like clay   and silt are different. Like sand or gravel, the 
particles themselves aren’t very compressible.   However, unlike in coarse-grained soils, fine 
particles aren’t so much touching their neighbors   as they are surrounded by a thin film of water. 
When you squish the soil, the tiny particles   rearrange themselves to interlock, pressurizing 
the pore water and ultimately forcing it out. The dial indicator on top of my demo shows how far 
the soil compresses in the time lapse. It’s pretty   easy to imagine that this weight is something 
you’ve built, like a building or a dam. The soil   below the weight is… well, it’s the soil below 
your structure. The more weight you add, the more   stress goes into the subsurface, the more water is 
forced out of the pores, and thus the further the   soil settles. Geotechnical laboratories perform a 
similar test, but with much more scientific rigor.   Apologies to all the soil lab technicians who 
are shaking their oedometers right now. I’m not   trying to carefully characterize the soil in my 
backyard, but just to show how the process works. This may seem obvious, but when we 
build stuff, we don’t want it to move.   We want the number on that dial to 
stay the same for all of eternity,   or at least until the structure 
is at the end of its lifespan.   That idea - that when you build something, it 
stays put - is essentially all of geotechnical   engineering in a nutshell. It encompasses 
the entirety of foundation design, from   the simplest slabs of concrete for residential 
houses, to the highly sophisticated substructures   of modern bridges and skyscrapers. The way 
movement occurs also matters. It’s actually not   such a big deal if settlement happens uniformly. 
After all, in many cases the movement is nearly   imperceptible. I’m using a special instrument 
just so you can see it on camera. Many buildings   can take a little movement without much trouble. 
But often, settlement doesn’t happen uniformly. For one, structures don’t usually impose uniform 
loads. If everything we built was uniform in size   and density, we might be okay, but that’s never 
the case. No matter what you’re constructing,   you almost always have some heavy parts and other 
light parts that stress the soil differently. On   top of that, the underlying geology isn’t uniform 
either. Take a look at any road cut to see this.   The designers of the bell tower at the 
Pisa Cathedral in Italy famously learned   this lesson the hard way. Small differences in 
the soils on either side of the tower caused   uneven settlement. Geotechnical engineering 
didn’t exist as a profession in the 1100s,   and the architects would have had no way of 
knowing that the sand layer below the tower   was a little bit thinner on the south side than 
the north. It didn’t take long after construction   started for the tower to begin its iconic lean. 
I should point out that there’s another soil   effect that can cause the opposite problem. 
Certain types of soils expand when exposed   to increased moisture, introducing further 
complications to a geotechnical engineer.   I have a separate video on that topic, so check 
it out after this if you want to learn more. Settlement made the tower of Pisa famous, but in 
most cases it just causes problems and costs a   lot of money to fix. One of the most famous modern 
examples is the Millennium Tower in San Francisco,   California. This 58-story building was 
constructed atop the soft, compressible fill   and mud underlying much of the Bay Area. Engineers 
used a foundation of piles driven deep below   the building to a layer of firmer sand, but it 
wasn’t enough. Only 10 years after construction,   the northwest corner of the building had sunk more 
than 18 inches or 46 centimeters into the earth,   causing the building to tilt. Over time, some of 
the building's elements were damaged or broken,   including the basement and pavement surrounding 
the structure. As you would expect, there were   enough lawsuits to fill an olympic sized swimming 
pool. The repairs to the building are in progress   at an estimated cost of 100 million dollars, not 
to mention the who-knows-how-much in legal fees. One of the most reliable ways to deal with 
settlement is just to make sure it happens   during construction instead of afterwards. As 
you build, you can account for minor deviations   as they occur. Unfortunately, consolidation isn’t 
always a speedy process. The voids in clay soils   are extremely small, so the path that water has 
to take in order to exit the soil matrix is long   and windy. We call this windiness sinuosity. 
You can see in my demo that the bottom part of   the sample is much less compacted than the top. 
These void spaces you can see along the sides of   the cylinder aren’t representative of the voids 
inside the clay. They are comparatively huge.   But the water in the big voids has to percolate 
through the tiny void spaces in the soils above   in order to exit the sample. I ran this 
demo for about a day, but in a real setting,   depending on the soils and loads applied, the 
consolidation process can take years to complete. It’s not a good idea to build a structure that 
will settle unevenly over the next several years.   Hopefully it’s obvious that that’s bad design. So, 
we have a few options. One is to use a concrete   slab that is stiff enough to distribute all the 
forces of the structure evenly and provide support   no matter how nonuniformly the settlement occurs. 
These slabs are sometimes called raft foundations   because they ride the soil like a raft in the 
ocean. Another option is to sink deep piles   down to a firmer geologic layer or bedrock 
so that loads get transferred to material   more capable of handling them. But both of those 
options can be quite expensive. A third option   is simply to accelerate the consolidation process 
so that it’s complete by the end of construction. One way to speed up consolidation in clay 
soils is to introduce a drainage system.   Settlement is mainly a function of 
how quickly water can exit the soil.   In a clay layer, particularly a very 
thick layer or one underlain by rock,   the only way for water to leave is at the 
surface. That means water well below the ground   has to travel a long distance to get out. We can 
shorten the distance required to exit the soil by   introducing drains. This is often done using 
prefabricated vertical drains, called PVDs or   wick drains. These plastic strips have grooves in 
which water can travel, and they can be installed   by forcing them directly into the subsurface using 
heavy machinery. An anchor plate is attached,   the drain is pressed into the soil to the 
required depth, the mandrel is pulled out,   and the material is cut. It all happens in quick 
succession, allowing close spacing of drains   across a large area. The tighter the spacing, the 
less distance water has to exit. One of the other   benefits here is that water often travels through 
soils horizontally faster than it does vertically,   since geologic layers are usually horizontal. 
That speeds up consolidation even more. I put some rolled up paper towels in my oedometer 
with another sample of clay from my backyard.   It’s pretty easy to see in the time lapse that the 
soil is compressing more evenly across its entire   length instead of slowly from top to bottom. This 
isn’t a perfect scientific comparison since these   samples are far from identical, but I still 
think it clearly tells the story. Plotting   the displacement over time for both samples, 
the benefit of vertical drains is unmistakable. The second way we speed up consolidation is 
surcharge loading. This is applying stress   to the foundation soils before construction to 
force the water out quickly. Like I described in   the intro at SpaceX South Texas, it’s usually as 
simple as hauling in a huge volume of earth to be   temporarily placed on site. The way this works is 
as straightforward as squeezing a sponge harder.   It’s the equivalent of adding more weight to my 
acrylic oedometer, but it’s simpler just to show a   graph. Let’s say you’re going to build a structure 
that will impose a stress on the subsurface.   That stress corresponds to a consolidation at this 
red line. If you load the foundation soils with   something heavier than your structure, that weight 
will be associated with a greater consolidation.   It’s going to take about the same time to reach a 
certain percentage of consolidation in both cases,   but you’re going to hit the target consolidation 
(the red line) much faster. In many cases,   engineers will specify both wick drains and 
surcharging to consolidate the soil as quickly   as possible so that construction can begin. Once 
you get rid of all the extra soil you brought in,   you can start building on your foundation knowing 
that it’s not going to settle further over time. One of the best decisions I ever made was to cut 
back on the amount of news I read and listen to.   My mental health and happiness are susceptible 
to the black hole of 24/7 news media,   but I can’t just shut it all off. I still have 
to make good decisions based on what’s happening   in the world, not to mention that I like to have 
topics for conversation with my friends and wife.   I decided that my news diet needed to 
be very intentional, and Morning Brew   is fitting that need for me. Morning Brew 
is a daily newsletter on business, finance,   and technology delivered to your inbox every day, 
and it’s completely free. They boil down the most   important news of the day, summarizing top stories 
so you get a balanced overview of what’s happening   across the world. Morning Brew has snappy 
rundowns with links if you want to dive deeper,   like this story about Blue Origin’s proposal 
for a private space station called Orbital Reef.   If you want to stay up-to-date on current events 
without falling down the news rabbit hole,   give Morning Brew a try completely 
free at the link in the description.   It only takes 15 seconds to subscribe. 
Supporting our sponsors helps support   this channel. Thanks Morning Brew and thank 
you for watching. Let me know what you think.