- Hi, I'm Linus Sebastian and you may remember me professing my love for LG's OLED
displays in YouTube videos like "every other monitor is dead to me" and "My end-game gaming TV." Well, now that I've been daily driving one for the past few months, I'm going to show you
everything wrong with it and hopefully how to fix it. - What about today's
sponsors, Mr. Sebastian - Ha ha, thanks Jamie. But you know, I would never forget to tell our viewers about
our sponsor, GlassWire. Instantly see your past and
current network activity, detect malware and block
badly behaving apps on your PC or Android device with GlassWire, use offer code Linus and get
25% off at the link below. When I reviewed the 48 inch
LG C10 earlier this year, I loved it, so much that as
soon as David got his own and returned mine, I dumped my old monitor set
up and put it in my office and all of the great stuff I
said about it still holds up, its high refresh rate and
unbeatable pixel response times make it among the best gaming
displays on the market, And its inky blacks and
great color performance, make it super comfortable
to use for everything else. Be it movies, spreadsheets, the whites. That is why I'm still gonna have an affiliate link to it below. But before you click on that, this burn-in is a result of snapping my windows into the four corners of my display, a pretty common thing to
do on such a large monitor and Wendell from Level1Techs, who has been daily driving one
of these for longer than me has also hit some snags. - It is amazing, but what's not amazing is that I'm starting to
see signs of burn-in. Hmm. It's unsettling. It's just
enough to be unsettling. - Yeah, mine too. But LG thought of that and
maybe, just maybe we can fix this with a feature that's built
into every OLED display that I'm aware of, that
LG calls pixel refresher. Start now, hopefully that works. I guess we'll find out soon
enough, but while it's running, let's talk about burn-in a little more because there's a lot of
mixed messages out there, including from us. On the one hand you've got manufacturers like LG saying it's not a
problem and on the other hand, you've got tech experts
like Wendell saying. - I would say that with heavy use, you know, 6, 8, 10 hours a day, uh, you can only count on these
things lasting about a year, maybe two. - What's the truth? As usual,
it's somewhere in between. But to understand why, we
need a bit of background to start with the term, burn-in is a relic of the CRT days when your monitor was
as big as a microwave and your TV was the size of an oven. It's also a total
mischaracterization of the problem because burn-in refers to ghost images that were quite literally burned into the luminescent
phosphor coating on the back of the glass of
those older style displays. Here's an example that is so
extreme that the DMV stopped having to even turn the TV on anymore. But we continue to use this term because even though the
mechanisms are different, the behavior of modern
displays can be very similar. So whether you're talking about a CRT, LCD, plasma or an OLED, if you display static or non-moving images for extended periods of time, you might eventually see them as ghosts that haunt your other content. So this type of image retention can affect nearly all
direct view modern displays. The only difference is how
likely you are to encounter it, for LCDs, which make up the majority
of TVs and monitors today, we could more accurately
describe this phenomenon as image retention, because it's typically
caused by the liquid crystals losing their ability to easily
return to a relaxed state. We don't talk about it much though, because it's pretty uncommon. Unlike lttstore.com. We talk about that all the time. Look at this great desk pad. As for OLEDs, a more apt
term would be burned out, and that's because OLEDs don't have either a phosphor coating or any liquid crystals to get stuck. Each pixel of an OLED display, actually, each RGB sub pixel
is an individual light source, and from the moment it first
powers on it is deteriorating, and the brighter each one of
those little candles burns the faster it will dim. Now, obviously this gradual weakening, isn't going to be too
noticeable if every pixel gets used exactly the same, but how likely is that to
happen in the real world? So to combat this educated OLED users can employ a number of tricks
to extend their lifespan. - I've been running this
monitor super conservatively. My OLED brightness has
only been around 60. I left on the, you know,
the logo compensation thing where it tries to detect a logo or, you know, like the start menu, and it's like, oh, let me
move that around a little bit. - Those are some good tips,
lowering the brightness overall means that each pixel isn't blasting out as much light wearing itself out, logo compensation tries to surgically dim static
elements on the screen like sports score bugs
or news channel logos and screen shift or pixel shift, takes the whole onscreen image and tries to kind of move it around by
a few pixels every so often in hopes of at least
softening the transitions between the more burned out pixels and the less burned out ones. But as you saw, when we began this video, even a few months of use was
enough for me to overcome all of those protections. My brightness by the way,
was usually set to 80, and I also have pixel shift
and logo compensation enabled. Let's take a look at
our results, shall we? Wow. Okay, hold on. Yeah. Is a lot better. It works, but there's bad news, the way it works is, it
runs a horizontal line down the screen over a long period of time in an attempt to basically even out the wear on all the pixels, so you could think of this approach sort of like sanding out a
scratch from a wood floor. Yes, the damage is far less noticeable, but only because you
intentionally wore away the wood around it. And as you'd expect this kind of thing, doesn't work forever. - The pixel refresh
function of the display does help when you turn it off, it's supposed to automatically
do that on its own, but I think it's kind of
diminishing returns at this point. Text in certain areas, are not quite as sharp as it used to be, and I've got this sort
of weird red splotch in the middle of the screen because, you know, so
much stuff is going on in the middle of the screen. - Great. And even if pixel refresher
works perfectly for you, there are some daily use
problems with these TVs, that we should have caught in our review. One inconvenience is
that they don't handle auto awake from sleep the
way that a monitor does, so you'll have to manually turn it on every time you sit down at your computer, but that one's pretty minor compared to the auto-dimming issues that Barnacules has been struggling with. Now, I understand why LG is doing this, remember the whole burn-in thing? But when you've got three
displays all side by side by side, something as simple as dragging
a window across a border can cause one or more of the TVs to suddenly change their brightness from, I think I can see it to eye searing. Now I, on the other hand, I'm only running 1, 48 inch display and I only have to do my
little brightness dance when I'm reading or editing a large document for an
extended period of time. So, given that burn-in is a
much larger concern for me, I'm content to leave
the auto-dimming alone. But if you absolutely cannot tolerate it, there does appear to be a fix. And, ah, there it is. That's right, we've got it. This is the LG service technician remote that can supposedly access
menus that are hidden using the regular consumer one. All Ploof said was "play with it." Shall we? Okay. Well, I mean, can you? Okay. You can do just regular stuff, like change an input. What's P check? Huh. Oh crap. Well, now what? Man, how much do I miss
having buttons like this? Instead of just having an input button that you have to click a bunch of times, just HDMI 2. HDMI 1. Dedicated button for that. I kind of just want this
remote to just be this remote. Can I Un-P check it? Sound check. Oh, picture check, picture check, and sound check, that's what it is. Man, there's so many buttons on here. What's P only. Ooh. Oh geez. There is a mode with the password. Here we go, boys. According to Reddit, it's 0-4-1-3. What's so special about that date, LG. And look how smart this is, see the IR meter is angled such that it'll just work if you're just like holding
it like this, looking at it. That's awesome. Menu. Oh, hello. This all looks like the regular menu. Whoa. Hi, in start. Whoa. And then we want, OLED. TPC enable, off. Wow. Whoa. Hi. Oh, look at that. HDR on, off. Just like that. I guess normal is auto. Man, this is the kind of
thing you could really get into the weeds tuning. And by the way, it would void
the heck out of your warranty, so if you ever did need to
get any kind of servicing done or even update the firmware on your TV, it is strongly recommended that you return all of the service menu options
to normal and then do it. Otherwise, I take no responsibility
for your stuff breaking. All right. And we're back. Now, is this? Is this
brighter than before? This looks terrible, just a sec. Houston, we definitely have a problem. Oh, we're in vivid mode. I wonder if that's why it looks like crap. This still doesn't look quite right. It's horrible. And then the second I change this to HDR. I bet it's fixed. Yep. And perfect now. I am going to plug it
into my laptop real quick. Come on. Come on. Come on. It still looks like absolute dog crap. It's doing something
to the incoming signal, I have no idea what. We're gonna put this all back to default. Exit, okay. Now, we are going to do a factory reset. I think I found it. I think I found it. I think it was just super resolution. Yeah, I thought that was off. But I wonder if it's
just like a stupid thing where it was turned on and turned off. Cause we are in SDR right now and this looks fine. Huh. all right, good. It's back to normal, factory reset and then changing settings, even though they, changing them back doesn't
break it again, seems fine. We need to move on, because none of what
we've talked about so far supports LG's position, that
burn-in is not a problem. Let's talk about that. The thing is, the OLEDs on my desks are not the only ones in my life, and the 77 inch G10 in my living room, has actually been there for about as long as Wendell has
been daily driving his C10. And in spite of being used
daily for not just movies, but also games which are notorious for
burning-in static elements like speedometers, life
bars, you get the point, it shows no signs of burn-in whatsoever. And you'll actually find
plenty of similar testimonials from users online. So, it's clear that OLEDs absolutely can live long, healthy lives,
doing what they do best, absolutely crushing other technologies with their image quality. They just clearly require a level of TLC that other display technologies do not. This just means as much
as I agree with Wendell. - I love OLED. Oh my goodness, this is
like living in the future with this kind of display technology. Back to you, Steve. Back to you, Linus. - I'm gonna have to be more careful who I invite to be a guest on the channel. I'm also gonna have to be more careful about my display
recommendations going forward, because even though, by the way, the service menu thing does appear to have worked. These TVs are clearly best suited for customers with more
typical home theater use cases. And they're only suitable as monitors for deep pocketed enthusiasts who are willing to accept, either the downsides like the auto-dimming, or the cost of replacing
them ever so often. And they'll also have to accept hearing about our sponsor Micro Center. Micro Center is one of
the best places to shop for all your technology needs. They've got great prices and
selection on computer hardware and everything else technology at 25 locations across the U.S. They have a growing lineup
of business solutions for small and medium-sized businesses featuring workstation
computers from Dell Precision and from Supermicro. They have experts on staff who can advise and make recommendations for why a server or business desktop or workstation is gonna be the right choice for your business. They offer services around
repairing business systems, including replacing components and providing technical support and new customers can check the link in the video description for a coupon code for a free 240 gigabyte SSD, no purchase necessary, in store only. Well, that was fun. By the way, if you enjoyed this video, maybe check out our video
where we fixed a dead CPU.