I heard there was a story during the rounds in the 
Brady household - this one. It's Mole's Star which I   know you've been reading to your new baby son. I 
decided to have a look at this Brady and to see   if it's sort of- if it was appropriate shall
we say. So um yeah I thought- should we have a look?  So it's basically about a mole who looks up at 
the stars and decides to sort of basically take   them all and put him in his burrow which- I'm not 
really sure about this. So so let's just let's just   start reading it shall we? So I'll read it like 
Jackanory right? So Mole's Star by Britta Teckentrup.   "Mole lived deep under the ground. He loved 
his cosy home of burrows, dens and tunnels. But   sometimes he felt a little lonely in the dark. 
Every night Mole popped his head out of his   molehill to say hello to the stars. He sat on his 
favorite rock gazing at the beautiful twinkling   lights in the sky. One night, as Mole sat on his 
rock, he saw a dazzling shooting star and quickly   closed his eyes to make a wish." 
We've all done that right? Actually I haven't because I've never seen   a shooting star but that's another story.
" 'I wish I could own all the stars in the world' he whispered."   So let's think about this. So what can Mole 
actually see? So these stars that he's claiming   to want, what can he actually see? Well I think 
moles are pretty blind so I'm not sure if you   can see any stars. So maybe he's talking about 
all the stars - by last estimate the number of stars   in the observable universe is about 200 billion 
trillion stars. Roughly about 100 billion in each   galaxy, 100 billion to 400 billion in each galaxy 
and there's about 2 trillion galaxies okay. So   that's a lot right? That's a lot. I think that's 
too many, I think that's greedy. What I think we   should focus on is that Mole's actually after 
roughly the number of stars that a typical   human or any creature on Earth can see. There's 
about 5,000 of those. So typically a human if say   you can see up to what we call the brightness of 
the star that goes up to about magnitude six, and   that's about roughly about as far as humans can 
see. Maybe a little bit further but but that's   that's roughly about this sort of dimmest star that 
we can see. And there's about 5,000 of those that are   visible on Earth, okay. So that's probably- I've got 
a little database of them here actually; it's a   database of the brightest stars in in the sky. You 
know things like the Yale bright star catalogue but   there's a few others in there as well and this 
includes all the stars that we can definitely see.  Usual suspects in there like Sirius for example; 
what else is there, we've got Vega which is you   know very bright star. Rigel here I think that's 
that's one of the the nearby ones right in Alpha   Centauri. So you know so these-
- (Brady: I see Betelgeuse there)
- Betelgeuse there yeah yeah that's   right yeah yeah. So we've got the usual suspects, 
there are a whole bunch of others as well. I filtered   this to just only consider those whose magnitude 
is six or less, and so that's the brightest ones   that humans can definitely see. As I said if you've 
got a particularly good eye you might see a few   more but let's not worry about them because we 
know Mole doesn't have a good eye okay. Mole wants all the stars okay. So "When Mole opened his eyes 
he couldn't believe what he saw. There were ladders   all around him leading up to the sky."
So these ladders what are these? So these ladders- if you look   at the picture Brady, these ladders are going up to 
all the stars. So I'm trying to figure okay so we've   got all these ladders and they're going up to all 
the stars that the Mole- that we're saying these   5,000 stars that we're gonna- at least humans can see 
okay right. So I looked at my database and I sort   of said, well okay how...you know how how how far 
are these stars away? How much ladder do I need?   Okay so this database includes the distances to 
to all those stars that we're talking about, all   those 5,000 or so stars. And the total 
distance in light years that you would need   of ladders to reach these stars is about 786 
million light years. It's quite a lot of ladder   right. I decided to think, okay can actually can we 
make these ladders? These ladders which are going   up to all the stars, right, can we make them all?
So I thought okay, what should we make out of? Well   we're gonna need something light I think, so I said 
let's go for balsa wood. Okay so balsa wood has a   density of about 0.1 gram per centimeter cubed. 
I checked and you can get balsa wood down to about a   diameter of about 0.2 centimeters. You know your 
your sort of rods of balsa. If you put all that   together and you try to build your ladders yeah 
with rungs you know sort of every so often. Then   typically I think you're going to need about 
ten thousand billion billion kilograms worth   of ladder. Actually the exact number is about 9.9 
times 10 to the 21 kilograms. Now that sounds like   a lot right? It sounds like a lot of balsa wood 
right that you need to make these ladders. And   you're thinking, no way Mole's going to do this.
But actually this is about that this is this   is a lot less than the mass of the Earth. It's
about a thousand times less than the mass of the   Earth. The mass of the Earth is about six times 
ten to the 24 kilograms; so so roughly about six   million billion billion kilograms. So it's about a 
thousand times more than than this this the weight   of these ladders. 
- (So ladders going to the 5,000 
or so stars we can see - if they're quite flimsy)   (and made of balsa wood weigh much less than the Earth?)
- Yep I couldn't believe it I was really   surprised by it, really surprised by it. So I thought okay-
- (Did you double check that?)
- I've double   checked- there's my code Brady, double checked, 
triple checked - then where's the ladders. Total ladder   heights, here we go. Yeah I mean it's just - the mass 
of the Earth is big, this is what it is, the mass   of the Earth is really big I think that that's the 
bottom line. It's the mass of the Earth that's big.  (But the Earth is small on the cosmic scale! It's a speck of dust 
we forever hear) 
- These ladders are quite flimsy, not very compact, you know they're just flimsy 
ladders that go and then we've got this this   huge whole earth that's roughly spherical which 
is a really efficient way to store stuff in terms   of volume. I was really surprised, I was really 
surprised I agree. I actually told Renata about   this, my wife right, I said- she she was like 'really?'
She goes, is there enough carbon? That's a good   question. So I found- there's something called the 
Deep Carbon Observatory which basically- you know   they're worried about how much carbon there is. And 
they've done an estimate for how much carbon there   is on Earth. Well it's not quite enough; it's not 
it's not that far short but it's not quite enough.   It's about 1.85 times 10 to the 21 kilograms, so 
that's 1,850 billion billion kilograms of carbon on   Earth and in the earth. So there's not quite enough. 
- (Is that assuming balsa wood is just made of carbon?)   Yes it is. So I mean most most of balsa- most of balsa wood is actually empty space, essentially  just just air. But actually the heavy stuff and what's 
giving balsa wood its weight is probably mostly   carbon. So yeah I mean there's just not there's 
not enough carbon on Earth. But it's not that   far short, it's about  you know roughly- what's 
that? Factor of maybe maybe five just under five   different? It's just not quite enough which is annoying. 
So Mole, you can't make this out of balsa wood unless   you're going to start going off to other planets 
to collect your balsa wood; you're not- you've   not got enough on Earth. So okay let's make it out of 
carbon fiber. So we're going to make these ladders   out of carbon fiber. Now carbon fiber is actually 
more dense than balsa wood but of course it can   be a lot thinner, okay. So it's about two grams per 
centimeter cubed is its density; but you can get   the diameter of a strand you know of carbon fibers 
down to about a thousandth of a centimeter. So you   can get it you can get a lot thinner. Okay now 
we're not going to worry about where Mole could actually climb this at this stage, but we 
can get much thinner ladders, okay and we can   try and rebuild. So how how much is ladders made 
out of really thin carbon fiber is going to weigh? Well I reckon it's going to be about 3.5 times 
10 to the 18 kilograms - 3.5 million trillion   kilograms. Now that's way less than the mass of 
the Earth and actually it's less than the mass   of carbon on Earth, so there's enough carbon 
on Earth to make these these carbon fibers.   But there's a catch. Okay so we could in principle 
on Earth make these carbon fiber ladders going to   all the stars right that we can see; but the 
problem is there's not enough surface carbon.   Okay? So the amount of surface carbon according to 
this this again this this deep carbon observatory   is about 4.35 times 10 to the 16 kilograms,
so that's 43,000 trillion kilograms. That's   the amount of surface carbon; so the carbon 
in the air, the carbon in the land, the carbon   in the oceans. Okay so there's not enough of 
that to make your carbon fiber ladders.  To make your carbon fiber ladders you're going 
to have to get deep into the Earth, right? Into   the Earth's core and start getting the carbon out 
of that. And okay that's gonna be tricky but in   principle if Mole can do it he can make us carbon 
fiber ladders going to all the stars. Okay okay, carry on.  (Job done. What does Mole do next?)
- "Mole didn't think twice. He scurried up and down the   ladders, collecting the stars one by one and 
carrying them home." Okay Mole now we need to   think about this, right. So Mole is now running 
up and down these ladders - of which we need to   remind ourselves, they are in total 786 million 
light years high. How long is this is this going   to take him? I feel like it's gonna be quite a 
long time Brady. All right? So I looked it up, so   how fast do moles travel? They travel at about six 
kilometers per hour. So given he's got to go up and   down the ladders right - and let's suppose he's 
doing it at six kilometers an hour, which maybe   that's a bit of a you know a being a bit generous 
because frankly he's going up right. So- but okay   we'll we'll do we'll use that number. It's going 
to take him Brady, 280,000 trillion years. So that's   2.8 times 10 to the 17 years. That's a long time,
that's a very long time, that's much longer than   the age of the universe. It's certainly longer 
than the lifetime of a star, right. So a star-   a star lives for about 10 billion years. This 
is way longer than that. So I don't think this   is practical for Mole to be doing this this 
way, right, he's going to get to these stars   and they'll all be dead. So what's the point right? 
So I think Mole has to find another way to travel.  So I looked at it, so I said okay maybe you 
could travel on like let's say the Apollo 10   spacecraft - very fast, one of the fastest space craft ever made. 
That goes about just under 40,000 kilometers per hour.  If Mole did it using the Apollo 10 spacecraft 
it would take him about 43 trillion years. That's   still not enough - stars are all still going to 
be dead. So then I went okay what's the fastest   spacecraft we've ever made? Not necessarily 
crewed or mole-d - that's the Juno spacecraft, okay.   That can go at 365,000 kilometers per hour which 
I frankly think is amazing. But that's still gonna   take you - or take Mole - 4.6 trillion years to 
do this journey. It's just way too long; all the   stars are going to be dead. Well not all of them, 
we might get to the first couple but that's- you   know it's just it's it's it's no good. Okay he 
needs to do something beyond the technology   we have available right so he's gonna have 
to start going close to the speed of light.   This is just- no choice in the matter. I crunched the 
numbers on this a little bit to say about how fast   is it going to have to go to get to these stars 
in his lifetime? So moles can live between roughly   three three to six years; six years if they're 
lucky but they normally crock it around three okay.   So here's what I figured out: so if 
Mole travels within one billionth   of a billionth of the speed of light - so really 
really close to the speed of light - within one   billionth of a billionth of the speed of light he 
will be able to go up and collect all the stars in   around two years four months.
- (Traveling at like 0.999999 speed of light?)
- Yeah. Within one billionth of   a billionth of the speed of light; just shy of it 
that fraction. So you might say well how does   how does that make any sense? This is- you've got 
to do 786 um million light years. Okay so this this   is where relativity comes in and starts helping 
us- and helps or helps Mole actually. So we're   waiting for Mole, he's going to collect these stars.
Now for him to collect all those stars - 786 million   light years there, 786 million light years back - in 
total it's going to take him about 1.6 billion   years as far as we're concerned. We're going to 
be waiting about 1.6 billion years here on Earth   for him to go and get these stars. But Mole is 
traveling super fast, so time ticks differently   for him because of relativity. We've talked about this 
with Usain Bolt before if you remember Brady, right?  Well Mole is going a lot faster than Usain Bolt,
he's going very very just just shy of the speed of   light. Because of the way of time time changes 
at speed for Mole he would actually complete   this journey in like I said two years four months.
Which is which is just within his lifetime which   is pretty cool. And actually so going at that 
speed by the way I sort of calculated how long   Mole would consider himself as taking to go to 
Alpha Centauri, our nearest star system. And that   would be about 0.3 seconds - he would do it about 
0.3 seconds. So yeah going pretty fast but doable.   I thought it was quite interesting. Okay, carry on.
- (Carry on, what does Mole do?) Okay so he's brought these home so: "That 
night, his borrow was full of shimmering starlight."   So you see what Mole has done now- so let me 
all the carry on reading. "Mole loved his   bright new home so much, he wanted to stay there 
forever." Now Mole is probably going to get what he   wishes for here quite frankly; because now what 
Mole appears to have done here is get the stars   and shove him into his burrow. Okay, that's a 
lot of mass in a very small space. Right so   typical burrow of a mole; right well okay it's 
about five centimeters sort of wide about four   centimeters high and it can be up to about 70 
metres long actually. It's still not a very big   volume. It's it's still you know only about 0.14 
of a cubic metre, it's not it's not a big volume.   But how much- how what's the mass of the stars that 
he's trying to shove into this this burrow? Okay   well I go back to my little database. I had to 
um I had to actually calculate the the mass these of these stars based on on the luminosity 
and all that sort of stuff. So I got an est- there's   a bit of an estimate to be fair, but I think 
it's pretty accurate, it won't be miles off.   And I reckon these stars, these 5,000 stars or so 
that we've got, their total mass is about 20,175   times the mass of the Sun. It sounds reasonable 
actually, it's not- it doesn't sound like a crazy   number given that you know you've got about 5,000
 of them. So it's about 20,000 times the mass of the Sun. So this is how much 
mass Mole is trying to get into his burrow. Well   okay suppose you try to cram that much 
mass into as small a space as possible;   how small is it going to be before it collapses 
into a black hole? You calculate something called   the Schwarzschild radius which is the size 
of the event horizon of a mass that big.   And for this much mass the Schwarzschild radius is 
about 59,000 kilometers. So that means you cannot   cram this amount of mass into a space less than 59 
less than- roughly 59,000 kilometers in in radius.  You just can't. Otherwise it's going to turn into a 
black hole. So not only can Mole not get this into   into his burrow - or if he does he's going to start 
turning his burrow into a black hole - he's actually   going to turn the Earth into a black hole right?
Because the Earth is only about 6,000 kilometers   in radius right, so trying to cram all this stuff into 
into you know a small region in and around the Earth   eventually you're going to start creating a black 
hole that's going to swallow the whole Earth. So that's   pretty pretty reckless behaviour by Mole I would say.
- (So you couldn't even fit all these) (stars into the Earth?)
- No. The best you can do is 
create a black hole which is about- which is about   sort of 10 times the size of the Earth. That's 
the best you could do, that's Mole's best tactic.   So yeah so that's- so what's gonna happen 
next Mole? So he wanted to stay there forever.   Right well let's think about this. 
- In his black hole)
- He's now a black hole so maybe he is going to stay there forever. But actually not necessarily, 
okay. He's in this black hole now, is he going to   stay there forever? No because remember black 
holes radiate. They give off a type of- when you   apply quantum mechanics to the edge of a black hole 
you realise that they're not as black as they seem,   they give off this radiation which is named after 
Stephen Hawking, so they give off Hawking radiation.   So there is a time it takes for this black hole to 
evaporate okay? It's quite a long time though, right.  So this black hole, it's going to take about 10 to 
the 80 years to evaporate.
- (10 to the 80? That's a)   (familiar number.)
- It's a number of particles in the 
universe, that's why you're over it. But that's a   total coincidence, it's just it's just this the 
complete coincidence. But yeah so it's about 10   to the 80 years for this black hole to evaporate. 
So Mole could get out of this black hole that he's   created rather recklessly in 10 to the 80 years;
however he's not going to get out as a mole, he's   likely going to come out as just Hawking radiation 
which is not great. 
"But as the days went by, he started   to miss his favorite rock. So one evening, he 
popped his head out of his molehill, and saw...  nothing. The sky was dark." Well it's not really 
a surprise is it because you've created a black hole. And also he's not getting out actually. So 
I I also wondered like what- so we say he could get   out of the black hole after 10 to the 80 years 
as Hawking radiation; what's the universe going   to look like then? That stage of the universe, very 
far future we're talking about, and the universe is   going to be black hole dominated then. There's 
going to be an era between 10 to the 40 and   basically googol years when the universe is just 
dominated by black holes. All the stuff has fallen   into black holes; some of the black holes will 
be radiate- will have radiated away, the smaller   ones will have done, larger ones will still be 
radiating. But the universe is going to be black   hole dominated. So actually the sky is going 
to be pretty black right, because there's going   to be no stars shining, they've all been swallowed
by black holes. Yeah well we we carry on. "Deer   stood in the clearing with tears in her eyes. 
Where are all the stars, she said? Field mouse   - field mouse is not happy by the way - field mouse 
shook his head sadly. My children love to stargaze   while I sing their bedtime lullaby. They will be 
so sad" I hope Mole's feeling guilty. "The stars help   me find my way, said fox. Where can they be, sighed
bear, I have flown far and high, said owl, the stars   are gone." So I presume that owl is saying that 
that she's flown 786 million light years which seems a bit of an exaggeration but we'll move on 
from that. "Mole felt terrible. He didn't know the   other animals loved the stars as much as he did. He 
scurried into the trees hiding himself away. Mole   walked deeper and deeper into the forest. What 
had he done? Then Mole saw something glinting   through the trees. A star lay in a puddle, 
its light faded and dull. Could it be his   special shooting star? Mole bent close. Oh how I 
wish I had never taken the stars, he whispered." I didn't whisper that did I? "The stars began to 
twinkle and ladders appeared." Oh so ladders are   back. So he must have had to go somewhere else for 
the rest of the ladders now, because he's used up   all the carbon on Earth for his original set of ladders.
"Mole didn't think twice. He rushed back to the   clearing, the star lighting his way. I'm sorry he 
cried, I took the stars, I wanted them for myself.  But now I know the stars belong to everyone 
I'm going to put them back." Okay so I think   this is where we have to start thinking about this 
again now right? So we've already established he's   created a black hole, and that black hole is going 
to get take 10 to the 80 years to evaporate okay.   So Mole ain't getting out for a long time. And when 
he does get out the universe is now going to be   black hole dominated with barely any stars in it 
at all, all the stars are swallowed by black holes.   Okay now those black holes will evaporate 
themselves after about a googol years; so   there's nothing really to see, the universe is just 
a dull and boring place of Hawking radiation. Just   cold and miserable - and it's the heat death of the 
universe essentially. If Mole really wants to bring   the stars back, and wants to be able to look up at 
the sky again and see the stars, I think he's going   to have to wait for a Poincaré recurrence. I 
think that's the only option. Whenever you have   a finite system you always get back to where you 
started from. So so for example I take a pack of   cards, so there's a finite number of arrangements 
for a pack of cards. If I shuffle the cards enough   I'll eventually get back to the original order of 
the cards. It'll take many many many shuffles but I   will get there. And it's the same, you think about 
gases in a room - so you put all the gases in the   corner of a room and they move around and there's 
this random movement of the of the gas particles.   Eventually after a very very long time they will 
at some point end up back in the far corner of the   room. That will happen. Okay so you always get this 
this recurrence in a finite system; and we do   believe our universe is a finite system. It's to 
do- we we know this because we can look at the   entropy of our universe, we understand that it's 
finite and we think it's finite and so therefore   it's a finite system. And so it has a Poincaré
recurrence where it will get back to any initial   point. Okay? So if Mole wants to get back to his 
starting point, which is the stars there; this is   the only way I think he can do it, he's gonna have 
to wait wait for it - I think this is exceeding a   mole lifetime by the way: 10 to the 10 to the 
122 years. So 10 to the 10 to the 122 years so   an astonishingly long time. That's the order of 
magnitude that Mole's gonna have to wait before   he gets his stars back and you know he makes up 
for his his error. Yeah long time.
- (Mole's star)
- Mole's star!   (A bit flawed)
- A bit flawed yeah; but not entirely. 
The ladders were fine, right, the ladders were fine. Here's a fiendish puzzle from the clever people at Jane 
Street, custom made for today's video. You have to   place 2 and only 2 stars in each row, column, 
and section of this grid. No two stars can directly   neighbour each other either, even diagonally. If 
you can crack it the stars will then mark out the   letters to solve this riddle. What would happen if 
Mole didn't put all the stars back in the galaxy?  I'll put a link to the puzzle below this 
video so you can click straight through to it.  And while you're on the Jane Street website 
why not check out the amazing opportunities   they have to work with them in offices all 
around the world. Our thanks to Jane Street   (Let me ask you one more question: if people really 
enjoy big big numbers and they enjoy books, what)   (book should they buy?)
- Oh well they should buy
'fantastic numbers and where to find them'! Which can say, which is my book.
- (You've written a book about big numbers?! You kept that secret!)   Yeah I don't tell anybody about it, yeah. It's got 
all the numbers- all your favorite numbers in   Brady. It's got like a googol, a googolplex, it's 
got Graham's number and tree(3). It's all our   favourites - it's got some small numbers as well.
- (I know it was released in the UK, it's a real pity)   (it hasn't been released in America.)
- No it has been released in America Brady.
- (What it's out in America too?!) It's out in America, it's out everywhere. 
- (Oh well!)
- You can go- it doesn't look 
like this in America, looks a bit different, but   um it's still there and it's the same 
name - fantastic numbers. Yeah you can get   it in a get it online or you can get it 
in you know Barnes and Noble for example   those sorts of places.
- (I wonder if there will be a link in the video description?)