If you live in North America, you know that
this upcoming Monday is a big day for aficionados of astronomical phenomena: it’s a solar
eclipse. And if you haven’t already, you need to
get some of these glasses that let you look directly at the sun. But, the sun’s angular diameter in our sky
is only half a degree. It’s smaller than your thumbnail at arm's
length, and that’s pretty small. I won’t be in the path of totality this
time, but I will be at an elementary school here in San Antonio enjoying the eclipse with
students. And as usual when I talk to kids, I’m feeling
compelled to try and make this experience just bit a more visceral. Just like mythbusters with explosions, I figure
the best way to increase the excitement of a solar eclipse is to make it bigger. Hey I’m Grady and this is Practical Engineering. Today we’re building a sun funnel. The one job of a telescope is to gather a
large amount of light and concentrate it so that you can see astronomical objects more
clearly. That’s perfect for faint subjects like planets
or nebulae, but not ideal for our nearest star, the sun. Even looking at the sun with no magnification
can damage your vision, and magnifying those harmful rays is just going to make things
worse. So how can we get a bigger view of the sun
safely? There’s essentially two ways: first you
can use a solar filter that works just like the eclipse glasses, blocking out the majority
of the light so that you can safely see the sun through your telescope. But this way has a disadvantage: only one
person can see at a time. Not ideal if you’re trying to share the
excitement with a crowd. The second way is to use the telescope to
project an image of the sun on a screen, and that’s the basis of the sun funnel. Telescopes and binoculars use lenses or curved
mirrors to concentrate light. Normally the optics are aligned to focus the
light onto the retina in your eye. But, if you move your eye out of the way,
the light keeps going. Put a screen in front of it, and now you’ve
got a projection. It really is as simple as holding up a screen
in front of the eyepiece, but the sun funnel solves two practical problems: (1) it automatically
keeps the projection screen in the correct orientation to the eyepiece even as you move
your telescope around to follow the sun, and (2) it keeps anyone who doesn't know better
from looking through the telescope at the sun and accidentally blinding themselves. My design is based on a guide published on
NASA’s website that I’ll link down below. They used a plastic funnel, but I decided
to make my own using this thin-gauge aluminum sheet. I used pop rivets to fasten the edges. You can size the funnel based on your telescope,
eyepiece, and how large you want the sun to be using a fairly simple formula. The eyepiece to my telescope slipped into
the small end of the funnel and I connected it with a hose clamp. On the other end, I stretched a piece of vinyl
shower curtain to act as a rear-projection screen. The last part of the project is to stop down
the aperture on my telescope. Most reflector telescopes aren’t meant to
focus the strong rays of the sun directly, and I didn’t want to overheat my secondary
mirror. I’ll also be covering up the aperture altogether
at regular intervals to make sure it doesn't overheat Here’s a test I did in my backyard. The sun is plenty bright enough to see, and
big too! I think the kids are going to be impressed. I’ll post some pictures of the real eclipse
in the sun funnel on my instagram next week, but for now I can show a simulation of what
it will probably look like. Even if you’re not looking at an eclipse,
the sun funnel is a fascinating way to observe an actual star up close and personal. I hope you liked this quick project, and for
those of you in North America, I hope you get a chance to see the eclipse next week. Thank you for watching, and let me know what
you think.