- You know what you
want, accurate tracking, quality materials, optimal weight, extra buttons, and ample RGB. But there are quite literally
hundreds of gaming mice on the market, many of which
tick all of those boxes so why the green flaccid (beep) is everyone buying this one? I mean, the fight is so one-sided
it's gotten to the point where this is not just
the top seller on Amazon, but Logitech even made themselves their own little custom
award to commemorate that they make the top
selling gaming mouse on the freaking planet. I mean, how can a product
line that was first announced at PAX 2014 still hold that crown? It can't be that good. Can it? I know our sponsor is, thanks PebbleHost for sponsoring this video. PebbleHost offers
dedicated servers starting from $3,999 a month
with a range of systems for all use cases. Use code Linus to get
30% off your first month, which is valid for the first
hundred people who use it. (bright upbeat music) Gaming mice have been
around for over two decades at this point, starting
with the Razer Boomslang all the way back in 1999. - Razer all the way. - It was available with
either 1000 or 2000 DPI or dots per inch sensitivity, with the 1K version costing 70 US dollars and the 2K model costing a crisp Benjamin. But in spite of the outrageous
price, it was so successful (upbeat music) that it launched Razer into
the publicly traded behemoth that it is today. Though, that's
not really that surprising. I mean, gamers have always
been hungry for any way to get an edge over their opponents and seeing Razer's success, more companies obviously
were gonna follow suit. Logitech's first attempt also
came in 1999, the Wingman, but in retrospect, it's weird shape and the lack of a scroll wheel, are probably why Logitech
acts like it never existed. Logitech's G series
though released in 2005, was their first serious power move. They featured much better ergonomics, extras like side buttons
or adjustable weights, and perhaps most importantly, no balls. The G series also marked
Logitech's first salvo in what would be a
never-ending marketing war to create the highest
sensitivity gaming mouse. Over the next nine years,
Logitech and their competitors used a combination of
optical and laser sensors, with Logitech even building one mouse with an accelerometer in it,
to go from a practical 2000 DPI all the way to 12,000 DPI
in the G502 Proteus Core, the distant ancestor of the world's most popular mouse today. Now that 2014 model wasn't identical, but it features many of the
key elements that we still love about the current iteration,
including a braided cable, 11 re-mappable buttons, extra weights, and a Logitech signature top level free spinning scroll wheel. But the engineers weren't done
our cursors must move faster. So four years later, using
the all-new hero sensor, the G502 Hero was born. It was
basically the same as before, except it could reach
a staggering 16,000 DPI or that is to say at least
it used to reach 16,000 DPI thanks to a recent firmware update, it can actually be pushed
even further to 25,600 DPI. That is a lot of dots per inch. Now, we love Logitech mice around here. You'll find more than a few
MX Masters kicking around at our workstations,
and most of us I think are using their gaming mice at home. So it wasn't a huge surprise when we saw their name in the number one spot, but with at least 10
different designs featuring that same hero sensor, why is
this ancient body, the king? Let's start with a look through
some of the 26,000 ratings for this mouse on Amazon. 82% of users give it five
stars for an average of 4.7 with most reviewers pointing
to the comfort of the design, the ease of access to all
the programmable buttons, the sensor, and surprisingly
the customizable weights. Now, this has been a feature for years, starting with the G5 in 2005 and in an age where going lighter and
lighter is typically preferred, we were surprised to see
so many current reviewers mentioning the weights.
I mean, personally, I'm onto the G Pro
Superlight at this point so I can hardly imagine loading
up the already chunky G502 to it's 139 grand capacity but then again, I also don't really lift so... Another positive, is most
people seem to feel like the software is pretty okay
and I guess I feel the same from changing the RGB, to
programming the buttons, to creating DPI profiles, setting up and using G Hub is pretty solid especially with a wired
mouse like this one, where you basically just
plug it in and it works. And it is comfortable with
petite gamers like me, able to switch between
a palm or a claw grip and more generously endowed gamers probably preferring a straight claw grip. With that being said,
many of the complaints about the mouse from the
four-star or lower reviews are valid. It is a little on small side, some of the buttons can be
a touch too easy to press, looking at UGs four,
five, seven and eight, and while the thumb support
width feels good to some, it feels absolutely awful to others. The scroll wheel can also
end up feeling too stiff when it's locked and too
free when it's unlocked, which is really hard to
properly convey without letting you actually try scrolling within yourself but trust me, they've got a point. Something that surprised
us was the handful of complaints about it being too much. But I guess that's kinda fair enough. I mean, not everyone needs
so many bells and whistles or 25,600 DPI for that matter. For laws by the way, we
did crank it up all the way to the limit to try it out
and instantly backed off to somewhere in the 1200 to 3000 range. It should be noted though, that
just because we're not using that extra sensitivity on the slider, that doesn't mean it's
necessarily going to waste because it can contribute
to additional accuracy. But whether those
improvements are meaningful at this point, is another conversation. The weight was another factor
with most unsatisfied buyers complaining about how heavy it is. Fun fact though, we did find one outlier who thought the mouse was too light. Okay then, suit yourself. And while you're at it
you can suit yourself up with our new indoor
hoodie from lttstore.com. The most crucial issue
that stuck out for most if not all of the one and
two-star reviews though, was switch failure,
primarily double clicking and click and dragging. Conveniently enough, we
just so happened to have a torn down G502 that our
creator warehouse engineers were analyzing to find out
what's so good and bad about it and as it turns out,
Logitech is using switches in this thing that aren't really meant for modern mouse designs. The Omron D2FC-F-7N
switches used to work fine in older models that ran at
a higher voltage and current, but Japanese Omron
D2F-01Fs would work better for the mice of today, thanks to their more robust build quality. Now you can replace the
stocks which is entirely, and there are a few tutorial
videos on YouTube to help you, but the reality is the average
user isn't gonna bother they're gonna log a
complaint, ask for a refund, and probably buy a different mouse. So with that damage to
their brand on the line, why is Logitech trying to save a buck on one of their most popular products? Ah, well that brings us to the price. A decent new gaming mouse
used to set you back between about 80 to 120 US dollars more if you wanted something wireless or with niche features. The G502 Hero, it's 50
bucks on Logitech's website, just $40 on Amazon, and we
even found the SE variant, which appears to be
just a different color, for $35 on Best Buy. I mean, even at the official price of $80, which you can still pay if you really want the KTA skin version for some reason, it's reasonably competitive so getting it for less than half of that, feels like a heck of a bargain. I can understand why
Logitech might've wanted to cost it down to hit that price point and besides when something is affordable, people tend to be a lot more
forgiving of minor grievances, like having to RMA it perhaps, or the lack of a finger
channel on the right click or a bit of extra heft. I mean, within Logitech's
own product stack, there are really only
two wired competitors both of them priced a little
higher, the Pro and the G600. The G600 is labeled as the MMO mouse and it's pretty clear why, it's
got 20 programmable buttons for basically every
macro you could ever need while still being comfortable. And as for the Pro, well,
many of you might be attracted to it's symmetrical shape, hero sensor, six programmable buttons,
onboard memory profiles, and extra RGB. If you like the look and feel of the Pro, but you wanna save a bit of money and you don't need 25,000 DPI, then the cheaper G203 Prodigy
might be the mouse for you. As for if you want something wireless, well, the price does jump substantially. Of course, you don't have
to stick with Logitech to hit this price point. A quick look reveals
plenty of other options in the $30 to $50 range,
many from reputable brands, you can get a Razer
DeathAdder Essential for $24 at the time of filming,
but even at regular price it's down to 50 bucks. And the Viper Mini Ultralight is just $40, $28 on sale right now. The Reddragon M801 is $50,
EVGA X15 MMO is also $50, and the SteelSeries Rival 3 is $30 we're gonna have all of these listed in our affiliate links down below. I mean, sure, most of these don't have quite the same robust feature set often spoting fewer programmable buttons, or lower maximum DPIs but
like we mentioned before, many of you don't actually need, let alone want something so extra. If you wanna spend even less money, there are some interesting
products from brands we've never heard of now, I
certainly can't vouch for them, but hey, competition is good, right? $16 for a mouse with seven
programmable buttons, a high polling rate up
to 7,200 DPI and RGB, it's not a lot to lose if
you feel like taking a chance and that one is downright
expensive compared to this bad boy. But coming back to the
G502 Hero at this price, we can honestly say
that we do recommend it. It's got unparalleled
tracking, good software, and it's backed by
Logitech's legendary support. But it also might be worth
expanding your horizons a little guys, we don't have
to all buy the same mouse. The Razer Basilisk X Hyperspeed
wireless was only $35 at the time of filming and
Corsair Nightsword RGB well, a little more expensive at
$60 on sale is a great choice if you're looking for
something similar to the 502, but you prefer the Corsair ecosystem. Whatever route you go with though, it's still probably better than the Amazon Basics PC
Programmable gaming mouse $65 for this thing, looks like
Amazon didn't get the memo I mean mice are really affordable now. You know what else is affordable? Our sponsor, thanks to Zoho
CRM for sponsoring this video. Zoho CRM is a 360 degree
solution for managing your business' sales,
marketing, and customer service. With their intuitive UI
and simple navigation, you can implement their
service quickly and efficiently with minimal disruption
to your current processes. They offer AI predictions
to help you understand your customer's needs,
so you can see trends and purchase patterns by
a variety of indicators, plus their inbuilt design
studio helps you customize your CRM experience to help
you spot critical customers or account information at a glance, helping you get your work done faster. Zoho offers flexible
contracts, transparent pricing, and an ever-evolving product
that grows to meet your needs without snowballing your costs. With over 15 years of
experience in the industry and over a quarter million clients, Zoho CRM is a great
solution to support you and your customer
relationship management needs. You can learn more at zoho.com/crm. If you guys enjoyed this video,
maybe check out our other, why is everyone buying this
videos, like this HP monitor that everyone was picking
up for some reason.