- Before the first iPhone, it was expected that maybe
you'd get bug fix updates from your carrier, if you were lucky. Now, Apple users statistically update within one to five weeks of a new release. Amazing how things can
change so quickly, isn't it? And so many things have changed
in the latest iPhone update that they might change the
way that you use your iPhone. So what has changed in the 15th
major release of iPhone OS? What, if they're not gonna
call it iOS on iPads, they might as well call it the old name. And I might as well tell you
about our sponsor, Honey. Honey is the free to use shopping tool that helps search for some
of the best promo codes on lots of your favorite sites. Get it today at joinhoney.com/ltt. (light beeping) (energetic electronic music) I've been using the iOS 15
beta for a little while now. And unlike Android 12, Apple
is bringing big changes, not to the overall look and feel, but to new features and
usability improvements that might end up making
you more productive starting with notifications. Notifications now feature bigger icons, and you now have a configurable
notification summary panel. This makes it easier to distinguish
messages and actionables from news updates and other things that you'll want to look at later. What's more, you can schedule that summary to be delivered at a time when you can sift through
it at your own pace. You can even mute individual
notifications for an hour, a whole day, or eternally
banish them to the Shadow Realm right from your notification center. This goes hand in hand with
Apple's new Focus setting, which only allows notifications through from apps or people that you specify. It's a legitimately useful
feature that lets you, well, focus on what you're doing, be it working or exercising, gaming, driving, or spelunking. Summaries will show up silently
in the notification shade and notifications will come through when Focus mode is disabled. So no need to worry
about missing something. The Focus status has shown in iMessage so your contacts know you won't be able to see their texts right away. But they can also mark it as urgent, which will send you a notification anyway. Great news for both those who
respect your personal space and those who don't. Notifications aren't all
it's good for, though. You'll also get to
control which home screens are shown for each Focus. That means I can have a
Focus that has all the apps I use for work front and center
when I arrive at the office. No need for work folders
or anything like that. Then when I get home, I
can make it automatically switch over to personal, so Linus can't pester me
about how the server room has caught fire again. It's your problem this time, Linus! Anyway. You can also set a Focus to
activate at certain times, or during certain
activities like workouts. It's all surprisingly useful. Also useful, the slick
up updates to Find My. Not only can you creepily track family members in real time now, actually a thing that I
do, because I don't drive, and I need to know where my ride is. You can now be notified whenever
you leave something behind, being an iDevice or a compatible
tracker, like AirTags. As Jonathan over at Mac Address showed, this tracking network is legitimately robust enough to handle such a task. iMessage, which has been
called Messages for awhile now, is getting more robust too. There's the questionable
stuff like new Memoji. Am I the only one who's
creeped out by those things? (creepy music sting) (shivers) Anyway, the the big thing is much deeper integration with apps, including the ability to
share specific articles, web pages, TV shows, photos, and more directly through a message. And you'll also get those shared items inside the appropriate apps. This makes so much sense. And I'm looking forward to
seeing if this integration can be done with third-party apps as well, or if it's just an Apple
only thing for now. I haven't looked at the dev articles. Speaking of Apple only, though, FaceTime is no longer Apple only. Sort of. You can schedule and share links, so anyone can join the call through a browser on a PC or Android. Frankly, this is such
an Apple thing to do. Give the non-believers a
taste of the experience, but don't give them the real thing until they prove their dedication by purchasing a high
quality Apple product. Yeah, it's kind of annoying,
but it sorta makes sense, because FaceTime's also
picking up new features like spatial audio that
makes people appear to be speaking from
where they are on screen, and a new grid view that gives you more of an organized view of everyone
in the call at a glance. Add to that, a new voice isolation mode for busy environments, and you've got a formidable video conferencing app. But that's not all it can do. SharePlay gives you a
way of watching TV shows and movies together, as well as sharing your
screen for remote support or for just showing off
those photos or apps. Basically, Apple's focus seems to be on making FaceTime accessible, and useful for far more
than just video calls. The wider web is also a
focus for Apple and iOS 15 with significant updates to Safari that make it a bit easier to navigate. Although I am finding my muscle memory keeps trying to hit the top bar in order to get to the address
bar that's now at the bottom. That's going to take some getting used to, but swiping left and right between tabs makes me far more likely to actually use multiple tabs on my phone, and brings a feature to Safari that has existed on other web
browsers for quite a while. With that in mind, I'm probably not who tab groups are meant for, and I've got my own VPN account. So the new Private Relay, which serves as a sort of
VPN-light within Safari doesn't really mean much for me either. Although it's a nice privacy
bonus if you've got iCloud+. There are other features that
are pretty useful though, like pull down to refresh,
and the new signup page with quick access to your Cloud tabs, favorites, and frequent sites. It's a pretty nice touch. If people share websites
with you on iMessage, they also show up here, even if it's questionable
links from your relatives who still don't know what a meme is. Although you can turn this off. "But Anthony," you say. "These are all iOS 15 features you already told us about." You're right, voices in my head! Let's talk about the things (music swells dramatically)
I haven't told you about. There's a dedicated magnifier app that used to be an accessibility feature. It uses the camera to
take a temporary photo that can be manipulated
directly in the app with helpful filters, brightness,
and contrast controls. It'll be a huge blessing for anyone who's ever tried to read the fine print in the app store terms of service. Another accessibility
tool that's going to be legitimately useful for a lot of people is per app accessibility options. So now you can increase the font size on apps with tiny text, enable or disable auto-playing
video for misbehaving apps, or do smart color invert
specifically for apps that don't normally have a dark mode just to name a few examples. Another really cool thing? Text from images. And it's not just scanning
from the camera app like they showed on stage. Any text input field is
able to scan directly. Meaning you can scan, say, a URL on a sign or a sheet of paper. It works ridiculously well. And I mean, I can even open URLs from a PC just by pointing the
camera at the address bar. Lttstore.com, by the way. Not enough? In many Apple apps,
including Safari and Photos, texts in images can be
highlighted directly so you can copy and
translate it on the fly. But do you understand how big that is for reading and getting information on those terrible
image-only product pages? What, that's just a me thing? That's not even the only
thing you can do with it. Drag and drop is now possible with files, texts, and images, so you don't even need to
manually copy and paste anymore. And there's multi-touch support so you can awkwardly take a text blurb through a swipe tour of your open apps. They love that! There's some new stuff for AirPods too. It's not available yet, but Conversation Boost promises to help with hearing conversations
over background noise. It's something that I've struggled
with for most of my life. What is available right now though, is a neat new control
center icon called Hearing that lets you play back
different kinds of noise, which can be helpful for focus, sleep, and probably other things
I'm not even aware of. It's kind of fun actually, turning up the volume makes water sounds feel more turbulent
(water rushing) and dark noise kind of
feels like the interior of a plane in flight.
(dull roaring) This works with regular headphones, too. Notes and reminders can now
have tags associated with them for easy organization and search. And speaking of, Spotlight is more useful pretty much across the board, including results from the web, definitions, photos, messages, and more. Although fresh off upgrading, you'll probably need to wait a while before photos are indexed. Also, apparently, these are hot dogs. Nobody said it was perfect. Actually, maybe they are hot dogs. A bunch of little quality
of life improvements really add up here. Like a streamlined interface for in-app Apple Pay using multiple cards. And there's a built-in authenticator for two factor codes with
support for autofill. And they brought back dial
controls for setting alarms, something I've missed since
they removed it in iOS 14. It's enough to make Android diehards consider switching sides. And get subscribed, by the
way, so you don't miss a review when the iPhone 13 arrives.
(bell chimes) And if you do join the dark side, Apple's got you covered with
temporary iCloud storage space for handling the backup and
transfer of your old phone. Which is pretty sweet if you're not into the whole cloud storage racket. iOS now moves photo
albums, files, and folders and accessibility settings
from Android devices, too. If none of that impressed you, there's even more new features we didn't even have time cover. Even though this is just a beta, it's clear that iOS 15 is going to be a significant improvement
for pretty much everyone. It might not have many headliner features. I mean, Memoji is the second
thing on the page here. But the experience that I've had so far has been much more
streamlined and unobtrusive. And at the end of the day, that's what you want from
your phone, isn't it? And if it's not, maybe it's
our sponsor Build Redux. Build Redux offers hardware
with no markup pricing, only a $75 build fee. What you'd pay to buy
the parts of yourself would be the same price you pay with Redux with expertly built PCs. Plus you can use the online PC builder to customize what's going on inside based on the games you want to play. Redux believes in bringing
PC gaming to the masses. That's why they only
charge a small build fee and won't cut corners on quality. Click the link in the description and create your dream PC today. Thanks for watching, guys. Go check out our recent
video on Android 12 for a bit more in the direction Google's been pushing things. It really feels like it's becoming a same thing only different situation. And that's fine.