Quick disclaimer: I’m moving to a new 
office, so forgive the mess, and the reverb.   On Jun 11, 2023, a fuel tanker truck 
caught fire on an exit underneath   Interstate 95 in Northeast Philadelphia. The 
fire severely damaged the northbound bridge,   eventually causing it to collapse. Sadly, the 
driver of the truck was killed in the crash,   but fortunately there were no other injuries 
or deaths. Although it didn’t collapse,   PennDOT officials said that the southbound bridge 
was also compromised in the fire and had to be   demolished. All of I-95 through a major part 
of Philly was shut down for a couple of weeks,   and (as of this writing) the off-ramp underneath 
it will likely will be closed for the near   future as the bridges are rebuilt. Fires at 
bridges haven’t really been a major concern   for transportation engineers in the past, 
but increasingly, they’re becoming a more   serious problem. The cost to rebuild I-95 may 
pale in comparison to the indirects costs of   having the highway shut down for so long. Or 
maybe not - it’s hard to say. Let’s talk about   what happened and how engineers think about 
fire hazards at bridges. I’m Grady and this   is Practical Engineering. In today’s episode, 
we’re talking about the I-95 bridge collapse. The details in the intro are really all the 
details we know at the moment. A tanker truck   crashed below the bridge, eventually leading it 
to collapse. There are some wild videos taken   by motorists on I-95 during the fire, probably 
only minutes before the bridge fell, with the   road deck sagging significantly. Fortunately, 
emergency crews were able to shut down the   highway before anyone was seriously injured. The 
National Transportation Safety Board has had a   crew on site to begin their investigation, but 
knowing the meticuluous pace at which they work,   it will likely be a year or more before we get 
their report. But, the basics are pretty clear   already. And in fact, even though we don’t know 
all the details of this particular event, we’ve   seen similar collapses on several occasions. And 
the sequence of events is almost always the same. In 2002, fire caused the main span of the I-20 
interchange in Birmingham, Alabama to sag by 3   meters or 10 feet, necessitating replacement 
of the bridge. Cause of the fire? A crashed   fuel tanker. In 2006, a temporary part of the 
Brooklyn Queens Expressway in New York collapsed   during a fire. Again, the cause of the fire was 
crashed tanker truck under the bridge. 2007:   The MacArthur Maze Interchange in Oakland, 
California collapsed during a fire from a   crashed fuel tanker. 2009: A bridge over 
I-75 in Detroit collapsed after a tanker   truck crashed into the overpass. 2013: A diesel 
tanker crash damaged a bridge in Harrisburg,   Pennsylvania that had to be demolished. 2014: A 
gasoline tanker exploded on I-65 in Tennessee,   destroying two overpass bridges. Of course, 
this isn’t just a US phenomenon. In 2012,   a tanker overturned in Rouen, France damaging 
the Mathilde bridge over the Seine River and   requiring part of it to be replaced. And of 
course, bridge fires don’t only come from   tanker truck crashes. In 2017, a massive fire 
under I-85 in Atlanta, Georgia that resulted   in collapse happened because someone set fire to 
construction materials stored below the bridge. Incredibly PennDot was able to reopen this 
bridge a mere two weeks after it collapsed   with a pretty clever solution. Rather than wait 
until the original bridges could be rebuilt to   get I-95 back open, they decided to simply 
build a temporary embankment instead. After   the demolition of the fire-damaged bridges 
was complete, the less-critical off-ramp   below the bridges remained closed so that 
crews from PennDOT’s emergency contractor,   Buckley & Company, could fill the area in 
and simply pave over the top. My friend Rob,   built a little model of this on his 
channel you should check out after this. This temporary highway wasn’t built using 
soil or crushed rock, the typical backfill   material used in roadway embankments (at 
least not mostly). That stuff is heavy,   so most roadway embankments have to be built 
slowly to allow time for the foundation to settle   as each layer is added to the top, a process that 
can take months or even years. (Not an option in   this case.) Plus there are sewer lines below the 
existing road that could have been overloaded by   a mountain of backfill on top. Instead, the 
design called for lightweight backfill called   foamed glass aggregate. I have a whole video we 
produced earlier this year about different types   of lightweight backfills and how they work, so 
check that out if you want to learn more. This   foamed glass aggregate is not cheap, many times 
the cost of standard backfill. But, it’s strong   enough in compression to support the overlying 
roadway without overloading the foundation below   which would lead to settlement over time 
or damage to underground pipes. I actually   have some of it here in the studio. It feels 
kind of like floral foam, just a lot stronger. The other innovative design aspect of the 
temporary embankment is that it leaves room   on either side for the permanent repairs 
to the bridge. Eventually the City needs   this off-ramp back open for travel, after all. The 
emergency embankment is sited in the center of the   right-of-way to give as much space as possible 
for the next phase of the repairs that will   replace the bridges. That also required that both 
sides of the embankment have a retaining wall,   in this case mechanically stabilized earth 
walls that use reinforcing elements between each   layer of backfill to keep the tall structure 
from collapsing. I’ve also done a few videos   explaining MSE retaining walls if you want to 
learn more about them. The basics are easy to see   in this drone footage. The reinforcement turns the 
backfill itself into a stable wall, making it able   to both withstand vertical loads and hold back 
the rest of the embankment backfill. I built a   little MSE cube many years back and put one of my 
car tires on top to show how strong it really is.   Looks like the cube built by PennDOT 
will hold up even more cars than mine! To their credit, PennDOT kept a live feed of 
construction going for most of the project.   You can see the flurry of activity as workers 
and equipment build the embankment up to the   level of the highway on either side. Traffic 
was rerouted onto the temporary embankment   starting June 24th. But, why did a fire 
cause so much damage in the first place? We, collectively, put a tremendous amount of 
research and engineering into the fire resistance   of buildings and tunnels, but when it comes to 
fires at bridges, we know a lot less. In fact,   most bridges in the world are designed 
with little, if any, consideration for   fire resistance. Neither the Eurocode or the 
US bridge design criteria address fires or have   any guidelines or requirements for how or when to 
engineer against them. Of course, we think about   thermo-mechanical behavior of bridges all the 
time. I have a video all about thermal expansion   and contraction of large structures. But, when you 
get above a few hundred degrees, there just hasn’t   been much consideration. And the reasons for that 
are kind of obvious, at least at first glance. Less then 3% of US bridge failures between 
1980 and 2012 resulted from fire. Compare   that to hydraulic damage from scour and 
flooding that makes up nearly 50% of all   failures. That alone isn’t enough reason to 
ignore fires in the design codes. After all,   earthquakes make up only 2% of those 
failures, and we spend considerable   resources and engineering to design 
bridges against seismic loads. But,   you also have to consider safety. Even 
when bridges collapse due to fire,   people are rarely injured because most places have 
robust emergency response capabilities. Roads are   closed well before a fire is able to significantly 
weaken a structure. The relative infrequency of   serious fires at bridges and their unlikelihood 
of causing a public safety issue mean that we just   don’t devote a lot of resources to the problem 
right now… at least not proactive resources. The National Fire Protection Association 
does have some guidance for fires at bridges,   but it’s nebulous. They don’t recommend what 
fire loads should be considered, how to protect a   bridge against fire, or how to analyze a structure 
after a fire. And, the guidelines only apply to   bridges longer than 1000 feet or 300 meters. When 
you think about bridges, you often think about   these long-span structures over major valleys or 
waterbodies. They’re iconic, but they’re also just   the tip of the iceberg when it comes to bridges. 
In the US alone, there are over half a million   bridges in service today, and nearly all of them 
are short-span bridges used mainly for grade   separation (to let streams of traffic cross each 
other without interruption). They’re overpasses,   structures you traverse every day without even 
noticing. But you definitely notice when one of   these bridges is taken out of service. Bridges 
used for grade separation are more vulnerable to   fires because, unlike the ones over waterways, 
a tanker truck can crash underneath one where   the fire is most likely to cause damage. But 
protecting them is not as easy as it might seem. A robust engineering guideline for design 
of bridges against fires would actually be   pretty complicated. There are so many different 
variables and scenarios, and we really don’t   have any collective agreement about what level of 
protection is appropriate. What would be the fuel   source, footprint, flame height, intensity, and 
duration of the fire? With that information, we   can try to predict the response. How does the heat 
transfer from the fire to the structural elements   through radiation and convection, and how much do 
the structural elements increase in temperature as   a result? These are tough questions to answer 
on their own, but they still don’t get to the   heart of the matter, because what we really care 
about is how those structural elements respond.   What happens to the material properties 
of steel and concrete when they increase   in temperature way beyond what they were 
designed to handle? And more importantly,   how does the overall structure behave? You 
have thermal expansion, weakening of materials,   loss of stiffness, load redistribution, and a lot 
more. This is an extremely complicated scenario   just to characterize through engineering, 
let alone to design protections against. And the biggest question right now seems to be 
“Should we?” Bridge fires are primarily economic   problems. As I mentioned, they rarely result 
in injuries or life safety concerns because the   roadway is closed ahead of failure. But 
that doesn’t mean there aren’t impacts,   and if you regularly drive on I-95 in Philadelphia 
(or any of the other roadways I mentioned before),   you definitely know what I’m talking about. 
Replacing a bridge is an expensive endeavor,   but the indirect costs that come 
with having a major highway closed   are often higher. When the MacArthur Maze 
in Oakland collapsed from a tanker fire,   the indirect costs of having the bridge out was 
estimated in the millions of dollars per day,   way more than the cost of reconstruction. 
In fact, the rebuilding job was bid with   a bonus to the contractor for each day ahead of 
schedule they were able to finish the job. SFGate   has a great story about how they got that bridge 
reopened in just 26 days that I’ll link below. Road construction often seems slow, 
and part of the reason is to keep   the costs down. It’s not very efficient to 
dedicate expensive resources like equipment,   engineers, and specialty construction 
crews to a single project. Instead,   resources get spread across many jobs so that 
people, crews, vendors, and equipment can stay   busy. Even if seemingly slow progress is 
often frustrating to see, it’s usually   less a result of incompetence or corruption 
and more just government agencies trying to   be good stewards of limited public resources. 
But a major bridge failure changes that math.   Fabricators, equipment suppliers, painters, 
truckers, operators, and laborers are all   willing to set aside their other obligations 
for the right price. And government agencies   will happily devote their engineers and inspectors 
to sit and wait for questions or problems to arise   on a single job if the politicians can deliver 
the funds for it. In the industry, they call it   “accelerated construction.” It comes at a steep 
price, but sometimes that price is worth it. Like the MacArthur Maze, I-95 is a busy 
stretch of roadway, carrying roughly 150,000   vehicle trips per day. Some of that 
traffic was redistributed to other routes,   but some of the capacity was simply lost 
while the roadway was out. That means   deliveries were cancelled, workers 
had trouble reaching their jobs,   emergency response times went up, and more. The 
gridlock was not as apocalyptic as predicted,   but there were still some major slowdowns. 
In most large American cities, unexpectedly   closing a major highway has real economic 
consequences through lost commercial shipping,   lost productivity, lost retail sales, more wear 
and tear on roadways not meant to accommodate   the detour traffic, and a lot more. And those 
indirect costs play into the consideration in   whether or not its worth it to include fire 
protection in the design of highway bridges. But what’s on the other side of that equation? 
Of course it would have been worth the cost to   protect this one bridge in Philly from a tanker 
fire if we knew it was going to happen, but would   it have been worth the cost of protecting all the 
bridges just in case? Or is that gold-plating our   infrastructure where it’s not really needed? 
We know adding highway capacity induces traffic   demand, but we also know the corollary. Reducing 
capacity decreases traffic demand as people find   alternatives to making trips in cars, and 
maybe a highway bridge outage isn’t quite as   big a deal as the politicians and news coverage 
suggest. And maybe investing in some diversity   in our transportation infrastructure and giving 
people better alternatives to driving can do more   good than putting that money toward protecting 
bridges against the unlikely event of a fire. Like a lot of things in engineering, the costs and 
risks and alternatives aren’t that easy to weigh   out. Your answer might depend on how many fuel 
tanker trucks you see on your everyday commute.   The International Associaiton for Bridge and 
Structural Engineering has a group working on   guidelines for designing bridges against fire 
hazards. That’s a long way from incorporating   fire protection in the design codes, but it will 
at least give engineers some tools to include fire   resistance in designs where the situation calls 
for it. That group is scheduled to finish their   work later in 2023, but hopefully PennDot is 
able to get I-95 fully repaired before then. It’s easy to look at a big city like Philadelphia 
and be a little bit overwhelmed trying to   wrap your head around how it grew into the 
place it is today. Cities are complicated;   the result of millions of little decisions 
by citizens, politicians, engineers,   and urban planners. But every once in a while, 
all those little decisions add up to something   almost serendipitous, like the canals of Venice, 
Central Park in New York City, or the incredible   Metro System in Shanghai. My friend Dave from the 
City Beautiful channel has a whole series about   the biggest moments in the greatest cities on 
Earth. I was blown away to see the ways Shanghai   built out the world’s largest metro system in less 
than 30 years in the soft clay soils of the area. Maybe you’ve noticed what I have over the past 
few years, which is that all my favorite TV   networks are just running reality shows, and 
the best video content that I actually enjoy   watching is being made my independent creators. 
And maybe because this is my situation too,   but my absolute favorite videos are made by people 
who have real education and experience to back it   up. Dan of the Coding Train is college professor 
in computer art. Devin from Legal Eagle is really   a lawyer. And Dave of City Beautiful is an urban 
planning professor at CalPoly. There’s just   something special about videos that are written 
and produced by a subject matter expert instead   of someone who just knows how to produce a video. 
Dave’s series, Great Cities, is only available on   Nebula, the streaming platform built by and for 
independent educational creators, including me. Nebula is the answer to the question of what 
could happen if the best channels on YouTube   didn’t have to cater to an algorithm. What if 
viewers supported creators directly instead   of supporting their advertisers? And it 
just keeps getting better and better:   totally ad-free videos from excellent educational 
channels, original series and specials that can’t   be found anywhere else, and even classes from 
your favorite creators like Devin from Legal   Eagle and Thomas Frank. And right now, you 
can get 40% off an annual plan by using the   link below. That’s less than $3 a month. My 
videos go live on Nebula the day before they   come out on YouTube. If watching videos like 
this one is what you do for fun or to relax,   you should have the best viewing experience on 
the internet, especially when it’s practically   free like it is right now at the link below. Thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think!