I've got one for you Brady,   I know you love a new type of number. 
Today we're doing practical numbers.   You like the sound of that? So apparently this is 
meant to be a good number to use when designing   weights and measures. So things like um weights 
or coins or you know lengths and things like that. 20 is a practical number and I'll tell you 
what that means. So the idea is we're going   to design a set of weights, it's based 
on the number 20 and the divisors of 20;   divisors or factors if you prefer of 20. So 
imagine I've got a weight of 20 units - whatever   we're going to call them. The next weight is 
based on the divisor so it's going to be 10   because it divides 20. All the other numbers 
that divide 20: 5 will be the next weight,   and we're going to have - what 
am I going to have next - 2? No 4. Then I'm gonna have 2 and then I have 1; 
because you always have 1 don't you. There we go,   so that is 20 and the divisors of 20. Now the 
idea is I'm going to try and make every value up   to 20. So imagine I'm a merchant, I've got a set 
of scales. I've got this set of weights here, this   is a complete set of weights, and I might want to 
measure whatever number up to and including 20. So   let's check I can do that, okay. The idea is we're 
going to use each weight just once only, so we   won't need to have two sets of weights. The idea 
is I'm not- I don't need to use my weight 4 twice,  I should just be able to use 
one of each - so let's do that.  - (Brady: On your scales or?)
- On my scales yeah yeah So   for 1 I can just use the 1 weight, so that's 
done; for 2 I use the 2 weight, that's done. For 3 I would use the 1 and the 1. For 4
I've got a 4 weight so that's done. For 5   I've got a 5 weight so that's done as well; 
and maybe it gets more interesting with 6.   A 5 and a 1 would make 6, 5 and a 2 for 7.
For 8 I can use my 5, a 2, and a 1. Again,   just to say, I don't have to use 4 twice I can do 
it this way. What do I need for 9? I haven't got   a 9 weight so- yeah I've got 5 plus 4 - great.
Uh 10 I've got a 10 weight, good. Basically I'm   just going to do the same thing again now but I've 
got a 10 weight. So it's 10 plus 1, and then it's   10 plus 2, and then it's 10 plus 2 plus 1 and it's 
10 plus 4. 10 plus 5. 16: 10 plus 5 plus 1; 10 plus 5   plus 2; 10 plus 5 plus 2 plus 1. 19: 10 plus 5 
plus 4 and then that gets me up to 20. And   I can do every number up to the number itself and 
I can actually keep going until I get to like the   sum of all the weights uh which would add up to 
42 in this example; and then I stop because I   can't go any further because that's the complete 
set of weights. So that's kind of nice. So that's   called a practical number because the idea is that 
you could design a set of weights that do that.  The idea was that the old weights and 
measures are meant to be kind of superior, this is what they say, because they were based 
on these kinds of numbers. They were based on 16,   like 16 ounces in a pound. In the old days it was 
20 shillings to a pound, as in pound sterling - money.  12 is another practical number - inches in a foot. 28 
is a practical number. So apparently the old weights and measures were based on these kind of numbers 
because you could design sets of coins or sets   of weights and then you could use them like this 
in this combinations to make any number that you   wanted until you got as big as you could get. So 
this is what they say, that's why they're called   practical numbers. Oh because yeah the old weights and measures 
are far superior - much better than 10   and what we use now, our decimals and our metrics. 
Thing is, I tried to find a set of weights that   actually do this; or a set of coins, don't think it 
exists. I don't think this was actually done.  I just think this is mathematicians going "these 
numbers are far superior". I don't think this was   actually ever used; with one exception which is 
16 ounces in a in a pound, which is these weights.   This is the 16, this is the 8, this is the 4 this 
is the 2, and this is the 1. Although I think this   is more based on powers of 2 rather than being 16 
is a practical number. This is basically binary. So   if I'm using different combinations of powers 
of 2, that is what a binary number is. That I   found but I didn't find any like 4 gram weights; 
I didn't find any 4 pence coins or 4 cent coins; and that's where it falls down. So I've seen 
sets are nearly like this but but they don't do   it because they don't have the full thing. So let 
me show you the sequence of practical numbers, let   me show you what they are. 1 is a practical 
number, 2 is a practical number, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16,   18, 20, 24, 28 - some in between - 100 it's worth 
mentioning is a practical number; and so on.   So these are the practical numbers here.
- (They're not rare are they?)
- They're not completely rare. We   do know how many there are, I will tell you about 
that, but I think it's worth looking at a set that   fails; or a number that fails uh to be practical 
to see why it isn't practical. So we've got all   these practical numbers, so what's wrong with the 
ones in between? Okay let's take a look at what   doesn't work. So if I had a set of weights with 
14. 14, right divisors of 14: 7, 2 and 1 - what can   I make? I can make 1, good. I can make 2. I can make 
3 as 2 plus 1; and then I'm stuck, I can't make 4. Because I haven't got a 4 weight to use and 
I can't add up to 4 either. The problem is you   need to be able to reach the next divisor, that's 
that's real- that's the crux of it. You have to be   able to get to the next divisor like stepping 
stones. You need to reach the next one and then   that should get you to the next one, that's 
the idea. So yeah 4 I can't make, because 7-  you know 5 I can't make, 6 I can't make, because 
I can't get to 7, I've got this big gap. Then 7   I can make because I've got a 7. Then I can do 7 
and 1 for 8, 7 and 2 and then I'm stuck again. 11   and 12 I'm stuck, 13 I'm stuck, and I've got a 14 
like that. So yes you get these gaps. The divisors have to be fairly close together, that's it.
- (Okay. Are they impractical numbers those ones or?) We can call them impractical numbers; 
they're not called that but they are now, thanks Brady. Uh so yeah the divisors have to be fairly 
close together, so practical numbers tend to be   um powers of 2; they tend to be perfect numbers 
which have nice divisors that add up to make the   number itself. They tend to be factorials 
because that's, you know, divisible by 1, 2, 3,   4, 5, 6.. so you can get away with that. Uh primorials,
that's when you multiply the primes to   get - the consecutive primes. So if I do 2 times 
3, or 2 times 3 times 5, or 3- 2 times 3 times 5   times 7, those are primorials. So again those 
are have the divisors fairly close together.   And um highly composite numbers which Brady knows as?
- (Uh uh anti-primes)
- Anti-primes. Which if you go to   Wikipedia now it says highly composite numbers, 
also known as anti-primes - no that's just Brady. That doesn't count, you can't put that on Wikipedia!
- (What do you mean 'just Brady') 
- That's just Brady! -(All right)
- Again, these are numbers though where the   divisors are close together. A nice um test for 
a practical number though is you can just test   the prime divisors. So if you've got a practical 
number and it's divisible by a prime P, if you can   make P - 1, that's for all your possible prime
divisors, if you can make P - 1 you can do all   the numbers - it's a practical number. So there's a 
nice little test for it, so you don't have to test   every number. That will get you your stepping 
stones, that will get you from one divisor to   the other, that's what you need. 
- (How many practical numbers are there?)
- How many practical numbers are there? (I would have thought they were infinite)
- So yeah there are there are infinite practical numbers.   In fact a practical number multiplied 
by a practical number is a practical number.   Also a practical number multiplied by a
divisor is a practical number - I'll show   you an example of what I'm talking about. I've 
got say 6 is a practical number, and I've got 2   as a practical number. So yeah 2 times 6 is 12 
and 12 is a practical number. But I could also   do 6 times 3 where 3 is not a practical number, 
but it is a divisor of 6. And that gets me 18 and   that is a practical number - it is on my list. So 
you can make practical numbers from practical   numbers; so hopefully you can quickly see that 
you're going to have infinitely many practical   numbers, including the powers of 2. So yes you do 
have infinitely many of them. But we also know   how they're related to the primes as well. So 
there's a whole bunch of things that you can   do for primes that haven't been solved that you 
can solve for practical numbers. There's a   um a twin practical number result; so twin primes 
means you've got two prime numbers that are 2   apart, the conjecture is there's infinitely many 
of them, that hasn't been proven. Well for practical   numbers it has been proven. Practical numbers 
that are 2 apart; there are infinitely many pairs   of those, so tick yes that's been proven. Goldbach 
conjecture which says every even integer greater than 2 is the sum of two primes - not proven. Yeah 
that is proven with uh practical numbers, so every   even number is the sum of two practical numbers, that's nice. 
Umm prime number theorem which is   a proven thing, so we know how many primes there 
are. Number of primes less than x is approximately   x divided by the natural log of x - it's a famous 
result, it's called the Prime Number Theorem.   There's a result like that for practical numbers 
as well; I'll show you what that looks like. Let's   call it P of X, number of practical numbers less 
than x. And that is actually quite similar, it's   x over log x multiplied by a constant, I'm going to 
call it C for constant. That constant- well we   knew that was the case, we knew it was going to be 
something like that. That was actually calculated   finally by Andreas Weingartner in 2020 and this 
is the value: so C, this constant, is equal to 1.33607 and stuff. What that means is there's about 
34% more practical numbers than there are prime numbers. (So they're kind of rare, all right) 
- Yeah I guess they are. 
- (And they get more sparse)  (the higher you go?)
- Yeah it's just- yeah, you can 
see yeah it's like the um like the prime number theorem. At this point I was telling 
you that two practical numbers multiply together   makes a practical number; or a practical number 
multiplied by divisor makes a practical number. That   means we can actually minimise this sequence, we 
can get like the atoms of practical numbers. Like   the primes of practical numbers, a minimal sequence. 
Which is this: 1, 2, 6, 20, 28, 30 and so on. So all the   other practical numbers can be made out of this 
sequence of minimal practical numbers. So here's a longer list of these atoms of practical numbers; 
they're also known as primitive practical numbers.   It's sequence A267124 on the online encyclopedia 
of integer sequences if you want to dig deeper. And   also on screen you see those names? They're not 
like the discoverers of the numbers or anything,   they're actually Numberphile Patreon supporters. 
And if you'd like to support Numberphile on Patreon   there'll be a link on the screen and in the 
video description. We appreciate anyone who can help us out; but we also appreciate everyone who 
watches the videos, so thanks for being one of them.   And we'll be back again soon - practically 
before you know it - with another video.