- In this video, I'm gonna show
you guys the gaming handheld that year ten-year-old me would have literally given
six inches of height for. If you hadn't already traded it for this sweet footwear. (whistles). It's got high quality
joysticks, analog triggers, an enormous not to mention
bright seven inch display, enough IO to rival
modern full-sized laptops and it managed to run every game I could imagine throwing at it. And I can imagine an awful lot. It's the Ayaneo 2021 pro and
it's new retro power colorway, and upgraded specs, put it in contention with the Steam Deck as the best handheld
gaming PC on the market. I have been having a ton
of fun with this thing. Just like I'm gonna have fun
telling you about our sponsor. SmartDeploy provides out-of-box
windows imaging support for over 1500 computer models. Deploy one windows image to
any hardware model with ease, with smart deploy. Get your free licenses worth over $500 at smartdeploy.com/linus. (upbeat music) My love of mobile PC gaming
started with installing ZS and S on an old cast off Pentium one laptop that my sister's dad was discarding. And to say that we've
come a long way since then would be a gross understatement. Compared to my Ayaneo founders. The upgraded pro 2021 model
adds two additional CPU cores, and SMT for a total of 16
CPU processing threads. And much more importantly,
it adds a Vega eight GPU. Now on paper, Vega
eight is about 30% wider and clocked about 15%
higher than Vegas six. Which not only puts the Neo 2021 pro ahead of the original Neo, but puts it within striking distance of the upcoming Steam Deck
featuring RDNA two graphics. At least according to how the Steam Deck was performing back when
I did my early preview. Let's take a look at what that performance difference
means in the real world. Starting with one of the
most common use cases for these handheld PCs. Indie and Casual PC games. Now 10 years ago, there wasn't much in the way of single-player controller
optimized titles for PC. But these days Steam
is practically overrun with everything from niche cult favorites like Crosscode to smash hits
like Among Us and Fall Guys. All of which run great on the Ayaneo pro. The 16 by ten seven inch
display is sharp enough at normal viewing distances
that I don't consider it's 1280 by 800
resolution to be a problem. And the speakers are markedly
better than first gen. (gaming music playing) The point where I would consider them to be actually usable for gaming. The problem is that because these types of games typically target the lowest common
denominator for hardware, they also run great on the original Neo or on just about anything. Making the cost of the 2021
pro really hard to justify. That's where we get into
big use case number two. Emulation. Now, in theory, any modern PC is so much
more powerful than a console from a couple of generations ago that running those games
should be easy, right? But in reality, emulating functions that are not built into a machines, hardware
can be extremely demanding. And this is where the
additional horsepower of the Neo 2021 pro is most felt. Older consoles like the Super Nintendo, PlayStation one, and even
PlayStation two run with ease. Pick this up. I've got Final Fantasy 10 running at six times the original resolution with a widescreen hack. That's right. That's not a PC port. That's the PlayStation two version. And since I'm able to run this with the SOC limited to just 11 Watts, I'd expect anywhere from three
and a half to four hours out of the 57 watt hour battery. Or maybe more depending
on the screen brightness. Side note, I actually found the indoor
sweet spot for the screen was about 20%. And even at minimum, I found it too bright at night. I also wasn't impressed with the amount of corner backlight bleed. So I think there is some
room for improvement here. The thing is, as soon as you get into emulating anything more modern though, it gets a bit dicey for
a couple of reasons. First up is the fact that
the original hardware that you're trying to mimic
is much more powerful. And second is that even for
a four-year-old console, like the Nintendo Switch, the enormous reverse
engineering efforts of a project like Yuzu, just playing
take a lot of time. Which is why the Ayaneo pro's
performance is so impressive. I did have to crank it up
to its 20 watt TDP profile and wild fan mode, which admittedly isn't
the greatest experience. If you're not wearing headphones due to the Neo pro's poorly
implemented fan speed control, (fan blowing) but it flipped and ran. For best performance, I turned Mario tennis ACEs down to about three quarters resolution and enabled AMD's FSR to
smooth out the jaggies. Now please note the flickering
lines are a known issue on AMD GPU's and the USI
team is aware of them but that shouldn't
undermine the impressiveness of the performance that we're seeing here. Of course, Mario tennis ACEs, isn't the most demanding
Nintendo game out there. Let's go back a generation
to the Wii U version of the Legend of Zelda:Breath
of the Wild running in CEMU. Breath of the Wild is a 30 FPS game. So that's our target to ensure that the physics is running in real time. And at 20 Watts in the wild fan profile, it actually runs really well
just about locked at 30 FPS. In fact, if we're willing
to accept a couple of stutters here and there, like you'd get on the
original Nintendo Switch, we can turn it down to even 15 Watts and still have an acceptable experience. This is actually a good
time to talk about the tool that I just used to do that. It's called Aya space. And it's a utility that Aya
built to make controlling the system a little bit more convenient. Just hit the keyboard
shortcut key on the right to bring it up over top of any borderless windowed
game or application. It has an included
joystick to mouse utility that automatically switches
modes reasonably well, bar some windows navigation issues. And within the slide-out here, you've got volume
brightness, power profiles, and a resolution changer up top. I actually really like this overlay. And then the bottom buttons
here are configurable in the main application, which
is accessed by long pressing. You can also use Aya space to
browse your installed games. Right now they support Steam
and Microsoft games though, supposedly support for
other launches is coming. And you can also add EFCs for unsupported
applications like emulators Though I didn't see an obvious
way to change the icon, which I would like to do. You can also fine tune the system to a surprising degree in here. The pro 2021 got upgraded
linear actuators for us rumble that I actually found to be
too strong out of the box. Thankfully, you can turn them down. And they feel great on the middle setting. Since we're in here, by the way, the ability to recalibrate
the joysticks is a huge deal. We haven't talked about
it much on this channel, but joystick drift is a problem that affects basically
every modern console or controller to some degree. Even a perfectly designed
stick will eventually drift as the internal components wear out. So being able to recenter them in software is an exciting idea that I kind of hope will
become more widely adopted in the future to keep otherwise
good controllers out of landfills. Just like our merchants always
going to stay at a landfill. Checkout out the black hoodies, we're doing really cool printing on them. lttstore.com. As for how good the controller is, I give it a B minus. Obviously some of my issues stem from the cramped Nintendo Switch style layout. But as someone who spent
many hours on the Switch, that wasn't my main problem. Compared to the original Ayaneo the new leadership over
there has a preference for longer travel buttons
that I just don't share. I found the new ABXY
and D pad switches mushy and unresponsive. And I would like to see them changed or at the very least implemented in a way that makes them swappable. Thankfully, the joysticks felt comfortable and accurate throughout my time with them. And the new analog triggers
are an absolute godsend. If you enjoy racing games. That alone was enough for me
to retire my founder's edition for good, and it gets better. The only real way to play AAA
games on previous handheld PCs was streaming from a cloud gaming service or a nearby desktop. And that changes with the Neo pro 2021. You name it, it runs. Not at the highest details mind you, but turning down eye candy like
shadows and texture quality is a lot less noticeable on a
seven inch screen than it is on a 24 inch screen and
everything from Doom Eternal to Forza Horizon five
to Halo Infinite brand without complaint at anywhere
between 30 to 60 FPS. That's a freaking game changer. And the craziest part is
this is just the beginning. Aya has the new Neo next
coming out very soon that upgrades the CPU course to Zen three. There's a huge boon for emulation and boosts the clock speed of
the onboard Begay graphics. Now I'm hesitant to
recommend that one just yet. Since I actually find myself
using the dedicated keys for Escape, Control alt delete
and Windows quite often, and it issues most of those. But I'm gonna reserve judgment
for once I have hands on with it, which should be pretty soon. It's not all sunshine and rainbows though. I already talked about the loud fan in the wild 20 watt profile. But what I haven't
discussed yet is the weight or battery life. Perhaps the biggest ergonomic
challenge is that compared to a device like the switch Owlette, the Neo pro 2021 is heavy. For the point where I would
almost never recommend using it without a surface to rest your hands on. Also while the battery life
was more than acceptable in the more economical profiles, we looped F1 2021 at the
highest performance profile and got just around two
hours of battery life. There's no performance drop
on battery, which is good, but that's less per charged than the notorious Sega Game Gear. And obviously it's a lot
less than the Switch if you don't mind being
stuck with Nintendo games. So I can understand then why
some folks might look at this and say "over a thousand dollars?" Why wouldn't I just buy a Switch for a few hundred that's fair. But I can also see the
other side of the argument. Where one might hook up a
bunch of mismatched controllers to game with their friends
or upgrade this baby. It would be a little more accessible, I ended up snapping a couple of eclipse but I put an eight terabyte
freaking SSD in here. I'm not crazy. Or you could even put the retro
power in its included dock to use it as a full fledged PC. The wild card here is the
Steam Deck, of course. Which comes at a much lower price. And hopefully I'll be able to preview it for you soon enough. But who knows when that's
actually going to ship, valve. But I know when I'm gonna tell you about our sponsor, Ekster. Ekster smart wallets are
high-end trackable wallet crafted to keep your valuables safe, slim and stylish. Their premium leather is sourced from LWG gold rated tanneries. Their quick card mechanism
gives you easy access to every card you need, and they feature RFID protection. So your money, cards and identity
are kept safe and secure. Ekster wallets are trackable worldwide through a solar powered
GPS tracker insert. So if you've lost your wallet, just use their app or call
through most virtual assistants. You can save up to 20% site-wide, enjoy a free gift bag with $150 purchase and see their special Valentine's bundle until February 14th. So go check it out at the link down below. If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe check out my previous
first look at the Steam Deck. It is shaping up to be a
really interesting year for handheld gaming.