- Today, we are building
the ultimate gaming PC. Liquid-cooled RTX 4090, AMD Ryzen 9 7950X. The only thing we're
missing is a dial-up modem. So I'm here today at Micro Center for the launch of that brand-new RTX 4090. And oh boy, are there are
a lot of people in line. Like a lot considering this
is a $1,600 graphics card and up, depending on which
one you actually pick. So wait, what time did you guys actually get here this morning? - Yesterday at like, around 8:00 PM. - [Austin] 8:00 PM, so you've
been here all night long. - Yeah
- At 8:00 PM the day before. - Yeah, he's been here two days. - [Austin] Oh, you got here two days ago! - Yeah.
- Can I ask a question? You guys know this a $1,600
graphics card, right? (laughs) - But yeah, dedication, man.
- It's cheap! - [Austin] It's cheap.
Wait, who said it's cheap? Sorry, where, where, where? - [Person In Black] I did my first build off your video nine years ago.
- [Austin] Oh, bro! - Did it all for 660. Look at me now. - [Austin] Let's go!
- Upgraded. - [Austin] Nine years later you got a slightly better graphics card. - Yeah.
- [Austin] Just slightly. - You were there for the RTX 3070 as well. - [Austin] You were here for RTX 3070 too! - [Person In Yellow Cap] Yeah, yeah. - [Austin] Wait, so
you're buying the 4090, and you're just here to support? - Yeah.
- Yeah! - [Austin] Oh my God!
- Really nice. - [Austin] What a great friend. This is all for a $1,600 graphics card. You can always get it at Micro Center. Okay, so we got a few cards here and by a few I mean... (laughs) Hopefully I think everyone in line is gonna be able to get
what they're looking for. Can I find a graphics
card to start out with? - [Store Bystander]
Thanks, always a pleasure. - [Staff Member] Yes. - [Austin] Okay! So this is the MSI... Is it SUPRIM or SUPRIM? Supreme, SUPRIM? Of course every 4090
is incredibly high-end, right, when you look at the performance. But this is liquid-cooled, which means that I'm gonna have a fun time trying to fit this in the case. (laughs) So let's start with this, then. This is like, bigger
than like an Xbox box. How do I even?
- Xbox box? - No one help me, okay? I can do this. (energetic electronic music) Ta-da, easily the largest graphics card I have ever touched with human hands. So the real challenge with
this build is going to be in properly taking advantage of this 4090. By default, the 4090
without even touching it is gonna give us a ton of performance, but it won't give us
the maximum performance if we don't pair it with
essentially as much CPU horsepower as we can throw at it. I mean, I don't think there's
gonna be much debate here. I think we gotta go
straight for a Ryzen 9. - Thank you, good sir.
- So this is a good start. For board, I feel like
let's go with the X670E ACE. - [Staff Member] The one in the- - The one in the case that
we definitely just planted five seconds ago for the video. No, I mean, I'm sorry. Sorry. One of the things to consider when you're building with these cards, especially with something like a 4090, is not only the power but also the case. A lot of the traditional
cases that I would use simply will not fit a 4090. - [Jared] I like the look of that. - [Austin] Actually, a LANCOOL
III would work, wouldn't it? We also need space for both the power and the actual liquid
cooling to come out the side because the whole card is gonna come out. Oh did you just get the? (laughs) - [Staff Member] It was here. - (laughs) I appreciate
the support, my friend. We're almost there. The last major thing we're
going to need for this build- - [Daniel] Hey, it's Austin!
- Is going to be... Yo, what's good, man?
- I'm Daniel. I see your videos all the time. - [Austin] Oh! - I think you hang out
here all the time, yeah. - That's awesome. Well,
you're in one right now. - Oh, hey! (laughs)
(Austin laughs) So this build might not
seem as polished as normal, but the thing is, this is
launch day for the RTX 4090. There are a lot of things that
we have never experienced. We've never built with this card before. Even Ryzen 7000 is pretty new.
- It's still, yeah. - There's a lot of things to consider. So this is actually like a
legitimate learning process for us and hopefully we
get it right 'cause... - If we don't, we're screwed. - So this is gonna be fun. Not only are we building the
most powerful gaming computer I've ever built, this is gonna be one of the most powerful
computers that money could buy because with this 4090
with a Ryzen 9 7950X, I don't know how you
can get more performance out of a gaming computer. Like, I really don't. Let's go ahead and take
a look inside this 4090 I mean, the fact that
you can run games at 4K 120 frames per second with
ray tracing is gnarly. But then this takes it
to a whole other level because it's liquid-cooled. Look at this box. It
comes with a mouse pad? - [Crew Member] What? - [Austin] It's an actual dual slot card. - [Crew Member] Oh my God! - A normal, quote unquote "normal" 4090 is entirely air-cooled, which means that the
card is going to be huge. But this is a true dual
slot card because, well, it has some help when it
comes to the radiator. So you might wanna get used
to looking at this connector because this is the new standard. However, not everyone's power supply is up to the PCI 5.0 spec, which is where this adapter comes in. So on one side you can
see that it is 16 pins. On the other side you might
wanna plug in an eight pin or two eight pins or three eight pins or four eight pins into one connector! - Next year we're just
gonna have to hook our PCs up to a nuclear reactor,
just power it directly - [Austin] Flux capacitor maybe. - Flux capacitor. - Straight on the back of the system. I would recommend to look for a power supply which is ATX 3.0. Let's take look at some
of our other components. Wow, that's a heavy board, man. Whoa! - [Crew Member] Oh my, oh my God! (laughs) Why? - We've done one video
on a Ryzen 7000 so far where we used a Ryzen 7 7700X,
which was very powerful. But this is basically double. So this, my friends is the Ryzen 9 7950X. 16 cores and a boost clock, I think 5.7 gigahertz right out the box. - [Crew Member] Oh my god.
What are we doing here? - We're gamers. We don't
compromise, we just... - [Crew Member] Live in excess. - Yeah, this is like the
Metallica of gaming PCs. - I still don't know. I
don't know who that is. - Give me one title of a Metallica song. Nope, nope! Get your
hands off the keyboard! Hands off the keyboard!
(crew laughing) The other thing is, if
you haven't built a PC with the brand-new Ryzen
7000 Series processors is that yes, you will need
to get an AM5 motherboard, but one of the nice things is, is that we have completely
changed the type of socket. So now we've got pins on the actual socket instead of the CPU. You can see it's got that nice little line so it's very easy to kinda line them up. While it's still a new socket, it maintains compatibility
with AM4 coolers. So anything like our Galahad
should just bolt straight on to your brand new AM5 chip. Let's load up some RAM. Look, I'm gonna be real. I'm enjoying this part of the build 'cause this is the easy
part and not the part where I have to actually figure out how this is all gonna
get stuffed into the case 'cause this is gonna be tight. Let's throw in our SSD, in fact. That's funny, even
though it's been out for, oh man, it's probably
almost two years now, I still think the Samsung 980
PRO is my favorite SSD still. The performance, the reliability. Ooh! That's a beefy heat sink. So the actual mounting mechanism here, not only do you have the
little plastic retention, which is nice so you can just
kind of slide it right around, but on top of that you've
got this little ball so essentially it kind
of pops into place here. So literally completely
toolless installation between popping the SSD in as
well as pulling the cover on. It all just pops together. (device clicks in)
Oh, wow. Look at that. This is actually my first time working with the LIAN LI LANCOOL III. A lot of our components are
black, silver, and white. What are you doing? I heard tape and I
immediately grabbed the camera 'cause I knew something bad was going on. - Look, you mismatched
the color scheme on our- - [Austin] I mismatched what? - So this is a black radiator.
We're making it white. - [Austin] I hate that this is actually not like a horrible idea
and it's just a bad idea. - You know, I have done
this way too many times to the point where you
have not even noticed. - [Austin] Okay, well
speaking of spilled... - [Kenneth] Spilled? - [Austin] Speaking of
being a skilled crafts... - [Kenneth] (snickers) Yeah?
(crew laughing) - Speaking of being a skilled craftsman, we have ripped out a whole
lot of stuff from the case. So we've pretty much removed
every like two-and-a-half-inch and three-and-a-half-inch
sort of drive Bay. Anything we can do to not
only sort of free ourselves up with some extra cooling but also to give ourselves some extra room for some cable management. I've flipped that rear fan. We've got the three fans
all set up as intake. We've got the power supply on
the bottom, but importantly the power supply is
actually facing downward so it is entirely focused
on pushing that hot air out of the power supply. Well, my friends, that actually went, I will say, pretty
smoothly all considering. What did this take us? An hour and a half, maybe two hours total? So why don't we just see if
this actually posts, shall we? Plug it in, make sure
the power supply is on. Do we have any RGB action? - [Crew Member] Nope. - Okay, well, here goes nothing. - [Austin And Crew Members] Whoa! - That's a lotta RGB! RAM's coming up. Graphics
card's coming up. Hey!
- Hey! ♪ Hey, oh, hey, oh ♪ ♪ It's time to make a
video about this PC ♪ - I don't wanna brag, but I
think this worked first try. So you've probably seen the
wealth of AI-generated art that has flooded the internet this year thanks to various different
services such as DALL-E. You've got Stable Diffusion,
you've got Midjourney. Sorry, DALL-E 2. I apologize. Typically what you have
to do with these things is pay for tokens online or subscription or right through Discord. But using something
called Stable Diffusion, we can actually do our
own AI art generation on a computer, and let me tell
you what that loves to have. The maximum amount of bandwidth and GPU horsepower you
can possibly throw at it. - So I'm gonna do just the, this is like the basic
default prompt they have. A photograph of an
astronaut riding a horse. - [Austin] Okay. - So this is gonna be my baseline. If this is as powerful as I think it is, this should be like 20 seconds tops. - [Austin] Oh wow, that's fast. Oh my God, look how fast that is. - Bam!
- Whoa! - 16.611 seconds for that.
- Again, on a 3070 Ti laptop, that image by itself
was 45 seconds, maybe. - So this is another one I've tried, but we're also gonna crank this up. Four of these at the same time, double the resolution, make image. - Now power draw wise, we are at 456 watts so this thing is pulling some power. Dude, the detail on this, like
the resolution is massive. I'm not sure why he has a
hole on the side of his head. - [Matt] But we'll fix that in a second. - [Austin] I think the second
one looks to me a lot better. Oh yeah, as it's cleaning
up and getting the detail. - [Staff Member] This one's just like, I'm tired of this. (censored)
(crew member laughing) - [Crew Member] So why is his tail off? (crew members laughing) - [Austin] All right, so what I wanna try is RTX 4090 graphics card. Oh, okay, hey, hey,
that's a graphics card. - Yeah.
- Graphics card. Graphics card. Look, it's working! I mean, that's not RTX. That's definitely a little AMD look. - I will refine the selection. Green graphics card, computer, metal. - [Austin] My dude,
that's quite the prompt. - [Kenneth] This looks
like an NVIDIA commercial. - [Crew Member] Oh this is kind of sick. - [Matt] It does like
to do that weird thing where it like, it just,
instead of rendering out an entire image, it'll
just crop like to the side. - It's artsy, right?
- Yeah. - [Crew Member] It's artsy. - So after spending time
with Stable Diffusion and kind of seeing the power of this 4090, I think it's worth taking
a look at some other demos. This is the classroom demo in Blender, which is rendering a
1536 by 8640 pixel image. Now, I will say that I don't
typically do a lot of stuff in Blender, but looking
at the level of detail with this system, I mean, look at this. Look at how in-depth. Like, that's crazy. All rendered in 13 minutes on the 4090. So we are running "Cyberpunk
2077" at 4K ultra settings, no DLSS, and we've got the
ray tracing set to psycho. Oh, wow.
- Whoa. (laughs) - [Austin] We figured it out!
- Man! - 4K psycho, that's the only thing that can bring this thing down! Why don't we actually try to
turn it from psycho to ultra. Turn a little DLSS on and see. There we go, 68 FPS. This is actually like a
weird problem to have. Before, if you're building a gaming PC, you can always push it higher, especially as soon as
ray tracing was invented. But now we've got the capability, if you've got a very
large amount of money, to build a system which can crush almost every single thing
you could throw at it, which almost begs the question,
is this excess excessive? I think it is. You don't
need this much performance. If you want it, our kind
sponsors at Micro Center would be happy to sell you
all the high-end PC components that you could ever want. But I think for mere mortals,
we don't need this power.