- When our friends over at ASUS hit me up and said, "Hey, we've
got this brand new laptop we're launching at CES. Can you take a look at it? Can we sponsor a video?" I said, "Hell yeah, brother." Because when you see
what's inside this box, not only is it dope, it's
actually priced reasonably, unlike a lot of the wonderful
things that get announced at CES every year, which
are astronomically expensive and ship after like a year. This thing is going on sale shortly, and it is, I will say,
actually reasonable. Standard caveats, this
is a pre-production unit, so I'm gonna have to be a
little bit careful with it. I don't have, at this moment,
the exact release date, but this is the new ZenBook Duo. The idea is that this is a laptop, which essentially is very
similar in form factor to a normal laptop, except that it has a detachable keyboard and two completely separate OLED displays. Oh, snap. Oh, I knew this was coming. I knew I was gonna be
able to play with this before CES, which is when
you're watching this video, but I've been waiting
to get my hands on it. So from the outside, this might
look like a standard laptop. But when you open it up,
what you're gonna see is that we have a beautiful 14-inch OLED and a detachable keyboard
with a second OLED inside. So the advantage to something like this is that you have two
full-sized 14-inch displays in the laptop form factor, and there are a ton of different modes of how you can actually use this. The kicker, it costs $1,500. Now, yes, that is a lot of money. When you consider that
other dual-screen laptops are $2,000 plus, and these foldable laptops can go to be four or $5,000 in some cases, the fact that this is only
a little bit more expensive than an equivalent ZenBook and has two whole displays
on it, (clicks tongue) man. There should also be a
number of accessories because this is, well, this
is a real special laptop. Yeah, I don't know why
it comes with a backpack. I'll be honest, that
seems a little excessive. It's a nice backpack. While it boots up, it does have... Oh, it's already logged in. Ha ha, I knew that. (ethereal music) Wow, wait, that's neat. Let's go on a journey
of discovery, shall we? So this is the ZenBook Duo running in what I would call
traditional laptop mode. So I've got my keyboard,
I've got my track pad. Everything seems to be completely normal. When it's running in this configuration, the bottom display is off and this keyboard and
track pad are attached via these pogo pins and magnets, right? So you don't have to
charge anything like that. If I want, I can take off the keyboard and then it switches
over to wireless mode, and then the second
display turns on as well. It will charge via the device,
or it does have a USB-C. So, technically, you could
actually plug this in wired, connect it via wireless,
or drop it straight on. So it's a lot of different modes for the keyboard specifically. And then if I pull out the kickstand, which is built onto the bottom, I have myself a huge amount
of screen real estate. And then I have a wireless
keyboard and track pad, which literally just feels
like the bottom of a laptop. Yeah, it is completely flawless. And the other thing that makes this cool is that these displays are OLED. So you've got dual 2.8K,
120 Hertz OLED panels. So inside, this is running
the new Intel Core 7 Ultra 155H, which means it is
a proper H-series processor. It has the Arc graphics. This one's outfitted
with 32-gigabytes of RAM. So while this doesn't
have a dedicated GPU, you still have the neural processing with the NPU that's built in. And again, it is the
H-series of these processors, which is not what you might expect from a thin and light sort
of laptop with dual displays. So while you're not gonna
probably want to game on it, or would you? Wait, wait, can I do vertical gaming? How cool is this? On top of that, there is a mode, and I don't know how it works, but you can put this on its side. Oh, you rotate it. That's how it goes on its side. Now, the only thing is, I
don't know how it stands. - [Ken] You don't need the stand. You don't need the stand. - Oh, it literally stands up by itself. - [Ken] Yeah, yeah. - Now, let me actually see, there's a bunch of other stuff
that I know is included here. So we've got ourselves the power adapter, but also included is the ASUS Pen. So, of course, both displays
are full touchscreens. And on top of that, I'm not
gonna personally do this, but if you wanted to, you
could just take the keyboard and get rid of it, and you actually can, I
think it's six fingers. Yeah, so this is a little bit strange, but look, you can, if you want, turn on a software keyboard and touch pad. I don't fully know why
you would wanna do this, if I'm honest with you, because you have a very
nice keyboard and touch pad that are included in the box. But technically, I could type like this. Oh, well, yeah, I will
say the glass touch pad does actually feel kind of cool, right? I mean, look at this. That's kind of neat. - Oh, that actually
does feel kind of nice. - It does, and if you want,
you can press this button and the touch pad is the full size. - Oh, that's why I would want to use this. Okay, hear me out, hear me out. Like, it's cool that you're
doing this on a desk, but here's the idea. Put that on. Come join me here. You know, some cafes
have those like setups where they have the couch and then like a coffee
table in the middle, you know, a little lounge setup. Put that here. Like, just the laptop. Nope, no, no, no, no. First of all, we're in public.
- Oh, oh. - Put the laptop here. - Laptop here?
- Yeah, do the kickstand. - Kickstand?
- Yep. And now grab your
keyboard, and lounge back. - Oh my God, it works.
(Ken laughs) Now, boom, look at this. I've got myself a dual-screen display that I'm using just as
if it was right here. And honestly, like, the
tracking and the Bluetooth, everything feels really strong. Let me spend a little
bit of time with this. I know that there are actually
a couple of other modes and a couple of other
things that we can do, but man, that is so cool. Now that I've spent some
time with the ZenBook Duo, I have a lot of thoughts. So, first and foremost is the
actual spec of this model. So this is a review unit, so it actually has a slightly different sort of configuration. So this one is outfitted with the new Intel Core Ultra 7 processor, although you can also outfit
it with a Core Ultra 9. The other thing is the price. So the base model of the ZenBook
Duo does start at $1,500. I'll talk a little bit more
about that in a minute, but there's one important caveat. So that model has a slightly
lower resolution display. So that starts with a 1200p display, or rather two 1200p displays. Whereas the model I have
here has two 1800p displays. Before I tell you about
all the great stuff, let me just give you a couple
of the minor trade-offs, because there are some. They're minor, but there are some. So, first and foremost,
there's actually the weight. As you would expect, adding
two displays to a laptop and having a detachable
keyboard, track pad, as well as a hinge on the
back does add some weight. So this weighs 3.6 pounds, which is a little on the hefty side for a productivity laptop
without a dedicated GPU. In fact, for context, the
brand new ROG Zephyrus G14, that ASUS also make, this actually weighs
in at only 3.3 pounds. So it's lighter weight than this, and it has a full RTX 4070 inside. Although, if I'm being honest, it's not really a fair comparison because, again, you do
have those dual displays. Now when it comes to
using it in laptop mode, you'll notice the heft, right? I'll just be honest, you do notice that it's a little bit on the heavy side. And I can also say the same
thing about the kickstand. At first glance, it
looks a little bit janky because it is sort of
really bolted onto the back. It's not really integrated
into the back of the laptop in a way that I would like to see. That being said, because this
is not an optional accessory, this is not like some
stands that you have to, you know, unfold out of the box. It is always attached to
the back of the laptop. It means that it is essentially effortless  to set the laptop down,
pop the kickstand out, pull the keyboard off, and you are instantly ready to go with that dual-screen action. It is mildly annoying to
feel when it's on your lap. But honestly, it's small
enough and it's not that thick, so it doesn't really bother me. Now you're probably wondering
what's battery life like on a dual-screen laptop? Well, the answer is, pretty good, or not so great, based
(laughs) on how you use it. So ASUS thought ahead and outfitted this with a quite
large 75-watt-hour battery. Now, I've primarily used
it in dual-screen mode with the brightness high and both screens running at 120 Hertz. With that and normal use, you know, not super demanding stuff, web browsing, that kind of thing, I'm getting about four to
five hours of battery life. But the number one way to improve your battery
life is a simple one. Put the keyboard on and turn
off that second display. At that point, you're going
to get something closer to probably seven to eight hours, I would say, for normal use, which is, in my opinion, enough for most people to get through a pretty solid workday. Considering the pricing, considering what they've been able to do, ASUS have absolutely
knocked it out of the park. I never really thought
that a dual-screen laptop or a foldable laptop was all that interesting to me personally. Like, I've always thought that the laptop form factor is terrific, but the cleverness of this design and the way that they've engineered it, both on the hardware and the
software side. (hands clapping) - Thank you very much
for watching this video. If you want, subscribe to the channel, and you'll see lots of cool CES content. I'm LEGO Austin, AKA Neville, and I approve this message. - I couldn't agree more. Thank you very much for watching. Subscribe to the channel. Check out the ZenBook Duo in
the link of the description. And if you'll excuse me, I'll be at CES taking lots of notes on my
neat-o dual-screen laptop. - Oh, boy.