On April 19th 2022, GE Healthcare's 
Pharmaceutical Diagnostics division reported   that their Omnipaque production facility 
in Shanghai was unexpectedly shut down. It was because of COVID. Earlier that 
month, the Shanghai government locked   down the megacity's 26 million residents in 
a peculiar effort to restrain rising cases. When the factory started back up again,   it was only at about 25% production 
capacity. Supply to the US was cut by   80% and was not expected to normalize over 
the next 8 weeks or so until June 2022. The lockdown of this single Shanghai 
factory had massive repercussions for   millions of people receiving treatment in 
the United States and a few other countries. What is this chemical and why is it so important? 
In this video we are going to talk about iodinated   contrast and that brief but concerning time 
in 2022 when we suddenly ran out of it. ## Beginnings In 1895 we discovered X-rays, which offered 
a tantalizing look into the human body. But doctors then discovered a problem. You can   X-ray a person and see their 
bones. No problem with that. However the other various parts inside the 
human body have similar densities to each   other. X-rays passed through them all the 
same, making them effectively invisible.   So how can we look at things like 
veins, arteries, or other such vessels? Thus came the idea of "contrast media" - X-ray   absorbing materials to illuminate 
the soft bits of human anatomy. The search began almost immediately. In 
1896 came the first success. A pair of   doctors - Haschek and Lindenthal 
- injected mercury sulphide and   lime into an amputated hand and then 
exposed it to X-rays for 57 minutes. The first substances used for living patients were   heavy metals administered in the form 
of insoluble salts and oxides. They   worked - kind of. Patients tolerated them 
poorly, which limited their application. In the 1910s, a guy named J. Edward 
Burns - apt name as we are about to   find out - tried a solution of water, sodium 
citrate, and oh my god 10% thorium nitrate. Later on in the 1930s, they started using 
a suspension of thorium dioxide. They   called it Thorotrast and it worked totally great! That is until it dawned upon us that 
thorium is radioactive ... and that   your body accumulated it inside you 
until it caused tumors ... and those   tumors quickly became cancers. So 
yeah, we needed something else. ## Iodine In 1922, Dr. Earl Osborne of the Mayo Clinic 
was studying how the body processes iodine. This was not for random curiosity. People were 
getting injected with large amounts of iodine   as a treatment for syphilis. Probably want 
to know where it goes after the injection. Osborne showed that sodium iodide 
was being picked up by the kidneys   and peed out. Leonard Rowntree - the 
Mayo Clinic's Chief of Medicine at the   time - remembered that sodium 
iodide was opaque to X-rays. So he theorized that injecting 
iodine into the body would allow   you to see the veins of the 
urinary tract with X-rays. And lo and behold, that was what happened. The 
results were published in a landmark 1923 paper. ## Swick These early iodine-based contrast 
media were difficult to use. Iodine was less toxic than something like 
freakin' thorium. But because it was not   a heavy metal, you had to inject 
a large amount for decent images. As a result, patients also needed general 
anesthesia to be injected with it. Ideally,   it would be nice to find a water-soluble 
alternative with less toxicity. Moses Swick invented the first such possible 
candidate in 1929, Uroselectan - a salt with   one iodine atom. Urologists injected patients with 
it to visualize stones and other malformations. Uroselectan and its sibling Diodone 
would dominate its market for 20 years.   Unfortunately the credit for Swick's work 
erroneously went to another doctor - Professor   von Lichtenberg. Swick needed to wait 
many years before he got his due. Four years later, Swick and his collaborator 
Wallingford introduced a six-carbon aromatic   benzene ring. It had 3 iodine atoms 
which made it quite visible to X-rays,   but toxicity issues kept it from wide use. But then in the early 1950s, we discovered 
that adding two other chemicals - side   chains - to the benzene ring made it 
less toxic. And thus Urografin as it   was called became the contrast media 
of choice for the next 30-40 years. ## Pain Even so, these contrast solutions 
were hardly a walk in the park. In the early 1960s, a Swedish radiologist named   Torsten Almen had to inject patients 
with this stuff. It hurt. A lot. And   it emotionally disturbed him to see them 
suffer such pain from these injections. One day, he injected a patient while prepping 
them for a lingual arteriogram. Such a thing   is used for visualizing the arteries in 
the tongue. The poor patient - who already   had tongue cancer - experienced a pain so 
intense that they could not see clearly. On that fateful day, Almen - who was a 
clinical radiologist, not a researcher - became   obsessed with finding a new, less painful 
alternative. And he had an idea. He recalls: > I realized that every time I injected 
contrast media the patients experienced pain,   but not following the physiological sodium 
chloride (saline) to rinse the catheter. > At the same time, I remembered that 
when swimming in the salty water of   the west coast of Sweden as a child my eyes burnt,   but did not in the brackish water of the 
Baltic Sea outside my home town Ystad. > It must be the hypertonicity of the 
contrast media solutions that caused the pain. When Almen says "hypertonicity", he is referring 
to the fact that the injected contrast medium is   highly concentrated in solutes like salts. 
More concentrated than a cell's cytoplasm. So when you inject someone 
with a hypertonic solution,   you are creating an imbalance in 
pressures inside and outside the cell. Thusly, the water in the cells suddenly rush 
out of them to right the balance. In doing so,   the cells experience stress or even death - 
releasing inflammatory chemicals in doing so. So Almen did some self-study in chemistry. He 
found that Thorotrast might have caused cancer,   but it didn't hurt at the time of injection. He also found a paper from the 1930s of an 
experiment by a Japanese researcher that   found that injections of isotonic or moderately 
hypertonic iodinated oils did not cause pain. From there, he came up with three ideas for 
a non-painful contrast medium. The third   idea was to create a water-soluble molecule 
without certain groups of atoms included. Removing these atoms makes the medium 
significantly less concentrated.   This third idea led to what we now call 
non-ionic iodinated contrast media. ## Non-Ionic Iodinated For the next three years, Almen met with various 
pharmaceutical companies in Sweden and the US. None of them were interested in his idea.   Finally in 1968, the head of research at the 
Norwegian pharmaceutical company Nyegaard & Co   recognized the value of developing such 
a compound and agreed to work with him. In November 1968, they synthesized 
the first candidate non-ionic contrast   medium. Unfortunately, that one was 
far too toxic for regular use. After   a year and about 80 compounds, 
one emerged out of the pack. Compound 16 as it was called is a glucose amide 
of metrizoate. Metrizoate is the iodine-based   contrast medium. It is joined to glucose via 
a class of chemical compounds called an amide.   It is today called metrizamide, or Amnipaque. ## Amnipaque Amnipaque first entered the 
market in the early 1970s. It is far less painful and less neurotoxic 
than current alternatives - making it suitable   for spine scans. Metrizamide went on to become a 
huge hit, the first non-painful contrast medium. Even so, there was room for improvement. 
Metrizamide cost 15 to 20 times more   than the existing options. So it might not have 
hurt the body, but it certainly hurt the wallet. It also came as a freeze-dried powder and needed   to be dissolved into water before 
use, which means a lot of shaking. Early radiologists recall with some 
bitterness all the hours they spent   shaking metrizamide bottles 
during their residencies. So Nyegaard started development 
on a compound to deal with these   shortcomings and in 1982 developed the 
second generation contrast medium, Iohexol. Iohexol is sold in the market as 
Omnipaque. It is isotonic to human plasma,   thus reducing pain. And it is so less 
toxic that salespeople joked that the   test mice would burst before getting a toxic dose. ## Today In the United States, there are two widely 
used contrast agents - Iohexol and Iopamidol. Together the two have 90% US 
market share with the former   taking about 50% in the US and 75% in Australia. It is estimated that two doses of Iohexol 
or its close counterpart Iodixanol - also   marketed by GE Healthcare as Visipaque - 
are injected every second around the world. Iohexol sales and royalties helped 
make Nyegaard one of Norway's biggest   pharmaceutical companies and Almen, very rich man. Nyegaard later merged with Amersham Health and   then was acquired by GE Healthcare 
in 2003 for 9.5 billion dollars. Today, GE still produces the active pharmaceutical 
ingredients for Iohexol in Lindesnes, Norway. The Iohexol is then sent to GE's Omnipaque fill 
and finish facilities in Shanghai and Cork,   Ireland. There, the factories mix and prepare, 
sterilize, inspect, and package the Iohexol. Almen used his money to fund additional 
contrast studies at the Malmo General   Hospital. He passed away in 2016 at 
the age of 83, a life well lived. ## Contrast Scans, a Big Deal Modern healthcare is highly 
dependent on radiologic   imaging for diagnosing and treating people. Imagine doing the wrong treatment because   you were not able to properly 
see what was happening inside. According to Harvard Medical School - never heard 
of those guys before - over 80 million contrast   scans are performed each year in the United 
States. Back in 1980, that was just 3 million. One study in 2019 found that we do almost 
30,000 contrast-enhanced CT scans per 100,000   patients. Outpatient hospitals ran 10,728 
of that and Emergency Rooms, 8,740 scans. Most of which were for abdomen and pelvis 
scans. Second to that are chest scans. This CT scan boom makes iodinated contrast 
drugs some of the most commonly used. With   some 120 million doses each year in the United 
States and another 100 million worldwide. ## Contrast Supply Most hospitals operate on a just-in-time basis 
so they were not stockpiling any contrast media. For a long time, that was 
fine because the stuff was   plentiful. Dr. Gopal Punjabi at Hennepin 
Healthcare said in a May 2022 interview: > We use it like water. It’s just, it’s 
there, we use it all the time ... Our   current supply is about four weeks’ 
worth. I think in about two or three   weeks we’ll have to start making some hard 
decisions if we don’t locate more contrast GE has one other factory producing Omnipaque over 
in Ireland. But when the April 2022 lockdown in   Shanghai happened, that Ireland factory 
was already operating at full capacity. There are three other companies making 
this stuff for the American market - Bayer,   Bracco Diagnostics, and Guerbet. Certain 
American hospitals using these other   suppliers - Boston Medical Center, for 
instance - were largely unaffected.   However, the competitors can not scale 
up in time to make up for GE’s shortfall. And Interestingly enough, the GE factory 
shutdown did not affect locations outside   of the United States that much with 
the exception of Australia. China   and Europe apparently had their 
own roster of domestic suppliers. ## Hospital Responses: Cut Dosages Hospitals affected by the 
shortage responded to the   sudden and unexpected supply 
shock in three major ways. First, they began limiting the doses 
of contrast medium used for each scan.   Newer CT scanners can handle doses up to 
66% smaller at the cost of higher noise. Simpler steps were also taken to 
cut down on waste. For instance,   single use vials were divided and 
repackaged into smaller syringes. ## Hospital Responses: Cut Scans Second, some hospitals started operating CT 
scans on a "acute risk of life and limb" basis. This means that scans were only done for specific   emergency situations like 
severe trauma or hemorrhage. If it was not critical then the 
procedure was delayed. Or if the   doctor can do the diagnosis without 
the imaging - like if the potential   stroke patient is showing obvious signs - 
then they can skip or postpone the scan. Some sought alternative scanning 
technologies. For instance,   a magnetic resonance imaging or 
MRI. You sit inside it for a long   time and it goes GONK GONK GONK until 
you lose your mind from claustrophobia. Or a magnetic resonance angiography or 
MRA. Which works along the same principles. Or an ultrasound. It generates and 
sends sound waves into the body   which are reflected back to the machine depending   on the acoustic characteristics of the 
flesh. The machine then visualizes that. Or a Doppler ultrasonography, which is a 
type of scan that uses the Doppler effect   to visualize the movement, velocity 
and direction of blood in our veins. Or finally, just a plain old 
CAT scan without contrast media. ## Hospital Responses: Find Alternatives Third and last resort, you could try 
using a different contrast medium. What different medium you used 
depended on the specific scan.   You might take barium orally for 
abdominal and pelvic CT scans,   though this won't work if it might leak 
out of a perforation in the intestines. Another studied alternative are mediums 
based on gadolinium. Gadolinium is a   rare earth that has been used as a 
contrast medium for MRIs since 1988. When injected, it is usually flushed out 
by the kidneys after 2 hours. However if   the patient has Chronic Kidney Disease 
or any sort of decreased renal function, then the injection puts them at risk of 
developing Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis,   a hardening of the skin, tissues 
under the skin, and skeletal muscle. Therefore, using gadolinium-based contrast mediums   for X-rays is considered off-label use by 
the FDA. It is basically a last resort. Oh, also it costs about 4-5 times than 
iodinated contrast mediums. And since   it is a rare earth element, it 
is only available from China. ## The Shortage Ends On June 8th 2022, GE Healthcare announced that its Shanghai 
facility was back at full capacity again. Local COVID restrictions had been eased 
at that time. By the next month July 2022,   things were largely back to normal. GE has since taken steps to protect against 
future shocks and meet future anticipated demand. This includes a $30 million expansion for 
their Ireland production facility as well   as an $80 million expansion in their active 
pharmaceutical ingredient facility in Norway. There was no mention of the facility in Shanghai,   but I reckon it is also getting an expansion due 
to the growing contrast medium market in China ## Conclusion The Shanghai Iohexol supply chain 
disruption says many things. First, it reminds us of how important 
events occurring far away can bring home   big feathery chickens to roost. 
Even when not directly affected,   second order effects and other ripples in the 
pond can turn into tsunamis that overwhelm us. Second, we should check as to how 
the American healthcare system came   to be so dependent on a just-in-time 
system for these critical materials. To point, the actual ingredient was 
still widely available - it was the   packaging and finishing step in the 
chain that was so broken. Why was   so much of this critical medium being 
finished in China during the pandemic? Third and finally, we should take a second to 
acknowledge the decades of hard work, personal   struggle, and intense chemistry research to have 
come up with the contrast mediums we have today. This stuff is a little piece of magic of its own. 
We literally inject ourselves with a heavy X-ray   stopping liquid, and it is not only safe 
but non painful. That is pretty awesome.