- Hey guys, this is Austin. I just spent a lot of money
on tech from a pawn shop, so we're talking MacBook,
Xbox, Switch, PlayStation, you name it, to find out
should you buy your tech at a pawn shop or not. - [Ken] Who asked you this question? - No one asked me this question, but it needs to be answered regardless. Okay, that's a lot. So, we went maybe a little
overboard, but you know. So, the grand total for everything we purchased here was $830. Next, we have one of my favorite items, which is a 2011 MacBook, I believe. And we actually did a video on a MacBook very similar to this recently, and it's actually really straight forward to upgrade one of these guys to be a completely usable
system today here in 2020. So, first of all, I actually
wanna take this apart a little bit and make sure
that it's in decent condition. This is a very sturdy case, wow, okay. What the fu, dude, come on, man? I got this, I got this, there we go, okay. (upbeat music) Yeah, okay, that's not great. Well, actually, you know what,
no, no, no, this is fine. It's a little bit scratched
but it's mostly just dirty. This is literally just
wiping off with my finger. The shift key actually has, it looks like it's been melted or warped. There's a little dent in it. All right, what do we have here? Oh, that looks very boring, okay. That looks like a, what
the, this is just dust, ugh! - [Ken] Plaster.
- Plaster, yeah. Oh, look, there's also a little
bit of stickiness over here. I wonder if someone at some point spilled a drink on their laptop. Ah, man, I miss Magsafe, just that satisfying
metallic magnet, clonk. So, it is the i7 model, so
it actually is an upgrade. So, that's like second gen Sandy Bridge, four gigs of ram, HD 3000 graphics, as well as we have the display. We have that 250 gig
hard drive showing up, as well as we have the four gigs of ram. - We got it. - Yeah, see, 1080p video works no problem. However, I think we may
have paid slightly too much for this guy. So, it's only just a little bit less than that 2012 MacBook that I bought, and the main difference is
that was just new enough to be still supported under
Mac OS, very easy to upgrade. This guy is just one year behind, which means that, well, we
really can't do that much to it as far as on the software side. This one I'm gonna give like a eh, it's about the right price, but I feel like we could
have got this on eBay for pretty much the exact same amount. Next up we have our $40 PlayStation One. Now, what really drew us to this one was pretty much entirely the condition. Most of the time, you
look at these things, they start to yellow, they start to get a little bit beat up, but this is in pretty
much perfect condition. It also helps that I
had to use one of these for the build off, and maybe
caused some problems with it. So, regardless, I need
another PlayStation. So, let's toss a copy of Gran Turismo in and see if this thing actually works. I really hope it does. (PlayStation boot chime) Mmm. Oh. (PlayStation chime intensifies) Wooh, oof, oof, it gives me chills, man. (upbeat music) I played so much Gran
Turismo, not even funny. (upbeat music) Oh no, no! No, no! Get in there. I'm not, no, no, you
don't, no, you don't. I am not losing this race. I need fifth at least. All right, I got him here. They always go really wide here. There we go, there we go, there we go, there we go, there we go. Cheating. Yeah, come on, a little bit. Yes, go, go, go! How am I out dragging a Mustang? Whatever, oh, I've got the Evo, too. I got the Evo, I got the Evo, yes! Yes, yes, look, Gran Turismo
2 is the game I grew up with. Does it matter I didn't actually win? That's totally fine. All right, so, we'll
continue with the video. Let's take a look at the Switch next. One thing I can really say about
the exterior of the Switch, it a little bit sort of beat up here. You know you have that sweat on your hands and it kind of eats
through plastic sometimes? It's a little bit smooth 'cause you can see someone definitely kind of, it's not beaten up or anything, but it's a little bit sort of weathered. If I only had enough
charge to actually turn on. We'll be right back.
(clock ticking) So, while we wait for
the Switch to charge, let's take a look at our 29.95 Apple TV. A lot of people are selling
it for between 30 and $40. So, this is actually a
perfectly reasonable price. That actually looks pretty,
oh, hey, look at that. And it works, let's get this on, oh. - [Man] Anyways, there's a lot of special spiritual connections between the Dreamcast
and the original Xbox. I feel like a lot of the folks at Sega to bring on that content also to Xbox, and we were learning a lot from them. - How very strange, very strange. - [Ken] Oh, no, no, no, it's not strange. Did it just attach to the AirPlay? (upbeat music) - Oh, what, Ken? Ken, I've forgotten that was a thing! This is the same remote
they use on the Apple TV that works on the MacBook, dude! I'm curious, so we have a lot of apps such as Prime Video and Netflix, and oh, actually, YouTube. - iPad is better than a console at gaming. - No problem, okay, 30 bucks, I'm
gonna give that a thumbs up. (upbeat music) It works. Now, let's take a look at our Switch, which seems to be charged up enough. Okay, well, this is also
logged into someone's account. What is this, Jaden? Oh, no, sorry Jaden. Okay, it's a little
sticky, but you know what? That's not the worst
thing I've ever tried. Yeah, no, this is fine. I think, realistically, you could probably clean
that out a little bit and it would be just fine. Clearly, it's not even
like the Joycon drift. It's just literally like someone got this thing dirty at one point, didn't really clean it out. So, for context, if I wanted
to buy a full Switch setup with a working Joycon as well as a dock, it would cost about $250. Now, if I wanna just
get the dock by itself, we're looking at about $35. Now, you can get third
party docks for cheaper, but even with that dock, we're looking at, what,
just a little bit over $200 for a fully working Switch and a dock. And, realistically, if
you don't wanna use this as a docked console, if you just wanna use it as a Switch Lite, you're getting something
which is actually cheaper and has more capability. It's a little bit of a gamble. The stick is a little
bit on the sticky side, but I actually think this is
the best deal we've gotten. That's actually pretty solid. So, next, let's take a
look at the Xbox One. Now, at $100, I'm pretty confident that that's a better
deal than you would get, mostly, for an Xbox. So, we bought an Xbox One just like this at GameStop for $160. So, besides being a little bit scuffed up, which to be fair, most of
these original Xbox Ones are just because they have so
much glossy plastic on them, it seems to be in pretty good shape. The good thing is is that the disc drive does definitely work. I was able to install
the disc, no problem. The controller is actually
in pretty good shape. Dude, I feel pretty confident in saying that this Xbox is a good deal. It seems to work, no problem, and as far as everything
we've taken a look at so far, thumbs up. Next up, we have the iMac, which again, we got for just
a little bit under $100. Now, actually, since you were the one who used to use this iMac, do you want to take the lead on this one? - Sure, so as a surprise to no one, I was actually a bit of a
spoiled child growing up. - [Austin] No.
- But I grew, thank you. Yeah, this is giving me some flashbacks. I actually started my
channel with this computer about I think it was two weeks
before, wooh, that sound. I think I started my channel
like two weeks before you did. - [Austin] Wow, show off. - Well, I mean, one of us made it, and the other one's working
for the other one now, so. - [Austin] Oh, yeah,
that worked out for me. - Who is showing off now? (laughter) So, this guy is rocking a
two gigahertz Core 2 Duo, two gigs of ram, as well as
128 megabyte Radeon 2400 XT. Now, the main thing here
upon looking at eBay is that we didn't save money. We actually lost a little bit. Not exactly a terrible deal
considering the condition, and a lot of the sets that
you see on here for this price also don't include a mouse and keyboard. So, it's not too far off.
- [Austin] Okay, so we're within a few dollars
of what this is worth, but we're a little bit expensive. Do you feel old yet, or no? - A little bit, a little bit. - [Austin] Do you know what
you can do to feel even older? (upbeat music) - Right, we bought this, too, and we can actually, if I go into extras, play my favorite game of all time. - [Austin] Really? - It's not here. Whatever that game is with
the moving line on the bottom, the ball that bounces off the blocks. - [Austin] Oh, gosh, I
know what that's called. - It's that game.
- [Austin] Yeah, Breakout. - Sure. Oh, and if we're lucky, someone's
music's on here already. - [Austin] Oh. - Oh, it's Michael's
iPod, that's his name. - [Austin] Michael.
- That was our previous owner's name. Okay, so music, gonna
have to power, oh, okay. - [Austin] Oh, no.
- Okay, so the battery might be shot. Oh, it just shut off.
- [Austin] Oh, no. - That was enough to brick it
and put it in recovery mode. - [Austin] Oh, no.
- So, we cannot listen to Michael's music anymore.
- [Austin] (laughs) Oh, no. - You can get some of them on eBay for around the same price. A lot of 'em are in poor
grade like this one. The main thing is that you can actually get them refurbished. Oh, yeah, it's by a third party, but it's $240. - [Austin] So, theoretically,
if the battery is okay. This is not a bad deal.
- Yeah, no, in theory it's not a bad deal. I think it could be better, but $100, you know,
and maybe a DIY project to have fun with on the weekends. I think that's okay. - So, did we make the right
decision in buying a lot of very expensive
electronics from pawn shops? Generally, yes. So, the MacBook is a okay deal. It wasn't particularly good,
but the important thing was is that we were able to get it and it works pretty much just fine. PlayStation, I'm actually pretty proud of. While the price wasn't anything special, the condition is actually
really impressive. Now, on the Apple TV front, I think it's fine, I think a
lot of people would prefer this over something like the Chromecast, and the important thing here
is that we actually got it for slightly less than
what we would normally pay. The Switch is an interesting one. While it does have some slight damage, I think that's well worth the
$60 that we saved in buying it and especially if you
don't care about the dock or you wanna pick it up
for cheap, pretty solid. Xbox, two thumbs up, $100
is really hard to argue with considering just how much
of a console you're getting, Blu-Ray player, all that kind of stuff. And that leaves us with the
old school Apple products. iMac, this one was a little expensive. I'll completely admit it, we probably paid $20 too much for it. However, with the iPod, it's tough because the iPod itself
was actually a good deal, but the issue is is that the
battery is still functioning but it's really low. So, if we don't mind spending a few bucks and replacing the battery, this is actually a really solid deal. Without it, it's a little
bit tough to go for. But that, my friends, is a
look at some of the items we got from pawn shops. Let us know in the comments below if you wanna see another video like this. Definitely be sure to subscribe to see more tech hijinks and shenanigans. And until next time, Ken is gonna be switching
over to the iMac, and I'll be playing Gran Turismo 2. (placid music)