- This video is sponsored by Acronis. Well, well, well, we meet again, Sendico, AKA, my favorite spot to order
weird Japanese mystery tech. So the last couple times
we've gone in Sendico, we found absolutely insane items that I've never seen
before, direct from Japan. So today we're taking up a notch. I'm going to the, (crickets chirping) no, I'm with (indistinct) ah, I'm ascending Mount Fuji today to find the greatest tech
that Japan has ever made. Yeah, you heard me right. All the good Japanese tech
is on top of Mount Fuji, and you have to climb it. - (beep) This isn't working. - Let's just go through video games. Let's see what they've got. Let's start out with
Game Boy, safe, easy bet. I need some Game Boy action. Oh, Game Boy Printer, that's pretty cool. Oh, that's cool. Okay, you know, maybe I need this. It's a box copy of "Pokemon Emerald." That's just really neat. Does it come with everything? Oh, it does, it comes with a
little, the wireless thing. Oh, I want that for sure. What is this? A PCE PC Engine, but it's a handheld. What! Working item, overhauled, all electrolytic capacitors
replaced, contacts and internal cleaning completed. Oh because of the low audio
output of the right channel, we will be listing as defective. Are you trying to tell me that they have replaced capacitors, cleaned contacts, cleaned everything. But because one speaker's a little quiet, it's sold as junk, basically. Man, I love Japan. If this is GameStop, they'd be like, "Oh yeah, we just spit on it and toss in a box, congratulations." I don't think GameStop
actually spit on things, but sometimes it feels
like they probably should. Look at this! And they say it's for parts, but it's a whole Windows 95 PC in here. I told myself after the
last time we did Sendico, I was gonna go easy this time. I lied to myself 'cause
I want all these things. So then my friends, I will
see you on the other side once our very large, very heavy package from Sendico has arrived. And so we have our items from Sendico. Now, much like last time,
the shipping was expensive. These boxes all combined
were something like, it was well over 100 pounds. I wanna say it was something
like 80 or 90 kilos. Like it is massive. There's some very big, heavy,
expensive items in here. And initially when I went to
go check out with the parcel, Sendico quoted me $780 for
this to be shipped via DHL. Thankfully, much like last time, they then gave me a cheaper option. After the fact, they emailed me, saying, "Hey, we can actually ship this to you via FedEx for like $340," which is still expensive. Considering that this is over 100 pounds of packages shipped in
three days from Japan. It's not bad. Let's begin with the small box. Oh, oh, no, dang, I accidentally ordered
"Pokemon" cards again, ah!, So, I'll just put this
over here and just... (transition whooshing) Next up, we have something
that I'm quite excited for. So this is a Game & Watch. Now if you're not familiar, Game & Watch was sort of the
first Nintendo gaming device. That's kinda debatable because Nintendo made like, playing cards and games and stuff. But this is one of their
first electronic games. (upbeat electronic music) ♪ Game watch, game watch, game watch ♪ - Whoa, so if this looks kinda familiar, like Game Boy Micro or
the bottom part of the DS, that's because they took heavy inspiration for this in later Nintendo handhelds. But this was before the NES, this is before the Game Boy. This is a much more
rudimentary style of console because it uses actual, like,
little, like, LCD elements, but it's not an actual, like, screen in the traditional sense. Every single element that could
be on screen is programmed. So it just turns it on and off. But this specifically
is the Popeye variant, which was on the expensive side. I do know that, we paid like
50 bucks for this thing. (Alex laughs) - 50. - [Alex] So what we paid
for it was almost 14,000 yen, which roughly equates to $93. - Did I mention that this
is a great time to subscribe to the Austin Evans YouTube channel. We spend lots of money on cool
tech, so you don't have to. Now that we have acquired
some LR43 batteries, let us try our Popeye Game & Watch. Oh, well, it immediately
works, I'll tell you that. - [Alex] Yay. - Oh, oh, we're playing, okay. Oh no, the left button doesn't work! Look, yeah, I try to push
right, he always goes left. So I think what the problem here is, is that, while it is in good
condition, generally speaking, I think that this button is just broken. So it's always pressing the
left button, that's my hope. 'cause otherwise it's like broken, broken. A huge thank you to the
sponsor of this video, Acronis, Acronis Cyber Protect Home Office is still one of the best data backup and cyber protection personal
solutions on the market. But now with identity protection, cyber criminals are getting smarter and even using AI to
enhance their attacks. In 2022, over $10 billion has been stolen through identity theft. Think it won't happen to you, you're vulnerable even
when ordering food online, shopping or booking a flight. Thieves can use your personal
data to open new accounts, take over existing ones, falsified taxes, and commit insurance
fraud all in your name. Don't let that happen to you. Acronis provides real-time monitoring and alerts for identity theft attempts. But just in case anything does happen, Acronis's certified experts are available to help you restore your losses
and identity 24 hours a day, seven days a week, with
up to a million dollars in identity fraud insurance. So if you need award-winning,
backup software, malware protection,
and now identity theft, all in one, easy-to-use
dashboard, Acronis has your back. Just use code AUSTINEVANS2023
for a 40% discount, which can be used for
all Home Office products. And thank you very much to Acronis for sponsoring this video. Next up we have this. This is the Fujitsu FM notebook. Now you might look at this and think, "It looks
ancient, old and thick." But concerning that this
is from the late '80s, it actually is, in my
opinion, pretty sleek. Now the problem here is that
it came as is, untested. And as we've tried to look this up, there, surprise, surprise,
is no information about this, like, anywhere. So not only do I need to figure out how I'm going to power it, I have no idea what kind
of operating system it has. It does say HDD here. So it's got obviously a floppy disc drive, but also it says hard drive. So I'm assuming it may actually
have a hard drive inside. I can hope that it's
running some version of DOS, but I know literally nothing about it besides, it's in really,
really good condition. How much was our FM R-50 NBX? (gentle music) - [Alex] It was pretty reasonable for basically a museum piece. It was 7,980 yen, which
is roughly about $54. - For 54 bucks, I'm
happy to take the gamble that we can find some way of
getting this up and running. So the first thing I wanna do is just see if I can get it to power. So we have a couple of like
little generic adapters. But the problem is that, this is quite specific
on what it's looking for. It's like 14, sorry, 13.5 volts. So I'm gonna try to see, I have
an actual switching adapter, my Shnitpwr professional power supply, which will actually allow
me to adjust the voltage to precisely what the system needs. Theoretically, when I plug
this in, some of these lights, the DC in light and
battery light will turn on. So here goes nothing. (energetic upbeat music) Hmm, oh wait, hang on. There's a main switch
over there on the side. Maybe that turns on the power. (energetic upbeat music continues) Oh, yes, yes!
- [Alex] Woo! - So it is on, right? Hang on, so, it is a very
clearly not good screen. So you can see I've got a
wheel to adjust my contrast. So power and DC are in, it's not charging the
battery, but that's fine. And I've got a little bit
of text on the bottom. Unfortunately, that little bit of text doesn't look like it's,
"Hey, I'm booting right now." It looks like an error message. Hey, what does it say? "Please set up the system." Ah, I was afraid of this, okay. Physically, it seems like
it's in terrific shape and clearly, it functions, now
we have some power for it. But until we're able to track down some 35-year-old Japanese floppy disks, I think it's gonna be nothing more than a beautiful set piece. This is something I'm very excited about. The PC Engine is so damn cool. How much did I pay for my
super duper cool PC Engine? - [Alex] 15,000 yen or roughly $102. (upbeat music) - I mean, that's a fair bit of money, but this thing I think is really cool. One thing I don't understand
is how you disconnect this. So that's the power for it. Oh, oh, I got it, I got it! - [Alex] Hey. - That's so cool! Also, you can see how yellow it is 'cause it used to be this color, now it's this color! So essentially it is a CD player and a CD ROM drive. And then when you're ready,
you just load it up here and attach it in. Dude, this is worth every penny. Honestly, this is why I do these videos! How cool is this? Okay, so I'm gonna go
explore this PC Engine. We're gonna start out by trying to use the
actual base console itself. So I'm gonna take our game, (energetic upbeat music) load it in here, and then, if I power it on,
theoretically, this will work. (energetic upbeat music continues) Oh, okay, well that is a signal. I am pretty confident there's a way that we could make this work. Let's though go with the safe bet of loading it into our interface unit and then we'll try the CD. So this little lock, so this is the little piece of plastic that holds everything in. It is also a power switch
for the entire unit. So, you see. So basically you flip the little lock up to keep everything into place
and you slide it to the side and it turns the power on. - Hey!
(group cheers) So now I get to experience
"F1 Circus World Championship" with the full glory of an
actual RGB television and music. Dude, look how clean these graphics are. I think this is clearly meant
to be somewhat more realistic than the normal kind of
very arcadey kind of races of the day. Okay, so we can establish that
this works really quite well. So, I've got not one, not two, but three. How many PS2s did I buy? - [Alex] You bought
a total of five PS2s. (Austin laughs) So you're still missing one. - Did I? - [Alex] Keep digging. - I wonder why my
shipping was so expensive and I bought five PS2s. All right, so with everything
unboxed and prepped, let me run you through what I've got here. So this is the larger lot. So just to recap, we've got
ourselves a Sega Saturn, PS1, two N64s, Super Famicom,
a Famicom in the box, and three PS2s. How much did I pay for
these in US dollars, please? (Alex laughs) 'Cause I remember the yen
and it was a lot of yen. - [Alex] So it wasn't exactly cheap, but I mean, I think it's still
pretty reasonable at $177. - For one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, consoles? That's like 20 bucks a console, not even. Now, this was a much more reasonable lot. Two PS2s, a Wii, all the various peripherals
and accessories and stuff. I think, I paid like 20 bucks
or something for this, right? - [Alex] Yeah, it was very
cheap at $16 for those three. - I'll be honest, that's cheap enough. I would pay five bucks just for
these to have them for parts or just to display them
on a shelf or something. But it would be nice if
they actually function. So now it is time to test
some of the lot of consoles. Starting out with our very many PS2s. Load it up. (gentle upbeat music) Disk drive doesn't sound great, I will admit it does not sound great. Oh, hey, okay, we got it. I've never seen this game before. (car engine revving) (upbeat electronic music) - [Joanna] Aw, that's fun. (tires screeching) - All right, you know what, I think it's safe to say this PS2 works. So we'll put this in the
good and functioning pile. Let's grab our next one. (transition whooshing) Okay, so this is our unique PS2, which has the PC card slot. (gentle upbeat music) Good noise. That one sounds much less
grindy than the gray one. (gentle upbeat music continues) Oh, the disc drive does
not work and no video out. Okay, so this goes in the pile of shame. Next, PlayStation 2 number three! (gentle upbeat music continues) (disk drive whirring) - [Alex] Ooh. - Don't like that noise. That was a...
(electronic music) That's a good noise. The disc drivy noise was not a good noise. The problem is that with
a lot of older disc... (electronic music) - [Alex] You okay there, champ? - No, I need a minute. It does seem like this
drive is functional, but probably on its last legs. All right, let's move on to our next PS2. Oh, (laughs) disk drive is stuck. You see, it's trying to move a little bit, but it doesn't open. So I guess you could say that
we've got a 50-50 success rate on our functional PS2s
and our broken PS2s. So let's take a look at our Japanese N64s. I don't know what kind of N64 this is. It is a unique colorway because you can see it's
still clear on the bottom. Maybe slightly yellowed over the years, or maybe this is just the way it looked. But I will say this looks, I mean, besides that little thing that sounded like it just
rattling around on the inside, incredibly clean. This is gonna be a special occasion for me 'cause I'm gonna play a game that I have never been able to play. When I was growing up, I
did have the good fortune of owning an N64, and I owned "Pokemon Stadium" for the N64. So if you bought "Pokemon
Stadium" from Japan, this was a completely
different game than the one that we got here in the US. So let's try "Pokemon," (clears throat) "Pocket Monsters Stadium," the alpha version on our
N64s and see if this works. (transition whooshing)
(gentle music) (group cheers)
- Hey, let's go! Oh, this is so different. Okay, all right, before
we get too into this, actually, let's go ahead
and shut this down. Let me swap everything
over to our ice blue N64 and see if this one works. (gentle upbeat music) - [Group] Go beyond! - So both N64s work. Now let me finally play
"Pocket Monster Stadium Zero." Okay, now let me see if I can figure out what the name of these moves are. Land it. Land it. Boy! (electronic music) Let's go! No, it's Dream Eater! No, no, no!
(Alex laughs) My complete lack of Japanese
knowledge has ruined me! I've been waiting to
play this game for years. And the fact that that's the way it ends is deeply, deeply disappointing. But my N64s work, so, (fanfare music) boy, that was not good. All right, so now we have the Sega Saturn. Now a Japanese Saturn I don't
think is wildly different than the one we had here. It's definitely a different colorway and I think these, are
these buttons different? I think they might be. All right, everyone ready? (gentle upbeat music) Yey, it's 1994 again! Finally! I've been waiting 30 years. (Alex laughs) Oh, that's 30 years ago. - [Alex] Self burn. - Wow. Wow. All right, now, if you've
never played "Daytona USA," I do know that the Japanese
version has different music than the English version, and I think the Japanese music is better. (intense rock music) Sorry, I just got into it. Let's play, okay. Can I just say, look how
damn sharp that picture is. We're just going out
straight through RCA directly into the TV. That looks like really good, wow. And well, (car engine revving) so "Daytona USA" originally
shipped in arcades, and the Saturn was, I think the first time it left the arcade, was actually available at home. Dude, this is so sick for like '94-'95. This is so sick. Last lap! Come on! Help me, Tom Cruise. Help me, Oprah Winfrey. Woo, drifting, I'm drifting, I'm drifting, oh, in a wall. Oh no, oh, no, that's bad. If you ain't first, you're eighth. (upbeat music) ♪ Daytona ♪ - [Announcer] Congratulations!
You played well. - Oh, well, they just cut me off. All right, I guess the Saturn works. All right, so now let us try our, Wii. Because it was so cheap, I'm
gonna assume it doesn't work. And it is also in truly rough shape. But well, here goes nothing. I'm not getting a signal, which is not filling me with confidence. - Oh.
- [Joanna] What? - Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. - [Joanna] What? - I fixed it! - [Alex] Did you just jiggle it? - I jiggled the cable.
- [Alex] Alright. - The Wii remote does not
work, but the Wii does. So I guess, we need to go
find our own Wii remote. Is that a copy of "Smash?" Wait, wait. (gasps) There's a copy of "Brawl" in here. That's my favorite Wii game! This is great! (gentle upbeat music) Let's go! (transition whooshing) (electronic upbeat music) - [Joanna] Is that Yoshi? (Austin vocalizing) (singer vocalizing)
(lively upbeat music) - So I have, of course,
the blue Game & Watch, the better version of Game & Watch. (electronic music) - [Announcer] Three, two, one, time up! - Now, were they level three CPUs? Yes. Yes they were. But did my incredibly cheap Japanese Wii that accidentally came with
a copy of "Brawl" completely and totally dominate? You're damn straight. Next, let us try our Super Famicom. This one is quite dirty,
but I think it may work. So we do have a copy of "Donkey Kong 2," which we'll load up here. (gentle upbeat music) Here's the problem with that. I put force on it, it didn't go in. I put a little bit of
force and it snapped in. (gentle upbeat music continues) Okay, now it went in correctly. All right, look. No. (grunts) (gentle upbeat music continues) Oh, so you can see that
something's coming through the TV, 'cause when I hit like the
reset button and whatnot, the screen flickers, we're actually not getting
any video signal out. We gotta keep in mind that this, along with a lot of the
other consoles today, are coming from junk
lots, that are untested. And considering how
cheap these things were is totally worth the gamble. And maybe it's fixable. And I got a bunch of Famicom controllers, I mean, sorry, Super Famicom controllers. And that is what I'm gonna say
to make myself feel better. Let's move on, shall we? To the big chungus. (upbeat music) And that's it, 'cause I'm not gonna tell
you until episode two, subscribe to the channel suckers. That was all a gag. It was a
ploy. It was a clever ruse. So you would think this
is the end of the video, but it's not, there's one more video and of course, huge thank you to Acronis for sponsoring today's video. (upbeat music continues)