So this one I want to go back to when I was 
a student, I was in high school, and a friend   of mine who knew I was kind of a math 
person came up and he's like, hey Grant   do you get like money if you can find really big 
prime numbers? Like I don't know maybe. He's like,   because I think I found a way that you can get uh 
uh any any arbitrarily big prime number that you   want. His name was Patrick Paterson; this is the 
Patrick Paterson patented method for generating   bigger primes. Uh do you want to give me your 
favorite prime number? It could be a small one.  (Brady: I would go 17.)
- All right so we'll take 17 and the method 
is we're going to write this in base 4. So in base 4 you have the 1 spot, you've 
got the 4 spot and you've got the 16 spot. And   it could go on with other powers of 4 - 64. But 
in this case 16 is big enough because we would   write this as 1 - 16 - and then you don't need to add 
any 4s and then there's a single 1 in there.  This is what that number looks like in base 
4 and his observation was, hey if you read   this as if it's base 10, and you ignore the fact 
that it's writing the number in base 4, 101 is   also a prime in base 10. And you say, well that's 
just one prime let's try it with a different one,  do you have another favorite prime number?
- (3) 
- So 3 is pretty simple, um 3 is just also   3 in base 4. The next one, you know, a little 
bit less obvious, 5; and 1 is also prime in base 10. (Awesome)
- And this keeps going actually, 
so if you try it with 7, you get 13. If we   try this with 11 that's also prime; and this was 
the pattern and he notices that no matter what   prime number he seemed to plug in you always 
seem to get out another prime number. And, you   know, it follows for these first few seems like a 
natural enough rule, therefore it goes on forever. (You have to know prime numbers to make prime numbers though)
- Well but you can see how the scheme goes, you just start   with 1 and I have to- for example maybe we do this-
- (Oh yeh, 101, the one we spat out there) 
- Yeah actually   let's try that, let's try that, let's try that. 
There's going to be a single 64, so then how many   do we need in the 16s place? Two of them in there 
to get 32 and then this leaves us with one 4   and one 1. Now I don't know off the top of my 
head if 1211 is prime - tragically, sorry to say,   for Patrick uh this one is not actually prime. This 
is 7 times 173. And so, you know, this is this   is before it was very common for you know kids in 
school to be programming things certainly so he   probably didn't check that far. But what is true, 
what I can tell you, is not a coincidence that we   see a 7 in here and if you just go through 
with your normal pattern and you try this with   all of the primes you can - so all of the primes 
up to that point the rule works pretty well. So   you know, very sad, the pattern breaks, this is not 
going to be the scheme to just plug in new ones   and constantly get bigger ones. But it's kind of 
interesting to ask why why did it seem to work for   so long? And in this case it's not actually that 
hard to see why it's decently reasonable that   this would be happening for the small numbers and 
then break down for larger ones. First of all if   it's even in base 10 it's also even in base 4;
and this is because 4 is also an even number so   any number in base 4 that's even it's going to 
end with a 0 or it's going to end with a 2.   And what that means is if it's not even in base 
10 there's definitely not even in base 4. If 2   did not go into your original number, 2 also does 
not divide the bigger one. Slightly less obvious is   that the same thing happens for 3 where- a 
lot of people might know a divisibility trick   for 3. You have some large number like 9732. Someone goes   and they asks you, hey is this number divisible 
by 3? The trick is to say, if you add up all of   those digits 9 plus 7 plus 3 plus 2 
and you ask if that's numbers divisible by 3 -   that's 21, 21 is divisible by 3 so we'd say yes 
this one actually 3 does divide that number.   And the reason this works is basically because the 
number 10, the base that we're using, is one above a   multiple of 3. And the idea there is that if we 
expand out what this whole number actually means   we're saying we take 9 times 10 to the power 
3, plus 7 times 10 squared - all very elementary,  sort of literally elementary, it's what we learned 
in elementary school. But let's say we want to say   reduce this mod 3; which is a way of saying 
what is the remainder that this number will   leave when we divide it by the number 3? The 
way that you can think about this is that when   you reduce things mod 3, or you ask about this 
kind of remainder operation, a very nice fact is   that operations like multiplication and addition 
play nicely with reduction. And what I mean by that   is if I take something like a plus b and then ask 
for- what is that when we reduce mod 3? What is the   remainder when you divide by 3? That's going 
to be the same as if I take a mod 3 and I add it   to whatever b mod 3 is. I can kind of reduce them 
before I do the actual addition operation. If you   take two very large numbers, like I've got 90 plus 
73, and I want to know uh what's the remainder when   I divide by 3, I can just take the remainder 
beforehand on each one of them. 90 it's going to be   0, 73 it's going to be 1. So I don't actually have 
to add the numbers in order to know the reduction   of their sum. Same deal with products, you know if 
I multiply the two numbers doesn't matter if I   do it before or after. When you're thinking of the 
expansion of a big number like this, 10- because 10   is just 1 mod 3 we can think of the expansion by 
saying this is the same as saying 9 times 1 to the   power 3, plus 7 times 1 to the power 2, and 3 
times 1 to the power 1 and 2. The reason we can   just add the digits is because the thing each one 
gets multiplied in the expansion, as far as you   know the universe mod 3 is concerned, all of those 
are the same thing as 1. And of course the point   here is, the same would work with 4 if you're 
doing it in base 4. And what that means is if   you're given a number that's not divisible by 3 
in base 10, and then you write it in base 4, this   rule with the digits and whether the digits add up 
to a multiple of 3 or not, that's also going to   hold. And slightly more subtle is also if it's not 
divisible by 5 uh once you reduce the base 4; if the original number wasn't divisible 
by 5 the new one you see interpreted in base   10 won't be. But that- it's a little bit more subtle,
in this case it's a it's a nice coincidence of two   facts, one that 10 is divisible by 5 so- you know, 
a number is going to be divisible by 5 only   if you end in a 0 or a 5. It's one of the 
first things we know about divisibility if we   learn about it as elementary schoolers. But then 
in base 4 there is no 5. So the last digit   could never be a 5; and if the last digit is a 0 it must have been even. So assuming it wasn't   even, there's nothing that you can write in base 
4 that would be divisible by 5. And so the   first prime number that's even available to divide 
one of these expressions that we get by starting   with a prime and writing in base 4 would be 
7. So in some sense all of these numbers are   immune to divisibility by 2, 3 and 5 which 
actually rules out quite a bit, but they don't have   that same immunity from 7 or 13 or 11 and all of the next ones.
- (So using the Paterson technique)  (you are never going to spit out a 
number in base 10 that has 2, 3 or 5 as) (one of its prime factors ever in history?) 
- Exactly yeah. And for for small numbers that   accounts for most of the possibilities for what 
could be dividing it. In fact up until you get to   49 that's enough to guarantee that you're prime, 
because 49 is the first composite number where   its divisors are all strictly above 5. And 
after that it's just sort of a random toss-up   whether or not you hit divisors or not. So 59 you 
happen to hit it, 101 very sadly you happen to get   it. Maybe we could have gotten a string that was 
a little bit longer. You know, we can kind of see   it here; like you start with 5 you get out 11, 
and if you start 11 you get out 23, if you start   with 23, 113 like looks pretty prime as far as 
I'm concerned. So if you're, you know, if you're   a school kid and you're just messing around 
you might think this is plenty true enough.   (What should someone watching this video take from this?)
- That's the right kind of question to ask. I mean   this is this is all loosely related to something 
Richard Guy described as the Strong Law of Small   Numbers. I'm going to paraphrase but small numbers 
can't support the weight that we give them with   all the patterns that they have to hold, and you're 
just going to run into these kinds of coincidences.  I can show you another one if you want that is in a similar vein.
- (You know I'm going to say yes!)   All right.
- (I'll get you another piece of paper.)
- Okay we'll get another one. So yes this is to be continued and see the links 
in the video description for details of the next   video in this interview. Also check out Grant's 
channel, 3Blue1Brown, for a whole other   video he's just released about false patterns. 
In the meantime on screen as you can probably   see are the first 1000 prime numbers in base 
10 converted to base 4 and then checked for   Paterson primality. No 2s, 3s or 5s in 
those prime factors, just like Grant promised. As you can see things start 
strongly but then start tailing off. In   fact only 388 of the first 1000 prime 
numbers past Patrick's test. Check out all the usual 
links for more videos and information and   of course make sure you're up to date with 
Grant's channel, that's 3Blue1Brown,  always amazing stuff to be seen there.