- Big thanks to Adobe Premiere Pro for sponsoring a portion of this video. Today, we are building the
ultimate Pokemon Gaming PC. Now, you'll probably notice
that recently I've gotten more than just a little into Pokemon cards. As part of that, I've become
friends with Leonhart, one of the absolute OGs of Pokemon cards, and honestly just a side note, one of the nicest guys
I've ever met in my life. So today we're building
him a brand new gaming PC that not only looks the part, but that can game, stream, and edit. So what do you want
this thing to look like? Do you care about what size it is? Are there any special features? Anything that comes to mind that you wanna go for, for
the aesthetic of the system? - What if like grasp maybe the colors on the inside could be like red, green, and blue. Just kind of like the
original Game Boy games. - [Austin] Oh. - Maybe make a little play on nostalgia. - What if we even take a step further? What if we actually put
some kind of little like pool with like a Squirtle jumping in and we have a volcano, or we have like a little grassy section, something like that. - Do you have like a desk
space, or something in mind? Just so I can get a little bit of an idea of the scale if we're gonna go for a smaller chasse, or a bigger chasse? - [Leonhart] Right here is my current one. - Okay. - [Leonhart] It's
collecting dust down there. (Austin chuckling) I'm about to do a full-on clean, so, - Nice. - It's just an IKEA desk. - Okay, cool. Let me start tracking some stuff down. Keep making the videos. Keep making me waste way too much money on eBay every day. (laughing) - Yeah, sorry. Sorry, Sorry let's piece
for all that's out there. Let's see who pulls my Leon cards (Austin chuckling) Right? - I'm pretty sure you're gonna open a hundred more packs than I will, but I'll give it my best shot. (laughing) - I pulled again, so it's still fair game. - So, for the ultimate Pokemon YouTuber, we need the ultimate Pokemon build. So, first of all, while we're gonna make this look as cool as possible, it needs to perform well. And there are a few main
things we need to do with the system. It needs to be able to game, it needs to be able to video edit, and it also needs to be able to stream. Which is why we're starting out with the Ryzen 7 5800X. Brand new Ryzen chip, eight cores, and importantly, not only will it be great for the editing side, but it also will be great for streaming. On top of that, we're gonna be pairing it with the RTX 3080. Again, when you talk about streaming, having that invent coding is nice, and this will easily be able to play any game that
Leon wants to throw at it. Now, to actually make
this all streaming ready, we have a couple of Elgato products. So we have Elgato 4K60 pro which you can route not only
camera and if he wants but also this is really
meant for connecting like a PS5 or an Xbox or something too. And we have a Cam Link 4K, so now it's just all capable of 4K streaming. But importantly, this will also work again for any kind of camera
he wants to route in. - Okay. So here we have the case that we gonna be building
everything inside of. This is an O11 Dynamic from Lian Li - From Lian Li which is a killer case. Well, the nicest things
about it, it's super modular. But the thing is for this system we can make it perform great, right? We have all the components, but really how we're gonna have to sell this
is by making it look cool. Right? Ken, I've never seen this before. This is a red Nendoroid. - Yes. - Okay. Wait, wait, show me this. Show me this. - So actually used to
collect animate figures a lot and a lot from the series in particular the Nendoroid series
from Good Smile Company. This is in particular Trainer Red. And the reason why I bought this for us is because it actually
comes with little versions of the starters to go
alongside Trainer Red. - How much was this? - So this has been long out of retail but some places are obviously
still selling it from stock. - Yeah. - This cost us, I think around $120 - Ooh! - which is like double of retail. - I got to see, I got to see the Squirtle. Dude, I mean look Squirtle's
my, Squirtle's my guy. - I'ma pick my favorite one though. - Charmander the Wrong Starter? Huh, that's okay. Bulbasaur deserves to be
on the ground by himself. Don't at me. - that's rude. - I want to water gun you right now. - It's in the handbook somewhere. I don't think that's a lab. - Well, so one of my big questions here and something we should
really sort out right now, how much space are we gonna have? 'Cause we still need to
fit a full 360 mm radiator graphics card, and everything like that. Why don't we actually
get the motherboard out? And kind of roughly figure out where everything is gonna live, because I think we may have
less space than we hoped for. But think about it. If we're building like a whole forest and a lake and a volcano, I mean, cause we're gonna need at least a couple inches
of verticality, right? So we have our Crosshair Hero, which will obviously do the job. So we're gonna load up
our Ryzen 7, the RAM, everything else later. (upbeat music playing) - So with that, we should
have our board in place. So you can see how much
we're gonna have above, which will make sense because
we do have a 360 mm radiator that we are gonna be installing
at the top of the case. But beyond that, the
actual bottom of the case, I mean, we're gonna have some space but it's not gonna be like massive. So, okay. So this is what's gonna look
like with the graphics card. Oh crap, okay? And then, - This is crazy. - That's fine. - You sure you don't wanna
put a screw in there? - That's fine. - You sure? - Fine, Wes. I will put a screw in
so it doesn't break off or something silly. - I literally heard a creaking. - And then if I drop a
little 4K 60 in here. - So how much space are
we working with here? - Oh, that's fine. No, it's fine. - Yeah, I know, you can
almost see it, right? We could actually do a little depth trick where when it rolls back, we
can do a little hill up here and then just roll it immediately down. So, it looks like it has some depth to it but you actually have a
lot of space back there. - So I think all the space
we're really gonna need is just maybe like an inch or so, just so we can bring cables up. - Okay. - And then I would say let's make it where when the diorama is in the
board could still come out will be my main question. Or if there's a way to remove
the diorama in any way, basically I wanna make sure that this is not locked
in it for all the time. If anything goes wrong, if we need to do
troubleshooting or something - Sure, you just put magnets on the back of the board and just
slapped it onto the case. - You know what's great with computers? Magnets, never causes any problems. - [Ken] We have SSDs. So while Ken and I are going
to start prepping the system so we're going to do our test fits and we're going to start running cables. We're gonna get all of
the components ready. Wes is going to grab some stuff like the side panels and
get them laser edged. And yet actually layering in all of the different diorama
components that he wants. So that at the end of the
build, we're both done. We can put the entire thing
together and hopefully it turns out to be truly the
ultimate Pokemon gaming PC. - This portion of the video is sponsored by Adobe Premiere Pro. The Premiere Pro was the very first pro video editor that I ever used eight years ago, nine years ago, and they've come a very,
very long way since then. Premiere Pro is used by
everyone from TV shows, to YouTubers, to TikTokers , and for good reason, it really
is the industry standard. Now do you have Lumetri color which is a great way of now adding light but of course you have that full capability to customize the color of
your videos however you like. You also have very powerful
audio editing tools. So I personally really like the fact that you have that sort
of AI one click ability to customize it, to have your voice to be
completely where you want it, including your levels which is much better than me doing it by myself and low key one of the best
features of the Premiere really is the integration with
Photoshop and After Effects. Between the three of those, that really is sort of
your Swiss army knife of tools that you need to
create content in 2021. So if you're looking to
up your video editing game definitely check out Adobe Premiere Pro at the link in the description and huge shout out to Adobe for sponsoring this portion of the video. They do a lot to support creators, but without any further ado, why don't we get back to
building ourselves a PC, shall we? So there are a few specific things that we're doing for this system. One of which is to use a pair of SSDs. Now, ideally I would have
used just a single 980 pro 'cause that really is my
favorite SSD at the moment. However, the issue is that they only make a one terabyte version, which is fine. I'm sure that Leon would be totally okay with one terabyte of
storage, but I wanted to give him a little bit more, which is why we're also going to be using an additional one terabyte PCI 4.0 SSD. So, as someone who is a YouTuber specifically as someone who
does a lot of video editing having really fast PCI storage is nice. And these 980 Pros cannot say
enough good things about them. They're incredibly fast it's like seven gigabytes per second reading speeds. And when it comes to working
with huge video files and tons of Pokemon cards spreadsheets, lots of I don't know, it's just
nice to have that storage. So we have 32 gigs of G Skull Trident and this is the Trident Z Neo and this should be more than enough. (cool music playing) Okay, we are ready for a test boot of the ultimate Pokemon gaming PC. So obviously all of our cabling
is completely temporary. We also don't have the final CPU. So because the board needs a bios update we just threw in a third
gen I think an Athlon. So when it comes to
building an AMD system especially with the latest
AMD 5000 series of Ryzen, you actually have to be
slightly careful because if the board is say a few months old and it doesn't have the correct BIOS you can put the chip in and
nothing will happen, right? So what I wanna do today is take an older chip
that I know should work, install it in the motherboard and make sure that the
BIOS is fully up to date and then we'll swap over
to the Ryzen processor. I mean I need to do this, but it's going to save me a whole lot of time in troubleshooting. If we put the entire system
together and nothing happens. Now, it just needs to post for us. Take in a minute to post. - The monitors on, right? - Yeah, it's stuck on 4D right now. - [Ken] So our BIOS code is reading 4D. So Austin's looking up what that even is, (Austin laughing) - So funny. - [Ken] What is it? - Looks like it's a memory issue. - [Ken] You wanna unseat
and reset the RAM? - Yeah, let's pull some memory out. All right, let's go for round two. - [Ken] 4D. - Doesn't like our memory. Something about the CPU, the board and the memory are
not communicating correctly. I can throw the Ryzen 7 in there like the actual processor to see. (upbeat music) - Oh, that looks much better. Yep, okay. - [Ken] There's a processor. - It was just a processor. Now let's see if the BIOS
actually is compatible 'cause if it's not up to
date it will not post. 'Cause it depends on how new the board is and this board has been, oh, okay it's fine. All right. Well, we did all that to
make sure that it works and it works right out of the box and I didn't have to bother with it. So now I'm going to update the BIOS, load up all of our RAM and we should essentially be good to go with the actual hardware of the system. Wes, how are you looking
over on this side? - It's going pretty good. I'm starting to figure out the
density for the water color. Just to have a nice sort of cartoony blue. - That looks very Squirtlely. - Yes, very Squirtlely. - It sounds, that sounds weird. So, what we're gonna do
is we're gonna underlay it with some of these and
then we're gonna apply a little bit of this
texture over top of the LEDs to get it to have a a ripple effect, so as we animate through, hopefully it kind of shines up and then and then we just sort of some
water motion effects in there. OK, I'm testing now. - Working with this set, I
realized that there's a lot of opportunity for
animation through lighting. Now we need to make, you know, somewhat of an elevated surface that is going to hold its shape. So it has to be durable
but at the same time, transparent in certain places. And after messing around with a bunch of different materials, honestly, plastic bowls just ended up working great. So, cutting them out for the little lava patches was awesome because I could put a
little diffusion on the top, a little on the bottom, maybe sandwich another layer in there then have a nice surface to paint that I could mesh in with the plaster. So you can see we're starting
to get the overall idea of how this is gonna come together. And I've just thrown together really quick and dirty lighting samples here. You can see the lava
over to the side here which will have Chamander, some cool flowing effects in there, and then that will be our
lake where we will have our Bulbasaur. I mean Squirtle. Now we just have to paint. I like paint. Very tired, but it feels good. But more importantly because
apparently college never dies, I'm drinking Monster again. It's gonna be a hell of a year. All right, we got something
fresh from the Laser Etcher. - Okay. - And they were engraved by laser. - Check that out. - Yo, that looks pretty cool. Oh dude. Especially when you
get some light on that. So this is the first
time that we've actually had glass etched side panels for a build. We've done stuff like vinyls and what not but this looks so, so sick. The thing is, I think
it gives a level of sort of customization to assist them
that you don't usually see. So the fact that we were able to get the Leonhart logos etched onto the glass, I personally think, takes this bill to an entirely different level. So one of the things we are doing just to keep everything even here is that we're going full
Corsair RGB across the board. So I went and picked up six LL 120s. not cheap. However, we wanna make sure
that everything is consistent that we can run everything through IQ. We don't have to deal with
multiple types of RGB. Cause we've done that
before and it's not fun. - [Ken] Corsair is the only ones that's allowed to make RGB program. - So the main reason that we
opted to go for the Kraken Z this is the model that has the LED screen. You can kind of see it right here. So this entire thing is a display so we can put whatever we want on it. Which will look a lot better than the the test heat sink we have on here. I'm just gonna take that off. I don't like looking at that. So we still need to install obviously the AIO, the fans, get some of the RGB strips
in, where is the diorama? How is the inside looking? Cause I know you're building
that all still separate, right? - So here's where we're at right now. (Austin laughing) Wes, Wes, this is so cool. Look at Charmander! - [Wes] There he is. - Oh, that is so cool. - So, there is test
animation going right now. So you can kind of see the
lava flowing underneath there. And right now that's
about half of the pour,. We're going to go up all the
way to about the edge here and this branch, which
comes around to kind of form the puddle is actually
what holds up the GPU. - [Austin] Oh, dude. This is legit. - So I've been a part of
a few custom builds now. And this one is the most similar to Grounded because of all
the miniatures and model work. But I like this one a
little better than that in a way because it gave me
restrictions to work within, I mean physical restrictions
were in the base of the computer case, more problem solving which
is always a fun part of the, of the process. - I really did not want Leonhart to see this system at all. I tried to keep myself from teasing it on Twitter and everything. 'Cause I really wanted to
see his genuine reaction. I really, really hope that he's surprised and he likes it and he
doesn't look at the system go. No. Is that like cool or something? He's nice. He probably like pretend to
like it even if he didn't. (Austin laughing) whenever you're ready, spin
around and take a look. - All right, man, I've been
waiting a long time for this and, oh my gosh! There is actually like a diorama going on in my computer right now. There's a Charmander, Bulbasaur, my boys Squirtle, you
even included in this? And then you got Red. There's even a GIF of
him running right now. Oh my gosh. I seriously am going like numb right now. It's like I pulled a first
edition base set Charizard. (Austin laughing) For me, this is what like
embodies Pokemon for me. It's the original starter Pokemon. And you somehow made a whole like "diorama" is if that's the word, got like the colors and oh
my, I didn't even see it. Oh my, you have my logo
etched in the sides of it. And it's in the Leonhart
in the front of it. Is this mine? - This is all yours, man. The ultimate Pokemon game PC for the ultimate Pokemon YouTuber. So you've got yourself,
you Ryzen 7 5800X, plenty for editing gaming, streaming, the whole deal and RTX 3080. You've got yourself tons of LED lighting and RGB lighting literally everywhere. But we also have a 4K
capture card built in and we have another one for the external. - This is exactly what I was looking for. This is just gonna
allow me to move forward as a content creator and just help like overall
my whole community, you know. And the Pokemon community
in general, you know. I can start doing hopefully
better content from here. - Dude, you've done so
much for the community. This is the least I could do to give back. I mean like you've changed the
whole game in such a big way. Hopefully this PC is
at least one small part of helping you kind of
push things forward. This has been one of my
favorite gaming PC builds we've ever done. I remember those early days where some of the builds I would do like hardly even worked and what not. I was like, trying my best to
make something that was cool. And we've come from that
to delivering something which my favorite YouTuber in
the world thinks is awesome. I mean, I'm not sure what
more you could ask for. It's a happy ending and
a great reason for you to Ringaling the Dingaling
bell, subscribe to the channel, and stay tuned for other
nefarious ideas like this. Maybe we'll build a
Digimon game PC next. Oh boy, 1999 called and
wants its ideas back.