ASML is a critical supplier of semiconductor 
lithography machinery for foundries like Intel and   TSMC. In my video discussing TSMC's $28 billion 
capital expenditure, I briefly discussed their   situation. Their CEO said in an earnings call that 
they can make 50 high-end EUV lithography machines   a year. That's it. Without those machines, 
the foundries cannot churn out more 5nm chips. So why not make more of these machines? 
ASML itself has thousands of suppliers   making parts that end up into its machines. 
Coordinating and integrating all of these parts   together into a single smooth-running 
machine is immensely challenging. In this brief video, we will continue our deep 
dive into ASML and look at how the company puts   together centi-million dollar lithography machines 
for multi-billion dollar semiconductor companies.   And how EUV makes it so much harder. You might want to watch my ASML explainer 
video first before starting on this one,   just in case you need a refresher. ASML is a global, sprawling company 
- befitting the nature of its work.   The factory is based in the 
Netherlands but there are   additional manufacturing and R&D sites 
located in Connecticut and California. Its products are more like airplanes than you 
might at first expect. In my video about COMAC,   I mentioned that Boeing and Airbus no longer 
make the majority of the parts that they put   together. Instead they have evolved into having 
a system integrator role where they select,   procure, and put together the outputs 
of different suppliers in their network. ASML is the same. Their lithography machines, 
like those of the TWINSCAN variety, are built   out of independent modules. Kind of 
like the Megazord in Power Rangers. 90% of the components that go into these modules 
are made by the 500-600 outside companies   within ASML's outsourced supplier network. These 
are extremely critical companies and differentiate   ASML's supplier network from its competitors 
Canon and Nikon, which tend to do things in-house. 300 of these suppliers are 
located in the Netherlands.   Another 100 are in other parts of Europe, 
mostly Germany. And the rest are largely   in the United States. Coordinating 
within this global network is critical. Just as TSMC leans heavily on ASML to provide 
training and advice on how to use their products,   ASML in turn leans heavily on its suppliers 
on how to best use their components.   For instance, their strategic alliance 
with German company Carl Zeiss AG. Zeiss is a specialist in precision optics and 
helps produce the lens - a very critical part. So why outsource? Isn’t that the reason 
why Boeing can’t make good stuff anymore?   Isn’t outsourcing a scourge of western capitalism? Well, ASML might from time to time purchase 
a supplier company to bring critical, unique   expertise in-house. For instance, the acquisition 
of Brion Technologies, a US firm specializing in   computational lithography, and Cymer, another 
US firm specializing in lasers. It happens. But for the most part, ASML wants to remain 
in a system integrator role and leave as   much of the actual manufacturing to its 
suppliers. There are a few reasons for this. First, ASML can get its module components without 
needing to learn how to be the best in the world   in making that specific part. A single lithography 
stepper can incorporate over 1,600 individual   components. 200 of those are not cheap to 
procure in terms of cost or production time. The company cannot focus on those components'   minutiae while at the same time 
maintaining a big picture view. Second, this allows ASML the flexibility to 
change and adapt themselves to changing technology   trends. If something happens and ASML has to 
radically change the way it creates its machines,   like as it did with EUV, then it has the 
flexibility to make that change - without having   to deal with the sunk cost of having invested 
resources to develop a now-defunct technology. Third, like with Boeing and Airbus, ASML wants 
the system integrator role because it puts them   at the capstone of the entire massive 
enterprise. The gateway that listens   to the customer requirements and has 
final say on which part goes where. This role allows for the most economic value. 
Indeed, ASML is often its suppliers’ single   most important customer. It might represent 50% 
or more of their revenues (though this is not   the preferred situation). Thus, ASML can exercise 
strong influence on their operations and planning. Many of these suppliers are too 
specialized to diversify away from ASML.   How many customers are out there for 
high-precision motors or a beam measuring unit? Okay, so now that we have a good 
idea of what the supplier network is,   let us look at how it works. At least, this 
is how it worked as of the past few years.   Might have changed a bit since then. This 
is the latest information that I have. It starts with the client. Intel, Samsung, 
or TSMC plan out their future customer and   product demand. They need to do this a year or 
more ahead of time, which can be challenging.   They inform ASML that they would like to 
purchase a machine to meet this demand   and when they would like 
this machine to be delivered. When making that order, the client chooses 
from over 30 client-specific options,   crafting the end product to meet their own 
needs. This means that no single machine   that ASML puts out is exactly the same 
as the other. It also explains why TSMC,   Intel and Samsung can get different 
results despite sharing the same supplier. Once ASML knows that it has an order, 
their Supply Chain Planning Department   makes a Master Production Schedule. This MPS 
clarifies when production for this specific,   individual machine starts and ends. 
It takes into account resource needs,   available workforce hours, component lead times, 
and of course, customer deadlines. After that,   the suppliers are notified and issued 
purchase orders to get working. As I explained earlier, each 
machine is made up of modules.   These modules are built independently in a process 
step referred to within the company as "ASSY". The   modules then are integrated together in a step 
called "FASY" (standing for "Final Assembly"). After FASY, the machine is tested to see 
whether or not it meets internal benchmarks.   Configurations may be made to help improve 
performance. This stage is called "Test". Once the machine is determined to have met 
ASML standards for performance and reliability,   the machine is disassembled and 
packed for delivery to the customer.   Over 80% of ASML's customers are located in 
Asia, so this often will be a long flight. Once it gets to its destination, 
ASML’s technicians work with the   foundry’s technicians to install the 
device into a fab clean room for use.   It is a harrowing, delicate process. If you 
want to know more about how foundries build   and set up such rooms, I recommend watching 
my video about TSMC’s fab construction work. ASML not only has to build and deliver the 
product, but they also are responsible for   its upkeep and service time. It is not like a 
refrigerator where they set it up and go home. ASML signs service contracts with its foundry 
customers after the sale with uptime KPIs.   Such arrangements are normal for large 
capital purchases between companies.   These service contracts can hold ASML financially 
liable for lost sales due to machine downtime. So the company offers 24/7 support coverage 
with trained technicians and staff.   These come out of their local technology 
development and training sites in Japan,   Korea, Taiwan, United States, and 16 
additional countries around the world. When things do break, it is critical that spare 
parts go out to customers ASAP. The company keeps   spare parts at local service warehouses. If a 
customer needs something that the local warehouse   does not have, then the central warehouse has 
to ship it over, with a target date of 14 days. Better than having fast turnaround on replacing 
broken parts is to have them not break in the   first place. To do this, ASML maintains 
rigid quality control standards on their   suppliers - a policy of "zero defects". Each 
part is closely inspected on the factory floor   and if anything can go wrong, then it is rejected. ASML's supply chain in action is a 
symphony of chaos and nervous tension.   Their planners have to account for parts being 
rejected on the factory floor due to defects,   possible disruptions, and transport issues. If a rejected or missing part is not all that 
important, then workers can find a workaround -   usually by replacing the item with a "dummy 
part" - and continue on schedule. But if the   part is mission-critical, then production can stop 
entirely and the whole module can be put at risk. It is totally understandable from the 
supplier's perspective that things can   go wrong. It happens. But ASML has to deliver 
a machine to its customers by the deadline.   And a foundry like TSMC does 
not want to have to go to Apple   and tell them their iPhone has to be 
delayed due to insufficient capacity. Furthermore, some of these parts - usually the 
lens and lasers - need a lot of lead time. Longer   than the actual lead time of the final product. 
A single lens can take up to 40 weeks to be made.   This means that some of the work needs to be 
started far in advance of actual customer orders.   So it is not like you can ring that up 
overnight even with all the money in the world. Ah yes. Money. I have not mentioned 
cost yet, but that matters too.   Part of the reason why it can cost $18 
billion to build a new leading edge fab   has to do with the rising costs of 
the latest lithography equipment.   EUV equipment can cost $150 million each, as much 
as a Boeing airplane. Individual components and   replacements for those machines often cost 
far in excess of a million dollars each. Oh, since we mentioned EUV ... Extreme Ultraviolet Lithography is the most 
advanced lithography technology available today.   Its commercialization with the TWINSCAN NXE series   is expected to be more cost-effective 
than other techniques for sub-10nm nodes. The technology has been around 
since the 1980s. I have done a   video about it earlier if you 
want to learn more about that.   I won't repeat myself recounting the long 
journey. So let’s get into some gritty details. EUV lithography requires a re-engineering of many 
traditional semiconductor fabbing principles.   I have heard it described as a revolutionary,   rather than evolutionary technique 
and I think that is about right.   ASML's entire supply chain has to be rejiggered 
from the bottom up to accommodate these changes. Let me give you just one example of this in 
action. A key challenge for EUV lithography   is how to make sure that you can etch 
enough wafers in a given amount of time   while avoiding substantial yield defects. 
But the EUV mirrors have relatively   low reflective-ness, less than 70%. So 
they need a very powerful light source. They achieve this by firing a 
CO2 laser at droplets of tin   in order to create clouds of 
plasma and ultraviolet light. Why droplets? Because they need to reduce 
the amount of tin debris from the plasma   so to prevent the contamination of the 
mirrors collecting and focusing the light. At first they experimented with a rotating 
cylinder, then they moved to a thin target tape,   and then a spray jet, and then a liquid filament, 
before finally settling on tiny droplets. The margin of error when it comes to the 
power source is really tight and this has   had consequences across the entire supply chain. 
It is common in older lithography methods to use   something called a pellicle, a polymer film 
just 1 micrometer wide, to prevent particles   from casting a "shadow" discrepancy that gets 
projected onto the etched wafers and ruins them. In the EUV world, however, even the super thin 
traditionally-used pellicles can absorb and weaken   the EUV light. So while ASML works to develop 
a suitable pellicle, earlier generations of   EUV machines all across the supply chain now have 
to adhere to ultra-strict cleanliness standards. A particle just 52 nm wide, the size of a small 
virus, can contaminate the EUV supply component.   Maintaining such cleanliness pushes the 
limits of what is technically possible.   New proprietary detectors were 
installed at all supplier premises.   Particle flushing steps had to be added 
throughout the whole build process. Such challenges are why EUV commercialization   was delayed for several decades even after 
proving the feasibility of the science in the 80s. Note. It has recently been announced that 
pellicles are now available for EUV machines.   So it is likely from now on that this cleaning 
won’t need to be a part of the workflow.   But before that, such cleanliness 
standards were enforced for a few years.   Having them now will improve 
wafer yields and cost. ASML's market leadership in this 
sector is defined in two ways. The first is in the technological superiority of 
its products. ASML products are twice as expensive   as competing products from Nikon or Canon, but 
perform much better than the competition. They   can print in more detail and at a higher rate. 
That’s what the customers want more than price. The second has to do with its very 
strong record of collaboration.   The company works closely with both 
its customers and its suppliers,   conducting between all of them to deliver 
a product as demanding as any airplane. This track record and constant 
process improvement helps to keep ASML   at the leading edge of the market, 
and Moore's Law humming along.