- Hey guys, this is Austin. Now is the time to build a gaming PC. 2019 has been a great year for gaming, however I think things
are about to get worse. Much worse. So beside me here I have two of budget builds from last year, one $300 system, as well as a $550 system. Today though, let me
show you exactly why now is such a good time to build a PC by replacing some of our 2018 builds for some stuff which is much, much better. Alright, so today I'm going
to be building two gaming PCs. Or, well, more specifically,
one and a half. So there won't be any fancy camera angles because I'm by myself. I miss Ken. So, with third gen Ryzen around, I mean, there's a huge amount of
value in the high end, but interestingly a lot
of that has actually trickled down to low end. Now, not necessarily
because you should buy a third gen Ryzen system at, you know, five, $600, but instead, it's pushed the last
generation of Ryzen way down. So, as you'll see in a second here, we're taking advantage
of second gen Ryzen 5, which is only $130 right now. Seriously, this is a six core processor, twelve threads, overclockable,
and it's 130 bucks. I mean, not that long
ago, you would've had to pay five, $600 easily to
get this kind of performance. Now, it's in my $500 budget build. Something that I think a lot
of people are overlooking is the fact that memory
prices, as well as things such as SSDs, graphics
cards, a lot of stuff has actually come down a lot since last year. If you're looking at
something like 16 gigs of RAM, it's nearly half the price that it was this time last year. SSDs have come even farther. So it feels like it was not that long ago that you were looking at three, four, $500 for a 120 gig SSD, whereas now, you could pick up one for $20. I've got a 240 gig BX
500 here which was $31. $31 for a 240 gig SSD. Like, what are you doing man? Like, it absolutely makes
so much sense right now. And then of course there are
the graphics to talk about. So this year we've seen
pretty major launches from both AMD as well as NVIDIA, but, what I really care about
is the actual budget side. So, this has actually really
driven a lot of prices down. So, take this RX 570 for example. Now this is a couple year old card. However, for only about $120, it is absolutely incredible
bang for the buck. In fact we did an entire
video rounding up budget GPUs, and this is my ultimate favorite. You just can't beat
this priced performance. Not only are memory prices
likely to go up soon because there is a huge oversupply on the market right now,
which is a big reason why we've seen such cheap prices, but, there's also the
looming threat of tariffs especially here in the U.S., which could very easily drive up
the price of pretty much everything on the table right now. I mean, yeah, sure, things
generally do get better over time, but they also
tend to get more expensive. And this is historically
an incredibly good time to build a gaming PC just
because so many components are so good and especially so cheap. (upbeat music) Alright, so the first
system is all prepped and ready to go. In fact, let me give you a
little bit of a closer look. So, the nice parts about this is that for just under $600, you're getting a lot of bang for the buck. You've got the six core Ryzen processor, 16 gigs of RAM, you've got
the 500 gig NVMe drive, we have our RX 570. Now at 570 bucks, this is
pretty much in the realm of what most people would consider a budget gaming PC,
however, we can go cheaper, and we most certainly will. So, one of our most
popular videos last year was on this, the $300 gaming build which was surprisingly
solid, especially given that small budget. However, today, well today, we can do it just a little bit better. Okay, so I have my systems done. It's been a couple days. However, we now have our new budget $300 build, as well as our $570 system. So, last time I built this one, you guys are fairly
familiar, but this one, this one's actually pretty cool. So, inside we're taking
advantage of Ryzen 3 2200G. It's a little bit older,
however, at only $80 for an unlocked quad core processor with pretty decent integrated graphics, this is a killer deal. So, this entire system
with eight gigs of RAM, we've got a 256 gig SSD around back. We've got a 430 watt power supply. Everything here is just under $300. I think last I checked,
it was like 285 on Amazon. Just don't mind the lack of IO shield. I lost it. Oh, so, while Ken was moving
this PC the other day, he dropped it, (clears throat) dropped it, and so now the front panel
is very slightly loose. - [Ken] Don't make something
that looks like a handle. - (laughs) That actually does come off a little too easy, doesn't it? Surprising exactly no one, the new systems are a lot faster. So it comes to CPU, while
the new budget build is a decent step up, it
is absolutely nothing compared to the new $570 system, which completely wipes the floor with all of these systems
thanks to Ryzen 5 2600. Now, even bigger of a jump is
going to the graphics side, where, yes, the budget build,
again, is a little bit faster, but because we now have the budget for a pretty decent dedicated graphics card, the budget boy, well,
it's budget no longer. Benchmarks are one thing, though, but the real test is how
do these PCs actually game? Well to start out with, we have CS:GO on the $300 system. - [Ken] Did you just hit it? - I did hit it. It's fine, don't worry about it. With maxed out settings at 1080p, we're at 45, 50 frames per second. So, I might want to turn the settings down just a little bit. This is very playable, though. Literally, just by turning
the anti-aliasing down a little bit, where it's
75, 80 frames per second, and we can easily, if I
just crank things down a little bit more, get up to
something like 100, 120 FPS. But, realistically, with a $300 system, 75 FPS is probably going to be just fine. To the surprise of exactly no one, what? What? Why can't I shoot? Are you serious right now? No, no! Well, I was gonna say
performance is better, except shooting at me was nice. (laughs) How'd they do that? Okay, so, after fixing
my control settings, this is a, well, it's a
much better experience. So, right now we're at
200 frames per second. And this is with fully maxed out, 1080p. We've got anti-aliasing
on, literally everything. This is a more expensive system, but considering that we're only paying about twice as much, you're
getting three, four times the graphics performance. We've got more RAM, we've
got literally everything. Oh, wait, why am I
playing with the keyboard? Okay, so, next we have Rocket League. I forgot to plug in a controller. I'll be right back. (laughing) I need a controller. I literally made it like
half a second into the video, I was like, "Oh, wait, no, this is bad." So, next we have Rocket League. Again, we're playing at 1080p, but this time we are
playing on quality settings. However, 60 frames per
second is not too bad. I mean, for a $300 system,
I am legitimately impressed. Okay, yeah, this is significantly better. We're literally capped
at 250 frames per second. And meanwhile, we're also
having the actual settings pretty much all the way set up to quality. Yeah, there's no contest here. I mean, it's a more powerful system, but when you jump up
to having that RX 570, it's not the most powerful
graphics card in the world, but you're still getting a
completely solid performance at 1080p, especially in more
esports titles like this. Next up, we have everyone's
favorite, Fortnite. Which, actually should be pretty playable, even on the $300 budget system. So, we do have to turn the
settings down a little bit here. So, right now I'm running
at 720p on medium. However, we're fairly
close to a 60 FPS lock. Well, frame rate's great. Not having a gun, not great. Yeah, this is totally playable, and in fact, I actually
could probably turn the resolution up just a little bit because right now I'm actually averaging around 75, 80 frames per second. Dude, this system is
totally solid for 1080. So, Fortnite, just immediately jumping in, we're in the 70 frame per second range, and this is with full
epic settings at 1080p. I knew we already went over the 570 in our budget GPU video,
but this is a lot of card for 1080p gaming. I mean, the fact that we're
able to get 60-ish FPS in pretty much anything we play, even with maxed out settings,
is a really nice feature. Oh, no, that's bad,
that's bad, that's bad. That's bad, that's bad, that's bad. I'm running, I'm running,
running, running, running. Nope, nope. Okay, all right. Well, that's unfortunate. Wait, wait. - [Ken] Go, go, go, go, go, go, go! Get him, get him! - [Austin] Okay, what? - [Ken] Oh, no. - [Austin] There was nothing there! He was just shooting me! - [Ken] No, I mean, yeah. - We at some point need just a montage of me sucking at Fortnite. No, why? Oh! Oh, no, no you don't, no you don't. I got shot in the back. Kind of speaks for itself, I guess. I really do think that now is
a great time to build a PC. So, if you look at the budget end at the $300 option, you're actually getting a pretty decent level of performance. So, you can play a lot of games, at least reasonably well, and importantly, it is actually fairly
easy to not only build, but you also can do some
upgrades later on down the line. Great for a first system. However, if you've got a
little bit more money to spend, I do think the mid-range option is well worth it. I mean, you're getting a lot here, right? Six core processor, 16 gigs of RAM, a decent graphics card, 512
gig SSD, or 500 gig SSD. I mean, there's a lot going for this, and for the bang for the buck, I mean, it's hard to beat. But, regardless, if you're considering buying or building a new gaming PC, I really do think now is a good time. Especially once prices start to creep up, we'll look back on late 2019 and think, ah, right, back when
you could get a system with super cheap RAM and a budget CPU. And not like, oh no. I miss the days of $35 RAM. (chill music)