- So when our friends
over at ROG reached out and asked to a sponsor video on something they're announcing at CES, I said, yes. But then they didn't
tell me anything else. They said, we're just
gonna send you a package and you're gonna like it. To Republic of Gamers, it's the game, - [Jared] Wait, are you telling
me the Republic of Gamers isn't a real place? - Is it like a mystery or something we're supposed to solve? 206006066066606. Let me give you you some coordinates. 250729.39 25 degrees. (overlapping chatter begins) I'm just trying to find
out the mystery. Okay? Oh, so it's all ROGgers. - [Jared] That's Taipei. - Whoa, whoa. Oh, do you smell this? - [Ken] No. - It smells like high end, like, like, what's what's not, it's not cologne. It's like eau de toilette. - [Ken] Just say cologne. - No, no, no, no, no. The
high end French stuff. We've got computing system 2006.
It's a metal boarding pass. Look at this. (metal ringing) You're Earth's last hope. We sincerely hope your
journey is a safe one. Welcome aboard. Yo. - [Ken] Austin Evans is our last hope. (all laugh) Wow. We're (censored) doomed. - [Jared] We are screwed. - We're recording this
at the end of December. So I think that has gotta
be their press conference to announce whatever this is. I just realized there's
a laptop underneath here. Is this one of the big chungus laptops? Oh my God, dude. Look at
this box. Look at the box. Oh, (Austin laughs) It's so heavy. So this
has gotta be the NR 2201. A lot of ports. Yo, what?
Wait. I'm so confused. Wait, is this a product
that's already out? Something's underneath these vents. That's not a screen. They're pulling some shenanigans here. - Oh, it's like cardboard. - Are they announcing cardboard? There's something inside. Wait, hang on, wait. There's
screws. There's screws. We can open this up. It's the
new version of the Mothership. That's like 20% smaller.
And it's inside the old one to show how much smaller it is. Asus sent me a mystery product. You'll never guess what happened next. - We're all excited about this. There's definitely just gonna
be another plaque in there. - Surprise. You're right.
What if it's just like, "Hey, guess what? Stay tuned
to the press conference." I'm really getting a
forearm workout right now. - Wow. You needed ROG to
help you with that or? - Oh, oh wait. I got some
separation. I got some separation. Okay. The reveal is, oh,
yo, it's a baby tablet. New versus old. Are you kidding me? Yo, you can even see inside. Look, there's like a glass panel. You can see like the circuit
board and everything. The ROG Flow, that looks so sick. It's got a kickstand. Yo, it's got Thunderbolt
and it's got the XGM so you can actually connect this to an external graphics card. I'll be right back after
some investigation on what it is that I've uncovered
on my ROG boarding pass. Yo how good of
an idea was this though? Like, they have like the old version that's like enormous and chungus-y. And they've got this, which is like what? The size of a regular tablet here. - [Ken] Here. Oh, the keyboard. This is included? - [Ken] Yes. - Thank you very much to
our kind friends at ROG for thinking about the little guy and including the keyboard
with your tablet in the box. So I know that they
were being all secretive on like what this thing is called. It says right here, the
ROG Flow Z13 keyboard. I wonder what the name of
this product is, the NR 2201? Didn't think I was gonna
figure that one out. Did ya? All right. Yo. Oh, RGB. Okay.
- [Ken] Let's go. - This is an engineering sample, which means that there are a lot of things I'm not supposed to do with it. Like benchmarking, which I would never do. But I could have a little poke around. It seems, this seems fair. First thought, the bezels
are really small on this. All right. What are the
specs of this gaming tablet? So we've got a- (bleep) Yo wait, this is an (bleep) processor? That means it's got (bleep) core
(bleep) logical processors. - [Ken] on a tablet? - [Jared] That's not announced? - It's not announced. - [Jared] That's a, like a complete- - I'm gonna censor all of that. This is running a brand
new Intel processor that I will tell you more about assuming that that's not under embargo. (Austin laughs) I saw (many) cores and 
(many) logical processors, like, wait a minute. That ain't right. I can tell you it's got 16 gigs of, oh, I can't tell you that either. Okay. - [Ken] Is it DDR not four? (all laughing) - You know what I can show you. 
It's got an RTX 3050Ti inside. Of a tablet! It has
not only Thunderbolt, but it does have the XG port. Which means that not only
you have an additional USB-C, but you can also plug in
an external graphics card and get double the
bandwidth of Thunderbolt. So you do kind of have
the best of both worlds. You can just use that
as an extra USB-C port or you can use it to get
additional XG mobile gaming. What do I do with this? I feel like anything I do, I
will get in trouble right now. - [Ken] Can we play games? - No. - We're not allowed? - We're not allowed. We can't. This is an engineering example. Okay. So it's a 3840 by 2,400 panel. Dude, there's so much
stuff I'm looking at here. I can't tell you any of this. I want to sincerely apologize
to our friends at Asus for blatantly doing things
that I'm not supposed to do. Okay. Let me just take a little look. I think I can do this, here.
I'm just gonna do this. Stop it. Stop it.
- [Ken] Austin. - You're gonna get me in trouble. Hang on. - [Ken] Just because things are embargoed doesn't mean that you can't try them out. You just can't show people what you're you're trying on
camera and the specifics of it. - So are you pitching me right now? - [Ken] So I think you
should play a game on it. I'll stand right here. Just
tell me it's good or it's bad. - Should I actually go and see
if they'll tell me anything? They might actually tell me some stuff. Okay. So I've been given some
very limited specs on this. It has 10 hours of battery life, 100 watt USB power delivery charging. It has both a full HD and a UHD panel. So this is the UHD version. It has a vapor chamber
for the CPU and GPU that, latest Intel H-series CPU.
That's definitely been announced. - [Ken] Man, my computer doesn't vape. - There are a bunch of things
that are interesting here. Now that I know a little bit about it. So first and foremost, there's a lot of performance
inside of this tablet. What you're getting here
is an H-series Intel (bleeps)
Intel processor. Which is what you would typically
find in a gaming laptop, a beefy, powerful gaming laptop. The fact that they've got
it in a tablet, which is, I mean, look, it's barely
thicker than a USB-A port. I mean, especially if you
take off the keyboard. This is far smaller than pretty much any, I'm gonna hide everything on display, any kind of small gaming
laptop that you're gonna find. Like that is an impressive sort of feat. But the fact that they've
also got a vapor chamber and a 3050Ti, you're not gonna be playing at 4K maxxed out settings on that. But you got a lot of performance for this kind of form
factors. Oh, look at this. You actually can access the
M.2 SSD right from the back. That is a very nice touch. They're gonna actually get mad at me. They straight up said, "Do not game or benchmark on this device. It is an engineering sample." - [Ken] You're not,
you're not gaming you're heavily Microsoft Wording. - There we go. I'm gonna open
up a non benchmark. Non-game. - [Ken] You're gonna
open up Microsoft Word... - Microsoft Horizon 5. - [Ken] Yeah.
- Microsoft Word Horizon 5. - [Ken] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - And I'll tell you what the, - [Ken] Words per minute,
words per minute is. - Exactly. How many words. Okay. Perfect. (Ken laughs)
- All right. - [Ken] What's your line
spacing. Is it ultra? Extreme? - They're gonna ban me from CES next year. - [Ken] How's Microsoft Word going? - What you talking about, Microsoft? I'm so happy that they've
added controller support. - [Ken] What's your typing speed? - 60. A locked 60 all the time. It vibrates every time I
type good. See, look, look. - Oh, look at that font. I know. I like to go
over the larger fonts, but then if you get a little
bit of bold right here. - Yeah, no, no kidding. - You can see that, oh, oh, oh. - Oh.
- okay. - Is that italics? - I know, right? (both laugh) You know, the Word
performance is great here. And also if you listen carefully, those fans not actually that loud concerning that there are
two fans directly exhaling, Exhaling? Exhausting, straight
out the back of the tablet. Gaming laptop, tablet, all in one. So if you would like to learn more, I'll have a link in the description. I'll also have a apology email sent to Asus shortly, on doing things I'm not supposed to do, but I'm kind of used to it at this point.