- This video is sponsored by Fiverr. For this episode of Mystery Tech, we've got a little bit
of something different. You know that little bit
of a different thing is? Whatever Ken's about to throw at me to start this section of Mystery Tech. Oh my gosh, it's a present. Is it my birthday? - [Ken] We went to Jared. (Illuminati confirmed music) - Kay. Did one of you guys wrap this? - [Ken] No. - [Matt] No, this was
an option for $1 extra when we bought it. - Wow. Wow, you'll never guess what's inside. Oh, you know, I can guess something bad. Is that Austin Potato? Is that an Austin Potato? Did you send an Austin Potato? I love it. I love it. - [Ken] Holy crap. (Ken and Matt laughing) That's really impressive. - The resemblance is uncanny. Do not eat this potato. Potato Parcel is not
liable for any illness if the potato is eaten. - [Matt] Take a bite. - No. This is great. Can I ask how much the Potato Parcel cost? - [Matt] $26. - [Austin] Why? But if you've ever watched
the BROKE vs PRO series, you'll know that Potato
Austin shows up all the time. I don't actually know how long
Potato Austin's been around, but every time I watch one of our videos, edit team keeps putting more and more Potato Austin's involved and I'm honestly very,
very excited about this. - [Matt] We don't need
Potato Austin anymore cause now we got our
awesome animation characters from Fiverr. - Are we about to have one of
the Fiverr animated characters pop up right beside
Potato Austin right now? Right there? There? Whoa, so lifelike and realistic. Wait, here, watch. Josh is gonna kill me. - [Matt] What are you going
to do with that Potato Parcel? - I'll put the Potato Parcel... Here, we're gonna give it to
Roboraptor to guard, okay? So, just Roboraptor, don't
let anyone steal my potato until it rots and we have to
go plant it in the ground. Now because this episode of
Mystery Tech is sponsored by Fiverr, they actually
have given us the opportunity to do something a little bit different. So if you're not familiar with Fiverr, it is an excellent online marketplace that is entirely dedicated
to give you access to a huge variety of freelancers. Now of course, we make
a lot of video content and while I'd like to think
that we're pretty good at making video, we aren't
necessarily as talented when it comes to something
like, oh, I don't know, graphics for Mystery Tech or
a jingle for Mystery Tech, maybe even some little characters to help spice up the episodes. So why don't we take a look
at our fine sponsor Fiverr, see we can find something that
ups the game a little bit. - [Ken] Do they have new hosts? (Matt laughs) - Are you trying to replace me with a freelancer from Fiverr? - [Matt] Yes. - That hurts. So here's someone who
will do Twitch emotes which is not technically what we need but this is clearly
someone who is talented at creating character art. So, we can do is let's hit
up a few of these people. Let's get some quotes,
explain to them what we need. And then you, dear viewer will be able to see exactly the fruits
of our Fiverr handiwork. - [Matt] I like how you say that we're gonna be doing
anything other than... - No, we're just asking for some help from the kind freelancers at Fiverr and they're going to do some amazing work to make Mystery Tech a series that you actually want to watch. So if you're working on your next project, definitely be sure to go check out Fiverr at the link in the description. And if you use the promo code AustinEvans, you can get yourself 10% off. (upbeat music) Oh, what? I couldn't even finish my jump! All right. The smart tech handcrafted calculator. A smart tech calculator. Well there's clearly a big lump here. Do I attack the lump? It's like a tumor. - [Matt] The tumor. - Oh, wait a minute. Is this a wooden keyboard? Ken, did you find a
wooden keyboard on Amazon? - [Ken] Yeah. Should be a whole set too. - Healthy, eco-friendly, and fashionable. Three things I love to see
out of my wooden keyboard, mouse, and bamboo solar calculator. How much was the wireless
multimedia bamboo keyboard and mouse combo featuring a calculator? - [Ken] It's about 50 bucks. - It's actually not bad. It's not bad. - [Matt] For all kit? - Hopefully, it doesn't feel too wooden. - Well, that's a, that, that's... I mean I'm not sure what I expected. To tell you the truth,
I don't know how I... Okay. - [Ken] It actually doesn't look that bad. - [Matt] No, I agree. It looks kinda nice. - I mean it is full wood
everywhere, everywhere. We've got our bamboo mouse which I've gotta say is hilariously small. Oh, I need batteries. Look at that, look at that. So we actually have like a
little like a foam pad inside but it is actually full bamboo. I don't see any plastic on this at all besides, I guess, maybe a
little bit where the sensor is. The fit on these batteries is atrocious. It's almost like they're made
out of wood or something. Woo. - My eyes! It's on. Yeah, the mouse works. - [Ken] It looks really
nice with our table. - It's actually not like crazy bad, right? I will say, looking at it,
I mean, it's a little weird, you can see some of the
bigger keys have been jointed. So there's a joint here,
joint here, joint here. Like it certainly a lot of
pieces that they're all been kinda like down machined
down or woodwork down. What's the phrase for woodworking? - [Ken] Woodworking? - Woodworks down? I don't think that's (keyboard
clicking drowns out speaker) (keyboard clicking) 74 words per minute. That's actually not crazy far
off my normal typing speed. It's a little strange, right? It does feel a lot like
a membrane keyboard which is most certainly is. The big thing that really
makes this different and the actual usability
side is just the fact that these keys are flat. They're very flat, like the
actual little like scoop for where your sort of finger
rests in the keys is next to non-existent which if
you're a confident typer, you don't really need that help. But I find like my fingers
almost slide around a little bit on the keys. I mean, this thing looks cool. It might not necessarily
be my style, right? I mean, I need that RGB
Razer Chroma action. Not the, I'm a person
who lives in the woods and I have a key cap... What's my summit, Matt? Reach your summit, Mountain. Oh, okay keyboards. Oh, is this a good keyboard
instead of bad keyboards? - [Ken] Yes. - Oh, wow. I actually feel honored that I'm looking at good keyboards today, okay. Woo. Okay. What's the deal with this? I've never actually even
heard of Mountain before. - [Ken] So, they sent this out to us. It is a relatively modular keyboard. - Oh my goodness. Oh, wow. That's a lot of stuff. Holy. This is one keyboard. Do you see this? This is all one keyboard. Look how much stuff comes in the box. - [Ken] It seems like with everything. - Uh-huh. - [Ken] $270. - So the number pad can go on either side. So it's got a couple of USB
Cs and you just slide it out which one you want to attach so- - [Ken] Oh, that's cool. - Woo, we got RGB. So we've got our little display here as well as we have our
display here as well. (keyboard clicking) When you look at the keyboard space, beyond stuff like building
a full custom keyboard, there's not a lot of
crazy differences, right? Like, oh, I have this more
RGB here, there, whatever. Like typically you would have
to get into the custom space to find something which
is truly different. But when you look at how
many modular abilities that this keyboard has and
honestly, how smart it is, right? The fact that I can just take this off, flip it around, and in like five seconds, move it over to the other
side of the keyboard, it's cool, right? That's a cool feature. The fact that I can just take
this off, look at that, right? Completely reconfigured the
keyboard in like 10 seconds, But having all of this in a keyboard which, yeah, it's pricey but compared to some of the other high-end
gaming keyboards out there, it's not crazy. I'm legitimately really happy
with how solid this thing is. So with this point of the video, you've likely seen the fine
assets that we've gotten from the freelancers on Fiverr. However, at this point,
I actually haven't. So the first thing we've got
is the Mystery Tech jingle. (upbeat music) Yo, that's really like mystery techy. This is all a completely
original music too. Wait, let's see the other options. (upbeat music) Do you know how much we paid for someone to make this completely
custom Mystery Tech music? Just take a guess. - [Ken] $150? - $89. - [Ken] That's it? - That's it. - [Ken] Wow. - It's actually really good. So, we also have a bunch of
other assets that we've got. So, you've definitely seen
this in the video already but we basically have all
of these little emotes of the team which previously,
we have like Potato Austin and whatnot but now, we have everyone. So the next thing we sent
out is a Mystery Tech logo. So this is what we got back and honestly, I feel like it captures the
vibe of Mystery Tech well, but it's not just the logo
because then we took this logo and we sent it off to be
animated into the transition that you can see right here. (upbeat music) I am really happy. So, big thank you of course, to Fiverr for not only
sponsoring this video, but for also spicing up
some Mystery Tech action. Is that a PS One? Is that what I see? Is this a PS One screen and a PS One? Okay, so, if you are born in the nineties, you might be familiar
with this little console called the Sony, the what do you call it? The PlayStay, Stayed,
Splay, Play, Placate, the Plays, a PlayStation. Yeah, that was it. That, yeah, yeah, yeah. So this is the cool kid version, which was not only
incredibly tiny compared to the original PS One, but importantly, had the five-inch LCD screen. It was like when we built
the ultimate game cube except five years before
that and probably better in every single way. - [Ken] This is also official. Our local store, - Kay. - [Ken] Mind you, they
definitely upcharge us a little bit but we wanna support our local-
- They see you walk in, they go, "Oh, Ken's wasting
money so it's fine." - [Ken] Well, we support
local businesses here. Especially, you know, mom
and pop video game ones. - Just tell me how much
the stupid things were. - [Ken] $300 each. - Actually, it's not terrible. - [Ken] Not the best,
especially, you know, if you shop around online,
you can definitely find them for probably like, you
know, one to $200 cheaper. - Yeah. - [Ken] But for ones that
we could just get right away and can actually see in person, - Oh, yeah. The PS One controller. Not to be confused with the
PlayStation One controller cause this one actually says PS One on it. Wow! Gee whiz pa, this is great. Are you sure this isn't brand new cause this looks completely brand new. - [Ken] If it isn't brand new, It's really well taken care of. - It has this, wait,
it has a sticker on it? Oh, this is definitely used. Someone put a sticker on it. Look at that. Oh, this is actually kinda interesting. So it actually gives you extra ports. So normally, the PS One just
has the power and the AV out. This also has headphone jack and AV in. So you can now use this screen
to say, watch Nickelodeon or something, but you also could plug in a pair of headphones. Nice. We'll start out with some Need
for Speed III: Hot Pursuit. Best Need for Speed of all time. Don't @ me. (retro game music) (Austin exhaling) Hmm, right in the nostalgia, woo! Who needs drugs when
you just listen to that? - 3, 2, 1, go! - [Ken] Dude, these graphics
are better than I remembered. - Dude, this game does
not look bad, right? I got weather effects. I will say this screen
is not the best though. It's very much one of those
late nineties like LCD panels. It's okay but if you
have the viewing angle even slightly off, like you're sharing with like your little
brother or something, it's really hard to see. Let's swap over to some Harry Potter. I don't think our copy
of The Sorcerer's Stone is any good anymore. You can hear the disk is it's not reading. Look at that. Voice acting in the PS One game. - [Matt] Who needs to read
the books when you got this? - Look at that. Look at the power of the PS One. So this is that early sorta
game where it's third person but like I can't control
the camera, right? I'm just being able to use
the left like analog stick to move around. This game was incredibly
ambitious for the PS One though. There's a lot that was going on. Wow, I don't actually
remember this game running at such terrible frame rates. I didn't even know what a
frame rate was back then. Dude, I'm so, so happy. This is legit. This is the dream. This is the 2000 dream. - [Ken] I think in the year
2000, you wanted a PS2. - No, you wanted the PS One, Ken. There was no screen to attach to a PS2. What, are you gonna carry
around a CRT on one arm and your PS2 on the other? - [Ken] No, they made PS2 screens, dude. - Wait, they did? - [Ken] I mean not official, but, yeah. - Oh. So we're getting that for
next episode of Mystery Tech? - [Ken] Actually. (upbeat music) - Woo, Euler's Disk. I hardly knew Euler. - [Matt] What? - Euler's Disk, spinning science into art. You won't believe your eyes or ears as the disk spins faster and louder. So if you've watched Mystery Tech before, you'll know that we have a
propensity for taking a look at slightly more fun and
unique items such as things that zip, zap, zoop and zop. Now, today, the Euler's
Disk seems very much like the kind of product
that will just fit right in. So we've got the Austin mirror
where I can stare at myself. So basically, hold it up
right, slightly angled onto its rolling edge
and give it a easy twist. Is that right here? Angle it... Whoa, whoa. Oh, I feel the magnet, okay
and then just twist it. (upbeat music) What? Wait, it just keeps going? I think it's going for a very long time. It just doesn't wanna give up. Yo, this is trippy, man. It's still going. This is the first time I've spun it. Is it about to disappear out of existence? - [Matt] There it is. Whoa! That was like the coolest like
sci-fi sound I've ever heard. Ooh. All right, here we go. Okay. Dude, this is trippy, man. Dude, it straight up looks
like it's just like appearing and disappearing right now. I really wonder what this thing looks like in slow motion right now
cause like to my eye, it just looks like it's like flickering in and out of existence. Oh, man, look how fast that is. (Austin laughs) Yo, that is so cool. (upbeat music) Thank you. Thank you very much. This is like a hanger. Hi Res, oh, okay. That looks like some Sony action. MDR-M1ST. Let's see what our
friends over at Sony have to pleasure me aurally. - [Matt] Aurally. - [Ken] Wait, no, no. - [Matt] Aural. - [Ken] No. - Aural bliss, man.
- [Ken] No, no, no. That was the worst one though. That was actually the worst one. So these are the successor to the most popular studio
headphones in Japan. - The 7506's? - [Ken] No, but the next step up to that. They are the CD900ST's. - Okay.
- [Ken] They're literally in every recording studio
in Japan, more or less. - Ooh, wow. These are actually very nice. These actually have like some
really nice leather to them. It's certainly a little
more of like a modern style, which makes sense cause
they're gonna be making these uninterrupted for the next 30 years. How much were the MDR-M1ST's? - [Ken] 300 bucks. - Uh-huh. I also got you a spare
cable that Sony also sells. - Can we just not pretend with words like I got you a cable. Can we all just be in agreement?
- [Ken] I got us a cable. - Keep going. - [Ken] I got me a cable.
- There you go, that's it. So, to test these headphones, I don't listen to any of
your fancy high res audio that this DAC and
headphones are designed for so I'm gonna listen to Spotify
with my 80 dollar cable. - I literally have Amazon music unlimited HD.
- It's fine. It's so okay. It's fine. Oh, wow. You know what, I immediately
have a problem with these. These cushions do nothing. - [Ken] Are the drivers too close to your ears? - I'm literally, it's... Yeah, exactly, like- - [Ken] Yeah. That's a common complaint. We need to also get third, sorry, I have to get third-party pads for this. - Really? Nah, man. I don't wanna be rude. - [Matt] Great way to start it? - But,
(Ken laughs) - I'm not impressed at all. Maybe they just need to be
burned in a little bit. It sounds a little too airy to me. I don't know if it's because
the drivers like so close to my eardrums, it's just,
they don't sound good, they sound fine. But certainly for the price, I don't know. - [Ken] Let me actually see. - Jump in, jump in. I'm super curious. I'm not feeling it. - I kinda see what Austin's
saying, but I do feel like, yeah, these are definitely... Where did he go? I can see why-
- Hello, welcome to my much better headphone corner. These are the Grado SR325x's. The headphones that are
gonna sound far better than your nonsense and- - I am surprised that you've got an actual legit pair of headphones and not-
- Handmade in Brooklyn. - I'm from Brooklyn. - I know, you were
handmade in Brooklyn too. (Austin laughs) (Matt groans) These are their latest generation. They've got like some
new drivers and stuff. They were fairly expensive. They were... - How much is fairly expensive? - [Matt] I also just wanna point out that he always get mad at us when we don't have the
prices immediately available. - Yeah, Austin. How much are these? - $295. - $295, all right. - Less than your nonsense. It's your show now. - Okay, okay. - Everyone likes you more
for some weird reason, I don't know why. - Wow.
- Go ahead, go ahead. No, no, no. Unbox. Show it off. Show off why the Grado's are great and why your headphones suck. Why I'm a better host.
- You know- - And why Fiverr can't save you now. - It's great cause finally, the boss acknowledges you for once. Man, this box looks really, really nice. All right and oh, these
look like the SR80's, just silver.
- What? They're metal. Those are totally different. Look at the stitching on the headband. - Cool, I guess. These feel like they will hurt a lot. Do you see how little padding that is? These are really, really
well-built though. They feel nice in hand. - You see the girth on them? - It is meaty. Not that Austin would
know what that's like. I mean, these are definitely
a better listening experience for the average person, I'll say that. - Almost like it's better
for UrAverageConsumer. - These headphones are just as
good as Austin say they are. They're very warm. The vocals sound very rich. I like this a lot. They're great. Are these for you? - Yeah, these are mine. - Okay, cool. I thought so. Well, you take your $300 headphones and I'll take my $300 headphones. - Wow, it's almost like it's happily ever after. Wow, your heads really large. Have you ever- - [Matt] Where's my headphones? - He called my head large. Oh, well, yeah, yeah, yeah. - You've got a big head, man. - Thank you. - You walked through (stammers). (Ken laughs) Big thank you to Fiverr for
sponsoring today's episode of Mystery Tech. Don't forget to go check out
the link in the description and use that promo code
AustinEvans to check out to get yourself 10% off.