- Hey guys this is Austin, and this is the ultimate iPhone XS. So unlike when we usually do
these videos in the studio I felt like why not take a
little trip outside to the park and enjoy some sunshine and
fresh air as I build really stupid things for the internet. To start out with we have the brand new Marshall Kilburn II. Now, Marshall were awesome
enough to sponsor this video because they too share an
affinity for building really ridiculous things on the
internet, and they have some some special speakers. This, my friends, is how
you do a Bluetooth speaker So now did you hear that? (thud) One of the main reasons why
we choose the Kilburn II for this video is because it
does support Bluetooth 5.0. Something shared by the
new XS and the XS Max. Now this actually gives you
a few different features. One of the big ones here
specifically with the Kilburn is that you can pair it
with multiple devices. (Announcer speaking in the distance) Oh, oh, we should leave. I was about to blast the
speakers, we can't do this in front of the Mayor. Can we go back to the studio? - [Spongebob Squarepants
Announcer] A few moments later. - Back in the studio lets
give this a bit more of a proper try. - [Speaker] Pretty cool. So it's actually got a Scorpio on the front, which would
make sense because it is Scorpio version of the console that now has a skin covering all that up. - So that was eight. (rapping) This thing is so powerful I
can literally feel the air moving this far behind it. It has one twenty five watt amp and two fifteen watt amps inside. This is ridiculous, and
the cool part about it is that it is a fully wireless speaker. You can get twenty hours of battery life. So I'm going to be cranking
it to ten here, and one of the cool parts about it is
that it is multidirectional. So that its not like Ken
is only going to be able to hear on a very narrow kind of thing. I mean, this thing fills the room. (hip hop music) Take one look at the Kilburn
2 and you'll see its got that classic Marshall style, but
it also is fairly rugged. Its IPX Seven water resistant
so its not afraid of a day at the beach or something. It does feel pretty sturdy,
I mean, its ready to party. If you want to get your hands on your own Marshall Kilburn II of course, the link will
be in the description. Uh, I've got to say, this is
the loudest, the best sounding Bluetooth portable speaker
that I've ever tried. Excuse me I'm gonna go back
to the park now, and hopefully the Mayor doesn't yell at me
for, uh, disturbing the peace. Of course audio isn't the
only component in building the ultimate iPhone XS. Video also plays a huge roll
which is where, well, some of our more creative accessories come in. First off, we need the Casey
Neistat special, and by Casey Neistat special I mean the knock-off Casey Neistat special. The Allsop Three Pod. So this is a combo tripod
mount and selfie stick, and that actually feels really sturdy. Um, okay, so I guess this
could be better than a tripod if I just was able to lock it down. I'm sure this light is going
to be very useful shooting outside in beautiful sunlight
and wonderful shade with some cloud cover and everything
we could ever want in life. Dude look how much easier this is. Okay, so now we have not only
tripod which bounces a lot and is kind of derpy,
but we also have a light. Do you see how, uh, revolutionary this is? So this is a test of what
the video looks like on our super cool iPhone with the
light which I don't think is making a difference. Can we do some cool stuff now? So this, this is a slightly
creative take on building the ultimate iPhone XS camera. So first of all we do have
the B-strip case as well as the lens adapter. Now this is actually meant
to work with a wide variety of smart phones and the idea
is that you can attach a much nicer piece of glass
such as this really nice L series 7820 Canon lens but we didn't really plan this
out fully if you can possibly believe something like
that, and so we had to be a little creative. Most notably there's a little
bit of gap between the lens and the iPhone. Uh, you know, flange distance
and all that kind of stuff. So using our three pod and
our little mini tripod we were able to get it just about right
to, um, sort of look decent. This is what iPhone video
really should look like if its shot by a true professional set-up. And I mean, this is not a
true professional set-up, but with a little bit of
ingenuity and a whole lot of stupidness we've got ourselves a, uh, an ultimate set-up my friends. Next up its time for some
wireless charging action. So the iPhone XS actually
does charge faster wirelessly than the X, and we're going
to put that to the test. Starting with this, the
Appstronics VXX Max iPhone XS Max battery case. (inhales deeply) This is a case for the
iPhone XS Max which does have a battery built in that also
supports wireless charging itself so you can make a
wireless charging sandwich. First step is to drop our
iPhone XS Max into the case it will connect via Lightning
and this is going to give us five thousand additional milliamp hours of charging capability. This is the Momax QPower 2 X. Now we've actually taken a
look at a couple of wirelessly charging battery banks in the
past, but what makes this one a little bit special is not
only does it have a massive twenty thousand, wait, twenty thousand? Twenty thousand, not two
thousand, its twenty thousand milliamp hours of capacity,
but also will support not only charging over USB
as well as wireless but, it will support USBC power in place. First of all let me
see if this will charge the iPhone by itself. Yes, okay, immediately it
pops up that it is charging. So the battery is working. Now this needs to charge,
wait, does it charge upside down or something stupid? No. Its got to have wireless
charging on the back, right? How do I ever know if
this charging though? There's no, like, the LEDs
are on the back so if you put it face down, (plastic fumbling) So right now the battery bank
is wirelessly charging the case supposedly which is
then charging the phone which is definitely getting a
charge from something in this stack right now. If that's not enough how
about some air power, or some knock-off air power. So I guess part of this is for
the iPhone and part of this is for the Apple Watch? I think. Oh, so that's the watch
charger which pops up. Wow, this actually might not be garbage. I totally assumed it would be terrible. Okay, step one, we have a
wireless charging Apple Watch. That's actually really cool as is. Now can this monstrosity charge? This doesn't charge via wireless, does it? This is a, it charges the
phone wirelessly, it doesn't actually take wireless power. Alright, I'm just gonna, we're
just gonna move past that. Don't worry about it, its
fine, I'm just gonna put the iPhone on the charger and
pretend that I totally knew that my wireless charging
sandwich was going to work. Okay, so, just do this. Hey, look! Airpower! It actually works. What? This stupid thing actually works? We've got the watch charging,
we've got the phone charging. Don't worry about the
case in the battery bank, that's all totally fine. I'm actually really impressed
with the air power, and no, this is not me just clinging
desperately on to any small part of my contraption that
actually is working today. So if you guys want to check
out anything that does work, including the wonderful Marshall
Kilburn II Speaker which is linked in the description
alongside some of the other slightly less impressive products. You can go check that out,
and if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go listen to some
music really loudly and charge my things wirelessly I hope.