Recently, I was reading about 
Tencent founder Pony Ma meeting   with Chinese officials about antitrust issues.   I’ve written about WeChat’s anti-competition 
problems before so I was doing some follow up. It is not a bad article. But a 
line near the end caught my eye: > Lawmakers again brought up gaming addiction   among youths during a gathering of top 
Chinese leaders in Beijing in March Tencent is the biggest gaming company in the 
world, with the most profitable games in the   world too. It is kind of amusing to think about Xi 
Jinping and the rest of China’s most powerful men   sitting in a conference room talking 
about Honor of Kings and Moonlight Blade.   But they apparently are, and it is something 
concerning enough to go to the highest levels. Video game addiction is a problem that spans 
many Asian countries, so you don’t need to   comment that. But this video is going to focus on 
gaming addiction issues amidst the Chinese youth.   Why are they are getting addicted? What’s 
going on? And what can be done about it? There are 494 million Chinese 
who play internet games.   That’s over 57% of the country’s total internet 
users. Most internet gamers play it healthily,   in such a way that helps them cope with 
the slings and arrows of everyday life. However, a significant percentage have found 
themselves addicted to their games. This   addiction can cause side effects similar 
to that of other addictions: Depression,   anxiety, academic dysfunction, bad sleep, and 
worsening relations with friends and family. Internet Gaming Disorder as it is formally called 
is a newly defined habit and impulse disease,   grouped together with gambling addictions. 
How do you know if you have it?   It is largely diagnosed through the 
use of self-reported questionnaires.   The questions differ, but 
can include the following: When I am not actually playing video games, am I 
thinking about playing? (Sign of Preoccupation) When I cannot play any video games, do I get 
irritable and restless? (Sign of Withdrawal) Have I been spending an increasing amount of time 
playing video games recently? (Sign of Tolerance) I have tried to cut back or stop playing games.   Or I usually play games for longer than 
I intend. (Sign of Loss of control) Because of video games, I 
have reduced my homework,   eaten less, have gone to bed later, or 
have gotten into an argument with someone.   (Continued use despite knowledge of problems 
+ Conflict with job/relationships/school) Sometimes I conceal my gaming 
from others. (Deception) When I feel bad, nervous, or sad, 
I play video games. (Escape). Like with all things psychological, context 
matters and experiences vary. A disorder does   not have to follow the letters of the rule for 
someone to have it. But, based on the answers to   these questions, a "score" can be generated 
and a degree of addiction can be assessed. ## Prevalence Just how big of a problem is this? 
The numbers vary for many reasons.   For instance, a 2009 study of gamers in 4 colleges 
in southwest China found that 15.5% of those   gamers had some mild addiction, with 1.5% having 
it much more severe. In 2010, a 100,000 person   study (the biggest yet) reported a 3.2% adolescent 
addiction rate. Overall, not just of gamers. Okay, 1.5-3% is not so bad, right? But then 
again, these studies are quite old and pre-date   the WeChat and mobile gaming boom. I personally 
think they are a bit misleading, which is why it   surprises me that I see these older surveys cited 
in papers as recent as 2018. We need newer data. A 2020 survey study of 6,400 adolescent 
gamers recruited through WeChat said that 17%   of Chinese adolescents have some form 
of addiction to internet video games. Another 2019 study in Shanghai and Xi'an reported 
13%. This is in comparison to ranges of 1.5-2%   in Europe, albeit using smaller sample sizes. We can quibble over the studies 
and relevancy of the data all day.   Let us move on with the belief that we can 
reasonably say that the problem in some form or   another exists in a range somewhere between 3.5% 
to 20% of the total Chinese adolescent population. The real number is likely to be somewhere in 
that middle range, which is kind of concerning.   One out of every seven or so Chinese 
kids have some form of gaming habit. This problem exists amongst Taiwanese and 
Hong Kong youths too. We can use their data to   corroborate. I have seen many a Taiwanese teenager 
on the MRT mindlessly swiping at a character   sprite on a mobile phone. One study in Taiwan 
shows that 46% of adolescent game players exhibit   some form of addiction. Two Hong Kong studies show 
that 13-15% of gamers can be said to be addicted. ## Causes: People Is there anything that makes Chinese youths 
more susceptible to video game addiction?   This has not been thoroughly explored in 
enough detail to give a conclusive response.   When we find traits correlated 
with addiction, which causes which?   We don't know. Correlation is 
not causation, yada yada yada. With that being said, we can say that 
game addicted Chinese youths tend to be   introverted. And exhibit heightened 
levels of neuroticism and impulsivity.   They may have lower self-esteem, self-control, 
and elevated levels of perceived stress. Chinese studies have noticed the repeated presence 
of escapist factors. Escape from what? Difficult   relationships within the family or school 
are most frequently cited. Bad parent-child,   teacher-student, and student-student relationships 
are most cited in when studying gaming addiction. What a lot have noticed is that young people 
in Asian cultures do not have a lot of agency   over their lives. I mean, even less than what 
young people normally get elsewhere. Student   life is highly structured and often focused around 
stressful test-taking and educational achievement. Additionally, Asian societal dynamics emphasize 
obedience by the child to both the parent and the   school teacher. Sometimes, those parents and 
teachers can be strict to the point of abuse.   In a situation where everything is up 
to someone else, video games might be   the only place where a youth might be 
able to exercise some form of control. ## Causes: Games In every market, there is demand 
and supply. We talked about demand,   now let us talk about supply - 
the game companies themselves. The Chinese video game market 
is the biggest in the world.   The most common video games there are mostly 
free-to-play. This means that the game maker   allows the player to access most of the 
game's functions and levels without payment. The game makes money when the player buys 
something within the game's universe.   For instance, players might pay 
for certain skins and accessories.   In other games, artificial limiters 
are placed on game progress.   Players can pay to lift those restrictions 
and keep playing the game unimpeded. The majority of players do not buy anything. So 
game companies have to find that small percentage   of players who do. The so-called "whales". User research finds that the longer 
the player plays the game, the more   willing they are to transact virtual goods for 
them. Gamers love to enter a state of "flow"   when playing a game, that feeling of 
being totally immersed in something. Thus,   companies are incentivized to 
maximize their game's stickiness. One particularly sore point are loot boxes - 
repeated in-game purchases to obtain a random   selection of virtual items. For instance, if 
you want to get this particular colored skin   for your character, you buy the loot 
box again and again until you get it. A legal study in China found that 91 of 
the 100 most popular video games on the   Chinese Apple App Store have loot boxes. 
Far more than what can be found in the UK   and Australia. Even games deemed 
"suitable" for 12 year olds - 90%   of them have loot boxes. It is a core 
part of the Chinese gaming mechanic. Some 70% of transactions come from people 
aged 29 and under. So gaming companies   specifically target such young gamers 
with bright colors and cute designs.   It is inevitable that adolescents get caught 
in the dragnet. And sometimes the kids play   games because the parents themselves play a 
lot of games too. Like parent, like child. ## What The Chinese Government is Doing The Chinese government has passed several 
regulations in an early attempt to wrangle   its video game addiction problems. Some of these 
regulations have gotten bad press in the West,   which I think lacks perspective into the 
enormity of the problem in Chinese society. The first is the requirement for gaming companies 
to verify the identities of their players.   Kind of like how banks need to know their 
customers. If a player is not verified,   then they cannot play. Exceptions are 
made for demo versions of games - 1 hour   of play is allowed and no money can be exchanged. The second is the forced shutdown of all 
video game services to juveniles between   10 PM and 8 AM. This regulation 
follows that of similar actions   undertaken in South Korea. Later studies 
of that effort though did not find   improved sleep patterns amongst youths. 
We will see if China will be different. Third and finally, companies need to provide hard 
limits on gaming hours played and money spent.   Kids cannot play for more than 3 daily hours 
on weekends and holidays. 1.5 hours on school   weekdays. Kids under 16 cannot spend more than $28 
a month on their games. Under 18, that doubles. Again, these regulations follow that of 
South Korea. China did not come up with   these ideas first. But it should be noted 
that these South Korean regulations were   eventually found to be a form of illegal 
corporate discrimination and overturned. When it comes to loot boxes, gaming companies 
have fiercely fought attempts to regulate them.   The result is a lack of global consensus. 
The USA courts have largely stayed out of it.   European governments on the other 
hand have gotten more involved. The Chinese government has taken a different 
approach, requiring the game companies to   disclose the probabilities of receiving certain 
items. But adherence to the policy is lacking,   with disclosures hard to find, not adding 
up to 100%, or constantly changing. One paper noticed that games have 
added "pity timer" mechanics,   things that raise the probability of 
getting certain items the more loot boxes   you buy. This is not a mercy. It actually 
encourages you to play longer and longer. ## Conclusion To close, I want to share a short personal story. 
My college roommate was a video game addict. When   I first moved in for the year, he had been 
a nice enough fellow and apparently smart.   But he soon got into playing a MMORPG and 
never left his room. His grades crashed. He   ate nothing but the chicken nuggets that 
he would microwave three times a day.   I hated that smell. His parents back home 
could do nothing even after the university   booted him from the program. He just gamed all 
day in his chair, right up until I moved out. I know that I might sound like 
my father right now saying this.   And even if most people 
eventually just “grow out of it”,   it just does not feel right. The long-term effects 
of video game addiction are scarcely studied.   But the short-term effects of poor academic 
results, crippled socialization abilities,   and financial deterioration are bad enough 
to warrant some corrective behavior. And I agree with you that the problem 
is complicated. Gaming addictions can   be indicative of more deeply engrained problems 
within Chinese society. Symptoms, rather than   causes. And we should tread cautiously when 
curtailing freedoms. I agree with all of this. But doing nothing about the problem except to 
rub our chins and to say that it is complicated   feels like the wrong solution. The country 
should not just let this grow unchecked.   They got to try something. Yet I think the gaming companies - all 
of which are Chinese, by the way - have   had the upper hand thus far in the battle to 
curb gaming’s societal influences. Sometimes,   I wonder if Tencent having control 
over WeChat and its news functions   has something to do with that. There 
is just too much money sloshing around. But now that the problem is 
reaching China’s highest levels,   I am interested to see how that 
might change in the near future.