- Hushme Personal Voice Mask. - [Matt] This is a gift
from all of us to you. - Does this turn me into Bane? I was born in the darkness! - [Matt] Why'd you give
Bane a Mickey Mouse's voice? That's the only voice you have. - This is a mask where you can have a
potentially private conversation via Bluetooth, but without
people around you seeing it. - [Matt] If you remember, we actually did a product
like this, very similar, and it was so you could sing karaoke- - Yes!
- Without everyone hearing it. - It was the mic that had the foams! Oh boy, too many straps. - [Matt] There's never too many straps, that's what I learned in Vegas. - Matt, I need you to just
take it down a notch, please, take it down a notch. This looks so weird! This looks like, for a Cyclops, but with- - [Ken] Yeah, but with one ear. - One ear on the front. (Ken laughing) - [Ken] This is a headset
that only van Gogh could love. - 'Cause he's got one ear. (laughing) - Yeah! (laughing) - Hey! - Oh, look, so the headphones
are just magnetic to the back. This, while hideous,
stupid, and ridiculous, I'm actually like not the
worst person to try this. I spend a fair bit of
my days on phone calls, and I'm always having to like walk around so that Jared doesn't
hear about Jared 2.0, and he gets all like upset
and cries or whatever. But if I had this on, I wouldn't have to worry
about anyone's feelings. So, there's "mask" and there's "headset." What, what? I don't even get it. - [Ken] Oh, wow. - [Matt] It works. - I don't think I got it right. This does not seem like
the optimal way to Hushme. Matt, I thought you were the strap master. Are you a little outta practice? - My straps are a little
bit more professional. So, you got these bad boys. - I don't like this. This is highly sus. Are you trying to say I look like Goofy? I gotta say, (Goofy laughing) my breathing is not great in this. It almost kinda like covers my
nose a little bit. (laughing) (static crackling) It's Hushme time. So, I'm going talk for a bit
right now with the Hushme on, and you can be the judge
of what this sounds like. You have headphones
on, and that seems sus. Matt looks great today. And Ken has a fresh cut, and honestly, it's looking pretty fly. - [Matt] Is this just me,
or does it make him look like he has like a big
old, thick mustache? - [Ken] It does. - How much can you guys hear? - [Matt] A lot of it. - [Ken] But, I won't hear
you from the next room now. - I was speaking relatively loudly. Let's actually hear what that sounds like. This is the last time
you'll ever hear my voice- - [Ken] What? - [Matt] This is way
clearer than what we heard. (recording crackling) Oh wait, oh. - [Ken] Nevermind. (Ken laughing) - Can you present the next
item of "Mystery Tech"? (easy-going music) Kind of heavy, alright. A non-descript brown box,
exactly what I like to see out of the... Oh, Jesus. The Xebec tri-screen two. - [Ken] So, we did this once before. - [Austin] Yeah, yeah. - [Ken] But, it was not good. - [Matt] Yeah, and it was adhesive. - [Ken] It was one extra screen, not two. - [Matt] This is pretty much
specifically for a MacBook. - How much is the Xebec? (Ken laughing) - [Matt] Remember when
we had that conversation about upping the budget
for "Mystery Techs"? - The problem is this is dumb. - [Matt] We paid $300 for the other one. This is 500 bucks. - I'm immediately upset. This thing is gonna suck! These things always suck. Alright, packaging,
we'll give them, is cool. It's a chunky boy, but alright, alright. - [Matt] It's got multiple screens! - That's fine. So, as someone who does use a
MacBook as my primary system, right? I dock when I'm at work, I dock it sometimes when I'm at home. I can see a scenario in which
I'm editing on two screens, and I've got a third screen to watch. (chill music) Ow. I'm curious, these are
quite small screens. So, this for reference
is a 14-inch MacBook Pro. (upbeat music) Oh. Okay, well.. - [Matt] There's a kickstand. - Is there a kickstand? Okay. Oh yeah, you're right. Alright, alright. So I will say, from
the front, you can see, it literally just sort of attaches, right? So you just kind of extend it,
line it up with the top edge, and then it attaches. And it attaches to the top, so you don't have to
worry about the bottom. So theoretically, that would
be fairly close to universal. So immediately, way better design than the
earlier version of this from the other company that we tried. Okay, so both are out, and I can... The hinges have some play,
but they're not too bad. So, plugging one into the MacBook. Oh, Xebec is firing up. (upbeat music continues) The MacBook sees it, and there we go. Okay, so it immediately works. So hang on, let me plug the other one in. And I've got three screens on my MacBook. Now, one thing you would
definitely need to keep in mind is if you're running three
screens on your computer, these screens are pulling
power from your laptop, right? So, I can see a scenario in which this is going to
significantly hurt your battery, so you probably wanna be
using this plugged in. But realistically, if you're weirdos, pulling out three
screens in a coffee shop, you probably have a power
adapter with you anyway. I'll say this works pretty well. And supposedly, so each of these displays has two USB-C and an HTDMI per. So theoretically, if I
plug in a power adapter into the screen, it
will charge the laptop, which they say is in case you don't
have enough extra USB-Cs. The problem is so few laptops actually support two USB-Cs with video. Like honestly, it is a lot more limited
than you might think, which is one of the reasons
why I really hesitate. My big question here is
not so much does this work, 'cause we can see it works. My bigger question is how
easily portable is this? - Boom, boom, and close it, boom, and then take it on the...
Oh, I don't like that. - It doesn't close. - It's actually hitting the laptop- - Yeah 'cause it's got a little thing. So, you're never gonna
wanna leave this on. This is like 85% there. Especially if you got like
a MacBook or something, you can just plug your iPad
in and get a second screen. It's much, much easier.
- Oh, yeah. (laughing) - You could have like
your iPad on the side, either wirelessly or connected via USB-C. - [Matt] That's the same price, and you get two screens for this one. - Yeah, but an iPad actually works. - It actually has an OS on it. - Ah, the outdoors, what a lovely place to appreciate what's
really important in life, gaming portably, thanks to
the power of today's sponsor, the EcoFlow Delta 2, a
one kilowatt-hour battery. I don't need to touch grass again. With up to 225 watts from
our solar panel over here, you can juice this up from anywhere. However, the EcoFlow also allows you to extremely quickly recharge
it when you're at home, using their X-Stream technology, by going from 10% to 80%
in less than an hour. With up to 1800 watts of power, this is enough now to
easily run my gaming setup. But realistically, with the
Delta 2, this is enough to power pretty much any kind of appliance that you would plug into
a normal household outlet. Actually, we're still charging technically 'cause the PC running with the monitor is about 70, 80 watts, and
we're pulling 100 watts with Joanna in front of my solar panel. - [Joanna] Okay. - Excuse me, my solar
efficiency's very important! There we go. Now, I'm plus 100 watts charging
while I run my gaming PC. Thanks to the lithium
iron phosphate battery, the Delta 2 will last a very long time. You can go from 100% to zero
every single day for 10 years and the battery will still hold up. And if one kilowatt-hour
isn't enough for you, you can expand this all the
way up to three kilowatts, AKA a bigger battery than
a lot of hybrid cars have. And using the EcoFlow app, you can also remotely manage everything, including taking a look at how much power is being generated by your solar panel, and of course being exhausted out through your very many AC ports. Now, you might see these ridiculous specs and think, "That's
gotta weigh 100 pounds!" - Ah! - Well no, in fact, it weighs only 27, which means that especially
with the built-in handles, it's actually really quite portable. With the EcoFlow Delta 2,
what you're getting here is an incredibly powerful battery solution for pretty much anything
you wanna throw at it. Whether you're gaming in the
park, camping for a weekend, or you just wanna have a
little bit of peace of mind knowing that you can go off the grid, definitely be sure to go
check out the EcoFlow Delta 2 with the link in the description. And thank you very much to EcoFlow for sponsoring this
episode of "Mystery Tech." You know this is gonna be a good
segment of "Mystery Tech" when Roboraptor's out here. Next item, please. Caught. The Mighty Mug? - [Matt] That Mighty
Mug has been in the sink for about four years. - Who in this room is
familiar with the Mighty Mug? 'Cause there's a huge backstory. - [Matt] We all watched
Lou's video on this. - [Ken] It is literally one of my favorite unbox therapy videos of all time. - The moment that I first saw this was absolutely incredible. And the fact that that Lou
video, when he's just like, "Are you kidding me, what?" - What? - Was one of the great YouTube
tech moments in history. Wait, Kinsey, are you familiar with this? - No, I'm new to the unbox dudes. - [Matt] Would you like to
come and experience this? - Unbox dude? (laughing) - Okay. The unbox dude, okay. Take a look at this mug. I feel like I'm presenting
a magic trick right now. A regular mug. You see that little kinda
rubber bit on the bottom, right? Whack it. - [Matt] Well, you
pushed, you didn't whack. - So imagine this, you're sitting there, drinking your coffee. (metal clinking) Okay, that was a bad example. - [Ken] No! You broke the Mighty Mug! (casually humming) - It works! - Wait, no! - Also, you gotta hit it once
and let it reset a little bit. - Reset- - 'Cause if you hit it a
second time, it goes flying. - [Matt] You're gonna reenact Lou's video. - That I haven't seen? - Yeah, and we're gonna coach you, we're gonna teach you
how to do this, okay? - [Kinsey] Okay, okay. - [Matt] You're just
gonna do a lot of "What?" - What? - [Matt] No. - [Austin] Like a bit more like- - What? - [Austin] Yeah! - [Matt] Yeah, oh whoa, whoa, whoa! - What? Is that, is that, how,
is that how he does it? - [Matt] You're basically Lou. - To really properly do this, this should be full of some
sort of like mystery liquid. - [Matt] Why does it have
to be a mystery liquid? - Thank you for letting me
experience the Mighty Mug. (laughing) - [Ken] It's a relic of the past. - (gasping) Did you just
drop this on the table? Is this a PSA 10? - [Ken] No, it's a PSA 8. - I have never ever opened these before, but these are Topps' Formula 1 cards. Now, I'd say about half the
people in this room right now are pretty big Formula 1 fans. - [Matt] Hmm. - The other half is
Matt and he's not cool. - How am I weighted 50%
of this room right now? What are you trying to imply there? - This is not a cheap box. How much did this box cost? - [Matt] I believe that was $350? - [Ken] Something like that, yes. - Alright, the seal has
been broken, friends. - [Matt] Now you gonna be going
to the bathroom all night. (casual music) - Alright, I have the odds. A foil refractor card is 1/11,000. - [Matt] Oh my God. (laughing) - Another one's 1/25,000. These odds are ridiculous. - [Matt] They're slightly better than me getting a girlfriend. - [Ken] Married or not married? (Matt laughing) - Alright, let's go for a 1/20,000. We're gonna get rich
today, boys, I can feel it. (casual music continues) We've got ourselves Richard Verschoor. Matteo Nannini. - [Matt] What, wait, what? That just sounds like someone's forgetting
how to say my name. - We're gonna get something today. - So, this is a one-of one, so you just pulled a one-of one. - One-of one! - Oh! Kimi 1/1! Retirement season? Let's go! - Does that mean I get a bonus today? - Careful, careful, careful! - I'm looking. - Don't breathe to hard on it! So, you think that card
paid for the whole box? - Probably, yeah. I mean, it's 1/1, right? - Shoot. - Good thing I get a $10,000 bonus today. - [Ken] I call dibs on this one. - What one? There's no item! Okay, you can tell that Ken cares 'cause he's actually walking it over. Are these San Rio Hello
Kitty/ Razer collabs? - [Ken] Yes! - I'm about it. Let's go! Alright, so we've got the Razer Kraken BT "Hello
Kitty and Friends" Edition. And then, we've got the Razer Goliathus Mouse
Mat and DeathAdder Essential. - [Matt] That is a mouthful. - I literally know none of
these except for Hello Kitty. - [Matt] Cinnamoroll! - Oh wait, what's the little
grumpy dude on the side? - [Matt] Matt. (everyone laughing) - This is the DeathAdder Essential, which I know is there lower-end mouse. In fact, I think this is actually what the Pikachu mouse we
looked at was based on. It's fine?
(clicking mouse) I think I'm a little bit
more excited for the headset. Well, I'm looking forward to this screenshot being on the internet for the rest of the time. Behold, my friends, the
Hello Kitty headset. - [Matt] Oh, let's go. - Hello, Austin. - [Matt] Why are you talking to yourself? - [Joanna] Hey girls,
this is Austin. (laughing) (everyone laughing) - It sounds a little sus, but I like it. Wait, wait, stop the show, stop the show. - [Matt] What, what,
what, what, what, what? It's a micro USB, isn't it? - It's a micro USB. - [Joanna] No! - A micro USB. They spit directly in our faces. - Oh! Let's go! So, you know what the issue
that I have with this is? They use the base of the Kraken Kitty. 'Cause the ears look the same, but it's like a molded version of it. And so, I think they also compromise the
inner lining a little bit, so it's like hard. (gentle piano music) - The voice is the worst. It's literally like,
"Bluetooth is connecting." It's not even Hello Kitty
being like "Bluetooth, yay!" - Nah, I- - "Bluetooth!" I'm gonna watch episode seven of "Hello Kitty and Friends:
Supercute Adventures." (gentle piano music continues) (laughing) Oh boy! Oh, no one can hear what
I'm hearing right now, that's kinda awkward, isn't it? (magical music) - I'll call them
Cinnamoroll cinnamon rolls! - These don't sound good. (laughing) I think the design of these headphones has actively made them worse headphones. - The mouse pad I'll take. I don't even want the mouse, I just kinda want the
mouse pad. (laughing)