On September 28, 2022, Hurricane Ian made 
landfall on the western coast of Florida as   a Category 4 storm, bringing enormous volumes 
of rainfall and extreme winds to the state. Ian was the deadliest hurricane to hit 
Florida since 1935. Over 100 people died   as a result of flooding and over 2 million 
people lost power at some point during the   storm. The fierce winds that sucked water out 
of Tampa Bay, also forced storm surge inland on   the south side of the hurricane, causing 
the sea to swell upwards of 13 feet or 4   meters above high-tide. And that doesn’t 
include the height of the crashing waves. One of the worst hit parts of the state became 
a symbol for the hurricane’s destruction:   the barrier island of Sanibel off the 
coast of Fort Myers. The island’s single   connection to the mainland, the Sanibel 
Causeway, was devastated by Hurricane Ian   to the point where it was completely 
impassable to vehicles. Incredibly,   two weeks after hiring a contractor to perform 
repairs, the causeway was back open to traffic.   But this fix might not last as long as you’d 
expect. How did they do it? And why can’t all   road work be finished so quickly? Let’s 
discuss. I’m Grady, and this is Practical   Engineering. In today’s episode, we’re talking 
about the Sanibel Causeway Hurricane Repairs. What is a causeway anyway? You might think 
the only two options to get a road across   a body of water are a bridge or a tunnel, 
but there’s actually a third option. You   can build an embankment from compacted soil or 
rock that sits directly on the seabed and then   construct a roadway on top of that. A path along 
reclaimed land like this is called a causeway,   and the one between Fort Meyers and Sanibel 
Island in Florida was first built in 1963 and   rebuilt in 2007. But, a causeway has a major 
limitation compared to a bridge or tunnel:   it doesn’t allow crossing of maritime traffic 
because it divides the waterway in two. So,   the Sanibel Causeway has some bridges. And 
actually, for a structure called a causeway,   it’s mostly bridges, three to be exact. Bridges 
C and B are long, multi-span structures that sit   relatively low above the water. Bridge A, closest 
to the mainland, is a high-span structure to allow   for tall sailboats to pass underneath. Islands 
1 and 2 are the actual causeway parts of the   causeway where the road sits at grade (or on the 
ground). Overall, the causeway is about 3 miles   or 5 kilometers long, carries over three million 
vehicles a year, on average, and, critically, is   the only way to drive a vehicle on or off Sanibel 
Island, which is home to about 6,000 people. Each of the two causeway islands serves as a 
county park with beaches and places for fishing.   The islands aren’t natural. They were built up in 
the 1960s by dredging sand and silt from the bay   and piling it up above the water level. It’s 
pretty easy to see this on the aerial photos   of the islands. They really are just slender 
stretches of dredged sediment sitting in the   middle of the bay. But, they didn’t pile the 
sediment that high above the water. The top of   the roadway along the islands is only around 7 
feet or 2 meters above sea level. And here’s the   thing about sand and silt. If you look at the 
range of earthen materials by particle size,   the large ones like gravel and even coarse sand 
don’t erode quickly because they’re heavy, and the   tiny ones like clay don’t erode quickly either 
because they’re sticky (they have cohesion),   but right in the middle are the fine sands 
and silts that aren’t heavy or sticky,   so they easily wash away. The storm surge and 
waves brought on by Hurricane Ian breached   both of the causeway islands, violently 
eroding huge volumes of sand out to sea and   leaving the roadways on top completely 
destroyed. But that wasn’t the only damage. In between the island sections of roadway and 
the bridges are the approach ramps: compacted   soil structures that transition from the low 
causeway islands up to and down from the elevated   sections. Instead of using traditional earthen 
embankments as the approaches for each bridge,   the 2007 project included retaining walls 
built using mechanically stabilized earth,   or MSE. I have a few videos about how these 
walls work you can check out after this if   you want to learn more. Basically, reinforcing 
elements within the soil allow the slopes to   stand vertically on the bridge approaches, 
saving precious space on the small causeway   islands and reducing the total load on the 
dredged sand below each approach. Concrete   panels are used as a facing system to protect the 
vulnerable earthen structures from erosion. But,   you know, these are meant to protect against 
rainfall and strong winds, not hurricane force   waves and 10 foot storm surge. With the full 
force of Hurricane Ian bearing down on them,   three of the causeway’s approach ramps were 
heavily damaged. The one on the mainland side,   and the ones on the north side of each causeway 
island. The bridges themselves largely withstood   the hurricane with minimal damage, thanks to 
good engineering. But, with the approaches   and causeway sections ruined, Sanibel Island 
was completely cut off from vehicle access,   making rescue operations, power grid repairs, 
and resupplies practically impossible. Within only a few days of the hurricane’s 
passing, state and county officials managed to   pull together a procurement package to solicit 
a contractor for the repairs. On October 10,   they announced their pick of Superior Construction 
and Ajax Paving and their target completion date   of October 31st. Construction crews immediately 
sprang into action with a huge mobilization of   resources, including hundreds of trucks, earth 
moving machines, cranes, barges, dredges,   and more than 150 people. Major sections 
of the job were inaccessible by vehicle,   so crews and equipment had to be ferried to 
various damaged locations along the causeway.   The power was still out in many places, and 
cell phone and internet coverage were spotty.   Even coordinating meals and places to 
sleep for the crew was a challenge. For the most part, the repairs were earthwork 
projects, replacing the lost soil and sand along   the causeway islands and bridge approaches. A 
lot of the material was dredged back from the   seabed to rebuild each of the two islands, but 
over 2,000 loads of rock and 4,000 tons (3,600   metric tons) of asphalt were brought in from the 
mainland. Just coordinating that many crews and   resources was an enormous challenge both for FDOT 
and the contractor. Both made extensive use of   drones to track the quantities of materials being 
transported and placed and to keep an eye on the   progress across the 3-mile-long construction 
site. Progress continued at a breakneck pace   at each of the damaged areas of the causeway 
to bring the subgrade back up to the correct   level. Once the eroded soil was replaced, all 
the damaged sections were paved with asphalt   to provide a durable driving surface. With 
the incredible effort and hard work of the   contractor and its crews, the designers, FDOT 
and their representatives, emergency responders,   relief workers, and many more, the causeway 
was reopened to the public on October 19th,   a short 15 days after the project started and well 
ahead of the original estimated completion date. You might be wondering, “If they can fix 
a hurricane-damaged road in two weeks,   why does the road construction along my commute 
last for years?” And it’s a good question,   because you actually sacrifice quite a lot to get 
road work done so quickly. First, you sacrifice   the quality of the work. And that's not a dig 
on the contractor, but a simple reality of the   project. These temporary repairs aren’t built 
to last; they’re built to a bare minimum level   needed to get vehicles safely across the bay. Look 
closely and you won’t see the conveniences and   safety features of modern roadways like pavement 
markings and stripes, guard rails, or shoulders. These embankments constructed as bridge approaches 
are also not permanent. Something happens when you   make a big pile of soil like this (even if you do 
a good job with compaction and keeping the soil   moisture content just right): it settles. Over 
time and under the weight of the embankment,   the grains of soil compress together and force 
out water, causing the top of the embankment   to sink. But the bridge sits on piles that 
aren’t subjected to these same forces. So,   over time, you end up with a mismatch in 
elevation between the approach and bridge.   If you’ve ever felt a bump going up to or 
off a bridge, you know what I mean. In fact,   this is one of the many reasons why you might see 
a construction site sitting empty. They’re waiting   for the embankments to settle before paving the 
roadway. Oftentimes, a concrete approach slab is   used to try and bridge the gap that forms over 
time, but I don’t see any approach slabs in the   photos of the repair projects. That means it’s 
likely these approaches will have to be replaced   or repaired fairly soon. In addition, the slopes 
of the approaches are just bare soil right now,   susceptible to erosion and weathering until 
they get protected with grass or hard armoring. The other sacrifice you make for a fast-track 
project like this is cost. We don’t know the   details of the contract right now, but just 
looking at all the equipment at the site,   we know it wasn’t cheap. It’s expensive to 
mobilize and operate that much heavy equipment,   and the rental fees come due whether they sit 
idle or not. It’s expensive to pay overtime crews   to maintain double shifts. It’s expensive 
to get priority from material suppliers,   equipment rentals, work crews, fuel, et cetera, 
especially in a setting like a hurricane   recovery where all those things are already in 
exceptionally high demand. And, it’s expensive to   keep people and equipment on standby so that they 
can start working as soon as the crew before them   is finished. Put simply, we pay a major premium 
for fast-tracked construction and an even bigger   one for emergency repairs where the conditions 
require significant resources under high demands. Of course, it wasn’t just the roadways damaged 
on Sanibel Island. The power infrastructure and   many many buildings were damaged or destroyed as 
well. And it wasn't just Sanibel Island affected,   but huge swaths of coastal Florida too (including 
nearby Pine Island that had an emergency bridge   project of its own). There’s a long way to go to 
restore not just the roadway to Sanibel Island,   but also the island itself. And that will 
involve a lot of tough decisions about where,   how much, and how strong to rebuild. 
After all, Sanibel is a barrier island,   a constantly changing deposit of sand formed 
by wind and waves. These islands are critical   to protecting mainland coasts by absorbing wave 
energy and bearing the brunt of storms. In fact,   many consider barrier islands to be critical 
infrastructure, but development on the islands   negates that critical purpose. That doesn’t mean 
the community doesn’t belong there; nearly every   developed area is subject to disproportionate risk 
from some kind of destructive natural phenomenon.   But it does obligate the planners and engineers 
involved in rebuilding to be thoughtful about the   impacts hurricanes can have and how infrastructure 
can be made more resilient to them in the future. This is our last video of 2022. We 
did videos on power grid failures,   sewage infrastructure, groundwater, 
a three-episode series on rust,   and a lot more. And we couldn’t have done any of 
it without you. So from the bottom of my heart,   thank you, for making this silly idea of a 
YouTube channel about infrastructure a reality. If you want to continue learning about 
infrastructure, my new book, Engineering   in Plain Sight, is a field guide to nearly every 
part of the built environment. You can pick up a   copy anywhere books are sold, but there are still 
signed copies available at my website, along with   some really cool t-shirts too. Purchases from 
the store go directly toward supporting the   channel. Link in the description below. Thank 
you for watching, and we’ll see you in 2023.