Since 2011, the Russian energy corporation Gazprom 
and a group of large investors have been working   on one of the longest and highest capacity 
offshore gas pipelines in the world. The Nord   Stream 2 is a pair of large-diameter natural gas 
pipelines running along the bottom of the Baltic   Sea from the Russian coast near St Petersburg to 
the northern coast of Germany near Greifswald.   Planning, design, and construction of Nord Stream 
2 was mired in political controversy not only   because of climate-related apprehensions over new 
fossil fuel infrastructure but also over concerns   that the pipeline could be used as a geopolitical 
weapon by Russia against other European countries.   Still, construction began in 2016 and 
finished 5 years later at the end of 2021. As the German government worked toward 
certifying the pipeline to begin operation,   Russia launched a military invasion of Ukraine. 
This unjustified and unconscionable attack on   a sovereign nation has received widespread 
international condemnation followed up with a   litany of sanctions on Russia and its most senior 
leaders. Part of the response included Germany   halting the certification of this divisive, 
ten-billion-dollar megaproject. As of this   video’s production, the invasion of Ukraine is 
ongoing and future international relations between   Russia and most of the developed world 
are unlikely to improve any time soon. The U.S. put sanctions on the company in charge 
of the pipeline and its senior officers. The   project’s website has been taken offline, and 
most of the employees have been fired or quit.   These circumstances raise plenty of questions: 
How do you install a pipeline at the bottom of   the Baltic Sea? Why is this line so important 
to geopolitics? And what does the future hold   for what may be the world’s most controversial 
infrastructure project? I’m Grady, and this   is Practical Engineering. In today's episode, 
we’re talking about the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. Like its predecessor, Nord Stream, the 
goal of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline is to   provide a direct connection between the 
vast reserves of natural gas in Russia   and the energy-hungry markets of Europe. With 
a length of 1,230 kilometers or 764 miles each,   the twin pipes pass through the territorial waters 
or economic exclusion zones of five countries:   the two landfall nations of Russia and Germany 
as well as Finland, Sweden, and Denmark.   Also like its predecessor, the Nord Stream 
2 is owned by a subsidiary of Gazprom   (a Russian-state-owned enterprise and one 
of the largest companies in the world) and   financed by a coterie of other international oil 
and gas firms. The project has a long, complex,   and controversial history. This video is meant to 
highlight the engineering details of the project,   but in this case, the politics can’t be ignored. 
I’ll do my best to hit the high points, but check   out some of the more comprehensive journalism on 
the subject before you form any strong opinions. Even before construction began, Nord Stream 2 had 
some massive obstacles to overcome. The Baltic is   one of the world's most polluted seas, and all 
the countries around it have a vested interest   in making sure those conditions don’t 
worsen. Pipeline construction can create   harmful levels of underwater noise, affect 
fisheries, disrupt water quality, and even   impact the cultural heritage of shipwrecks 
along the seafloor. Each country along the   route imposed strict environmental requirements 
before construction permits would be issued. The   planning phase for the pipeline involved detailed 
underwater surveys of the seabed to help choose   the most feasible route along the way. This 
survey also helped identify unexploded ordinances   from World Wars 1 and 2. Where possible, the 
pipeline was routed around these munitions,   but in some cases they had to be detonated in 
place. When this was done, the contractors used   bubble curtains around each explosion to 
mitigate the noise impacts on marine life. The logistics of producing so much 
pipe was also a huge challenge. The   pipe sections used for the Nord Stream 2 
were about 1150 mm or 45 inches in diameter   and 12 meters or 40 feet long. They started out as 
steel plates that were rolled into pipe sections,   welded, stretched, beveled, and inspected 
for quality. An interior epoxy anti-friction   coating was applied to minimize the pressure 
losses in the extremely long line. Then an   exterior coating was applied to protect against 
corrosion in the harsh saltwater environment.   And the entire project required manufacture of 
more than 200,000 of these pipe sections. That’s   an average production rate of nearly 100 pipe 
sections per day spread between three suppliers. Each pipe section was transported by rail to a 
port in Finland or Germany to receive another   exterior coating, this time of concrete. This 
concrete weight coating was applied to increase   the pipeline’s stability on the seabed. Doubling 
the weight of each pipe from 12 to 24 metric tons,   the concrete would help resist the buoyancy 
and underwater currents that could move the   line over time. It also provided mechanical 
protection during handling, transport,   pipelay, and for long-term exposure 
along the seabed. After weight coating,   the pipes were shipped to storage 
yards along the coast where they would   eventually be transported by ship to large 
pipelay vessels working in the Baltic Sea. These pipelay vessels were floating 
factories employing hundreds of workers each,   and the Nord Stream 2 project had up to 5 
working simultaneously. On the largest vessels,   the basic process for pipelaying was 
first to weld two pipe sections together   to create what’s called a double-joint. 
These welds got a detailed inspection,   and if they passed, the double-joint moved to 
a central assembly line to be connected to the   main pipe string. There you got more welding 
and inspection. If everything checked out,   a heat-shrink sleeve was placed around each 
weld, and then polyurethane foam poured into a   mold between the concrete coatings to further 
protect against corrosion while allowing the   pipe string to flex during placement. Once 
complete, the vessel could advance a little   further along the route while lowering the 
pipeline into its final position. This was   a 24/7 operation and some of these pipelay 
vessels could complete 3 kilometers in a day. In many locations, they could just lay pipe 
directly on the seabed. It was smooth enough to   keep the line from deflecting too much and soft 
enough to avoid damage to the pipes. However,   that wasn’t the case along the entire route. 
In some shallow waters where the pipelines   were exposed to hydrodynamic forces like waves 
and currents, the lines were placed in excavated   trenches and backfilled. There were also many 
areas along the route that were rugged enough   to create free spans of unsupported pipeline. 
Fallpipe vessels were deployed ahead of the   pipe installation to fill depressions with rock 
and gravel to provide a smoother path along the   seabed for the line. Finally, at locations 
where the Nord Stream 2 lines would cross   other subsea cables or pipes like power, 
telecommunications cables and other pipelines,   rock mattresses were installed to 
protect each utility at the intersection. Each end of the pipeline came with a tremendous 
amount of infrastructure as well. At the German   landfall, the pipe was tunneled onshore to the 
receiving station. This facility includes shut   down valves, filters, preheaters, and pressure 
reduction equipment to allow gas to be delivered   into the European natural gas grid. Both 
facilities also included equipment for   Pipeline Inspection Gauges (also known 
as PIGs). These devices are launched   from Russia into each pipeline, pushed 
along by the gas pressure for the entire   1,200 kilometer journey. The PIGs scan for 
problems like corrosion or mechanical damage   and collect data that can be downloaded when 
they reach the end of the line in Germany. Installing multiple sections of pipe 
simultaneously sped up construction of the line,   but it created a serious challenge as well. How 
do you connect segments of pipe that have already   been installed along the seabed? That’s the job 
of maybe the most impressive operation of the   entire project: the above water tie in or AWTI. 
The separate sections of pipeline were carefully   installed on the seabed so their ends overlapped. 
When it came time to tie them together, first   divers installed buoyancy tanks to each end to 
make them easier to lift. Then davit cranes along   the side of the tie-in vessel attached to each 
pipe and lifted their ends above the waterline.   These ends didn’t have a concrete weight coating 
to make them lighter and able to be cut to the   exact length needed. The pipes were cut and 
beveled, welded, tested, and coated for corrosion   protection. Finally, the tie-in vessel could 
lay the complete pipe back down on the seafloor,   forming a small horizontal arc off the main 
alignment where divers removed the buoyancy   tanks and detached the cranes. The Nord Stream 
2 required several above water tie-ins during   construction. It seems simple enough, but each 
one took about three weeks to complete. The final   AWTI was completed in September 2021, marking 
the end of construction of the Nord Stream 2. Although Europe is in the midst of a major 
transition away from fossil fuels to renewable   sources, the demand for natural gas is still 
high and expected to remain that way for the   foreseeable future. In addition, Germany is 
planning to shutter the last 3 of its nuclear   plants by the end of 2022, using natural gas as 
a bridge toward the expansion of wind and solar.   With gas demands remaining consistently 
high, many fear that the Nord Stream and   Nord Stream 2 pipelines put Russia in 
a position to exert political influence   over its European neighbors. Nord Stream 2 
would also allow more Russian gas to bypass   Ukraine, depriving it of the transit fees 
it gets from gas lines through its borders. As early as 2016, politicians in various 
countries around the world were coming   out in opposition to the project. The U.S. 
played a large role in trying to delay or stop   Nord Stream 2 altogether with sanctions on the 
ships involved in construction plus a host of   Russian companies while carefully avoiding serious 
impacts to the contractors of its German ally.   U.S. President Biden waived those sanctions in 
mid-2021 in a bid to improve US-German relations,   but the Russian invasion of Ukraine changed 
everything. The U.S. immediately reimposed   the sanctions and Germany froze certification of 
the project. The Nord Stream 2 company has been   mostly silent so far, but there aren’t many 
good outcomes of spending $10B on design and   construction of a pipeline that can’t be used. 
Most news sources appear to agree that they are   completely insolvent and have fired all their 
employees. In addition, most of the non-Russian   companies involved in the project have already 
written off their investments and walked away. This simple pipeline highlights the tremendous 
complexity of infrastructure and geopolitics.   It can be extremely difficult for a normal citizen 
to know what they stand to gain or lose from a   project like this. We want cheap energy. We want 
warm homes during the winter. But we don’t want   the global climate to change. And we definitely 
don’t want an unpredictable and misguided   authoritarian leader to hold a major portion of 
Europe’s gas supplies hostage for political gains.   In some ways, Putin’s invasion of Ukraine 
simplified these complex issues because   it gave Germany and the US no 
choice but to kill the project.   There’s a lot of uncertainty right now with how 
the conflict will end and what the world will   look like when the dust settles. But it seems 
doubtful now that the Nord Stream 2 - this   incredible achievement of engineering, logistics, 
and maritime construction - will ever be anything   more than an empty tube of steel and 
concrete at the bottom of the Baltic Sea   (and maybe that’s for the best). Thank you 
for watching and let me know what you think.