- Gaming is getting out of control. For a long time, it has been a very
straightforward process. Some new shiny piece of
gaming hardware comes out. It's twice as fast as last generation. Maybe cost a few dollars more, but you can reliably assume
that it's gonna become cheaper and cheaper throughout the life cycle. And the next version is gonna come out, it's gonna be even better. And that just keeps rinsing
and repeating forever. But I don't think that's
what's happening anymore. Now it's easy to point at some of the more egregious examples. They're just super obvious, right? Like Sony raising the price of the PS5, look at the Meta Quest 2, what, a year or two after it comes out getting a hundred dollar
price increase, right? Like that's weird. That's obvious. You can see that. But I think the more insidious thing is what's happening under our very noses. So let's talk PCs for a minute. Obviously I have quite the
history of building gaming PCs and when I was really in my
sort of prime PC building days in 2013, 2014, 2015, it was easy to build a cheap gaming pc. You could spend 100,
$200 on a graphics card, it would be completely fine. Those days have been
crushed into the ground not only by the wave of chip
shortages and crypto mining but also just in the simple fact that these things have
gotten wildly more expensive just at MSRP. When you're talking about
$1,600 for an RTX 4090, that is outrageous and that is absurd. But you know what? That makes everything else
look normal in comparison. Think about the new Radeon 7900 XTX. This is a card that delivers
really solid performance and it does it at hundreds of dollars less than the competition. How much does this cost? $1,000. Now, in a vacuum that's crazy town, that you're spending $1,000 for an upper mid-range graphics card. I mean, it's good, but it's not the best. But when you look at it
compared to a $1,600 card, seems reasonable, right? You're saving money, but it's all because you've
changed the perspective. I feel like I'm getting my crazy hands on. You're changing this perspective of what you think is
normal and reasonable. It's so easy to think that,
" Oh, this doesn't affect me. This is not my problem. I'm just gonna buy a
mid-range graphics card. Or I'm just gonna buy a console or I'm gonna play cloud gaming." Actually, if you play cloud gaming it doesn't really affect you. But if you're literally
any other kind of gamer this does affect you. And I think it's one of those
things where it's insidious because you don't really realize it. It's like the frog who gets slowly boiled as you turn up the heat on
the water and you're like, "This is fine. It's kind of hot in here. I didn't notice it." Oh, a hundred dollars more for
my PlayStation 5 is normal? This kind of stuff isn't the way that tech has traditionally worked. In the past, the calculus was very simple. Something would come out,
it would become better, cheaper and faster over time. But now what we're seeing is to hit meaningful
performance improvements, you are not just spending
another 50 bucks or 100 bucks, you're spending hundreds of dollars, and even then you're
not necessarily getting those huge leaps that
we've expected in the past. - [Matt] Are you boiling frogs alive? - I don't boil frogs, but I'll tell you that if you jump into boiling
water, you'll notice it. But if you're sitting in the hot tub and the heat is slowly being cranked up, you're gonna find like,
"Oh, this is comfortable. Oh, this is nice. Is someone peeing in the water? Oh it's getting really warm." And then you're like boiled
alive cuz you didn't realize it. That's you, gamers. It's time to rise up. Why is this happening? Well, as with pretty much
everything in the world there's not a super simple
straightforward answer but there are a few key things that are pushing things in my opinion, very much in the wrong direction. First and the most obvious
is inflation supply chain. The stuff that is basically
affecting the entire world over the last few years. I mean, there's a simple fact that a dollar don't stretch
as far as it used to, but on top of that, you gotta consider that if
you're manufacturing products you've gotta make sure that
people can actually make them. Then they can put them
together, they can ship them. All of those costs have risen quite a lot which does explain things like the PS5 and the Quest costing more, right? It simply costs more to make these things than it did two, three years ago. Then there's the simple fact that it is incredibly complicated and expensive to develop games, right? I mean, just how it gets harder and harder to develop chips that are
more and more powerful. So too, does it become
more and more difficult and expensive to develop a game which is incredibly well supported, has amazing graphics, that's super
well battle tested. All this stuff costs money. So what can we actually do about this? Well, the good thing is
there are still good deals and smart decisions you can make to become a well-rounded
gamer and enjoy titles and enjoy the latest and
greatest for years to come. Now the first and most obvious will be, of course, build a pc. That's the smart move all the time, right? While at the moment I'm pretty concerned about what this next generation of graphics cards are gonna cost, but you could still build a PC that will give you years of enjoyment, fairly straightforward. Makes sense, right? Or maybe we could buy ourselves a console. You could get yourself a PS5 for a little more than it used
to and it does the same thing and there's probably gonna
be a PS5 Slim coming, but that's an option right now. I think what might make
a little bit more sense to look at the Xbox side of things because the prices a, have
stayed the same on the Series X and it is fairly readily available. Or you can look at the Series S, which has actually seen a price cut. But if you're thinking about,
oh, I want to get into gaming I wanna make sure that I'm
buying a piece of hardware that is going to last
for years in the future. The Series S for 250 bucks
is a very reasonable bet or you can get a little bit more spicy. There's this little thing
called the Steam Deck which has very much been a success when you look at this year
as far as gaming hardware. This is a fully self-contained unit, you don't have to buy an extra TV or controllers or anything like that. That's actually a very,
very respectable choice and I think it's a big
reason why the Steam Deck has seen the success that it has, is because for 400 bucks
you really can't beat it when it comes to performance. The problem though, on
top of just the fact that and this is much more of a personal take, so, you know, don't get upset, but that Steam Deck's
too big, just to be real. The Steam Deck is way too big. Now I get that it's
relatively comfortable, it's got lots of controls, there's a lot of good
things with the Steam Deck. I'm not saying anything about that. But for me, the Steam Deck while is a very respectable option. I don't necessarily feel great
about it for the long term which leads me to, and I cannot believe
I'm about to say this, the solution to all of our problems. The one piece of gaming hardware that is very low on compromise, that has stayed incredibly cheap, cheaper than anything
else I've mentioned today. And that has a massive game library that continues to grow every single day. The solution, my friends, the Switch Lite. Yeah, you heard me right. The best new piece of gaming hardware you can get your hands on right now is a three-year-old, $200 basic version of the Nintendo Switch. So that might be a
little bit of a hot take but hear me out here, cuz I actually think that
there are some real merits to the Switch Lite. First and foremost being the price. $200 is a price that you just simply cannot
get anything else for. I mean the Series S is
the closest like $250, although it is on a temporary sale, but for 250 bucks you still need the TV, you still need extra stuff,
you may need extra memory cards whatever the case is. The Switch Lite you can buy it and be completely happy standalone or spend $20 and throw a microSD card in. And while the Series S does play pretty much all Xbox games, you are playing it in a little bit more
of a limited capacity. And yes, absolutely, the biggest downside of the Switch Lite is the fact that you
cannot play it in dock mode like you can with a traditional Switch. And depending on who you are, that may or may not be a big problem. For me, as someone who very
much games on portable devices and almost never needs to dock, that is actually not
only not a huge downside. There are actually some upsides to choosing the Switch Lite hardware over the traditional Switch. First and foremost for me is size. Now I get it, you're listening to a guy
who's a little bit weird, who likes holding flippy phones and small devices and
other things in my hands. But the thing with the Switch Lite is that it is the smallest
device on this entire list. It is the cheapest, and I think it's actually the
best version of the Switch. My daily console, the thing
that I play most often is my Switch Lite, which again is three
years old at this point. You know what's really funny about this is that the reason the Switch
Lite is the deal that it is is because Nintendo are doing
their completely own thing. The spec of the Switch Lite, yeah, that's running a 2015
mobile Nvidia processor. Yeah, sure they've updated it, it's a little bit more
efficient and whatnot, but the performance level
of this is not high. And yet what Nintendo
have done is they have an absolutely enormous
library of terrific games which have been incredibly well
optimized for the hardware. And while the Switch is not powerful by any stretch of the imagination, it is good enough to play a surprisingly wide variety of games, including some fairly new AAA stuff. Now for downsides, it is not fully compatible
with all Switch games. There are a few titles that really do require
Joy-Cons which means that, while they will technically
work on the Switch Lite, you'll need to actually buy
an extra set of Joy-Cons or sometimes like a Pro Controller and obviously games that are
more multiplayer in nature. You're probably not
gonna do an eight-person Smash Tournament on your Switch Lite. Well, if you do, props my friend. That's pretty impressive. But to me the smaller size is a big win. Also, there's smaller things like just, I don't like using a Switch
with the Joy-Cons attached. To me that sort of, it feels creaky, it feels like a little bit of that flex. Whereas the Switch Lite
is a single-piece unit that is all fully contained. And on top of that, that
smaller screen I think actually pays dividends when it comes to playing
a lot of mobile games, because yeah, you can plug in
your Switch OLED to the TV and look at 480p blown up on a 4K TV. Oh boy, that's a great experience. Or I can play on a small
5.5 inch, 720p screen, which is way, way more
forgiving on some of the, shall we say, potato-like graphics that you can sometimes
run it into on the Switch. I'm way, way more okay with
that on the smaller display. I'm not saying that the Switch Lite is the console for everybody,
obviously not, right? But I think a lot of people
have completely been sleeping on the Switch Lite, when in fact, I think it is a terrific
value proposition. And honestly, it might be the best Switch you can buy right now, especially if you have
an older Switch, right? I think a lot of people
have like maybe a 2017 model of the Switch, the
battery's starting to die. You could always leave that
thing on the dock or whatever. But as far as the actual portable console to carry with you every day,
the Switch Lite is way smaller than the Switch or the Steam Deck, has better battery life
than the Steam Deck. And in my opinion, it is just a nicer
overall piece of hardware. I know that's a little controversial cause it doesn't have all the
bells and whistles and stuff, but for me I like the small size and I like the fact
that it doesn't get loud and hot in my hand. It's just, I'm telling you,
I'm getting fired up right now. But the Switch Lite is such a good device and to see gaming evolving
at the pace that it's at, prices ballooning to astronomical figures left, right and center, and yet you got this little Switch Lite that no one pays attention to, which I think is absolutely
one of the uncovered gems, I almost said uncut gems,
that's not quite right, one of the uncovered
gems of the gaming space. Look, I get that my bias is showing, cuz I'm perfectly happy
to play my Pokemon games on my Switch Lite in
portable mode forever, right? Like, that's not everyone.
I fully understand that. But if you look at the overall
state of gaming right now, it is both vibrant and has massive storm
clouds on the horizon, because the games that we are
seeing right now are amazing. The art that developers are crafting is truly something that
we have never seen. And I think we're gonna
look back on these years as some of the best for gaming ever. But on the flip side, the costs associated
with some of this stuff, not only from the gaming perspective, but also the hardware that companies are trying to develop to keep on the cutting edge, is quickly getting out of control. And I don't think there's
a good answer here, right? I mean, you could take
the Nintendo approach of we don't need that
latest and greatest hardware all the time. Maybe we take our foot
off the gas a little bit, focus on trying to deliver something which is actually affordable right? That's a reasonable solution, but it doesn't push the industry forward. And the traditional stuff that has pushed the industry forward has gotten so bananas, so disconnected from reality that I really wonder where it lands. Like are we all just gonna
accept $1,000 graphics cards? Are we all just gonna accept that consoles are gonna be 7-, 8-, $900, maybe, or maybe we all
buy ourselves a Series S, a Steam Deck or a Switch Lite and we live our happy little lives not knowing the true
potential of piles of money and effortless resources.