Nintendo is one of Japan's most famous 
companies. Founded over a hundred years ago,   the company has helped create some of our 
most treasured childhood gaming memories.   I remember playing Super Mario 64, 
trying to collect those 120 stars.   Getting up early in the morning to play Diddy 
Kong Racing. Rushing home to play Goldeneye 007. Good memories. But I am not going 
to talk about the Nintendo 64 today.   Instead I am going to talk about a later 
Nintendo product: the weirdly named Wii. Introduced in 2006, the Nintendo Wii began as 
a bold move. Zigging where everyone else was   zagging. And at first it worked brilliantly. 
By 2013, it had sold over 100 million units.   But the market changed and the innovative 
strategy ran out of gas. Unlike the N64 or   the PS2, the console is largely forgotten - 
collecting dust in living rooms everywhere. This video is about the Wii's rise and fall. Nintendo began developing what would eventually 
become the Wii in the wake of the GameCube.   The GameCube was Nintendo's attempt to retake 
share lost during the Nintendo 64 generation. It failed in that aspect. The GameCube's 
target audience was too young - ages 7-16.   Core gamers thought it was "toy-ish". It 
used a proprietary optical disc format,   while the competing PlayStation 2 doubled as a DVD 
player. And it could not connect to the Internet. The PS2 won the generation with over 155 
million units sold. The console is still   the best-selling game console of all time. The 
GameCube ... uhh sold far fewer than that number. The game console market was more competitive in 
2003 than it was at the start of the century. Tech   giant Microsoft had entered the fray 
with the Xbox, challenging Sony's   Playstation in technical specs and capturing a 
significant share of the "core gamer" market.   Competing in the technical arms race between Sony 
and Microsoft seemed more challenging than ever. There was some good news. Nintendo still 
had a strong grip of the handheld market   with the Game Boy Advance and its follow up, the 
Nintendo DS. The resounding success of the DS,   with its 150 million units sold, 
got Nintendo management thinking. Nintendo decided to turn a weakness 
into a strength. Right from the start,   they leaned into the argument that the Wii 
would not be as powerful as its competitors. Then-CEO Satoru Iwata said it best: > While some people put their money on the screen, 
we decided to put ours into the game experience The Wii's CPU power was nowhere near that of 
its console competitors. The Wii had a 729   MHz processor from IBM - less than a third of 
the 3.2 GHz processors in the PS3 and Xbox360. It did not have big hard drives. The Xbox 
had removable hard drives up to 1 TB large.   The PS3 had a 40 GB hard drive. The Wii 
had just 512 MB of internal flash memory,   not counting SD card storage. The Wii did not have HD 
video. It maxed out at 480p.   It could not play DVDs nor could 
it put out Dolby 5.1 sound.   The PS3 did more than just play DVDs, it can 
play Blu-Rays too. And while the Wii did have   some online capabilities, it paled compared to 
the sophistication of Xbox Live and the like. But what the Wii did have going for it 
was that it was motion controllable,   family oriented, and offered something new. Nintendo targeted the Wii as the 
console for gamers of all ages,   genders and cultural backgrounds. Its 
small size, compact look and low price   (30% lower than the competition) made 
it low risk for families to try out. The company targeted non-traditional gamers 
outside of the core gamer demographic.   To be more specific, women and 
seniors over the age of 60.   The first advertisements featured a number of 
different demographics playing and enjoying the   Wii at home. A later TV campaign featured British 
actress Helen Mirren, 65 years old at the time. The games themselves reflected this 
strategy. Nintendo's early Wii games   featured easy-to-play titles 
like Brain Training and Wii Fit.   The console itself included the sports simulation 
game Wii Sports, where players would use the   "Wiimote" motion controller to mimic real 
life sports actions like swinging a racket.   Wii Sports sold 80 million copies 
and is Nintendo's best selling game. In business school, this strategy is referred 
to as the "Blue Ocean Strategy". The idea   of the blue ocean is that all companies 
decide in which ocean they want to swim.   Red oceans are bloody, super-competitive 
markets. People compete on the basis of price,   quality and customer service. They 
struggle to stand out from the crowd. Blue oceans on the other hand are unknown 
markets where things are not as well defined.   Companies in a blue ocean strategy 
are offering something brand new,   and can sail on with little to 
no competition. Smooth sailing. Nintendo's Blue Ocean strategy succeeded 
wildly. At least at the beginning. The Wii outsold its competitors right 
from the start. Its November 2006   launch was Nintendo's biggest ever 
in the Americas, Japan, and Europe.   The company sold 3.2 million units worldwide 
before the year was out despite extensive   shortages and was working hard to meet demand. 
Shortages would continue into the following year. The Wii received praise for making 
games more accessible to casual users.   Researchers found a variety of unexpected 
applications for the Wii - publishing   papers about its usage in physical 
therapy and Parkinson's treatment.   Business school professors rushed to write papers 
about the success of the Blue Ocean strategy. Sales were strong going into 2010,   spurred on by a price cut. But blue 
oceans never stay blue for very long. Wii sales started to plateau and then 
decline through 2010 while those of   its competitors chugged along. By 2012, 
both the Xbox360 and the Playstation 3   were outselling the Wii on both the hardware 
and software side. The Wii still outsold them   both in terms of total sales, but by now 
the platform was deep into its decline. So what went wrong? Why couldn't the Wii 
keep up and capitalize on its early momentum? Sony and Microsoft fell to second and third place 
within the home gaming console market for this   generation. But they keyed in on certain aspects 
of what made the Wii so popular and copied it. In 2010, Sony launched the Playstation Move,   a motion sensing game controller platform 
for the PS3. You use a handheld wand similar   to the Wiimote and a camera tracks 
its movements as you move it around. Microsoft went a step further and 
launched the Kinect. The Kinect used   infrared sensors to detect movement without 
the need for any game controller at all. Sony and Microsoft did not replicate the 
exact same features as the Wii or the Wiimote.   But they did not have to. They only needed 
to bring out something that could do a good   enough job in replicating the 
motion control functionality. It reminds me of how Instagram launched Instagram 
Stories, a feature from SnapChat, and henceforth   checked SnapChat's growth. The feature scratched 
the consumer itch and the novelty went away. And then there were the gaming partners. The 
Wii sold more consoles than any other member   of its generation, but it failed to turn those 
sales into a viable platform for its partners. To give a better understanding of what I mean 
by that. Let us briefly talk about developers.   There are two types of games and accessories 
in the home console gaming industry.   There are "first-party" items - things made 
by the console manufacturer themselves.   And you got "third-party" items, 
things made by other companies. The life of a video game console depends a lot on 
the third party games and accessories made for it.   Gamers will keep playing a console if they can 
find great content for it. Grand Theft Auto V   is one example. The game was first released in 
2013, but it continues to sell year after year.   It is such an important driver of sales that 
the game was made available not just to the   PS3 and Xbox360, but also the PS4 and Xbox 
One, and the PS5 and Xbox X/S after that. Nintendo has a fine roster 
of first-party game studios.   These include iconic brands 
like the Legend of Zelda,   Mario, and Pokemon. But there are only so many 
games that Nintendo's in-house studios can make.   A console is not going to last unless its third 
party partners put out hit games for it too. A few years into the Wii's existence, third 
parties put out and sold fewer and fewer games   for its platform. By 2011, just 20 third-party 
games launched in Japan for the Wii. The PS3   on the other hand saw 138 releases, adding more 
value to the platform and spurring on more sales. Third-party developers did not adopt 
the Wii's remote sensing technology.   This appears to be for several reasons. First, imperfections in the hardware held back 
the full potential of motion sensing gameplay.   For instance, the first-party 
Zelda game Twilight Princess.   Designed so that players can 
slash their Wiimote like a sword,   the developers had to rework the button layout 
and Wii controls to make them more intuitive. If it was hard for the in-house developers, it 
would be even harder for third parties. With one   early game that incorporated the motion dynamics, 
Red Steel, reviewers found the game "buggy".   One said that its fights were like "two cavemen 
hitting each other over the head with clubs". Second, the Wii hardware was underpowered. 
I know they leaned into it in the marketing   and that people are most creative 
when given restraints, yada yada yada.   But we cannot deny that it didn't create problems. The hardware's lack of oomph forced 
developers to figure out ways to get   around the need to have "photo-realistic" 
environments and characters. We did end up   with some beautiful standouts. I loved Okami's 
beautiful Japanese watercolor-influenced art.   But in general, that was an exception 
and most games failed to impress. Third, unlocking novel gaming experiences with   the Wii progressively required the 
purchase of additional accessories.   Whether that was a plastic instrument for 
Guitar Hero, a Classic Controller, or the Wii   Balance Board, not every user bought these and 
it restricted each game's addressable audience. And lastly, 2011 saw the beginning of the rise 
of mobile games. The casual gamer realized that   they did not have to purchase a $250 piece 
of hardware and its expensive accessories   to play a simple video game. Now, everyone 
had a powerful gaming device in their pocket. The Apple App Store and its free-to-play games 
stole the casual gaming market out from Nintendo,   disrupting the disruptor. 
Today, the mobile game industry   is far larger than any console maker out there. Nintendo attempted to bottle lightning a second 
time with its next console release in 2012:   the Wii U. But consumers saw its big GamePad 
controller as nothing more than just another   tablet device and were disappointed by 
a lackluster lineup of launch games. The Wii U sold very poorly and Nintendo 
had to go back to the drawing board.   It sold less than 15 million units, a 
big drop from the Wii's 150 million plus. Reflecting on it, you might call the Wii a 
successful failure. You have to admire how   Nintendo hit a home run off the unproven idea and 
managed to sell a whole lot of consoles with it. But to go out on a limb, I would argue 
that the Wii device did not have a   lasting impact on popular console gaming culture.   An ecosystem needs participation from third 
parties to last. If your partners cannot   succeed on your platform then your ecosystem is 
likely to end up being only a flash in the pan.