Got a new number for you, Brady; it's 
another biggie: 10 to the 272,000.  Again we have done bigger, but this is bigger 
than a Googol - it's quite a lot bigger than Googol actually.    So this number Brady is the latest estimate on 
the number of universes that you can get out of   string theory.
- (Brady: Does that mean if string theory's 
right there are that many universes existing? Like)   (multiverses or- that's the number of different-)
- It's kind of- yeah, you would think of it as the size of   the multiverse. So, do they all exist? That's hard 
to say, but they could all exist and they may   all exist but, yeah, whether- I wouldn't want to 
say confidently that they're all existing now,   there's the potential potentially that they they 
could all be found at some point in the history of   the multiverse. Why are there so many possible 
universes that you can get from string theory?   You might have heard the number 10 to the 500 
used in this context? That was the old estimate,  that goes back about 20 years; this goes back 
about 5-6 years, this this is this sort of   updated estimate. But okay where does it come from? 
So string theory is a sort of- as as we know is   our best candidate for a quantum theory of gravity. 
But the funny thing about it, it's a 10-dimensional   theory. So what does that mean? It only really makes 
sense in 10 dimensions of space and time; and that   goes against what you normally think about because 
you know we experience three dimensions of space   and one dimension of time so there's- there's six 
left over in string theory for it to make sense.   So what we normally say is, those extra six 
dimensions are wrapped up very very small, so small   we can't see them. Okay, so there's a very- what 
we call like a compact shape, a compact manifold,   that wraps up these six extra dimensions. Now the 
original hope is that, you know, you'd wrap it up   in one particular way and then you'd get the the- 
you know a single unique universe would pop out.   It turns out that there are lots and lots 
and lots of different ways you can wrap up   these six extra dimensions. So the way you 
can think of them- think of a torus maybe,   and you can see that has cycles, one going round 
that ring, another one going around this way-   general sort of shapes that you use to sort 
of bring this string theory down from 10 to   4 dimensions; they have so much structure, so 
much complexity, that when you count up all the   possibilities you get- you start arriving at some 
very big numbers. Not just that- it's not just the   shapes that are important, it's what you can do 
with those shapes. One of the things you do is   you- you have in string theory you have a you know 
analogues of magnetic fields and you can sort of   thread magnetic flux through these extra 
dimensions in in loads of different ways -   and again that adds to the different universes you 
have. Because for any given shape that you pick you   get a very particular structure of the sort of 
leftover 4-dimensional world. And if I choose   one shape I'll get one four-dimensional world 
with certain particles, certain forces, certain just   structure there; if I choose a different one I'll 
get something different. So they all give something   subtly different.
- (I mean I'm not going to pretend 
I understand what you're talking about right, but) (as I understand it, you know, there are all these 
different ways to pack the hidden dimensions.)  (One of those packing configurations results in 
the universe that you and I are living in right now.)  Absolutely.
- (Do we know what that one looks like?) 
- No. We've never been able to come up with one   that gives what we see. So it's a very good point 
actually, it's a it's actually a really great point.   So there are huge numbers of possible universes 
that you can get out of string theory, you just do   this counting game, you know, there are 
constraints on on how you can put these   magnetic fluxes through these- these weird and 
wonderful shapes and and when you do this you   get you get this this counting. Actually this 
estimate comes from using something called F   theory which don't need to- let's not worry about 
what it is, but it gives you a way of calculating   the you know vacua universes in a certain 
type of string theory called type 2b. That's a   technical detail. Your question was do any of them 
look like our universe? Actually all of the ones   that come from this counting, and this is a bit 
of a secret, they all have what's called negative   vacuum energy. Now that's a bit of a disaster 
because vacuum energy is the energy that you   have left over when you sort of take everything 
out. So you take out all the planets, all the stars,  all that, you have vacuum energy; the energy of the 
vacuum, of empty space. So you could ask, is it positive   is it negative? You might- or is it zero? You might 
think it's zero, but generally it's not zero.   In all of these cases it's negative - the thing is 
in our universe we expect it's probably positive,  and the reason is is because we see the 
universe accelerating and that positive vacuum   energy will cause an acceleration. 
- (This doesn't lead you to think maybe string theory is wrong?) No, not yet, it's it's a curious one because- 
okay okay so one of the things- I mean something   else could be causing the universe to accelerate. 
It could be that we're in a in one of these vacua,  that we're in one of these universes, and the the 
the vacuum energy is very small but negative and   what we're experiencing at the moment is is just 
some excited state above that and actually we're   still at positive energy and we're going to 
roll eventually, dark energy itself will   settle down to nothing and then we'll end up 
in this vacuum. That might be a way out that you   could imagine quite easily - well not easily, no one 
knows how to do it, but but you could imagine it.  So yeah, so there's this huge number of vacua and a 
huge number - I'm saying vacua because what I'm   really talking about, what you're counting here, 
are actually the vacuums of the theory okay, and   the universe that you would get is the sort of 
excitations about it, you know, you sort of start   putting planets and stuff in there. But but this 
is what the kind of different sort of baseline   points you can have for each of these.
- (Sort of like the- sort of like the different foundations)   Exactly exactly. I started thinking about what 
some of them might look like actually, this is   where I started going off on one and having a bit 
of fun. Different shapes will give you different   properties of the underlying universe. When you've 
got so many as this, some of these universes can be   really really big, so they're all got negative 
vacuum energy. Now when you've got a universe   with negative vacuum energy it's guaranteed 
to end after a certain time. Vast majority of   these universes will end almost instantaneously, 
they'll barely exist for any time at all. Those   which have a very small and negative vacuum 
energy will live for much longer. 
- (More stable) They're more stable, yeah, exactly. Now there's some 
of them are going to live for a really long time,   like much longer than the our current age of the 
universe. Like this huge number allows that,    we can imagine the some are really really long lived. 
And I started thinking about what would- you know,   sort of what would it be like in those places 
when you've been around for a really really long   time? How would technology develop for example? Has 
technology developed to sort of gargantuan levels?  So you start thinking about Moore's law, 
you know, that computing power will double   every two years.
- (Of course a really long-lived 
universe doesn't guarantee really long-lived inhabitants.)  Absolutely and this is what I'm coming 
to, right. So I said, okay so let's imagine Moore's   law applied; computer power's doubling every two 
years or something and let's suppose you try to do it for   for the kind of length of time some of these 
really long-lived universes are going to give you.   Then you quickly get to- you you exceed the 
allowed bounds. There's a nice paper by Seth   Lloyd where he says that the maximum amount of computing 
power you can have for a kilogram sized computer   is about 10 to the 50 operations per second. You're 
gonna go sailing past that point, in fact you're   gonna find that you're gonna you're gonna have to 
start making bigger computers so you can fit more   energy into it and then you're going to get bigger 
and bigger and bigger and bigger until eventually   you have to start building computers that are 
reaching all the way to the cosmological horizon   and you still have got nowhere near where Moore's 
law would theoretically take you, right. So there's   no way you're going to get- that you can just keep 
developing technology in these places, you're   going to have to hit some limit very quickly on 
the wider time scales that we're talking about,   and then something's got to give right? Either 
it just stays stable, I think much more likely   is that it crashes down and society ends- you 
know, they've become so technological they've   learned also how to destroy themselves as 
we have. And then it starts off again and   then it goes down again then it starts 
up again and then it goes down again. That's one possibility; the other is that there 
is a way to sort of get around some of these   bounds. The big thing, the big obstacle, is that 
you need to start adding energy to the system to   get more computing power from it. And you want 
that not to turn into a black hole. So the way   to stop things turning into a black hole is to 
weaken gravity. Now it's possible because of this-   that some of these funny shapes
are leading to much weaker gravity theories.   Gravity is much weaker in these universes. So it 
might be that in some cases gravity's weaker which   means these bounds limiting technology, are 
much much weaker bounds and you can get much more   technologically advanced and much 
faster computing power from these things.   And that would be really cool, so you can in some 
cases you might get really really beyond what   you can even comprehend, advanced civilizations. 
In fact if you've got weaker gravity, as there   would be in some of these universes, you 
can find generally everything's much more   complex. For example stars live for much 
longer; if stars live for much longer that that   also suggests you've got more time for things to 
evolve, things are going to get bigger, we're going   to get better and cleverer and cleverer and cleverer 
and cleverer, it's going to be much more advanced.   So when you start thinking about these multiverses 
and all the things that can happen in them   I mean I think you're just talking about things 
that are completely unimaginable to what we could   even comprehend. Like the levels of technology that 
are just off the scale, beyond even the bounds that   we think exist in our universe that they're not 
even restricted by those and I think that's an   amazing place to be.
- (If string theory is correct and there's some number,)   (at the moment it's that number there, but 
there's some number of possible universes) (would only one of them actually come into 
existence? Would all of them have a chance? Would)   (all of- would any exist simultaneously? What does 
that number actually mean? Like how many of those-)   That's a very good question. It's not a question 
we can answer without much better knowledge of   string theory. What you're really asking is how are 
these vac- these universes distributed in all the range   of possibilities. And it might be that some of them 
are much more likely than others, we have no idea   what that weighting really is, we just don't know,
we don't know string theory well enough to answer   that question. So it might be that someone 
much more preferred, in which case you would   say that we're much likely to be in one of those 
universes. You ask the question can they all exist -   again that's a question you can only really answer 
with much better knowledge of string theory. What can   happen generally in a system with say two vacuums,
two two solutions, you can have bubbles of one   appear in the other. So you could start off with 
the universe where everything's in one particular   state, then a bubble nucleates of the other state 
and then a bubble nucleates and you get this   percolation effect. You could have something 
like that at a cosmological level and these   new universes start to appear and then universes 
start to appear in universes - and that could happen.   To be sure it happens you have to know about the 
transition, the nucleation rate, of these bubbles;   and you can't know that without much much 
better knowledge of the shape of what's called   the strength theory landscape which we just don't 
know, we don't have the tools yet to calculate.   (You told me there are there are these 10 dimensions;
three that we're quite familiar with, time, and)   (then these six little ones packed and hidden away. 
Are all of these universes you talk about here)   (examples like that, where there are three out 
in the open, time, and six hidden? Like is that)  (just limiting us to that configuration?)
- Yeah yes yes 
- (Like could there be a 5-dimensional universe)   (where there are five hidden-)
- Yes there could. Yeah so exactly 
yeah, you could, you could imagine that. There's   certain assumptions that have gone in here: one 
of the assumptions is that you've gone down to   four dimensions, the other is that you've gone 
down to four dimensions on a very particular type of of shape which are these Calabi–Yaus, 
which guarantees a certain amount of symmetry,   guarantees stability, it guarantees you can 
actually trust your calculations. So there   might be many more things that you could consider, 
we just haven't figured out how to calculate, we   haven't figured out to make sense of them; and 
yeah absolutely you could imagine scenarios   with other dimensionalities.
- (I sometimes hear that mathematicians and physicists can)   (think something's right by gut or instinct.
They may be proven right or proven wrong in the)   (fullness of time. Does your gut or instinct tell 
you that string theory's on the right track here?)   With with this this is- this- it's 
a very difficult question, umm I think string theory is a magnificent theory. 
Is this- should I take this amount of universes   seriously? Should I take the multiverse seriously? 
It's very early days to do that. I mean at the moment   this is just a counting game, they count 
a number of solutions that you could get,  there's so much more to ask. Is- are these even all 
consistent? Do these even all make sense? Or is it a   subset of them that makes sense? Which ones do make 
sense, you know? This this is ongoing research. So   one of the things that I think people sometimes 
criticise string theory for is they- you know, they   say, oh you're talking about these multiverse 
you're talking about all the you know this all   these possibilities, it's not testable it's not- 
but actually string theorists aren't being that   reckless, they are looking at these and really 
trying to understand - do these actually make   sense? Did- this was just a counting game but 
let's try and actually really build one and and   study what it does and can we actually get it? And 
and that's what people are doing and there's this   whole swampland program trying to understand 
that. And I think there's actually much more   rigour than perhaps I think maybe the wider 
community realises going on by string theorists.  They're really pushing and and probing 
this- their theory to try to understand better:   what is the meaning of these numbers? What is- what 
are the meaning of all the universes that appear?   Can I trust them all, and where 
is our universe in all of that? For more big numbers and mind-boggling cosmology,
why not check out Tony's brand new book;   it's called 'Fantastic Numbers and Where to 
Find Them - a cosmic quest from zero to infinity'.   There's a link in the description. And 
to really give your brain a workout   you should be visiting our episode sponsor, 
Brilliant. I've told you countless times about   their great courses and lessons filled 
with interactivity, designed by real pros. But in a world going crazy with wordles and 
sudoku's and the like, you really need to check   out brilliant's daily challenges like these ones 
here. I love them. They're always really cunning   but they've also got like a sense of humour, 
that's another thing I like about Brilliant,  it kind of makes you smile. To check them out go 
to brilliant.org/numberphile. Using that URL will   give you 20% off a premium subscription. Again, 
check out the links in the video description. ...it does. My problem with it is that it's 
completely untestable as far as I can tell,  in that, you know, this idea that that the sun 
is just one star for example, it's a hypothesis. And then you learn more and more about other 
stars out there by observing them, by making   observations of them, and then actually you 
find, yeah it's true, actually the sun is no   different from any other star. The multiverse 
as far as I can tell we can't test physically   because the idea that there are other universes 
out there, well how do we communicate with them?