- Formula One is the most expensive, technologically advanced
sport in the world. Behind the spectacle lies a
relentless pursuit of speed, where cutting edge technology
means the difference between victory and defeat. Picture this. Terabytes of data every race weekend. Cutting edge materials
that push the limits of both strength and lightness. Sustainable fuels to ignite the most efficient engines on the planet. All of this in pursuit
of 1/10 of a second, a fraction of time worth millions. This is Formula One
and I can't get enough. (dramatic music) (engine roaring) Today I am taking you inside
the halls of Red Bull Racing, unveiling the secrets
of their all new RB20, and revealing the future of Formula One. Turns out there's a lot more here than just Drive to Survive. Watching on TV or even in person only gives you a small taste
of what goes into Formula One. Growing up, I was heavily
influenced by my dad, who actually gave racing
a shot in his twenties and very much ingrained in me
a deep love of all things cars and specifically F1. I mean, seeing the scarlet Ferraris dominate week after week
became a core memory for me. But there's no doubt that Formula One has grown enormously since then. And tech is a huge driver of that. My friend, Myke Hurley, and I recently spent a couple of
days at the Red Bull campus in Milton Keynes, England, to not only witness the
cutting edge tech firsthand, meeting legends like Verstappen and Perez, but one of the things that
absolutely blew our minds was a drone. Forget just filming an F1 car. This thing races them. If you're not aware, Myke and
I have had a F1 podcast for the last couple of years. I think it's pretty safe to
say we're excited right now. - I'm pretty pumped. I'm very excited. - All I know is the Red
Bull will flow today and the content will also
follow suit. (laughs) Red Bull teamed up with Dutch
Drone Gods to create this. It's tiny, but this is a drone that can reach speeds well
over 200 miles per hour in just a few seconds. And it can do it a lot
faster than an F1 car. (engine revving) We're about to see the first run. What do you think? - I'm pretty excited. I'm nervous, but in a good way. - It's just one of those
things where it's like, how often do you get an
opportunity like this, right? Like, I mean, it is so cool. - Yeah. - They staged a drag race
with an older Red Bull F1 car piloted by David Coulthard
on an admittedly damp day out at the Milford Proving
Grounds, and it wasn't even close. So I've gotta ask, what was it
like going against the drone? Because it feels like that
drone is insanely fast. - Yeah, it is. It just gets up and goes up
to its V Max very quickly, and clearly a Grand Prix car,
it takes time to get speed, get down force, and then get grip. So in this sort of situation,
there's no comparison. - The way the drone flies is wild. Forget autopilot or fancy stabilization. This thing is raw, entirely reliant on
the skill of the pilot. Takeoff is actually vertical, as the pilot has to
carefully bounce the throttle to angle it like a jet fighter
and absolutely take off. It's outfitted with a pair of cameras, a stripped down GoPro for the main angle, as well as an analog camera, which is solely for
sending the live feed back to the FPV headset. - It's incredible to see, actually. It looks such a simple device, but clearly the amount of moving parts, and for Shaggy to be able
to to handle virtually, you know, the direction. I've seen some footage, and we've been on track at Silverstone, incredibly precise how he can
follow the actual racetrack. - The setup is wild. Not only do they need an additional drone to relay the signal to make sure there's no loss of control
at over 200 miles per hour, but the operator has to
track an F1 car accurately on a racetrack as it accelerates,
flies through corners, and brakes, and it has to do it reliably. This first version of the
drone drains its battery in just a couple of minutes, AKA enough to make it one lap. To get even a small
taste of what it's like to fly a drone in first person view at over 200 miles per hour, I got to try a much, much smaller version. I have never flown an FPV drone before. What do I need to know? - Have you flown normal drones? - I've flown some normal
drones, but not a lot. - Well, it's quite a bit different. Fingers on the sticks. - Got it. - Oh
- Oh. - Oh, okay. I saw the piece of plastic flying. Look at that. Oh, hey, okay. That's actually kinda fun. Now I get to do it with the goggles. I'm going in.
- Going up in the matrix. - I can't really see anything at all. Oh, oh, oh, yep. (laughs) It's really hard 'cause you have, like, no sense of anything. But when you see the footage that they've captured with
this, it is truly wild. Red Bull are helping to develop this with an eye on pushing
it into live production in the future. Imagine following along
with a qualifying lap to get that true sense of speed that nothing else can deliver. Bye, little buddy. I'm glad I didn't wreck you too bad. One of the coolest parts
of the trip as an F1 fan was the tour of the factory, where they build the Red Bull cars. For very, very understandable reasons, since secrecy inside an
F1 factory is paramount, I was not allowed to film inside, but the scope of their
operation blew my mind. What are you expecting going into it? - The scale, I'm excited for the scale. Like, what is the scale of an operation putting together an F1 car? Because I could imagine it's either huge, or smaller than you think. - The scale of this place is nuts. Their control room, it looks
like it was designed by ex-NASA engineers, because it was. Each race generates
those terabytes of data, and it's all actually
crunched in real time to make split second decision calls. And the tech, I mean
the huge CNC machines, resin printers that spit
out wind tunnel models. I mean look, I've toured
factories, labs, you name it, and nothing touches Red Bull. The sheer investment, the
insane attention to detail. It is no surprise that they are currently crushing the competition. If all that's not enough, maybe
my favorite part of the trip was getting a sneak peek
at Red Bull Powertrains. They've partnered with
Ford to for the first time build their own engines starting in 2026. And holy (duck quacking). Look, I again was super, super not allowed to film anything inside, but seeing the room size
dynos that they have for testing engines, but even more so, the hand-assembled parts, the fact that they have entire rooms. Look, they had an entire room
dedicated to testing turbos. Not just like, "Oh we're
gonna run it in the machine or whatever." They had, like, freaking like, shipping container-sized
burners just to burn gas to spin these turbos at
tens of thousands of RPMs at these absurdly high temperatures just to simulate the
load that they would get when they're running in an F1 car. I expected the tech and
everything to be fancy and new. This is a brand new operation. But the scale of it was unbelievable. Look, you probably hear
the words mind blown a lot, but touring these facilities, seeing the actual nuts and bolts of how an F1 car is designed and built, I've gotta be honest, it is
one of my favorite experiences I've ever had making videos. And then came launch day for the RB20, the 2024 Red Bull F1 car, which will begin racing this weekend. So we are just a couple of hours away from the launch of the RB20, the latest Red Bull racing F1 vehicle. But before we do that, we're taking a look down memory lane at the last several generations. Really all the way from the RB1 all the way through to the RB16B. It is really interesting to see just how much the vehicles have evolved. You can see the sort of
the low noses of the RB1. You can see all the way through these incredibly complicated wings. And then you can see how
the high noses came in. Like, it's a great view of how F1 and how Red Bull have
evolved their vehicle over the last 20 years. - It's actually kind of staggering
to be in a room like this and see not just all the cars, but all of the wins,
all of the championships that are in these
banners around these cars showing the incredible history
of the Red Bull racing team. It really is like quite a sight to behold. - Formula One cars look
quite similar to each other at first glance, but almost
every part is custom built. Parts can be designed,
test printed, manufactured, and completed in a span of just hours. And this happens all day
every day the entire year. (triumphant music) All right, so we've just
seen the RB20 in person, so now I'm going to have an opportunity to chat with not only Max
Verstappen and Sergio Perez, but also Christian Horner to
get a little bit of a sense for not only where the car is now, but also the past and the history of F1. Because to me the tech is the most interesting part of this, right? Like I love the racing, but the
immense amount of technology that goes into these vehicles
is fascinating to me. So it's something I
really wanna talk about as far as kind of not only
where things have been, but also where things are going. Also, it's kind of cool. How do you feel like
the sport has evolved? Because not only, of
course, it's much larger, the teams are larger, the budget, like, everything feels
like it's a grander scope, but also the cars are so
much more complicated. Like, we got a tour of
the factory yesterday and it is unreal the amount
of work that goes into it, the parts, the customization. Like, how do you feel like the sport has sort of grown in that time? - Well, it's evolved massively. And if I look at the technology, that's been the thing
that's been most impressive. You know, the evolution in just 20 years has been remarkable. And the use of software, the use of data, and the way and the speed of data has been unbelievable. So that's been the most
impressive thing that's evolved. - As you can imagine,
safety is a huge concern in Formula One. And the cars have,
while they're much safer than they were in the past,
gotten incredibly large. And while that means that you
can have this incredible tech, you have the ground effect aerodynamics to suck the cars down to the pavement, it also has some downsides. What are the things that
you would love to see if like, you just had like a magic wand and like, oh, 10 years from now you can kind of remake
F1 however you want? - Well, there's quite a few things. I mean, but they're not realistic anymore in the world that we live in, you know? So for example, bringing
a V10 engine back, it's a lot lighter. And look at the size of this car, it's so much smaller than
what we have now, right? So I think this is actually, like, a really beautiful size for a racing car. - Yeah. - Something a bit smaller, cleaner. - Yeah. - I mean that for me, yeah, less weight, lighter cars, that would help. - I think lighter cars
will be a good thing. - Talking with both Max and Checo, they're both like, "Oh,
lighter cars would be great." 'Cause I mean the cars these days, they're incredibly fast, but they're huge. They're heavy, right? - If you compare 'em to the
car that we had 20 years ago, it looks like a go-kart in comparison. (Austin laughing) - The closest I've ever gotten
to driving a Formula One car is playing F1 in a simulator. But what's interesting is, is that not only does of course Red Bull and every F1 team have an
insanely impressive setup that I will tell you no
one is ever, ever, ever allowed to film, much less even see, but it was interesting talking with Max about how he treats video
games, not only in his off time, but also how he used it growing up to learn more about how
cars actually maneuver. So obviously, 20 years of Red Bull is like an enormous amount of time, but I know that you also
spend a lot of time off track doing like sim racing and stuff. Kinda like, how do video games play into not only your sort of
enjoyment of the sport, but also just being
prepared and just like, where does that kind of come from? - I mean, I did start driving
also virtually already from a young age, but that was, you know, at the time just on the controller. Then you get a little steering wheel, and it slowly got more
and more professional. And of course at the time, you know, the games are not where they are today. And I have to say,
nowadays I think you can relate on them a lot more. The only thing really missing is, like, the G forces and stuff, but I have to say, there are a lot of great games
out there that, you know, really focus on on the physics of the car and the tire models and stuff. So yeah, it's getting
really, really serious. I've tried, like, motion rigs and stuff, but it's just slower. 'Cause you'll, you know,
it's easier to make a mistake because of the movement. Of course for here it's good
at Red Bull, the factory, because that's how you, you know, you're fully driving a real
life to get a bit of a motion. And it's not about pure lap time, it's about making it fully 100% accurate. But yeah, for sure, you know, in the coming years also there, there will be more and more developments. And at the end of the day,
if you set up a championship where everyone is in a motion rig, then it's the same for everyone, right? - Yeah. - But at the moment
it's better just to have a fixed, stationary rig. - That makes sense. It's funny, I actually had a
similar experience growing up with games such as "Gran Turismo," to the point where the first time I got behind the wheel of a car and tried to drive it remotely quickly, I was shocked at how much
that games like "Gran Turismo" had actually informed
me in the way that cars actually maneuver in the real world. And it's interesting that
it's sort of the same on the F1 side, although
it's probably, like, a decade of driving go-karts before you really get good enough. But it's still, it's
very interesting to see that F1 drivers feel so,
like, superhuman, you know? I mean, you see the
training that they go through, the G's that they experience, the kind of just, insane environments that they have to perform in. But at the end of the
day, they're driving cars. And I think it's really important
to sort of ground things. Because most other sports, I could kick a ball, I could throw a ball. Like, there's a lot of
these things that are like, I could sort of comprehend
and get my head around. But Formula One feels
like it's this exotic, absolutely otherworldy sort of thing. But in reality, they're driving
cars very, very quickly. And for all the tech in
the world you've got, ultimately it comes down
to the feel, the knowledge, and the sheer determination to drive the fastest cars in the world better than anyone else out there. And that, my friends, that is Formula One. And I really wanna
drive a Formula One car. So maybe next year I can convince someone to let me drive the car. Y'all, you got my number. Hit me up if you got, you
need some extra testing, I'm available. (dial tone humming)
(crickets chirping) So much happens here, and I am incredibly excited to
have gotten this sneak peek, like-
- Privileged. - As Formula One fans... - This has been unreal.
- Unreal. - Unreal.
- Unreal. - Never, unforgettable. - Now you go home and
watch it back on TV again. (Austin and Myke laughing)