- We've had a mixed track
record when it comes to Etsy, because for every cool thing
that we've found in the past, there's something equally horrible that is also lurking on the site. But this time around, we have a game plan. On one end, we are going to be building the most mid PC of all time using the Steam hardware survey, as well as bestselling
on Amazon and Newegg. But then we're going to be spicing it up with some accessories and
accoutrement from Etsy.com. What could possibly go wrong? Getting flashbacks to the Charmander PC. Now you'll see that when
choosing the most average PC, you're gonna get some components that are decidedly not a good idea. So take our graphics card. So this is a GeForce 3060. So that is by far the most popular GPU in the Steam hardware survey. Makes sense, it's a pretty
decent mid-range card from a few years ago. However, that version is the eight gig, which you literally
just can't buy anymore. So the obvious choice if
you were buying this today would be the 12 gig. Same thing goes for the CPU. It's actually a little
bit of an odd choice. So this is the Intel Core i5 10600K. You'll probably be sensing
a little bit of a trend here in that the average PC on
Steam is a couple of years old, which makes a lot of sense, but this is still quite a reasonable CPU. It's gonna have a lot of performance and actually goes for a lot
of our other components. But at the end of this, I wanna find out how good is the average
Steam user's PC setup. Now it's time to actually
build this most average PC and to complete the package, we're going to be grabbing a bunch of the bestselling accessories
that go along with it. So we have mouse, keyboard, monitor, which best matches the actual performance that you're gonna get
out of a 1080p display that is used by the
majority of Steam users. Starting with this, the Razer
Ornata V3 gaming keyboard. And it's, well, it's not great. Sounds like a bag of bones. Hey, where's the mouse? Did I forget to buy the
bestselling mouse from Amazon? Oh wow, look at that! A G502 Hero, the
bestselling mouse on Amazon that I definitely already had
and didn't forget to order. (laughing) Look at that. Real talk though, this actually is one of the bestselling mice for a reason. It doesn't look super exciting, but it is a very competent
mouse for not a lot of money. Mouse is good. Keyboard is
fine if you have no taste. To round out the boring setup, we have the most popular monitor, which actually I think might be good, unlike some of this other stuff, which is a little bit questionable. Now, it's always a test when
you pick up a cheap monitor. How light is it? Oh, it's not ultra super
light, it's just regular light. I mean, that seems fine, right? 90 bucks. Let's start looking at some Etsy items and let's begin upgrading this setup into something that you
can actually be proud of. Okay, so I'm gonna start out real broad. We're just gonna type in gaming PC. Now, I do not wanna purchase
an actual gaming PC, which I know there are plenty of. So this is a 1.3" OLED that you can plug into
your PC as an accessory. So they've got here like Ethereum pricing, but you also could see like your CPU or GPU temperature or something. That's really neat. What is an ice PC set? Ice-themed decoration for your PC. So basically it's a whole icy setup that you can magnetically
attach to your PC. That's actually kinda neat. This is so sick. Absolutely. I hope that we have a white case, right? A Glorious Model O Wireless Charging Dock. Oh, that's neat. So instead of using Qi or something, when you actually do it, it will attach the mouse to the top. That's really sick. Create your own custom
printed RGB GPU backplate. Oh yeah, we should do this.
That's actually really cool. So it looks like it's got like RGB built into the actual back plate. If we can use Etsy to take
the most mid PC of all time and turn it into something which not only is super functional, but also looks really cool. Man, two thumbs up for this. I'm excited, dude. We're
finding so much good stuff here. Oh God! It's cat ears, tail, and feet for your PC. (Alex laughing) You know what, we were doing so good with this aesthetic sort of picks and now we're just gonna
throw it all away. Look at this boring setup. If only we had a wide variety
of wonderful items from Etsy to make it less boring and less normal. Oh wait, we do. This first one, I saw it on Etsy and I was like, you know what? I need this in my life. And I would argue a lot of gamers probably need this in their lives too. And no, it's not deodorant. Behold, my friends. The one and only, smells like video game rage candle. Now, you might ask, what, Austin, does video
game rage smell like? And to that, I would say (audience jeering) like a candle, okay.
(cricket chirring) Hey! Okay. - [Joanna] Is this a fire hazard having it like right next to your PC? - Candles have never caused, are you trying to insinuate
that candles could start fires? Boy, I really do not have a-
- Oh, maybe not over the fire. Don't put that over the fire! - Oh, oh, oh, yeah, yeah, good point. Oh wait, all your followers? Did someone somehow figure out who I am based on placing an order for
a bunch of PC parts on Etsy under the name Austin Evans? - [Alex] What? You're
not Pierre Luigi, what? - I forgot to order as Pierre Luigi. That was very nice, Etsy. Thank you for giving
us some extra bonuses. I can't be mean to you
because you wrote a nice note. - You can still be mean to them.
- No. No. - [Alex] All right, can I be mean to him? - Apparently if you scan the
QR code, you get 35% off. Yeah, you can be mean to me. That's fine. - [Alex] Yes! - So this is what we actually ordered. So this should go something like this on the bottom of our system. - [Alex] Damnit Zeke, it's
good. I can't roast you. - That's legitimately terrific. That's really, really cool. Wait a minute. Am I about to put a huge
amount of white accessories into a black case? I hope that we have a white case, right? So after unboxing most of our Etsy items, I realized that with a black case and all white accessories,
I made a little boo boo. So it's time to go back
to the drawing board and see how we can fix this. Also, did I just say boo boo unironically? (upbeat music) Ooh, that smells like success, my friends. Welcome to the most boring gaming PC, or so it was, because now I've gotta say that when you look at the Etsy-ified system we have built here, it is one of the coolest
PCs I've ever built. And by me, I mean y'all
did most of the work 'cause I got frustrated yesterday. So since we originally built the system, we obviously swapped it
out to the white version of the Corsair case. 'Cause I forgot to order
the white one to begin with. So that part's fine. We had to swap the motherboard because the super cheapo board that we originally worked with had no RGB headers whatsoever. Between that, between our desk mat, between our fact that we did
have to swap the keyboard, because when we realized
the Razer keyboard didn't have easily swappable keycaps, we swapped over to this,
which is the Royal Kludge. We have our full Unown set of key caps, and by full, I mean just the QWERTY ones. All that was left was we
had to swap out the cooler because some of our accessories we later realized after we ordered them, were meant for an AIO
and not a air cooler. Which is fine, because
look how lovely this is. Okay, let me walk you through all the things we've done here. So starting out with, we
have all of these icicles. So this is all purchased
from a single Etsy seller. So we have them along the top. We have them along our AIO tubing. We have it on our AIO pump, on the fans, those are actually really cool because it's not only a grille, but also it has a little spikes. We have 'em on the bottom. And on top of that, we have augmented it with some actual legitimate real crystals. We have a large amount of
Overclock logos everywhere. In fact, even on our desk mat. So if you're a big fan of
Overclock Media and white, then this is the system for you. Might be describing myself right now, maybe. But you know what? It's fine. So we've got ourselves
this bottom display. So it has a small 3.5
inch display that has, we've got it programmed with
a little Pikachu set up, so we can see CPU, temperature,
SSD, that kind of stuff. But it also does have the
Overclock logo etched in it, and it has some LEDs inside. We also have a custom LED
back plate for our RTX 3060. So this is specifically
designed for the MSI card, so it just attaches right like that. On top of that, we also have some of these Overclock fan shrouds, which is actually kindly given it to us by one of the Etsy sellers
who recognized the channel. So shout out. Oh God, did I just do the... - Blessed?
- Hmm. Blessings. Is this a silly setup and way too much work for
the most boring computer? Absolutely. Does it look sick? Yes. And look at the giant Overclock logo, which is our GPU support. The GPU does not need a support, but it's a full 3D printed Overclock logo. How cool is that? Not to mention the fact, in case you forget my
name, it's right here. Oh, and we've got this
really, really dumb little cart for the PC, which I
will say not a big fan of, but, luckily all this was very affordable. I was, no, it was priceless. Wait, we didn't spend more on Etsy than we did build at the PC, did we? - [Alex] (laughs) Well. The PC, including all the accessories, so that's including the
headphones, the mouse, the keyboard.
- The whole setup. - [Alex] The whole setup.
- Yep. - [Alex] Is a little bit, it's $1,100. - We spent $1,100 on the most average PC. I mean, to be fair, it is
monitor everything, but okay. - [Alex] All the Etsy stuff was over $800, and that's including all
the various discounts that Etsy was like, "Hey,
since you're spending so much, you want a discount on stuff?"
- Oh, my God. So you're telling me that
we spent over $800 on Etsy and people gave us a bunch of free, like half the stuff was
free, extra bonus goodies, and then the rest of
the stuff is little... Let's put this all to the test and see. While the extra money we have spent certainly has not given us any extra FPS, it'll give us some extra CPS. (disc scratching) Not Child Protective Services. Cool points and style. So just as a refresher, this
system, as flashy as it is, is using very much standard components. This is an Intel Core i5 10600K, as well as an RTX 3060,
and 16 gigs of RAM. So, I mean, according to Steam, this is as average as
average components get. Time to get number one
Victory Royale. Let's go. There we go. Look at that. I'm so good at Fortnite. I mean, this is obviously
a great experience, right? Ah! Nope, nope, nope,
nope, runaway, runaway. We're rocking 120 FPS, 1080p. No problems whatsoever. If this is what the
average person is using, they're actually getting
a pretty good experience. Like realistically, I mean, uh-oh, I disconnected, what? Wait, I lost internet, and yet the game is
still continuing, what? Well, I got confused. I really think that if
this is the average system that people are using, it's
actually really not bad. Now, I'm not gonna talk to you at all about the price to performance of taking the most average
system and upgrading it. But once you can play a game
at a nice, smooth frame rate at decent settings, everything
else on top of that, it's nice for future proofing
and blah, blah, blah. But look, ultimately, are
you really gonna notice that big of a difference? Is this gonna change your
experience that much? I would argue no. If you really want a PC to
exemplify your creativity, if you really wanna show
off what you're all about, you could actually save some money in, instead of buying a
4070 Super or whatever, put that towards some
cool Etsy accessories. Like I actually think
that for a lot of people, the wow factor of this
system is worth something. Maybe not $800. But I legitimately, this
is a very usable setup. I'm pretty happy with
how we were able to turn the most boring gaming PC in the universe into something that,
honestly, it's a vibe. Is it your vibe? I'm not sure. Did I win by doing literally
nothing? Yes, I did. But sometimes in life,
much like with Etsy, you get what you get and
you're either happy with it or you gotta go and return your crystals. - [Joanna] On the bright side,
you're a crystal girl now. - [Alex] Eyy, shout out. - I, well, ever since
Mercury's been in retrograde, I've been feeling a kind of way, like I spent too much money on Etsy.