In 1961, the Macau government gave 
its casino monopoly to Stanley Ho. Over the next forty years, he gave them what they   wanted. And infiltrated every 
part of the Macanese economy. That casino and the underworld crime 
rings it fostered brought crime,   corruption and violence to Macau. In this video, what a long running 
casino monopoly did for Macau (澳門). ## Beginnings
I did my last video on Macau a long time ago. So long ago I no longer have the script 
for that video. Wow, this channel is old. Macau sits at the mouth of the Pearl 
River delta, about 60 kilometers   west of Hong Kong. It is made up of three 
smaller areas - Macau, Taipa and Coloane. Those three have changed a lot thanks 
to the extensive use of reclaimed land.   Macau used to be an isthmus, but is now 
a peninsula connected to the mainland. Taipa and Coloane used to be separate 
but are now merged into one big island. Altogether, Macau is about 32.9 square kilometers 
large or about half the size of Manhattan. Today   about 680,000 people live in Macau, making it 
one of the world's most densely populated places. ## Old History Macau dates back to the Ming Dynasty in 
1557, when the Portuguese started it as a   regional trading post - re-exporting 
textiles and garments from China. Basically from its foundation, 
there had been gambling in Macau   and its neighboring city of Canton, 
or Guangzhou today. Gambling places,   called Fan-tan houses, quickly 
popped up despite being illegal. Fan-tan (番攤) is a game of chance long played 
in Chinese history. The dealer puts some   buttons underneath a bowl. Four players 
then bet on the number under the bowl,   divided by four. It is simple to play - 
requiring only a few buttons or stones. Gambling attracted criminal elements. Throughout 
the 1700s, visitors reported murders, fighting,   robbery, brothels, and drinking. A 
common trick was to get a foreign   sailor drunk with cheap Chinese 
alcohol and then rob them blind. The Fan-tan houses closely integrated 
with human trafficking. Chinese from   the mainland would come to Macau 
to gamble, fall into huge debt,   and thus be forced to work their 
way out of it as exported labor. ## Shift to Gambling
Then in 1842, China lost the First Opium War. Under the unequal Treaty of Nanking, the 
British gained control over nearby Hong Kong.   The Qing also had to open five new trading ports 
- Shanghai, Guangzhou, Ningbo, Fuzhou, and Xiamen. Hong Kong's subsequent rise as a 
global trading center triggered   Macau's decline in the same and forced 
them to diversify their economy. But Hong   Kong also helped feed the Portuguese 
colony with tourists and gamblers. In the late 1840s, Macau Governor 
Ferreira do Amaral unilaterally   declared Macau a Portuguese colony. 
He expelled the Chinese from Macau,   occupied part of the nearby island of Taipa, 
and stopped paying rents to the Chinese. To raise revenues, the governor had 
his government sell licenses for   certain economic activities like opium 
trading, pork trading, and gambling. In 1847, Macau started selling licenses for the 
Chinese lottery - which still runs today. Two   years later in 1849 they sold an exclusive 
license to run Fan-tan gambling houses. Anyway, Governor Ferreira do Amaral's ... 
uh ... vigorous actions did make him a few   enemies. One morning in August 1849, 
he went for a horse ride. Then a group   of Chinese attacked him - dragging him 
off his horse and cutting off his head. He did not survive that. And his 
death would trigger a brief military   confrontation between Portugal and 
China - the Passaleão incident. ## The First Tycoon Macau boasts a long line of gambling tycoons. 
The first of which was Lou Kau (盧華紹). The man lived a wild life. Born in Guangdong in 
1848, he immigrated to Macau at about 9 years old. By his twenties, Lou had made a sizable 
fortune in monopoly pork trading, banking,   and opium. He and his family ran several 
gambling houses in Macau - a business   deeply intertwined with their opium businesses. However, Lou lost the biggest 
gamble of them all. In 1897,   Lou won an exclusive gambling license 
in Guangzhou. This required him to pay a   massive advance to the government 
- about 2 million silver taels. Then suddenly in 1900, the Viceroy 
of Liangguang - the Qing official   in charge of the Guangdong and 
Guangxi areas - banned all forms   of gambling. Yet he did not lift Lou's 
debt for a license now worth nothing. The debt grew due to interest, and the 
despondent Lou eventually hung himself   in 1907. His family took over the Fan-tan houses 
and ran them until their license expired in 1912. Today Lou Kau's mansion is a tourist attraction in 
Macau. And one of his many great-grandsons - bro   had 10 wives and 27 children - is the current 
chairman of the Macau Olympic Committee. ## The Hotel Central In 1930, Macau offered up new monopoly 
franchise rights for a gambling casino. A company bought that but 
soon fell into bankruptcy.   So in 1937 two gangsters - Kou Ho 
Neng (高可寧), the Pawn Shop King,   and Fu Tak-iong (傅德蔭) - formed the Tai Heng 
company and acquired the monopoly license. Their flagship location was the Grand Hotel. It 
was Macau's first high-rise - towering over the   surrounding neighborhood. It constantly ran 
live events and concerts to attract gamblers. The hotel appeared in movies and attracted famous   guests like Clark Gable, and Ian 
Fleming - the James Bond creator. Fleming mentioned the hotel in his 1959 
travelogue "Thrilling Cities". He noted   how the girls got more beautiful and the 
music got better the higher up you went   in the hotel. Nevertheless, Fleming called 
it the "least recommendable place on earth". The Tai Heng company also pioneered 
what is called the "Jin-Ke" (進客), the   use of paid recruiters to bring 
gamblers to their Fan-tan houses. The "Pawn Shop King" Kou used his 
influence to maintain the monopoly   for over twenty years. And the Hotel's 
rooms stayed occupied even throughout the   chaos of World War II, thanks in part 
to Portugal's neutrality in the war. But he was frankly uninterested in running this 
business - his gangster partner ran the casino's   day to day operations. Nevertheless, after the 
two passed away - Kou in 1955 and Fu in 1960,   everyone expected their descendants to 
receive the monopoly license once again. ## Stanley Ho Stanley Ho was born of mixed Dutch 
Jewish and Chinese descent in Hong Kong. Ho was born into wealth, but the 1929 stock 
market crash annihilated the family's fortunes. Two of his brothers ended their own lives. 
Then in 1941, the Japanese invaded Hong Kong,   forcing Ho to flee to then-neutral Macau. He started making money by running 
goods through the United Nations   blockade on the People's Republic 
of China during the Korean War.   It also taught him the value of 
schmoozing with the high class. Then in 1961, the Macau government put 
the monopoly license back up for bid. Ho   founded a company called STDM - Sociedade 
de Turismo e Diversões de Macao, literally   meaning the "Macau Travel and Amusements Company". And then with the financial help 
of Hong Kong tycoon Henry Fok,   STDM unexpectedly won the monopoly 
license with a bid of $410,000 US dollars. Governor Jaime Silvério Marques wanted to 
turn Macau into a gaming destination and   turn a page on its former sordid history. 
So the license carried with it a fixed   rental fee plus the requirement to 
build a casino and luxury hotel. Ho pledged allegiance to these goals, 
and that's in part why he won the bid. For his first casino, Ho temporarily converted 
an old Chinese junk into the "Macau Palace",   a floating casino. This was later updated,   and the new Macau Palace was featured in 
the Bond movie "Man with the Golden Gun". Then in 1962, Ho and STDM opened the 
Estoril Casino. Shortly before it opened,   the Macau government received a 
telegram from back home in Portugal,   demanding a stop in all gaming activities. 
The Governor promptly tore it up. There were a few dodgy moments in the late 
1960s, when violence spilling over from   the Cultural Revolution caused protests 
and violence interrupting the tourism. But then Ho opened the iconic Hotel 
Lisboa in 1970, and the gambling resumed. ## Ho's Monopoly For the next forty years - 
from 1962 to 2002 - Stanley   Ho and STDM grew Macau's gambling tourist economy. In 1974, the new governor Garcia Leandro demanded 
a drastically higher license fee. So starting in   1976, STDM started paying the government 
a portion of its total casino revenues. In 1986, Macau announced that it would extend 
STDM's monopoly license for another 15 years until   2001. This time, the government not only raised 
STDM's tax percentage to 30%, but also asked it   to co-invest in Macau's infrastructure, 
transport, and entertainment facilities. Ho paid handsomely for his monopoly, but he 
benefitted handsomely from it too. Gradually,   Stanley Ho and STDM made their way into 
virtually every part of the Macanese   economy. STDM owns stakes in Macau's hotels, 
nightclubs, banks, and department stores. He also controlled 90% of the high-speed 
jetfoils bringing thousands of tourists   over from Hong Kong to Macau - a 
critical chokepoint for the industry. At one point, 30% of Macau's 
working people were employed   by STDM itself or a company affiliated with it. And like his Macanese kingpin predecessors, 
Ho built a reputation as a benevolent   philanthropist - giving money to hospitals, 
schools, funding scholarships, and more. In 1996, STDM by itself contributed 65% of 
the government's total revenue. The phrase   circulating around Macau went, "What is 
good for STDM is good for Macau". Was it? ## Corruption Corruption within Macau's 
bureaucracy had long existed.   It was one of the core reasons behind 
the leftist riots in the late 1960s. And it was wide-ranging. Traffic police can 
be bribed with a few Macanese patacas to avoid   a ticket. Or thousands of dollars can be paid 
to re-export items from Hong Kong into Europe. In the 1980s, there was a major 
scandal where the head of the   Home Affairs Department issued fake documents 
for people to obtain Portuguese citizenship. Not to mention stories of funds meant for 
public hospitals being siphoned off. Rampant   illegal construction and buildings not up to code. 
Human trafficking for massage parlors. And so on. Similar issues plagued Hong Kong 
too. But while Hong Kong founded   the Independent Commission Against Corruption,   or ICAC and successfully suppressed that 
corruption, Macau's issues survived. We can point to a few reasons for 
this. One can point to the Portuguese   ruling community in Macau - very small, highly 
intermarried and comfortable in their positions. Or civil servants that are virtually impossible 
to fire, combined with a "spoils" system that   incentivizes new top bureaucrats to 
fill the ranks with their cronies. But perhaps the thing most often cited is 
the deep, three-way relationship between the   Macanese government, the gambling 
industry, and criminal elements. ## Crime Throughout his life, Stanley 
Ho denied any association   with organized crime - pointing to a 
lack of concrete evidence for such. So take what follows with a grain of salt. It is 
also a little complicated, but bear with me here. Over 70% of Macau's visitors hail 
from Hong Kong - taking a short   ferry ride over for gambling 
day-trips. So in the 1970s,   gangsters and triads bought up all the ferry 
tickets and resold them at high prices. Visitors hated this and so STDM struck a deal 
with the triads. Don't interfere with the   ferry business, and STDM would make a way for 
the triads to make money inside the casinos. They introduced a system called "junkets". This 
is an evolution of the Jin-Ke system I mentioned   earlier. Roughly speaking, junkets are marketing 
agents who bring in gamblers to the casinos. The agents pre-sold gambling chips to 
these customers for use within the casino   at a discount, taking a commission 
on the sale. This essentially ties   together the incentives of the casino 
and the agents - basically the triads. ## VIP Rooms Another big development happened in 1976 
when Stanley Ho introduced VIP rooms. These separated the high rollers 
from the rest of the riffraff and   were a major contributor to STDM's 
success in growing gaming revenues. A few years later in the mid-1980s, Stanley Ho 
started informally outsourcing the operations   of these VIP rooms to third-parties. 
Such a thing is illegal according to   the 1982 Macau Gaming Law, but 
nothing was put into writing. In the arrangement, the third party agrees 
to buy a fixed amount of gambling chips from   STDM - 10 million Macanese Patacas 
or something each month. If they   can sell 11 million worth of chips, 
that's great. If they sell 9 million,   their loss. This incentivizes junkets to bring 
more gamblers while also limiting STDM's downside. At the same time, the junket system allowed 
STDM to offer gambling credit through these   third-parties. This is a major practice 
in Las Vegas but banned in Macau for STDM. The big problem is how to recover a gambling 
debt. Courts in Mainland China do not recognize   or enforce the recovery of debts from 
Macau. So for the VIP room subcontractor,   being able to secure repayment 
through ... other ways was essential. ## Explosion This VIP room subcontractor system 
helped supercharge casino revenues. Starting in 1985, gross casino revenue 
grew 10 times over from $225 million to   $2.35 billion over ten years later, 
or at about 20% growth each year. But directly involving organized crime 
rings in the gambling operations had very   foreseeable consequences. By the late 1990s, 
there were over 10,000 individuals working   in these gray-zone activities. Macau only 
had 4,300 policemen. Not all of them clean. Conflict and violence between the triads - which   usually took place underground 
- spilled out into the open. The violence dates as far back as 
1993, with the gunning down of Hong   Kong gangster Chan Yiu-hing or "the Tiger 
of Wanchai". It triggered a series of wars   between the Hong Kong and Macau Triads, 
as the former tried to muscle into Macau. But it really peaked in the final three 
years before the Handover. Over 122 people   died in the ensuing violence - arsons, shootings, 
fire-bombings, kidnappings, and assassinations. The government’s attempts to impose peace 
only triggered more violence. Examples of the   violence include the following: In November 
1996, the vice director of Macau's Gambling   Inspection Bureau was shot twice in the back by 
a motorcycle gunman. Fortunately, he survived. A Hong Kong businessman killed in April 
1997 outside the Hyatt Regency Hotel.   Targeted likely because of his business 
of bringing in tourists from overseas. A high profile hijacking of one of the 
jetfoils traveling back to Hong Kong.   Hundreds of thousands of dollars were 
stolen. And particularly infamously,   the heads of two women found in 
a bag left behind in a hotel. Contemporary media reports oft 
attributed the violence to the   triads fighting for control over the 
lucrative VIP rooms. And hired gunmen   affiliated with the Chinese military brought 
in from over the border to fuel the fighting. The most well-known conflict was 
the one between 14K Triad senior   member Ng Wai and his flamboyant former 
protege "Broken Tooth" Wan Kuok-Koi. The latter is infamous for making a vaguely 
autobiographical movie called "Casino",   shot right on the streets of Macau. He wanted to shoot one scene on the Macau-Taipa 
Bridge - then one of only two such - and without   informing anyone closed down the whole bridge from 
both sides for two hours. The police did nothing. The violence made the world news and 
profoundly hurt Macau's reputation   as a tourism spot. This combined 
with the damage of the 1997 Asian   Financial Crisis injured STDM's 
revenues and the stock price. The fever finally broke in May 1998,   when Broken Tooth tried to assassinate the 
Chief of Police with a car bomb. Hours later,   the colonial government arrested 
him - but struggled to convict him. After two trials, he was finally convicted 
and jailed only a month before the Handover.   Meanwhile, the Chinese government sent 
a thousand policemen in Zhuhai to crack   down on the triads on their side 
- seizing Broken Tooth's assets,   jailing his associates, and 
ending the crime wave for good. ## The Monopoly Ends Stanley Ho had been hopeful that he 
could retain power after the Handover. He had always been a talented schmoozer - willing   to work with the government on 
whatever demand they might have. Very early on, he started 
connecting with high level   Party officials in an attempt 
to get his license renewed. Nevertheless, the new Macau government 
- and its new chief executive Edmund Ho,   no relation - ended the monopoly 
and opened the new gambling   concession to three potential bidders 
- including foreign gaming companies. There were 21 applicants. Stanley Ho won 
one of the three concessions through a   STDM subsidiary. The other two went to 
Wynn Resorts and Galaxy Entertainment. The new setup allowed for the three winners 
to sign sub-concessions. For instance,   Galaxy gave a sub-concession to 
Sheldon Adelson’s Las Vegas Sands,   which built the Sands Macau. Wynn 
gave one sub-concession to Melco PBL. And Ho granted sub-concessions to two of 
his 17 children - including his daughter   Pansy Ho. There has been a lot of 
family disputes over STDM control,   but at the time of Stanley's death in 2018 
- Pansy is the new head of the empire. Anyway all that drastically increased the 
number of casinos in Macau to some 36 in 2015.   Combined with a 2003 arrangement that brought 
a massive influx of people from the Mainland,   the Macanese economy has since 
surged to unprecedented levels. ## Conclusion
Whatever nostalgic feelings people might have had for the old Portuguese-led administration 
of Macau, those feelings will forever be   tainted by the rampant corruption 
and violence in those final years. The Portuguese in Macau failed to 
govern. Perhaps they never really   wanted to. Macau's fate had been sealed 
for years - basically since the 12-3   incident in 1966 - and that left its 
government in a lame duck situation. So the government stepped out, leaving economic 
governance to a single monopoly - collecting rents   on that. But in doing so, they lost control over 
the situation to the rich, the powerful and the   criminals. The consequences of this dereliction 
of duty were corruption, violence, and death.