- Hello, my friends and welcome. Today I've been challenged to build the tiniest gaming PC I can by our friends over at
Xbox Game Pass for PC, who wanted to sponsor a video to help promote their
brand-new game, "Grounded," in which you are an
incredibly tiny character in a very large world. So my first thought is to
not focus on the performance, but really to try to get the
smallest system that I can that will still run the game, which is where I had the idea to buy this Lenovo ThinkCentre PC with a Ryzen 5 processor and
decent integrated graphics. Now, my thinking is that
this will be my best option to get the smallest PC I can, however, the ability to play the game
is a little untested right now. - So I found out the
concept and it turns out, it had to be really small,
which meant not a lot of power. So of course that meant
that we had to put a lot of creativity into it, to sorta amp it up, and naturally, that was
on me to figure out. So, I'm thinking that
what would be the coolest for this is if we
essentially built a diorama, you're sort of looking at a chunk of grass with some dirt, maybe there's a little fake
puddle or something like that. So if we're looking down at our base, so if we had an Etch A Sketch, right, so we could take the glass
right out, and in theory, I guess we could fit a
monitor inside of there? - My only concern, we have to
make sure this's small, right? It's gonna be a really fine balancing act between cool and small, but I think if it comes down to it, we need to lean a little
bit more on the small side. All right, so it is
now time to test the PC to see if it will even work and if I can even play "Grounded" on it. So the only thing different between the last time we spoke and now is that I have now upgraded
this to 16 gigs of RAM, which, especially considering
that we have those integrated Vega graphics, means
that that extra bandwidth should make a big difference. - It'd be helpful if I could
make sure the heat sink is actually fully attached to the processor. - [Wes] I got you. - Yeah, if you just put
your finger right there, thank you, appreciate it. Oh no, I'm at nine FPS. Hold on, lemme check my
settings, wait, wait. - Hold on, I gotcha. - So, sometimes when
you're doing a project, you have to do what is known as a Plan B when your first plan doesn't work. I also probably should've mentioned that I have a $2,000
budget for this video, which is a good thing because I can now buy some more components and build a PC that
actually will work better, on the downside, I have
sunk $500 into this PC, which I now realize I
cannot use for this project. Wes, can you tell me what
you've been working on? (uplifting instrumental music) - All right, so we've cut the mesh and we've secured it to
the inside of the box. I would say it's plaster time. (uplifting instrumental music)
Plaster time! (uplifting instrumental music) While this first layer dries though, we have the next thing, which right here, we want a little fake footprint
with some fake water in it. So, I have an old boot, (laughs) and we're gonna cast this in plaster and then put it down there
and see what happens. (uplifting instrumental music) - So, a day of furious work later, we've actually made some real progress. So this actually looks really cool though. - [Wes] Thank you.
- When you first showed me this, I was so upset with the idea
that my portion of this build had been a complete and total failure, but thankfully, I've rectified that. So I have a few components here. Okay, so we have Ryzen
7 3700X, 16 gigs of RAM, as well as an X570-I Gigabyte board. So I have a Noctua NH-L9a cooler, so this is not the most
powerful cooler in the world, but the thing that I
really wanna be careful of is actually if we sort of mock it up. The motherboard doesn't
have a lot of space, so something like this, right? So when the board is living like this, we're basically gonna have
to route the PCIe riser cable around here, we still need
to get that exactly sorted, but, the thing is, I wanna
make sure this is no taller than it needs to be because we don't have that much space in the back. - [Wes] So we have the
power supply in there. - [Austin] Which is a...
- [Wes] 650... - 750, it's a Corsair SF750, So it has a small form
factor power supply, that saves us a lot of space on the inside and we can sort out all
the cables and modulars so it's all nicely routed. - Yep, I kept everything elevated so we have all this cooling underneath. - Another major component here
is our ZOTAC RTX 2070 SUPER. Now this is important because
this is one of the most powerful small graphics cards you can get. So if we really wanted to go really tiny, we could've gone ITX,
we would've had to go for a much less powerful card. This is only, I think, seven inches long, or eight inches long? It's much smaller than a normal card. - It's very dense though. - That is going to live
somewhere like this, right? Something like that?
- Yeah, again we're gonna have to shave off a little bit of
this extra plaster, but yeah. It's gonna poke out, the
board's gonna poke out, and then once we have our
artificial grass in here, it's gonna look like it's-
- It'll be nicely buried in- - Yeah, we'll have some nice depth. - So, do we actually
wanna just plug things in and make sure that all
the cable runs are fine? - Yeah, that would
probably be a good idea. - So this is gonna be an interesting run. So, this is about as long of a riser cable as I feel comfortable running. So, actually, you know what? We could do a test boot if you
wanna hold all the components or keep them on the table so they don't all come crashing down. - I don't know if we have
enough slack to put it, can you grab the iFixit kit? - I can shimmy that under.
- [Austin] Yep, right here. - Look at that test
bench provided by iFixit! Power supply on, run. (perky techno music) They're spinning.
- [Austin] Can I see, is the CPU fan spinning? It's not, but give
it a second, it's posting. Yeah, there we go.
- [Wes] There we go, alright. Hey, look at that!
- [Wes] All right. - [Austin] Oh, it's actually
posting into Windows right now. - If I wear a green suit,
you can just key me out. (Austin laughs) - All right, all right, all right. Lemme just kill the power on
this guy really quick here. (tool whirring)
(calm upbeat music) Yeah.
- [Wes] All right. (air spraying)
(Wes laughing) - [Austin] It's good, if we can get this to stay in place, it's done. - You wanna hold this guy? - Yeah, I'll hold on both, actually. - Okay, cool, I'm gonna
get some coffee real quick. (calm upbeat music) If you let me twist this around here. - So, that positioning is
good, if it's up a little bit. This I think we just
need to tilt it one way or probably tilt it a little like this, just to sorta match the angle, and I think we're pretty
much set on the computer. - Yeah, and I'll give it a little bit more of a riser underneath to support it. - How do we take apart an Etch A Sketch? - I don't know if I wanna
actually take it apart. - [Ken] I was gonna say, like, why are you taking it apart when there's already one on the table? - [Austin] That's a good point, why do we have two Etch A Sketches? - I was afraid I was gonna
really mess the first one up, so I bought a second one just in case. - Oh, this was just for fun? - Well honestly, I don't think
I messed this one up too bad. - Let's just use that one then! - Okay, does that mean I get
to keep the Etch A Sketch? - Sure.
(Etch A Sketch rattling) - So, I think step one is I'm
gonna put that guy in here, we're gonna take some measurements, and by measurements, I mean, I'm gonna ballpark it with a Sharpie. So now we're gonna try gluing it in. - [Austin] Okay, you got super glue? - [Wes] I have super glue. - I'm gonna let you be
in charge of super glue, 'cause I still glue my
fingers together every time. - Would it make you feel
better if I just did it too? Just give you solidarity.
- Can you build it there? Are you just dropping it in? - [Wes] Yeah.
- [Austin] That's it, that's all the glue? - Yeah, sure.
- [Austin] Are you sure that's okay?
- [Wes] Yeah, we'll find out. - Just a measure, was it? "A good tailor measures
twice and cuts once?" - Measure twice, cut once? Yeah, no, I have not measured
and I'm about to cut. Okay, hold it, here we go. (fast-paced instrumental music) - [Wes] Look at that. - That actually does
look really good, wow. That looks so legit,
look how good that looks. So we're gonna have a little bit of overscan, that's totally fine. - So we have this right-angle
adapter to help us out, and this is the USB-C power cable around? - [Austin] It is right here. I'll plug into
one of our USB three ports just in case it needs to touch more power. - So, walk me through this. So I'm gonna basically run it over the top of the power supply and
through that little hole? - Yeah, we're going to scoot it through, and I'll help you pull it apart. So we'll grab that, and then we're gonna
thread our HDMI through, this is something...
- [Austin] Oh, dude! - Which will rotate.
- [Austin] Very gently rotate. - Very gently.
- Alright, I think it's time. Can we fire it up and see the
monstrosity that we built? - Yeah, where is the... (calm upbeat music) All right, is it coming up? Yay!
- [Wes] All right. - So now I need to tweak the display, make sure our setup is all up-to-date. We have "Grounded" downloaded, and then once we're done decorating, we're ready for the final reveal. (calm upbeat music) And so, with some decoration done, we have our "Grounded"
tiny gaming PC complete. Wes, I am so happy with how cool this is. - Yeah, no, I am stoked. Just, all of the little
touches really came together. My favorite is still the
little people in the canoes, and it's kind of an Easter egg,
so you have to look for it, but you can see the boot print in there. - We still have a little
bit of room for airflow, so we actually cleared a
little bit of a pocket here so the graphics card can breathe, the CPU, while maybe not running ice cold, is still completely within spec. Ultimately, I love the
layered effect here. It has a good sense of depth and you get a real good
sense of scale of everything. And just, overall, for something that came together pretty
quick, I'm really jazzed. I think this is honestly one of the coolest-looking things I've built. - So, of course, this entire
project has been sponsored by Xbox Game Pass as well as "Grounded." So if you guys are not familiar, Xbox Game Pass is available
for only $4.99 a month and it gives you access to
over a hundred amazing games including not only "Grounded," which we'll talk about in a second, but also major new titles
like "Halo Infinite," "Flight Simulator," all
of which is available for $4.99 a month. - Now I think it's actually time to give "Grounded" a try since it's the first time I'm playing the game since it didn't work with a previous plan. - Yeah, I hope it works. Between you and me, I hope it plays. - So, the idea with "Grounded" is that it is a first-person game that is all about putting
you in a tiny world where a baseball is the size of a house, and that's what we were
really trying to go for with the build, right? With the small people, with
the grass, with the wood, especially these sprigs of
grass, almost perfectly match, I guess we could have had like a baseball or we could have had some
mushrooms or something, but I'm really happy with this, especially the way that we've
integrated the screen inside. So we're actually running it slightly less than 1080p right now, we had to do a custom resolution because the screen's not fully
being shown right now, but we've got like 90
frames per second on "Epic." Whoa, what is that? Is that a baseball? Oh man, all right, what are
we doing here, what is this? Pebblet? Okay, I'll take a Pebblet. Oh, I can attack with it, oh, word, okay. - [Ken] There's some motion blur too. - It's really nice-looking game, no wonder we couldn't
run it on the first PC. I think I probably need
to build something. Oh, what is that? That's an ant, okay. Do I attack the ant? I think I attack the ant, right? Then he sends his buddies after? Oh, I got him, I got him. Then he sends his buddies after? Uh-oh, he's mad, he's mad, okay, okay. Oh, all the ants are attacking! Okay, all right, oh no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That was a bad idea, bad idea, bad idea. Go away, go away. go away. All right, did I outrun them yet? Nope, didn't outrun them. Oh, I'm about to die, aren't I? Oh, hello, little bug. What is this? What is that? Is that a shoe, is that a rock? What is that, what is that? I don't like that. Oh, those ants are not happy. What is this? Okay, we're friends, right? The ants are trying to find something, I'm just gonna oh, okay, that's a spider. That's a spider. Got him, got him. I got some spider silk. I'm so lost now. Oh, I am not going down there. Oh, hell no. Oh, wait, here's a computer. Okay, I need to analyze some things. (cheery music) Oh, what the, I can go third-person? Oh, I'm totally living in third person. "Threat engaged," what was that? Oh no! I died! No!
(cheery music) So that is "Grounded" and
this is the tiniest gaming PC. Well, okay, it's maybe a little bit bigger than it could've been, but honestly I think the aesthetic kinda really helps to sell the entire package. So what are you waiting for? Go sign up for Xbox Game Pass right now, it literally is the best deal in gaming. Anyway, again, huge thank you to Xbox Game Pass for
sponsoring this video and let me know in the comments below, what tiny/slash giant
PC should we build next? Please make it not hard to build, 'cause this was a lot of work. (relaxing music) They're not gonna do that, are they? - [Ken] Probably not.
(resounding music)