- Thank you to LastPass for sponsoring this portion of the video. Hello and welcome back to "Wishtery Tech" the dumbest show on the internet where I buy random things on Wish and make fun of them
for the next 13 minutes. Hold on a minute. That looks ridiculous. They're triggers for an iPhone. I mean, yes. Is the answer, yes. You can buy an entire gaming PC kit. So they've very carefully blurred, what the chip is. It seems like it comes
with a cooler though. I'm really tempted by this one but $760 is about $500
more than this is worth. - [Ken] But we have to try it for science. - [Austin] I'll add it to the cart. We'll consider it. 760 bucks though, man. Galaxy Z, flip fold case. Do not fall off. Bare metal feel. Accurate hole position. (record screeching) Wait, wait. (Austin exclaiming) It's a USB cable with a hidden SIM card where you can use it to GPS track people. So weird. I mean, this is definitely
creep town, 5,000. What is this? 2018 fashion mirror book air. It's like a mini little MacBook but it's actually a mirror. So you can use it as a little mirror. Hold on a minute. You knew that $700 motherboard
CPU combo I found earlier. I found one with RAM included for $470. They're trying to rip me off. They're trying to rip me off. Mini 4K HD my video capture card. This is what everyone's been
using for Twitch, right? The i12 pro, its the iPhone 11 but with four cameras. - [Ken] Close enough. - 95 bucks. Done. Our grand total is $635 but with my promo code, it's only $508.61. That might be the least
amount of money, we've wasted on Wish since six months ago. - [Ken] You mean the last video? - Yeah, that one. Yeah. - [Ken] Okay. Thank you to LastPass for sponsoring this portion of the video. So the holiday shopping
season rolling around, LastPass is the perfect companion to keep your online login safe and secure. Not only will it auto-fill your passwords and help you generate brand
new super secure ones, across pretty much all of your devices, including insight, apps and webpages. But on top of that, it
will also give you a full, unlimited supply of passwords that you can keep nice, safe and secure. On top of that safety and the security, LastPass does have now
dark web monitoring. So if an account that you
have across the internet is breached or hacked they will give you a heads up and they have a very helpful
security dashboard available, which will give you a heads up, if say, you have a webpage that has, I don't know, the same password used a few times. You may want to change that out with one of LastPass'
super secure passwords. And if you want to share
a password securely, you can do that directly through LastPass to friends or family. So if you want to check out LastPass to actually have 40%
off of LastPass premium for a limited time only, you can check that out by going to LastPass.com/AustinEvans40 or by visiting the link
in the description. But keep in mind that this offer is only
available until December 8th. Thank you very much to LastPass for sponsoring that portion of the video. Now back to the "Wishtery Tech" action. Welcome back to "Wishtery Tech." It has been roughly two months since I last ordered products and I've forgotten literally
everything that I ordered. So, let's see what this is. Oh. Oh, I know what this stupid thing is. We ordered this back before the days of the iPhone 12 being announced and this is the i12 Pro. Now, apparently it has eight gigs of RAM and 512 gigs of storage, which sounds like a great deal. More than you get on the
actual iPhone 12 Pro. Okay, definitely some
Apple grade packaging. So if you subscribed to our
second channel, "This Is," you'll know that we did an entire video on a fake iPhone we got from Wish. That one was pretty solid. This is not, okay. All right. I'm so disappointed. So disappointed, immediately. - [Ken] Is that a Pixel? - It looks like a Pixel. You trying to tell me that's an iPhone? - [Ken] They didn't even try! - They didn't even try! Look at the chin! Do you see the size of the chin? - [Ken] The forehead is kinda there. - But you know what? It's got an HD camera. How can you argue with a deal like that for whatever the hell we paid for this. - [Matt] $95, plus $12 in shipping. - [Austin] Welcome. - [Matt] Oh, there's that, there's that Chinese text. - Okay, so this is just Android with a couple of iOS icons. Can you see this? (Matt exclaiming) Do you see? Look at, look at this. Do you see the frame rate
as I move my hand here? Ready and... (phone chiming) - [Ken] Wow. - That was so underwhelming. Wow. The photo nicely captures but it took so long, my happy
face went to a very, like, disgusted, confused face. This is not an iPhone 12. If you buy this thinking
you're gonna get an iPhone 12, you were sadly mistaken and Wish deserves to take your money. I don't think I've been this disappointed since the last time I
bought something on Wish. So let's move on to the next item. I'm sure it'll be much better. (Ken nervously laughing) - [Ken] I don't know about that one chief. - All right, next up we have, a USB cable. Oh, this is the sketchy bull (beep). Okay. So on the surface this looks like any standard USB cable. You look on the back, just gives you a bunch of
stuff about data transmit. You could easily pick this up at a store and never think twice. You can hand it to someone
that you want to spy on because this is our GPS cable. So I guess the idea is that you give this to someone who you want to spy to. Like, "Oh here, I got you a cable." They plug it in. And then you're being all creepy. I wonder if this actually works though. I wonder how this works. So the cable looks like
a normal lightening port. I mean, I guess the only I can say is that the USB-A is a little
bit thick but come on. If I handed you that cable,
would you look twice at that? - [Ken] Probably not. - That looks fine. That's what it is right there. - [Ken] I don't like that. (Ken nervously laughing) - So it's a MediaTek processor. So we have inserted a GSM SIM card. So it actually specifically calls out. It will work with a few
different frequencies. If this actually works,
this is some scary (beep). Okay, plugs in like a normal cable. Now, if I plug it into
the iPhone, will it work? It does. Okay. - [Ken] Oh, it charges. Okay. - Which makes sense, right? If you're trying to spy on someone, you wouldn't give them
a fake cable, right? It's got to be able to charge. - [Ken] It needs to
power itself on, right? - Yeah. Okay, I can't really understand this. Texting is not actually
doing anything though. So I've texted it a bunch
of different things. All the different codes it tells me none of them give me anything back. Huh? I mean, I don't know what to say here. I mean, I can believe
that there's a scenario in which this works but
we've got a SIM card in it which supports the right frequency. We're in an area where I can see we have great service on the network. I feel like we could probably figure out, how to make this work. And I kind of don't want to. Don't track your friend's, kids. 'Cause that's illegal. I think. Probably. If it's not, it should be. Let's throw the cable in the garbage. - For sure. - [Ken] A hundred percent. Woo! All right. What do we have next? The Helmet PUBG Gadgets. So the idea is, I believe you
have triggers on the back, which then essentially just
touch the top of the screen. Okay. Now I see why they call
it The PUBG Helmet. It's well, the PUBG helmet. I don't know if you can- - [Ken] Wait, you didn't get that when you saw it on the box? - Yeah but I thought they
were just like, making a joke. It actually, legit, looks
like the PUBG helmet. All right. Theoretically, I have this now set up. So, let's see if it actually works. Oh, here we go. All right. Look at that! Dude! This is actually really good. Well that's okay. - [Ken] Oh, use it to your advantage! He doesn't have what you have. - Ah, I'm trying. I'm not gonna lose to the bot. - [Ken] He's running away. Get him! - There we go. Look, I am absolute trash. This feels like I'm using,
like, a normal controller. I'll be completely real with you. If you play a lot of, sort of
first person shooter games. Specifically stuff like PUBG which will allow you to
move the interface around because ultimately with these controls you do need to have it up on the top left because you can't and it
won't extend any farther. But if you're playing a game like PUBG that allows you to reorder things, this is actually really good. And ultimately the controls are usually the main issue for me with playing games like this on my phone. I hate just going full touch controls. I mean, of course, for the
best sort of experience, you can get yourself a controller but I've never actually really liked the controllers for phones. Mostly because usually you have
to put your phone in a clip. It's a little bit sort of big and bulky. This is small enough that you
don't even really notice it but you get that nice, tactile feedback. - [Matt] It's cheap too. - How much was this? - [Matt] This was $5.35, with $2 shipping. - Seven bucks? 1000% worth it. Finally! Something in this
video that doesn't suck. Thanks Wish. You know what? I am now feeling much
better about my life. Usually when we do "WishteryTech," it's just pain and misery
from all the money we waste. But this time, I have
a little mini MacBook to make me feel better. The MirrorBook Air. So, this is almost entirely
some goofy, funny joke. It is based on the MacBook Air but in case you're not an astute viewer, the pun is it's a mirror instead. Ha ha, hilarious. Did I buy this because I thought this is a really cheap MacBook? Maybe. but oh, okay. That is an actual Apple logo. Oh, okay. - [Ken] Let's be real here. You bought it for the thumbnail. - I may or may not have
bought this for the thumbnail. I bought a... Look, it's so cool though. So, the Apple logo is upside
down when you open it. Unlike a real MacBook. How? How did you let it get to this point? (sad piano music begins) You started out with
real honest tech reviews. People respected, you until
he put two power supplies in that one computer in "Scrapyard Wars." And now you're talking to a mirror, reviewing garbage from Wish and you're just hoping, hoping - - [Matt] At least we will didn't put you in a costume from Wish. - Because I bought these items. If you guys picked it, I would definitely be dressed
up as Big Bird right now. Oh wow. What do we have here? This is fun. It never ends. We have so much randomness. Oh, the capture card. I definitely looked at this for a minute. I was like, I have no idea
what the hell I bought. All right. So there are many different capture cards, that you can purchase. Many of them sold from Elgato. That you can use to run your camera or your game console,
whatever, into your PC. So you can record a stream. Now the problem with
these, is that they're, well, first of all, some of them were actually
really hard to find this year. And more specifically than that, they're all a little bit
on the expensive side which is where the Video Capture with Loop device comes in. So this has an HDMI input as well as a micro USB for power. And on the other side, it
will loop that video out as well as it has a USB-A
port, for some reason. How do you connect this to your PC? It comes with the micro USB cable which I believe is for power but to actually get it to your computer, you need a USB-A. A male USB-A. - [Matt] USB-A to USB-A. - [Ken] Wait but it
didn't come in the box? - It didn't come, no, that's literally it. It was supposed to come with this. Fast forward to when we
acquired a USB-A to USB-A cable. And why don't we see
how our "WishteryTech" game cap. will work. So I'm going to plug it
into the Surface Laptop Go. Not a device that I think should be particularly well suited
to streaming but it works. Oh, okay. I'm getting some color bars. So something's happening. Let's plug this into the X-Box and monitor and see what happens. And we will plug... Oh, well that immediately works. - [Ken] So this is over USB-2. - USB-2. It's probably 1080p,
30, would be my guess. Hey, there we go. I'll free up space later. So yeah, I mean, this just seems to work. - [Ken] So wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait. - [Austin] That looks like 30. - [Ken] That looks like 30 but
there's basically no latency which is something that
I've always expected out of USB-2 capture cards. - [Austin] Though, to be fair, you can just spend just
a little bit more money and get a similar version to this except that it will
support 4K pass-through and that you can get on
Amazon for like 10 bucks more. But I mean, it is what it says it is. It does what it says it does. Especially if you're just
getting into streaming this is a good way of going. I'll say thumbs up. Mostly. - [Ken] Except, you don't
have to get it from Wish. - Well, as always, you never
have to get anything from Wish. We just do it because
it makes stupid videos. (Austin humming) Is that the motherboard you
just tossed on the table. I saw you like hesitate for a
second and then you lobbed it. All right. You obviously have tried to
build PC components from Wish. It's never really ended well. Let's see what we got here. We have a SATO cable, a IO shield and A55 motherboard with a, no CPU. Is this everything that came in the box? There's nothing else here. 'Cause there's literally
just a motherboard here. - [Matt] Yep. - [Austin] This is supposed to be a CPU motherboard and RAM combination. - [Matt] And a cooler. - How much was this again? - [Matt] This was $471! (Austin screaming) (Austin breathing heavily) - Are you trying to tell me, I spent almost $500 on Wish.com for a motherboard that
is worth at most, $27? No CPU, no cooler, no RAM. I'm just gonna snap it in half. I'm just gonna snap it in half, it'll make me feel better. - [Matt] Don't snap a $471 motherboard! That thing's worth $471. - Oh, that's actually really strong. - [Matt] See, it's that
$500 build quality! Feel like the tip off should have been when it said it was an AMD
four core dual core CPU. Actually it never once
says a good brand included. It never said any of these things. There's just a picture
that shows RAM and a CPU and they just call it motherboard package. - All right, I guess that's it then. Thank you very much for watching this episode of "WishteryTech." I hope you're subscribed because if you subscribe, I can promise you that you
will never ever have to see another episode of
"WishteryTech" again, probably, as long as you have that bell rung and my heart in your hand. What does that mean? It means that I'm just trying to keep that little voice inside
myself from screaming. I'm screaming right now. Thank you, Ken. I feel better about my life now that I don't have to
look at my $470 mistake.