- AMD. That's what this is, just AMD. Okay, sure, ASUS put it together, so they get to put their logo on the lid. But under the hood, it's got an AMD Ryzen
5900 HX 8-core processor an AMD Chipset and an
AMD Radeon RX 6800M GPU with an AMD chosen FreeSync premium panel running at up to 300 Hertz. Also it's got AMD smart
access memory technology allowing the CPU to access
all of the GPU's memory and AMD SmartShift technology which dynamically allocates
power between the CPU and GPU depending on the load. That's a lot of AMD. But how does it all come together? And can they truly make team red a viable option for gamers on the go? Like go to school or
have divorced parents, or need to carry their
computer around with them for some other reason, reasons like, our sponsor, Crucial. Crucial has been making high quality RAM and SSDs for over 20 years. And with their Crucial system scanner tool finding the perfect parts for your system is now easier than ever. Check out Crucial at the link
in the video description. (upbeat music) - AMD's big message today is around their AMD advantage design
framework initiative. Which is a technical way of saying that while AMD doesn't appear to have a formal certification process, they will collaborate with
laptop brands to ensure that their product meets
certain guidelines. So a laptop branded this
way should have a high-end Zen 3 CPU and RDNA 2 mobile GPU, support for AMD SmartShift and smart access memory
enabled by default, A 144 Hertz IPS or OLED
display with FreeSync premium and DME storage, and over
10 hours of battery life during video playback. You can think of it kind of like Intel's Ultrabook
platform back in the day, except for, it's for Tungus'
gaming laptops instead. And the ASUS G513 Advantage Edition is one of the first laptops
to roll out of the program. Which is all fine and good, but the big news here is like.. What? A competitive high-end mobile AMD GPU. Yup, this puppy packs a Radeon RX 6800M, which would theoretically
make this capable of 4K 60 FPS gaming, if we bought into the marketing. You see, like Nvidia, whose GeForce mobile GPUs are
generally beefed-up versions of a tier lower than their
model number would suggest, AMD is playing things
relatively fast and loose and their specs aren't quite the same as their desktop namesakes. So, on paper at least, the RX 6800M with its 40 compute
units is more comparable to a desktop RX 6700 XT
than to a desktop 6800. And then, there's the RX 6700M and 6600M with 36 and 28 compute
units, respectively. And neither of those look
like anything we've seen from AMD to date. Probably because they
didn't bother launching the low-end desktop cards
that they had planned for those GPU cores because of
the ongoing Silicon shortage. Though AMD would neither
confirm, nor deny. The 6600M in particular
looks a little anemic, but then we've also seen the 6700 XT perform surprisingly well on the desktop, despite its compute unit deficit. So, maybe there's more to the story. And, there almost certainly is. You might recall us mentioning
that Nvidia's RTX 30 series mobile GPU's are actually
misleading in their own way. The thing is, an RTX 3080 can have all the CUDA Cores in the world, but if the clock speeds are limited by a power or thermal constraint, performance is going to suffer. And the sheer number of laptops out there with TDP's that were well below what the 3080 needs to stretch its legs created so much confusion
in the marketplace that Nvidia yielded and started amending the rated TDP of the GPU to
their laptop spec sheets. So, then AMD might use lower tier chips but they're also making a big deal out of setting firmer power guidelines by explicitly stating that the RX 6800M for instance is 145 Watts and above. Though, with that said, what the heck is this up to nonsense on the 6700M and the 6600M. AMD please. You can't just do better
than Nvidia for one skew. You gotta be consistently better. Like, our quality
products at ltdstore.com. Got CPU shirts. Now to be fair to AMD, they're relying on implicit support between their Ryzen 5000 series CPU's and Radeon 6000M GPU's for SmartShift, which allows for power and thermal budgets to be dynamically allocated
to the CPU or the GPU depending on the load on each. So, in a nutshell, what
this could look like is a CPU bound game, favoring the CPU while a GPU bound game will
pump more juice into the GPU. So it's the same overall
power and thermal output but it gets divvied up wherever it makes the biggest difference. That makes sense. And Nvidia actually has
a similar technology except it needs explicit support from laptop manufacturers
rather than just being a given. That is a major advantage of AMD being so vertically integrated. Unfortunately though, we only have one all AMD laptop here today and it's equipped with
the Radeon RX 6800M. So, we can't dig any
deeper into that for now. In order to keep our testing simple, we grabbed the ROG STRIX G733Q, which is equipped with the same CPU but with an RTX 3080 mobile GPU. Now, bear in mind that this
isn't a full in-depth review of Radeon 6000M even. We're to cover it in more
detail later, so get subscribed. But for now we want to
taste the performance and we want to see if
AMD's numbers, hold water. Now, Metro Exodus may
be an older title now but it just got an enhanced upgrade. So it's a great candidate
to test both rasterized and ray traced performance. At 1080P UltraP, the Radeon
ends up neck and neck with the RTX 3080. While with ray traced
global illumination enabled, we're seeing Nvidia's more
mature ray tracing cores work their magic. Still though, we're within about 13% so, it's not like this is a
catastrophic loss for team red. It does get a little worse
in the enhanced edition but for an exploration
heavy game like this, it is still plenty playable, something we couldn't have said about at high-end AMD laptop.. Ever. The faster paced Forza
Horizon 4, meanwhile, well, again, it's not a bad experience but we're down as far as
25% slower in minimum FPS versus Nvidia, which isn't
really what we were expecting given the strong rasterization
performance we saw earlier. As for a much lighter title, CSGO, well, it provides
Nvidia with another lead but the difference is
in the 10 to 18% range. So, not game-changing, but
certainly not terrible. Of course, performance is
only one part of the equation and AMD is claiming that
they have significantly better performance characteristics on battery than the competition. So we pulled the power adapter and set the laptops to performance
mode to see what happens. Again, Metro Exodus gives us pretty much identical performance
between AMD and Nvidia in traditional rendering but
the performance difference when turning on ray tracings seems to be much smaller than before. As for the enhanced version, which has ray tracing locked on, Nvidia loses frames as expected and AMD loses them harder. Forza gives AMD a slightly better loss than its previous twenty-five percent. And again, it's still quite playable. And the situation in CSGO actually looks a little better for
AMD on-battery than not. Meaning that we might be seeing SmartShift doing its thing here. Though, it's still hardly a victory. Now, to be clear we're not calling AMD's performance claims BS, we just have a very limited amount of time to try to find games where
they were actually able to pull off an advantage. And honestly, I am excited
enough to see a return to competition in this market that it's easy to overlook some boards. Moving on, this may be
a gaming oriented laptop with a gaming oriented GPU, but you might sometimes want to do, I don't know, rendering
or something like that. And for that, it looks like
it's fine, but not amazing. It consistently comes in around 60 to 80% of Nvidia's results in
standalone render benchmarks and as for SPECviewperf, well, we saw some hints that it
might be a better match than Nvidia for some
professional workloads with even performance in
3DS max and wins in medical and Siemens NX. Now, that energy score looks really bad, but realistically you're
not doing anything like that on a laptop anyway. Now, because our GeForce
equipped STRIX G733Q is a 17 inch laptop compared to a 15 inch, so, presumably it has
larger beefier coolers. We're not able to read too
much into these numbers but AMD's thermals also
seem to be well-controlled. So maybe it's a pretty
apples-to-apples comparison. I mean, we didn't see temperatures
higher than 77 degrees at full load, which is pretty interesting Given that this is 145 watt TDP GPU, but that only drew 116 watts at peak. Meanwhile, the RTX 3080 mobile variant that it was up against
was a 130 watt card, but that drew over 140 watts peak. This is likely down to Nvidia's
opportunistic boost behavior and explains why the thermal
output was roughly the same. Interestingly though, AMD's core clocks were solid throughout. So, it doesn't seem like
it was limited in any way. So, in conclusion, while
power consumption looks good, it's a little disappointing that performance wasn't chart topping next to Nvidia's best mobile
GPU in our test suite. With that said, I don't think it's the
real story here anyway. The real story is that there
is finally another contender at the top end, and that
means that you are more likely to be able to find a
laptop that fits your needs in this seemingly endless chip shortage. So, while past Linus
and maybe future Linus for that matter might say,
don't bother with this. Just buy GeForce. Present Linus is more likely to say, "Hey, look, they're
objectively, not terrible, even if they're not super competitive and depending on the
price you find them at they may even be good bang for the buck." So, there you have it. The age of the all AMD
gaming laptop is back. Or, here for the first time ever. (chuckles) And I'm ready for it. Just like I'm ready to
tell you about our sponsor, Setapp. Thanks to Setapp
for sponsoring this video. Are you using your Mac
to its full potential? You're Mac can do tons of cool stuff that you probably didn't know about like recognizing and
copying text from images, recovering important
files after you formatted your SD card by mistake,
retrieving what you copied to your clipboard months ago. So unlock and discover these
features and more with Setapp, it provides access to a
collection of paid productivity focused apps for your Mac and
every app on Setapp is curated to provide a boost to your productivity, just type what you need in the search box and find the right tool, immediately. There are hundreds of apps to choose from, like Luminar, a modern AI photo editor, the famous CleanMyMac, and much more. So don't wait. Supercharge your Mac by downloading Setapp at the
link in the video description. So thanks for watching guys. If you want to watch something else that's disrupting the laptop scene, go check out our video
on the Sensel touch pad. That's being integrated
into some laptops now. Seriously, that thing is
way more of a game changer than you could possibly
imagine a touch pad being.