- How many of you have dreamt
of a world with no wires? Not managed, not hidden away, just gone. Well we've made some progress, wireless keyboards and mice, depending on the model, are
almost indistinguishable from their tethered brethren. Wifi six is blazing fast,
under ideal conditions, but wireless displays that can run both at a high enough resolution
and refresh rate for gaming can only be found in unicorn fantasy land. (twinkling sound) Hey, did you see that? I knew it. Holy crap, hold on a second. Here it is, look at this. We finally found it. We found the entrance,
unicorn fantasy land, baby. Wait, this isn't unicorn fantasy land. How did this message from
our sponsor get in here? Ridge Wallet. Ridge Wallet has redefined
the traditional wallet with its compact frame
and RFID blocking plates. Keep your wallet bulge down and use offer code LINUS to save 10% and get free worldwide shipping. (upbeat music) Intel WiDi, or wireless display technology, first launched way back in
2010 and allowed video to be transmitted from your
PC to certain HDTVs. But while it was low latency it wasn't anywhere near good
enough for competitive gaming. And it got discontinued in
favor of Miracast anyway. Like WiDi, Miracast piggybacks on the same hardware as your
device's wifi network connection. That means it's fairly
ubiquitous these days. There's tons of devices that support it but it also means that both image quality and latency are limited to
what you can do over wifi. So they suck, but the
game I'm running right now this ain't no game folks. One moment, please. The game I'm running right now is at 4k 30 Hertz with no compression. On paper that is a whopping
six gigabit per second of raw data. That is well beyond the theoretical maximum of even the latest
wifi six routers and adapters. So, how do, PeakDo. Now I would like to begin by stating that the company that sent
us these wireless HDMI kits has done an excellent job
of trying to look as sketchy as humanly possible. (Hyena laughing noises) Their site is nearly
impossible to find unless you Google the product's
name specifically, the logo on their Facebook page looks like it was scaled in MS Paint. Their Twitter account has actually been temporarily restricted. And the two reviews of this
product on the official website were not only both posted
on exactly the same date, but one of them was even
written by the general manager of PeakDo. - [Computer Generated
Voice] Amazing product, it really work the same way
like HDMI cable, but wireless. - There's also basically
zero technical explanation for how exactly it
works with simple claims of a 60 gigahertz band running
at 3.96 gigabit per second, requiring a no installation or internet. Wow. Fortunately we're Linus tech tips. So we don't need no
stinking specifications. And the tech that they're
using is called WiGig or 60 gigahertz wireless. Now at 4k 30 Hertz, they are
nearing the seven gigabit per second speed limit of the
first-generation 802.11ad, which actually led us to believe that it might this one
right here, not this one might be a very early
product using the 802.11ay second generation Y gig standard. But given that it was scheduled
for a working group approval in September, 2020, and that
there have been other products making similar performance
claims since back in 2019 it seems unlikely, but I mean,
Hey, 10 80 P 60 ain't bad. Let's actually flip over
to this one for a minute to continue our demo. I guess this is a good way for us to demo the
simplicity of the setup hey. - [Plouffe] Yeah. - Here we go. Is there supposed to be
a light on the other one? - [Plouffe] Oh! - Oh, bloody hell I plugged
it into the onboard HDMI. (laughing) - [David] Been there. - 30 Hertz, pretty rough. 60, I mean, console kids
would have given anything for 60 FPS not that long ago. You know what? There's just
no other way to put it. This is impressive. You know, like look Ma, no lag. Oh wow. I still can't aim, but that's
a whole separate issue. Honestly, though, guys I don't expect you to take my word for it. I'm hardly a Counterstrike pro but you don't have to because
due to a miscommunication with my writer, we actually have an excess of evidence for how well it works. We used both our high-speed camera and NVIDIA's Eldoret display latency tester to validate PeakDo's claims. And if we look at both the average click to photon latency of the PeakDo and a regular old copper rates HDMI cable, they are shockingly similar, but the impressive thing isn't the speed at which
the data is being beamed. Radio waves through
air are actually faster than electronic signals through a wire like as Logitech loves bringing up about their light-speed wireless. The impressive thing is the seemingly negligible processing delay. Like clearly it's a pretty
difficult thing to nail down because most wireless HDMI
dongles that I've tried in the past add 10 or even tens
of milliseconds of latency. And this one, it just doesn't. Of course, that doesn't mean
that it's a perfect experience. I mean, here's something
you can do with a wire. Look at that. Picture perfect. Around a corner. Whereas with the PeakDo, I mean it's as simple as taking
something like this cute little pillow from
lttstore.com and oh, actually. No, seems to handle that. Okay, how about this water
bottle from lttstore.com? You told me it was going
to break it, Plouffe. What if I put it in front of the receipt? Oh, oh, there it goes. Okay now let's try it. Let's try the water bottle. This is a it's a good quality water bottle. Let's, wireless transmissions right? How is that working? Why is my hand blocking it and the water bottle
that, oh, it needs both. The point is it's fairly easy to stop. Now, 802.11ay is supposed to
deliver massive improvements to both range and data rates enabling transmission rates
of 20 to 40 gigabit per second and ranges in excess of 300 to 500 meters. That is absolutely incredible. And could allow 4K high refresh rate or 8K video transmission. But until we see some actual products it might as well be in
unicorn fantasy land. The real question though is
if Y gig has been around for over a decade and you get
basically the same latency results as you would with one of these why are we still using
cables like cave people? This article from PC World
called it pretty well back in 2013, when they
said it's not going to replace your wifi any time soon. 60 gigahertz wireless has
a naturally shorter range than your typical wifi. So that mini one we
showed you guys only gets to five meters of range
and cost 200 US dollars. And to get the 25 meter
advertised results of this one which I'm calling the chungus, you need high gain
beamforming, phased array antennas to boost the power. We don't know how much
this one's going to cost to North America because PeakDo is peak
random when it comes to communication, but it does 4k, so it's higher bandwidth. It has a built in USB
hub with power delivery. So you can single cable
dock to your laptop with it. And it has the same
negligible latency performance as the other one. So I would have said not
cheap, except that the price in UN on what was it like
AliExpress express or something. - [Andy] Yeah. - Oh yeah. Andy found it for 218 US dollars. So I don't know why the
other one even exists. Anyway, let's start walking. Shall we? And see how far we make it. Okay, let's go on a Float Plane. You guys aren't subscribed
to Float Plane yet. You got to get on Float Plane. There's definitely lots
of exclusives lately. So go check it out. Here let's play an exclusive. Alright, David versus Golinus,
do we have a tape measure by any chance or are we just winging it? Okay, is it still working? I mean, this is gotta be
like 10 meters at this point. How far are we? Wait, yeah 25 meters is pretty far. Holy bananas. It's, yeah. It's pretty far away. Hold on a second. It's still going fine, just fine. Wow, that's fricking awesome. This is really far, I see why
we decided to do this outside. Oh no, it's working perfectly. It's just the video that stopped. Oh no, I dropped the wifi. Oh. Yeah, all right. Fine, we'll just, here we go. It's still working, um. Hello, can you stop working
at some point, please? This is a lot of wireless HDMI here. Is it dead yet? Come on. Oh, there it goes. Oh, that's definitely 25 metres. That's nutty. I mean, no wonder the thing has a fan in the back to keep the transmitter cool. This right here, ladies and gentlemen, active cooling on your HDMI cable, kind of wish I could take it apart and see what makes it tick but there wasn't any
obvious way to get it apart without like damaging it. And there's another big
disappointment that hopefully PeakDo can address in the future. Despite this unit being
rated for 4k 30 Hertz which it works great for. What it can't do is 10 ADP 120 Hertz even though theoretically that has the same bandwidth requirements. We tried manually
changing display settings through Nvidia control panel, and it tries, fails and reverts back to 60 Hertz every time. If they could fix that 10 ADP 120 would make this easy to recommend for gamers who want to have
their TV across the room from their PC, with no
wires or have a projector up in the ceiling without
running an HDMI cable. Lots of things actually. And clearly it can be done. The HTC VIVE Pro VR headset runs at a whopping 2880 by 1,690 Hertz. But for whatever reason, pretty much no one has bothered to bring
high refresh rate wireless to the desktop. Though that isn't the end
of the world for PeakDo. There are lots of other applications
that you could use it for like sending a camera signal to a monitor, or when you want crisp
and precise demonstrations on a bigger screen without the hassle of staying plugged in since the latency really does
feel comparable to a cable but there's a huge asterisk and that's the interruptions
or choppiness that we noticed either when obstructing the line of sight or if the transmitter and
receiver aren't aligned very well. Now, the big 4k unit does
improve significantly on the small one, but without knowing the cost of this thing it's hard to recommend simply
going out and buying it. It's definitely cool technology though. And that is why we decided
to make a video about it, actually works really well. You know what else works? This segway to Squarespace. Squarespace is great. No joke, we actually use it. Both our linusmediagroup.com
and LTXexpo.com websites were built
quickly using Squarespace. And they're super easy to maintain if we need to make quick changes. If you haven't heard
already, Squarespace is an all in one platform that
makes it easy to get your website up and running quickly. If you have a home business,
you definitely need one. You can use it to sell things, you can choose from tons
of different templates. Just find the one that
makes the most sense for you and run with it. And if you trip while you're running and hit your face on
the ground, don't worry. Squarespace offers webinars,
a full series of help guides and you can even contact
their 24 7 support team to help you build your site. Just go to squarespace.com/LTT and get 10% off today. I mean, who knows guys maybe you've got a perfect use
case for something like this. I mean, it would be pretty
cool to stick a nook or something on the ceiling
and just have it transmit to a monitor for the
ultimate wireless setup. They've even got battery powered monitors. You could like trip
people out pretty good. Like, there's no computers. I, if you guys enjoyed
this video, by the way make sure you check out our are wireless gaming mice
actually faster video because the results might surprise you.