- Today friends is a momentous occasion because we're going to
be building the most ultimate of ultimate consoles, (box thuds) the Sony PSP. This was a console so
far ahead of its time. And I think, especially when you look at the Steam Deck and Switch
Oled, and all these things. It's time, Sony. Why don't you make a PS5 portable. Okay, shall we? (rousing triumphant music) Oh okay, I think there's
something missing, but we actually do have the PSP itself. Oh, yo! Ah-hah! You know what's my first thought is? This is so much smaller than I remember. Probably because my
hands were half the size at the time. Oh dude Yeah, this is,
this has games in it. Oh, my
(box clatters) - [Ken] I think that box
that I bought from eBay, not in the best condition, if I'm honest, - It's definitely a bunch of stuff- (box clatters) - [Ken] This just there. - You bought two PSPS? - [Ken] We've had that one for years and I forgot about it. - Can you just get a
closeup with this one? I'm gonna just show you
how long we've had this. (finger creaks) - [Ken] Oh, yeah. (Austin laughing) - Wait, I'm gonna finish
unboxing this one. And also look at all
the games, Resistance. We've got Coded Arms, Killzone which is actually pretty good. Grand Turismo, which I
actually really liked. All right, we've got ourselves the 32 gigabyte memory stick duo, which looks a lot like an SD card, but that is definitely something you want. - [Ken] You want, well it is here. (sealed wrapper thuds) - Oh, is this another one? Whoa, Ken, this is illegal. (Austin puffs) We can't show this on camera. - [Ken] What's that? - This is too much. So while it came with a 32
gigabyte memory stick duo, our resident mad lad, Ken
Bolido, has purchased this which is a full two gigabytes of capacity. Yes, friends, you didn't mishear that, two gigabytes of memory. - [Ken] Don't format that one. - Why? - [Ken] It has custom firmware on it. - Is this a jail break? It's got everything
for a jail break on it? - [Ken] Yes, granted well,
it's for a PSP 2000 and 3000. - It does say 3000 on the back of it. - [Ken] Yeah.
- Someone did write 3000. - [Ken] Unfortunately. - Dude, there's so much
to go through here. I'm not even done with the unboxing. (boxes thuds) Another PSP? Wait, this one- - [Ken] That's a 2000, I think. - It says 3000. - [Ken] 3000, yeah.
- So this is Very Japanese because I
feel like when you buy a console in Japan, it almost
always comes with the box. - You could hack that one there of if you wanna hack the blue
one, you could do that too. - How many PSPS do we have for this video? (Ken chuckling) - [Ken] This bag that
we have all the PSPS in. Also have this in there. Not that you could play it. (game cover thuds) - Is that an HD DVD of
"March of the Penguins?" - [Ken] Yeah. (laughs) - That's empty. - [Ken] Oh, whoops. (laughs) - [Austin] Set the time and date, 2004. Uh, I'm unfortunately gonna have to add a lot of years to that one. Dude, look at how good this interface is. This holds up so well. I'll say the screen, not as
great as I remember it being. When the PSP first came out, this thing was like a revolution. It was so much better than
like, I came from a Game Boy to the SP. We're all friends here, right? Can I let you in on a little secret? So one of the things that made the PSP, especially important to
me as a young, you know, bordering on teenager. - [Ken] Did you watch? - Absolutely, hundred percent. - [Ken] Oh my god.
- Hundred percent, the web browser and the wifi on this, used the neighbor's wifi and boy oh boy, was I incredibly amazed. - [Ken] Wow, I didn't
know you would go there. - The PSP man, the PSP. - [Ken] To be fair, that's
why we all wanted the PSP. - [Austin] Is this like
super old firmware? 1.5 that's early firmware. I actually don't wanna update this one. I actually kinda wanna see cause 1.5, that was, that actually wouldn't, I mean, it wasn't what it shipped with, but that was really early. I'm gonna just grab one of the other PSPS. So the PSP 3000 was, I
wouldn't say a huge upgrade. This was back in the days where Sony would do a lot of sort of smaller updates. So one of the big things you'll notice is that the door is now spring loaded, as opposed to on the PSP 1000 where it's a much more kind
of complicated mechanism. So if you pop up with
the PSP 1000, you know, it's actually almost a little bit of a nicer sort of design. With this, you just pop it open. It's much simpler, and I'll
also say that the PSP 3000 is far lighter than the 1000. (celestial music) Here we go. Signs of life. Oh, it's even at the
silver background too. Time to use my big brain
memory to figure out how to change my settings year. Oh, it's also, ahh! Ken, this is Japanese. This means that the X button
and the O button are flipped. Ahh! - [Ken] I mean, the way it should be. - What do we wanna
play, do you wanna play, Little Big Planet? - [Ken] Gran Turismo. Why can't we, I wanna do
World Series of Poker first. - [Ken] Why?
- I'm just curious. 'Cause Poker is a great game, Ken. Quick play, let's do it. - Yep.
- That's me. - [Ken] That actually
does kinda look like you. - How dare you. A Jack and a nine, that's
where a calling on. - [Ken] This is so visually boring. - And here's the flop,
I'm about to go all in. Watch me, watch me. Watch me, here we go. Oh, oh baby. (hand claps) I got three jacks, let's go, all in. All in, let's go. I mean sorry, Poker face. All in. (hand claps) I won, I actually won $1,100. Oh wait no, I put in a thousand dollars. - [Ken] So you made a hundred dollars. - Yeah. (box thuds) (box clatters) What is this? A component AV cable. Wait that used the same connector as like the headphone Jack? Well that's actually, oh my god. Okay well, so this is a PlayStation TV which we actually took a look at for our building the Ultimate
PS3, not that long ago, but this is a brand new
still-sealed connector that goes from a PSP 2000 or PSP. Wait, this is PSP 2000 only. - [Ken] Oh.
- Here's the PSP 3000, right? Well, that's unfortunate. You got me all excited. - [Ken] Yeah. - You gave the PlayStation
3D TV without P- (box thuds) Oh, what's that? I mean, it looks like it goes from PSP into this box then it goes into HDMI. - [Ken] Yes. - I feel like I'm slowly being
overwhelmed with PSPness. (sound whirring) So-
- [Ken] Wait. - Yup? Yeah, go ahead. - [Ken] Nothing just proceed. - Do you want to display
on a capable device? I do. All right, now it's supposedly outputting (playful music) something. Okay, My PSP screen is dead. So it is supposedly outputting right now. It's almost like a bunch of old technology is not working as well as it should. Judging on what I'm finding online. I actually don't
necessarily need this box. I think this component cable, even though it says it's for 2000, it looks like you can actually work this on the 3000 as well. Component activate, all right. Now, if I press this button, it should enable my PSP output. Ready, set. (playful suspense music) - [Ken] Well, the logo showed. Turn on the TV and off again. (playful suspense music) (Austin gasps) - It works, we did it! We did it, it's already deal to a PSP. We're done, congratulations. We're successful. All right, we got this. Look at this, look at our big
brain moves right now, Ken. We got PSP on the big screen. You know, I feel like we're in the middle of trying to build the Ultimate PSP, but we've quickly got sidetracked with literally nothing but piles of boxes, but I'm just playing the game right now. - [Ken] Mm-hmm. - And There's nothing ultimate about this besides I'm playing on a cool screen. - [Ken] Mm-hmm.
- Okay, cool, just double checking. - [Ken] Put on your
best Louise impression. - [Austin] Hello? Oh, you don't want me to do that. - [Ken] Knock 'em all off the track. - [Austin] You know the performance
actually isn't terrible. Like this doesn't look that bad. - [Ken] Framerate looks
pretty good, actually. - [Austin] Framerate, yeah. I don't know how well
you can tell on camera, but it's actually not bad. Look at this. It doesn't even sound that bad as well. Honestly, it's really impressive that this is running on a handheld that came out in 2004. Obviously the latter boxing
is pretty extreme, right? I don't know exactly
why that is, but I mean, this is 100% playable. And honestly, I don't think if we have this side-by-side with like a PS2 and like Gran Turismo 4, I don't think we would notice
that massive of a downgrade. This video is sponsored by Stamps.com. As life starts to get back to normal, there are a lot of things
to look forward to. One thing that can remain
a thing of the past is standing in line at the post office and paying full price for postage. With Stamps.com, you get the services of the US Postal Service and
UPS writes to your computer. Whether you're a small
office sending invoices or an Etsy or eBay shop
sending out orders, Stamps.com has you covered. You get discounts upto
40% off at the post office and up to 66% off UPS shipping rates. And with their switch and safe feature, you can quickly compare carriers to find the best rates every time. Print official US postage
24/7 for any letter, any package, any class of mail
anywhere you want to send. Once your mail is ready,
just schedule a pickup or drop it off. So stop wasting time
going to the post office and go to Stamps.com instead. You can use my promo code: AUSTINEVANS to get a special offer that
includes a four-week trial plus free postage and a digital scale. No long-term commitments or contracts. Again, go to Stamps.com. Click on the microphone
at the top of the homepage and type in AUSTINEVANS. Huge thank you to Stamps.com
for sponsoring this video. Why hello there and welcome back to the "Ultimate PSP Project" where I will now be demonstrating the PSP TV adapter plug and play, which is the same thing we just did? - [Ken] No, so this is for PSP 1000. It did not have a dedicated TV out and this was the next best solution. - Is this literally just like? - [Ken] Yes, it's a camera. - So this clip's supposed
to go on here, I think. (clip clicks) Okay. - [Ken] Thank god that plastic is scratch resistant too. - Oh, I just realized
this is even stupider. You're supposed to still use the controls with like, oh my God, it's even worse. So power on, and now she
get a signal of darkness. Oh no, that's good. That's good, the PSP's not on. Everyone ready to experience the greatest of the PlayStation portable? Okay, wait. So I gotta focus it?
- Focus. - That's fine, that's fine. Wait, let me get on an actual menu. - [Ken] So we're filming
a camera image of a PSP. - That's about as sharp as
I think we're gonna get. And I was playing with the brightness. You know, that's not awful. - [Ken] Take off the
camera, take off the camera. - Oh, yeah, great idea. Who needs to play games with it? Okay, Let's pop it off. - [Ken] Okay. There you go. Oh, let's use the camera,
let's use the camera. - Oh, and wow. - [Ken] Oh, I love MTV. - Hello and welcome to the Ultimate PSP. Yo, if this is 2005, that would be rad. We'd be making our montage. We're uploading it to YouTube, but like the old school YouTube, they had like SpongeBob episodes on the front page, be great. (box thuds) Invisibles Shadows Zone. Bro, you're bringing me back right now. I never played this, but this is like one of those things
they are trying to make, like the Sony version of like Pokemon or even like Digimon. But what was special about
this was that it came with the camera for the PSP. Now, we have to remember that this is on the PSP well before
cameras were around. So DSs started getting cameras in the DSI, but that was what 2008 no part 2009 or so. So we gotta start with the camera. Wow, that's tiny. So it's literally just a
very, very small camera. It's got the USB port on the bottom with a couple of pins and
the camera just rotates. So you can have it front facing, top facing or rear facing. Who needs to build an Ultimate PSP, whereas you can buy the
camera and call it a day. Oh, oh my goodness. The PSP lives. Okay, so it's a 480p VGA camera, but I also have movie mode. Switch to movie mode. All right, we have two
minutes of record time, 320p at 15 frames per second. So friends, you are now experiencing the majestic glory of a PSP camera that has been archived from the deep dark recesses of 2011. That audio sync, it might be the most atrocious
thing I have ever seen. Let's enter the Shadow Realm. I mean, the Shadow Zone. So have you played the first InviZimals? - [Ken] Wait, there's an InviZimals 1? - Apparently. So. Oh no, I have to watch a
cut scene now, don't I? - [Game] Your victory will be fretting. What is this? (jaunty music) Oh, look at that. Wow, look at that tracking. - [Ken] That's really cool, actually. - [Austin] On a PSP. - [Game] Whenever she lands very quickly, slap her with your hand. - [Ken] Slap her. (Austin chuckles) - I'm not gonna slap her with my hand. This is not a thing I'm doing. - [Game] Just be loud and quick and make sure you don't hurt your hand. (Austin chuckles) - What the are we listening to right now? - [Game] Start capture. - [Austin] Okay. (hand thuds) - [Game] InviZimal. (Austin laughs) - Bro, I miss the PSP man. This good stuff is great. - [Ken] So it isn't building the ultimate without stacking a bunch of stuff. Right? - I feel like we've looked
a lot of individual items, but I'm not looking. I'm looking at a regular PSP here. I need an ultimate PSP.
what'd you got for me? Holy Christ. (boxes clattering) - Is this ultimate or is this just big? Oh, wait a minute. Yo, I used to have this. The theater spirits. Aluminum case with built-in
rechargeable battery, amplified stereo speakers
and PSP system stand. Built-in battery adds up to
seven hours of play time, which is actually that's. - [Ken] That's actually a lot. - That's all like what,
double, almost triple the original battery. It recharges the PSP first,
then the built-in battery, which means that you can
use this as a power adapter and fun fact, I did use
that cause I remember I'd lost my PSP adapter,
It broke or something. Holy, yo. Yo what the, - [Ken] Remember this
is a different time, we- - This is back before we realized that plastic was no longer
a renewable resource. (cover creaks) Oh my god. (adapter clicks) Look at that.
- [Ken] Ooh. - Look at that. - [Ken] They don't make them like that- - Ooh. Woo-hoo! (Austin huffs) Ah, whoo! So I'm gonna pull it forward. - [Ken] Oh, that was so nice. If you have this then you were
the coolest kid on the block. - [Austin] So I got my Hi-Fi speakers. Let's give this a try. (upbeat whimsical music) I would say that's Hi-Fi ish sounds. - [Ken] That's better
than the built-in PSP- - [Austin] It is. So I do remember this is not like the most comfortable thing
to actually like play with since you know, your hands
are kind of cramped here, but you can hold it,
and it does actually do a good job of protecting your PSP as well. - [Ken] Look, I used
the PSP to watch videos, so this would have been amazing. - Hang on, what about our Stamps.com? I'm gonna open up, whoa, whoa, wait. There's also the movie dock. Holy, but this one has a remote. Who needs a remote control for your PSP? Oh, this is about to get wacky. We've got a handheld dock that looks powered by AAA batteries, boys. We're going for it. AAAs, you can't stop 'em. You can't stop 'em. - [Ken] And I hate 2005 again. - This is top tier actual,
most garbage town plastic ever. It's super like sort of janky feeling. You know like the type that like feels like
it's about half as thin as it should be. And about four times as brittle, like this down accurately portrays the quality of this particular item. My real issue as I'm trying
to build the Ultimate PSP, but all of these things work separately. I can't like put them all together 'cause they all want a PSP, but they want this port and that port. So if I fire this up. - [Ken] That's why about five of these because we have so many
PSPs and different acce- (whimsical music) Oh, there's some whining in that. (rousing whimsical music) That's loud though. - It's loud, but it sounds terrible. Wait, let me turn the volume down. You may not hear this in the actual video, but there's a very loud, high pitched, squealy electrical noise
coming out of these speakers. Open up the Stamps.com,
see if this is any better. That is some volume though. This feels far nicer. You can tell they put some money into it because there's a piece
of plastic covering up the glossy plastic here
to keep it protected. (rousing whimsical music) - Yo, that sounds legit. - [Ken] Oh my God. - I guess, this is garbage. We're just gonna put that away. - [Ken] That's the best one. - It's the best one,
the bestical testicle. - What no!
- Oh, jesus christ oh my god. (upbeat whimsical music) - [Austin] Yo, that is beast, whoa. (upbeat whimsical music) - [Ken] You know, that
sounds better than like a Google Home Mini. (upbeat metal rock music) - Oh the buttons work. The buttons work. (metal rock music) Yo, all right, look the bonus with PSP. Just buy a Stamps.com Plus available at your local best buy in the year 2005. Okay, I don't know why we're messing with all this other stuff. Okay? - So, that my friends is a
look at the Ultimate PSP. Should you ever build this? No. Should Sony build a PS5 PSP? Well, yes, yes they should. Is that the entire- - [Ken] That's called Remote Play. - Nope, it's called the Nintendo Switch in the DAWs steam link. And I don't need to
make another one please. Like seriously, give me
a portable PlayStation.