- Hey guys, this is Austin. If you use a PC, it's time to listen up. Put your nerd pants on and
let's take a little adventure into Danger Town. There's a new group of
exploits going around that can cause some
serious damage to your PC. So they take advantage of what is known as speculative execution,
and it's similar to some of the bugs we saw last year, including Spectre as well as Meltdown. Something as simple as visiting a website with malicious JavaScript or a little bit of a sketchy download could mean losing control
over all kinds of stuff which should be very
sensitive and private. So I'm talking about
passwords, encryption keys. As far as bugs go, this is
about as bad as it gets. Now I do want to stress that all this is theoretical right now, so researchers have found
these vulnerabilities and a lot of them have been patched so it's not out in the wild. But with these things,
it's only a matter of time before a plane goes overhead, and they start to make it into the wild. So last year brought us
Spectre and Meltdown, and at first, it seemed
like a major vulnerability. But of course, they were
patched before too much longer. However, at this point, it
is very clear that this is a new class of things that
everyone has to worry about. It's no longer just software. There's actual hardware vulnerabilities, which can cause major problems. So this actually boils down to a few different vulnerabilities that were all announced at the same time. So there's the super scary name of, oh god, do I have to say it? ZombieLoad, yes, ZombieLoad is something you have to be afraid of, or the much nicer name of MDS, because that sounds safe and generic. - I'm not, that's why
I don't want to say it. I don't want to say ZombieLoad. So what separates this
from traditional bugs that are much more software focused is that it of course is in hardware. So there are some patches and
some BIOS updates and stuff, and I'll get into that in just a minute, that helps to mitigate this. But at the end of the day, we
now live in a different era where hardware itself is being attacked on a very regular basis, which means that sure you can
always download a new patch, but if there's something
that's super fundamental to the actual hardware itself, it means, oh I need to buy a new processor
or upgrade my computer. Now we're not quite to that point yet, but it is becoming a very scary time. So we're definitely going
to get into Nerd Town here, but the way that this all
works is taking advantage of a feature known as speculative execution. So essentially what this means is that modern processors,
specifically on the Intel side, are always constantly trying to figure out what you're going to do
before you actually do it. So instead of saying, waiting
for you to say, open Twitter, it might have portions of that loaded or on a much, much smaller scale, like little tiny bits and pieces. But the issue here is a lot
of times when it's wrong, it just throws out that data. Normally no problem, no harm, no foul, and your computer's faster. However, people have
found that you actually can take some of that junk data, which on a massive scale can end up being full of passwords or all kinds of stuff, and actually harvest
it and then send it off to who knows where. It's a really scary thing. And the problem here is
that it's taking advantage of very fundamental things which legitimately mean that
we get a lot of performance out of our systems, or well, we lose a lot of performance if they're patched and
deleted and removed. Nothing like a bug, which not
only can compromise your data but the only way to fix it is to make your computer way slower. That's not good. That's not good at all. Because this bypasses
traditional software things such as antivirus as well
as all kinds of different operating system level security features, what this means is it's just pulling data straight off of the CPU. And while a lot of it is garbage, like I said, if you have
enough of this stuff and you kinda parse through it, you can very regularly
pull a lot of things that you absolutely do
not want to get leaked. This is something that is a big deal. So right now, this affects pretty much any Intel processor
made in the last decade. However, if you are using a
phone with an ARM processor or if you have an AMD CPU, it
actually doesn't seem to be affected just yet, but
don't get too comfortable. There are definitely more of these things that are coming in the future. So Apple, Microsoft, and Google
have all released patches, and a lot of the stuff
is doing things like patching the JavaScript and
patching the browsers themselves as well as operating system level tweaks, but at the end of the
day, you still do need an actual BIOS update,
which is coming from Intel, they've updated a lot of microcode, but still relies on your
actual hardware vendor delivering a brand new BIOS update and for you to install it. It's not as simple as
turning on Microsoft Update and being done. You actually have to make sure that everything is properly updated from browser to OS to BIOS. According to Intel, these patches mean that you're going to lose a
little bit of performance. So for the most part, it
should be somewhere between three and nine percent which
is certainly not insignificant. However, according to Apple,
it shouldn't be anything that's all that noticeable
in a browser such as Safari, so it's kinda hard to say exactly how big of an impact this will have. But there's no doubt that this
is not speeding anything up. It's going to make things
just a little bit slower. However, that is not the full story. So according to the security researchers who actually found this,
that's actually not even going to do the entire fixing job that we need. They actually recommend to
turn off hyper-threading, and that is a big deal, as hyper-threading delivers
a ton of performance to a CPU and if you lose that,
well, you're losing like up to 40% of your processing
power, so not good. Now, according to Intel, this
is not that big of an exploit where you have to turn off hyper-threading and lose that much performance. But Apple does disagree. So while by default when you
do all the most recent updates to macOS it still leaves it on, but they have introduced
a feature where you can not only harden the code a little bit more but importantly you can
turn off hyper-threading, which is great to make it a
super, super secure system. And then you say it's for people
who are at elevated risk of keeping state secrets on
your laptop or something, but it does mean that if you do it, you're going to lose a ton of performance. And it just so happens that
I have a MacBook in my bag that we can test with right now. Yeah, see. You were wondering why I had
the backpack on the whole time. It's because I was waiting for it. So to take advantage of
this, you do need a Mac which is fully up to
date with either Sierra, High Sierra, or Mojave. What you can do is you
can restart the system into recovery mode. This is the point where I realize that my Mac is not up to date. So it turns out that trying to
do a three gigabyte download while tethering is not the greatest idea, so it's the next day, I have my MacBook completely up to date now. So we'll see if the security patch actually makes any kind of
real difference to performance. To do this, you will need to boot your Mac into recovery mode and
then you'll need to put these two commands into Terminal, which I will have listed
in the description. But with that, we should now have multi-threading turned off. So if I restart the system. So the way you tell if
this actually worked is to open up System Report. In the Hardware, you will see that Hyper-Threading now shows Disabled. If you're running an
earlier version of macOS, that won't even be an option. So now, let's actually see how much performance we lose
by hardening the system. I just like saying
hardening, it's just fun. So we'll let Geekbench do its thing. Now I do want to stress
this is not by any means a super scientific test, so obviously you would need
to do this multiple times, I would want to use multiple systems. I'm running on battery
for consistency sake. So take all of this stuff
with a grain of salt. But if hyper-threading
makes as big of a difference as I know it should, it won't be like, oh it's like two percent off or something. We should be losing,
again according to Apple, up to 40% of our
multi-threading performance by doing something like this. So our new score is 5,708 on single core which is basically identical. And the multi score
only went down to 23,000 as opposed to 25,000. So they had quoted a much,
much bigger performance impact. I almost feel like I want
to spend more time with this because one slight advantage
to this would be that, especially with the MacBooks,
given how much they throttle, this actually might make
a bigger difference. Okay, I feel like this is getting way outside the scope of this video, but even doing something like
disabling hyper-threading in a very much best case
scenario, not a big deal. Wow, I'm legitimately really surprised. That's crazy. MDS and ZombieLoad are
absolutely a new page in what will certainly be years of these brand new
hardware vulnerabilities that everyone really
needs to stay on top of. My advice, as always, keep your
operating system up to date, keep your browser up to date, and even pay attention to things like keeping your BIOS up to date. All of this stuff will
make a big difference and just pay attention. There's a lot of this stuff
that will be coming out, and we will be doing as
many videos as possible as these things kind of approach. But I don't know. It's not a good time for security. There's a lot of really
scary stuff that's coming up. And I know it's all
fearmongering and stuff, but it is legitimately
something to keep in mind, keep that stuff up to date, for real.