- Hey, what's going on guys? This is the Surface Pro X. And I really want to like it, but I don't. At least for right now. Now I've been really
intrigued about this product since I saw it a few weeks
ago at the launch event because it is a totally new Surface. It has thinner bezels, it has a slimmer form factor. The keyboard actually has
this really neat party trick where it hides the pen and
charges it at the same time, which is a great improvement
over the previous Surfaces. But it also, again, has stuff
that the Surface is known for, so the really cool hinge. And kickstand that's on the back. You can play around with all
different kinds of modes, especially useful for, you
know, say when you're drawing. Again, things that Surface is known for. But perhaps the biggest change of them all is under the hood. But first, a little bit of perspective. So this is the Surface Pro 7 and I've been using it as my daily driver over the past couple of weeks
over my 13 inch MacBook Pro with touch bar. And that's because I don't
really edit video much anymore. I don't need Final Cut Pro. All I do is web browse, I check email, and most importantly I've been
making our channel thumbnails using Photoshop. And honestly the killer
feature of it all is the pen. It just way more intuitive
to use with Photoshop. It's probably the reason why
I've stuck with this Surface for the past couple of weeks. But of course using Photoshop and the pen aren't really exclusive to this generation of Surface. But what is, is the fact that this year, there's a USB-C port, which is obviously great
for hooking up peripherals or even charging. And on the topic of charging, this thing will actually top off at up to 80% within an hour which is great because the battery life
isn't particularly special. In fact it's a little bit worse than last year's Surface Pro 6. And that's one of the biggest things that Microsoft hopes to improve
on with the Surface Pro X. And it plays into that big change that I was talking about earlier. So inside this is the Microsoft SQ1, which is an ARM-based processor that they co-developed with Qualcomm, that's based on their
8cx system on a chip. I mean this stuff is all really cool because we already see the
benefits of ARM hardware in stuff like smartphones and tablets. Things like peak power
efficiency, better battery life, balancing all of that with
really good performance. And all that on top of the fact that it's running full Windows, at least with some caveats. Now to be clear, this isn't the first time that Microsoft has
dabbled with ARM and PCs. The first two generations of the Surface were running Tegra hardware, which is essentially the grandfather of what's in the Nintendo Switch. And a few years ago we
took a look at this thing, which has a Snapdragon 835 in it. It kinda almost looks like a Surface. And it was running full Windows, but the performance
wasn't really that great. But nowadays, ARM hardware
is really really good. And the case in point
of that is the iPad Pro. And for all of the advantages
that that device has, it's not hard to see why Microsoft would want to take advantage of that. Truth be told, app compatibility is what's on a lot of people's minds when it comes to the Surface Pro X. Unlike it's AMD and Intel counterparts, you can't exactly run
every single Windows app, so there is a compatibility
mode for 32-bit apps and you can also find ARM compatible apps, but for the latter, those are a little few and far in between. A lot of people might
not even notice though, I mean, running 32-bit Chrome, not exactly that bad. You, I personally didn't really
notice much of a difference. For apps like Photoshop, I've actually had to
go back I think a year in terms of versions to
find one that was compatible with this. And there's just straight
up no optimization. I mean it's kinda obvious it wasn't meant for a device like this, but I think that kinda speaks
to where this is at right now. It's definitely not perfect. Adobe said, at the
Microsoft press conference, that they're fully committed
to supporting Windows on ARM. And we have to kinda
take their word for it. There's no launch dates
or anything like that. They're just working on it. And that's kinda the story
with a lot of apps in general. There's just not a lot
of support out there, but where the potential
lies is in the future. Microsoft of course wants
many people to buy the Pro X as much as possible, so that there can be more incentive for app devs to support Windows on ARM. So as an early adopter, you have to be willing
to accept the compromises that Windows on the Pro X has today, in hopes that it will
get better at some point in the future. Which is also understandably a tough sell, even considering that there are more Snapdragon ARM-based laptops
coming in the next few months. It's not to say that Windows on ARM and the Surface Pro X are unusable. In fact I think if you can, you know, live inside of a web browser, you know say you use
Google Docs, Google Sheets, if you're just web browsing, if you're doing pretty
much all that I was doing sans Photoshop. You know for lightweight tasks, this thing is really usable, and the benefits again of
ARM are there to help that. Take away the romantic
aspects of the Pro X's future and what you get is a really
nice and well-designed product. It feels really nice in hand, the fit and finish is great. I love the fact that
Microsoft embraced the future, and finally put two USB-C ports on it. I don't love how it doesn't
have a headphone jack on it, but the engineers did
say, to shrink the bezels, they needed to give that up, which I'll take their word for it because I am definitely
100% not an engineer. And on top of all of that, they've thought this through and through. You can actually swap out the
SSD through a door on the back that's really easy to access. As well as put in a little
SIM card over there. Again, this design is
really well thought out, but if you start looking
at the price of it, it's not really that appealing. So as configured with 16 gigs of RAM, and 256 gigs of storage, this unit costs $1,500. And that does not include
this signature keyboard cover, and the pen as well. Add on these two things, you're looking at a package
that costs little less than $1,800. Which I guess on paper
is kinda similar to a... Comparably spec-ed and packaged iPad Pro, but you're getting way
more with the iPad Pro than you're getting with this, at least in my opinion. - [Austin] Ooh hot take! - But it's kinda true. Now that might seem a little harsh but I think the better value of the Pro X comes with the base model, which comes with 8 gigs of
RAM and 128 gigs of storage for $1,000. Now all of the models of
the Pro X come with LTE, so on paper at least, this spec
for spec is priced up better than the 12.9 inch iPad Pro. As I said earlier, I really
want to love the Surface Pro X, but the reality of it is that I don't. I'm gonna be sticking
with the Surface Pro 7 because it has the app compatibility and the performance that I need right now. And maybe for some people, the Pro X will be good. If you do lightweight tasks, if you're willing to buy into
this future and take a gamble, maybe it could pay off. But for me personally, at least for right now, I
don't think it's worth it.