- Hey guys, this is Austin, and the iPad is better
than a console at gaming. Let me explain. This is the iPad Pro, and
there are a few reasons why it's become much
better for gaming recently. One of the big ones is
a very fundamental issue from previously, controller support. Now, with iPadOS you have native support for not only the Xbox One gamepad, but also the DualShock 4 from the PS4. The real key advantage here is what Apple calls
their ProMotion display. Now, this is essentially a
120 frame per second display, which ships on all iPad Pros. Now, the idea here is
very straightforward, at 120 frames per second, you're getting twice the amount of frames, and therefore you're
going to get gameplay, and well, pretty much everything else, running twice as smoothly as pretty much any kind of standard panel. This is important because it's a feature that you really can't
get on other consoles, such as the PS4 or the Switch. Now, because it runs at
such a high refresh rate, previously, the only
other way to really get that kind of performance was with a fairly high end gaming PC, as well as an expensive gaming monitor. Sure, that's definitely going to be the ultimate way to
play, but it's not cheap, and it's not anywhere near as portable as something like the iPad Pro. Now, this is changing soon. The next generation PlayStation 5, as well as the Xbox Series X, both will support higher
frame rates, such as 120 FPS, but the downside there is that while the hardware might be capable, you still need some kind of
display or TV that can give you that full 120 frames
per second experience. That's actually one of the main advantages of something like a Nintendo Switch, or in this case, an iPad. Because Apple controls
the entire ecosystem, they can just say, "Oh, you know what, "we're going to put everything
we need to make this work." The screen, the software, the spec, everything can be in one single package, whereas with consoles and everything, it's a little bit more, it's possible, but it's obviously taking a lot longer to get to that very, very
smooth gaming experience that obviously everyone wants. Now, when you look at this side-by-side with something like the Switch, it's a very interesting comparison. Now, Nintendo, in a lot of
ways, has the same advantages. This is a portable console,
so the screen's built in, they could easily ship it
with high frame rate options. The difference though, is
that the Switch, by itself, is not powerful enough to really
take advantage of 120 FPS, I mean, most Switch games run at like 30, and that's where Apple does have a big advantage here, right? They are building that chip inside, which is incredibly well optimized and very, very powerful
for a mobile device. Pair that with the advantage that the iPad is very
frequently getting updates with better hardware and more performance, whereas a console, such
as the Switch or the PS4, might go three, four, or even five years without any kind of
meaningful performance update, and you've got yourself a recipe for what actually could be
a real gaming powerhouse. I almost called it a
console, but it's not quite, but they're making, actually,
some serious progress. - Wow, pwogwess.
- Progress Hey, be nice, Ken, be nice. The idea for this video
actually came about because Epic recently added full 120 frame per second
support inside Fortnite. Now yes, you're probably
over listening to Fortnite, and well, I actually think it is a good example for this video. So, not only did this
completely blow up my Twitter, but almost more importantly, this is one of those very
few games that will run, not only as a AAA game across a wide variety of
platforms like the PS4, the Switch, and the iPad, but importantly, it is
one of the very few games that actually does support
that full 120 frames per second running on the latest generation iPad pro. To illustrate my point, I have three different systems to try. So, first of all, we
have the Nintendo Switch, which operates with a 30 FPS cap. We also have the PS4 Pro, which can go up to 60 frames per second, and then we'll have
the iPad Pro running at that full 120 frames per second. Now, because this is a YouTube video and you can't really see the
difference between 60 and 120, we are taking advantage of our Red camera running in slow motion. So, right now it's set to 5K resolution at a full 120 frames per second, so once we slow that down, you actually should be able to see a pretty significant difference between all three of these setups. Because really, when
it comes to frame rate, when it comes to this stuff, you really do need the absolute
maximum in responsiveness, and I think that this is sort
of really where the iPad, theoretically, should be way, way better, although graphics-wise
maybe not, we'll see. Yeah, you can see that
gets really stuttery. I mean, we're going well below
30 frames per second here. Now, what I like about looking
at the slow motion feed is that because this is a
60 frame per second display which is running at 30, you should see a brand new
frame every 33.3 milliseconds, however, what you're actually seeing is that a lot of frames
are being duplicated, which means that there's sort
of that jutter, that stutter. It doesn't look as smooth as it should be, even though, theoretically, this is a full 30 frame per second game. But yeah, I mean, that's
not a great experience. I mean, it's kinda playable, it's okay, but it is nowhere near as
smooth as something like a PS4, and especially not as good
as I hope the iPad will be. So, this is actually fairly comparable to what you would get on your phone, although I know Fortnite, on the most recent generation of iPhone, actually does run at 60 frames per second. And in fact, on iOS, actually, Fortnite's pretty well optimized because you actually can
get into the settings and tweak it if you want. Better graphics or higher frame rates, you can kinda tweak things like on the PC, whereas on the Switch, on the PS4, it's kind of like, you get what you get. So, I think, actually, Fortnite is probably better on
a phone than on your Switch, but let's try the PS4 now. Yeah, I mean, we can immediately see the PS4 runs a lot smoother
than the Switch did. Not only is it not really dropping frames, it's staying pretty consistent at 60, but we also have twice as
many frames to look at. Now, there's a lot of sort of talk about why frame rate matters, and I could go a lot more in depth on it, but essentially, the idea is that when you get more frames per second, there's less latency between
when you press a button, or click something, or do anything and when you actually see
it reflected in the game. So, for example, if we're
playing on the Switch, you should get a new frame
every 33.3 milliseconds, and that's still pretty quick. However, if say, I'm
playing on PS4 against you, and I get a new frame
every 16 milliseconds, or basically twice as fast, it means that I have a
real competitive advantage. There's less time between
when I press that button, and when I get the headshot, or miss my shot, which is more realistic. The way to think about
frame rate is twofold. You can see the smoothness, right? I mean, if you're playing a
30, versus 60, versus 120, obviously it looks better, but it also will make you better at games, because if you're playing on the Switch and you have 30 frames per second and I'm playing on the iPad at 120, you have to wait four times
as long to get a new frame, if I step to the left or
step to the right, as I do. Now obviously, none of this is ideal because there are obviously
variables all across, but generally speaking, a higher frame rate not
only looks smoother, but also will give you a much
more substantial advantage when it comes to I see what you're doing, or you see what I'm doing
20 milliseconds later or whatever the case is. Does that makes sense?
- It's one more thing to make you better. So, after all of this
talk about frame rate and why it matters, it's
time to actually try the iPad Pro version of Fortnite. So, if we hop into the settings, we actually have a couple
of different options. So, you can actually cap the frame rate at 20, 30, 60, or 120. And then, if we go into
the quality presets, we can go low, medium, high, or epic. So, if we do epic, it's 30 FPS, high, I think is maximum of 60. Yeah, if we go to 120 it sort
of defaults us to medium. So, with our PS4 controller paired, let's see exactly how smooth 120 frames per second is on the iPad, and whether I should throw the
PlayStation in the garbage. No more gaming PCs, iPad
gamers only, rise up. Dude, that latency is crazy. I mean, literally, it feels like as soon as I tap that stick,
I'm immediately jumping in. And that frame rate's actually
staying pretty stable. Now mind you, it is definitely running at a fairly low resolution, and to give sort of some of
other these other consoles, specifically the PS4, some credit, you are making some cutbacks. For example, draw distance is not as far. So, while you might have a better response time against someone, you might not be able to see
them as far into the distance. But the smoothness of this experience is really hard to get away from. I mean, that is, and that's
a really solid 120 FPS. We can definitely pull
it up on the slow motion, but generally, just sort of to my eye, this is incredibly smooth. I can immediately say while yeah, the settings are a little bit distracting, you can see, it's literally
drawing in the light in front, but yeah, there's no doubt that
this is a better experience. If you're gonna ask me whether I wanna play
on the PS4 or the iPad, I'm gonna say iPad here. You just can't get away from the fact that this is such a smooth experience. Now, mind you, if I want better quality, I can just hop into the settings and switch it over to say, epic. Oh, okay, I can't change
it while I'm in a match, but theoretically, if I do
want higher quality graphics, I can just turn that setting down and I'll just lose some frame rate. But if you want sort of the
maximum smooth experience, it's crazy to me that an
iPad will give you that and it's gonna look better than literally console
you can buy right now. That's pretty cool. - [Ken] Also, you can
take this one somewhere, and that one you kind of can,
but that's a little harder. - That, essentially looks
like we are getting, I mean, you can see, we're
running at 120 frames per second and it looks dead smooth. I'm actually surprised it's not even really dipping too much. I feel like if I get into some action I might drop a little bit,
but that's impressive, especially if you put the
side by side with the Switch, while yes, with these graphic settings, it looks a little blurrier, but the difference is night and day between the responsiveness of 30 versus 120 frames per second. And again, these are two mobile devices. This is really impressive. When I heard 120 frames per second, I figured they had just
uncapped the frame rate and it would kinda be bouncing around, but at least for a
fairly standard gameplay, you are getting that full
experience on an iPad. Now, is that iPad more
expensive than a Switch? Absolutely, but I mean, we've come a long way for mobile devices, and I love the fact that you can get such a smooth frame rate,
such a real gaming experience, especially with a controller, on something which no one
would ever look twice at. You can pull out your iPad in
every coffee shop in the world and they think you're gonna
be writing your thesis or you're watching YouTube, but instead, what you're doing is you're beating people at Fortnite
at 120 frames per second. It's okay, I won't tell. It is a brave new world, my
friends, but if you enjoy, definitely be sure to
subscribe to the channel. And if you wanna know more
about this kinda stuff, we did a video at CES with a ridiculous 360 frame
per second monitor from Asus, so you guys can go check
that out over here. And until next time, I'm
now an iPad Fortnite gamer, so there's that, I guess.