- This is the new PS5 Slim. Not only am I unboxing it, but I'm also taking it through an X-ray, as well as full teardown
to see what's inside. And honestly, it is not what I expected. This, my friends, is
the brand new PS5 Slim. I say Slim, but it's like,
you know, lowercase S Slim, because it's still a little bit chunky. But it's really nice of them to include the latest Xbox exclusive with our PS5. (blade rings) What the hell is...? - [Ken] That's your plastic stand. - I bet a lot of people
are gonna accidentally throw these things away
'cause they're so small. This would be a great time
to remind you to subscribe and ring-a-ling the ding-a-ling button, so you never miss when
I give you a free code to Modern Warfare. All right, let's take a
look at the PS5 itself. This is definitely a lot lighter weight. In fact, (cardboard thumps) I like how the cardboard
weighs almost as much as PS5. So, I've been very
curious because I've seen, like, the photos and stuff
of what this looks like and they have a couple
of like side-by-sides, but actually seeing it in person, well it's smaller and it's glossier so... - [Ken] Oh, it's half glossy, half matte? - It is half glossy and half matte. - [Matt] Hi.
- I will say though, that disc drive is quite bulbous. I mean, not to say that you
should get the digital version just so you have a slimmer
profile, but that's chungus-y. We also do have a neat little PlayStation Easter egg on the bottom here. So you can see here that it is smaller, I would say, in every dimension. It's a sort of similar shape, although it loses this
kinda like these wings, which I'll admit when I first saw the PS5, I thought it was really ugly,
but it's kind of grown on me. This looks a lot more slim line. Something else you can tell here is that with the original PS5, they have these like little grills over like the fans and stuff. Here I can literally just stick my finger all the way inside, which shouldn't make really a difference, but it does look maybe a little cheaper. I mean it's not that
much, sort of, shorter, but it is like significantly less thick. One of the main advantages of the PS5 Slim is that this disc drive is optional. So this obviously has it
already pre-installed. Theoretically you can
buy a digital version and add it later. A couple other things I'm noticing here. So we do have slightly
different USB ports. So on the original we have
one USB-C and one USB-A. That has been replaced with two USB-Cs, one of which shows that
it is a 10 gigabit port. I assume that's probably more
so for like PlayStation VR. If you watched our previous video, last year when we took
a look at the PS5 1200, which you'll probably know is that that was actually
a significant upgrade. So this PS5 1200, even though it looks the
same as every other PS5, has a way smaller motherboard,
a six nanometer processor. And I said it in the video, in fact we can cut to the tape right now. You're trying to tell me that they couldn't make PS5 Slim today by just dropping it in there? Which makes me curious as far as, is this just the same on the inside? Did they literally take
the exact same motherboard and just shrink the chassis down to what they could have already done? I don't know, but there's
only one way to find out. So for context, this is a
launch PS5 disc version, which comes in at a hefty 4.4 kilos. Now we contrast that with
the 2022 version of the PS5, aka the 1200 disc, we're gonna see is that comes in at a significantly lighter 3.8 kilos. Now, theoretically the PS5
Slim should be pretty similar  if it's got the same motherboard and similar cooling inside. So we've got with this
one, it is 3.1 kilos. This is actually a pretty
substantial difference in weight, which really leaves you with a question of where did all that weight go? Lemme actually take a
look at the disc drive because the disc drive with this PS5 is definitely something unique. (PS5 clicks) Ah, okay, it's on these little tabs. - [Matt] That's straight up
sounds like it's breaking. - It actually, I think it's fine. I think that's actually the
way you're supposed to do it. So it pops off. As you can see here, we
have access to the fan, as well as a large empty... Wait, what? It's hollow. You see this? Why is it...? - [Ken] Stop fingering the PS5. - Okay.
(electronic beep) There's a little arrow. What's the arrow? How do you...? Oh my God. What? Is that really that easy to
just take off the disc drive? Hold on a second. Wait,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. You know what? Sony, I
gotta give you guys props. That is legitimately cool. It's a weird sort of hybrid connector. It looks a little bit like SATA. Certainly this is proprietary so you're not gonna be able to
use this with anything else. But that is really, really simple. We can see now a little bit more of the actual size of the PS5 if you've got the digital version. (PS5 clicks) I usually, oh god, that
does not feel good. Usually you just pull 'em. Yikes. I understand why they did glossy. 'cause everyone's gonna wanna
buy the third party plates or really the Sony first
party plates to replace this with like Matte Black and everything. That's why they did the glossy, so they want to sell you more shells. - [Matt] On the good side of that, we can get some really cool combinations of like four color bespoke. - True, well, I'll tell you, I don't think there's a lot in here. This feels... (plastic taps) I mean, it even sounds hollow. If you wanna put the feet
on it, it looks like that, which, to be fair, they do click in okay. And then you've got your
PS5 which sits like this. So I guess the feet aren't
quite as dumb as I thought. I don't like the fact that
you've got these huge seams and the big holes for
the actual feet though. I mean it's like the build
quality on a Cybertruck. You're definitely not supposed to do any of this while it's on and it's probably a little bit dangerous. But what happens when you
plug in the disc drive when the PS5 is already on? Someone's gonna do it, right? Should go without saying,
don't try this at home. But I am because I
wanna know what happens. Okay, ready and activate. Oh interesting. Your disc drive
wasn't connected properly. When connecting your disc drive, make sure to turn off the
PS5 and unplug the power. So it just tells me to restart. Okay, so actually, that seems fine. So the set up right now is that the PS5 has been powered up as a digital version, but this is the first time it is going to be booting
with a disk drive. Oh hey, your disc drive
is connected to your PS5. To use your disc drive,
register it to your PS5. Should we try to do this
without internet connection to see what happens? Yeah, can't use your disc drive. You need to connect
your PS5 to the network to register your disc drive to your PS5. So if you do upgrade slash
add a disc drive to your PS5, you do need it to at least be connected to the internet the first time. I think that is a one time thing. So one thing I wanna actually check to see is how much capacity
each of these PS5s have. So as a reminder, the original PS5 only shipped with one option
for SSD, which is 825 gigs, whereas the PS5 Slim has
one terabyte out of the box. So with our PS5 Slim we
have 830 gigs of free space and with this one we have 647. Wow, that's actually a
pretty big difference. Now let's put the PS5
head-to-head with the PS5 Slim. So we're gonna do some
very basic power testing. So first we're gonna just start out by just literally sitting on the menu. And you can see there is
actually a small difference but this is kind of margin of error. So we're getting about 49
to 50 watts on the PS5 Slim versus about 53 on our PS5 1200. I will say that that is not
a substantial difference. I've done testing of
several PS5s in the past. They're all a little different. So some require a little bit
more voltage or whatever. A few watts is margin of error stuff. And keep in mind that this PS5 1200 that I'm comparing it
to is the 2022 model. This is the version that
was updated last year. This does have the six nanometer chip. So if I had the original PS5, we would see different results. But I actually wanna give the PS5 Slim the most fair shot going
up against the 2022 model. That sounds cool if I do two at once. (controllers buzz) Now this is certainly a
little bit of a crude test but all we're looking for
is a major difference. If this was a significantly
updated chip or something, we would see 20, 30 watts difference. But what we're actually
seeing is about five. So our PS5 1200 is in
the 217, 218 watt range. Our PS5 Slim is bouncing
between 212 and 214 or so. I will say that's 100%
within margin of error as far as I'm concerned,
which isn't a huge surprise. So we're now here with our
friends at Creative Electron where I will be X-raying the PS5 Slim. So a couple things I wanna
know, but the main thing is, what the actual layout
of the motherboard is and a little bit of an idea
of what's in the inside before we do the full teardown. You can see we've already taken the side panels off of this one and we're gonna do the same with the Slim, mostly because when it comes to putting it in the X-ray machines, the more stuff we can get out of the way, the clearer image we're gonna have. Okay, so we've started out by putting both PS5s in
a larger X-ray machine to get an overall image
of what is on the inside and then we're gonna put
it in these other machines to get a little bit more
of that fine detail. So right here on the right, you'll see that this
is the last year's PS5 and you've got things like the SSD, we've got the heat pipes. But on this model, while the heat pipes are
in basically the same spot, it looks like the motherboard
has actually been, potentially, like, rotated around. The main downside with this PS5 image, is that you can see it's a
little bit darker on the bottom. That's because the disc
drive is not removable on the original PS5,
which means that we've got a little bit more clarity with the Slim. Now one thing I can
say immediately though, is that the PS5s do have
different cooling assemblies. Looking at the outside of these PS5s, I would not have guessed that there was this level of difference. The heat pipes, look at
the difference here, right? So heat pipes are just
vertical, vertical, vertical, vertical, horizontal, simple. On the new one, look at how much more
complex the shapes are. See, it's like sort of weaving
in and out and up and down and it's much more sort
of a complex design, which does make sense if you're basically cooling the same processor, and again we've just
done the power testing, they are basically
pulling the same wattage. If you've got that same 220 ish watts that you need to dissipate, a smaller overall form
factor, you do need, unless you want to, you know,
sacrifice either temperatures or fan, like, sort of noise, you do need a more complicated design to keep everything in check. And it looks like they actually have done the engineering to certainly do something which looks a lot
more complex on the outside. So our friends at Creative Electron have very graciously
let me take the controls with the PS5 Slim in the machine. So what we're looking at
here is the actual SoC, so that's our CPU, GPU, everything. And obviously it's very dense because what we're looking
at is our heat pipes on top. Look at the detail you can see on this. I'm not even zoomed all the
way in, like, that is wild. So I'm curious here, so
you can actually see, so where I am in the image, is this is where the SSD would be mounted and you can see the SSD mounting points are directly behind these heat pipes. Because you've got the heat pipes where pretty much all of the heat is being sort of exhausted out, because you've got
airflow running through, from sort of this direction. I'm curious if the SSD
cooling is gonna be any better or potentially worse on this PS5 Slim, 'cause this is quite a dense area. So I think that's everything
we need with the X-ray. So let's take this back to the studio and teardown the PS5 Slim. It is time for the PS5 Slim to reveal its dark, dirty secrets. So we actually discovered a slight issue. The third time we took
off one of these shells, we bent it back a little bit, but these little plastic little hooks started to bend back
and it wouldn't go in. So we had to actually take some pliers and shove it back together. They're definitely ready to sell you some spare shells when you break yours. (PS5 clicks) Ugh.
(Ken laughs) Boy, I don't like that noise at all. If it's anything like the previous PS5, these four screws will
pull the entire fan out without having to go any farther. Hey look, how many screws
do you really need? The answer, not that many. And so now we should be able
to just pull the fan out and it does come out nice and neat. So for context, the old
PS5 fan is 120 millimeters. The new one is 115 millimeters? That's a really bizarre
change. Interesting. So, you know what, there's
also a difference in thickness. So, the PS5 1200 fan is 50 mils thick, whereas the new 40 millimeter thick. So what we're looking at here is a fan which is smaller than
pretty much every dimension, has the ability for air to
flow all the way through, and has slightly more blades. You know what, we're finding all kinds of neat little things. Like, it's clear that Sony
have not done a lazy job by designing the PS5 Slim. Like, this is a properly unique thing even though it looks quite
similar on the outside. Everything I'm seeing so far on the inside has been, at the very least, tweaked, maybe not in a huge way. They've definitely
learned stuff from the PS5 and decided to put that into the Slim. So yeah, this is definitely the
warranty void sticker. So as I peel it up, it's got the little
PlayStation logos on it. I honestly might be ready to
start pulling the shell apart. I've got 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 screws and oh yeah, look at that. Wow, nine screws and we're just loose. Now, next step is we gotta
remove it from the other side. I don't wanna jinx this right now, but this looks like it
might be the easiest PS5 to open up and work on I have ever seen. - [Ken] What is the Austin Evans repairability score? - So far? Very good. All right, so this
cable should connect to, I believe, our front USB-C ports. Yeah, there we go. - [Ken] Hell yeah,
look at that. Oh wow. - And that, oh. I mean, I guess I'm not
like hugely surprised because I just looked at it on the X-ray, but that looks really nice. Okay. All right. We're gonna put this off
to the side for one second. The only other thing
we have installed here is our power supply,
which is just held in. Man, that is so simple. So for context, this is the power supply on a PS5 1200 compared to the Slim. They are, yes, they're the exact same 12 volt, 31 amp power supply and all that you have on
this are your USB ports, your power button, as well as your LEDs. Other than that, super simple. And of course you've got your
Wi-Fi and Bluetooth antennas, which I assume are just now
run to the front of the chassis instead of on the bottom
with the power supply. So also, theoretically, you may see slightly better Wi-Fi
and Bluetooth performance and so it'll be a little
higher up in the PS5 and not attached to the
bottom of your power supply. So there's a pretty substantial difference between the PS5 Slim
motherboard and the PS5 1200. So not only is this just narrower, but the heat sinks are entirely different. It is a smaller overall heat sink. I think it's part of where
our weight difference is coming from. So as you can see with the
1200, we have a small heat sink, which is directly over our heat pipes, which is sitting on the top of the CPU. So the CPU is right underneath this here. Then we have a medium sized
heat sink and a larger tower. Well, we still have the larger tower here, which actually looks to be
maybe even slightly bigger, but instead of having four
heat pipes inside of it, it only has three, and we're completely losing
this middle heat sink. So instead, they've rotated around. But also, it's a much
more complicated layout. So you can see here that
we have six heat pipes that go straight across and up. So with this we have five heat pipes and you can see they actually start here and they wrap down around and across. So some of them end, so
two of them end here, but a few of them start here and go all the way up to the top. So in the back we have a
somewhat similar layout. So we have a heat pipe which
starts here, wraps up, around, and then through our actual heat sink, which is in a different
orientation compared to this one, but it's broadly the same thing. So it comes across here,
runs up through here, and then the heat can sort
of run out on this side. Even though our SSD is
going to be right behind the actual heat pipe,
there's no heat transfer. So, you might be able to see, I couldn't tell this on the X-ray, but now that I have it out front. So there's literally a little shim to keep them from touching. So basically your SSD is being cooled completely separately to your actual PS5. So all the airflow, all the heat, everything from this
should, theoretically, not really attach over to this side. Although I guess if people
are having SSD problems, that would be the number
one spot that I would expect because it is close to, what I'm assuming, is a very hot heat sink and and heat pipe. Okay, so the Slim motherboard
and heat sink assembly weighs just under one kilos, so it's 0.97. Whereas the older PS5 1.1. So they did remove a couple
hundred grams of mass, from not only this metal shield, the smaller motherboard,
but realistically, the cooler, I think, is
gonna be a lot of that. This is the fourth PS5 in a row that has had a physically
smaller heat sink assembly. Time to start pulling out the very, very, very many tiny screws holding these motherboards together. Ay-oh, there we go. So that is the back. And now look at all the little bits of thermal pads or thermal paste. So we're gonna undo the retention bracket, which I definitely didn't
forget about at all. Ay-oh. What do they say when
they, like, strike oil? Not timber, but like, you know. - [Ken] There she blows. - There she blows. Oh no, that's a-- - [Matt] Thar she
blows, and that's a whale. - [Austin] Inside, we have the PS5. Wow, that is real chunky. So this is the second generation of the chip inside of the PS5. So both the PS5 1000 and 1100, which came out in 2020
and 2021 respectively, had the original seven nanometer chip. In 2022, when the 1200 came out, they shrank it to a six nanometer chip, which is slightly smaller,
slightly more power efficient. And clearly that chip, we'll
open this up to confirm. But that chip should be exactly the same between the two of these. Comparing the motherboard of the PS5 Slim to last year's 1200 model, there are some interesting things to note. So, broadly speaking, they're
actually very similar, but they're totally
different at the same time. So the main thing is, is that the size is almost the exact same. They're a little different if I put them kinda like on top of each other. But the main difference
is that they rearranged literally everything on these boards. The ports are in a different spot, the CMOS battery's in a
different spot, Wi-Fi card. The only thing that's almost the same is going to be where you
connect your power supply. But that just makes sense because that's on the bottom of the PS5. Probably the biggest difference
I see, is with the SSD. So this newer PS5 has a one terabyte SSD, but it actually only has
four total NAND modules, whereas the older model actually had six. Now it's a smaller SSD and, theoretically, that
would hurt performance, although in practical terms,
they probably can have, like, it will probably
have the same throughput. So when it comes to the teardown. What we're getting here
is a more compact design. So, everything is smaller and
that largely seems to be okay. I mean, with previous
models with the PS5 1100, they just took the PS5,
chopped half the heat sink out and called it a day, which
I was not a huge fan of. This time around, while
yes, the fan is smaller, yes, the heat sink is a little bit more of an optimized layout with a little bit less
sort of volume and mass. It does seem like they
compensated for that with a more complex layout
with better airflow. Now, when you consider the fact that this is essentially
a complete replacement, so you will no longer be able
to buy the older fat PS5s. These Slims are gonna
entirely replace them. And that's kind of happened
at a bit of a price increase, is a bit concerning. I mean, I love the fact that
the disc drive is removable, for repairability, for future upgrades, but I don't necessarily know
if that's worth paying more. And honestly, everything I'm seeing here, while they've done a lot
of nice engineering work to make it a little bit smaller, a little bit more
compact, yada, yada, yada, but also it's made it
cheaper across the board. You know, it's got a smaller fan, it's got less of a weighty heat sink. They've trimmed and tweaked. They've removed those little vents that used to be on the top side. So, I don't think, necessarily, that I could say that
the PS5 Slim is better. It feels like it's a side grade. There's nothing really wrong with it, but the fact that it is more expensive definitely makes me a little hesitant to give it, like, a huge thumbs up, especially because
there's almost certainly a PS5 Pro on the horizon next year, which should be a
legitimate actual upgrade over what we're looking at here. But if you wanna know more about that, make sure to subscribe to the channel and ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling button because the PlayStation shenanigans, well, you arm me with a screwdriver
and I can't help myself.