The world is full of radio noise 
- random frequencies and waves. As   more devices go wireless, it only 
adds to the cacophony of noises. So the big challenge for a mobile device 
is how to receive the right signals without   interference. Think about it, just how 
amazing it is that your cellphone can   receive the right signals from 
a far away tower, out of sight. It is amazing! And the Radio Frequency or 
RF filter inside your mobile's radio plays   a critical role in pulling it off without a hitch. Prior to 2007, the RF filter industry was 
sleepy, and did not attract much attention. Then Steve Jobs announced the iPhone. And that 
forever changed the RF filter. In this video,   we talk about a subject - perhaps a bit 
niche, but nevertheless vital - radio filters. ## Beginnings Basically put, the filter does a simple 
job. It is a circuit device that receives   an input signal and creates an output 
based on that input signal's frequency. If the input frequency is within 
a certain desired frequency range,   then that output needs to be very 
similar to its original input. Pass. Ideally it should be identical. But the 
output can't be identical due to a small,   impossible-to-avoid reduction which we 
call "insertion loss". Insertion Loss   cannot be avoided, but we do want it be as low 
as possible, because it means signal degradation. If the output is outside the desired range, 
then the output is zero. Practically,   it can’t be zero but we want to 
get it to be as low as possible. Chart this whole thing out and you get 
something that kind of looks like a   woman's skirt or a mesa. So in the industry, 
what they call a steep "filter skirt" means   that the filter lets through a lot of the 
right bands and rejects the unwanted ones. The industry uses a single dimensionless number 
to measure how good an RF filter is - Bandpass   Quality Factor or "Q". There are other types of Q 
out there, but this is one for bandpass filters. Q is defined as the ratio of the center frequency 
- in other words, the middle of the skirt - To the low to high end of its frequency range. In 
other words, the width of the skirt, or bandwidth. So center frequency divided by 
bandwidth. The higher the Q,   the better. The lower the 
insertion loss, the better. Filters exist for all sorts of waves. When we 
talk about RF filters, we are referring to those   with a frequency band between 100 megahertz 
and 10 gigahertz. Anything higher than that,   we are probably talking about "microwave filters". So that is what the RF filter is supposed to do. 
How does it go about doing that job? There are   many devices but the RF filters inside our 
modern smartphones are SAW and BAW filters. They dominate the market. 
Let me first start with SAW. ## The SAW The concepts behind the SAW radio filter date 
back to the 1880s and Lord Rayleigh himself. In 1885, Rayleigh predicted and then 
created a mathematical formula for   what we now call Rayleigh waves - 
a subtype of what we call "surface   acoustic waves" or SAW. These are waves 
traveling across the surface of a solid. Seismic waves are another form of surface 
acoustic waves. Cool right? And in fact, that   is the line of research the surface acoustic wave 
community took for the next twenty years or so. World War II greatly heightened the 
work done in the SAW field. Radars   work by sending out radio waves and reading 
what comes back. To get the best reading,   we needed good radio filters to 
increase our signal-to-noise ratio. ## IDTs Then in 1965, a UC Berkeley professor 
Richard White and his graduate student   F.W. Voltmer demonstrated an interesting 
effect with these surface waves using   special comb-shaped metallic electrodes 
called interdigitated transducers or IDTs. The phrase “interdigitated” refers 
to the electrodes’ arrangement,   which resembles two interlocked hands. They then put two similar if not 
structurally identical IDTs on top   of a bar of crystalline quartz. The quartz 
bar acts as a piezoelectric substrate. Piezoelectric, referring to the 
conversion of electrical and   mechanical energy. It has a critical 
role to play which will matter later. When the first IDT - an input IDT - receives 
a radio signal that is within the desired   frequency band, it will convert that 
radio signal into mechanical energy. That mechanical energy manifests as a 
unique surface acoustic wave traveling   outwards from the IDT across 
the surface of the quartz bar. The wave then hits another IDT terminal 
- often called the output IDT - and   it turns the wave into an electrical 
signal via the piezoelectric effect. This electrical signal can now 
enter the chipset to be interpreted. Some devices add what are called "reflectors" to 
both sides of the IDT. The waves will reflect back   and forth between those reflectors, 
trapped inside the filter like ... Spoilers for a 20 year old movie ... that 
guy at the end of the first SAW movie.   Game over. Such devices are called 
"Surface Acoustic Wave Resonators". ## MEMS! We should take some time to discuss 
how these systems are fabricated. These are MEMS devices - RF MEMS, to be precise. 
MEMS stands for Micro-Electro-Mechanical devices,   and they are designed as tiny 
electro and mechanical devices   whose production require semiconductor technology. The filter’s effective frequency range is 
dependent on the distance of the gaps between the   IDT electrodes' "teeth" or "comb-fingers". In the 
1980s, that gap was as small as 300 nanometers. So we use deposition to deposit a 
thin film layer of metal - usually   some aluminium alloy - on top of a 
piezoelectric substrate. That substrate   is usually the aforementioned quartz crystal 
or Lithium niobate for higher frequencies. After that, we use lithography to 
pattern the filter's features onto   that metal layer. Usually that includes the 
IDT, resonators, and all that. Then we etch it. Having all the action take place on 
the filter's surface makes the SAW   filter easier to manufacture. With early 
SAW filters, you only needed to deposit,   pattern, and etch one layer. More advanced 
SAW filters might get more complicated,   but on the whole don't add that many more layers. One manufacturing downside though is that it 
does mean we need to be a bit more careful   with regards to packaging. We often seal 
these into vacuums, which was challenging. ## The 1970s
Okay back to the history. After publication, Professor White and Voltmer apparently moved on 
from their work - unaware of its applications. Which were apparently limited 
at the time. But later,   the SAW filter caught the industry's 
interest because it was a good,   small analog filter that worked on frequencies 
from 10 megahertz to 1 gigahertz and beyond. The military were some of the first people 
to research these, trying to improve their   communications systems. In situations where 
interference can be accidentally or not   accidentally be injected into the airwaves, 
good signal to noise ratios are critical. A SAW-based filter was used on 
the Voyager missions in the late   1970s. Tested for extreme environmental 
conditions, the filter has worked for   nearly 50 years - though Voyager seems 
to be going through some recent issues. Then in 1975, TV companies like Philips, 
Plessey, and Siemens found that SAW filters   were good low-cost replacements for the old 
coil-and-capacitor-based filters in their TV sets. Better filters meant being able to 
tune in to more TV channels without   static interference - something that used to be a 
problem back before Netflix and YouTube and all. Quickly after proving the use case, 
these TV companies started making   30-40 million of these units. It was 
one of the first big RF-MEMS products. ## The 1980s Motorola demonstrated the first wireless 
mobile phone in 1973, the DynaTAC. The DynaTAC used ceramic filters 
for their RF filtering needs. And   while those ceramics were smaller than the 
aforementioned coil-and-capacitor filters,   they still took up a large portion of the system. So as standards for 2G cellular communications 
systems developed throughout the 1980s,   they looked for something smaller. Then in 1992, 
Fujitsu fabricated the first SAW-resonator-based   RF filters for mobiles. They were small, cheap, 
and easy to make - as we mentioned above. Even back in 1975, SAW filters were estimated 
to cost like $2 each. Nearly 15 years later,   each filter cost between $1.40 to $1.60 - 
when bought in volumes of 50 million units. You can fill a bucket with these filters 
for more than what the bucket cost. That   is kind of remarkable - though I 
feel empathy for the poor MEMS fab. ## The SAW Falls Short So the SAW dominated the market at the 
start. But as the 2G GSM standard developed,   the SAW's limitations got more clear. It got challenging to produce SAW filters 
for frequencies above 2 gigahertz. That is   because as the filter's center frequency 
gets higher, you must make the distance   between the teeth smaller. Above 2 gigahertz, 
the distances are too small to easily produce. GSM started off with just one RF band. So such 
a GSM handset only needed two RF filters - 1   to send and 1 to receive. But then GSM started 
to add more bands. So now we need more filters,   and then those filters started 
to interfere with one another. So as we got towards 3G at the turn 
of the century, people recognized   the need for something new. In 1998, a 
team at the German semiconductor maker   Infineon began working on an alternative 
- the Bulk Acoustic Wave filter, or BAW. I want to call them BAW like Maw 
and Paw, but I will hold back. ## BAW Filters
The concepts of the BAW filter date back to 1980. BAW filters work very similar to the 
SAW filters. We turn RF energy into   mechanical energy which we 
can then turn into a signal. However, the BAW filter directs the energy 
throughout its entirety - its bulk - rather   than just along the surface. Such 
waves not only travel faster,   but can also travel farther without deterioration. There are two major subtypes of BAW filters. 
The first is the Film Bulk-Acoustic-Resonator,   or FBAR. The other is the Solidly 
Mounted Resonator, or SMR. Fundamentally, they work the same. At their core 
is a capacitor-ish structure consisting of the   top and bottom electrodes sandwiching the layer 
of piezoelectric material, like quartz crystal. When an RF signal hits the electrodes,   they make electric fields which then cause the 
piezoelectric to generate the acoustic waves. The waves travel between those electrodes 
vertically - up and down - through the   piezoelectric material. We can then 
convert those into an electric signal. The center frequency is determined 
by the thickness of the piezoelectric   layer. The layer can often get very 
thin - a crystal for 10 megahertz is   about 170 micrometers thick - with 
tolerances equally as demanding. ## FBARs and SMRs When it comes to FBAR and SMR, 
there are some differences. You   can make SMR using traditional 
VLSI technology for instance. But the key difference between the SMR 
and the FBAR regards how they trap and   contain the acoustic energy within the sandwich. This is a delicate sandwich. Any interference 
will cause energy to leak from the sandwich,   degrading the acoustic waves 
bouncing between the electrodes,   and thus causing serious performance degradation. So we need some way to isolate it. 
Kind of like how a semiconductor fab   suspends its cleanroom to prevent ground 
vibrations from interfering with work. The FBAR does this by suspending 
the sandwich in mid-air. Yes,   the FBAR has a literal air gap inside it. This 
is produced using a MEMS technique, a sacrificial   layer deposited onto the silicon substrate 
that you can later etch away using acid gas. There are several types of FBARs. Some FBARs 
have a thin membrane stretched over the air gap,   kind of like a memory foam pad for your mattress. 
Or they have springs or vias at the edges. On the other hand, the SMR solidly 
grounds the whole structure,   but then adds a set of acoustic reflectors 
- Bragg reflectors like the stuff we have   for EUV lithography machines - to reflect 
the acoustic waves back up to the sandwich. While SMRs are very interesting, they are 
generally not as performant as FBARs at   high frequencies. So our journey 
will continue on with the FBAR. ## Making a FBAR
Beyond their suitability for higher frequencies, FBAR filters hold many intrinsic 
benefits over SAW filters. For instance, the capacitor-like 
structure mean better containment   of the electrical fields - preventing 
electrical crosstalk between filters. And they are less sensitive to contamination from   surface particles landing on the filter. 
That was a real problem for SAW filters. But there was one big downside. They 
are harder to make. We still produce   these FBARs using advanced 
MEMS technology. What do you   expect? Elves? But FBARs have far more 
complicated structures than SAW filters. The piezoelectric layer is often made from either 
aluminium nitride or zinc oxide - and must be very   thin. And depending on the substance, it might 
be difficult to produce a good, even layer. The complexity of the FBAR design manifests itself 
in the increased number of mask layers. You can   make a very simple BAW filter with a single 
mask layer, but it won't work well. A SAW   filter takes one, maybe 2-3 mask layers tops. But 
a good FBAR filter will take 9, 13+ mask layers. HP labs began researching FBARs in 1993. HP 
spun off the labs to create a new company   Agilent. And it was Agilent that first began 
shipping commercial duplexers - a device for   bi-directional radio comms - with FBAR filters 
based on an aluminum nitride sandwich structure. Then in 2006 KKR and Silver Lake bought 
Agilent's semiconductor business in a   deal that I don't think can happen today. 
That business was renamed to be Avago. Avago later went public and then bought Infineon's 
FBAR research group in 2008 for about $20 million. Today, Avago is now Broadcom, which 
they bought in 2015. I covered them   in a prior video, back when 
they tried to buy Qualcomm. ## The iPhone Moment Now we can finally talk iPhone. When 
the iPhone first hit the market,   it was originally just a phone. The original iPhone released in 
2007 had a 2G radio. Its quad-band   GSM/EDGE RF transceiver - produced by, 
I think, Infineon - used SAW filters. Its successor, the iPhone 3G from 2008,   moved up to 3G GSM and it used SAW filters 
as well. iFixit's teardown article back then   mused on whether the filters came 
from the Japanese company Murata. This continued to be the case with 
the iPhones 4 and 4s. The iPhone   4's SAW filters were manufactured by Skyworks. I dug up a Skyworks data sheet 
confirming that its front end   module is a dual-band equipped with SAW filters. As for the iPhone 4s, I think those SAW filters 
came from the American semiconductor company   TriQuint, which is now Qorvo after they did 
a big merger with RF Micro Devices in 2015. I want to note that I am not entirely sure 
about the names. This video is about filters   specifically, not RF modems on the whole. 
Feel free to send me an email to correct. Anyway, my point is that these were phones - and 
they had RF filters befitting a phone. But then   came the App Store and suddenly people realized 
that their iPhone was more than just a phone. But rather, an entire little 
internet-enabled computer right in   their pocket. It set off this monstrous 
explosion of demand for mobile data. ## The iPhone 5 World Phone
Then in 2011, Apple released the iPhone 5, and as Apple likes to say in their marketing 
- everything was different all over again. The iPhone 5 was the first iPhone to use the 
LTE wireless standard. The name stands for   Long Term Evolution - whatever that means 
- but it offers better data bandwidth,   lower latency, and unlike 2G or 3G, is IP-based. LTE covers a staggering 40 frequency 
bands around the world ranging from   600 megahertz to 3,600 megahertz. 
So LTE phones must have filters   for all those bands. That means 
a lot of filters and modules. According to the iFixit iPhone 5 teardown, 
TriQuint/Qorvo duplexers handled stuff for   the UMTS band and an Avago duplexer 
with an FBAR filter handled LTE. Stuffing so many filters into the phone makes it 
more expensive to produce. However, by the time   the iPhone 5 came around, Apple was battling 
for market share. To achieve the most scale,   Apple wanted to produce a single "world 
phone" for every country around the world. There was a customer element as well. 
Jobs wanted the iPhone to have the best   customer experience. Nobody wants to travel to 
Europe or Taiwan or wherever for a vacation,   only to find out that their phone 
won’t work with the local LTE band. The result is a massive explosion in mobile 
radio capability. The original iPhone had   just a quad-band radio. What a 
Loser. Less than a decade later,   the iPhone 7 can access 23 or 24 
GSM, CDMA and LTE bands. The Samsung   Galaxy phones can do 16. And that is not 
including Wi-Fi, GPS, BlueTooth and NFC. ## LTE Data Boom In 2004, the BAW RF filter business was 
worth less than a $100 million dollars. But the iPhone 5 release and the LTE rollout 
supercharged the industry's fortunes. By 2016,   the high-band RF filter industry was 
estimated to be worth over $1.6 billion. New market pressures emerged. People want 
their mobile devices to not only be thinner   and lighter but also more performant, 
pressuring RF front end suppliers to   integrate separate filters, switches, and 
power amplifiers into single RF units. And I should note that these BAW filters 
now look like mineral formations. They do   not look like what you imagine a 
normal silicon chip would - which   testifies to the diversity of 
the semiconductor ecosystem. The BAW RF filter industry itself has largely 
consolidated into two major providers - Qorvo   and Avago/Broadcom. Together they 
control about 95% of the market. And interestingly enough, Broadcom fabs their RF 
filters in the United States. I believe, it is   Fort Collins, Colorado. The Denver Post says that 
there are about 1,100 Americans working there. The SAW devices market still has a number of   different players with some of the larger 
ones including Murata, Skyworks, Qorvo,   and the Japanese company Taiyo Yuden. Not to 
mention all the many dozens of small vendors. ## Future LTE was a 4G technology, and drove a huge 
boom. And now we are going into a 5G world. 5G can deliver significantly faster data rates 
than 4G devices, which in turn demands not only   higher frequencies, but also larger 
slices of those higher frequencies. So BAW filters need to adapt once again. An RF 
filter for a higher frequency needs to make the   electrode-piezoelectric sandwich even thinner. 
And the materials might even have to change. One major concern has been the piezoelectric 
material used in the sandwich. For a long time,   that standard has been aluminium nitride. 
But the demand for bigger bandwidths has   led companies to start doping scandium into 
the mix - which improves the RF performance. The catch though is that doping in 
scandium has manufacturing issues,   leaving the guys at Qorvo and Broadcom 
to play a fun game of trying to figure   out how much scandium they 
can add in and get away with. ## Conclusion I want to thank viewer and friend of 
the channel Josh for suggesting this   topic. And also for patiently 
walking me through the details. The iPhone 5 and the LTE boom drove a massive 
investment in RF filters, creating a multi-billion   dollar industry almost overnight. The big 
question is whether that boom will continue. In 2019, the WSJ reported that Broadcom 
- the OG RF filter company - put their   RF business unit up for sale for $10 billion. They ended up not selling, but friend 
of the Show Jay Goldberg wrote at his   blog Digits to Dollars that it was a 
sign. A sign that they believe that   5G is not going to be the same 
bonanza that 4G and LTE was. There will always be demands for new frequencies, 
more integration, smaller sizes, better heat,   and less power. But the iPhone 15 Pro now supports 
something like 40 bands today in LTE and 5G. So for issues of sheer manufacturability and 
declining returns, I do find the argument   compelling that the insane growth days 
of the early 2010s are pretty much over.