- This is the brand new Steam Deck OLED. Now, I have a few questions. First and foremost, what exactly is new? Because it looks pretty
similar on the outside. Does this have the performance to keep up in 2024 and beyond? And ultimately, is it worth the upgrade over
the original Steam Deck? At first glance, the Steam Deck OLED looks
almost the exact same as the original Steam Deck, but the differences go far
deeper than just skin deep. That's pretty deep if you're
deeper than skin deep, some might say that's real deep. - No, God, please, no! - Immediately you'll notice
the difference in the displays. So both of them are 1280 by 800. However, the OLED, as the name implies, is a far nicer OLED panel. Not only does it get way brighter, 600 nits in standard definition and a 1000 nits for
games that support HDR, but on top of that, the color and especially the
contrast and viewing angles, I mean it is a night and day difference. On top of that, the Steam Deck OLED does support a 90 hertz refresh rate, which I didn't think was
gonna be a huge deal, but I'm surprised at how many games I've actually been able
to push above 60 FPS, unlike the original Steam Deck where I kind of left
things sort of at 30 or 60 most of the time. These days the Steam Deck is terrific, but this screen always has felt like a real cost cutting move to get this thing out the door. And I'm glad that Valve
spent the time and the money to have a custom display made specifically for the Steam Deck OLED. It makes a huge difference. Now, beyond just the screen, pretty much every other
element of the Steam Deck has been updated, especially when you look at the actual internals
of these Steam Decks. What we've got here is a substantially
different internal layout. So on top we have the original Steam Deck, which was a very competent device, but the OLED is improved
in pretty much every way. So starting out with from the screen, because it's not only that
higher quality display, but because it's an OLED, it
actually means it's thinner, which means that while the
actual physical dimensions of these two Steam Decks are very similar, they were able to pack
a lot more in the OLED. Starting out with actually
we've got the battery. So they went from a 40 watt
hour to a 50 watt hour battery. So right from the jump we
have 20% larger capacity. They've also shrunk the chip. So the original steam deck had
a seven nanometer processor where this has a six nanometer chip. It's not a huge difference, but it means it's a little bit smaller and importantly a little
bit more efficient. Between that and the new display, you should expect it to
pull a couple fewer watts while you're gaming, and that combined with the larger battery, according to Valve, will give you between 30
to 50% more battery life. It's an interesting choice
because when you compare this to like some of the Windows handhelds that have the much more
powerful Ryzen Z1 Extreme. Those have a lot more sort
of theoretical performance and far worse battery life because they're much
more power hungry chips. It feels like Valve were
very much conservative with the Steam Deck OLED
because it is a difference. It's certainly going to
give you more battery life and I've noticed that as well, but you guys seeing a
lot more performance. I actually personally think
that's a pretty reasonable trade because they've also paired
that with a lot of other things to make this a more refined experience. The Steam Deck OLED feels
like the last couple of years they've pretty much entirely been focused on making a fully upgrade Steam Deck and the amount of little
tweaks and tuned things, and like the stuff that
they've done here to improve it is truly impressive. I mean, no, does it make the
LCD completely irrelevant? Absolutely not. But there is not a single thing I can say looking at this Steam Deck
OLED compared to the original, which is not an improvement, look, literally, everything is different, everything has been tweaked and tuned in, even if it's a tiny little
difference of like, dumb, but look, they like color
matched the ribbon cables. It went from white and blue to black. Does that matter at all? No. Does it show that someone a Valve really cared about every
little element of this thing? Yes, it does. And when you compare that with what Sony did with the PS5 Slim, which if you haven't caught that video, would highly recommend it because essentially the PS5 Slim has also done a sort of
similar transformation going from a seven to a
six nanometer processor and they've kinda shrink things down, but every element of that PS5 Slim is cheaper, cheaper, cheaper,
cheaper, cheaper, cheaper. This is technically more
expensive but only by a few bucks. We'll get into the pricing a little bit, but it's clear that like there was some real love and attention that went into this that certain other console makers could probably take some notes on. Valve is not claiming any performance uplifts going from the Steam Deck
to the Steam Deck OLED. However, the OLED does
have faster memory. So going from 55 to 6,400
mega transfers a second, and with these AMD APU, which
are incredibly memory hungry, that actually should make
a noticeable difference. I mean nothing crazy, but maybe a couple extra frames per second going to this new OLED, which when you combine that
with the cooler quieter fan, the better battery life,
et cetera, et cetera. I mean, it just does
make it a slightly faster and better overall refinement experience. Better overall refinement
experience, that's the quote. You can put my name on it. Now when it comes to actually
buying a Steam Deck OLED, a question I think a lot
of people are gonna have is that if you already have a Steam Deck, is it worth the upgrade? Now this is by all accounts a classic mid-cycle, slim style refresh and I think for most people your existing Steam Deck is great, but if you've got the disposable capital, it actually is a pretty solid update even over the original Steam Deck. Yes, of course, it is not gonna be a significantly
more powerful console, but that screen, and even like little details like I'm sitting here just like scrolling around on a webpage, and the preciseness I can get with the touch pads and whatnot, like there are so many little
updates across the board, not only, of course,
counting the better Wi-Fi, and the better battery life,
and the screen and whatnot. It's actually not a completely crazy thing to trade your old Steam
Deck in and buy an OLED, but I wanna be clear, no one has to do that
or really should do it, but it's a lot better than going from like a PS5 to PS5 Slim, which makes sense for literally no one. Where things get a little
bit more complicated is if you don't already have a Steam Deck and are looking to buy one because there are actually now five Steam Decks to choose from. So going on the Valve site here, first of all you'll see the three options. So the LCD, which comes in
at 399 with a 256 gig SSD, but keep in mind that this
is completely unchanged, this is the original steam that
they're continuing to sell. On top of that, you've got
the 512 gig OLED model, which is 549. And you can go up to the
one terabyte OLED for 649, and that also, which is
the model I have here, has the anti-glare display. Now between the three of these, I would actually lean a little bit more toward the 512 gig OLED. It's nice, of course, to have
the one terabyte of capacity, but I'm not a huge fan of
the anti-glare coating. That anti-glare coating to me makes the screen a little bit less sharp, and also kind of mutes some of the colors. I think this looks phenomenal as is, but I guarantee you that if I had the OLED with the glossy panel in front of me, I would think it would look even better. A matter of personal taste, but to me the 549 model is where it's at. Or if you want the more
budget alternative, getting a 64 gig steam deck,
either new or used refurbished, and putting a little bit
of money into the upgrades gives you almost the same experience, you know, it's not quite as nice, but a very similar experience
for less than 350 bucks, look that is crazy to me. My number one question
about the Steam Deck OLED is performance related. When the Steam Deck first came
out, it was quite powerful, but that was a couple of years ago and the goalposts have certainly moved. And I'll say in my own personal experience with the Steam Deck, there's certainly some AAA titles that are starting to push the envelope on what the Steam Deck can
really run comfortably. There's a lot of settings that you have to turn
down farther and farther, so does the Steam Deck OLED fix this? Well, in short answer, no. While that memory is slightly faster, if a game ran poorly on the Steam Deck is gonna run poorly on
the Steam Deck OLED. Now that's not always true. So take Baldur's Gate for example, not only has the game
seen a number of patches as well as Steam OS, but also the performance
is just so much better. Like originally, I was
struggling to hit 30 FPS. Now on this Steam Deck, I've been operating it with a 45 FPS cap and it holds fairly well. You can see in these outdoor areas we are dipping into the 30s, but for most of the game, I can't actually lock it at 45 FPS. 45 Hertz works well for a lot of games that are a little bit more demanding because it is half of 90 hertz. So you get very nice, smooth frame pacing, so you can actually can hit 45 FPS, but for some games, like
I'll show you in a minute, you actually can hit 90 FPS
or at least well above 60, which does show off that fluidity. Something else I wanna
show is the HDR brightness. So you can see there's a little
tab here for Baldur's Gate, which shows HDR. If I turn this brightness up, it hits a ridiculous 1000 nits. It is so bright, like honestly,
I mean, it looks terrific, but it is brighter than
I would want to play with any kind of regularity, it is just, oh, I'm on fire now, this is just so, so bright. This just goes to show
that Valve made a good call in getting a fully custom OLED
display for the Steam Deck 'cause it looks terrific. Like I would say that
this is more impactful than having a more powerful processor, and especially if we switch over to a game that can take advantage
of the full 90 hertz, as I get stuck, you'll really
see what this thing can do. I'll be honest, running
Forza Horizon 5 on this is kind of impressive. So here I'm running with
a mix of medium settings and FSR turned on, and I am seeing 70 to 80 FPS, which really flexes the
capability of this display. Now, sure, it's not going
to be the HDR showcase that Baldur's Gate is. The HDR does not work in
Forza Horizon 5 at the moment, but even running an SDR at
the lower peak brightness, I'm legitimately impressed,
like it looks terrific. While these examples are, I would say generally pretty impressive. I can't deny that there are other titles that are still going to struggle
to run on the Steam Deck. And when you look at the
other competition out there, the ROG Ally, you've got the Legion Go, none of do they have roughly
double the performance just raw power with the Z1 Extreme chips. But on top of that, they don't have the added
overhead of Steam OS. Look, I love Steam OS, there's
a ton of advantages there, but it's pretty much always running games through a compatibility layer with Proton. It's a damn miracle that
Proton works at all, I'll give you that, but there's
a little bit of an overhead, you lose a little bit
of your peak performance because you are doing that translation and when you have half the performance of those Windows handhelds, you're inevitably going to
have to make some compromises, which really got me thinking what happens if you install
Windows on a Steam Deck? Does that magically give
you a performance benefit, and is it remotely worth it? Here's the thing, I actually started working
on this video a few weeks ago before the Steam Deck OLED
had even been announced, so I've got some thoughts. (upbeat music) The first thing to know is that if you install
Windows on your Steam Deck, it requires you to reformat the drive and completely get rid of Steam OS. And same thing if you want
to switch back to Steam OS, you gotta reformat and get rid of Windows. So, as of right now, we've
recording this video, there's no dual boot support
for Steam OS and Windows. Valves say they're working on it, but they've been, to be fair, working on it for quite some time. So first impressions with the
Steam Deck running Windows have been very mixed. The Windows-y bits are annoying. Now, this is not really a
Steam Deck specific thing, but dealing with the onscreen
keyboard is not good. And I've had multiple
issues with the Steam Deck where it didn't want to pop up. I had to, at one point I couldn't log in, I couldn't get past the lock screen because the keyboard would not
pop up, so I had to restart. It's really, really finicky. I'll say that I have these problems with most Windows handhelds, but it does seem like it's a little bit
worse on the Steam Deck. That being said, there
are, of course, advantages. One of which is the compatibility. So, you're no longer bound to
generally just Steam games. Actually, one of the big things for me is taking advantage of Game Pass games. So because I already pay
for Game Pass Ultimate, I can't install those
natively on Steam OS, but I can install those
natively on a Windows device. The problem though, coming
back to our janky discussion is that for some reason out of the box Windows thinks that the
Steam Deck controllers is a mouse and keyboard, and so in something like
Forza, it doesn't work. What I will say has been
actually really impressive is playing Baldur's Gate 3. Now this is a game that I've
played fairly extensively on the Steam Deck running Steam OS, and I know that while it doesn't run well, it is playable there, but this is kind of what I was hoping for. Even though there are certainly
a lot of disadvantages to running Windows on your Steam Deck, the advantage is, well theoretically, in games
that aren't Steam working, which I haven't got that
fully up and running yet, but on top of that games that are not really
optimized for Steam OS that are optimized for Windows should deliver far better performance. So it's still very much early days, there's a lot more tweaking
and tuning I want to do, but the gist of it is this, Windows does work on the Steam
Deck, but it's kind of janky, and there's going to be a
lot more tweaking and tuning I'm gonna have to do to get
this to be a playable state. Whereas, of course, if I
was running on Steam OS, everything would just kind of work. Look, if Valve turns on the
ability to dual boot tomorrow, I would strongly consider
it on my Steam Deck, but as of right now it is
too drastic of a change. It is just not worth it. When you compare the Steam Deck OLED with the other handheld PCs out there, price is a major factor. So on the lower end, the Steam Deck LCD, I
think, is a terrific deal. Again, when you're talking
about this thing at $350 to last with a little bit
of upgrading terrific value. Now at $550, the Steam
Deck OLED is fairly priced, I will say. It is certainly a little
bit harder to justify than, you know, maybe the older 400 model where you could just throw an SSD in, but 550, I think, is very
fair for the 512 gig version when you consider that it's
competition is about $700, technically you could
actually get the Ally for slightly less, but generally speaking, we're
talking about $700 over here versus 550 for the Steam Deck. And I will say that I will
take the Steam Deck OLED over either of these. It's not too much of a competition. Yes, there's more performance here, but Windows is janky, right? It's just not as seamless
of an experience. Now, if I had the ability to load up Steam OS on these devices, I think it's a much more compelling setup or assuming that Windows ever
gets their (beep) together and actually designs an OS that feels good on a small touchscreen, that's a different story, but I can only evaluate what I have today and the Steam Deck OLED
is done terrifically well. So ultimately, is the
Steam Deck OLED worth it? In a word, yes. Is it perfect? No, of
course not, no product is. And the performance does
give me a slight bit of pause on a full, full glowing recommendation because it is very usable
today, don't get me wrong. Like I have found that, especially with the 90 hertz and the ability to adjust
your frame rate targets, it is still very competent. But as time goes on and as more games demand
more and more power, it is going to start falling behind. That's fine and I think that's a reasonable trade-off considering that this has
far better battery life than the other options out there. It is cheaper, it has, even though it's not
quite as high resolution and high frame rate of a display, ultimately the OLED absolutely
carries this display to being the best on any handheld console. Like it is rare to see a
device get so much better in so many ways from one
generation like it just, Valve have done something
special with the Steam Deck OLED. I'm sure you've seen other videos talking about why it's great, I tried to go into it being
a little bit more skeptical, but I'm completely sold. Like it is the move if you were looking for a handheld PC. Thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe to the channel and ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling button. If you'll excuse me, I'm gonna go grab my deck
and have a great time. (team laughing) - [Alex] We're gonna get demonetized.