- Steam Deck's been delayed. Now what am I gonna do
to play games on the go? Gamepad Digital's got
the answer, the GPD XP. It's an Android device that promises to be everything
modern gaming phones can be at a significantly lower price of entry. But it's not phone, and
it's got a parlor trick that Valve never thought to pull. Ha ha, it's got swappable controls. But unlike the Steam
Deck, it's not a mini PC. So what can you do with it? And does it deserve a
spot on your wishlist? - The ends NZXT for
sponsoring today's video. NZXT wants to make building
a custom PC easier. With NZXT Build, just set a budget, see how the computer performs
with your favorite games, and Build takes care of the rest. Use the link down below to
get your own custom PC today. (electronic music) - This thing is basically
half Switch, half phone, with swappable controls and, bizarrely, dual 4G SIM card slots. At first glance, you'd
be forgiven for thinking it's like the ROG phone, but no. Only the right section comes off, the left section is part of the chassis so thankfully it doesn't do voice calls or we'd be one step away from a Nokia N-Gage taco phone situation. Data access does make sense, since GPD is marketing this
as a way to play mobile games, including first person shooters. To achieve that, the removable controls
aren't just for show. The right side can either
be blanked off to become a, great Asser to lead your team
to victory in MOBA games. Fitted with the traditional
thumb stick and button controls for emulators and streamed console games, or replaced with a five
button hot key cluster that GPD says is ideal
for first person shooters. That might not look too intuitive, but the idea is that you can aim with your thumb on the touch screen and use these buttons
for utility features. The buttons feel characteristically
good for a GPD product, and compared to smaller handhelds like the Retroid Pocket
2 and Anbernic RG351 M, the sticks are much nicer feeling. They're the same as the GPD Win 3. True to GPD's roots,
all controller modules can switch between Xbox
mode or touch simulator mode via a dedicated button
next to the thumb stick. (electronic music) But enough about controls. The device itself is running Android 11 with GPD's very not inspired
by Microsoft, Metro UI. And yes, they actually call it Metro. That's a lot newer than the Android 6 you'll find on the Retroid Pocket 2 or Android 7 on the
previous gen GPD XD Plus. And helps to make it relevant for more than just retro gamers. That's why it's so strange that GPD chose a MediaTek Helio G95 SOC, which is well below upcoming
competitors like the AYN Odin and KT R1, which both sport the far more capable Snapdragon 845. It's going to have to drive a 60 Hertz 1080p tall IPS display, which
they call sunshine screen. It's not super premium and
it has a lot of IPS glow, but it's reasonably bright and wouldn't be out of place
on a mid range smartphone. Unlike one of those, it's got an integrated active cooling fan that should hopefully prevent throttling over longer sessions. And what that very mid-range SOC, the chonky 7,000 milliamp hour battery, just might give it some serious endurance. The biggest flagship smartphones typically ship with 5,000
milliamp hours or less with brighter screens and
much more power hungry SOCs. In fact, it drops less than 20% from full over an hour of gameplay
in "Super Mario Sunshine." (bright music) There's 128 gigs of UFS storage on board with the ability to swap
one of the nano sims for a micro SD card. You could theoretically
expand it even further with the USB type C port, if it could be relied
upon to grip the cable. Look, it falls right out. Thankfully you definitely won't
be filling up your storage using the whole punch camera. At five megapixels, it's primarily
marketed for video calls, which is better than nothing for, I guess. You'd probably prefer to use
a real smartphone for that, but I'm not your mom. If I was, I'd tell you to buy a water bottle from LTTstore.com and stay hydrated more
easily with the new caps. I won't be around to
take care of you forever. The speakers would
normally be unremarkable on a handheld like this, but these are supplied
by AAC technologies. A Chinese company who
happens to be the supplier that Apple uses and these are
in fact double coil speakers. And well, they're remarkably clear, but an iPhone this is not. (upbeat music) There's no bass, just mids and treble. Great for phone calls, but none of the included arcade titles are being done justice here. You'd think there'd be more space for resonant chambers in here. Let's take it apart and see for ourselves. The screws are all Phillips
and all the same size. That is to say, quite tiny. There's a few clips
too, but once it's off, oh, check out the size of that battery. There's the active cooler and hey, the sticks on a separate PCB,
just like the Steam Deck. Get subscribed by the way,
because if it's not clear by now, we're definitely doing more
content on the Steam Deck and you won't want to miss it. Down here are the speakers, they're not tiny, but
they're not huge either. There's definitely enough room in here for larger resonance chambers
if they tried, oh well. Let's button it back
up and play some games. The built-in Neo Geo games
seemed to work pretty well, although that's to be expected. Input lag seems pretty low as well and the controls feel responsive as we come to expect from GPD devices. Even in the games that
don't ship with the console. While the Dolphin GameCube emulator is one of the pre-installed apps, it's not quite running at full speed. You will get the full
30 FPS most of the time in Super Mario Sunshine, for example, but shader compilation
and some special effects will bring the games FPS down
to the high single digits to say nothing of more complex titles. What's worse, the version of Dolphin
included with the device doesn't make use of the controllers so you need to map the
touch inputs manually. The PSP emulator on the other hand does work with controller natively and runs reliably at 2x upscale often, even at the native tentative
resolution of the handheld. Although it does drop frames
here and there if you do that. But this isn't primarily
marketed for emulation. The Anbernics and Retroids of the world are much cheaper and already
do a good job of that. GPD spins this as a console
for modern mobile games and PUBG Mobile and Minecraft are good candidates for
the additional controllers. But while setting up the
touch control simulator isn't difficult for these, and there's very little, if any delay, frame rates aren't great. We're getting 30 or 40 FPS in PUBG at best and in Minecraft's default settings frame rate fluctuates between 60 and what looks like somewhere in the 30s depending on what you're looking at, regardless of the graphic settings. If you're willing to
reduce the draw distance below the default of 20, you might actually be able
to get a solid 60 FPS. Speaking of FPS woes, the FPS module bizarrely places the trigger
lower down on the grip than a standard controller, which will take some getting used to. It's kind of like if
a Dreamcast controller also had shoulder buttons
but there's less to grip. - [Andy] Nobody knows what that is. - But I do. The traditional controller
grip, while comfortable, is already a little
bit on the smaller side so the FPS module ends up
being painful for me to use for any length of time. And that's not the only
issue here, the flat cap, let me grab this real quick to kind of show you what's going on here. Normally these controls, what they do is slide directly on and
off of this rail here. It takes a fair bit of force
to get that off, by the way. This flat cap is exactly
what it sounds like, it is flat and it just
flops on there like that with the magnets. There's nothing here. Normally there's like something like, this here covers this,
but there's nothing there. And so visually, and
like in terms of feel, this is really distracting to me. Not only that, but these
grips are not easy to align. Normally what I want to do when I'm putting this together is like kind of get it in like that to kind of get it into the hole properly, then slide it into place,
but if you do that, what's gonna happen is
you're going to have a little bit of a lip
on the console itself between the controller and the console. And that actually makes it more
difficult to take this off. What you're supposed to do
is line it up very carefully so that the tabs get into those rails and then push it together. And even then sometimes
you'll get mixed results. This time I got it 100%, but your mileage may vary
very dramatically here. Oh, and while we're talking
about weird control issues, the hardware Android buttons are in fact a little backwards, oops. Which encapsulates the overall
experience pretty well. You're losing a more powerful
SOC for a big battery. You're losing a cohesive experience like you'd get with an Anbernic for a more versatile Android UI. You're gaining bulk
for swappable controls. And while the build quality is solid, you're going to pay a premium for it over those other devices. Is it worth it to be
able to play mobile games on a secondary device? As someone who doesn't play
competitive mobile games, I can't say. But as someone who daily drove
a PSP for years and years, I can say that the emulation
capabilities are promising. But at around $350, it's
not a big leap to 399 for an entry-level Steam Deck. A handheld that can do
all this and run PC games, albeit with lower battery life. When that console finally launches these premium Android handhelds
may not be able to compete unless pwning players with
smartphones is your jam. Our sponsors always compete
for these segways though. - Micro Center is one of the best places to shop for all your technology needs. You get the best prices and
selection on computer hardware and everything else tech
at any of Micro Center's 25 locations across the US. Their new Supermicro PC builder
makes it easier than ever to spec up the server or
workstation of your dreams. Just choose your base system, add in upgrades to fit your needs, like storage, memory,
networking, or graphics, and you can even arrange
same day in store pickup to get your perfect PC
as soon as possible. Go check out Micro Center's
Supermicro PC builder at the link down below,
and also linked below is an offer to receive a free 240 gig SSD if you're a new customer. Valid in store only,
no purchase necessary. - Thanks for watching guys. You're probably hoping for
more Steam Deck content and this wasn't it. So go check out our reaction
to the Steam Deck tear down to see just what this
boy's got to contend with going forward.