- This is a $4,000 gaming laptop. And my number one question is why. So Lenovo Legion reached
out to sponsor this video. They came to me with a
very unique proposition. I can do and say whatever I want, which I guess thank you to the
Legion team for trusting me with your shiny prototype laptop. But it really got me thinking. A $4,000 laptop is an
outrageous sum of money but clearly they're
making this for a reason. People are buying these laptops, obviously not a ton of people, but this is a real market that's out there and it really gets me thinking like, surely no one's spending $4,000
on a gaming laptop, right? Are you using this for video
editing or rendering or... I'm super curious, but
I will say one thing. This thing for $4,000 as it
should be, is loaded with tech. I mean, you name a spec and
this thing pretty much has it. Core i9, 64 gigs of RAM, RTX 4090, 165 Hertz, 3.2K mini LED display that gets eye searingly bright. Watch yourself I'm gonna go crank to full brightness. Eyes!
(manic laughter) Now this particular
version of the Legion 9i that I have here, actually costs $4,400. One of the most striking parts of this is certainly the forged carbon fiber. So this is real carbon. Now what they've done is actually something kind of interesting. I was able to speak with the
Lenovo engineers about it and they actually had to develop an entirely new manufacturing
process to make this happen. So if you look at it, every single one of these
chassis are completely unique. These little carbon chips
are hand-laid by someone and it's a multiple step process where it has to go through
like different factories. Like there's a lot involved in actually making this the way it is. And on top of that, the material of the laptop is also unique. The choice of forged carbon
is really interesting. So unlike aluminum, which is on pretty much all gaming laptops from the last decade, forged carbon not only
is stronger and lighter but importantly it also has
some environmental impacts. So it is a lot of work to do the R&D to make forged carbon really a thing. But theoretically, carbon
is incredibly common. You could capture this from the emissions of a
smokestack or something, turn it into these pellets, and then create yourself a
super badass laptop out of it. Now, right now they're using
it only on this halo product and it's on the deck lid. But you can imagine that while they're using this halo product to sort of fund all the R&D and build the manufacturing
lines and everything to work with this material, in the future maybe it trickles down to
more of the other laptops in their line and maybe
you're able to use it for the actual structure
of the device or whatever. Like this is the kind of stuff where I think a halo
product makes a lot of sense to sort of trial out a new
product, a new feature. It's something that's not
quite ready for the prime time but for those of you who have $4,000 burning a hole in your pocket, you can kind of have a
glimpse at the cutting edge, the next generation of not only materials but also performance. If you are a big fan of
customization, boy oh boy have the Legion team loaded you up with, I would say, an overkill amount of RGB. All right, let's count it together. So we've got ourselves
a full RGB keyboard, of course we do. And it also does come
with additional key caps if you wanna swap them out. There's also an RGB strip around the front and the sides of the device. Come around back, there
is another RGB strip and there's RGB on the Legion logo. Now mind you, if you want a little bit
more of a low key look, you can set these to white
or turn them off or whatever, but I find it to be almost
excessive levels of RGB. But then again, if
you're the kind of person who's spending $4,000 on a laptop, a little flashy is
probably not a bad idea. Port wise, we've got USB A,
headphone jack, ethernet, HDMI, Thunderbolt, I mean you name it, it's pretty much got it. But one of the coolest
things about this laptop is actually what's on the inside. Liquid cooling to be specific. This is a prototype
laptop, so the software and certainly the
hardware's not quite final but I like the fact that
you've got so much cooling. So you see that the top is
pretty much all this grate, so you actually can see
all the way through. So the top is meant to intake air and run it through these
fans and exhaust it out. The bottom is specifically out the back which I think is a neat way of sort of taking advantage of this because when you're stuffing
this level of components in a laptop, which is
relatively thin and light, honestly keeping it cool is
absolutely the name of the game. And if you don't want to
make it chungus-y thick, which is probably not a term
that the Lenovo engineers use but I use, then you can
get a little bit creative. There's actually two power
adapters that come in the box. So there's your big 330 watt adapter which is what you're going
to want to use for gaming but it also comes with
140 watt USB-C charger, and that would still keep this
laptop up and running for, you know, Google Docs or watching YouTube. It's slightly more like basic tasks when you're not really
having to push it to the max. There we go. All right. Woo, that's magnesium. Or I assume it's magnesium. Wow, dude, that is absurdly light. So this is the thing. When you've got a laptop like this that is loaded up with
this level of specs, they do a lot of work to actually make it as
lightweight as possible because there's certain places where you just can't save the weight. So take the battery for example. This is a 99.99 watt-hour battery, aka, the largest legal battery you
could take on an airplane. Gaming laptops just generally don't have any larger batteries. Now behind that, you'll
see a whole lot of cooling, as in three fans, which
is also quite impressive. Oh man, you know what? I mean they did say I
could do whatever I want so I'm just gonna...
(alarm blaring) There we go. I dunno what this is for.
Probably not important. All right, I want to see the water cooling and how easy it is to
actually upgrade the RAM. I didn't wanna do this, but I'm doing it for your viewing pleasure and potentially an opportunity
for you to laugh at me when I break a $4,000 laptop. So here's the thing. This doesn't look super complicated. Like, I'm pretty sure I can do this. I think if I take the battery out, I'm actually gonna have a
lot easier access to things. There we go. Look at that. 99.99 watt-hours. Oh my, look, how much more is behind there Dude, look at the little CMOS batteries underneath the SSD, that's
actually kind of cool. Boy, this is the most
advanced laptop disassembly I've ever done. What I might do now is I might unscrew the obvious screws for the motherboard, probably get it a little loose and then see where things are being held. Oh no, no, no, no, no, no. That one I just took out of this one. This makes me nervous. Look how many screws I've got out and I'm definitely not
remotely close to this thing. So what I'm assuming is I need to lift this part of the board up and then pull it toward me. Yeah, it actually, it's
coming. It's coming. It actually is free I think. Okay, now with any luck, oh, look at that. Instantly successful, my friends. We're free now, I just need to unhook
anything that's on the bottom. Okay, so I'm gonna gently
remove this little dude. Behold my friends, the inside of a $4,400 gaming laptop, and oh my goodness, there's a lot here. I'm gonna gently set this down. Woohoohoohoohoohoohoo. All right, so first things first. You should not do what I just did. Technically it is possible and if you feel very confident
and very bold, you can do it. And if you look here, the reward is that you can easily upgrade your RAM, well, "easy" at this point. So we do have our SO-DIMMs, so these are each 32 gig DIMMS of memory. So the RAM is upgradable. Now because this ships with 64 gigs, you're probably not going to wanna do that but I will give Legion props. It is at least replaceable RAM, just maybe not quite as
easy as I would like. Now the other thing that
really stands out is this. So this is the water cooling for the GPU. So the way it works, as far as I can tell, I believe our CPU is going
to be under this side. So you can see how thick that heat pipe is and there's a number of heat pipes that basically go all the
way around top, bottom, for VRM, for GPU, for CPU. Now the way the water
cooling works is interesting. So there's a little pump in here and the liquid cooling actually
doesn't work all the time. So it only kicks on once the
GPU hits 84 degrees Celsius. At that point, you want to make sure that you're hitting the
maximum boost frequencies, yada, yada, yada, so that little
liquid cooler will kick on. So you can see it's very, very small. So it starts it out here, it runs it down, it runs it specifically
across the GPU VRM, right? So the actual power
delivery to your graphics and that gives you about an
additional 10 watts of TDP on that actual GPU. It might not sound like a lot but when it comes to a laptop like this, pushing every 5 and 10 watts can be a very big differentiator between going from a chassis,
which is 19 mils thick to 25 to 30, like, it's a big deal. And this is the first
time that I'm aware of that there's been a fully
contained liquid cooling pump inside of a laptop. Now you'll see if you get low, that the Z height, right? So the actual thickness
of the liquid cooling pump is way above everything else, right? So everything else is quite thin and this absolutely
sticks out a huge amount. And because of that, if you
look on the other side here on the, I guess, this is the deck lid, so we're looking at the
keyboard from the bottom. You see that there's a huge cutout here behind where the actual screen goes. And that is specifically just designed to actually clear that liquid cooling. They've definitely heavily
committed to the idea of fitting the liquid
cooling in this laptop because that is not an
insignificant amount of size and space. Now I do know that the Legion team partnered with Cooler Master
to develop this solution. So I'd be very curious to see if they can continue to develop
it because it's very cool that it runs for your GPU VRM. It's hard to argue that this is not one of
the more advanced laptops that I've ever taken a look at. Certainly one of the more involved when it comes to disassembly. I wanna emphasize that while
this is sponsored by Legion I have full freedom to say
whatever I want in this video. And what I will say is if you are looking for a gaming laptop, this is probably not your best
price to performance option. You're paying a lot of money for admittedly very good performance, and it is going to be a
little bit better than say, some of the other Legion devices
that do also have a 4090. But what you're looking at here is something which I think is a laptop that is designed for
both gaming and for work. Working with 8K video, doing color which this does have a
relatively color accurate, very bright display. Think about things like game development, maybe 3D rendering, working with AI. The idea that this is a laptop with all the performance you
could ever ask for for gaming, as well as all the
capability to get work done could be really appealing to
someone who has plenty of money and can justify it based on the fact that it can get real work done. Thank you very much to the
Legion team for, of course, sponsoring this video, but
more importantly trusting me to really kind of approach this
Legion 9i however I wanted. It's not a product I normally look at. $4,000 is an incredible
amount of money for a laptop but when you put it in the context of it being a halo product
and you know, made for fun but also for work, it is incredibly cool.