- This is the Azza Cast. And like every other PC, it's been sitting on a shelf for months waiting for a GPU. Thankfully, we finally get to build in it, and I think this one's
gonna be a lot of fun since this case is crazy unconventional. Look at this. (case clunks) There's no thumbscrews back here because there's no side panels to remove. Well, okay, there is one side panel, but you don't remove it. What you do remove is my segue
to our sponsor from my mouth. This video is brought
to you by Build Redux. Build Redux creates PCs
for gamers who want to win and who want high frame rates
without breaking the bank. It's backed by a two-year
parts and labor warranty, so you're covered and
you can click the link in the description to start
creating your PC today. (upbeat music) The most obvious thing about the Cast is the DeLorean-isque hinged lid. And novelty aside, I actually really like how much access you get to
the case with this thing. The only thing that I
think would be better is if they offered a clear
version, so you could have like a little kind of
PC greenhouse in there. In terms of front IO,
we've got USB-C, USB Type A along with audio here in the front, and the top panel isn't the only trick that the Cast brings to the table. The basement actually unfolds as well, but clearly we can't do
that with it standing up. So, we gotta put it down like this. Wow. I mean, you could just do all the things. That is super cool, right? There it goes. That's even better. You have complete 360 degree access to the entire internals of the case and hilariously as I figured, you know what? Not enough access. Watch this. You remove these five screws that are marked with little
gray areas and watch this. That way (chuckles) The whole frame just comes
out of the outer shell, which you can then put away. Oh, thank you for that. And now you can build it completely open. And then the whole thing will
just clip back into place. That way you can put
stuff like a hard drive here on the back of the motherboard tray and do all your cable management. Look at these awesome
cable management loops. I am liking this thing. Can I say Asus? One of those companies
that I just had always been kind of dismissive of because
a lot of their earlier stuff was not very good. Uh-oh, I found a QC error. Jeffrey from QC tried
to fix that up for us. Actually that looks like
it probably happened during the painting or
powder coating process. Now, seeing as we're
working with a white case, we opted for a mostly white
build for that aesthetic, but something that we noticed while we were getting everything ready is that the case isn't really that white. See? If you look at it next to
almost any other white thing, it looks kinda pink. You guys see that? For our motherboard we've
gone with the premium, but not outrageous model from Gigabyte. This is their X570S Aero G and it's a more creator-centric board, which usually just means it looks stylish. But in this case, it actually
has at least one feature that might be more creator-centric. So, I'm not used to seeing
a display port input on the back of a monitor
unless it's got Thunderbolt, because what you would
wanna do is you'd wanna take your powerful, dedicated graphics card, run a little loop back
cable into the motherboard, and then inject that high
performance display port signal into your Thunderbolt port
if you wanted to connect to a dock that was 50 meters
away or something like that. In this case, it appears to be injecting into one of the regular USB 3.2 Type Cs. So in a nutshell, if you had
a supported monitor or dock, it would allow you to have both USB-C and full-fat display port functionality with the performance of your onboard GPU from that single connector. So, it's kind of like
poor man's Thunderbolt. You could think of it that way. It's got two and a half gigabit LAN, as well as four M.2 two slots
and I think that's about it for creator-centric features.
- [Colin] 10 USB ports. - I guess yeah, it's got a lot of USB. For our CPU, we've gone
with the Ryzen 7 5800X. It's got eight cores, 16
threads, nearly the same gaming performance as
its higher-end brethren, but just half as many cores
as the top tier Ryzen 5000. And honestly, it's a great choice if you don't absolutely
need a ton of threads for your particular workload. And we're humming along with this access. 32GB of G-Skill 3600 mega
transfer per second C14 memory. Doesn't quite match the
color scheme of the build, but from a performance standpoint, this is exactly where you
wanna be with Ryzen 5000. For storage, I'm not sure quite
when or how this happened, but M.2 drives have gotten so affordable that you can actually
take a two-tiered approach to your storage setup
with all NVME devices. So, we're gonna be using
a P5 Plus Gen 4 SSD for our boot drive. So, go ahead and throw
that in the top slot, which is using lanes directly
connected to the CPU. Full Gen four speeds. Then, we're gonna throw
a P2 2-terabyte drive in one of our other
three freaking NVME slots on this motherboard. Under this M.2 heat sink,
looks like we're pulling all of them off at this point. Check this out, Brandon. I've just got a socketed wifi slot. So, you actually put
another SSD over top of that if you want and that's
ooh, that's cool too. You can put up to four 110
millimeter SSDs in this board. What's interesting about that
from a creator standpoint, is that the highest capacity and in some cases,
highest performance drives can end up being 110 millimeters long like you saw with Intel's Optane M.2s. For our power supply, we went
with a pretty obvious choice for a white themed build. This is the Prime Snow Silent
Titanium from SeaSonic. Crazy efficient, super quiet and white. (chuckles) You know, what
do you want me to say? 750 watts which should
be enough for our system since we're not gonna be
using a 30 Series GPU. Talk a little bit more about that later. Let's get this installed. Oh, okay, so here's how it goes in. Everything about this case
is super unconventional. I could take this basement shroud off or I could put it in here? Is that? Yup? Can I do that? No, I can't do that. Okay, look like I could do that. Look, I think that can be forgiven for thinking that I could do that. Let's pull this off. Whoa. - [Colin] So make sure you
have the fan pointing up. You have it upside down. - I have to have it pointing up? - [Colin] Yup. - Oh.
- [Colin] That's what the instructions say. - The instructions say fan pointed up. Well, I mean, this is one of
those situations where normally I prefer not to have the
power supply fan pointed up because it means that it's
sucking in hot recirculated air in particular around the GPU. But in this case, I mean, it's so open. I guess it doesn't really matter. (case thunks) Oops. I sincerely regret that this
thing ships with black cables, but that's on SeaSonic, that's not on me. And man, is it ever easy
to cable manage this thing? Got our 24 pin here. Got our pre-run cables for
the graphics card here. Got our eight pin up here. And check this out. They've got these giant
Velcro tie or zip tie loops back here that just make
it super, super easy to get everything
strapped down into place. So, I'm thinking we'll
do it kind of like that. And now it's time to mess
it up with all the RGB crap that's gonna be on our cooler. This is the H150i Elite Capellix. Its got super nice RGB, and
more importantly than that, it uses Corsairs maglev ML Series fans. Triple radiators, so we'll be able to keep
that 5800 X nice and cool. And we're gonna go ahead and
install it in this orientation. This case can accommodate
either a 280 or a 360 mil rad, at least in theory it can. (gasps audibly) Uh-oh. As I might've just committed
a water cooling sin here. There's not enough room for the tank. We can get away with this
if we put the fans here and use them as intakes in
order to improve the clearance. I really don't like doing that because it's worse for maintenance, but for a show build,
I guess we can do that and I would like to see the
revised version of this case with just this much more clearance, especially cause it's the kind of thing that you could probably fix
with a drill on 10 minutes. Also, unfortunately, this appears to be one of
the older style coolers that comes with the clip
style mount for AMD. I mean, they're not terrible, they're just more finicky
than the newer mechanisms. The thing that's kinda baffling to me is the design of this fan. The case is quite open air to the point where it could
easily be sort of, you know, pulling air from even outside
of the case kind of around it. So even though it's open, there are some serious
question marks for me in terms of actual real-world performance. You know what I really would
have liked to do in this case is one of my classic tricks. Okay. So, what I used to do back
when cable management sucked and most cases didn't
have any holes up here or anything like that is
I used to take this fan and I'd run it right
under the motherboard. I just kinda pin it under
the motherboard at the back and then I'd bring it out to the side or the top or the bottom or
wherever it needed to go. And seeing this here. I really, really wish I had done that. Now I know this doesn't look
very nicely cable managed, but this is a bit of a different strategy than I would usually have. What I'm focused on here is hiding everything from this side. So, I'm trying to get
everything wrapped up as tightly as possible (grunts)
so that we don't catch it sort of running across these
open gaps in the chassis. All right. Yeah, we finally got the GPU. I wish I could tell you it's
something cooler than it is. This is actually a 2080Ti. And the reason that we're
using a last gen GPU is because there's even
here at the office, a bit of a shortage of
modern high-end GPUs especially white ones. So, this was it. All of our 30 Series stuff of this class is in our editing stations
or tied up in other projects. So, that's what we're using. - [Colin] Linus, please move
the graphics card in a bit. - No, no, it's fine there. This is safe. All right, now there's a little
support bracket doodad here that I'm kind of trying
to figure out right now. What is this boy doing? Oh, is it a vertical mount? - [Colin] Yes. - Oh, cool. It's a vertical mount. Oh, I like it. Okay. Sold. Let's do a vertical mount. Oh, do we have a PCIe riser? Oh, we'll just go grab one. Oh yeah. That's freaking awesome. Okay, we've got a bit
of an interference issue with our USB Type-C over there. Okay. Yep, this is great. So, here's where it goes in right, oh well, there apparently. Okay, now hold on a second. Wait, how the devil are you
supposed to, oh, interesting. You have to do this. The GPU slides into the case, the sequel. You can't put this in from this way and you can't screw it in
unless the GPU is already on it. So, you have to slide it in from the back. We just did a video called,
"The GPU Slides Into This Case." And so, now we've done it again. This is great. I was worried that we'd be able to see my mess of cables back
here through these gaps, but actually, the GPU's
gonna cover all of it. Oh, and I didn't even put the
power supply shroud on yet. Oh, there's, oh it's, right,
it's a cable cover shroud Okay, all the cable
management concerns I had were totally invalid. 100%. 'Cause there's a freaking basement cover. So clean. Enough to forgive the pink hue. It's really noticeable when
there's shadows cast on it. Can you see that? Like how pink it is? - [Colin] Not quite beanie pink. - (grunts) No, it's not as pink as that. Oh, right. I was about to do an
lttstore.com for the tube but you can't actually buy that. So, you've gotta pick up the gamer hoodie. Available in aqua or gray. Let's just see if my cable
management is gonna survive. I've got a big thing right
where it needs to go. You know what? Maybe I can get it in. (equipment clunks) Oh. Is that it? Oh yeah, I think we got it. One door closed. Two doors closed. That's pretty cool. Or you could go with just like the half kind of cocked open look. This is where a lot of my
cooling questions come in 'cause you got just this
little tiny gap along the side for these 320 millimeter
fans to bring in air. Great mechanism for
attaching to the front, but that is mhm. - [Colin] You can get a mesh front. - There's a mesh front. Okay. Well, that would almost
definitely be an improvement. Still, it might get enough
to deal with just the CPU. And if this GPU is just grabbing fresh air directly from freaking outside,
I mean, it might be okay. Now I know you guys wanna
see the thermal results, but before I do that, I wanna take a moment to appreciate that couple of RGB
configuration issues aside, this thing looks freaking awesome. Like, if you want the
open frame experience, but with the aesthetics of a closed case and the cable management of a closed case? This is basically the
bee's freaking knees, which isn't to say that
it's without problem. First and foremost, I gotta point out that it
is extremely susceptible to the temperature of the
air around the system. Even walking past it can
generate a measurable change in the temperature of your GPU, but that's actually good news because GPU temps were freaking awesome. And our theory, that it
would mostly pull fresh air from this giant gap in the
side of the case did hold up. Obviously, this is going to
have some negative impact on the (clears throat)
dustiness of your machine, but from a performance
standpoint, it's great. Interestingly, one of our
compatriots Gear Seekers, who's on Floatplane by the way, you guys can check them out there, also tested this case with the GPU in its horizontal configuration and they too found a very
small but measurable difference between having it open
versus having it closed. I think this orientation ended
up being a little bit better, but it's also a little bit more work and it's gonna cost you about $75 to $80 for a Gen 4 riser cable. What's not great from a
performance standpoint is the fact that our CPU
was up near 90 degrees with a triple 120 millimeter AIO cooler. I don't know what to say
about that other than you better get yourself
(grunts) a mesh front panel because I'm pretty sure we're gonna see a marked difference
almost immediately here. Check this out, ladies and gentlemen. We're at 90.4 degrees on a 5800 X. Give it a sec. You like to breathe? How you liking breathing? It's not going down. Is that just how hot this
particular chip runs? 90.5. Okay. Well. - [Colin] Well then. - Neat case. Neat sponsor. Thanks Squarespace for
sponsoring this video. Do you think making a website is hard? Well, it doesn't have to be. If you use Squarespace,
you'll have your website up and running in a matter of hours. Maybe even faster than that. They've got award-winning templates that'll help make your website stand out instead of looking like it's from the 90s. And if you're interested in
how your website is doing, they have built-in tools
to help you find out what you're doing right and
what you're doing wrong. Both our Linus Media Group
and LTX Expo websites were built quickly using Squarespace. And if you ever get stuck, they have a 24/7 support team
that is ready to help you out. So, go to squarespace.com/ltt
to get started and you can get 10% off today. If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe check out our weirdest
PC parts we found on AliExpress or maybe the actual pyramid PC we built for an undisclosed client. (mumbles) was D brand. They're awful. Brandon roll the camera again. We dropped .4 degrees. Ow. All right, it's back up .1.