There’s a popular and persistent saying that 
pumps only create flow in a fluid, and resistance   to that flow is what creates the pressure in 
a pipe. That may be helpful in conceptualizing   what’s happening in a pump system, but it’s not 
the whole story. In fact, it’s almost identical   to another popular but misleading belief, this one 
about electrical safety, that says, “It’s not the   voltage that kills you. It’s the current.” 
Well if you know anything about Ohm’s Law,   you know that voltage and current go hand and 
hand, and the same is true about the pressure   and flow rate in pipe systems. This is not rocket 
science, but it’s not common knowledge either,   even though almost everyone has used or 
interacted with a pump before. I’m Grady   and this is practical engineering. In today’s 
episode, we’re talking about how pumps work! This video is sponsored by 
Curiosity Stream and Nebula.   Get 26% off at the link in the 
description. More on that later! Let me just say right at the start that I love 
pumps. They’re one of my favorite topics, so   this is the first of two videos I’m doing about 
them. Let me know if you want to see more because   there are a ton of topics we can cover. Funny 
enough, most engineers working with pumps aren’t   all that concerned with the physics of what’s 
happening inside one. They mostly care about   performance. That’s because the most important 
job of an engineer designing a pump system is   choosing the right one. That might sound silly 
at first. For a small aquarium pump or sump pump,   you usually don’t have to be very thoughtful 
about selection - the difference between them   on such a small scale is not that significant. 
But, like most things in our industry, those small   variances turn into large ones at scale. As pumps 
get bigger, and their roles become more important,   selecting the right one for the job becomes a 
critical task. For example, choosing the wrong   pump to supply a city with fresh water or get 
rid of floodwaters can be life-or-death. Today   we’ll walk through some of the considerations 
engineers use to select the right pump using   demonstrations here in my garage and even give you 
some tips if you ever have to choose one yourself. Most pumps used in civil engineering, and indeed 
most pumps you’ll encounter in your everyday life,   are centrifugal pumps. That means they 
use an impeller connected to a motor   to accelerate the liquid into the discharge 
line. If you go searching for pumps online   for smaller applications, you’ll likely see them 
listed according to flow rate. That makes sense   because it’s usually what you care about. How 
many gallons or liters per minute can I move?   But, for centrifugal pumps, it’s not quite 
that simple. Let me show you what I mean.   I have a small fountain pump here rated for 2 
liters per minute. If I turn it on and pump this   water into a beaker, it does just about that. It 
takes just about 30 seconds to fill one liter.   But watch what happens if I raise or lower the 
vertical distance of the beaker above the pump.   In fact, through the magic of video compositing, 
I can show you all three at the same time. It’s very easy to see the effect that the 
discharge pressure has on the pump’s flow rate.   The higher the beaker, the greater the pressure. 
And the greater the pressure, the lower the flow.   To illustrate this further, here’s a graph of my 
little experiment with flow rate on the x-axis   and pressure on the y-axis. In this case, I’m 
measuring pressure as the height of a fluid   column, also known as head. You can see that 
my experiment created a curve on this graph.   In fact, all centrifugal 
pumps have a curve like this,   called the characteristic curve. And, at the risk 
of this just becoming a video about cool graphs   (even though some might argue that it has inherent 
value on its own just by being a cool graph),   in this case, it’s also a means to an end. 
Let me show you why it’s so important. No matter what you connect a pump to - whether a 
single hose or a complex citywide network of water   mains - it is going to have its own curve 
describing how much flow will occur under   different pressure conditions. You can see when 
I change the supply pressure by adjusting this   valve, the flow rate through the pipe changes 
accordingly. The graph of this relationship is   called the system curve, and it’s different for 
every network of pipes from the simple to the   complex. A system with lots of constriction will 
have a more vertical curve where, no matter what   the pressure is, the flow rate doesn’t change 
much. A system with less constriction will have   a flatter curve where more pressure equals a lot 
more flow. A system at a much higher elevation or   higher pressure will have a curve high up on the 
graph. System curves can even change over time.   A city’s fresh water distribution system will 
have a flatter curve during the day when more   people are using their taps and a steeper curve 
at night when the demand for water is lower. Stay with me, because here’s why this matters: 
If you plot a pump’s characteristic curve   on top of the system curve to which it is 
connected, you can see they intersect. This   point of intersection tells you the pressure 
and flow rate at which the pump will operate.   It’s conceptually both simple and confusing. 
The pump doesn’t decide what pressure and flow   rate it will deliver. What it’s connected 
to does. When I change my system curve by   opening or closing this valve, both the 
pressure and flow rate created by the pump   respond accordingly. So, to select the 
right pump for an application, you have   to know how your system will respond to being 
supplied with a range of different pressures. Flow and pressure are important, but they’re 
not the only considerations that go into pump   selection. A pump curve sometimes also 
shows other important information like   efficiency. Even if a pump can operate in 
the extreme ranges of its performance curve,   it usually can’t do it efficiently. Listen to 
the sound of this pump as I close the valve   and you can tell that it’s not performing 
its best over the full range of flow rates.   That might not matter in some applications, but 
if it’s a big pump that requires a lot of energy   or one that will run 24/7/365, this is 
something to be thoughtful about. Again,   think about scale. On your fish tank pump, 
a little inefficiency is not a huge deal.   If you are delivering water to millions of 
customers 24 hours per day, small inefficiencies   add up quickly. And it’s especially challenging 
if your system curve changes over time. It might seem cheaper to use a single pump 
that can handle a wide range of flow rates,   but it’s often more cost-effective to use multiple 
pumps so that you can always operate in the most   efficient part of each one’s characteristic 
curve. A pump curve also shows you the pressure   at which it can’t create any flow. Watch 
what happens when I raise the tube from my   aquarium pump to above its maximum pressure. 
The liquid reaches the maximum head and stops.   I have to say, despite what you will read 
in nearly every internet forum about pumps,   this one is not creating flow, 
but it is creating pressure. I’m being a little facetious here 
talking only about centrifugal pumps   when there is another major category 
that behaves a little bit differently.   Positive displacement pumps trap a fixed volume 
of fluid and force it into the discharge line.   Unlike centrifugal pumps, where the impeller 
can spin without actually moving any fluid,   positive displacement pumps directly couple 
the motor to a fixed volume no matter what the   pressure is in the discharge line. As long as the 
motor has enough power to force that fluid out,   it will happen at a constant rate. Essentially, 
their characteristic curve is just a flat line.   I think, in most cases, people who say that pumps 
only create flow and not pressure are specifically   referring to positive displacement pumps. But, if 
the pressure wouldn’t be there without the pump,   I have to contend that the pump created it. 
That said, I think I understand the sentiment   of this idea that pumps only create 
flow and why it’s so often repeated. It is a little bit confusing that a pump 
itself is not directly responsible for the   flow rate and pressures under which it operates. 
Those properties depend on the characteristics   of the system to which the pump is connected. 
In the case of a positive displacement pump,   only the pressure is determined by the 
system curve. The flow rate is a fixed value.   Both are still created by the pump, 
but only one is “decided” by it.   For a centrifugal pump, both the flow and 
the pressure depend on the system curve.   Given this discussion, I’d like to propose this 
new mantra for the internet pump enthusiasts   as a more correct answer to the question 
of whether pumps create pressure or flow:   Pumps impart flow and pressure to a fluid in 
accordance with their characteristic curve   and the corresponding system 
curve. Not a great catchphrase,   but it is accurate. Maybe one of you can 
come up with something a bit more catchy. Thanks for sticking to the end of the video. If 
you’re here, I’m guessing that means you prefer   to spend your valuable free time learning new 
things about the world. You probably also don’t   enjoy watching ads like this, which is great, 
because Nebula doesn’t have any. Nebula is a   streaming service built by and for independent 
creators like MinutePhysics, Real Engineering,   Wendover Productions, and a bunch of others 
(including me). It’s a way for us to try new   ideas that might not work on advertiser-supported 
platforms like YouTube. My videos go live there   the day before they publish here, with no ads 
or sponsorships. And, we’re super excited to   be partnered with CuriosityStream, a service with 
thousands of documentaries and non-fiction titles   on pretty much every subject you can imagine. 
CuriosityStream loves independent creators and   wants to help us grow our platform, so they’re 
offering free access to Nebula when you sign up at   CuriosityStream.com/practicalengineering. I know 
there are a lot of streaming services right now,   and it can be tough to add another monthly 
subscription. That’s why this bundle is such   an awesome deal. For a short time, CuriosityStream 
is taking 26% off an annual plan - that makes it   only $15 for a year for access to thousands 
of awesome documentaries on CuriosityStream   AND everything on Nebula as well. You can watch 
awesome long-form content on CuriosityStream.   One of my favorites is The Secret Life of Lakes, 
which covers fascinating details of both humanmade   and and natural lakes across the world. Or, watch 
Tom Scott pit other YouTubers against each other   in his Nebula-exclusive gameshow, Money. It’s 
a great way to support my channel and a whole   host of your other favorite educational creators. 
Plus it’s just a good deal. Do us both a favor and   click that link in the description. Thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think!