- So I believe a item of mysterious technology is about to be thrown on the table. I'm ready to receive. It's a lot of stuff. This is the Kinesis Gaming XL Mouse Pad. We've got a TKO Tournament Keyboard and a Kinesis Freestyle Edge Split Mechanical Gaming Keyboard. I'm gonna start with the regular keyboard, this seems like a
reasonable place to start. And so inside our Tournament
Keyboard is, oh, wow, it's keyboard, never would have guessed. All right. (upbeat electronic music) Why the (beep) are there
three space buttons? So, interestingly on the back, we actually have double sort of feet, so, you actually can lift
the entire keyboard up or you can put some of them down. Oh, you also have multiple
stages on the feet too, so, you can go all the way up. - [Ken] Their specialty's
ergonomics, so I would imagine that they've put enough
R&D into this to make it. - [Austin] Before I get too into this, why don't we take a look at The Freestyle Edge Split
Mechanical Gaming Keyboard. Oh, well that's the whole
presentation, isn't it? Look at that. I mean, it's a big keyboard. It's a big chungus as the kids say. - [Matt] They don't say that anymore. - What do the kids say then? - [Matt] Notch. - Oh, drip. This keyboard's got drip.
- [Matt] What? - This is actually the ultimate
keyboard testing experience. I've got surround sounds. Oh wow, you actually can
take it apart even farther. There's a hidden little
extra loop of the cable underneath this flap, so you could actually
bring it even farther away if you for some reason, want to do that. Takes some little bit of
getting used to, mostly because I feel like my right hand
always takes a few extra keys. Like my right hand covers
like 60% of the keyboard so like, I'm trying to tap T, you just have to get a
little bit used to that, but- Ooh, I gotta look down a lot. That's not good. Yeah, that's-
(Austin groans displeasingly) Okay, well let me just
actually put it together. No, because it's still too far. Oh God. Everywhere, everywhere is wrong. Everywhere is wrong. If you're the kind of person
who deals with like RSI or you really need something
that's very ergonomic, there's certainly other
split keyboards, right? I mean, there are keyboards
that are a single deck, but you know, they have like
the kind of rise in the middle, like the Microsoft one and whatnot where this could make sense. I'll say, certainly not for me. But that being said, I mean
the keys themselves sound good. The spacebar sound good, it's well damped. It doesn't actually feel quite
as nice as the Tournament, which personally, this is a little bit more
of the kind of key switch that I like. Yeah, let's actually give this one a try and see how it actually performs. Oh, I'm all used to
the split keyboard now. Oh God, this is weird. I forgot how to type. All right, you know
what, I love this thing. I would personally prefer to use a model that at least has the arrow keys, but the the key switches on this sound and feel phenomenal, right. I don't know if I'm necessarily a huge fan of the split space bar, but the thing is, it comes with a regular space bar. You can swap that on
yourself, and honestly, if you get used it, you
probably would be just fine, especially if you're
using any of the macros where you're using different
things for the spacebar. This thing is properly cool. (upbeat music) That's a really odd-looking package. Okay. So, oh, it's heavy too. Was it shipped like this? - [Matt] No, we repackaged it. - Oh, you repackaged it like this? - [Ken] No. - Oh, okay. Should be slightly careful with this. - [Ken] Actually be careful with it. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. I feel like there's
something fragile in here 'cause it's packed a little too well. That's rare 'cause usually
I have like a spidey sense of what Mystery Tech's about,
a little tingle in my dingle. (Austin mumbles indistinctly) Is this the deconstructed
smartphone thing? - [Matt] No. - Oh, okay. - [Ken] Definitely not. - It is. I knew it. Let's see what's in the
mysterious box of technology. Oh yeah. So, GRID is the name of the company. Now I know for a fact,
these are not cheap. - [Ken] So this was I believe
slightly north of $150. - One five zero? - [Ken] One five zero. - Really? I thought these things
were like 3 or 400 bucks. - [Ken] 139 actually for that one.
- $139. Okay, this seems more reasonable, especially considering how
well it's packed and everything But the reveal is- (indistinct) You don't get to see it
first, I get to see it first. That's so cool. So it's an actual iPhone 4S
which has been deconstructed so you see all of the
different pieces, right? So everything from the battery
to the vibration motor, the main board, you see the
little Apple A5 processor. To create this, you're literally
buying some old iPhone 4S, which I'm sure when they
bought a pile of these things was worth next to nothing, right? And then from there
you just take it apart, which sure, is not super simple,
but especially with the way they've done this schematic, right, everything that can be taken apart here has been taken apart. This is really well done. Another one? - [Ken] So this one was $170. - Okay, 170 bucks, got it. Why are you looking at me like that, Matt? Is that just your face? - [Matt] Yes.
- Oh, okay, I'm sorry. - [Matt] Thanks, appreciate that. - Okay. The iPhone 6. The inferior iPhone which
was worse in every way, except it had a bigger screen. But with the iPhone 6, you can see it's a much
simpler design, right? If you put them side by side, the iPhone 4S was an older generation where they had so many individual
pieces that were needed. When you look at the
iPhone 6, I mean, look, you had like the back panel,
you had a of couple of things, but generally speaking, it was all integrated into
the actual logic board, and the additional things that you needed to get the iPhone 6 to run
are pretty minimal, right? So you've got the camera. You've got the lightning port, as well as the speaker assembly. You got your charger
and your headphone Jack. I really appreciate the
amount of work that goes into building something like a smartphone, but it's not often that
you actually get to see what that work looks like. I mean, sure, you could
look at a phone, but I mean, from the outside, most phones
look almost exactly the same, but when you look at the components and all of the individual pieces and parts that make up something as
complex as a smartphone, this gives you a much better understanding of just what it takes, even
back almost a decade ago, to build yourself one of the greatest
smartphones of all time. (upbeat music) (Austin groans) Hello, friends. How's this episode of Mystery Tech? Don't hit me again. I got, I got flashbacks again. I got flashbacks. Cool. I've used this before. We've done many, many videos
on the Nintendo Switch. A controller update is available. This is an Xbox controller. That was an Xbox controller. Are you kidding me right now? Do you just have a box of
Xbox controllers there? Okay. So this, my friends, is
the Hori Switch Pad Pro. Full-size controller
experience in handheld mode. Now this is, I believe, yes, it is a Nintendo officially
licensed product. You know when you got that
Nintendo seal of quality, that it means slightly less than nothing, which is always a good sign. I've actually never tried this before. I've seen it videos on it. It seems interesting because I
will say, I am not a huge fan of Joy-Cons in the handheld
configuration, right? I actually do, to be fair. I usually use the Switch Lite but I'm never a huge fan of the
way that any of the Switches feel when you're playing in handheld mode, which for me is all I ever do. It is very rare for me to
play the Switch on a TV, I'm almost always playing it handheld. So a larger Switch that is better suited to my giant meat hooks
is probably a good thing. So a bunch of thoughts
initially, first of all, look at these compares to Joy-cons, right? So I'm just gonna hold
the normal right Joy-con. Do you see how much bigger this is? I mean, if you find the
Joy-cons to be fine, and these are certainly not wireless, so they're not like a full
replacement, sure, great. But I mean, they are much thicker, and honestly immediately
feel a lot better. So the sticks have a
lot more travel to them, and the actual face buttons
are much larger, right? Like something like an Xbox
or a PlayStation controller, what have. (upbeat hip hop music) What is this? Gaming in-ear monitors? But it's actually for the switch, or are they just normal headphones? I guess they're, oh, they
have a detachable boom mic. Yo, I can go yell at all
the 12 year olds of Fortnite that they suck. You guys, I've have never seen an in-ear with a boom mic attached. That seems like it's about
to be really heavy in my ear. You suck. I gotta say, isn't this
kind of a cool look though? Having the boom mic, but
without the actual headset? I feel cool right now. Life is up to you. It's not what it does to
you, it's what you make of it so please subscribe to my
$99.99 course on self-help and how to look incredibly
stylish with this microphone available at AustinEvans.xxx. (upbeat synthwave music) I'll say, the headset sounds okay, a little muddy maybe. Just to make sure that I'm
getting a solid test here, I am gonna plug this into the G14. (upbeat synthwave music) Muddy, definitely muddy. You know, that's just something I noticed. They kind of show they're like EQ, and the entire EQ is just loud. Like, I don't know if
you could see, but like, it's just all really high. They don't sound great. That being said though, I
mean, for $30 headphones, they sound fine. Let's let you try that boom
mic, see how it sounds. This is a test of what
the audio sounds like from this boom. Is it good, is it terrible? I have no idea, but you could
be the judge, fine viewer. Let me know. Does this $30 headset with
the super cool boom mic sound MLG enough for for you? Oh wow. That's a reference. I still say MLG regularly, and yet, that went out of business like 2014. I'm gonna say, this is rare. (Austin mumbles indistinctly) I'm gonna say these are both wins. Hori is definitely up there
for probably the most comfy way to play the Switch in handheld mode, and this little headset,
man, it's not bad. Good job, guys. I'm proud of you. Do you know what today is? - [Matt] What is today? - Today is the greatest day of your life. - [Matt] No, it's the
greatest day of you life. (Austin exclaims excitedly) - Do I get to be Ash again? Or do I just get to
wear a hat and be happy? ♪ I wanna be the very best
like no one ever was ♪ (Austin vocalizes Pokemon theme song) ♪ To catch them is my real test ♪ ♪ I've already (beep) up the song ♪ ♪ Mewtwo ♪ So this is one of the Mega Pops. This is the Mewtwo. So on the back, we have
Mr. Mime, the wrong choice, Pichu, the okay choice, Vulpix, the very questionable choice. - [Ken] Wait, we have to get more. - What do you mean we have to get more? - [Matt] There's a whole
set we haven't got yet. - There's 582 of these. We don't need 582 Pops. I mean. - [Ken] Pikachu is the actual mega. - [Matt] Yeah.
- Yeah. You put them side by side, Mewtwo seems much more reasonable. He actually does kind of
stand on its own a little. - [Matt] That does seem to scale. Fun fact, Pikachu is taller than Mewtwo. - I feel he's just creeping right behind Robo Raptor's butt. I mean, that checks out. That seems like where I would hide too. Hello, welcome to Mystery Tech where today we have coordination and I'm just gonna be over here. So these are headphones. The Sony WF-1000X Mark 4. Now you might ask yourself, Austin, what happened to the desk? I thought we were watching
Mystery Tech, not mystery window, and to answer that question, I just feel like sitting down today. These 1000X Mark 4s are
actually a headphones- A headphone? a pair of headphones that
I'm quite excited for. Oh, this is small. This is small. It's a good start. Everyone likes something
small in their pants. In comparison, I do happen to have it
pair of AirPods Pro on me. And the AirPods case is certainly, I mean, I'd say it's ballpark, it's a little taller and a little thinner, but I mean, if this fits
in my little coin pocket, which I'm very confident it
will, yeah, look at that. No problem. A lot of paperwork. I don't need that. How much are these 1000X Mark 4s? - [Ken] 279 bucks. - Oh, okay. That's a lot of money. - [Ken] Well, okay, that's MSRP though. You'll probably find them
on sale later in the year. - [Austin] So when it comes to like, in-ear Bluetooth headphones,
these are chunky, right? These are definitely big. I will say these do not,
with the medium tips they don't really fit at all. Like it's just, it's really bulbous and
it just doesn't fit. Let me actually try to
go for the smaller tips. I will say though, I've been wearing these for
maybe what, five minutes now? It is starting to be a little
uncomfortable in my ears. And this is something that is typically a problem for me personally
when it comes to foam ear tips, just the pressure kind
of just irritates my ears a little bit, and there's the secondary issue of these are very large headphones and they're actually a little bit heavy, so I typically like lighter ear buds. I actually liked the Beats Studio Buds. I actually like those a lot,
not only because of the sound, but also because of they're lightweight, so they fit in my ears and I can really wear them
for long periods of time. Let's give a little sound check, shall we? - [Ken] Sure. (playful music) - All right, that's a warm, nice sound. That's really nice. You know, it's funny, when
you're listening to music, the noise cancellation
almost isn't even necessary in a room like this. Same thing, turning ambient sound on. Actually that is pretty nice. I have nothing to complain about. There's good sound stage. It's a very pleasant sound. It's got good bass, but you're not getting that
good bass at the sacrifice of anything else, like
they're well-balanced across the board. They just sound great. Gotta get my pre-Mystery Tech stretch in. (Austin makes playful noises) (gentle gospel music) This is beef jerky. I was literally with you. We bought this at Buc-ee's in Dallas. - [Ken] Yeah. But shout out to Dallas and Texas for having the best truck stops ever, that has also the best beef jerky ever. - Is this really Mystery
Tech is Austin eats lunch? - [Ken] Yeah. - So this is either gonna be
the most amazing beef jerky of my life or Ken has run out
of ideas for Mystery Tech. - [Ken] Both. Are you okay? - Okay, that was a big bite. - [Ken] Yeah, no kidding. Yeah, you didn't have to like- - I thought it was soft.
- [Ken] Take all of that. How's it taste? - Spicy. Pretty good. - [Ken] Nice. - Is that actually mystery tech? I can't talk right now. Give me like two minutes. Two minutes before I finish Mystery Tech. - [Ken] No, do it now. - It's a black hat. - [Ken] Uh-huh. - Why is there a USB
cable attached to my hat? And a QR code. Oh, it's an LED hat, isn't it? (Austin coughs) (Ken laughing) I can't (indistinct) I
got a mouthful of meat. I'm getting mild flashbacks to when I did the chicken
wing PC build with Jake, It's not that hot, but
I have literally like nothing in my mouth so I'm
getting a little warm right now. - [Ken] Man, you are a- - It's it's hot and spicy, Ken. It's not hot, it's not
spicy, it's hot and spicy. - [Ken] I don't believe you. - How you coming back there? - [Ken] It was delicious for a second, and now it's just annoying. (Austin and Ken laughing) - You're over here making fun of me. I'm just like sweating a little bit. (Austin laughs sarcastically) No. How about you don't- Oh. If you don't give it
access to your location, it immediately quits. - [Ken] Give it access to your location. - What could go wrong? Only this time. - [Ken] Oh, no, no. It probably needs that. You could probably do some weird like, like visualization effects. Only that time, yeah. - Come on. - [Ken] It'll also notify
you when there's a call. It also wants to relay your photos on the, on the LEDs. That's all it took. - I got big brain. Wait, here you go. Activate. - [Ken] Subscrib. Yeah. E or Ken. Won't a. (Austin laughs) - This is the slowest thing ever. - [Ken] Fford, hi. S Supra. Great, oh yeah, you can draw on it. Oh wow. Hi. - I ran out. - [Ken] What? That's only half the hat. - Huh? That's my full thing. - [Ken] That's only,
that's only half the hat. Oh, this is not good. - This is an auto, I just chose this one, this is just an image. - [Ken] I love you. - Aww, so sweet.
- [Ken] Hearts. - Oh, we can sync it to music. (Austin vocalizing) This hat's kind of cool. How much was this particular hat? - [Ken] I paid 15 bucks for it. - 15 bucks. I mean, what's the price for some- Jordans? It's more than $15. In fact, Jordan's typically, fun fact, costs significantly more than $15. - [Ken] This was sent to us, by the way. I just figured you would add onto the drip
- Did Michael send it? - [Ken] Michael?
- Yo, MJ, thanks man. I appreciate it. I like your shoes.
- [Ken] No, no. We don't know MJ here. We know a certain Jacques Slade. - Oh. Okay. Wait, are these like some
super limited edition custom Jordans? - [Ken] Custom, yes. I'm sure limited too. - [Austin] What do the
sneaker world and Surface have in common? They're both in the cutting
edge of innovation designs. Surface Originals is a two episode series hosted by Jacques Slade. So Jacques has a new series. Well, that is very cool. Jacques has been a good
friend for a long time. I'm really excited to see what a kind gift that he sent across. Oh my g- Oh my God. I love these so much. Ken, you talking about that drip. I got that drip now. Just gonna casually, just- We don't need these anymore. We'll just get rid of those. I'm good. (Ken playfully crying)
I'm careful, I'm careful. Okay, I'll be careful, I'll be careful. Okay. Now you got me all like,
worried about creasing them. I'm just- - [Ken] You should be, they're custom. - [Austin] I'm just trying
to slide on my foot. - [Ken] Should've just asked
Jacques for these myself. (Austin laughs)
I swear to God. - Austin's not worthy. Okay, look, I'm trying my best here, okay? - [Ken] Low key having like
20 to 30 pairs of shoes, actually not totally crazy. - Excuse me, 20 to 30? - [Ken] I have 30
- Hello, my wife. - [Ken] What? - I'm gonna carefully stand
up so I don't crease them. - [Ken] There you go. - Yeah, boy. (Ken exclaims enthusiastically) (Austin exclaims playfully) - [Ken] Those actually look pretty good. - I love, these feel rad.
- [Ken] Look at that. - [Ken] I like them. - [Austin] I feel like I've
just leveled up in coolness. I've got a pair of Jordans. I got a pair of custom Jordans. Thanks, Jacques. Thanks, Surface team.