With one exception, every World 
Chess Champion in the second half   of the 20th century came from the Soviet Union. For decades, the Soviets dominated the 
world of chess. But for many years,   few people knew just how good the 
Soviets actually were at chess. Early on, the Soviets made the game of chess 
into a political tool of the state. First,   a tool to culturally educate the masses ... and 
then a tool to bring prestige to the country. In this video, we are going to look at how 
the Soviet Union built a chess machine. ## Beginnings Russians have been playing chess - and playing 
it well - long before the Soviet Union. In 1616, Augustus the Younger 
published a chess manual called   "Chess or the King's Game". In it, he wrote: > the Russians play chess most ingeniously 
and with great diligence, and their skill   in this game is such that, in my opinion, 
other nations cannot easily equal them. Many years later, Alexander Petrov became 
Russia's first great chess master and theorist. His legacy lives on in Petrov's 
Defense, an opening with attacking   opportunities for both White and Black. In 1914, we saw the establishment of 
the All-Russian Chess Association.   But that association had scarcely begun holding   tournaments when World War I broke 
out. And that was the end of that. ## The Wars World War I devastated the Russian chess schools. And then the Soviets seized power in 1917, 
plunging the country into the Russian Civil War.   The turmoil resulted in the exit of many of the 
country's best chess talents - among others. Many of Russia's strongest players 
fled the country during these wars,   settling in other parts of 
Europe. Of the 18 players who   played in the All-Russia Tournament in 
1913-14, only six remained after 1920. The strongest player of those six by far was 
Alexander Alekhine (Алекса́ндр Але́хин) - and   he was lucky to be alive. In 1919 at 
the age of 26, he was captured and   interrogated by the Soviet secret police 
for passing information to the White army. Alekhine would have faced the firing 
squad as 1,300 such accused traitors   did were it not for a chess enthusiast 
who recognized the man. He made a plea to   the Ukrainian Council of People's Commissars 
and saved the future World Champion's life. Alekhine's story wasn't the only such 
to happen in Odessa. A year earlier,   a wealthy Ukrainian-Jewish chess grandmaster named 
Ossip Bernstein had also been rounded up by the   secret police for being an advisor to the banking 
industry and thus a bourgeoisie capitalist. Such a charge usually gets you shot. With 
Bernstein literally on the firing line,   a commanding officer recognized him as the 
famous chess master and offered a game. If   he won, he lived. If he lost, he would be 
shot. Bernstein of course won and lived. ## Marx and Lenin Marx and Lenin are known to have played chess. Marx is described as an enthusiastic 
albeit not particularly strong player   with an aggressive style. He was cheerful when 
winning, but did not take lightly to losing. There is only 1 recorded game of his, 
and its authenticity is questionable. Like Marx, Lenin was a passionate but 
not particularly strong player - having   played it throughout his early 
life. No scores of his survive. There is a famous photo of Lenin playing 
chess with Alexander Bogdanov in Italy.   Apparently losing, Lenin lost his temper 
and acted petulantly like a child. After that, he had little time to play as he got 
more involved in politics in the 1910s and 1920s.   According to a witness, he really only 
played once more before his death. In August 1920 during a rare vacation, he 
played against his friend and Red Army head   Nikolai Krylenko (Никола́й Крыле́нко), who will 
later have a major role in Soviet chess. Krylenko   at first seemed to be winning but eventually 
lost. And Lenin of course teased him for it. Despite clearly enjoying the game,   Lenin did not see it as a vocation and he did 
not promote it within the state he founded. ## The Soviet Chess Program The actual founder of the Soviet chess program was 
an Old Bolshevik administrator and chess master - Aleksandr Fedorovich Ilyin-Genevsky 
(Александр Ильин-Женевский). Described as being "cheerful" 
and a "great optimist",   Ilyin-Genevsky had a famous brother in 
the Soviet Navy who became a war hero. Thanks to this connection and his own bona fides,   Ilyin-Genevsky was appointed the Chief Commissar 
of the country's compulsory military training   program - the General Reservists' 
Organization or VSEVOBUCH (всевобуч). In addition to the normal physical training, 
Ilyin-Genevsky believed that playing chess   would help trainees exercise "boldness, 
inventiveness, willpower and strategic ability". He proposed that the Soviet government 
sponsor chess literature and games. The   Soviet government agreed and diverted some 
funds for a news column and a tournament. ## A Strange Olympiad Thus, the first All-Russian Chess   Olympiad (Всероссийская шахматная 
олимпиада) in October 1920. It is one of the stranger tournaments in chess 
history. Remarkably, it was held in Moscow with   the Russian Civil War still smoldering at 
the country's outskirts, though on the wane. The chaos of war remained with hunger, poverty, 
and inflation widespread. With Russia's top chess   players moving from place to place and hiding, 
it took effort for Ilyin-Genevsky to find them. VSEVOBUCH sent a telegram to all its regional 
offices, ordering them to publicize the event,   to let them know of noteworthy chess players 
in their area, and that food will be available. Personal invitations went out to 4 of Russia's 
great players at the last big tournament:   Akiba Rubenstein, Ossip Bernstein, 
Yefim Bogolyubov and Alexey Selesniev.   The Soviets weren’t aware that 
these four people could not attend. Akiba Rubenstein along with several other 
top chess players of the former Russian   Empire lived in Poland, which 
was now an independent country. Ossip Bernstein survived the prisons after 
winning his legendary game and took a   British-sponsored boat to Serbia. You might say 
that he lacked interest in returning to Moscow. Yefim Bogolyubov and Alexey Selesniev had 
been in Germany for a chess tournament when   Germany declared war on Russia. So the two were 
imprisoned and stayed there after the war ended. ## Chess Amongst Hunger Eventually the Soviet government 
coaxed 16 players to join,   promising that their jobs would 
still be around upon their return. The field included some very fine 
players including the aforementioned   Alekhine - the best player by 
far and the eventual winner. As well as Grigory Levenfish - his only 
serious rival. The 31 year old Levenfish   had a real job running a chemical lab back in 
Saint Petersburg. He arrived out of practice,   lost his first two games, but 
stormed back to third place. Ilyin-Genevsky himself participated 
too, eventually taking 10th place. The organizers struggled to literally put 
food on the table. The promised food came   out of rations for the Red Army, which 
scarcely could find food for itself. The first course was herring 
head soup. Second course was   herring tails. Levenfish wrote in his memoirs - "where the middle of the herrings went 
we never succeeded in establishing". A large number of players presented a 
signed petition threatening to go home.   Ilyin-Genevsky soothed these concerns with 15,000 
roubles, more bread and cheese, and cigarettes. Alekhine’s victory in the 1920 tournament left a   deep impression. But the next month in 
November 1920, the secret police opened   a second file on him regarding a possible 
bribe, bringing him in for questioning. Through some miracle, he managed to convince them 
that he was innocent. He married a Swiss woman   and then left on a trip to the West with her. 
He never returned and became a French citizen. ## Political Chess Over time, the Soviet government 
began to infiltrate the chess   program and promote it for 
its own political purposes. Russia's schools of chess centered on Russia's 
two largest cities - those in Moscow and   Saint Petersburg. The latter preferred to see 
chess as an art to be enjoyed for art's sake. But the Moscow group saw chess as this tool 
to educate the masses. Ilyin-Genevsky led the   charge at first, but he then lost control of the 
chess program to a bigger fish - Nikolai Krylenko,   Supreme Commander of the Red Army and one 
of the most powerful men in the country. Krylenko seems to have genuinely liked 
chess and wrote a proposal saying,   "We must organize brigades of chess-players   and begin immediately a five year plan of 
chess" - thus creating the Chess Section. The Communist Party was then struggling with 
the challenges of building socialism in a   backwards country like the Soviet 
Union. People lacked the cultural   awareness and values to work together to 
overthrow capitalism and build socialism. Perhaps chess could be the way to build 
that awareness. So the Soviets began the   rapid industrialization of chess much like 
that of steel and other heavy industry. ## Developing Chess Under Krylenko's watch, chess became an officially 
encouraged pastime by the Soviet government. The Chess Section featured slogans like 
"take chess to the workers!" And "Chess   must become a feature of every [workers’] 
club and every peasant reading room!" Krylenko liked flashy events to promote 
chess - big individual tournaments and   50 board team matches. So in 1925, we had 
the Moscow International Chess Tournament. The tournament was attended by World 
Champion Jose Capablanca and former   Champion Emanuel Lasker. However it was 
eventually won by the Soviet master Yefim   Bogolyubov - the guy imprisoned by the 
Germans during the first 1920 tournament. But the event’s obvious political 
bent drove a wedge between Soviet   chess and the international chess organizations. This divide soon grew and by the late 1920s,   the Soviets restricted their masters 
from attending "bourgeois events" abroad. ## World Class During these isolation years, Krylenko and the   Chess Section focused on developing 
chess's popularity with the people. For instance, an April 1929 movement 
recruited workers into factory tournaments   and sought to grow the membership of the 
organized chess clubs to 1.5 million. But when a new crop of star players began 
emerging in the 1930s, focus shifted back   to master-level play and international events. 
The biggest of these stars was Mikhail Botvinnik. Botvinnik first burst onto the scene at 
the age of 14 when he defeated Capablanca   at a simultaneous exhibition during 
a rest day in the 1925 tournament.   Capablanca apparently was so angry at his 
loss that he "threw the pieces off the board". Botvinnik won the Soviet Championship in 1931 at 
the age of 20. When the Chess Section recognized   that they had a legitimate star, they nurtured 
his career and promoted him to the Soviet youth. In 1933, Botvinnik played a highly publicized game   against the Czech star Salo Flohr - a 
World Championship contender. Krylenko   personally approved the match and put 
the two in the best hotel in Moscow. The Soviets positioned the match 
as a chance for the Soviet Union   to catch up and overtake the west. 
Botvinnik dramatically stormed back   to a 6:6 tie after going down by 
two games and the Soviets crowed: > The legend that Soviet masters 
are incapable of catching up with   the art of West European chess 
has been smashed to smithereens ## A Move to Win In 1934, over 500,000 people had been 
registered as serious amateur chess players. This was as much as the rest of 
the world combined. So half of   the world's above average 
chess players were Soviet. Botvinnik's win brought prestige 
to the Soviet Union. So the Chess   Section gradually restructured their 
programs to win more world class matches. Formalized tournaments and training to 
transition rising junior champions into   professional players. More stringent 
ranking systems for the grandmaster   titles - made achievable only by 
winning games at a national level. And then in 1937, the government 
began issuing a small monthly stipend   to the chess masters - an amount about 
roughly equal to that of soccer stars. The hypocrisy of this move was not 
lost on critics. The Chess Section   wants to popularize chess as a casual, 
ideologically safe game for the masses.   Why are we elevating classes of people 
above others using material benefits? ## Terror and War These were tough times in the Soviet Union. The late 1930s had the Great Terror. Several 
sports administrators were purged from their   jobs. A few players were deemed as problematic 
- particularly those with foreign ties. They vanished into the prison camps with their 
fates remaining unknown. Others were shot for   made-up accusations. But the chess stars 
and masters lived, albeit not untouched. The purges eventually felled chess's 
most powerful patron Krylenko. He   was denounced in 1938 for being too 
preoccupied with sports like chess,   received a twenty minute trial and 
was executed immediately thereafter. Yet Krylenko’s death did not diminish 
chess’s reputation within the Soviet   Union. A number of new bureaucrats took over the   Chess Section - albeit never with the 
same authority than as under Krylenko. Then in 1941, Germany invaded the Soviet 
Union, putting all chess activities on a   pause. Several strong players served 
honorably in the fighting. The staff   printers for the chess magazine 64 stopped 
mid-issue and mobilized for the front. Ilyin-Genevsky survived the 
Great Terror but died during   the evacuation of Saint Petersburg after 
his barge was attacked by German planes. In the midst of war, Moscow and Saint 
Petersburg held city championships in an   attempt to prove that life went on. 
Players complained that frequent air   raid warnings allowed their opponents 
extra time for analysis in their heads. The Moscow Chess Club organized clubs 
and games at the hospitals. In part to   propagandize chess to the people and also to 
promote rapid healing. Hundreds of thousands   of injured soldiers participated 
and chess's popularity yet grew. ## Post War Surprise The end of the War saw the emergence of the 
Soviet chess machine on the world stage. Few Soviet masters played internationally, the 
Western press hardly remembered their names,   and very few of their games were 
published. The rest of the world   did not yet know the strength 
of the Soviet chess masters. This soon changed. On Sept 2nd, 1945 
- the official end date of World War   II - ten masters from the United 
States and the Soviet Union played   a competition via radio. Games went 
on for hours due to how slow this was. The Americans had been champs throughout 
the 1930s. So it was a surprise when the   Soviets crushed them 15 1/2 to 4 1/2 - much to 
Stalin's pleasure. Botvinnik and Vasily Smyslov   annihilated their American counterparts 
- Arnold Denker and Samuel Reshevsky. Denker postulated that the Soviet 
players played so well because they   were full-time chess professionals. This 
was not entirely true - Botvinnik for   instance worked as an electrical 
engineer - but the government did   give them ample time off before the 
competition to study and prepare. ## Deciding a World Champion World War II had put a pause 
on deciding the World Champion. Attempts to resume those games got a bit tricky. 
Alexander Alekhine was the reigning champion.   Prior to the war, the Soviets saw him as 
a vile turncoat but still respected him,   so discussions with Botvinnik 
for a match can take place. But after World War II, news came out regarding 
articles he supposedly wrote in occupied France   comparing the chess styles of the races. This 
essentially made him a collaborator and a war   criminal and so the Soviets believed 
a match to be politically impossible. But Botvinnik pushed for negotiations and 
Alekhine apparently was receptive - in   need of the money and the good PR. 
However those plans were dashed when   the Champ unexpectedly died in 1946 under 
mysterious circumstances at the age of 53. ## A Vacancy Traditionally, it had been the 
World Champion's prerogative   to accept and play a challenger for the crown. Alekhine's death presented a new and unfamiliar 
situation. FIDE, the world chess body since 1924,   stepped into the vacuum - prepping a new 
super-tournament to crown a Champion. The negotiations behind such a tournament were 
long and tortuous. Such a tournament needed   Soviet participation to be credible. But first 
the Soviets and its 600,000 registered players   had to join FIDE - an international bourgeois 
organization of the type they long disliked. During the 1946 FIDE Congress, the Soviet 
government at first seemed amenable,   but then pulled out due to criticisms in 
the press that Soviet stars might collude   to win. This infuriated Botvinnik, who 
boycotted the 1947 Soviet championship. FIDE considered just handing the crown back to 
the previous champ - Max Euwe. This prospect   alarmed the Soviets enough to have them 
make a last-second decision to join FIDE. So after 2 years, the Soviets finally allowed 
three of its best players to join a 5-person,   3-nation round robin tournament in the 
Netherlands and Moscow for the Championship. Botvinnik returned to chess, won convincingly, 
and became the Champion. The long journey to the   top was complete. The Soviet Union would hold 
the championship for many more years to come. With of course, a single 
exception that I need not mention. ## Conclusion The Soviet Union's system of central planning   might not have been so great at 
generating economic prosperity. But it did show incredible success in 
certain sports - which includes chess. The government shifted towards 
winning these world class   competitions as it helped demonstrate 
the superiority of their way of life. And the Soviets have always been quite good at 
mobilizing resources for producing singular,   ceiling-raising achievements. It 
was far easier for them to produce   a Mikhail Botvinnik than a commercially 
successful computer for instance. And also perhaps, I should add that success 
in chess is easy to define. You win, lose,   or draw. After all, it is only a game.   The winning conditions of achieving 
socialism, however? Not so easy.