A significant percentage of the world’s 
semiconductors are made exclusively in Taiwan.   It is there that two of the biggest independent 
foundries - TSMC and UMC - are located. Taiwan also happens to have 
a whole lot of earthquakes.   The island is extremely earthquake prone. 
Smaller tremors are more frequent than you think.   I remember being outside one day on a 
crowded street for lunch when one hit. It was like a scene from a movie. What you first 
hear is the early earthquake warning system   triggering. Instantaneously, your phone and that 
of everybody else around you starts screeching.   It is a loud, terrifying, inorganic sound 
that screams danger. Everyone stops in their   tracks. Cars, motorbikes, and pedestrians brace 
themselves. It is a scene right out of a movie. And then the earthquake hits. In the 
movies they give earthquakes a sound. A low   bass-like rumble like as if the Earth's 
stomach is growling. But my earthquake   was quiet. Dead silent except for the rattle 
of the dishes inside the restaurants shaking.   Nobody on the street makes a sound because 
we are all just bracing and holding on,   waiting for it to be over. It 
felt like it would never end. The earthquake threat to TSMC and the rest of 
Taiwan's electronics industry is very real.   In this video we are going to look at 
one of Taiwan's most dangerous threats   as well as what TSMC has 
done about it over the years. Some 9 million years ago, a tectonic 
plate met with another tectonic plate   and sparked love. The Eurasia Plate, 
a tectonic plate that includes most   of the continent of Europe and Asia, 
collided with the Philippine Sea plate. The Eurasia plate pushed the Philippine Sea 
plate downwards into the Earth's mantle,   a process known as subduction. This same action 
pushed a portion of the Eurasian plate upwards,   creating Taiwan's many mountains. The 
tectonic traffic pileup would also   create Taiwan's western plains 
where many of its people live. All this happened rather quickly 
and recently on a geological scale.   In fact it continues right 
now as of this very moment.   Taiwan's geological youth thus makes it very 
seismically active. Taiwan's Central Weather   Bureau Seismic Network records some 18,000 small 
earthquakes a year within the island's vicinity. All of this to say that Taiwan 
is quite earthquake prone.   Okay now what does that mean for the 
rest of the world’s supply chain? Covid and the Chinese American trade war 
have demonstrated the delicacy of our   global supply chains. How did they become 
seemingly so vulnerable to disruption?   To answer that, we can point to 
a number of major ongoing trends. The first is the rise of lean supply chain 
practices. It means that companies do not want   to have large stocks of inventory and raw goods 
just lying around. One of CEO Tim Apple's first   achievements at the electronics giant was to cut 
the amount of inventory at hand to a bare minimum.   This left Apple with more cash at hand and 
less worries about managing piles of raw stuffs   like aluminum. When working, it’s extremely 
profitable. Car companies like Toyota and General   Motors are also fervent practitioners. It is 
basically a tenet of American corporate practice. The second is the outsourcing of "low-value" 
activities to off-shore centers and companies.   Again, everyone skewers Apple for doing this, 
but they are not alone. Foxconn puts together   goods for dozens of companies including Microsoft 
and Amazon. It lets those companies focus on what   they consider to be "high-value", and it puts 
this dirty manufacturing stuff out of their mind. Third has to do with the centralization of supply 
vendors. A certain number of companies - the names   of which most people have never heard of - have 
risen to become the best in the world in what   they do. For example, automotive companies making 
diesel engines need a certain ceramic particulate   filter to finish their engine. Only two companies 
in the world make it, and they are both in Japan. And fourth, technology products have gotten so 
complicated and sophisticated that no one company   makes everything from beginning to end. Your 
average gadget has dozens of components made   over thousands of steps, sourced from all 
over the world. Nobody designs and makes   it all from scratch. Same as nobody plants 
their own beans for their morning coffee. These factors combine to make supply chains 
extremely vulnerable to disruption from incidents   like natural disasters. It has happened time and 
time again. Remember that time when Thailand had   a bunch of floods and then suddenly nobody 
can buy hard drives? That kind of thing. But the TSMC earthquake threat is especially 
concerning because TSMC is no ordinary supplier.   Tier one vendors (meaning those first in line to 
a big company like Dell) themselves have their   own vendors, and TSMC is more often than not the 
vendor to those vendors. So you got management   at a company like Dell thinking that their supply 
chain is a nice conga line of isolated companies,   when the reality is that it is a tangled, 
interconnected web with TSMC a critical node. So what happens when the very ground underneath 
those billion dollar fabs starts to shake? On September 21, 1999, a major earthquake struck 
the small urban town of Chi-chi in Nantou County.   Nantou is located in the middle of Taiwan island 
and is famous for their bamboo and pork dishes. The 921 earthquake as it was called was very 
strong, registering a 7.7 in the Richter scale.   2,415 people died in the earthquake 
and nearly 150,000 were left homeless.   Major bridges were damaged. Buildings 
as far north as Taipei collapsed,   trapping and killing the residents inside. 
Power was cut throughout the entire island. In addition to the incalculable human 
loss was the economic damage done   to the companies within the Hsinchu 
Science Park including TSMC and UMC.   Back then, TSMC had not reached the 
dominant levels it enjoys today.   Even so, it still had an extremely important 
role in the global electronics supply chain. At the time, some 10% of the world's 
memory chips were fabbed in Hsinchu.   Two thirds of the world's motherboards. A 
sizable share of notebook displays and more. Fortunately, the earthquake epicenter 
was 68 miles south of Hsinchu.   Structural damage to the 
buildings themselves was minimal,   with just one fab seriously damaged. Better yet, 
no hazardous gases or chemicals had been released.   However, TSMC lost between 20-28,000 wafers to the 
shaking. UMC lost 10% of their entire production.   Together, the two companies took 
over $100 million of damage. With great effort and strong government backing, 
TSMC and UMC returned to partial operations.   Lithography steppers had to be recalibrated. 
Broken tubes and other equipment had to be   replaced. But TSMC was back to 85% production 
capacity just 7 days after the quake hit. Nevertheless there were global consequences. 
Spot pricing on memory chips went up 50% year   over year, up 25% in October 1999 alone. PC 
component prices rose in similar fashion.   Dell Computers and PC sellers missed 
on Q3 earnings and their stocks fell. TSMC of course recognizes the potential 
risk that large earthquakes might have   for its business and the global electronics 
supply chain at large. And of the years,   they have developed a series of mitigation 
techniques to prepare and deal with a bad tremor. First, the company has expanded up 
and down Taiwan island. Back in 1999,   all of the company's fabs were clustered in a 
single area - the Hsinchu Science Park. Today,   TSMC has massive Giga-Fabs in the north, center, 
and south of Taiwan. Each of these are hundreds   of miles apart from each other. I guess you can 
call it a form of geographical diversification. Second, earthquake early warning 
systems have improved over the years.   A network of seismic stations in Hsinchu,   Taichung and Tainan can send warnings of up to 
15-20 seconds before the major shaking hits. Third, TSMC has implemented a number 
of anti-seismic systems to prevent   potential damage done to wafers and equipment 
inside the fab cleanroom. One such system   automatically detects seismic shaking and 
intervenes to stop the fabrication process   to protect both the etching equipment 
and the wafers they are working on. Another system involves lifting the fab 
cleanroom onto sliding dampers that absorb   shaking energy. Such systems can 
reduce shake damage by up to 25%. Fourth is a series of contingency plans and 
procedures that TSMC staff know to activate   in the event of an earthquake. These are 
reinforced with simulations and training drills. There is one final backstop that I should also 
mention. And that is the strong backing of the   state, which seeks to protect the survival of 
its critical industry. While the government does   not intervene on behalf of a single firm, 
it does take action on an industry-level. Here is an example. After the 1999 quake,   the state ordered the public utility 
Taiwan Power Company to prioritize the   restoration of electricity to the companies 
in Hsinchu Science Park. This took priority   over restoring power to small business and 
residential communities. So some 20 million   Taiwanese households had their power rationed 
for several hours a day for several weeks. Of course. None of these eliminates the 
risk entirely. There’s always the chance   of a mega quake that nobody before can 
plan for. That risk will always exist. In February 2016, another very large 
earthquake hit the southern part   of Taiwan island. The 6.4 earthquake caused 
damage to various counties in Taiwan's   south including Yunlin, Kaohsiung and Tainan. Tainan is important because it hosts the Tainan 
Science Park and TSMC's second major manufacturing   center after Hsinchu. First built in 2001, the 
science park hosts several major cutting-edge fabs   that churn out thousands of chips 
for the Apple iPhone and more. The 2016 earthquake cut water to 400,000 people, 
electricity to 173,000 more and broke gas lines   for 1,241 households. 116 died, 115 of them 
residents in a collapsed Tainan building.   It could have damaged supply chains to 
the same extent as the 921 earthquake. But as a result of this preparation, TSMC 
lost relatively few wafers to the earthquake.   Only 1% of the foundry's deliveries to 
customers like Apple would be disrupted,   though there were a few delays. Of course, there are many foundries outside of 
Taiwan. You got Samsung in South Korea and Austin,   Texas. Intel in the USA and Israel. And even 
TSMC’s subsidiary fabs in mainland China and the   USA. Those are all higher-end foundries capable 
of making very powerful chips. It is not like the   world is going to return to the stone age if TSMC 
were to be struck by a devastating earthquake. But the latest, most cutting-edge chips are 
made only in Taiwan. The N7 and N5 processes   that make the Apple A14, top line Nvidia 
cards, and Amazon's Graviton2 processors.   Currently, those process nodes 
are only found on the home island. For political and economic reasons, the 
leading-edge process node will stay in Taiwan.   The company has dedicated engineering effort 
and resources into minimizing the risks to   its equipment and product output. And the 
government implicitly backs those efforts   with state-level resources. But the risk of 
another Taiwanese Big One will always remain.