- Hey, what's going on, guys? This is Ken, and I'm here in New York City at the Microsoft Surface event where Microsoft just
unveiled a lot of products. Also, Austin isn't here, so he's having me host
the video for some reason. Perhaps the real stars
of the show are those, the Surface Neo and the Surface Duo. Also, we are really, really far from them and cannot get a great shot, but here are some press images and press video of 'em, and I hope they look good. The core selling point
of these two devices are generally the same. They are dual-screen devices that fold out to reveal a bigger device. The Neo looks like a dual-screen laptop that folds out into a gigantic tablet, whereas the Duo, I'm gonna try really hard
to remember these names. The Duo is kind of phone-sized and folds out to be more of a tablet size. It kind of bridges all of
these form factors together. Now there's not a crazy
amount of information about these two devices. Microsoft actually unveiled
these literally just to get it in the minds of developers
before its launch in 2020, but here is what we do know. The Neo, the bigger one, is running a modified version of Windows
10 called Windows 10 X, which aims to be a
dual-screened optimized version of the operating system, and it's slated to run on
Intel's 11th-Gen architecture that's being made right now and developed specifically
for this device. And then on the much smaller end, we have the Surface Duo. It is actually a Microsoft Surface phone that is running full Android, so you can run Android apps, and the only thing that's
left for it now is, and the reason why
Microsoft announced it now, is so that Android
developers can develop apps to neatly work with this device. It is really neat in concept, and I actually got to hold
it in a closed-off room that's somewhere back there. It was a dummy unit, but I can say that the design
of both of these devices feel really good. The hinges feel great. Obviously, there's a lot of really cool material design there, so I think they have the hardware down. We'll just have to wait to see
how the software's executed when these things come out later in 2020. So, a surprise to no one, this is the new Surface
Pro, the Surface Pro 7, and it looks more or less the same, but there are some key differences. So something that you'll notice is that there's a USB-C port this year, something that a lot of
people have been wanting on the Surface for a really long time. But, otherwise, it more
or less looks the same. Internally, it is upgraded with Intel 10th-Gen Core processors, but I think my favorite feature of all is with the proprietary Surface connector, you can actually fast-charge
this thing at 80% in less than an hour, which I
think is really, really cool. The Surface Pro 7 will start at $749 available on October 22nd,
but of course, as usual, the keyboard and other
accessories like the Pen are also not included, so you'll have to factor that in as well. What does look new, however, is the brand-new Surface Pro X, which harkens back to
the early Surface days when it ran on ARM hardware. So this is running a custom ARM chip, the Microsoft SQ1, that is
based on the Snapdragon 8CX. Hoo! I don't know how Austin does this. Now, unlike that 8CX, this is
running on a seven-watt TDP and has a redesigned GPU, and it's running full Windows, but with a slight caveat. So, ARM apps on Windows have been a thing for quite some time, but this actually relies on
emulation to run x86 apps. Now, this might not sound great, but Microsoft claims
that the x86 emulation shows little to no performance difference as far as how apps run on it. We'll have to see how this
fares in the real world, but on the flip side, ARM does have its own
set of benefits as well. Now what this all means is a
thinner and lighter design. This is 5.3 millimeters
thick and 1.6 pounds. It also means better battery life. It means... ("Think!"J
(clock ticking) - LTE.
- LTE, that's (laughing). No, but I think one of the
most interesting things about this though is the keyboard cover. So it's like a normal keyboard cover. It has the keyboard, it has the track pad, but this one actually integrates the Pen. So, on the top, it'll magnetically or wirelessly charge
the Pen and cover it up when you don't need it. It's a really, really neat
design, and, honestly, I don't know where I'm
going with that thought. - [Jimmy] It's cool! - It's cool, thanks, Jimmy! That's exactly what I was thinking. Last but not least is the screen. So this is a 13-inch
screen in a 12-inch body, so it actually does go edge-to-edge with top and bottom bezels, which means that is is easy to hold. You're not gonna have accidental
presses on the screen, very useful for something
like the Surface. And on top of that, it has
a 2880x1920 resolution, which is 227 pixels per inch, which I think overall rounds
this thing up really well. It looks like a really cool product. Again, with it having an ARM processor, we're gonna have to wait
and see on the performance of how this thing looks,
but as a package, on paper, it looks really cool. But I think something that in particular Austin is probably super-excited about is the Surface Laptop 3. Now it comes in two sizes, the 13.5 and the brand-new 15-inch one, and there's a few
differences between both. Now this 13.5-inch model
looks fairly familiar to the previous gen. It has this cloth finish, but the distinction between
the 13.5 and the 15-inch model is that the 13.5 runs the
Intel 10th-Gen Core processors on the 10-nanometer process, and the 15-inch model
runs a custom Ryzen chip with Vega graphics. But I am not the expert on these things, so I'm gonna call one
to see what he thinks. - Microsoft have lost their
(woman groaning) minds today. I mean, they've got AMD processors, they've got 10th-Gen Intel, oh, they've got upcoming Intel stuff. They've got Qualcomm,
they've custom-designed some of this stuff with
AMD, with Qualcomm. Like, this is, so many Microsoft
events have been boring. So many of them have been so boring. Yet, they threw everything at us. - Ryzen on the Surface Laptop 3. What do you think? - It's semi-custom, but by semi-custom, I don't think it's actually
all that different. So as far as what I've been able to see, it is actually not a
physically different chip, and it's the same dive they've used on standard 2nd-gen Ryzens. - That's interesting.
- The main difference here is that they're optimizing it, which means it's a fully-enabled GPU. So I think one of the main things here is that while, yeah,
you'll probably be getting a little more performance, and it is slightly tweaked
compared to regular Ryzen, it should be much, much more stable, much, much more performative. It should be a better overall experience compared to other Ryzen
stuff on the market. - For a computer that looks like it can go toe-to-toe with the MacBook Pro, this does have some pros and
cons versus that computer. The first thing is that
it does have USB-C, which the previous
generation did not have, but this also doesn't have
Thunderbolt 3 on those ports, which means you cannot expand
to, say, an external GPU. A cool thing, though, is that
the cloth option is optional. So on the 13-inch, you can actually get this nice aluminum finish, and on the 15, it's standard,
which I personally like. But I think the biggest benefit of all is that with that Surface connector, again, this does have that quick charge, so in less than an hour,
it can go to 80% charge, which is really, really cool, especially for a laptop
that is as powerful as this. And of course, like
other Surface products, the screen is awesome. The keyboard travel on this is fantastic. It's everything that
you could possibly want in a premium, relatively thin package. It's genuinely really cool, and we'll have to get one
of these in to try 'em out. So that has been a really quick look at what Microsoft had to show
us at their Surface event. Definitely stay locked into the channel as we're gonna take an
in-depth look at this stuff as they come out, and especially since you'd
probably wanna hear it from the boss man himself.