- This is the 2022 Toyota Tundra, and today, we're gonna take
a look at the latest vehicle from our fine sponsors at Toyota. You know, that intro
feels a little bit like, I feel like I've heard
that one somewhere before. There are a lot of quirks and features with this particular Tundra. Now, you might look at a
full size truck and be like, "Ah, it's not tech enough." Well, you're wrong. Namely the fact there's
a little button here, dropped the tailgate. Inside the tailgate, we have not only a full power outlet. In addition, there are many
cameras available on the Tundra, including a couple right here, which can not only serve
as your backup camera, but also, there's all kinds
of cool toys that you can use when you're off-roading, or towing, or all kinds of shenanigans. But really where this
truck is incredibly cool is on the inside, look at this screen. So, this, my friends,
is a 14 inch display, not only is it absolutely massive, but it also is using the
brand new Toyota software for this head unit, which I've gotta say,
is a massive step up. Not only do you have real
performance with this thing, but you also have, it is
powered by Google Maps, if you see, some of this stuff is going to look very familiar. Now the screen here really is one of the biggest improvements,
not only to the Tundra, but to Toyotas in general. So, not only do you have a
large cloud connected map, you also have, and I actually don't know if you've even seen this,
Apple Music built-in. Yeah, so there's Amazon
Music and Apple Music, as well as, of course, you have radio, XM, let's listen to something that's
gonna get us content ID'd. (bright music) So, this is CarPlay running on
a 14 inch display wirelessly. So, not only do we have
what is quite literally, the biggest CarPlay
display I've ever seen, but it's completely wireless. So, if I want, I can just drop my phone right onto the wireless charger. You see, look, see? Qi charging. People don't look at trucks and expect this to be full of technology, but not only do we have what is might be one of the largest displays I've ever seen in any vehicle, this is right up there
with like the very biggest. But you also have a ton of
cool truck-specific features such as the things that are
available in the TRD Pro that we may have already driven and I'm gonna edit that in now. (car engine revving) (both laughing) This is the brand new 2022
Toyota Tundra TRD Pro. One of the interesting
things about this truck is it is actually a hybrid, so not only do you have the twin turbo V6, but you also have a full hybrid system. Oh dude, that's sick. - [Ken] Oh, that is so cool. Go, man, go, you got this.
- Go, go, go, you got it. Look at that, I'm not doing anything. - [Ken] It's making its way up. - The truck is doing this,
I'm doing the steering, the truck is completely handling
the throttle and the brake. And it's not just like, you know, you've got CarPlay and the huge screen, but you also have a lot of technology, which is in service of helping it be a better off-road vehicle, right? So, I got my front, my
front left, my front right. So I can easily see where I'm going. Well that's the nice thing,
especially with the TRD Pro, there are cameras all over it. Not only in service of using
like 360 cameras and whatnot, but also when you're on a trail like this, I mean, this is a big truck, right? You've got a full-size backseat
and a decent sized bed. And yet, a trail like this,
you can feel super confident. All right, you ready? - [Ken] Yeah, ready? (car engine revving loudly) (both laughing loudly) If you want a little bit of help when you're going down
a super steep grade, or a little bit of extra
traction, whatever the case is, trust me when I say, the
truck is smarter than you. There's a lot of other
tech in here as well. So, for example, the rear view
mirror, if you flip it back, it goes from being a mirror
to being an actual display. I mean, look, this is really cool. And then, if you want, we
can flip it right back. Of course, this truck also
has Toyota Safety Sense, which means that you have full access to the radar cruise control,
to the lane keep assist. There's a bunch of cool
stuff on that side. And then, there's just the simple fact, this is a super comfy place to be. Excuse me while I just
turn on my cooled seat and my heated seat, oh, they
don't want you doing both. I was hoping that they would
let me do both just because I feel like I want like
a warm breeze sometimes. You ever wanted a warm
breeze in your seat? Are you telling me that I can change the color of
my truck in the 360 camera? What? Why would you need to be able
to do that? That's awesome. Oh, you know, after a long,
hard day making videos, it's nice to relax in the
back of the CrewMax Tundra where not only do I have a
crazy amount of leg room, especially for a truck, but
it's also really nice back here. I also have not only a USB-A port, I also have USB-C port here and a full 400 watt power adapter, which means that I'm pretty sure I can just like edit videos back here. Like this actually feels like you're sitting in first class
in an airline or something. - This is more leg room than I
will have on the flight back. - [Austin] Yeah, well, of course. - This is not an economy class seat. We are really high up, I'm
not used to driving trucks. A lot of my cars are small
between the iQ and the Supra, but, Austin said it, this is
the biggest CarPlay screen I think I have ever seen. - [Austin] It's gotta be. - It's absolutely massive, but really, the star of the show is Toyota's
new infotainment system. - [Austin] So good. - This thing is great, I
think just on a base level, the fact that it is super responsive is already a great start,
everything's easy to read, the resolution is super high. And so, we have a top-down of our Tundra, which will help me spot any
obstacles that are in my way. So, especially as someone that
hasn't driven a truck before, this will let me negotiate a lot of really interesting
turns and maneuvers. - [Austin] Oh, look at that,
it automatically switches to the backup camera too. - Oh, that's perfect. Even my mom, who can
barely drive, sorry Mom, can probably drive this and
feel super confident in it. - [Austin] Oh, look at that sun roof, Ken, it's almost like I need extra light because it's too dark in here. Ken, that's so much power. That's so much power. - And it sounds really good too. But, of course, because Toyota makes really,
really solid engines, this V6 is incredibly smooth. It is really, really smooth. - One of the coolest
features on the new Tundra is Straight Path Assist. So, right now, I have a small
Airstream trailer behind me. And to back up, of course,
I can do it manually or I can let the truck do it for me. With my trailer mode enabled, I will hit the Straight Path Assist, you see it automatically turns the wheel and now it is going to back
the trailer up straight. So, all I'm gonna do
is ease off the brake. Start backing up a little bit and the truck is going to
straighten the trailer out. Look, there we go. And now we've got the
trailer totally straight. The truck's gonna do it for me, look at this, look at this,
it's straightening it, making sure it's straight. There's a lot of like
autonomous driving and stuff, but autonomous trailering,
that is something that's legit. Man, this thing is so full of tech. Look, I think that's the
thing that surprises me is just how much technology is
in something like the Tundra. Like, it is absolutely everywhere. So, that my friends is a look at the brand new 2022 Toyota Tundra, which will be going on
sale later this year. I've gotta say, I mean, look, we look at a lot of
different kinds of tech and obviously, this is
something that's very different, but the level of sophistication
that is in something that on the surface seems as simple as a truck is really impressive. Still driving my 4Runner though.