- Today we are attempting to cook an entire gourmet meal using
nothing but a Ryzen processor. If that sounds like a
terrible idea to you, then you'd be correct. This video is sponsored by Express VPN who were kind enough to
well enable this madness. So Express VPN is your one stop shop to keep your entire online
browsing habits safe and secure. So definitely be sure to go check
them out at the link in the description, but for now, well, we have a very questionable idea. So the way this is supposed
to work is very simple. So we are taking advantage
of a first generation Ryzen 5 and theoretically we will
be able to cook food no problem with it. So essentially the way
this would work is instead of using a standard like heatsync that you would find on
a traditional processor. Instead, we're going to take all that heat and put it into cooking our bacon and our eggs and other
equally terrible ideas. If we can take the heat that
is coming off of that processor using something like these
little copper cups which we hope is the best way to actually
transfer the heat over, then we should be able to get
that copper incredibly hot close to boiling about
220 degrees or so or about 100 degrees Celsius which should be enough to cook pretty much
everything on the table. So as far as building a PC for this, we're keeping it very simple. So all I'm doing is I'm
just putting together the most barebones of barebones systems because all I really need to do is get a copy of Windows up and running. I'm going to max the CPU
with something like Prime 95. - I bought this with this size
in mind 'cause this is about the smallest I could get without going into actual like full miniature size. - This feels so wrong. The thing is that I can't actually apply that much pressure to the top. So I actually want to try to get it sort of evenly spread right out the gate. Oh God, that's disgusting. - Here goes nothing. - Hopefully I get a nice even spread. Yeah, I mean, I stuck. That actually, that's
kinda stuck on there. This is not what liquid
cooling is all about, dude. That looks so ridiculous. - Alright, so CPU fan error
is posting in safe mode. - 91 oh wow, that's super hot. Okay, wait, hang on. Do we even need to get into, oh it's dead. It's hot. - Oh wow, yeah, you can actually feel it. - I think we should probably
change the processor though. I think first gen is probably
a little bit too warm. So I need to get this Ryzen, oh come look, look how gross that is. (Austin vocalizing disgust) It looks like someone
sneezed on the processor. That's so much thermal paste. I should think a little bit more. So now we've swapped out
our first gen Ryzen 5 with a third gen Ryzen 5. The main difference here is
really going to be in the fact that this is a much more
power efficient processor which hopefully means
that it won't overheat by the time we try to actually
get it up and running. Okay, 81 degrees already. It's not any better. That is so hot. CPU over
temperature error, CPU fan error. Now we have a CPU fan attached. Let's try that again. Dude that has legitimate air flow on the cup. I think that actually
might fix it, this is so dumb! One good thing is actually I think our job is a little bit simpler now that we know that the
BIOS will get it so hot. We actually don't even need to boot into Windows, run Prime 95. Anything like that. Literally just trying to like
sit on the BIOS seems like it's enough to cause major issues. What we may have to do is either get more cooling or theoretically, even if it's crashing,
it would still work. We can just, as stupid as it sounds. We can just try to restart it until we get to the point where
this actually works. So the plan right now is questionable. So we know that it is actually getting obviously very, very warm. That copper cup should be hot enough to cook pretty much anything we want. So what are we gonna do right now? It's going to add a little bit of butter and by a
little bit I mean a lot. So we are currently 95 degrees and the butter's almost entirely melted. That's a good sign. Should we crack an egg and get started? - Sure, oh, that was
literally the right amount. - Oh dude. - Look at that. - That was an expert pour. This is going to take a while, isn't it? That's a lot of egg. So the egg itself is actually
still pretty cold on the top. But if we look at it from
the side, we could see that the bottom is actually
significantly warmer. So we've been here quite a while. Now, if we take a look
at the thermal camera what we see it's about 37 degrees Celsius on top which is not terrible. Problem is, it's not enough to cook an egg. So unless we want to be
here all day and slowly warm the egg, I think we need
a different strategy. So it is a new day
and we have a new plan. So yesterday when we were cooking, we were able to cook the egg. The problem was there
was too much egg to cook. So if you actually looked
on the bottom of it, it actually was fully
cooked but it was only maybe about a millimeter, two millimeters of egg which is obviously not enough. So today we're going to
be using the egg whites. Alright, we're at 59 degrees
and climbing rapidly. Okay, so I assume it's
probably gonna take about, well, I was gonna say five
minutes, probably a little less than five minutes to
actually properly heat up. So do you like to pour the
egg whites or will I have the honor pouring it all
over the motherboard? - I don't trust you. - I don't trust me either. - Alright, for safety. - Oh, look at that, you're so smart. Dude, as soon as you poured that in, we actually saw CPU temperature drop. It went up to like 93 and
now it's back down to 90. It's actually properly
getting cooked there. And the nice thing is the CPU
was actually not overheating now it's sort of leveled off. I mean, 94 is incredibly hot but that's good prime cooking temperature. Dude, that's almost cooked. How it's been like three, four minutes. - Yeah. - Have we discovered
the key to perfect eggs? A tiny cup and hundreds of dollars of computer hardware? - Yeah that. So I don't want to jinx it, but I think this is a perfect time. - Cheese, do you want to
give it another minute? Do you just want to drop the cheese on it. - We're just going to drop it in. - Okay, so I think the key
here is that we have heat but we have a small amount of heat. So don't put a lot of cheese. Just add a little bit. - I think this is probably enough, right? Let me see. - Yeah, that should be fine. - Alright, sprinkle it in. Might even restrict it a little bit. Yeah, I think that'd be good. - That is not what you ever want to see. That looks ridiculously hot. But the thing is all that heat is definitely being transferred in. You can actually see the way that sort of the edges
have cooked through. Whereas that little bit over here on the right is not quite as warm. So the cheese on the side
is starting to attach but the bottom, like
the egg is almost cooked all the way through. We’ve still not killed, it's now 109. So it was super hot. So the thing is, this gives me an idea. So we know that Ryzen is actually really reasonably power efficient usually. Obviously a cooler is helpful
for any processor but I saw a video the other day
of someone on Twitter who had taken one of the Ryzen laptops. They like open it up and
they were actually running the Ryzen laptop completely bare. So there was nothing on top of the processor, no
cooler, no heatsync, nothing. And it was actually able to play a game and like sort of benchmark and stuff. - Oh.
- Maybe that's the followup to this. Once we're done with
our ridiculous cooking. Oh, like that, we actually should try on the laptop and see what happens. - Yeah, because if it
doesn't shut off like this, that's actually really impressive. - That's pretty good, right? - That's basically just
a miniature version of what you'd have at IHOP. - Smells like egg and cheese. Alright, let me taste it. Oh, it's very hot. Tastes like eggs and cheese. The cheese is melty though. Should we make some s'mores? - Yes. - I think we can melt some chocolate. - I would like to think so. Maybe not the marshmallows
might be a little tough. So I've gone through the trouble now of making a tiny s'more for ants. So I grabbed our animal crackers. I had to get it into a fine chunk that we can use for a s’more. - Dude, it's so small. - This is literally gonna
be the smallest s'more ever. And for the sake of simplicity
because I know this won't do it any favors or maybe it
will feel free to chime in. But should we put a top cracker? - No, I want be able to see
if it's actually melting or no. Now if you squint a little bit, this looks like a really cool cooking show right now. You've got like the light behind you. You're there carefully
crafting your creation. - I will call that good. Oh yeah, there we go. - Those crackers are not going to actually transfer the heat very well. So if this doesn't work,
we actually need to knock the chocolate off and
then put it back together when we pull it out. - Putting chocolate on the
cup itself is really easy. So I want to see how far we can get with making an actual s'more first. And then if not, we can just see how easy it is to melt chocolate. - So while our s'mores are cooking away, let me tell you about the sponsor
of today's video, Express VPN. So I use Express VPN because
not only do they keep me safe and secure online but also they do it with a high level of speed. No one wants to use the VPN if
it ends up slowing you down. So now it is a VPN like
Express VPN, keep you safe and secure online when
you're say on public Wifi but it even helps you with your
privacy when you're at home. So a lot of ISPs specifically
here in the United States do a lot of data logging to
see what you're doing online. and Express VPN keeps you very much safer than if you're just doing it by yourself. But the other aspect
that really is helpful with Express VPN is the ability to sort of change your location
anywhere around the world. So say you want to watch a
certain video sharing service in a different country well guess what, Express VPN has you covered. And I got you covered as well. So you want to sign up
for Express VPN right now you can get three months
for free by signing up the link in the description
 at expressvpn.com/austin. If you want to help support
the wonderful sponsor of ridiculous projects
like this and get yourself some safety and security. Go check out expressvpn.com/austin and get your three months of free service. Thanks Express VPN. I'm going to go back to making
questionable content now so that you can keep all of
the audience safe and secure. Oh yeah, the chocolate's
getting a little bit melty. So the problem is that
that chocolate actually has like essentially the
s'more on the bottom. The little Graham cracker is actually not allowing the heat all the way through. We may want to take the spoon and just sort of knock the extra. I can't see that at all. - I mean, you can see the chocolate kind of glazing a little bit, it's nice. - I think let's knock the chocolate and the marshmallow
onto the actual copper. - Okay, I mean that ruins our s'more but. - Oh, look at that. It's melted right onto the spoon. That's pretty melty. - Not too bad, hold on, alright ready? - Alright give me that sweet taste test. - Oh it’s actually really warm. - Sorry, is it too hot? - No, marshmallow was
actually really soft. I mean, it was already soft but like the heat did a little more to it. When Ryzen 4000 series
comes out on desktop, everyone's going to come
out with their benchmarks. Their reviews are gonna be
like, can this cook a s'more? Can we cook bacon on it this time? We'll see. - You know what I think it's time for. I think it's time to go
find a Ryzen 4000 laptop and see if we can actually get it to work with zero cooler whatsoever. - Are we gonna cook on it? - No, we already cooked,
that was a bad idea. - Okay. - Before we tear apart the
laptop, I do want to say it actually is a pretty
nice piece of hardware. Yes, it is quite plastic-y. But the thing is you get
pretty much everything you're expecting at this price point. Obviously, as you'll see in a second, the performance is solid when
you have it fully assembled but you have a great keyboard
like most Lenovo laptops. The touch pad does feel
a little bit hollow since it is so plastic-y,
but you have nice features like of course a standard
SSD and eight gigs of RAM. But importantly you do
have a fingerprint sensor as well as a little cover for the webcam. The thing here though I want to find out is where does it actually
come in completely stock. I want to run a series of
benchmarks and then we can begin our Frankenstein surgery to see exactly how much Ryzen can handle. So to begin with, I want to get
a little bit of a benchmark. So I'm gonna run a few
different benchmarks including 3DMark Time Spy to get a good sense of the graphics. I also do have Cinebench
which is a good CPU test. And we'll throw in a copy
of Geekbench as well just to see how this guy
performs completely stock. If you've seen our video on the
Asus Zephyrus G14 you'll know that the Ryzen fourth generation series for mobile is incredibly powerful. Not only does it have some
of the best GPUs out there but having four, six and even
eight cores in such a thin and ultimately cheap form factor
is incredibly impressive. So I have pretty high hopes right now. So just for reference, this is a system with the Ryzen 5 4500U. Ideally, I would have gotten something with Ryzen 3 which is
a four core processor. However, I couldn't actually get my hands on any of those right now. So instead I'm actually doing the mid range model with six cores. Alright, so I have all my benchmarks run. So I know where we're at for
stock which obviously is very impressive since it is one
of these new Ryzen laptops. So the next step is to shut
this guy down and start the disassembly which
I think should be easy. So we have four screws
around the CPU socket. We have our two heat pipes
which actually don't really seem to be particularly well stabilized. I think the back chassis
mostly holds them on and they have one, two,
three screws around the fan. So this little die has eight
cores and a full GPU on board. It's like the size of my
fingernail? But now I want to leave this completely open to the air and I want to take some thermal
sort of imagery of it. So what I'm gonna do so I'm
gonna essentially hook it up with a mouse, keyboard
and an external monitor and see what happens. Hey, it works. Okay, it's working right now, literally with nothing
cooling the processor at all, it is working. Oh, look at that, that's not terrible. Two gigahertz. Seems to be working, can I
open up a video? A little stuttery, but
this straight up works. I am using a Ryzen laptop. Okay, very stuttery. So my next task, I want to
get the thermal camera out and start running some benchmarks and see just exactly how this is working. So to test I'm going to be using a Seek Thermal camera
attached to the iPhone. So you can see that the camera is a toasty 36 degrees right now. But when we actually look
at the laptop, at least on this side it's not crazy,
it's seeing 36 degrees which is totally reasonable. So interestingly over here
seems to be sort of one of the hotspots which I
don't even know what that is. Maybe the VRM for the chip. The chip itself, I mean 56
degrees or so is definitely warm. The problem is that because
I'm using a thermal camera, the actual chip itself you
can see in the middle is dark which means that because it's reflecting it's actually not showing
me the true temperature. Alright, here it goes nothing. Let's fire up Cinebench
and see what happens. It literally throttles
at 0.38 gigahertz. Oh, it crashed, it was
working so well, oh man. So a good question is why does this work and this might not? Well, the difference
is that there's really nothing besides air. That's just sort of hitting the back of the laptop right now. Where this is directly attached. So between that thermal
paste, the copper heat pipes and this fan, it actually
can move a fair bit of air and efficiently transfer the heat from the processor to well the air. So let's see if this actually works. At least it's not crashing
now, so that's good. Oh, look at that, that
is dramatically better. So right now we're
sitting at 2.9 gigahertz. What are you trying to tell me? This actually works? We'll come around back here. Oh, the temperatures were actually a little bit warmer than they were before. So we're still seeing actually
really solid performance, before we were stuck
at like 400 megahertz. With the actual fan
blowing on the laptop? We're now pretty consistently sitting at 2.7 to 2.9 gigahertz on one core. I like don't even really
know what to say about this. Like obviously it's very impressive. And now we're starting to throttle down to like one gigahertz but like
it's incredibly impressive that we've come so far to the
point where, not that long ago a laptop like this would have a dual core processor
like two, 2.5 gigahertz. But now we have six cores with essentially zero
cooling all still running. I mean, yeah. It's throttle city, but it's not dead. Okay, so surprising no
one the multi-thread didn't actually make a big difference. So if you look at the
actual score which we should have gotten which is about
2382 that is a big hit with. Well, no cooling but it's
still really impressive. The real test. Can we play Crysis without any CPU cooling and GPU cooling whatsoever? So I'm turning down all
of my settings to minimum. Let's see if I can actually
get a decent frame rate here. Okay, 20, 20-ish FPS. Is this a great experience? Absolutely not. Is it super stuttery? Yeah, but I'm getting like 20 FPS. Come on. Oh, it died. It died! Look do not try this at home
but the fact that we're able to play a game which would have
stressed a laptop like this from just a couple of years ago even with full cooling is
incredibly impressive. So stay in school. Cool your processors. Don't try this at home and
subscribe to the channel for more ridiculous nonsense like this. Now if you'll excuse me,
I'm gonna go put this back together. I think it’s a
little, little bit much right now. (upbeat music)