- Hey guys, this is Austin. At CES this year, AMD has
some surprisingly cool stuff. So first of all, we have Radeon VII. Now this is the first
high-end GPU from AMD in quite a while, and
it is aiming directly at the RTX 2080. The reason it's called Radeon VII is it basically brings
the Vega GPU architecture down to a seven nanometer process. Now there are a ton of technical
reasons why this is cool, but the main thing is, is that this really gets them much more in the competitive landscape, especially considering the
RTX is kind of far and away the fastest graphics that
you can get right now. You should be able to expect
about 30% more performance than Vega 64, which
does put this very much in the ballpark of RTX 2080. And importantly, it should
be able to play games in a full 4K 60 in a lot of cases. It's also backed up by a pretty impressive 16 gigabytes of HBM2 memory, double what you're
finding on the RTX 2080. On top of that, because this
is the very first graphics card that's built on seven nanometer, they're really able to push the clocks. It goes on sale on February seventh, and I gotta say, even if
it's not quite as good as the RTX 2080, I am so excited to see AMD really playing in this space and bringing some proper
graphics performance. Even though seven hundred
dollars is still a lot. What's even more exciting this year is third generation Ryzen. Now Ryzen's been really impressive to me because they iterating
and keep making it better at such a quick rate, and Ryzen third-gen might just be the biggest jump yet. Like Radeon VII, this is the
first seven nanometer AMD CPU, and what's cool about it is that it's actually a hybrid design. So the actual CPU itself is modular, kind of like how
Threadripper is, for example. So in theory, even though eight cores is the limit right now, we could see it go even higher. What's most impressive about this is that it seems to have a similar level of performance to the Core i9, though you have to take that
with a massive grain of salt. But if it's able to do that, and what they're showing is that it's significantly lower level of power. Ryzen 3 could be super super impressive. Now it will not be out until
the middle of this year, but from what they've shown so far, it is incredibly impressive. If that's not enough Ryzen for you, there's also the second
generation Ryzen Mobile. Now this is a very similar
level of performance to what we're seeing to
the first generation, it does come down to a
12 nanometer process, and it is a little bit faster. What's cool is there's now a
lot more options available. What we're seeing is Ryzen coming into proper gaming laptops. So there's the ASUS TUF FX505 behind me, which is a fully AMD setup. It has a FreeSync display
that goes up to 120 hertz, it does have the new second
generation Ryzen Mobile, and it even has a Radeon 560x GPU. Okay, so I'm just gonna
get close to the camera because I can't step backward. What's cool about Ryzen
second-gen on the mobile side, is that you do have
that 35 watt TDP option. So essentially normal Ryzen Mobile is mostly meant for Ultrabooks, but if you want to put
it in a thicker chassis which has better cooling, you can get much higher boost clocks, which is especially important for gaming. Going way down the
stack, there are also now AMD powered Chromebooks with
their A6 and A4 processors. Now these aren't exactly super high tech, it's actually from the
pre-Ryzen actual architecture, so it means that it's not
going to be blazing fast, but considering that usually Chromebooks are in the two-three
hundred dollar category, this should give you more performance and importantly better graphics than what you will find in ARM or Intel. But that, I'm very curious to see later, because a lot of these Chromebooks are actually shipping very very soon. Look, what's impressive
about CES for me this year is how AMD is continuing
to step it up, right? The stronger AMD is, it means
the harder Intel has to work to make better chips, to
push it like more cores, higher clock speeds, just to push things and push the envelope. Same thing on the graphics side right? Nvidia obviously has had their stumbles with the RTX side of things, and while yes, Radeon
is maybe not quite up to that same level of
performance in a lot of aspects, but the fact that AMD is
still trying with stuff like the Radeon VII is a
really really good sign. The more that there's
competition in the PC space, the better everyone is, I
can't stress that enough. It's so easy to think that, "Oh cool, there's this new GPU, "it's 5% faster, there's this new CPU, "it's 7% faster. "Oh, it's two hundred dollars more? What?" That's just not good right? That's not good for anybody. So the fact that AMD is out here and doing such a good job
specifically with Ryzen and even with Radeon, is
good for absolutely everyone.