- The other day I was on wish.com, when I discovered a truly
frightening revelation. They now have a refurbished store. Yes, my friends. High tech, huge savings. Fully refurbished and
refundable within 30 days. So, Wish are out here selling you not only junk that's brand
new that doesn't work, but apparently junk that's refurbished that also doesn't work. Let's find out. Oh boy. Okay, alright. Well, the first thing I see is a refurbished Galaxy Z Flip 5G for $289. I like the number one review
from Tiffany, four stars. "It was alright as far as the phone goes, but they sent me the wrong color, and it was locked to a service when it's supposed to be unlocked." I would say, Tiffany, no offense, that's probably a little
less than four stars if you get a different color device that's locked instead of being unlocked. So, this is a little desktop for $92, the CHUWI CoreBox. And it's probably not gonna be very fast. I mean, we're talking dual
core 5th Gen Intel processor. I mean for 91 bucks,
this might be alright. But wait, what is this? 'Cause they show a MacBook
Air and a MacBook Pro? What? MacBook Air/Pro, 11/13 inch. What am I getting here? Is this just I pick whatever I want? Oh my God, dude. You pick the size. And the size doesn't say, MacBook Air, Pro, whatever. It just says the model number. So, unless you are well
versed with the difference between an MD760LL and an MD2240LL/A, you don't really know what you're getting. Sure, add to cart. This is gonna be a garbage dump. A Galaxy Tab 3, which is ancient. I do think this tablet is about as old as half the people watching
this video right now. This Droid Mini is, oh, good lord. When did the Droid Mini come out? I wanna say that was like 2011? This is a very old phone. For 55 bucks? Sure, I'm down. That's a legitimately neat item. So with that, let me hit
that big red order button. Give it two to five months
for everything to show up, and we'll see was it really a good (laughs softly) I'm not gonna finish that sentence. Of course it's not a good idea, but we'll all go on the
train wreck together. (train engine blaring) Oh wow! Our items from Wish have arrived. All of them showed up relatively quickly, and I believe they were all
from various US sellers. - [Ken] Wait, these are Wish refurbished? - Are you here without understanding the premise of the video? Did you not watch the first two minutes of the video before you got here? - No, that's not-- - No. - We don't watch Austin
Evans videos, what? - Okay, so this is the Lumia 735. - [Ken] Yo! - And they say refurbished,
this is in the box. If you're not familiar, Nokia was once a great friend
and partner of Microsoft, so much so that actually
they purchased the company. And when Microsoft purchased them, they basically made them
exclusive to Windows Mobile, or Windows Phone as it was
known a little bit later. How much did we pay for this Lumia 735? - [Alex] A whopping $60. - 60 bucks! This is the kind of stuff that I could absolutely get behind. Some sweet Microsoft
branding on my five watt USB. Actually, was it 10 watt? - [Ken] This isn't the
first time we've seen a Microsoft plug on Austin's channel. (Ken laughing) Got him! - This is certainly more
of a collector's piece than something that you
would actually want. But the fact that I found
this brand new in box on Wish, and I can do an unboxing of it eight, nine years after it first
came out is really cool. But like, oh, it immediately pops up! Look at that, look at that. We are firing up as we speak. Can we check that's not an OLED? - [Matt] That's not a $12,000 phone, because that's what an OLED was back then. - No, no. The S3 had an OLED, and
the S4 and S5 had an OLED. - This has a OLED display! Look at that. - No way. - 720p, 312 pixels per, what? Okay. - I called it, boy! - [Ken] Now he's gonna gloat. He's gonna gloat. - No, it couldn't be an OLED! Ooh. Oh, we can get in a taxi. It's so far away! Where's the sidewalk? - [Ken] Okay, why are you, don't attack us! - You know, sometimes I am right, and anytime I am, I'm happy to proclaim
it from the rooftops. Austin was right! Austin was right! So it's gonna be a little slow, for sure, but let's see if we can
actually watch a video here. It's loading, it's got one gig of RAM. So, we have to be patient. - [Ken] Wow. - Ah, it works! Hey, this is fine. I still have a lot of love, and look, I'll admit it, definitely rose tinted glasses, but this era of hardware and software I feel like had a lot of potential. I think this is also a phone, 'cause we ordered a few phones here, but-- - [Matt] Is it ringing? - No? - [Matt] Then how do you know? It's true. - Because-- - [Matt] Scientific deduction, okay. - Oh, it's our Moto Droid XT Mini. - [Ken] Droid! - Okay. So we just took a look
at that Lumia, right? Feel how heavy this little (squeak) is. (laughing) - You are out of control today. - Back in the old days, before Android was a household name, there was Droid. Droid was a very, very big deal, and there were a number of Droid models, and this is the Droid Mini, and boy, oh boy. is that, just fill my hands up real nice. Oh, we know. Okay, I will say, so unlike the Lumia, this
one has certainly been used. It's in, I would say quite good condition. It also has 1080p video and 10 megapixels. What year did the Droid mini come out? This must have been 2011. - [Matt] 11 or 12. - 2013. - [Matt] 13. - 2013? We've got an always on
display, the active display. We also have Droid Zap, which allows you to instantly share with a simple gesture of, (making gun noises) I will say, YouTube is
struggling real hard on this guy. It is so slow. Which it shouldn't be a surprise considering that it is over 10 years old. This is a sample of the video coming straight off of the Droid Mini. It is like saturation and contrast cranked up to 100. Oh my God, you're zooming in! For 2013, this is actually
really pretty neat. Thankfully we have one more phone, and I have it right here. It's a Blackberry mobile device! I like the fact that I take
off the screen protector, and yet the screen looks no different. (crew laughing) - [Ken] It's stick, oh great. That was in some CEO's ass crack. He went and sniffed that? Like, why would you do that? - Where exactly do you
keep your phone, Ken? - I like to keep it between my-- - [Austin] Okay, nevermind. Nevermind. moving on, moving on! - Natures' pocket. (crew laughing) - My mom watches this channel. - [Ken] That's not where I
thought that sentence was going. - So we've got a wide variety of apps here that are mostly BBM, which is the only reason
why you'd buy one of these. One of the things that
made this slightly more of a business-y phone is that this was outfitted with not only the micro USB, but also the micro HDMI, meaning that you could plug it into a dock and actually try to use this as, maybe not a laptop, but at least a device that you could sit down
with a keyboard and type, and have like an external
monitor and stuff. I think RIM were really trying to have some kind of relevancy, because by the time this phone came out, the iPhone was absolutely dominating. Android was completely
eating Blackberry's lunch. Even Windows Phones still existed. Like, it was one of those things where they had to try something, and unfortunately they
were not successful. It's not awful. Let's try the camera real quick, 'cause unfortunately, as
with lots of older phones, outside of a couple of key apps, they don't really do anything anymore. I bet that looks beautiful. Oh (duck quacking), that's beautiful. Now we have to decide here, like, is Wish actually a good spot
to buy refurbished tech? Like, so far, at least with older tech,
it's a resounding yes. Prices have been good. I would say the condition has been solid. But why don't we try some
slightly more modern tech that you actually may wanna purchase, to see if this is the same
junk as everyone else sells, or if Wish are really onto something. This next item drew my attention for one reason and one reason. Actually, no, technically two reasons.
but really one reason. Are you familiar with
our friends at Chuwi? You know, Chuwi. - [Ken] Like the Star Wars character? - No, not Chewbacca. No, this is the Chuwi Corebox. It's a little unclear. We purchased it for, it was
like 58 bucks or something. - [Alex] No, it was almost 100. - [Matt] Whoa! - What, no? It was $57, right? This is a little desktop for $92. [Alex] We paid almost 90 for it. You can buy it now for around 60. - What! It went from 90 to 60? Right after I bought it? Dammit, okay, well, behold. - [Matt] Okay! - The Chuwi! - [Ken] Wait, actually, that looks kind of dope. - It's like a little mini Mac Pro. I purchased this as a refurbished item. This thing is brand new as hell. I wonder why we keep getting these brand new items in the
refurbished section. Is it either that Wish are lazy and they only have a handful
of refurbished items, and they're just putting
a bunch of new stuff on there to fill out the segment. Or B, because it's a brand new thing, they're incentivizing the
sellers who are actually the ones who fulfill the items to put
stuff at really good prices. Either way, I'm batting
a really good average on brand new items that are
supposed to come refurbished, and that's pretty cool. Well, let's actually set this thing up, get it fired up. So we have gotten
ourselves into Windows 10. Let's see what we've actually
got to work with here. Spec wise, we do have that Core i5-5257U, which is not like a terrible CPU. We have eight gigs of RAM, which looks like it might be upgradable. A 240 gig SSD. If this was actually used,
which I don't think it is, I'm pretty sure this is
like a brand new computer. If this was really used, I'd be like a little
borderline for 90 bucks, right? But considering this is
a new system that seems to have a fully authentic
copy of Windows 10, and this is enough performance that you could do basic home tasks on, or use this as a NAS or something. Like, it's not terrible. You may be asking, wow that's a really scuffed Xbox
Series X actually got there. Well, thankfully this was not from Wish. This is a refurbished Xbox game from Wish. Now I think this should be pretty straightforward, hopefully. I'm just curious on what kind of refurbished Xbox game does Wish sell? So it's, well, it's very simple. Oh my God, that is, wait, this is from VIP Outlet. That's a VIP Outlet label. So it says this is Watch
Dogs 2 Deluxe Edition, includes extra content. Doubt. But let's take a look at our $9 copy of Watch Dogs 2. There you go, Watch Dogs 2 shows up. So I actually think that
this is a functional game. So while we let our Watchdogs install, what if I told you that there's a company who has made the perfect accessory to go with your Xbox Series X? Yep, you heard me right. I'm talking about Sony. Wait, that's a? - [Alex] Sony? - Okay, so you know how I just was pointing out this is a VIP Outlet label? This is a Target label, clearance! Was $99.99, now $29.99. How much did I pay for this? - [Alex] You paid a cool $40 flat. - So some mother(squeak) went out there and bought this on clearance
from Target for 30 bucks, and resold it to me for 40, while having the audacity of leaving the, (Alex laughing) (flames roaring) And we have our INZONE H3. I have a little bit of a problem with this headset at 100 bucks, because it just doesn't
feel quite that expensive. But at like 40 bucks,
this thing's a no-brainer. So as much as I'm not happy about the whole clearance thing, this is fine, this is okay. It's brand new, I got a good deal on this. As far as playing Watch Dogs 2, I mean, if you really
care about Watch Dogs 2, you can feel free to, but the inconsistency in
the quality of the items and where I'm getting them from
does feel a bit concerning. Like, just 'cause I get
four or five good items, I think I could just as easily get four or five absolute trash items. There's no real, like, solid feeling of quality, like oh, they're actually on top of this. It just feels like Wish are just randomly grabbing stuff from all over the internet and just reshipping it straight to you. So when I saw a Samsung Galaxy Z Flip listed as a refurb model on Wish, you know I couldn't say no. Now, this is a Z Flip 5G, which is technically the Z Flip 2. It says store, eBay. Did I? I definitely purchased this from Wish, but it's actually, it was from eBay. Huh, okay. Let's take a look, that's very unusual. This is our Z Flip 5G. I will say that bronze looks terrific. I just like that colorway. And the screen is, ooh! Oh snap, this actually looks
like it's in good shape. I think whoever bought the
Z Flip did not use it much, 'cause it actually feels fresh. And keep in mind that this was a $1,450 phone when it came out in 2020. 2020? 2020, 2020. I will say, the only real
flaw I can see with this, and it's really small, there is a scratch on that outer screen. It's subtle, but there is
a little scratch there. Whoever refurbished this, they didn't actually completely wipe it. So not only did it jump straight into the interface without
needing me to log in, but it does have the battery
level app on installed, which you would think that they
should have actually wiped. That being said, everything
else seems to be in good shape. The screen itself, I'm looking at it with a white display, it is in good shape, so there's
no burn-in that I can see. Clearly no scratches or anything. Oh, the outer display is broken. Normally if I double tap the power button, so you hear it. So if I hit this button, that's gonna take a photo right now. (phone camera clicking) But I do not see it there,
so that's the downside. Is this worth 290 bucks? I think it's an okay deal. It's not terrible if you
want to get a folding phone, you don't wanna commit to
a huge amount of money. Like, this actually is still decent, but the fact that it came
with the broken outer display, like, it's not that useful. But I don't buy a refurbished device to have a almost flawless thing. Like, I want all of my screens, buttons, cameras, all that kinda stuff to
function, and this just doesn't. So what I'm gonna do is
I'm going to contact Wish, and say, hey, this outer display doesn't work. Gimme a refund, gimme a discount, gimme a swap. Whatever they recommend,
I will be open to, but I'm gonna basically see if they can do something to make this right. I gotta say, the return process
was actually pretty smooth. So I was able to use their AI chat bot online to process the return. They gave me a prepaid shipping
label, I shipped it off, and within less than a week, I have my refund for the Z Flip. No real questions asked, I
don't have to talk to anybody. So thumbs up for Wish
virtual customer support, I guess? So inside this box is a
MacBook of some variety. So I purchased this on Wish. It gave me a MacBook Air/MacBook Pro with a bunch of model
numbers and sort of specs, but I don't actually
know which one this was. For $217, it looks like a MacBook Air. So I guess I have a MacBook Air now, in a case and a power adapter, and that's it. First impressions, this is
in shockingly good condition. Not only with the case,
but also just physically. Like this MacBook looks, I would say, A plus quality. Like honestly, there is nothing that I could possibly complain
about when it comes to this being a refurbished machine. Uh oh. Oh! (Austin yelling) (Austin cheering) This MacBook Air did so many things right that they sold a gajillion of them, and they're still good
computers even today. Now the big downside, I would say, is with the screens. So this is I think on the 13, like a 1440 by 900. Like, it is the opposite of retina, and that was one of the main downsides to using these MacBooks. The screens are mid at best. So it is running High Sierra right now, so it is a 1.8 gigahertz Core i5, eight gigabytes of RAM, and let's actually see what we're working with as far as battery. 'Cause that's one of the things that I always worry about
with things like this. Ooh, okay. 408 cycles, and it is service battery condition. So that's a big problem. I would, if I had normally purchased this, I would probably spend another
50 bucks to put a battery in. I do wanna take a look at one more item that we're gonna try with this. I have bought a number
of AirPods from Wish, and they were all fake. 100% of them were fake. These are supposedly real
refurbished AirPods Pros. So what better way to
experience my beautiful new MacBook Air then with some real, real good AirPods Pros, shall we? Alright, inside we've got... AirPods Pro One. - [Alex] Well, I
really hope they're real, because we paid almost $150. - Oh God. That's so much money for used AirPods. Good lord, alright, these are the first Gen too, which I feel like you
could probably buy new if they were still around for that much. 'Cause you can buy AirPods
Pro 2 for like $200. So the fact that I got the
last Gen refurbished, yikes. Let me first start by making sure this is a real wireless charging case. So I'm gonna turn on my power sharing. Okay, so theoretically if
I put this on my Z Flip, it will start to charge. Yes, okay, cool, so it is the real
wireless charging case. That's cool. Let's try to actually listen to some music or something on these. Now I don't wanna be
too judgmental on these, because I do think that, because this version of macOS I think predates the AirPods Pro, it's like sort of semi supported, but the controls are being finicky. They kind of work and they kind of don't, like yeah, it won't, it will pause but it won't play. The AirPods Pro do appear to be authentic, but hell no are they
worth 150 bucks, right? There's just no shot
that you could do this. Now, yes, they are refurbished-ish. I mean, they seem perfectly clean. There's nothing that's
obviously wrong with it. The value alone kind of makes them a no-go as far as I'm concerned. Now, this MacBook is a little
bit more of a tricky subject, because I do believe that this is a very minty 2017 MacBook here. Like, I will give them that. It is in excellent condition. The problem I have is
not so much with the fact that the battery is in poor condition, which it would be nice to know that, but that kind of speaks to a bigger overall problem with Wish, in that most sites that
sell you refurbished stuff are very clear with what you're getting. You're gonna see the condition, you're gonna see the grade, you're gonna see an explanation of the battery life may be low, or may be scratched, whatever. But on Wish, it's like, hey, it's refurbished. Deal with it, sucker. Sometimes, in fact I would say most, of the items we got today were actually in really good shape, which is impressive. I am impressed by Wish Refurbished, but the inconsistency gives me huge pause before I could recommend it, because I could have just been lucky. None of this feels like, oh, Wish is the spot to get your stuff. Wish is the spot if you
want to roll the dice and hope that you get something decent. Because I feel like for every good item that's in great condition, that's new in box, that's a great deal, there's probably just as many
absolute stinkers out there and you have no real idea
of how to separate them out. Thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe to the channel, ring-a-ling the ding-a-ling button, and let me know, is it time
to give Wish an A plus, or should we just wish that we had moved on to a different topic. One thing I'll mention is that while I was going through the return process, I was looking through Wish
and I noticed something. They have removed the refurbished section. Now, to be clear, Wish still sell lots of refurbished items, but they no longer advertise
it on their homepage as they're the home of refurbished stuff. And while you can see some
refurbished categories, none of them directly line up with what we were able to order in this video, which got me thinking
on how serious is Wish really about this refurbished stuff. Austin was right!