What do you know about twin primes, Brady?
- (Brady: I know that they are prime numbers)   (that are separated by 2. Is it proven they're 
an infinite number of them? Or is that still- )  (No, they haven't got that twin prime conjecture 
yet have they?) - The twin prime conjecture   is still called a conjecture and James 
Maynard talks about that on Numberphile   regularly. They've got the gap down, but 
if they can get the gap to 2 to prove that   there is always going to be another pair of 
twin primes no matter how far you look then   it'll be a big deal in mathematics. Not because 
necessarily that solves the world's problems but   it's a problem we don't really know how to solve 
at the moment. I feel like I have an affinity with   with twin things; I have a twin 
brother which some Numberphile viewers   may have heard about on a podcast. But 
let's explore a fact about twin primes,   I'm not in James Maynard territory here, I am a 
maths teacher not a A-grade mathematician but I   I'd like to try a little experiment. I'm going 
to write down a number which you can't see,   I'm going to write it on the back of this just to-
- (Okay you're going to write it there.) My prediction, yeah.
- (I can't see what you're writing.) And I need you to grab a calculator.
You could do this in your head but I don't   think you should. I'd like you to pick 
your favourite pair of twin primes. Put you on the spot now.
- (All right,   well I can't go too high, I'm gonna go) (I think- I think I've picked two 
that are prime, yeah, alright.)  And I'd like you to- I mean I it doesn't matter 
if I see what you're doing, because I've made   my prediction right, I can't go and change it. I'd 
like to find the product of those two twin primes: (17 times 19.) And then I'd like to find the digital root of 
that; by which I- your face is good, it's a shame   viewers can't see your face, Brady. The digital 
root is the- a technical name for add the digits   together and if you don't get down to a single 
digit you do it again. So a digital sum repeated. (All right, so the digital root of that is 8.)
- Really?   You wanna just uh have a little glimpse here at the number 8 which I've carefully written. 
Yes! I'm glad we're impressed by this.   It's not a good magic trick but it is a curious 
thing that I knew what was going to happen. And   did I know because I got lucky? I think we should 
try the experiment again. 101 times 103 - I feel   like I should be able to work this out but for the 
sake of speed let's just trust the electronics.   This is 10,403 and I add the bits together, the 
digits 1 and 4, that's 8. Let's try another pair, I'm going to go and look up a pair of twin primes.
- (I just found 617 and 619.) 617 times 619, and add the digits we're going 
to get 26. If we do it again you get to 8.  But I'm glad you chose a larger example, sometimes 
the digital it takes a couple of steps to get down   there, sometimes it takes a lot longer. But it 
does look like it's always gonna be 8. And so   that's quite a nice fact, if you believe it, that 
the product of any twin primes has a digital root   of 8. And for all the things we don't know 
about primes, and the things we don't know   about twin primes, do we know that that's true 
or is it just a fluke in the first few examples?   (Or do all primes do this? Like- like 
7 and 11 which aren't twin primes?)  Should we try? I mean 77, add the 
digits. - (14, 5. So 5 is the digital.) Counter example. The Brady Conjecture was nice 
for a moment but we found a counter example.   Actually a serious point, like mathematicians 
finding counter examples to disprove things   is just as important, right. You reject the 
dross - sorry to insult your your conjecture. So not all prime- products of primes do this, 
it's- we've check three examples but obviously   that's not enough. So what I'd like to do in 
this video is prove it. I'd like to prove it two   different ways; just to point that if something 
is true there's not one way to prove something and   then proof becomes less about getting the answer 
right, and more about a communication. And that's-   it's something which is a lot overlooked in 
mathematics. The stereotype of it being right or   wrong it's actually much more about communicating 
well. So we'll do two proofs of the digital root   of a product to twin prime as being 8. Proof 
one, ready? Uh so I'm going to talk about   modular arithmetic here; and there's a it doesn't 
feel like there's anything to do with this until   you recognise that almost any anything- when you 
talk about digital roots is to do with thinking   about modulo 9. Now you know about modular 
arithmetic, but just as a reminder it's where you-   if I'm going to count in mod 9 I would count up 
to 9 but 9 would be the same as going back to the   beginning and 0. And so the number 10 mod 9 is 1, 
because it's 1 more than a multiple of 9. And the   number 26- should have should have planned this 
shouldn't I? Is- let me guess uh it's 8 more than   a multiple of 9 so it would be- 26 equals 8 mod 9.
And the reason I'm doing that is anytime you're   talking about digital roots mod 9 comes into play 
for reasons which we'll come to maybe as a bonus   proof at the end. But if I think about things 
mod 9 I'm going to think about the prime numbers   mod 9. So just work with me here; the 
prime numbers as you know start with 2,   I'm not gonna get into the argument about 1 and 
it's not important anyway, because actually when   I was going to do this trick I should have said to 
you, can you pick two twin primes bigger than 3.   And I didn't say that because people normally 
do. But I do need to say bigger than 3, and   that'll become obvious why. Uh have I got these? 
2, 3, 5, 7, 11, uh 13, let's go up a little bit   further the next one I think is 17 and then 19 and 
then we've got to jump to 23. Let's go with that.  So if I go mod 9 I'm looking for the 
remainder dividing by 9. Now the first few are   pretty easy, even for me, but this 11 - just help 
me out, Brady. Mod- like you so mod 9, what's   left over if you took away a multiple of 9?
- (2.) Yeah, I agree. And so everyone else is keeping 
up, that's fine, that's a 4 this is almost up   to the 18 so that's going to be the highest you 
can get mod 9, and that's going to be one more   than mod 9 and that's going to be by definition 
4 more than that so it's got to be 5. Do you have any comments about the the list we're 
getting here? And I'm actually going to kind of   separate these two, because they are the first 
primes they're often special. This is the only   even prime, and that is the first odd prime; 
beyond that what's the next one going to be?   29, and that's a 2. Spoiler: it doesn't repeat. 
And maybe we'd be worried if it did because   the pattern of primes is notoriously important 
and unpredictable and the all sorts of Riemann   hypothesis stuff is tied up with this. So 
I'm not going there, but do you think we   would ever get a 3 in there? (I'm guessing 
not but I'm just trying to figure out why.)  - Okay let's start with the simple 
one, will you ever get a zero?  - (No because it will be a multiple of 9.)
Right. If you get a 0 mod 9, it's a  multiple of 9 and therefore definitively 
not prime. Now 9 has a factor of 3 in it, so   will you ever get a 3? Will you ever find a prime 
number which is 3 more than a multiple of 9?  (No because it will be a multiple of 3.)
- Yeah, so 3's out as well and for the same   reason 6. And actually that's it. We've 
seen the others, 0's not there; 1, 2, uh 3's out, 4, 5, 6 is out, 7, 8.
That's all of them. So the first conclusion is   you're never gonna get 0s, 3s and 6s. That doesn't 
feel like it's rocket science uh if you understand   primes, but it does have a consequence because 
when we pick a pair of twin primes it means if we   work in mod 9 we're only going to get either, what 
did we say? A 1, a 2, not a 3, a 4, a 5, not a 6,   a 7 or an 8. Those are the only options we have 
mod 9. And a twin prime is going to have to be   2 apart, literally the definition of twin primes. 
So we've actually not got many many options left,  what I'm gonna do is kind of a 
proof by exhaustion. I couldn't do   the original thing by checking all the cases, but the nice thing about working 
modular arithmetic is that you quite often   turn it from a infinite list into a finite list 
and then you can check everything. So if I found   a twin prime that ended up 2 mod 9 I would need to 
have the other twin mod 4. So if you do 2 times   4 you get 8 mod 9. The big step I haven't commented 
on is that what is mod 9 got to do with digital   roots? Well, everything, and I want to save that for 
the end. But if I tell you now that the digital   root of a number is exactly the same as it 
mod 9. We can prove that later if we need to.   But that's it - so I- if I found uh two twin primes 
that are 2 and 4, multiplied they're going   to get 8 mod 9, which is the digital root. So 
the only option other option we could have a   4 matching with a 6 - no we can't have 
that. We could have 5 matching with 7;   5 times 7, uh 35, which goes digital root
to 8, so that one's working. What else could   we do? 7 we'd need to match with a 9 
but then 9's not in the list. 8 would need   to match with a 10, but 10 is 1 mod 9 so we 
could have an 8 and a 1, and that is also 8.   And that's it. Whatever you do, if you pick 
two twin primes and multiply them together   you're gonna get an answer which is 8 mod 9, which 
is the same as the digital root. And so it's a   slight obfuscation, I'm just saying if you multiply 
two twin primes, the way the primes distribute   themselves you're always gonna get 8 mod 9. And I quite like it.
- (I do feel like I need to see why mod) (9 is is digital roots.)
- Should we do that now?  (I feel like I want to see it, yeah.)
- Okay, let's do that now. Digital root is equivalent to mod 9, that's my 
claim. And I'm going to prove this in a way that I-   you could do more generally but for 
the sake of notation I'm going to do   an example of a three-digit number. If you 
imagine a three-digit number as abc; it could be   321, could be 926, whatever. I'm not 
treating these as multiplying together, they're just   representing the digits algebraically that would be written as 100 lots of a,  plus 10 lots of b, plus c. And I think that's after 
a moment's thought if that's not familiar it's not   too surprising, because hundred, tens, and units are 
sort of a helpful thing. Now if you want to upgrade   this proof to do a four-digit number you just 
have a thousand of another letter at the front.   And you could do this in general, it's 
just- it gets notationally confusing   and I want a proof to be notationally not 
confusing to get the sense of it, and then   you can upgrade the formality later on. So the 
digital root of this number abc is a plus b plus c.   Agreed? It's the three digits added together. 
Maybe you do it again if it doesn't come to a   single digit, but that's the step you do, so that's 
the sum of the digits. And now I'm going to work on   the actual algebraic version of the number to show 
you that this, that it's equivalent to mod 9. So 100a,   it won't be surprising to you 
to learn, is the same as 99a's   plus a. And the catch here is you don't know why 
I'm doing that. And I've done something similar   with the 10b, I turned it to 9b plus b. And the 
reason I've done that is that I've got in this   algebraic expression I've got this a, b, and c 
which is kind of what I'm aiming at over here.   So if I rewrite this as 99 a's plus 9b's plus 
abc you can see that the the sum of the digits   is in the number itself, and what's 
left is 9 times something. And that's it. Proof two: uh we're trying to prove again that 
twin primes- the product of a twin prime pair   has a digital root of 8. Imagine twin primes; 
so I can imagine a number n, the next number is n   plus 1, and the number after it is n minus 1. I'm 
going to claim that if you have a twin prime they   are going to be 2 apart - this is not representing 
its primeness yet but I'm going to say if that   is one of your twin prime then that's the other 
one. It's instructive maybe to look at the product   of these two things, all I'm doing is checking the 
product of numbers 2 apart at the moment. So n   minus 1 times n plus 1. So let me upgrade 
slightly, I'm going to say that in this list of   three numbers that we started with, uh certainly 
one of them is going to be divisible by 3.   Again it feels so obvious when you realise why, 
like- but there's a list of three numbers right?   So if that one's divisible by 3 we're done, if 
that one's not divisible by 3 then either this   one is or this one is because this is a list of three numbers. 
- (One in every three numbers is)  (divisible by 3.)
- Exactly. If they are primes, because they're twin primes, they are not divisible by   3, agreed? So this one is divisible by 3, 
so I'm going to call it 3k. We've sort of   upgraded our information; if these are twin 
primes then this one is a multiple of 3,  guaranteed. In fact, we've just proved by thinking 
that every twin prime has a multiple of 3 buried   between them and it's not really that surprising 
when you think about it. So if we upgrade then   instead of using n I'm gonna use 3k then 
this expression becomes slightly different, the   product of the twin primes looks like 3k 
minus 1 multiplied by 3k plus 1. Let's   do some algebra - expanding brackets live on camera 
is always dangerous - this is going to be 9k squared   minus 1. So the product of twin primes is 
going to look like that. K is an integer, uh it's   been multiplied by 9; it's been squared as well but 
I don't really care about that, tell me about this   mod 9 - it's negative 1 mod 9 but we didn't put that 
in our original list and negative 1 is going   backwards from 0, so mod 9 I could add 9 and get 
away with it. I just wanted the 8 to appear in   the digit, so this equals 8 mod 9. And that is-
it feels like a really different proof to me,   we haven't done a proof by exhaustion, we haven't 
gone to check the mod 9s of all the primes - we   just did an algebraic argument, identified 
that there was a multiple of 3, and then   the algebra tells us, well it's going to be 9k 
squared plus 8. And that's it. I don't think this   is a great magic trick, I know I've presented 
it a bit like that but I like the idea that   once you've got a fact which is always true it 
feels like you can exploit it. A nd I'm not saying   this is a useful fact it's just a curiosity about 
twin primes which we can prove in several ways.  So first of all that exists and I like it, and 
secondly I like reflecting as a mathematician on   which proof do you prefer? Because there isn't a 
right proof and a wrong proof, there's a there's   a proof which works for you and there's proof 
which works better for you or worse for you, and I'm trying to redeem mathematics from being 
this robotic thing to be a human enterprise. We're   communicating truth - sounding very highfalutin -but the proof is important.
- (I think I liked) the second proof. 
- (The algebraic one?  Yeah I think I-
- (Because- because I didn't see it) (coming as obviously.)
- The algebra just drops out suddenly, whereas the first one feels like it's   a tedious listing thing and proofs by exhaustion 
often feel like that. Proofs by exhaustion are   exhausting to check, they feel fiddly, they feel 
like yeah you've reduced it but you've got to check   them all, this feels like bam!  This episode has been 
supported by Brilliant, makers of fantastic courses  and puzzles like these that you can do from the 
comfort of your computer or tablet or your phone.   Get smarter, have fun learning, enjoy these 
super interactive and lovingly designed lessons.   Everything about Brilliant's created with care, 
with the aim of improving the way you think.  This new everyday math course has some great 
practical stuff in it. If you haven't signed   up to Brilliant yet you don't know what you're 
missing, and if you have, well why not consider   Brilliant as a gift? It's really great for people 
of all ages, some of it's simple, some of it gets   more advanced. You can also get 20% off a premium 
subscription by going to brilliant.org/Numberphile   You can go and have a look at the website 
without a subscription of course, but make sure   You use the /numberphile for the discount. 
Thanks Brilliant for supporting this episode. All right. It's a mouse!