This video continues our epic investigation into 
induction and today we're going back to question   6 from the 1988 Math Olympiad - it's pretty 
legendary, we've discussed it on the channel   before on more than one occasion, but Zvezda was 
one of the few people who as a student managed to   crack it and she used, you guessed it, induction.
- Zvezda: One of the iconic problems   from the international Math Olympiad, Australia 
'88, Brady you have done videos on it but I was   there as a student, I solved the problem and 
my teammate, Emanouil Atanassov, he got the   brilliancy award for his solution. My solution 
involved induction and a cubic polynomial.   His solution involved induction and a quadratic 
polynomial so it was simpler and we will talk   about Emanouil's solution now.
- (Brady: So we're going) (to look at the way that he did 
it, not the way you did it?)  - Yes. Mine was pretty close, 
it had this extra linear factor,   which I don't know how I concocted but it was 
there and it's a perfectly legal solution but   to this day I remember Emanouil's solution.
- (Were you jealous afterwards when you) (found   out that the two of you did it differently and his 
won the brilliancy prize? Did you think,) (oh I   wish I'd done it that? Or were you still happy?)
- You know, never. I remember talking with   Emanouil about vaguely similar problems before 
the Olympiad and he was asking me some questions   about them so he must have understood something 
I told him better than I understood it myself;   and actually for me it took only 20 minutes 
to solve this problem. Again, I had never seen   something exactly like this before, I don't know 
what overcame me and number theory was never my   forte; I love for example geometry, algebra, but 
number theory and all of a sudden you get this   moment in your life where 20 minutes defines your 
future because after the Olympiad, a year later,   I came to the United States on a scholarship. How 
was I selected among thousands of students from   Sofia University on only seven scholarships for 
Bulgarian students to come to the United states?   The Australian committee wrote a recommendation 
letter for me and they said, that was the only   girl who solved this iconic problem, take her! 
And here I am standing in front of you and looking   back and understanding that was the moment of 
no return; this is what brought me to the United   States. We were super happy for Emanouil to get 
the brilliancy award, in fact lots of brilliancy   awards have gotten to Bulgarian students so that 
wasn't a total surprise. (What's the question?)  - Yes, so you start with two numbers which are 
stubbornly given to you as natural numbers and you   will see why I call stubbornly. You are also given 
that the following ratio: a squared plus b squared   over 1 plus ab - and I'm going to call it r for 
ratio - happens to be an integer. Well okay, it   must be a natural number because these are natural 
numbers here. Okay, what do we have to show? Prove   that this ratio r is a perfect square. 
So what does a perfect square mean?   It means that it's something like 1 squared or 2 
squared or 3 squared etc etc and squared for some   natural number n. So for instance you 
cannot get here for r, I don't know,   seven fourths - because that's not an integer and 
in fact we're not even interested in this. But   more than that you cannot get 7 because 7 is not 
a perfect square. So our job is to explain why you   cannot get 7, why it has to be a perfect square.
- (And how old were you- when you were sat down   and had to answer this) (question? Or prove this?)
- I think I was 18. Now what we're going to do is   something non-trivial. We have two variables here 
a and b. r isn't given by the problem as variable,   I just put it there, but it turns out that it's 
r that is going to give us an anchor for solving   the problem. While a and b are going to vary 
throughout our solution r is going to be fixed;   and that's an unexpected twist. So we're going 
to fix this ratio r and then we will simplify   the pairs a,b that give this same ratio r. So 
if I start with one pair that is given to me,   I will somehow reduce it to a very very simple 
pair - let me not give away how simple that will   be - that will again give exactly the same ratio 
r; and the conclusion will immediately follow.   Okay what are the ground rules here? The new 
numbers a_n and b_n that we find, those pairs,   so let me just once again emphasize they have 
to give the same ratio - so if I plug them   into this formula I should get the same r - those 
numbers I'm going to allow them to be non-negative   integers, so not just natural numbers from 1, 
2 and so on but I'm going to add a 0 to that.   Because this is my creation I can do whatever 
I like, I'm the boss. So a_n and b_n will be   possibly zeros, they will still be integers. And 
to cut this abstraction and make it very specific   I'm just going to give you an example. 
Suppose I say my ratio is 4. 4 is good,   4 is 2 squared so this should work, and what 
numbers a and b could I take? Let's say I take   a should be 30 and b 112. All right, so this 
is just an example; let us see if this works.   So we plug this in - oh my goodness look at this 
huge number, you can check me at home - and what   do you think this ratio is? I think it's 4! Let's 
check that, 4 times 1 is 4, 2- yeah yeah okay this   works. All right, so that's our starting pair.
I want to simplify, how can I do this? So now   take your original fraction here and rewrite it 
differently. Next I'm going to pull everything to   the left hand side but I will start regrouping 
things - let me see if you can follow this - r times ab is right here, pull to the other side, 
and then the remainder is b squared minus r. And   this whole thing has to be zero. Now if I write 
it like this this looks like a quadratic equation,   and so I will replace a by an unknown x but leave 
absolutely everything else the same. And so what   this equation is is quadratic, so it will have 
two roots: x1 and x2. Now x1 we already know   at least one of them has to be a, a satisfies 
this equation, and so there is another root   x2 which- let's call it a1. So there is 
this phantom second root of this equation.  What kind of a number is a1? I would really like 
it to be a non-negative integer so it can fit   into my scheme. Well, I can immediately say that 
it's an integer - why? Because Vieta's formulas   tell you that if you add the two roots of 
your quadratic equation you'd better get   negative of this coefficient which turns out to be 
rb. And from here x2 this other phantom root is an   integer because everything involved here is 
already an integer. Could this x to be negative?   I don't want that. Well one easy way to show that 
it's non-negative is to go back to the original   ratio and plug it in. Now, after you backtrack 
everything you can replace everywhere a by x- by   x 2. So x2 should work here too. So in other words 
if I do x2 squared plus b squared over 1 plus   b*x2 that should be our original r. 
This is supposed to be non-negative,   in fact positive, this is our 4. Well the top 
is positive so the bottom has to be positive;   but could x to actually be negative 
here? Because b is already positive.   x2 is an integer; if I start subtracting integers 
from 1 things will go sour because I could   hit 0 which I don't want in the denominator or I 
could get negative altogether in the denominator.  But the whole ratio is positive, so there is 
no way this x2 could be negative. At worst   it could be zero. All right, so x2 is not just an 
integer, it's a non-negative integer. So this this   phantom twin is good for us. And so let's try 
to find it in our situation: 30 here is our a,  and 112 is b. So what was the formula for x2? 
There is the formula. So x2 will be rb minus   x1 which in our case r is 4, b is 112, and x1 is 
a which is 30. All right but what is that guys?  This doesn't look good, this looks more 
complicated, it looks larger right?   It looks something like 418. So what I have 
obtained is that the pair 418 instead of a and   I'm going to keep b will also yield this ratio 4. 
But instead of simplifying my problem I actually   complicated it, I got larger numbers! So what am 
I going to do? Who said that I have to tackle a? How about we try to replace b? 
I mean if you look at this pair,   it's more reasonable to try to reduce 
the larger of the two numbers, 112.   But absolutely the same analysis 
that we did for a works for b. So if I rewrite this equation as b squared minus r 
ab plus - so I'm just flip flopping a and b - and   now b is going to be my unknown and I will call it 
just y. And now I have two roots, one of them is   b, and the other one- let's call it b1. So what 
is b1 in this case? We will have again Vieta's   formulas, but mind it, this time I'm getting ra 
not rb. So this phantom second root is ra - y1 so ra minus your b. Uh-huh, will that save 
the day? So now we're going to hope we can   simplify this 112. All right, well right here, 
what do we have? y2 will be- remember r is 4,   what is a? a is 30, b is 112 - oh 
this looks hopeful - 120 - 112,   that's 8! 8 is better than 112. So what I 
have just produced for you is another pair,  (30, 8) that also gives this ratio. Now I'm 
sure at this point you guys don't believe me,   let's quickly compute 30 squared plus 8 squared 
over 1 plus 30 times 8. All right what's that? 964 divided by 241 - is this 4? Yep it is 4. So this 
pair gives exactly the same ratio as the other two   pairs. Ah now, you feel better. So what am I going 
to do? We can see that we could reduce the larger   number down, so can't we now reduce 30 down? Let's 
try. And I know the formula for reducing the a's,   it was our first derived one. So if I want to 
find now the twin to 30 I'm gonna do 4 times   my b is 8, so 4 x 8 minus- and x1 is 30 -
ah this looks splendid! It's 2! We are getting there Brady, we're almost there. 
There we go, so what is the new pair? Instead   of 30 we put 2. b survives, no change, and again 
you are doubting me. Does this give the same 4?   Of course; 2 squared plus 8 squared over 1 plus 2 
times 8, what's this? 68 over 17, bingo that's 4.   So which of the two numbers 
should I now reduce? 2 or 8?  - (8.)
- 8 - of course 8. And for 8 it's that formula here. So what do we 
do? y2 is 4 times a is 2 minus 8 for y1, what is that? That is 0.   And that's why actually the problem works 
because you get to this forbidden zero.   The creators of the problem deliberately didn't 
give you the possibility of plugging in zero here,   they said that a and b have to be natural numbers, 
but we go beyond what they gave us and we create   our own world of solutions - slightly extended. So 
what am I talking about here? This 2a turns into-   2 stays and 8 becomes 0. Does this give our 4? And 
here I doubt anyone will have any doubts. There is   nothing to come from here and I'm dividing by 
1 so the only thing that's left is 2 squared,   which is our 4, but 2 squared was our original a 
squared. That's really the reason we are getting   perfect squares, because once you start with 
any pair of numbers that work for the problem   you will reduce it one by one until you get to 
a pair that contains a zero, and then you wave   the victory flag - what was it the chequered 
flag? Something. You- Brady you fill me in on-  - (It's chequered flag.)
- The chequered flag, that's right. Now   where is induction in this? I don't see infinitely 
many steps here, these were finitely many. But I don't know what the initial pair is. I 
cannot just argue by this example. It starts   somewhere and I need the general reasoning to show 
me that this process actually works, brings you   to a pair that has a zero in it; and it doesn't 
go on forever. Here I actually want it to stop.   So this induction will be finite induction, you 
have only finitely many dominoes. And that stops   the process, the moment one of our numbers turns 
into zero we stop the car and say we are there,   we have arrived. I need another sheet of paper.
- (Okay. So just so I'm clear, the rat- so the) (ratio is not always 4. The ratio will be 
the square of whatever the first number is?)  - Yes that's right. This was just for our 
example so we can clearly see concretely how   this is working before we get to the variables. So 
now the proof. What we just did was a particular   example - I agree a very convincing one - but 
we need to wrap this in a technical package so   that it fits in our vehicle of induction. It 
is the inductive step here that needs to be   confirmed that it actually is always works for any 
variables, not just for our particular numbers.   Here is our ratio and I'm going to fix it 
as r. r is some integer, positive integer.   a and b are natural numbers and what we did is 
we rewrote this as an equation, that equation   was quadratic like this, then we replaced a by 
x and we created two roots, one of which was   a and the other one by Vieta's formulas turned out 
to be rb minus the other root, or rb minus a. And   then we did exactly the same thing with a and b 
switched. So instead of x I am using y and now we   create two roots here, one of them is b the other 
one is ra minus the previous root, or ra minus b.   Okay, so now what do we do? We start with a 
pair (a, b) that yields this ratio r. I'm going   to conjecture- not conjecture but assume for a 
moment by contradiction that our method fails.   It means that if I attempt to replace a by 
its twin root a2, but keep b, I'm going to   be enlarging. In other words a2 will be bigger 
than a. And at the same time if I keep a but   replace b by its twin I'm again increasing or even 
equal - so in other words I'm not doing anything.   So assume for a moment that this is what's 
happening, we don't want this to happen.   We want actually to go down, not to go up. Okay 
where is our contradiction? Let us go back into Vieta's formulas and they said that 
the sum of the two roots x1 + x2 is rb   and the sum of the other two roots is our a. One 
of those roots here, let's say x1 that was a,   and one of those two roots is b - so b + y2. So 
uh what have we done here? We have just written   Vieta's formulas but those are just one part 
of Vieta's formulas, there is a second Vieta   formula which concerns the products of those two 
roots. So what is the product of the roots of a   quadratic equation? It is the last coefficient 
over the first one, but here the first one is 1;   so this is going to be equal to b squared minus r. 
And similarly for the other quadratic equation the   two roots should multiply to a squared minus r 
- again this is Vieta's formulas. Okay now I'm   going to continue: x1 was a and then we got x2, 
y1 was b and we got y2. Okay, we are almost there.   What did we assume about x2? x2 was this a2. We 
assumed that x2 was greater than or equal to a,   and everything is positive so this is greater than 
a times a which is a squared. And we did exactly   the same thing for b, that was y2 was b2. That is 
b greater than or equal to b times b, b squared.  The problem is that I have on the left hand 
side something that's actually smaller than   what's on the right hand side, but I I'm claiming 
exactly the opposite. Because if I add everything   what will I get? a squared plus b squared minus 
2r on the left is greater than or equal to   a squared plus b squared. And that is not going 
to happen because that means that 0 is greater   than or equal to 2r, or r is negative, but that's 
in contradiction with what's given. We avoided   ruining our proof, we actually showed 
that it works. So with our pair (a, b)   we cannot be going upstairs. At least 
one of these two pairs must be smaller;  and you can prove for homework that actually 
exactly one pair will be smaller and the other   one would be larger. And when they say 
smaller I don't mean that the numbers   both of the numbers are smaller, that one of the 
numbers is smaller and the other one is fixed,   and that's all we need. And so with this proof 
at hand you will start creating a chain of pairs,   each of which gives r. And the numbers inside now 
could potentially be zero because of our formulas,   Vieta's formulas, but that's okay. The 
only thing that they cannot be is negative.   And so you will keep on going, what does it mean 
keep on going? It means I'm using induction.   So keep on applying this algorithm until one 
of the numbers becomes zero, and I don't know   ahead of time which one it will be - whether a 
or b will turn into zero but the important thing   is that the ratio is kept the same. And so far I 
haven't said anything about the ratio, at least   on this brown paper, but we are ready to show that 
the ratio is a perfect square because if I plug in   any one of those two pairs into our expression 
this is what we get; in actuality you're not   going to have both of them, you're going to 
have just one of them but I'm writing them   for completeness here, and this is going to be r. 
So r is going to be equal either to be n squared   or a_n squared which is a perfect square, and 
now we are truly done after finitely many steps.   For homework: you can actually compute 
what is the largest number of steps   you can ever have? Another homework! 
Brady, do they give them homework?  - (No I don't- I want to know 
what the number is! Because I) (love numbers on Numberphile! Will you whisper it 
in my ear later? Because- or is it is it like a   fi-) Really depends, it depends.
- (So it could be ver-)  - Yeah if those numbers a and b 
are large you can go many steps;   but um as you saw in our original example 
at the very end we were going very fast.   At any rate, what I wanted also to say is 
that you can go backwards. You can start   with any pair of numbers, one of them 0, so (0, 
b) or (a, 0) and backtrack with Vieta's formulas, those guys here: ra - b, rb - a; backtrack and 
create a recursive formulas for all of those   pairs that actually satisfy this problem. And, 
you know, investigate and study them. But for   our purposes for for solving this problem at the 
Olympiad, what we cared is that we hit a wall.   We hit this 0 for one or the other variable and 
that's where we put a full stop to the induction.  - (You were basically kids! This is amazing!)
- Aspiring to be adults at that point, yes.  (Apparently Terence Tao who is like, you know, 
the most famous mathematician in the world; he) (was also at this Olympiad, and he 
didn't get it, he couldn't do it.)  - He wasn't just the Olympiad, 
he was actually in my room.   Yes, so all of the participants in the IMO were 
split into several rooms and I may have been even   the only girl in my room, I don't remember, but 
when I looked around it looked like only boys.   I had slept really poorly the night before 
and I basically didn't sleep. I was so tired,   I knew that if I don't solve the problems very 
quickly I'm just not going to survive the test.   And they give you four and a half hours for 
three problems every day, so this is day two,   and our problem that we discussed was 
number 6 so one of the three problems.   I was ready in about an hour and 20 minutes, 
done, with all three problems. I don't know   what possessed me, I had never done this before. 
I attempted to give my papers and go and sleep   because I was so tired. They told me for security 
reasons you cannot leave. Okay, so then I returned   to my chair and I fell asleep. I actually slept 
for probably about two hours, which was very nasty   of me because some of the boys around me knew me 
from the previous Olympiad in Cuba, so they knew   that I would not fall asleep unless I had solved 
all the problems. But I couldn't help it, I was   just out. And so then I wake up, look around, 
everyone is still continuing to solve the problems   and then again I attempt to leave about an hour 
early. So finally they let me go, and on walking   outside my coaches saw me and they're waving:
"Zvezda, why did you leave early?"   Well if they had known how early I could 
have left. Later on that day as I'm walking someone is pulling me, you know, by 
my skirts, he's pulling my skirt.   And I look down and it's this star participant, 
an Australian representative, Terence Tao-  - (Because he was very young?)
- Oh he was super young yeah. So any rate he was   in my room, he obviously remembered what happened, 
he witnessed all of this. And so he's pulling my   skirt and saying how did you solve number 6? And I 
start saying I used the induction on the product.   He says thank you, turns around and runs 
away. Amazing, so the word induction   on the product, that expression was enough 
for him to go and complete the rest of   the solution. Actually I don't know if he 
completed it but at least that- he did not   want any more hints, that was it for Terence.
- If you'd like to hear Terence Tao himself   talking about question 6 check out our 
interview with him here on Numberphile.  And we haven't quite finished with induction 
yet, we've got another video on our Numberphile2 channel; there will be a link on the 
screen and in the video description.  - ..the famous question yes.
(What- what what's your recollection of it   now and why? And you you didn't get it right?)
- No I did not get it right.  - (How do you feel about that?)
- I uh- well you know you win some you lose some.  Oh boy I uh- I have- it's so long ago 
now I don't remember much about it.