- 10 years ago to the minute,
my apartment burned down. (flames roaring) Oh my god. It's crazy to think about,
if I'm honest with you. Now, before you get worried,
this is not a retirement video. I'm not trying to jump scare you, but 10 years is an enormously
long amount of time, and it feels like it's a great opportunity to take a second and absorb
how much things have changed. So, (sighs) it's funny
when people come up to me and say, "Hey, man, what's up? I like your channel." The number one thing that
usually follows that sentence is, "Yeah, I can't believe I
started watching your videos when your house burned down." Now, if you're a newer subscriber, you may not have seen that video. And to sum it up, back in 2014, my apartment burned down to the ground. It was an experience. You're more than welcome
to go check out that video. It is very, very popular,
(laughs) 'cause I don't know, I guess it's not something
that happens a lot. It was a crazy day though. I think back on it some,
it's like 10 years ago, it feels like it's this
insanely long amount of time. But I remember it like
it was just yesterday. I remember I had stayed
up late the night before. I was working on a browser test video back when I still did
those on a regular basis. And I remember I finished the video, I uploaded it, went to sleep. I was sleeping in and I
heard shouting and screaming. And I remember I opened my eyes and looked outside and I had curtains, but it had one of those little
arch windows on the top. And I saw just black
smoke all over the window. And I hopped out of bed. And
at first I thought like, oh, someone like their barbecue
caught on fire or whatever, 'cause the way that my
apartment was set up, it was like a three-story thing. I was on the third floor and some people had barbecue
bits right out front. And I remember even a couple months actually before this had happened, this exact same thing had happened. Someone's barbecue had caught on fire, but it was just their meat got burned. It wasn't any kind of big deal,
but it scared me, you know. So, this time, I jumped up,
grabbed my phone, ran out, and as soon as I walked
out into the living room, I saw just black smoke, just
billowing all over my patio. And at that point, I knew
like, oh, this is bad. It was a moment where I had
everything in the apartment. I had everything. I stopped to grab a, I had a little safe, a little fireproof safe
that I had some stuff, like my passport and whatnot. And I grabbed my keys, I
grabbed my MacBook Air, I had my, I think it was my
iPhone 4s and I booked it. I ran downstairs, came
around to the front, and the apartment was just on fire. It was going. So, it was a reset in my life. I really think about things
before fire and after fire. There's a few moments like that I think that most people
have in their lives, but it was a thing. And honestly, within an hour, the apartment building
didn't exist anymore. If you go there now,
it is a concrete slab. There is nothing left. And I was not able to get really anything. If you've seen the video
I think I found like, oh, was it like, I found like an iPad that was someone else's and stuff. I found some straps... Actually, you know what? It's funny, I should grab it
off the set here real quick. It's a fragment of "Harry
Potter and the Goblet of Fire". Found a few pages of this in the fire when everything burned down. I keep it as a little souvenir
on the back of the set. So, this is a opportunity for me to have a little
one-on-one with you, guys, because I think a lot of people are thinking about their
future right now on YouTube. And I think that it's a
good thing to consider. Every good thing has to come to an end. That's the way that life works. It's a good thing that things
have to come to an end. Change is what drives progress and new ideas and new generations. It is a good thing. But it's not a good thing when you're on the wrong
end of that change. And whether it's burnout,
whether it is a lack of interest from your audience, whether like... There's so many YouTubers who have been successful over the years, and then their audience outgrew them. Whether it's the content, whether it's the humor,
whatever the case is. When everything just goes
up and up and up and up, it feels like it's going to
go up and up and up forever, but nothing goes up forever. There's always going to
be, maybe not a reckoning, but things have to level
off at a certain point. And I think that for a lot of
creators, that point is now. Now, I will tell you that
point is not now for me. I am not quitting. I am not giving up on
content anytime soon. There are a lot of reasons
why creators are quitting. And I think that we've
all seen the videos, we've all seen a lot of the people who we've watched for years and years, we've come to rely on just
decide that, hey, I'm done. But I think that it's part
of something that's healthy. And the fact that YouTubers
have had such longevity, I think is a good thing. I know that it's very popular to complain. It's very popular to go, oh no, YouTube changed, blah, blah, blah. And I get it, I get it. I really get it. But I'm a true believer in the idea that YouTube has enabled me to live a life that I absolutely would not
have had access to without it. I was a 16-year-old kid making videos out of my mom's basement. I was taking screenshots on an iPod Touch. I pulled the microphone
from "Rock Band" for PS2. I'm like, hello, welcome
to, blah, blah, blah. There is no scenario
in which a guy like me should have ever been able to
do the things that I've done. And I entirely credit that to YouTube for giving me the voice and
the platform to find myself and to be able to do just the unbelievably amazing
things that I've done. And it sucks when things go downhill. And I've experienced that. The views we got in 2020 are a lot better than
the ones we get today. And content changes. I know
that there's a lot of you, especially if you're watching this video, there's probably a lot of you who've watched the
channel for a long time, and you've seen the evolutions
that we've gone through. We used to do PC builds all the time. We used to do real tech reviews. And over time, that has
evolved into (sighs) different stuff. And look, I'm happy
with what we make. I am. I don't wanna make it seem like, oh, we gotta follow the algorithm. Like, no. I enjoy doing Mystery Tech. I enjoy doing these crazy, wacky videos and making more entertainment than some of the more hardcore tech stuff. I'm happy with it. But I fully recognize that a lot of you who are watching this
video miss the old days. And to that, I would
just say things change. If you're not evolving, you're dying. I truly believe that. And especially when it
comes to online content, it's so, so fast.
(fingers snapping) People who are tremendously
successful yesterday can be absolutely left behind tomorrow. It's not actually that fast, but it feels like it,
it really feels like it. And when you have algorithms
and shifting audiences, and always something
that's more tantalizing right around the corner
on that next click, on that next thumbnail, it
is a bit of an arms race. I love it though. I do, I really do. I absolutely love what I do. I am excited to wake up in the morning. I'm excited to come into the office. I'm excited to work with
a bunch of amazing people. I'm excited to make cool videos. I make a lot of videos between
here on the main channel, between This Is, between on
Denki, between on Instagram, between doing live streams and podcasts. And I truly, truly at the bottom of my heart, love being a creator. And I can't imagine my life
without it, I really can't. I am 31 years old and
I've spent half of my life creating content every single day. And it's funny to think that 10 years ago when my apartment burned down, I didn't... (Austin sighs) I was making content at that time. It was my full-time job,
but I was by myself. I didn't have Overclock as a company. I didn't have anyone to work
with. I didn't have an office. I literally went from my
bedroom to the second bedroom, which is where I had my little studio and my office and everything. And it's funny to think back at how much that really changed things. It really, really changed things. And not to sound too conceited, but I think it changed
things for tech on YouTube. Before that fire in January of 2014, 2014, the tech space was, we
were friends, we got along, there was no beef or whatever, and there's a few people who
I was really quite tight with, but there wasn't a sense of comradery. There wasn't a sense of community that had really formed yet. A little bit, but it
hadn't really formed yet. And the fact that when
my house burned down, a huge proportion of the tech
community rallied together, sorry, rallied together and tried to pick me up off my feet or put me back on my feet. Not only did that mean so much to me, but I do believe it pushed us all forward. That was one of the first big
collabs that we had ever done. And I think to what happened throughout the rest of 2014 and 2015, I think about the night that Lew and Jon, who just, they showed up to
my house or my parents' house, maybe two weeks after the
fire, whatever it was, surprised me with the
Mac Pro, with gift cards, and with these videos that they had made of all these messages from all the people who had
chipped in and everything. And it's like, I think
back to that night, sorry, I didn't mean to do this, but
I think back to that night, Jon, Lew, and I were there eating Chili's, and Lew is pitching ideas and I'm talking with Jon about stuff, and we're like, why don't
we just go make this thing? It was like a music video. And we did it a couple months later. And then, we did a video with Joe Rogan, and then we started just all
of us creating Team Crispy, which if you're not a longtime viewer, that might not mean anything to you. But it was a huge, huge deal. And I think that it was a happy
time for YouTube and tech. It really helped us all get on our A game. And for several years after the fire, obviously I'm biased, with
the rose-tinted glasses and looking back 8, 9, 10 years ago, but it was something
special, man, it really was. And now, it's different.
Of course, it's different. Everything's different. I'm sure you can think of
(chuckles) relationships and times that you had years ago and those aren't coming back. It's a different kind of thing. 10 years is a long time,
and I'm incredibly grateful. Please don't get me wrong. I'm incredibly grateful for how far things have
come in the last 10 years. I went from being a guy who's shooting videos out of my apartment to developing these amazing relationships with so many other creators,
to moving out to California, getting an office, founding Overclock as
a company, hiring Ken. And now, we've got a dozen people who work here making
YouTube videos every day, which is an insane idea that that is the thing that
now I am responsible for. And it's like, I don't know, man, it's crazy to think that 10 years ago, I was standing in front of my
apartment on fire thinking, what the hell do I do now? (sighs) I'll never forget when the fire had quite
literally burn itself out. I was sitting around and trying
to figure out what to do. I remember Jon Rettinger. God, I love him. He called me. He was one of
the first people to call me. My house was still literally on fire and he called me and go,
"Hey, man, are you okay? Can I overnight you some camera gear, so that you'll be good?" Like... (Austin chuckles) Yeah, I just, I remember that day I
was hanging out, waiting, didn't really know what to
do when everything was done. I jumped in my car, I
had my keys, thankfully. I didn't have my wallet. And I remember, this is the days before Apple Pay and everything like that. I had to go to the bank and just convince them with
zero documentation at all. I think I had my
passport, but at the time, I didn't have the key to get
into the lockbox, whatever. So, I had to go to the bank and convince them like,
hey, I am who I am. Can I please have like a hundred bucks? Thankfully, the people at
the bank knew who I was. They probably shouldn't have done it, but they let me withdraw some money with literally nothing besides just, I showed up and asked for money. I drove to Best Buy. I bought chargers for
my phone and my laptop. I'll fucking never forget this. I drove into the sunset
in my little Honda Civic listening to The Marshall
Mathers LP 2 on full blast. The stereo sounded terrible,
driving into the sunset with nothing but 20 bucks
in my pocket, (laughs) some chargers, a laptop, and no idea what was coming next. (laughs) It's funny to think about
that compared to today where I have the team,
we have the company, we have the office, we have the channels. I'm married. I have children now. What? (laughs) God, it's just wild. I hope you'll forgive me for
going down memory lane here, but it's like you guys have been with me for
my entire adult life. I can't picture my life without YouTube, without creating content. It's been almost 15 years of this. (sighs) It's insane. Which kinda, I guess
brings me to the future, and that sounds really ominous. The future is bright, my friends, for all of this, it's good. Things are not where they were in 2020, but they're not where they
were in 2020 for anyone. I think YouTube was artificially inflated, as many things were
when people were at home and watching more content. And there was a PlayStation 5 and an Xbox Series X coming out. Those are heights that, I'll be honest, I'm probably never gonna hit again. And I'm okay with that. I'm like, ok... No, I'm not okay, I'm good. It doesn't sound like I'm good. I don't believe it when
it comes out of my mouth. But I really am good. So much good has come
in the last 10 years, in the last 15 years
because of this platform, because of all the amazing people that I've connected through, through it. And look, I have all the
sympathy in the world for every creator who is
going through burnout, who is having a tough time as views dip, as they watch TikTok and Instagram Reels and YouTube Shorts start
to nibble away the edges of the views that they used to get, as they see the big creators who absorb hundreds of millions of views. And you go, what happened to me? I could not sympathize with
you more. I totally get it. And you know what, if a year from now, the channel is a fraction
of what it used to be and I find it more and more
difficult to justify going on, I would be sad as fuck
too, man, I really would. But I'm thankfully not in that spot. And I am thankfully in a position where I am going to keep making videos and I cannot see an end date for it. There will come, it will be, there will be the last video
I post on this channel. It will happen at some point. Hopefully it's a video
I get to choose to make and not a video that is unfortunately the last thing that's posted. (laughs) That sounds dark, man. But you know what, no day is promised. Every day, you gotta appreciate
what you got, you really do. You never, ever have a day promised. You have nothing promised to you in life. I truly believe that. Appreciate what you got. And I'm gonna appreciate what I have. Thank you for watching this video. Sorry if I clickbaited you, but, man, it's like, I've been thinking a lot
about a lot of things lately. And (sighs) especially with
everyone talking about retiring, 10 years since the fire, it felt like this was
the perfect opportunity for me to have a real chat with, y'all. Because videos like this shouldn't work. They don't usually work. You
shouldn't post stuff like this. I should be making a
Mystery Tech right now. But every once in a while, I
think it's important to be real and hopefully you'll appreciate that. 'Cause I think it's helpful for me too. Thank you for watching.
Thank you for supporting. Thank you for letting me do what I do. I could not be any more grateful
and I probably should be, but I'm just, I'm happy,
things are in a good spot. I work hard, but I love what I do, man. I really love what I do. Is it stressful? Sometimes,
yeah, you better believe. But at the end of the
day, I'm living my dream. I'm living beyond what
I could have dreamt. And I want to be appreciative
and not take it for granted. Every day I get to do this is a happy day. So, thank you, thank you,
thank you for supporting me, for supporting other
creators who you enjoy and thank you for the (laughs) last 10, 15 years of watching videos. Man, I'm not going anywhere. If I have any choice in the matter, I'm not going anywhere at all. I'm gonna keep making videos. The content will evolve. The stuff I make a year from now will be different than today, as it will be for 5 years from
now and 10 years from now. It is going to change. I am sorry if you love what I make today, it's gonna be different. I don't know what it'll be. It's gonna be a constant evolution. But you know what, thank you for sticking
here through these years and I promise for every day that I have the opportunity to do it, I'm gonna keep making content that I enjoy and that hopefully you'll enjoy as well. So, that's it. I'm gonna hit the stop button now. I will see you guys in a next video, which will be totally normal and this'll be a little blip that no one will probably watch. (laughs) Enjoy every day. It's not
promised, it's not guaranteed. Like really appreciate it.