I'd like to tell you a bit about my latest obsession which is the early days of the railway; things were very exciting. So you have to imagine this is like completely brand new. They had no idea of the best way to send trains around the country. At this point in time stage coaches had been the normal form of transport, and with stage coaches they had timetables - but I mean they were loose at best. So posters would appear saying what time a stagecoach would leave and it would often appear with a caveat like 'God willing'; and 'leaving at 12PM, barring accidents'. I'm not actually joking, those from genuine posters by the way. So when it first came to trains they kind of had the same attitude; just, you know, chuck a train along the track and it'll be absolutely fine. Timetables- I mean these are considered quite loose guides. So there was one guy particularly famous, he was known as the railway king, he was called George Hudson. He was once shown that actually his trains would often run really late, and so he countered by saying that actually often they also ran early, so that on average his trains ran on time. That's the kind of world we're in. If a train didn't turn up at the next station they would often send a train out along the same track in the opposite direction to look for it. I don't know about you but I can definitely see a problem with that. And actually Brunel in particular had a very lax attitude towards safety. So he was once asked what he would do if he saw another train coming towards him and he responded that he would basically stoke the fires, go full speed and just try and ram them off the tracks. Just a little bit of background for you from the type of situation we're in. But then there were some really quite major accidents; once passengers started going along the railway rather than just freight there were some quite major accidents. And people realised that it was really important to work out a way to make sure that there was only one train on a piece of track at a time. I'm going to struggle to continue my excitement of this because I think it's genuinely amazing, but this really incredible idea was had by a French railway worker called Charles Ibry, this is 1847. And he decided that maybe what we should do is use a very particular type of graph - I'm calling it a train graph, I'm not sure if that's the official phrase, but here is how the train graph works. So his graph manages to simultaneously show all of the stations between Paris and Rouen. So you have all of these stations along here - I'm not even going to pretend that I know what they are - do you want to give me some comedically French names? 
- (Brady: Renault, Eiffel Tower) Yeah, okay okay. You got the Eiffel Tower, you got Renault up here; Poincare I'm pretty sure. (Alain Prost?) (Zinedine Zidane?) Look this is accurate - you've got Oh la la, there we go, and baguette. This is getting increasingly problematic as we go along. So you've got all of your stations, the important thing about this is the distance between the stations on here represents the distance along the track, you're representing the real railway track on the paper. But the other dimension of course is time, and then along here - let's say your trains start at like 6AM and then let's go through to like midnight. So you've got a one-dimensional map on one side and then you've got the time of day along the other. Now you can start adding trains on this. So let's say that you have got a train that leaves Paris at 6AM and gets to Rouen at - I'm just gonna assume this is quite a slow train, given the way that I've drawn this graph, just go with me. Okay so you've got a train that leaves Paris at 6AM and let's say that it gets in to Rouen at let's say 3PM. So now all you have to do is draw a straight line between the two, right, that's kind of straightforward and nice and easy. Let's imagine then that you have a train that you want to leave Poincare and it leaves Poincare at 6AM and it gets in let's say at 5PM. Now that looks like it would be fine, you could just draw that line on the track; except you would have a massive problem if you did that because where these lines cross on this graph, it also means that they cross in real life. It means that there is going to be a point at about 3 o'clock in the afternoon where these two trains are going to have to cross over on the same piece of track. (So basically that that Paris train is) (going to kind of go up the back side of) (that one isn't it?)
- Exactly. You're going to have a giant problem, you've got a really slow freight train and then another fast one that wants to come through. I mean you just can't do it. So if you want- if this train can't go can't go any faster the only option that you have is either to move this speed train and change the time of that, or instead to just slide this train along, and have it so that it actually leaves Poincare just after this express train has come through. So have it so it does something like this. So now actually that's fine, that train fits all nicely there's no problem there at all. Or the other option is that you could change the speed of this train so that you can still have it leave at 6AM but actually try and give it some gusto and just make it go a little bit faster so that maybe it arrives at 1PM. So still not quite as fast as the express train but just going a little bit faster, those are your options. A little bit later you could say, at this station here, at Alain Prost, at Alain Prost you could have a sort of vertical line so that at every point during the day there was a place at which a train could pull over and allow another train to pass, so that any crossings along that line of Alain Prost are actually actually fine it's not a problem at all. In fact let's do that, let's let's draw a line. So anything along this red line of Alain Prost is absolutely fine. So anything that crosses there isn't going to be a problem. But you start populating this graph with all of these trains, anything that needs to go from one place to another. This essentially allows you to fix how fast trains can possibly be; because you know absolutely cold hard fact you cannot have two lines crossing on this graph unless they're at a special station where you know there's a place to pull over. So if you've got this really kind of well populated graph, remember they're always going in this direction because time always moves forwards, and in this particular example they're always going from Paris to Rouen rather than the other way around on the line that we have. But this is like a way that you completely have your constraints totally fixed. Now the thing about this graph that I think is so amazing; invented in the 1840s, still used today. So until very very recently if you went into somewhere like National Rail you would find people with- with literally like this, pieces of paper and rulers working out exactly how fast the train is; faster trains being slightly steeper, slower trains being a slightly shallower gradient, and they would literally be with a pencil and paper trying to work out how to timetable new trains. And all of the software now that has replaced the paper still operates on exactly this principle, that the best possible way to create a timetable for real life is to kind of visualise it in this imaginary space of distance and time. In Singapore on the MRT, the metro stations there, there was an issue a couple of years ago with a rogue train. So there was this this problem on the track where lots of trains were losing power, they weren't really sure what was going on; and it wasn't one train that seemed to have an issue, it wasn't like they could narrow it down and say, okay this is the train that's that's the problem. It was lots and lots of different trains were having issues. And they worked out what the problem was only by using one of these train graphs because when they plotted the entire day's timetable on the train graph they could see that actually one naughty train was essentially emitting a signal and causing knock-on effects in any train that passed it. So it would be as though this train as it kind of goes along ends up causing a problem in this train and in this train and in this train; anytime it got within the vicinity of another train, this naughty train, the rogue train was causing an issue. And it's only by visualising it using these graphs that they spotted that was the problem. Check out the links in the video description for more of our videos with Hannah; we'll also have links down there to the latest of Hannah's books, podcast work, anything else that might be of interest: go and check out the video description.
- I always thought that those were the couples who who would end up being the most successful, but the team found that it's actually the exact opposite that's true.