.- I have seen your comments, "Buy AliExpress tech.
Buy AliExpress tech." Fine. I'm going to AliExpress to look for some of the most unique
gadgets on the internet. Okay, so this looks very Temu or Wish-y. Oh, this actually is interesting. A $4 PS4 controller. I can get behind that. Yo, oh, actually this is kind of cool. Okay, so this is one of the things I know AliExpress is known for. So, I can buy screens for a wide variety of Nintendo consoles. That, I think, is actually one of the main
advantages of AliExpress, is that they tend to have a
little bit more niche items but at significantly cheaper prices than you would find on
like Amazon or something. I'm not gonna do it for this video. But there might be a thing
where I try and maybe fail to buy a bunch of stuff from AliExpress and fix up and refurbish
some old consoles. Subscribe and ring-a-ling
the ding-a-ling button if you wanna see that video. I actually kind of want to try to buy some junk consoles to fix them. That actually would be legitimately fun. $3 for a little microconsole. Now, this, I will say, again I'm not actually
seeing this one specifically. I've tried some that are kind of similar, and these are kind of bad, but at 3 bucks? Whatever, man, I'll give it a shot. I had so many things in my cart right now and I've spent like 25 bucks. This is great. This is great. Categories. Oh, let's go to Men's Fashion. Exotic apparel? Ha! Woo! Oh wow. A ball lifter? Well, we're gonna censor this. Nope. (speaking gibberish) (gasps) Oh, ho, what the? Someone has taken an actual, supposedly motherboard from
a GameCube/Wii, I guess. They've modded it into a
GameCube controller handle and it's portable. $500.
(cash register dings) Ah, I've gotta try this. I've 100% gotta try this. Oh, okay. It got a lot more expensive real quick. All right, my friends, it is time to press that big red order button and I'll see you in one to two months when all of our AliExpress tech arrives. (engine rumbling) There we go. So, our items from AliExpress
took a very long time and unlike something like Wish or Temu, they each arrived individually which means that I actually
have no idea which box is which so let's just crack it open. (box contents rattling) This gets shipped all the way from China and it sounds like this? This is? - [Cameraman] What did you order? - So, oh my god, it's a fake. Either this is a knockoff of
a phone that is 11 years old or they remade the box? I'll say I have a real fondness for the Samsung Galaxy S3. The S3 was the very first phone launch I was ever invited to. I'd never actually like properly used a shiny new smartphone really before this. Yo, wait a minute. Is this actually real? The button feels decent. Dude, remember when
phones were this small? This is like a four point,
like three-inch screen or four point, wait.
- Open the back. Open the back. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. Let's see, let's see. That's a real phone. That's a real phone. Hold on. Wait, wait, wait. Okay, I got smoking gun here. Copyright 2015 Samsung Electronics. This is a 2012 phone. Okay, I knew there was
something suspicious about this thing. Okay, we're gonna put this aside. We're gonna let it charge for a minute and we'll come back to that. (plastic rustling) Okay? So again, I have no idea what
any of these things are and... (cameraman chuckling softly) Definitely forgot I ordered this. One moment, please. Behold, my friends. My brand new shirt courtesy of AliExpress. - [Cameraman] What does it say? - This man ate my son. (cameraman laughing) I think my Galaxy S3 might actually be charged up enough now. This screen is not bad. It is not bad. Just the bloops. Just... (bubble blooping) - [Cameraman] Yeah, just
a little (bubble bloops) - So right now this is
running Android 4.3. Uh-oh. Your device has been modified. Software updates are not available. Yo.
- Oh. - I don't like that at all. How has it been modified? Okay, you know what we gotta do. We gotta do a camera test. (bright upbeat music) (alarm beeping) Battery critically low. Okay, we're gonna hurry up real quick. I mean, honestly though,
this is totally fine. This is totally fine. Will I tell you to buy one of these? Absolutely not. But it's a blast from
the past and it's unique. Wait, that's okay. Okay, okay. All right. This, my friends. (plastic rustling) It is incredibly well wrapped. This is the Book 8088. Now, this was actually not
insanely expensive, right? - [Friend] Yeah, it was
like just over 200 bucks. - Okay. All right. Let's see. So this is, I will immediately
say before we even open this, a lot smaller than I thought. I don't know why looking at the photos I assume this is a little bit
more like regular laptop size. I mean that's a hand for scale. Inside we have, oh, it's so cute. The stickers are a little scuff looking. We have a couple of speakers a display which has a little tab on it and a very small keyboard. Like, this is like 75%. You have the... I thought it's got like a new
Windows 10 style key on it. And then we also have a
couple of little doors here. That's our actual CPU which you could literally
just open up and touch. Let's plug this in and
bring our Book 8088 to life. Okay, so I have now gotten
myself into Windows 3.1. Unfortunately without a mouse, I'm a little bit limited in what I can do. Let's play Duck. Can I load Duck? I did it. I'm in "Magic Duck." Ah, no.
- Ooh. - He is shooting up at me. - [Cameraman] It's Grimace. - It's Grimace. Go away, Grimace. I did it! Notepad. There we go. Notepad. That's what I want. So, this keyboard's not good. I don't fully understand why they went with such a tiny keyboard. So, this is really neat. And I think this is a
great example of something that is perfect for AliExpress, right? Because this is not a
mainstream normal item and it does have a little bit
of that DIY sort of quality. I just am sad to say I don't
know if I'm the right person to fully appreciate it. 'Cause it's neat, it's
weird, but I don't really have a lot of things I know how to do with Windows 3.1 or DOS. I'm just proud that I could
get Windows to actually launch to begin with and I got
Notepad up and running. That's about all I can do. Hey, wait. Hand it to me gently so we can
prove that we didn't do this. Hello, my friends and
welcome to the Doubleshock 4. So first, I thought that this
box was massively smashed and I still think it is, But it also looks like maybe, oh no, it's actually
meant to look like this? Like, is that the shape? Is that a rhombus? (friends laughing) So, this is a Doubleshock
4 wireless controller which allows me to charge two
PS4 controller simultaneously. Wait, do I have a controller? Or do I have a dock for this? What? This is, I know this is a controller. Wait, yeah, yeah, yeah. Controller. - [Cameraman] Will we be doubleshocked or? - Oh yeah, that, well, whoa. Look at the faux. Honestly the buttons don't feel bad. The triggers' like, to me this feels like
it's like 85%, right? It's not quite there, but
if this actually works when we plug into a PS4? 11 bucks? Dualshock 4. Yeah, so it shows up. So as far as the PS4 is concerned, this is a proper Dualshock 4. Your mod is gonna vary a little bit on the overall quality of this, but like at first glance,
this is really not bad. What else do we have from AliExpress? Okay, so this is a set of
Lenovo Thinkplus live pods. So, I looked at a similar
version of the Lenovo earbuds off of I think it was Wish
or Temu a little while ago. Yes, Temu. And they were surprisingly
good for really cheap. How much were my Thinkplus live pods? - [Cameraman] $8. - $8?
(cash register dings) I mean these can be pretty bad. They're still gonna be worth eight bucks. These look like they're, at least they're, oh, they're not black? Okay, that's not black. That's green. Okay. (cameraman laughing) Well, that's fine, that's fine. Oh, that's a really interesting design. So, they're kind of shaped
a little bit like AirPods but they have a very small
little rubber tip on them. It's super, super small. I have never seen a pair
of earbuds like that. USB-C charge. Okay, that's a big win
at seven, eight bucks. And you know what I'll say? This case is delightfully tiny. Look how small that is. It's just a little guy. Okay, so pairing was instant. It just, you just take
them out and they work. Bro. Okay. Do they sound amazing? No. Do they sound a little worse than, like regular, normal AirPods? Yes, but they sound a bit worse. They don't sound 96% worse or whatever the actual
price difference is. Do I have, can I have, can someone gimme another thumbs up? I need like three thumbs up. Yeah, there we go.
(air whooshing) Okay, that's ap-ap-ap-ap. Oh, I caught it. I did catch it. The SF 2000 Handheld Game Console. And this is the other one, right? I got two of these. So, this first one was ultra cheap. So, round back we have three AAAs. Aight. You also have your speakers on the back which is obviously best for the audio to come through my hands. You can get some of these
on like Wish and whatnot, but AliExpress is absolutely
loaded with these. And there are dozens and
dozens of different designs, most of which are not very good, but I know that there are
a couple of hidden gems. I dunno if this is gonna be
it, but let's give it a try. Okay, we have 128 games. "Angry Bird", "Super Contra",
"Tiny Toon", "Galaga." So I'm assuming there's a
bunch of NES done games. 'Trojan", "Nuts Milk." They have "Nuts Milk." I'm playing "Nuts Milk." Oh wow, okay. This is actually kinda cool. Very slow but it works. All right, all right, here's the thing. I got the idea with this one. For 10 bucks, I mean
there's a certain level of which I don't think this is, I mean it's 10 bucks,
you can't go that long. But like, aah! Maybe spending a little bit more like our SF 2000 might be a better move. Okay, so going from 10 to 15, we have U S B which is? USB-C. So instead of using AAA batteries, we've actually got a
rechargeable battery here. We have a microSD to USB adapter. So, I'm assuming you use
this to like load up the ROMs but the fact that it comes
with a microSD adapter's cool. And then we've got the
actual console itself. Oh, you know what? It's actually kinda weird. So, it's like very thick on this side. Clearly the battery is
right underneath here. So, it's a little bit
kinda like front heavy, but it's not terrible. Okay, so we've got AB XY, D-pad. We have one little thumb stick which feels actually like
a Switch thumb stick. In fact, I feel that's from a Joy-Con. Like, that feels and looks
exactly like a Joy-Con stick. Let's give it a try. Let's see what we've got. Hmm, we need to plug it in? The red light turns on? Like, it's acting like it
should be doing something. Turn it on, locate the power switch, and slide it to the right. The indicator light will turn
red once the device is on. It's turning red and yet the
screen's not lighting up. - Hmm.
- Uh- oh. Let me try plugging it in. We may actually have an issue here. Oh no, I think it's (mumbles). 'Cause the light's turning on. Like, it's got power. I'm gonna plug it in and let it charge. I think it's dead though. That's so sad 'cause like, if
this thing actually worked? For 15 bucks, this would legitimately be a cool little emulator. I guess that's one of the
downsides when it comes to ordering stuff from
sites such as AliExpress. Good luck trying to get a refund or shipping the product back. I mean you can probably
go through the process, but are you actually gonna get it back? I don't know. All right. Do you have something over there that's gonna cheer me up? - Yeah.
- Because I need a real cheering. - [Cameraman] Will this cheer you up? - I don't know. - [Cameraman] Well you should catch it if- - It's over there now. When we were looking through AliExpress, there are a large number
of intellectual property looseness. So this is, someone made this ROM. A Pokemon black and white "3 Genesis." It's even got a copyright
date from Azure Keys. Wait, so it says 2023, but the card said it was 2020, I thought. Okay, so this is a very new ROM hack. So, basically this is using
"Pokemon Crystal" as the base but it's actually based in Unova which is the fifth
duration of Pokemon games. All right, I'll be Matt. Matt, Marlow was waiting for you until just a few minutes ago. Can I take a Pokemon? Yeah. Can I have a Pokemon, please? Wow. Yeah, they remade the whole region. Look at that. Pokemon League Victory Road. Okay, this is cool. Again, I will restate, ah, I'm a little
uncomfortable with the idea of someone on AliExpress profiting from loading someone's ROM hack onto an actual cartridge and buying it? Like. that to me. Not great. That being said though, it does work and also it is functioning. What? This is very fabricy. What is this? - [Cameraman] It is related. - Is it related? (laughs excitedly) Is this what I think it is? I'm a big fan of Pokemon. To put that out there. And I would like to share the love. So, I have acquired a series of masks to let us all live our best Pokemon life. (friends laughing) I call Bulbasaur, so y'all can
have your pick of these guys. Well, here goes nothing. If you see the three of us
walking down the street, go the other way. - Yeah, you're-
- Don't mess with us. - Jiggly Puff. (laughs) Jiggly puff. - You gotta do the right
actual jiggly Puff like sounds. - Jiggly Puff. Jiggly Puff. - Why can you do that? (friends laughing) - Jiggly Puff. - Can you serenade us as Jiggly Puff? ♪ Jiggly Puff ♪ ♪ Jiggly Puff ♪ - You know what? I'm not gonna sleep anytime soon. I'll be honest with you. - [Redhead] (indistinct) reminders. That's... (everyone laughing) This is also well
packed, which makes sense because it is shipped a very long way. Oh, okay. All right. So we have a power adapter, so we'll put that off to the side. But it actually comes in a carrying case. Inside this box is a
portable Nintendo GameCube. So, AliExpress have a
wide variety of different, handheld actual modified consoles. And this is one of them. This is unbelievable. Oh my, God. - [Cameraman] Whoa, the
craftsmanship on that. - So, lemme get my head around it. So we've got our L and R buttons. We have two shoulder buttons,
they're a little sticky. We have an AUX. We have our barrel plug and our switch. All right, is everyone ready? I just forgot he was Jiggly Puff. - Go and take it off.
- Jiggly Puff. - It's too funny.
- Jiggly Puff. - It's, okay. Okay, here the fan spinning up. Screen's coming to life. Yes, there we go. So, we've got a bunch of GameCube games which look like they're
already loaded up here. So, let's try "Mario Kart", shall we? I will say the screen is not amazing. It's a little bit rough. That being said, I mean whatever, right? So, what we've got here is a jailbroken Wii
motherboard put in here. So, it's actual native hardware
and then it's just connected to a small seven-inch display, right? So as far as this thinks, it's just a Wii sitting on
like a table or something. Oh, wait a minute. I'm just realizing something. It's a Wii, but obviously we've
got the GameCube controller. So, maybe it's a Wii just
because they can cut the board down for a Wii, but all the
games are GameCube games. So it's actually probably
much more meant to be a portable GameCube, even if technically the underlying guts are a Wii. This does not come cheap. I believe this was almost 500 bucks? - [Cameraman] Oh, my friend. It is $550. - Here's the thing, I can't
tell you to go buy one of these. Like, this is a really niche item. But the fact that this
kind of stuff exists on AliExpress is massively cool. You're not gonna find this on most places just 'cause it's so custom
and hand-built and everything. But just the engineering that went into something
like this is incredibly cool. I gotta say, AliExpress
is not for everyone. Temu and Wish have a
little bit more variety. Certainly a lot cheaper when
it comes to a lot of the items and shipping and all that kinda stuff. But if you're looking
for the weird, the wacky, and the truly custom. AliExpress is kinda where it's at. If you too enjoy seeing weird,
wacky, and wild technology, make sure to subscribe to the channel and ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling button. These GameCubes don't buy
themselves, my friends. And what happens if you miss a video? Have you watched all my videos? Have you watched all 2000 of them? - [Friend] Jiggly Puff. (friends laughing)