- Today I'm going to be building a gaming PC from Walmart... Until I discovered this. Uh... Hello. So they're selling a restored Asus ROG STRIX gaming PC. So if I try to build the same system on PCPartPicker with that Ryzen 7, a relatively cheap board, 3060, I'm spending $824. Whereas on Walmart, I'm getting that same system, or basically the same system, for 679 bucks. So this is such a good deal, but actually, I will say, it's not actually sold from Walmart even though I'm buying
this from walmart.com. It actually is sold and shipped by VIP OUTLET. Who the hell are VIP OUTLET? Although, I will say, that name does ring a bell. We ordered a cheap Nintendo Switch on Wish and got a essentially brand new Switch. - Lenovo Legion T7, $1,900. This vendor seems pretty legit. - I don't think this is a gaming PC video anymore. So I wanted to sit down today and do this video telling you all about how I'm gonna build a
gaming PC at Walmart. I don't think there's much point. I feel like I need to know who VIP OUTLET are. VIP OUTLET. Save up to 70% on top brands. So they actually have
their own website here. Free shipping and free returns, great savings on top brands. Apple, Samsung, Sony, Microsoft, Intel- Whoa, whoa, whoa! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! "VIP OUTLET is North America's largest refurbisher of retail returns." So VIP OUTLET literally just "refurbished" returns. So I'm sure they buy pallets of old computers or tech or whatever from Walmart, or from Amazon, or from whoever. They refurbish them, which who knows how much work that is, and they will turn around and they'll sell them back. Even on Walmart's own website. Yo, I'm going down the
rabbit hole right now. Okay! We got ourselves a discounted PS5! They have a digital PS5 for $360. If I'm trying to buy a digital PS5, I'm almost paying $500. Can we find some cheap Xboxes? Ooh! Dude! The Series S for $204. We cracked the code. It's been years. I've been scammed on Wish, on TEMU, on Amazon, Best Buy, GameStop, Walmart, Target. Have I found the promised land? Is it really VIP OUTLET? Dude, if this is legit, these are ridiculous deals. If you go a little bit deeper and you really pay attention to some of the specs, there's some legitimately good stuff in here, man. I'm gonna order a bunch of stuff from VIP OUTLET, and one of two things is gonna happen: I am going to, A, get scammed and lose all my money and receive absolutely nothing, or B, find some of the
most dope deals ever. Or I guess, 1A, I get my items and they're in terrible condition and it wasn't worth it. There's only one way to find out. So we've had a little bit of time to dig into VIP OUTLET, and it is only one small subsidiary of a much larger company known as goTRG. So unlike most platforms that will just set a price and forget it or change it every few days or whatever, goTRG's platform allows the price to constantly change. Part of the reason why on VIP OUTLET, I saw some prices change while I literally had things in the cart. So fingers crossed that when we get all of our stuff, it may actually be
legitimately great deals. Or we get scammed again. But I'm gonna just say great deals. So we have received our item. It's clearly a laptop, but they've put it in some kind of generic black box, which I will say kudos for them to actually use proper
packaging it seems like. Yeah, boy! So this is our Netbook. Oh, my good lord. Yo, it's minty! So the fact that VIP OUTLET, in the year 2023, are selling a Netbook, which is what, 15, 16 years old at this point, is wild to me. - I'm old! - We got ourselves ethernet, VGA, a couple of USB 2.0 ports, microphone, as well as headphone jack. On the other side we have ourselves a Kensington lock, and we have the actual power barrel, as well as a SD and a MMC card slot. Wow. And then we have removable batteries. Which this is a 25 watt hour battery, which is tiny. Even, again, by those standards of the day. Oh my God, I may have just pooped my pants. Just a little bit. Just a little bit. Now, looking at the specs, you're gonna see some things that are not super strong. So we've got ourselves
an Intel Atom processor, this is one of the old school Atoms designed for Windows XP. 'Cause even though a lot of Netbooks were successful in a time period where Windows Vista existed, Vista was so hard to run that Microsoft actually continued to allow manufacturers to use Windows XP for years after Vista had existed. Okay, so we've got a little charging LED. It's coming alive! - It's alive! - Is everyone okay in the room if I cry a little bit? - [Ken] Were you this emotional when your son was born? - No, he's not running Windows XP, so. (everyone laughing) So Netbooks originally were very cheap for back in their day. I believe this was
supposed to be around $400. But even then, like, you know for 2006, 2007, a $400 computer was
incredibly hard to come by in any kinda regular way. Like, these were meant to be really cheap. But we got this essentially brand new
and perfect for $120. Oh, oh, oh. Is it gonna do the thing? Anticipation. (Windows startup sound) (Austin groaning) - Jesus. That- - Whoo-hoo! You children who are watching this video, the fact that you grew up- You grew up on an iPad, didn't you? I'm sorry that you
didn't have a childhood. - Are you talking to Joanna or the camera? - I'm talking to the
camera and the audience. Joanna I'm sure had a wonderful childhood. I would never talk (beep) about that. Zero cap, I am going to use this for at least a while. I will definitely crumble and cave when I realize that I can't do anything online anymore, but like I'm so happy. I'm gonna straight use this thing. Subscribe and ringling the dingling button for Austin's Windows XP Netbook adventure. VIP OUTLET, though, you could not have possibly given me a better item to start
this sort of unboxing out. I am so damn happy right now. We have actually a decent amount of padding here. PS Siete. - [Joanna] Cinco. - The PS Cinco! So, I'm gonna stick to my day job. So this is the PS5 digital edition "God of War: Ragnarok" fully functional Grade-B console. Oh, interesting. Okay. So these are the original accessories. They've been repacked, though. I don't believe that the DualSense comes in this sort of bag. This controller does look minty. It's got a little waft of flatulence. I'm not sure how best to describe it. As our resident flatulence expert comes- - Okay. Okay. - A little off gassy. - No, it's pretty normal. - Oh. Oops. Was that me? (everyone laughing) PS5 "God of War: Ragnarok" and scratch here for the pin. So I'm assuming that it actually has not been redeemed. So as a refresher, this digital PS5 cost just under $370. Although, thanks to the
magic of their algorithm, if you actually wanted to go buy this on VIP OUTLET today, it's actually 350 bucks. So this is one of the superior PS5 1200 models. Check out, we've done a few videos, but especially "The new PS5 is better" is the one I would really recommend because that shows what this new 1200 will do. But I'll say, this is the model that
I would much prefer. The first damage I've seen at all is around the USB port. So someone had some fun
trying to plug that in. But this looks pretty minty on the inside. I'm not seeing really
any dust on the fans, either it was very much refurbished and cleaned up, or more and likely, it was a return that someone got angry with the USB A port trying to plug it in then go, "Mom, I want the disc version. All my friends have 'Fortnite' on disc even though it doesn't even exist! But wah!" That's fairly accurate. I think that's what they sound like. I'm afraid, though, that their algorithm's so smart that as soon as I start talking about this in the video and people start going to their site, their prices are gonna start algorithmically spiking. That's the only downside I see right now. So after a quick setup process, our PS5 is operational. My only real question now, it clearly seems to work fine, is whether or not my "God of War" code actually works. Code for "God of War: Ragnarok." Punch that code in, my friends. Whoever gets it first gets a free code to "Ragnarok" courtesy of VIP OUTLET. So this, if I remember right, is our Xbox Series S. So this is showing as a Grade-A console, fully functional. I wanna say, was this 230 bucks? We paid $204 for an Xbox Series S. I do not know what to do
with myself right now. Can you see the look of genuine happiness and delight on my face? So some of these things have clearly been repacked, but something like this looks like it probably wasn't touched and- Does it have batteries? No batteries inside here, so you know what? That's one thing I'm not seeing which is very minor in the grand scheme of things. Okay, let me just take a look to make sure it's not all scuffed to hell. Nah, dude. Nah, it's a wrap, dude. This is so good! Now this one is Grade-A fully functional. Boom. That is a full Series 2 Elite controller. So this was $95, but as a refresher, we purchased this not from VIP OUTLET direct, but from eBay. So we already have our
paddles on the back. We've got what is almost
certainly brand new. Like there's no way that someone's used this. 'Cause the thing is with this, it's got that sort of really like kind of tacky sort of rubber grips. Use this thing for like a few hours, and it definitely is no longer new. Smells new. Oh, dude, this is mint. Excuse me while we interrupt this regular scheduled programming. Right as I saying all these nice things about this controller, we had a little discovery. So while the controller
does fully function, the right stick will sometimes get stuck. So I think I see why someone returned this, and why I will soon be testing the VIP OUTLET return policy 'cause my super cool great deal of a controller doesn't work that great. So with my Elite Series 2 plugged into my Series S, let's fire it up. Just works. (Austin applauding) Can we get a spotlight, please? There's been a lot of sleepless nights, a lot of tears, a lot of sniffing items that shouldn't have been sniffed, and aural bliss that just wasn't bliss enough. Finally all paid off. Thank you, VIP OUTLET. Thank you. We're supposed to be in the middle of shooting this video. Everyone's so impressed with the deals. What are you looking at right now? - This 512 gig, 4th gen iPad Pro 11 inches M2 is $800. - [Austin] Joanne, instead of running the camera, what are you doing right now? - I'm ordering a PS5. - [Austin] From? - VIP OUTLET. (Austin laughing) - We're not kidding! We finally did something good! It's taken so long! We finally did something good! We're gonna finish this video strong with the item that kicked the entire premise of us doing VIP OUTLET off. So this, my friends, is our Asus gaming PC, which to remind you, is Grade-A fully functional. So we purchased this, again, it came from VIP OUTLET, but technically we purchased it off of walmart.com. And this is outfitted with an RTX 3060, which, mind you, we ordered this before the 4060 came out which is probably slightly pushing some 3060 values down, but not by that much. But this was a little bit less than $680. - [Ken] Yeah, actually, currently it is $642 on the website right now. - This is not a great way to ship a PC. This is the first time where I'm actually not massively excited about VIP OUTLET. The fact that the PC can- I mean, you can see here, even with this closed, has a little too much rattle. Especially 'cause we do have a full dedicated graphics card. I think it's okay, but this is not great. All right, so what do we have here? Uh-oh. Yep. This has gotten scratched. You see there's actually
some fairly deep gouges above the ROG logo right there. Oh yeah. And look, there's a little scuff here. There's like some sticker goo. So the original listing actually said that this had a side panel, but instead it's just got a metal side panel. None of this is anywhere close to a deal breaker considering how much we saved, but compared to every other item that we've seen here, which was damn near flawless, this has a little bit to be desired. It's a smaller low-profile card, which is totally fine. So it actually has like a bracket which is actually connected
to the motherboard and therefore to the back panel and everything, right? So this bracket here means that there's no flex in that card. So we've got a 550 watt 80 plus bronze power supply. You can see manufacture
date is July of 2021. So this is a little
bit of an older system. You know, it's basically
been sitting around for I mean essentially two years now at this point. Ooh, okay. - [Ken] There's RGB in it? - [Austin] There is RGB, which is weird, 'cause, again, there's no window but you've got a little strip there. Oh yeah, okay. It works. Well, that was anti-climactic. Clearly not every single thing you get from VIP OUTLET is going to be minty and amazingly priced, but this is still amazingly priced. I would consider swapping out the case, especially because this
one is slightly scuffed. But other than that, this thing gets a big thumbs up. And I gotta say, VIP OUTLET, man.