In late February 2024, TSMC held a 
ceremony in Japan celebrating the launch   of its joint venture, Japan Advanced 
Semiconductor Manufacturing or JASM. Founder Morris Chang gave a pleasant 
speech. And the Japanese government   officially announced their 
support for a second phase. There are also swirling rumors of 
an even more advanced third phase. Meanwhile, the first phase of TSMC 
Arizona churns on. The size of its   second phase remains subject to the size 
of the CHIPS Act subsidies allocated to it. Chips from that second phase 
are not expected until 2028,   which I continue to deny is a real 
year and not just 4 years away. JASM was announced in Nov 2021, over 
a year after TSMC announced Arizona   back in May 2020. So in Japan, TSMC went from 
announcement to fab start in just 20 months. What is going on here? Why is 
TSMC doing better in Japan than   in Arizona? In this video, we 
are diving into the question. ## Beginnings TSMC’s official comment is that the two builds 
are inherently incomparable. In other words,   "stop talking about us and let us work". They’re right. And I’m not trying to 
say that one culture or country is   better than the other. Please keep that in mind. First, we need to appreciate the enormity 
of the task at hand. A semiconductor   fabrication facility, or fab, is the ultimate 
expression of haste and unforgiving precision. Semiconductors are produced in 
dies, embedded within wafers,   over the span of many months, using 
a sequence called the process flow. The process flow is made up of hundreds 
of process steps. Each step involves one   of the major semiconductor functions - 
oxidation, deposition, photolithography,   etch, ion implantation, or metallization. 
Or cleaning. Never forget cleaning. To maximize the efficiency of the process flow,   fabs are organized into bays - rooms filled 
with the equipment for completing a process   step. This minimizes how far a work-in-progress 
wafer travels as it goes between each step. Altogether, the flow could involve up to 
500 tools. They all go into a cleanroom,   a room where no particles of 
a certain size can be allowed. Around the world, it takes on average about 1.9   years to finish a fab from construction to 
production start. TSMC tries to beat that. ## Incentives I'm not a fan of social media in general and 
I try not to go there. T’is a silly place. But I have seen Reddit comments claiming 
that TSMC is slow-walking the Arizona build   because it wants to preserve Taiwan's "Silicon 
Shield" and keep the "best nodes" in Taiwan. The argument that TSMC is hobbling itself to play   some geopolitical game is ridiculous. 
Just look at the economic incentives. A single fab over all of its phases might 
cost several tens of billions of capital   investment. The company has publicly pledged 
$40 billion into the two Arizona phases. The fab tools rapidly depreciate and are 
only economically viable when they are   being used virtually 100% of the time. 
So the company is burning money. And   that is before you count lost revenue 
from not selling chips to customers. TSMC is a company owned by shareholders. They are 
highly economically incentivized to get those fabs   in Arizona up and running. Please don’t distribute 
these unimaginative conspiracy theories. ## Location
First things first, the obvious stuff. Taiwan and Japan are very close 
to one another geographically.   Kumamoto is on the Japanese island of 
Kyushu an hour or two away on a plane. Obviously it is a whole lot better 
compared to an 12-14 hour flight to   the United States. The distance delays 
responses to urgent questions. It means   suppliers stretching themselves much further 
than they have ever done before. And so on. But there’s nothing you can do about 
geographical distance. And there are   multiple cases when Asian companies transplant 
their culture across the Pacific Ocean with   little loss of efficiency. Most famously, the 
Japanese car companies like Toyota and Honda. Semiconductor companies have also proved 
it possible to build advanced fabs far   from their home base. Intel famously 
has done with Ireland and Israel,   though the circumstances are not exactly 
the same. There’s something else involved. ## Nodes JASM runs a set of less 
sophisticated processes - a   28/22 nanometer technology as well 
as a 16/12 nanometer FinFET node. Outgoing TSMC Chairman Mark Liu said 
that the second Japan fab will use N6,   an 7-nanometer class process node. Arizona on the other hand 
was a N5 fab at the start,   N5 corresponding to a 5-nanometer node. 
It was later upgraded to N4 technology. This is where I am legally obligated to 
remind you that the 5-nanometer, 4-nanometer,   3-nanometer terminologies are marketing terms 
chosen to indicate performance improvement. They are not indicative of the chip's 
physical parameters. Such parameters   wouldn't tell you anything 
about final performance anyway. I feel like I shouldn't need to say 
this but I keep reading Hacker News   comments asking what happens after 1 
nanometer. So I will keep saying it. Anyway, my point here is that, yes, TSMC Arizona 
runs a more sophisticated node at a smaller   volume. But that is the whole issue. You start 
crawling and end running. TSMC is a conservative   company. They would prefer to start with an easier 
node and work their way up the technology chain. With Japan, they are starting at N28,   a common planar node albeit with some tweaks 
to make it more suitable for image sensors. They then added FinFET with 
N16 when Denso joined in. And now with Toyota on the Fun Bus,   they are going up to a semi-leading 
edge node with N6 with this second fab. And whenever the announcement comes out,   that rumored third fab is likely going 
to roll out an N4 node or better. In the US, TSMC going straight to N4 
greatly ratcheted up the difficulty.   N4 has more process steps than N28 and the 
tolerances are also way less forgiving. TSMC's former General Counsel 
Richard Thurston touched on this in an interview > American paranoia has caused an unusual focus 
on the most advanced process technologies rather   than equally important legacy (something 
less than most advanced) technologies. > Washington, DC, became overly 
focused on pushing TSMC to build   its most advanced processes and linked 
large subsidies to that process node ... I understand the political pressure that these   lawmakers were under to "solve" 
the chip shortage problem ... But I do want to point out that 
many of the missing chips during   that time were not made by leading-edge N4 nodes. ## Joint Venture Partners One of the key things about JASM 
is that it is a joint venture. TSMC's other partners in the venture - Sony, 
auto-parts maker Denso, and the carmaker Toyota   - don't hold much share in JASM. Right now, TSMC 
holds 86.5%; Sony, 6%; Denso, 5.5%; and Toyota 2%. At first glance it might not seem like much, 
but the partners’ influences extend far beyond   their shareholding. First, these three are 
not only investors, but also customers. They guarantee demand and volume, 
which is a huge deal in an industry   where volumes mean so much. It allows you 
to raise yields and sell a lot of chips. Second, suppliers. In a prior video,   I covered NUMMI, the Toyota-GM 
joint venture from back in 1983. One of the major reasons why 
Toyota wanted to do the joint   venture was because General Motors promised 
to introduce its US-based suppliers to them. Sony is likely doing the same, introducing TSMC 
to its supplier network in Japan. At the start,   many Taiwan suppliers still have 
to come over - JASM is only 25%   locally sourced at the start - but 
the goal is to raise that over time. And third. A Bloomberg News story points to the 
critical role that Sony played in facilitating   TSMC's entrance into the local community 
at Kumamoto. They helped acquire the land,   and handle the fab's impact on 
the local area's water supplies. In Arizona, TSMC is working alone 
with no local partner to help show   them the ropes or smooth over misunderstandings. It is a monumental management and 
logistical challenge for TSMC and   especially its Taiwan-based suppliers to come 
to the United States. It is no surprise to   me that some of the local tensions and reports 
of unsafe behavior come at the supplier level. One Guardian story from August 2023 
mentioned two such suppliers by name:   United Integrated Services - 
Taiwan's leading cleanroom builder,   and Marketech International Corp, 
a building maintenance provider. So why didn't TSMC set up Arizona with a local 
partner? One reason I think is that the best   options would be something like GlobalFoundries 
or Intel. Both are fierce competitors. Another guess why is because the whole idea of a 
joint venture came from the Japanese government,   who insisted at the start that Sony should be 
involved. They basically played match-maker. TSMC generally doesn't do joint ventures but this 
one has worked. The best indication of such is   that they using it again with their Germany 
fab in 2027. TSMC Dresden will boast Bosch,   Infineon and NXP as both customers/partners 
in getting this monumental fab off the ground. Maybe in the end, TSMC Arizona gets a joint 
venture partner to help straighten things   out. Morris Chang and current CEO CC Wei used 
to work at Texas Instruments. Why not them? ## Subsidies TSMC - along with Intel and Samsung - would not   have started a build in the US or 
Japan without financial subsidies. Subsidies in the semiconductor industry are 
expected. Everyone is doing it, including China -   which is pumping in enough money to build a Great 
Pyramid over there. So let us set that aside. One of the major things about the 
CHIPS Act office versus the Japanese   government has been the speed with 
which the subsidies have come out. Japan subsidized the first Kumamoto build 
with $3.5 billion, about 40% of the fab's   total cost. The amount was announced in June 
2022 - just a few months after construction   began in April 2022 - with payments 
starting to be disbursed at 2022 end. As of this writing, the CHIPS Act office has yet 
to announce the larger subsidy amounts for TSMC,   Intel, or all the others. It probably will 
be out by the time you watch this video.   But the act was signed in August 
2022. Why has it taken so long? It probably has to do with the extensive 
vetting and planning by the CHIPS Act office.   The office employs over 130 people according to 
Bloomberg. You got to staff up and prepare things. Free money always comes with strings. 
But the strings that the Japanese   government attached to their money are 
looser than those attached by CHIPS. Nikkei reported that Japan's subsidy rules 
included a ten-year commitment, a requirement to   increase output during shortages, safeguards for 
key technology, and continued investment in the   factory. Note how localized these conditions are. 
They focus very much only on the Japanese fabs. The CHIPS Act on the other hand has 
instituted wide-ranging “guardrails”   that are understandable. For instance, the 
expansion guardrails in China and Russia. Understandable, like I said,   but require review and more time to bring 
into compliance - especially for TSMC,   which owns a few fabs on the mainland. Nobody 
wants the Government to have to do a clawback. ## Labor Kumamoto used to be one of Japan's 
major semiconductor manufacturing   centers. But it has since fallen on harder times. The minimum wage in Kumamoto ranks as some of the   lowest in Japan. 40% of its high school 
graduates leave to find work elsewhere. TSMC was able to offer very competitive wages 
and build the fab faster. And yes this is   thanks in part thanks to a weaker Japanese 
yen. Bloomberg quoted a senior director   in Japan saying, "A job that normally earns 
¥30,000 was paid ¥50,000 at the TSMC site." The same goes for engineers. The 
first Kumamoto fab is estimated   to employ about 1,500 people. TSMC's 
engineer job adverts in Japan offer   salaries that are a third higher than 
what the market previously could offer.   Local companies are already complaining 
about TSMC vacuuming up their workers. This obviously is a big difference from the United   States. Especially after many years of fab 
build inactivity, it is a much harder time   recruiting semiconductor manufacturing 
workers at the prices they want to pay. Even Intel in Ohio is suffering a shortage,   necessitating over 40% of their workers 
to be brought in from out-of-state. Taiwan and Japan also share similarities in 
terms of work cultures. Both emphasize long   tenures at their employers. One downside of this 
is that it inculcates inefficient work practices,   but on the other hand it also gives workers the 
time to develop skills and mastery in their area. In Arizona, workers are a bit 
more fluid. TSMC asks that new   workers do a training program in 
Taiwan for an extended period of   time. I have heard that the dropout 
rate in that program is quite high. Nearby Intel has offered a compelling 
alternative for workers hopping over   to higher wages and supposedly 
better working conditions. TSMC   is going to be a recruiting bonanza 
for them until adjustments are made. And there are the cultural clashes between 
the Asian and American workers. I grew up with   Asian parents and relatives. I love them, but 
their style is definitely an acquired taste. I   don't think Americans appreciate repeatedly 
being called "lazy". That should change. One notable situation comes to mind, involving the 
local unions. Morris Chang is very clearly not a   fan of unions. And the company he founded 
has gone a long way to avoid having them. When Chairman Mark Liu made an off-hand 
comment at the earnings conference about   bringing a specialized team of Taiwanese 
workers to the fab to install the equipment,   several Arizona unions publicly called 
out the company for misrepresentation   and sought to block visas for those workers. One union leader published an op-ed 
accusing TSMC of trying to replace   Americans with "cheaper Taiwanese", 
endangering jobs and all that. This clearly caught the company off-guard,   and I think it's one of those situations 
where a local partner on the ground could   have really helped smooth things over. The 
local government had to take up the slack. It’s all just growing pains. And I do think 
TSMC and the labor force will eventually get   things fixed to everyone’s satisfaction. 
For instance in December 2023 we got news   of a deal between them and the unions. It all 
just won’t happen as quickly as first thought. ## Regulation Regulations are a major issue to 
making sure the build happens on time. Take the example of when the Kaohsiung city 
government in Taiwan was courting TSMC to   bring a fab to the city. One of the major issues 
was handling water supply for the thirsty fabs. The city's economic bureau set up a task 
force to coordinate with the company and   started work on a new reclaimed 
water factory and pipelines for   it. Notably, they cleared out all of the 
administrative procedures in a single day. The United States is one of the 
slowest places in the world to   build a fab. Americans have just not 
built enough of them. Fab builds have   more than halved since the 1990s from 
55 to 22, and none of those are large. These longer times are for several reasons. 
Material shortages, labor shortages,   and transportation issues seem to be some of 
the largest contributors to these problems. But environmental permits like those 
for pollutants, discharged materials,   asbestos, waste transport, stormwater 
pollution prevention, and more are also   a source of delays. Different agencies handle 
this, making coordination and speed hard. And that's just the federal requirements. Though 
local requirements tend to go faster depending   on the location in question. I wouldn't 
try to build a fab in San Francisco for   instance. Imagine how many residents' 
views of the Bay would be obscured. These regulations exist for a 
reason. Semiconductor critical   raw materials are often toxic, dangerous, or 
carbon-intensive. They aren't made in the US,   and need to be transported. The 
government will need to balance   between its priorities for national 
security and environmental protection. ## Conclusion I want to close with a few 
comments on the CHIPS Act. In the end, I believe the 2022 CHIPS Act will 
be seen as a public success, but it will be a   qualified one. Furthermore, I think TSMC will 
play an only secondary role in that success. It is an election year in the 
US, and Commerce Secretary Gina   Raimondo is setting out the key 
public talking points. Like for   instance moving American share of leading 
edge digital logic chips from 0% to 20%. I question the 0% number, by the way. What do 
you define as leading edge? If you consider it   to be a node at least three generations behind 
the leader, America's share of total capacity   is probably more like 20-25%. Oh and what 
about memory and trailing edge? Anyway ... Much of that 20% would probably come from 
Intel, which to me looks more and more   like the American national champion. Once 
18A comes online at some large capacity,   it will be a technological leader 
and we can declare victory. As for TSMC Arizona, that fab will 
eventually make chips. Local news   just reported that they added their last steel 
beam in February 2024. But as Mark Liu said,   the future depends on the size of the subsidy. If TSMC wants 40% support like with 
Japan on a $40 billion project,   that's $16 billion in subsidies. Will 
the administration want the PR optics   of giving $16 billion of taxpayer money 
to a foreign company in an election year? Maybe. Maybe not. I should add that that 
$16 billion doesn't have to come in the   form of cash subsidy. The investment tax 
credits will do some heavy lifting too. So unless something changes, then like with 
TSMC Washington/WaferTech many years before,   that will largely be the end of it. No Phase 3. Instead, TSMC will expand into Japan. 
And I believe that will largely settle   people's pearl clutching about Taiwanese 
chips. And we can go on with our lives.