- Hey guys, this is Austin. OnePlus has been making
some of my favorite phones for quite awhile. Traditionally, you get a great combination of good specs and flagship level features, at a price that can be hundreds of dollars less than the competition. That is where the OnePlus 6T comes in. It's definitely a good phone, but it does not revolutionize the formula. If you're familiar with the OnePlus 6, then you know the basics of the 6T. Inside you'll find that
same Snapdragon 845, which has been in almost every
major flagship of this year, and that is paired with either six or eight gigs of ram, and
128 or 256 gigs of storage. This is as good as it gets right now, but it is no longer a
unique selling point. Previously, OnePlus's were
some of the cheapest phones with the high end specs, such
as the Snapdragon 835 or 845, but nowadays you can
pick up a Pocophone F1 that is going to be several
hundred dollars cheaper than even the OnePlus and
it has that same spec. It's good, it's great to
have in a phone like this, but it is no longer some
huge revolutionary feature. It's just kind of what
everyone expects at this point. One of the most noticeable
changes is the notch. It is significantly smaller than not only pretty much
anything else out right now, but it is right alongside
the Essential Phone, which over a year later actually still has one of the smallest notches
that we've ever seen. It we take a quick trip from garbage town up the road to notch city, we'll find an interesting
evolution of OnePlus phones over the last couple of years. So the OnePlus 5 was the last phone with the full size bezels, which were significantly
shrunk down on the OnePlus 5T. Come to the OnePlus 6 and
the notch is in full effect, which thankfully is a lot
smaller on the OnePlus 6T. It's also a very slightly larger display at 6.4 inches as opposed to 6.3. And that applies to the entire OnePlus 6T. It's a little bit thicker, it's a little bit taller,
and it's a little bit wider, and it is definitely on the
larger side of smart phones. The display itself is a nice looking OLED, in fact not only is it fairly bright, but it is one of the most
accurate OLED panels we've tried, right up there with the iPhone XS. You'll also find something pretty rare, an in-display fingerprint sensor. Now gone are the days of
having a fingerprint sensor on the back or on the home button. Instead, it's actually inside the glass. It properly works, too. So this little green icon right here, if I put my thumb on it, it will immediately scan my fingerprint. Now to be fair, this
is not a perfect setup. It does seems to be a little bit slower than a traditional fingerprint sensor. And I did notice that it
is a little bit more prone to being slowed down or tripped up, if you have any kind of
dirt or dust on the screen. But generally speaking it does work, and it works well. There is a face unlock option, but it lacks something more sophisticated like the IR cameras on the iPhone, as well as the OPPO Find X. This will stabilize on the
just the front facing camera. It's quick, and it's reasonably accurate, but it is nowhere near secure. To me, it's just using
that fingerprint sensor. Inside you will find an upgraded battery. Before we had a 3300 milliamp-hour cell, whereas this year we've gone
up to 3700 milliamp-hours. Now I haven't spent enough time to really give it a full run through, but based on at least early impressions, it is pretty easy to make it through a full day of use with a 6T. And surprisingly, OnePlus is stocked with their very stock
looking OxygenOS software, which is based on the latest
version of Android 9 Pie. Now the good thing is you have a lot of nice,
small customizations that doesn't totally overhaul the look. For example, with the alert
slider we all know and love is still here to allow you
to easily mute the phone. I really don't understand why
lots and lots of other people haven't just stolen this. It's just super useful. What you won't find is a
significantly improved camera. Now it is slightly better, so it's mostly in the processing
and the software side, specifically with portrait mode, it's a little bit better at cutting things out of the background. And there is a improved night shot mode, which will get you a
little bit of a better low light performance. But generally speaking, this is decent but nowhere near as good as the Pixels and the
Galaxies of the world. Hey guys, this is the story behind the internet myth Polybius, The speaker sounds decent, but importantly, it's just
that, a single speaker. It's 2018, and basically
all other flagships have switched over to a stereo setup, which not only sounds a lot better, but importantly isn't easily covered. I mean all you have to do is just put a single
finger over the speaker, and it totally kills the volume. Personally I wouldn't mind a bigger notch if it meant that I did
get those stereo speakers. Audio quality on a phone
is really important to me. Speaking of, the OnePlus 6T finally drops the headphone jack. Now this isn't exactly a huge surprise, but it is a downgrade over the OnePlus 6. To be fair, you do get a USB-C
headphone dongle on the box, and the battery is slightly
larger because of this, but rest in peace, sweet jack. We also still don't have any
official water resistance. Now you would think that by
removing the headphone jack it would make it a little bit easier to water-seal this guy up, but nope, it's still completely not okay to put this near even
a single drop of water, or else your warranty stickers
will go screaming in agony. Speaking of, while we do
still have a glass back, the 6T still completely omits
any kind of wireless charging. This is a really weird choice. Usually when you go from metal to glass, one of the main reasons
is to get you a little bit of an easier target for stuff like say, I don't know, wireless charging, something again is on
almost all 2018 flagships, and yet it is nowhere to
be found on the OnePlus 6T. The OnePlus 6T is a terrific phone, and yet it's not really much of an upgrade over the OnePlus 6. In a world where the Google
Pixel 3 is a true flagship, it's really hard to call
this a flagship killer. It's a great mid-range phone, but that's okay. (smooth music)