I was really keen to share with Numberphile 
viewers a discovery that I made which I was really   surprised by. I'm sure everyone out there has 
grown up on these numbers, the Fibonacci numbers:   1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13- you know 
what more can there be to say about these numbers?   They appear all over nature, cut an apple open - 
a five-pointed star, Fibonacci number; number of   petals on a flower. And you know Fibonacci 
made them famous by writing about their    occurrence in nature. But it turns out they really 
shouldn't be called the Fibonacci numbers because   Fibonacci was not the first to discover these 
numbers. In fact they were first discovered   not by mathematicians or scientists at all but by 
musicians and poets in India. So how did poets and   musicians discover these numbers? A tabla player 
playing on a drum was quite interested to make as   many complex rhythms as possible. What are the sort 
of rhythms you can make out of say a long beat or   a short beat? Let's just take rhythm of length 
four and I could do four short beats, I could go:   Or I could do two long beats, so a long beat 
is twice a short beat. So it could just go:   and that fits in our kind of length four. But 
I can mix those up; so I could do short short long,   short long short, or long short short. Now if you 
explore that that's all you can do with uh kind   of a length four rhythm with long and short 
beats - and they turn out to be five of those   if you've counted them. So five rhythms 
you can make with these long and short beats. So   a tabla player would like to really mix this 
up and might be interested, okay, with a length   16 rhythm what- how many different rhythms can 
I make with long and short beats? And as they   started to count the number of different rhythms 
as the rhythm gets longer they discovered that   it was these Fibonacci numbers that counted them. 
So if I have a rhythm of length five you'll find   that there are eight different rhythms I can 
make starting with five short beats or or long   long short; the different combinations are eight. 
And actually you can really see why the Fibonacci   rule - remember what it is, add the two previous 
numbers to get the next number in the sequence - why this helps you to generate the new rhythms. 
Because suppose I want to generate those rhythms   of length five; well I could take the rhythms 
of length four and add a short beat to those.   Or I could shake the rhythms of length 3 and 
add a long beat to those, that will be a rhythm   now of length five. The number of combinations 
to make rhythms of length five are the ones of   length four with the short beat on or the ones 
with length three with a long beat on; so that's   why adding the two previous number of rhythms 
together gives you the next one in the sequence.  So these were discovered by these musicians, poets also interested 
in uh lines of poetry with long and short beats,   and so these numbers were actually already 
being talked about in India several hundred   years before Fibonacci came across them. Indeed, 
there's an Indian poet Hemachandra who talks   about these numbers, so frankly they really 
should be called the Hemachandra numbers and   not the Fibonacci numbers at all.
- (Brady: Did Fibonacci give a nod to the Indians or not?)
- I don't think   actually Fibonacci would necessarily been aware of 
the fact that these numbers were in in rhythms.   I'm sure he would have talked about it had he 
realized that. Fibonacci actually of course   learned about a lot of the ideas of India and the 
Arabs because he spent time in Northern Africa;  that's why he wrote Liber Abaci, he discovered 
these extraordinary ideas that were bubbling   up the Arab world and he brought them to Europe 
with that first book. He could have been exposed   to them but I'm sure he would have talked about 
that. There's another interesting way actually   to think about that long and short beats which 
is kind of a practical challenge you can try at   home actually which is, you know, if you've got a 
set of stairs in yours- in your house um how many   different ways are there to climb to the top of 
the stairs if you take one step or two steps at a   time? So you could do each one step individually 
or you could do it in two steps and maybe you   have to add another one and if you've got an odd 
number of stairs, but it's the same challenge. The   number of different ways to get from the bottom 
of the stairs to the top, if you're either taking   one or two steps at a time, is exactly the same 
challenge of the long and short beats rhythms. Actually the Fibonacci numbers started
from poetry and music and actually in the modern   age they've actually had a kind of resurgence in 
poetry because there's a new poetic form which   uses the Fibonacci numbers for its structure. 
And it's something called a fib - so in England   a fib is uh a lie but in this case it's 
a sort of poetry. And this poet Gregory Pincus   came up with this idea of actually why don't we 
use the Fibonacci numbers to to kind of give a   structure for a poem? So his idea was each line 
of the poem should have the number of syllables   of that Fibonacci number, so it should start 
one syllable, one syllable, two syllables, three   syllables, five, eight and so on. And he felt just in 
the same way as Fibonacci discovered there was a   sense of growth that connects these numbers that 
when you read a poem with these Fibonacci rhythms   there's a kind of naturalness to it. And so here 
was Gregory Pincus' first fib; and you can   probably hear just kind of the nice way the Fibonacci 
helped build up a sort of uh a poetic structure.   One small precise poetic spiraling mixture math 
plus poetry tree yields the fib. Rather beautiful.   So I thought actually I would offer my Twitter 
followers a challenge, because I thought it's   kind of a nice small type form - Twitter, ferfect 
place uh to to write your own fib. And so I offered   this challenge out to my my followers and I got 
a wonderful load of fibs back but I've chosen my   favourite for you because I think it's it's 
rather beautiful. It's by- it was by @benbush:   Tweet, Tweet, Marcus, here's my fib, an unwise 
ad-lib, wait fib on Twitter I'm confused, how   many of my 140 have I used. It's pretty cool and 
you might also notice 140 so it was uh pre   uh the move to 280 which actually probably has the 
same number of syllables- it still will it   might still work. But I think it's rather nice 
because he's gone 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, he actually got to 13 in his fib which is pretty 
impressive. After that it starts to not sound like   poetry and sounds more like uh sort of prose 
so that's the way I think you've got to stop.   (All right Marcus, can I can I throw the same 
challenge to the YouTube commenters on this video?) I think I'd love to see uh uh all 
the the fibs that are going to appear at   the bottom of this little Numberphile video. 
Well watched what next? Links to click? Well we   have plenty. See the video description for books 
by Marcus and other stuff that you should see. Here we see sort of symmetry, playing 
the two together to generate music... His artistry really is being able to write 
a piece of music then apply a little bit   of mathematics to it to create something 
that together makes something beautifully   harmonic and complex. 
- (Professor, not being a 
musician I have no clue by looking at that...)