It's a little bit like Pascal's triangle or it's 
in that kind of similar vein where we're going to   have these rows of numbers and each row depends 
on what happened in the previous. In the first   row I just write 1, 1. Then for the next row 
every time an adjacent pair of numbers adds up   to 2 I'm going to insert that in between them. 
So I'm going to take a 2 and kind of put it in   between those two 1s. And so for the third 
row every time two numbers add up to 3 and   they're next to each other I'll insert that 3. 
So this will look like 1; because 1 plus 2 is 3 I insert a 3 in there. I keep that 2, 2 plus 1 
is 3 so I insert a 3 in there and then I keep   that 1. So each one it has all of the numbers 
from the previous sequence we're just inserting   n for the nth row at various points. So 
for the next one I insert a 4 whenever   adjacent numbers add to 4; so I'll have 1, 
insert the 4 before the 3 and we'll kind of   go through the only other spot to insert 
is between that other 3. So I have the 2,  I have the 3, insert a 4, and then 1. I'll keep 
going for a couple more rows just to see it. Between the 1 and the 4 I'm going to have to 
insert a 5, but also between the 2s and the   3s I'm going to have to insert a 5. So I'll 
take 1, 5, and then 4, 3, 5; keep that 2,   another 5; 3, 4 insert my last 5 and then a 1. 
For good measure I'll just do one more. Between   the 1 and the 5 that adds up to 6, uh none 
of the next adjacent ones seem to add up to 6   so the only other one I have to add is at the end. 
So this grows by a smaller amount. Now someone   comes along and they're just asking questions 
about this, what are the patterns I can observe   in this Pascal-esque pyramid; and if they just 
count how many elements are there in each row   they'd say this one has two numbers in its row, 
this one has three numbers, this one here has   five numbers, seven, eleven, thirteen. And so you're 
compelled to ask, okay how- is this-
- (Brady: Prime numbers!) Yeah and, you know, I could say is there any reason that 
we should expect prime numbers from this? You know   is- this is just a completely random tower, you know 
is there any reason we might expect prime numbers?   And I could say, actually this isn't as random a 
tower as you might think, it's related to these   things called Farey sequences, where if I want to 
write out what are all of the rational numbers   where the biggest possible denominator is 1 that 
sits somewhere in the interval from 0 to 1 there's   really only two rational numbers available - I can 
have 0 which I could write a 0 over 1 or   1, which is 1 over 1. And if I say, okay what are 
all the rational numbers in that interval? You know,   kind of the unit interval from 0 to 1 with 
a denominator that is at most 2. And you can say,   well I've got those those two that I already had, 
but now could also include 1/2 into those. And   so you know kind of might mark 1/2. And what if 
we allow the denominator to get as big as 3?   And he said, well in that case I can have all of 
the ones that I previously had but also 1/3 is available, and 1/2, and also 2/3 is 
available. And I'm writing them in the order that   they would show up on the number line so I'm kind 
of sorting them from least to biggest. You can show   actually that this sequence here of this Farey 
sequence, all of the rational numbers maximized by   a certain denominator, is exactly the same as what 
we were doing up here. All of the denominators on   the bottom correspond to one of the rows up here. 
And there's a kind of cute reason for it, but when   you have a sequence of three different rational 
numbers in this Farey sequence- so I'll just do one   more row to kind of see like where does 1/4
or the fourths fit in. We've got 0 over 1,  1/4 is going to fit in here between that and 1/3
then we've got 1/2, then 1/3 and then   3/4 comes up there, and then 1. If we 
just look at three adjacent elements - so maybe a   take these here. Note if I add up the numerators 
of the two on the outside, and then if I add up the   denominators also, so I add up the 2 and the 4, 
2 + 4 and I make a fraction out of those,   in this case that's the same as 4/6 which is the 
same as 2/3. This way of combining rational   numbers where I add the numerators and add the 
denominator; it has a fancy name, it's called the   mediant. It's kind of like what a- what someone who 
hasn't yet learned about fractions might think you   do when you're supposed to add two fractions. It's 
not a wholly useless operation, it always gives   you something that's between those two. And in 
fact in these Farey sequences it'll always be   the case that the mediant of two that are offset 
gives you the one that sits in between. You can   kind of see the connection between this and the 
pyramid because you need the denominators to add   up so every time you're squishing in, you say hey 
I'm going to introduce the possibility that 5 is a   denominator. The only way that that could happen 
is if it's two neighbors had denominators that   added up to 5. So you look in the previous 
sequence, that corresponds to all the previous   rational numbers, and you say, hey when are those 
two denominators going to add up to 5? That's   where I need to insert one. But it looks so much 
pure and pristine when we have this pyramid and   I don't mention that it's related to rational 
numbers. So you might say, oh it's kind of a   natural object and if you think hard about when 
do certain rational numbers come up? The amount   that you're adding has a lot to do with the number 
of factors of that. For example, this next time when   I'm adding 1/5, I actually know we're going 
to get a lot more numbers because 5- we have to   add 1/5, 2/5, 3/5, 4/5 -  
none of those reduce. Whereas when I add 6 it's   not that we're going to add 1/6, 2/6/ 3/6, 4/6 because 2/6 is already accounted   for, 3/6 is always accounted for. So there's 
some you know loose connection to the idea of   how divisible is the next number and things like that. 
- (Priminess is in there.)
- Priminess is in there right? So we might expect. (So the million dollar question - does 
this thing keep spitting out prime numbers?) Sadly, um, the pattern actually breaks. And there's a 
there's a little hint to when it breaks too um so   I'll do a couple more rows. We should expect that 
we need to insert numbers corresponding to 1/7, 2/7,   3/7, 4/7 - all of these because 
none of these fractions reduce I'm expecting. (So you're using what we learned there to help guide you here now.)
- I know that I'm going to be   inserting six different 7ths basically. And 
so this is now interesting, we count how many   are there, we've got- oh we should know it's 
going to be 13 plus 6. So on the one   hand the pattern continues, but on the other hand 
uh you know there's a little chink in the armor   because 17 is sitting here just kind of wondering 
why it's been left out of the club. 
- (Yeah this is a-)   (this is a worrying sign.)
- It's a worrying sign but 
it does actually continue. The faster way to do   this - rather than inserting them all like this -
I can now ask, you know, how many 8ths are we   going to be adding? How many reduced fractions are 
there with an 8? And the reduced fractions with   8 are basically just all the odd numbers. So 
there's four that I should be adding so I kind   of know that the next one is going to get me to 
23 regardless of how many I insert in there. And   then 9, similar. So 1/9, 2/9, 3/9 is not reduced 
but 4/9, 5/9. 6/9 is reduced so I won't include   it. 7/9 and 8/9. People who are 
curious, the- the number that we're counting here,   all of the basically numerators that don't share 
any divisors with a denominator would be called   the Euler totient function of your number 9. 
And that's basically counting how many numbers   are there like this, numbers less than 9 that 
don't share any factors with it. So here we know   that we would be adding 6 and that gets us to 
29, which again feels pretty good, um and then in   terms of 10; you know the Euler totient function of 
10 saying, hey how many numbers up to 10 uh don't   share any factors with it? It's actually only four,
you can see this with 1/10, 2/10 isn't   good, 3/10 is good, 4/10 no good, 
5/10 no good, 6/10 no good. All of   those reduce. 7/10 and 9/10. These- I 
mean you can kind of know this because these are   the last digits you would expect of prime numbers, 
all the other- there's only four digits available.   So if we add 4 to this that's when- that's when it properly breaks.
- (It broke. It properly broke.)   Properly broke. And in this case uh, you know 
in our previous example we could do a little   bit of analysis to say, oh well you know it was 
necessarily indivisible by 2, 3 and 5 so there's   a good reason. As far as I can tell this is just a 
meaningless coincidence, um this is a good example   of uh Richard Guy's strong law of small numbers 
because as we go through these first few numbers   we can have a little bit of a sense that there's 
a likelihood they'd coincide with primes. Because   it starts with 2, and then you add 1 to it, and then 
thereafter you're always adding an even number so   you're either- you know, typically adding a 2 or 
a 4 or maybe a 6 in there. And so you're getting   things that are odd. And so if you think of it as 
a probabilistic process you kind of guaranteed not   to hit any even numbers so that gives you a little 
something and when the numbers are so small; if   you're an odd number, you know, it's not guaranteed  
that you're prime but it's more likely. It's   like 50% more likely you will be. 
- (So we're playing 
around in this part of the number line where the)  (primes are still pretty dense?)
- Exactly yeah. And so 
you're likely to see these sorts of patterns that   um just they just don't hold that long. There's 
plenty of things like this actually where I think   when we do pencil and paper intuition building, 
it's common to just deal with smaller numbers,   and you know the thing that someone might want to 
take away is understand: is there a way that small   numbers are not representative of the larger 
numbers? And for instance, how many primes are   there between 0 and 100? It's about 25% of them. 
That's a very atypical part of the number line,   right, because you go out to any other part and uh 
it's many fewer that are there.
- (It's like if you)  (watch Hollywood movies you would think everyone 
on Earth is really good looking.)
- Exactly, yeah, yeah.   If uh if prime numbers are like the sexiest 
numbers available, right, that part of the number   line right towards the beginning that is your 
A-list actor group right? And even if you're in   your triple digit numbers, that's like your B-list 
actor group, still not representative. And so it can   be good to form conjectures but unless there's 
an actual reason- I mean the vague connection,  I'm like oh something prime-y is happening here 
because we're counting number of divisors. You   know, you'd want something like that to have some 
teeth to it. Even before you attempt a proof you   sort of want to believe that the pattern is true 
and that there might be a reason for it because   that informs how you might pursue that proof 
and what uh what tactics and properties you   would want to isolate.
- (Presumably there are some 
patterns and things that can hold for a very very)   (long time, they're quite dangerous?)
- Yes, yes, there is a another prime number related pattern that   uh takes quite a quite a bit longer to break. 
- And you guessed it, we're going to show that to you in   the third and final video of this little trilogy 
with Grant Sanderson. All the links to the videos   are down in the description along with links to 
Grant's own A-list mathematics channel: 3Blue1Brown. You can also check out a podcast we recorded with 
Grant, there'll be a link down in the description,   plus more videos with him and all sorts of 
other stuff you might like to watch.