Well I want to tell you about some numbers.   We'll start with 2 and go on to 8, pass by 7776 
and come finally to 3264. We have a tour to make.   So how about 2? First of all this is a story about 
conics. Conics are curves in the plane that are   very familiar to students in high school already. 
If I have y equals x squared and I graph that it   looks something like this, that's a parabola. 
Parabolas are important in all sorts of ways   but they were also studied, along with the other 
so-called conic sections, by the Greeks already   for a long time and were a big subject in the 19th 
century geometry. So-called conic sections because   you can get all of them by slicing a cone. If you 
slice it right across straight you get a circle,   if you tilt your slice a little bit you get an 
ellipse, and if you slice it you get a parabola.   Tilt it a little more, just parallel to the 
center, you get part of a hyperbola. If you think   of the cone going both ways you get both parts of 
the hyperbola. In the 19th century people began to   think about these in a different way; uh they're 
given, all of them, by quadratic equations.  So here's an equation which is quadratic, has 
degree 2, an exponent of 2 and nothing higher.  And of course a circle can be written as x 
squared plus y squared equals 1, for example.   Ellipse if you put an x coefficient in front of 
the x you might get an ellipse. Hyperbola is x   times y equals 1. So all of these are quadratic 
equations, they have a term of degree 2. All   quadratic equations give conics; if you really 
include all of them then you get funny things   that you might not think of as conics at first. 
For example if you just take x squared equals   zero - what does that look like? Well here's x 
equals zero and x equals zero is the y-axis. X   squared equals zero is sort of twice the y-axis, 
and that will play an important part in our story.   Anyway those are conics. They're degree 2 things 
for a different reason as well. So one way that   mathematicians measure the degree of these things 
or of other curves is to draw a straight line and   see how many times it meets them. So let's try 
that with a circle: so we agree that a circle   is degree 2, it's given by a degree 2 equation, we 
drew it. If I draw this straight line it obviously   meets it in two points. You might object that well 
I cheated a little bit because I didn't draw this   line which seems to meet it at one point. But 
if you think of moving this line towards that   one then these two points just come together so 
I should really count that as two points - and   then that's two points. But now you'll say, okay 
that was fine but how about this line? It doesn't   seem to meet it at all. However you may or may not 
remember that I did a video about the fundamental   theorem of algebra which says that any polynomial 
in one variable of degree d has d roots if you   count it with multiplicity. That's the case here 
but the roots have become imaginary. One way to   see that, the equation of the circle we drew 
before is x squared plus y squared equals 1,   and if I now substitute y equals ax plus b,
the equation of a line, then I can write this   as a quadratic equation in x and y. This is 
then y squared, would be a squared x squared   plus 2 axb plus b squared. If I add an x 
squared plus x squared and it's x squared   plus one x squared and I've set that equal to 
1 - or subtract 1 and look for the roots. Then   that will have to have two roots because it's a 
polynomial of degree 2. So there are two points,   they just happen to have imaginary coefficients.
- (Brady: So that line is touching the   circle) (I just have to imagine it)
- That line touches the circle twice   but you imagine it that's right. So that's nice. 
Now in the 19th century this was well understood,   Gauss proved the fundamental theory of 
algebra, they knew that this should be true,   they worked in the complex numbers. But they 
went a step further; if you think about this,   what happens with this vertical line? Where 
does it touch the hyperbola? And the answer   is it touches it at the point of infinity. If you 
continued these lines out they would get closer   and closer together; they would never meet but 
you can imagine that there's a point out there   in infinity. We have a tangency at infinity of 
these two lines so that's a double intersection   again. And what about this one? Here these two 
go out and if we had a line at infinity - as they   imagined already in the mid 19th century - this 
thing would be tangent to the line of infinity.   That's what happens when you move that line all 
the way up. In fact when you look at equations   and allow yourself to make complex changes of 
coordinates, all these figures look the same.   There's no difference between a circle, hyperbola, 
parabola in terms of just the equation - they're   all degree 2 equations. And as I say they're 
degree 2 because they meet a line in two points. Now I want to talk about tangencies of 
figures, this was a big deal in the 19th   century too. So what do I mean by tangency? 
Here's the simplest tangency. You can see   if I think of a line in the space of lines, 
what would that mean? So let's take a point   out here and think of all the lines through 
the point, so that's what I would mean by a   line in the space of lines. And you can see 
that as I do this there are two places where   it's tangent. So that's a condition of degree 
2 also. In the space of lines this is a line   ,this family of lines is a line, and that line 
meets the condition of tangency also in two   points. So condition of tangency is an equation 
of degree 2 on the coordinates of this line. So   that's another way that you can have degree 
2. So now let's talk about the first number,   and another 2. Suppose I look at tangency of 
two circles. So two circles can be tangent, for   example this way - here are two tangent circles.
- (They're just kissing each other)  Kissing each other, they could kiss on the inside 
too like this. And a line in the space of circles,  what would that mean? Well here's- here's how I 
draw a circle but I could have other radii right?  I could put an r in there, that would be 
the radius of the circle. Turns out if I   make r bigger and smaller that's a line in 
the space of circles. Here is one circle,   I'm going to fix this circle and I'm going to 
take another circle and change its radius. So   I'm going to fix the center, the center here is 
(0,0), and I'm going to change the radius and   watch it and it expands and at a certain point it 
becomes tangent to this circle and then it stops   being tangent afterwards. After a while it'll 
be a circle which has this as its center which   looks like this and is tangent up here. It has a 
second tangency right? So in the space of circles,   being tangent is a degree 2 condition.
Right? That happens twice.  - (And it can't happen a third time?)
- That can't happen a third time,   even over the complex numbers, you have to 
take my word for that. But we could work it   out in equations and then it would be easy. 
Here's another way the degree plays a role:   we saw that a line meets something of degree 2 
in two points - how about two things of degree   2? An ellipse and a circle both have a degree 
2 and they can meet in four points, 2 times 2.   And it's something called Bézout's 
Theorem, a very important theorem in   geometry, Étienne Bézout I think.
- (But didn't your two circles   both) (have degree 2?)
- Yeah these both have degree   2 but they- and they look like they're 
meeting only in two points at a time  - (Oh they're meeting, sorry, 
that's meeting not tangenting yeah) That's right. But even so these circles look like 
they're meeting only in two points right but this   is a case like this- these lines, if we do 
it in equations then we could parameterize   the circle and substitute the equation of the 
other circle in it then we'd get an equation   of degree 4 and it would have 4 roots. So just as 
we computed here the degree 2 we'd have 4 roots.  So over the complex numbers they always have 
four intersections counted with multiplicity. Two   conics. And that's a case of Bézout's theorem: 
if you have a bunch of conditions of degree d   where you expect d solutions from a line, but 
if you have two of them then they meet in d   squared points. If you have three of them 
meeting in a 3-dimensional space like three   spheres would meet in eight points over the 
complex numbers. So that's a general fact. So   how many circles are there? What is the space 
of circles like? So if you think of circles,   there are really three numbers that are important: 
there's a center, let's say the point (a,b),   and there's the radius, the equation x minus a 
squared plus x minus b squared equals r squared.   So that's the equation of a general circle 
and there are three numbers involved. So the   space of circles is a 3-dimensional space. 
Now if you have a 3-dimensional space and   you have conditions which are satisfied by some- 
somewhere on a line, let's say two in a line, those   are quadratic conditions, then Bézout's theorem 
tells you if you have three such conditions there   ought to be three points of intersection. So Bézout 
interpreted that funny way says there should be   2 times 2 times 2 - 8 circles - that fulfill all of
three degree 2 conditions, like being tangent to   a given circle. So we take three circles - so here's 
one, and here's one, and here's one. If you worked   over the complex numbers you could do it with 
any three circles in the plane you wanted. And   now let's see if we can draw eight circles tangent to
all of them. And the trick is that a tangent circle   can be outside or tangent inside. So I have 
two different ways of being tangency and three   circles so 2 times 2 times 2 seems very 
reasonable. So here's a circle that's inside all of   them, here's a circle that's outside - whoops - outside 
all of them. These are Eisenbud circles you've- you've had   Eisenberg 17-gon so- 
- (We're used to your using a lack of precision yeah) 
- Yes so let's see if we can draw one   that's inside this and outside those two: well no 
problem, here's one that's inside that and outside   those two. And I can do the same thing over here 
clearly, something like this or something like this.  Let's see, so I have inside all of them, inside the 
three and outside the others, what am I missing? I'm   missing one that's-
-(Gonna be one there isn't there?) 
- There's going to be one-    (Oh hang on, that's the same circle- )
- No that's right. So there's one here touching 
all three, so we now have the counting game. Let's   see there's one in here, we're missing this one, and 
this one- that's eight - ah we got it! So we got eight   circles tangent to the three given circles. Okay, so 
that's the beginning of the story, the 2 and the 8. (Okay all right!)
- Maybe this is two videos. Alright, so in the middle of the 19th century people   got more ambitious and they said, let's do the 
same thing with conics - why just circles? The circle   story is very old, I don't know who did it first, 
but maybe Apollonius or something like that. But   with conics it's more complicated, but this was a 
problem proposed by Jacob Steiner in 1848. He said   let's try this with conics but how many conditions 
do we need for conics? So we need to see how many   parameters a conic depends on. You can write it 
always as ax squared plus by squared plus cx   plus dy plus a constant e. One, two, three, four, 
five - so it's a 5-dimensional space of conics.   So we need five conditions. Well okay we could 
have tangent to a line, that might be interesting,  but why not tangent to conics? So if we- once again 
conics tangent to a conic is co-dimension 1, it's   it's given by one equation in the coefficients of 
the conic. If I fix a given conic like a circle   then there'll be a 4-dimensional family tangent 
to this conic. If I fix a second conic, maybe   that one, a parabola, there'll be a 3-dimensional 
family tangent to both. If I fix a third maybe it's   a hyperbola somewhere it'll be a 2-dimensional 
family tangent to all three. And if I fix two more   it should be just a finite set of conics tangent to 
all of them. So let's see if we can count how many.   So we have to see what the degree of the condition 
is of tangency. And with coni- with circles I could   draw it for you but with conics it's much harder and 
in fact it's a condition of degree 6. Each of   these five conditions is a degree 6 so Bézout's 
theorem says that five conditions of degree 6  should have solutions which are 6 to the fifth 
power and which is 7776 the last time   I looked. So Steiner said, okay this there should be 
that many conics tangent to five given conics.   (So just like you did the eight circles for me, you 
could do the same thing now with your conics)   (drawing other conics? And you could draw 7776?)
- Well that's what Steiner thought but   he was wrong. And Bézout's theorem doesn't work 
so well in this case. This was discovered pretty   soon afterward and first published by Michel Chasles;
 the right answer is not 7776 but 3264.   So you could draw, in principle, 3264 conics tangent 
to five - these five - given conics.
- (They- those those) (new ones you would draw in in red pen for me - 
which I won't ask you to do -)
- But I could draw it   just by filling the plane with red. You couldn't- 
you would never see the conics.
- (But they would be) (all different sorts of conics? There might be like 
1000 circles and 20 parabolas?)
- There might well, right. (Right, and and you don't know what that 
mixture necessarily would be?)
- I do not. But remember   in the- in the in the setting in which these guys 
worked there's no difference between parabolas   and hyperbolas or- they all look like equations 
like this, this coefficients just just they're   different coefficients. There are 3264 five tuples 
of numbers a, b, c, d, e which satisfy the condition,   that's what they- that's what Chasles proved. Or  claimed!
- (I mean as I- as I look at that now)  (it's almost hard for me to imagine one conic 
that would manage to tangent all of them-)   Well, that's because there's complex numbers involved right? 
- (So so you couldn't draw them- even if you)   (knew them you couldn't draw them?)
- On my real plane that's right. So it was a question for a long time   whether there is any configuration of the five 
conics which allows all 3264 conics to be real.   And the answer is yes, uh could be real could be all real.
- (Oh wow 'cos that would mean-)
- And there are pictures. - (There are pictures of it?)
- Yes. Again you can draw 
3264 it just fills the plane with black. But   you can draw a few hundred at a time and explain 
how they fit together. And this was done by a man   named Frank Sottile, that's quite recent. So sottile 
has specialized in this quest of realizing these   funny configurations over the real numbers in 
different ways.
- (It was quite a come down from)   (the hope of 7776 to the reality of-)
- That's right. So where did the other ones go, right? And there's a   good answer to that. So when you write down the 
the five equations that give the conditions of   tangency, unfortunately they have some spurious 
solutions. And the reason is very simple, and   I could even demonstrate it with the eight 
circles although it doesn't play a role there.   Circles are circles, you know what they are, 
they're round. But conics, as I said they come   in lots of shapes and if you let the equations 
degenerate a little bit; if you take b equals c  equals d equals e equals zero you get x squared 
equals zero, and that's the equation of a double line.   So the double lines could be in there; and 
if you think about it what is the condition   of tangency? It's that it where it touches it 
touches twice. But a double line touches twice   wherever it touches right? There's there's two 
lines there so it's it's tangent. And how many   double lines are there? Not just finitely many but 
a whole plane full. Because- you know you can draw   one parameter family of lines through a point, 
you can move the point so you have a two parameter   family of lines so there's a whole surface 
of lines. So when you intersected those five   conditions of degree 6 you got not finitely 
many solutions but a surface of double lines,  plus the solutions you really wanted. And Chasles had 
to figure out how to remove the surface and write   down the conditions without the surface. He got 
the right answer by methods which are not rigorous   by our standards; and probably the first rigorous 
demonstration of this number is due to Fulton and   MacPherson in the 1970s. So it took a long time to get this right. 
- (Well a long time to get it rigorous,)   (he got it right!)
- That's true he got it right.
Actually there were a lot of numbers computed by   by shady methods in the 19th century and they've 
all been right so they were pretty smart. 
- (Who needs rigour?)   Right, exactly. Nowadays we just compute on the 
computer we can see. And in fact numerically   you can find the 3264 lines in a second or so 
on a fast machine, but it's not quite a proof.  (Tell me about your special relationship with the
number 3264 - you've used it)
- Yes I have. Joe Harris   and I wrote a book on this subject which is called 
intersection theory and the book is called '3264   And All That' and there's the picture of the eight 
circles tangent to three given circles on the   cover. Let me explain a real proof of the case of 
the conics somewhere in here. Let's see, there are some   conics I wonder if I have a theorem somewhere in 
this chapter. We called it the five conic problem   and uh here it is as a keynote problem - how many 
conics are tangent to five? And another similar   problem given: 11 general points in the plane, how 
many rational cortic curves contain them all? And   there you can multiply these problems as long 
as you like. They're mostly good for sharpening   your tools for more serious things, but problems 
like this are all over the place in mathematical   physics today. In general this whole theory of what 
what are called excess intersections which Fulton   and MacPherson made precise in the mathematical 
sense play an enormously important role in   mathematics and physics. So that's the story 
of 8, 3264, and 7776.    ...crude simple-minded way. And it turns out to be that you're really pretty close for big numbers. So let's let's do a little   calculation. One of the most famous theorems 
in number theory is the prime number theorem...