- Welcome friends to a
very special occasion because today we are building the ultimate Ikea gaming setup. Now you might be asking, Ikea gaming setup? And that is because they have
a brand new collaboration with ROG, and therefore
Ikea wanted to sponsor us to build out not only, a wide variety of excellent
gaming accessories and desk setup related activities, but on top of that, we also have a brand new studio, what fortuitous timing
so that this very empty, white studio with nothing
but the beginnings of our lighting rig, can then be upgraded
to instead to do work, power our gaming needs. So, I think we need to start building. - [Cameraman 1] Who's we? - I'm using the royal we here,
as in, it's a team effort. - [Cameraman 1] You. - No it's not - [Cameraman 1] You - We're gonna be here. Do
you want to go home tonight? - [Cameraman 1] I mean, I don't have a family to go back to so. - [Austin] Okay, touche. Oh no, I just realized, I have to say Swedish words in this video. - [Cameraman 2] You can't
pronounce regular English words. - [Austin] I know! I would like to sincerely
apologize to our kind sponsors at Ikea for butchering
the Swedish language. (Austin groaning) So this is the Uppspel. - [Cameraman 1] Uppspel. - [Austin] Uppspel. - [Cameraman 1] There's
no, there's no umlaut. - The Uppspel. - [Cameraman 1] Uppspel. - [Cameraman 2] So this is. - [Austin] I'm gonna build a desk, okay? So what's cool about this is that, ah my funny bone. (Austin laughing) - [Cameraman 2] We love
seeing you in pain. - [Cameraman 1] So normally
someone would build this on their own, but Austin has
enlisted the help of the crew. - [Austin] Yeah, what do you think we're actually going to be here all day? There's a lot to build here
and we got to build a whole PC. - [Cameraman 2] I've
done more in 12 seconds, then he did in two hours. - [Cameraman 1] That is actually true. - [Austin] Two hours, we've been here for five minutes. - [Cameraman 1] That
looks more like a table than what he was doing the whole time. - [Austin] Clearly, since
I'm not necessary here, I'll just see y'all when it's done. Enjoy. - [Cameraman 1] Wait, no,
no, no, no, no, no, no, no. - [Austin] I'll just play the games on it. I just have a good time. You all have fun, like ah. - [Cameraman 2] You guys want
to see how the real videos go? That's exactly it. - [Cameraman 1] Austin doesn't
actually build his PC's. - [Austin] Here's how the video goes. All right, so let's get started. Cut. All right, I'll see you guys later. (bright playful music) - [Austin] So is that full extended? That's, so this is really the size? I mean, I guess it looks about right, huh. - [Cameraman 2] Just go down. - [Crew] I can always get the power squat. - [Austin] Because it's
not plugged in yet. - [Cameraman 2] This is so
much worse than (indistinct) - [Austin] I'm gaming.
I'm a gamer right now. Alright. So now that we've gotten most
of the desk put together, it's time to crack open. What I can certainly hope is our tabletop. This looks roughly a
tabletop, sized and shaped. Now I've seen what this looks like, and it is a pretty cool design. Now the cool thing about this is it. You actually can build
it in one of two ways. You can actually build
this and put this together, either with this being the
front or the other side, being the front. If you want to have your chair
a little bit closer or cable management. So with our desk assembled, we're gonna do a little protection here. As we build the rest of our
stuff for no reason, like, ah, no one trusts me to not scratch
up our fine new tabletop with a wild power tool usage. That's clearly not going to happen. So why don't we start working
on the desk chair next? Oh, let's see. Let's open
this up on the floor. Now. Let's say that now I'm
like really feel really being paranoid. I don't want to ruin anything. This is what actually is
not even that hard match. Spiel seems like a really
simple, easy name to say, but I have no confidence
in saying anything. That's remotely Swedish. Woo. A little red accent. It's pretty nice. Oh, the kush is real. - [Cameraman 1] You
don't even know if that's the part you sit on. - Ooh. The kush is real. Oh, the red wheels actually
a nice touch though. That's actually a nice touch. Watch this. Watch this. Watch this. Ready? Ready? - [Cameraman 1] Yeah. - Got it. One end. Thanks Jared. I appreciate the enthusiasm. Ken, how many years did
you go to film school for? - [Ken] Four. - [Austin] Did those years
of film school teach you how to watch me put together chairs? - [Ken] No. - [Austin] You learn
how to elegantly capture the chair building process. - [Ken] Nope. - [Austin] And so we are
almost done building. So the next step is to check
our ROG PC that we've put together to see if it actually will work. And if it does fingers crossed, we'll be ready to actually
start cleaning up. So then we're ready. So that's supposed to do
something. Oh, I see RGB. Okay. Okay. Okay. We have power now. All right. Now that we have successfully
turned on the power strip. Let us see if this system works. Hey, that's a lot of fans. It's a little loud. That's fine. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 fans. Oh, Hey good. Okay. All right. All right. So at this point
we just need to finish up, installing everything on the PC, clean and tidy a little
bit and we should be ready. To show off the ultimate Ikea gaming setup. (upbeat music) Welcome to our ultimate Ikea gaming setup. Not only do we have pretty much
the entire lineup of ROG Ikea products, but also we've got
them incredibly well lit, thanks to Ken who definitely
spent several hours getting this set shot. Exactly perfect. And I start moving around
and he gets mad at me. Look at this. Look at
how smooth my chair is. Do you see? Look, I'm
going to do one tilt. Ready? How many spins can I get? That's one, two. The nice things about this
chair is that it is incredibly comfortable. Now just the Matchspiel
feature fully adjustable armrests and a fully adjustable headrest, but also has that smooth swivel
action and the seat in the back rest, all moved together, which actually is
legitimately really nice. When you're gaming, you
want to sit up straight, you've got the support, but if you want to actually
lean back and relax, especially that head rest, man, ah, I can take a nap here after
I pwn the noobs. Yeah. So I said that with a straight face. Y'all just have to live
with it, what you'll also see is, are incredibly fast standing desks. So right now it's all the
way down. But watch this, the dual motor design, that might be one of the
fastest standing desks I've ever tried. And the nice thing about this
collaboration that Ikea have done with ROG is the fact that you
can get all this for a very reasonable price. The value is there, but you've also got the aesthetic, especially if you are a fan of ROG, you get little Easter eggs
everywhere between the graphics on like the table legs. And of course, we've gone all out with this setup. So we have a little bit of everything, but you can see that really
kind of works well together, which is especially helpful
for me because oftentimes I try to design something I'm
low. Oh, I don't know. And then either Ken does it
or we just let ROG and Ikea do all the work for us and get that sweet, cohesive design also. So the screen, which I find very useful and
you also have presets on the desk, so you can have it exactly
set up to go like 1, 2, 3, 4, your various different
sitting and standing modes. I am personally a big
proponent of standing desks. I use one at home. I use one at the office and
that is entirely because it feels to me far, far healthier to actually be
able to stand while you're working or even while you're
gaming. Speaking of the PC, you can see that we have
put together a system. Now for this video, we opted
to put it on top of the desk. Although there is as part of
this, a collaboration with ROG, they actually do have a stand, which is specifically for a
computer tower. So if you want, you can kind of get it off to the side. Although considering just
how large this desk is, I feel like it actually looks
pretty nice to have it all one piece. As you can see, we also have a lot of
the other accessories. So we've got what probably is
my favorite accessory here. We've got the hand which
can hold our ROG headphones. You also have this very cool
little ring light and phone combination, which I'm
going to switch over to now. So this is what it looks like
when I'm recording with my phone using this beautiful
ring light. So of course, when you're on a Zoom call
or really specifically, if you're a content creator, something like this is a super easy setup to get going. Now, yes, it may not be quite as seamless
looking is this beautifully lit footage that Ken has
spent hours setting up. But the nice thing is it's an
easy way to do a little bit of like Twitch streaming or Instagram
live or whatever the case is from the comfort of
your brand new desk. It also has a phone holder, as well as the ring light built into one. You can change the color
temperature and you can also change the brightness. - [Ken] Most importantly,
it has a gooseneck. - [Austin] It does. I,
although I will say as with all ring lights, if you were a glasses
wearer such as myself, you may want to consider
a different lighting selection. - [Ken] LASIK LASIK. - [Austin] No, I don't do LASIK. No, I'm not going to do LASIK. look, here's the thing. Right? Ring lights look great for
everyone who doesn't wear glasses - [Ken] Contacts. - [Austin] So you know, some
of us like the look of glasses, all three of us are
wearing glasses right now. And then if you're feeling
like you need a little bit of extra comfort in your life, may I suggest this beautiful pillow, which not only you can easily
stick your arms through, but there's a little bit of a secret. I am the gaming master now. I put it on backwards. - [Ken] I put it on backwards.
You put it on there. - [Austin] Oh, look, look
how comfortable I am now. That's all. I just really want
an excuse to pull this out. Oh, nice of this. And I still have my arm holes. The cabinet is also incredibly useful. Not only does it have wheels as well
as it has a little headphone holder on the side, but also is a great place to
store things like snacks or I don't know, extra gaming accessories. Although I will say having the
pegboard does make it really nice to have all of your
controllers and extra mice and all that kind of stuff. Nicely displayed. Obviously Ikea are well-known
for making furniture. I would bet the majority of
those of you who are watching have some kind of Ikea
furniture somewhere. But the nice thing is now
they've got this gaming line to me. It's such a vibe, right? And I know that the dude with
the cactus shirt telling you about the vibe is probably
not the number one person I listen to advice for when
you put all this together, not just to look nice,
but unlike some stuff, which is very gamery, this is a little bit more
of a subdued aesthetic. Like the ROG stuff. I think to me, that's just a little bit
of texture to things, but it works well together. It's not overly like
in your face. Like, ah, that's what it feels like to me. Okay. This is my personal truth. Did a lot of gaming stuff
feels like that. And this, this feels like a properly
like the atmosphere is really here. This is the thing
I really appreciate. So if you're interested in
learning more about any of the fine accessories and pieces of
product that we have in this video, definitely be sure to go check
them out at the link in the description. And of course, huge shout out to Ikea
for sponsoring this video, allowing us to go completely
crazy and build what I think is really the ultimate Ikea gaming setup. (music ending)