- Welcome to the eBay versus
Etsy Gaming PC challenge. If that sounds like a way to burn a lot of money really quickly, then you would be correct. There's a lot of people
selling Fortnite PC's. $580 for a Ryzen 5 Game PC. 440 bucks for a Quad Core
AMD System, 16 gigs of RAM, two terabyte hard drive. Vega three. Oh, oh. Yeah, that's an Athlon 200GE. Holy (oof), that's terrible. So when it comes to the eBay PC, our goal is to purchase the system and then upgrade it and flip it to see if
we can make a profit. On the Etsy side of things, well, we're gonna start by seeing just exactly how creative
the computer will be. ViprTech Gaming PC Computer, with an Intel i5-650, a first gen i5. This is a processor that came out in 2010. A Budget Dell Game PC, an i5, and a GT 1030/710. This isn't crazy. Um. It's not great though. It's not great. Coming back around to eBay. Well, yeah, so this is $300. What's inside? Second gen i5, hard drive and a 1050. - [Ken] Second gen i5? - Yeah. AMD FX 6100? Wait, hold on, hold on. FX 6100, but has an SSD and an R9 280. Oh, this is old, but this actually could work. He's already got the RGB fans. That one's probably the
best one I've found yet. Ooh, $2,000 for the Mint Michele ECO, the Mint Gaming PC. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Wait a minute. There's no graphics card. They charge you $2,000 for a Ryzen 5 with integrated graphics. Oh my God. I think Etsy is just a place for people who don't know
what they're talking about to buy gaming PCs. I think that's what we found out here. A Ryzen 3 and a 2060 for $1,500. Oh my God, that hurts. Wait, here, hang on. Here's 180 bucks. So it's a DELL with a GT 630, but wait, that actually may work. This looks like, hang on let me see. Okay, mouse, keyboard. If it's actually the system, I actually could use it, potentially cause I have an actual
full-size graphics card 120 gig SSD plus one terabyte hard drive and Windows 10. I think this is my move. Now with my eBay PC locked down, it's time to see what Etsy has to offer. Okay, here we go. (claps) That is what I expect
out of an Etsy gaming PC. That's stickers. I like the--
- RyzenShyne. (Ken laughs) - Wait, do they give you a TV? - [Ken] Yes. - This comes with a TV? - [Ken] Budget 4K system, comes with TV. - Ohh, Jesus. 4K with a Ryzen 3 3200G, that's such a bad idea. - [Ken] But it comes with a TV. - It comes with a Westinghouse 4K HDR TV. And a Corsair gaming keyboard and mouse. This is everything we need. - [Ken] Look, if mom was
just shopping on Etsy and she saw this and son wanted a PC, pretty sure she would eye this one. - I think we got to buy this thing. Before we continue with
the gaming PC build, this video is sponsored
by the Oculus Quest 2. I know we've already done
an entire video on this, and I truly do believe
it is the best VR headset you can buy right now. However they now have a
ton of other accessories, which make it even better. Starting with the Quest 2
charging dock by Anker. This is cool because not only does it allow you to wirelessly charge your
Quest 2 just by dropping it in, but importantly, it also
charges your controllers. This is really rad, because it allows you to,
with this little cover, not only wirelessly charge
using these custom AA batteries, but also it magnetically attaches. Very, very cool. I put it in backwards. Very cool. (laughs) There's also the Oculus 2 fit pack. You can easily swap out the foam insert, which is important because VR is all about being comfortable when you're playing long term. So for me, I found that the wide one actually fits my face best but Ken's rocking the narrow one, right? - [Ken] Yeah. - Now on top of that, if you want to use the
Quest 2 with a gaming PC, you're absolutely going to
want to pick up the Link Cable. What makes Oculus Link great, is that while of course you
can use the headset untethered, once you connect it to your gaming PC, it opens up an entire world of
new possibilities for games. And the Oculus Link Cable
specifically is five meters long and high quality which means you're not
losing any bandwidth. On top of that, I also have the Logitech G Pro headset. Not only does it give you
some great audio quality but on top of that, it is super helpful because you don't have
a ton of extra cables and whatnot all in your way. Now this, just a little bit of a look at what the Oculus Quest
2 has got going on. So feel free to check it out the link in the description and thank you very much to Oculus for sponsoring this portion of the video. Now, if you excuse me, I'm gonna finish building a PC and beating this level, finally. It's hard to know exactly
what we're going to get. I think I have an idea and that idea is not exactly promising but the good thing is the eBay PC should actually be here
in just a couple of days. For the Etsy computer, well, we're looking at
at least a few weeks before it's actually been expertly crafted and delivered to our doorstep. I hope that sentence is correct. I hope that that's what happens. And so we have our eBay
gaming PC build ready to go. So we ended up actually saving $40 because it turns out this was
actually available locally. So we had them knock that off and we just picked it up. So with $180 out of our wallets let's see what we actually bought. Oh, okay. - [Ken] Tool-less. - That's impressive. Wow. (laughs) Gaming PC, RGB. What's up? So we have what is an awful
looking graphics card. It's so tiny. What is this? So we've got two DisplayPort and a DVI. We do have a WiFi card which looks like that was
actually installed after the fact. So that's nice. Wait, hold on, hold on. So we have a optical drive. We also have a SATA, like an SSD here. (screw whirs) Oh, look at that. Oh boy, that's not a, okay. That does not look like a
particularly high end SSD. - [Ken] But it's still an SSD. - [Al] It's an SSD, a SATA 3, 120 gig. Okay. What is this memory? This is four gigs RAM? Wait, hold on. How much RAM is this? Does this actually have 16 gigs of RAM? I thought it had eight. Yeah, look at that. They've actually upgraded the RAM as well. So really what I'm looking at here is we just need a better graphics card cause this is clearly not going to cut it. I mean, it's fine if you
want to, you know, run Word but I mean, for actual gaming that's not gonna be worth anything beyond like the most basic of basic low settings. Let's actually fire this thing up and see what we're working with. All right. Here comes the real test,
did we buy a piece of (censored) or did we get something cool? We have a i5-3470. So that is Ivy Bridge third generation. That's actually not bad. I think we can absolutely play some pretty decent games on that. And then we have two 500 gig hard drives. So that's what we have down here. I guess that makes sense. I bet the people who sold us this essentially got like a
hundred of these things, they were all being recycled, and Frankensteined it together. What else do we have here? So we have a GT 630. Yeah, that's coming out. That's definitely coming out. A GT 630 with two gigs of GPU memory. Mm. Not good. What can we get a 1050 Ti for? Woo, that's expensive. - [Ken] Oh, no, no, no, below profile, oh well that's--
- Ohh. - [Ken] No, keep going, these are new, these are all new. - Oh yeah, I can get 1030
for like 45, 50 bucks. Yeah, 50 bucks, buy it now. I know I have a 1030 across the hall. That will put this thing at 220? 230, 230? Okay. I'll be right back. I'm go exploring. So, I've spent the last
few hours rebuilding our eBay gaming PC. So I had to make some
creative modifications. While I was able to transplant
our Dell motherboard into our donor Cooler Master case, there were some casualties along the way. First of all, was actually
one that I wasn't expecting, which is the power supply. So if you look over at the original Dell
chassis that we're using, this, even though it's only like about a 300 Watt 80 Plus Gold, the problem is, this is
our CPU power connector. You can see this, if I
actually grab the light you'll be able to see a lot better. It is incredibly short, like
literally a few inches long. And because this has the
power supply on the top and this one has it on the bottom, I, five seconds into the build, realized I would need
another power supply. My front panels are also
completely proprietary as is my power button. So I haven't figured out
how to get that to work yet. But everything else has fit
in pretty much just fine. We have our Core i5, our 16 gigs of RAM. I was able to put one of
our 500 gig hard drives in. So unfortunately this case just simply doesn't have
room for the second one, but we have another 500 gigs, as well as a very questionably
mounted SSD there. One of the things I did opt to go for, is to go, instead of our 1030,
which would have been fine, but a little bit weak. Instead I did go opt for the 1650. So now with our new power
supply, new graphics card and new case all installed around our somewhat questionably
overpriced Dell motherboard and what not, why don't we see if we can
actually get this to turn on? I'm gonna start trying to jump it. - [Ken] We can figure out which
cable the power button is. Wait, or you want to just-- - Or you can just flip the power switch on and it works. - Yeah
- Oh okay, yeah. That's okay. - [Ken] It's a feature, not a bug. - [Austin] So everything
else is showing up here. Surprise, surprise. So I just need to download some drivers and I think I'll be fine. - [Ken] I still think you
should try to jump the board. If this thing shuts down, then you're gonna turn
the power supply off, and on again. - Flip it off and flip it on. Oh, oh. - [Ken] Well, there you go. Power button. Try to jump it. - No, I'm not gonna jump it. I have a better idea. - [Ken] We know, what good does that do? Taking the power button from the old PC? - Yeah. - [Ken] No, no, no. There's an easier way. There's an easier way. - [Austin] Nope, this is the better way. - [Ken] No, no, no. Here, here. - [Austin] I have found the way. - [Ken] I'll find it. I will find it for you. - [Austin] This is the way, Ken, this is the way.
- It's up here. It's literally right here. - Yeah, how many--
- There. I can literally almost turn it on. Look, Austin's out here trying to pass off his
power switch solution as the way to get this PC to power on. But if we're gonna sell this on eBay we need to make it a quality product. And that includes actually
making the power button to work. So in order to do that, while I might not actually
know what these pin outs are, might as well just try. The worst case, it doesn't work. What's the, what's the Yoda saying? - [Austin] Try, or do not try, wait no. - Try, try. - Try, wait, no.
- Try. - No.
- There is no. There is no try, only do. - [Austin] Do, or do not do. - Whatever it is. Josh will just put it down here. Force, jam this in. - [Austin] It works! Ken Bolido, you're a genius. - [Ken] I just made you an extra 50 bucks. - Okay.
- See look, look, a quick fix. I mean it's not really
the nicest looking thing. - [Austin] No, that's okay. It's okay. - [Ken] It's fine. It works now. - So one small update, apparently Fortnite is
now over 90 gigabytes, so it didn't fit on our SSD. So as the hype train comes by, we had to install it on our hard drive, which thankfully is there and it works. However, um a little bit slow as you can see by the
100% disc utilization for the last 30 minutes to install it. However, regardless now
that we have Fortnite, but we have what all the cool
kids are playing these days. Fall Guys. Let's see how our eBay
PC actually performs. First of all, let's turn
up our graphics settings. Obviously. - [Ken] I mean, this thing
literally runs on Unity. So I hope to God, your PC's fine. There it is.
- There we go. - [Ken] Oh, that looks totally fine. Wow. - [Austin] Got 68 FPS. No 60 FPS flat. - [Ken] Go, go, go, go, go. Yep, yep, there you go. - Wait.
- Oh, oh! - Oh, no! I was that close! I was that close? - [Ken] Yeah. - Oh, I'll go play Fortnite now. So running it, epic settings, we're getting 50 FPS immediately. So that's not so bad. Is this really epic? Why does everything look so bloggy? - [Ken] This draw distances or not? - [Austin] Yeah, look at that. That's drawing in a really weirdly. Oh, you know what it is, dude? It's the hard drive, cause I installed on a
hard drive, not the SSD. That's why it's running slow right now. Cause my FPS is fine. - [Ken] Question is, do you
think it's sellable still? - I actually think we can
sell this PC as is, yeah, because right now, Fortnite is working. It's a little bit slow on the hard drive, but it's not really a performance issue. It's just a matter of like
it can't load all the assets, but once you start walking
around, it's not so bad. So let's put this thing on eBay and see if we can actually turn a profit or if I've wasted not only time but also money. Odds are, probably. Just had to take a guess. Welcome back. So we have now successfully
listed our gaming PC on eBay. With just a few minutes left, let's see exactly how close we are to making our money back. So first of all, we have
the gaming PC itself, which we spent a grand total of $198 for. We also have, well, some other components that we may or may not have borrowed from the office. So the graphics card we're
gonna put it in about $140 for 1650. Also gonna put $40 for our power supply, our 500 Watt EVGA. The case was about $45. And our RGB strips were about 15, giving us a grand total of. - [Ken] $434 - $434. So if this system is able to sell for a dollar more than that, actually needs to be a lot more than that because we have shipping and eBay fees. Hopefully it sells for a lot more. So if the eBay fee is 10%, we are not gonna make
our money back on this. We're gonna be close. Oh 453. That was all. So no one tried to snipe it at the end. Damn. The grand total is, after eBay fees and all the stuff, we were negative, $30? - [Ken] $30.30. - You know, all being said and done, I actually feel pretty good about the eBay gaming PC that we've built. Obviously we started out with
some pretty budget components but stuff that might be older,
that's still good, right? Now, my real fear here is not so much how we're
gonna do with the eBay PC, but what exactly we're gonna be receiving from our friends over at Etsy. So this point, I've seen photos of what the Etsy gaming
PC should look like, but this, this is the real thing. (laughs) Oh, oh wow. Oh, that, that. Okay, so. Story time, my friends. So we are shooting this about a month and a half after I first placed
the order for this system. So the guy on Etsy was very nice. I've been messaging him
almost every day since then, as we were picking out the parts, as he was going through and sort of configuring the entire system and this, this is an Etsy gaming PC, all right. So, okay. Where do we begin? So, this is a fireball, I believe. We have a lot of orange on the inside. Little Charmander here. I'm not sure what this is. Volcano or something? Okay. This is a system that
took a lot of hard work that clearly was a labor of love and that I have purchased, and now own. I don't know what more I
could say about a computer to more eloquently
share my thoughts on it, than, I mean, just look at it. It tells you all you need to know. All right. So for this system, it came out to be slightly more expensive than initially anticipated. We ended up waiting until after Christmas after the holidays, for parts to get a
little bit more in stock. And the grand total for the
system before tax was $3,000, like 3,022 bucks or something. - [Ken] What? - Yeah, it was, okay. So there were Etsy fees. - [Ken] Is it the same stuff
that we saw in the listing? - No, so in the listing he
gave some examples, right? So remember when he was
talking about like the TV, we would have to pay extra for the TV. It did actually come
with some accessories, do you have, is there a box
of accessories somewhere? So we have a Orzly keyboard. We have a headset, which seems fine. We've got our mouse pad and we have our mouse. So a few accessories. Let's open it up. (laughs) We take our glass side panel off. Okay, well the look of that's not crazy. The sleeves could-- - [Ken] Use a little better finishing. - [Austin] Would agree. - [Ken] This is, this,
it's just coming off. That's just gone. - Oh that's not that bad. It's fine. So we have a fan
controller, Cooler Master. It is a Corsair R, oh it's an RM 750. Oh, that's actually a
pretty good power supply. - [Ken] Oh, okay. Well that's way better than I thought. - Yeah, yeah, that's actually pretty good. Plug this in here real quick. Are we ready to see the Charmander special light up for the first? - [Ken] Yeah, go. - Okay. All right. Look, we got some, that's
a unique looking LED strip. We also have RGB down here. I'm not sure what that's
going on with that. I've don't actually had the login here. Just give me like one second. (upbeat music) (door opens) - [Ken] Viewers at home, for $3,000. (door closes) I was telling the audience how for $3,000. - [Austin] Uh-huh. - [Ken] You or the audience, can't give
me (censored) any more for spending dumb amounts
of money on technology. (Austin groans) - [Austin] It's, look-- - This cost two and a half Mystery Techs. Look, I get it. But he spent $3,000. $3,000. You know what $3,000 can buy you? It can buy you like, how much does this cost? Like $1,500? It's the Max. You can buy two of these phones. You can buy like three of these. This is a 3080. You can get a whole ass camera. And he chose whatever
the hell this Etsy PC is. - So inside, we have a Ryzen 5, oh it's 3600 non X, okay. Fine. (Ken sighs) We have 16 gigs of RAM, our 5600 XT, which is
the eight gig version. What's a very interesting choice, we have not only one Samsung
860, one terabyte EVO. We have, wait. Wait, wait.
- It's just a partition. It's just a partition. - So we have our C partition, which is 100 gigs, essentially. Then we have 800 gigs in a storage space but then how do I have 800 gigs in disk two, and 833 gigs of unallocated? (Austin squeals) - [Ken] Well see, you just gotta drag. - What? Okay, no, no. I know how to do this. I don't know why it's set up like this. Traditionally, when you
take advantage of RAID, you're essentially taking two drives linking them up together and doubling your speed, right? I mean, that's generally
speaking what you use RAID for. The problem here, you can
more than double your speed by just purchasing a cheaper M.2 SSD, which just slots in and has no drawbacks and just works. But I'm like 90% sure
that one of these drives is like half empty because it wasn't partitioned or formatted correctly. I don't understand what happened. I would just restart. We've taken an in-depth look
at our Charmander Etsy PC. We don't need to look at it anymore. Why don't we actually see how it performs? (upbeat music) - [Ken] It must be nice to
spend $3,000 on something and not worry about it. - I could have bought
so many Pokemon cards. Like so many. - [Ken] Yeah. Sure. - Yo, this is like VSynced. This looks terrible. You see like the amount of like tearing. I mean, to be fair, I turned off VSync but I guess it didn't listen. Let me see if I can turn off that VSync. Oh, no, I gotta keep playing. All right. Well, it works. (upbeat music) - [Ken] This system costs
15 times more than a PS4. (upbeat music) - All right, let's play some Fortnite. - [Ken] You know what also
plays Fortnite great?. - What's that? (clatters) - Wow, and I'm the one who
disrespects technology. Look at this, 130 FPS. That's beautiful. That's, that, I, okay. Well that was stuttery but it's just like, whoa. Well that's, wow. I'm gyrating wildly between 15 and 120 FPS. It's something stalling. Something's stalling in the CPU or the GPU or something, that's
massively causing problems. Okay, that's just really bad. Stop building things! Who builds stuff in Fortnite? - So for this eBay versus Etsy video, there are a few takeaways that I have, none of which are really all that useful. I don't think you should go out and buy PCs on eBay and necessarily flip them unless you are really
good at value crunching, not like us at all. And for Etsy, just as I thought, just don't. (laughs) Just don't do it. - If this kind of aesthetic
is what you're looking for, there are many artisans on Etsy who will gladly craft you
a one of one masterpiece and I'm sure it'll look great. I am gonna probably not
do that anymore though. I'm gonna stick with building them myself. I think that seems like
the natural point here or buying them on Walmart. That actually kind of worked for us. Slightly. Just very slightly. (upbeat music ends)