- Hey guys this is Austin! When Vizio reached out and
wanted to sponsor a video on the brand new P Series Quantum X TV, the very first thing I thought of, was that this actually looks like a properly cool gaming monitor. By properly cool I mean a 65 inch game monitor
that I currently have plugged into a gaming PC right now, 'cause I mean of course I do... Just don't mind the cables. We'll tidy those up never. Especially when you pair
this with a gaming PC you can get some real
performance out of it. And of course you can
watch This Is episodes, which is definitely a good idea, you can check it out: YouTube.com/thisis. But more importantly than that, you can do real things like Apex Legends. One of the main advantages
with the P Series Quantum X is just how bright it is. So you can't go over the HDR mode, you can get a peak brightness
of nearly 3000 nits. Not only is that way beyond
pretty much any other TV we've ever looked at, but especially when you compare
it to like a gaming monitor, it is so much brighter and one of the nice things is that things that Windows
are doing a much better job, although not quite perfect, of supporting HDR displays and consoles, such as the PS4 Pro and Xbox One X, can also take advantage of that incredible brightness and clarity. I know it sounds like super
marketing kind of speak, but it is really nice to see something which can get this bright but also still has all the
functionality you expect in a gaming display. One of the more subtle
features is around back. So here we have five HDMI ports, four of which will do 4K, 60 Hertz, HDR, all that kind of stuff, but what really drew me to
this TV is HDMI number five, as this will allow the TV to run at 1080p at a full 120 Hertz. Now that is awesome, seriously this is a 65 inch, 120 Hertz display. And importantly, unlike most TVs that have some
sort of so-called game mode, this actually is a super low-latency port, I mean you're looking at
somewhere in the neighborhood of only ten milliseconds of latency, which is very much on par
with live game monitors, which are much much smaller. So the first thing that jumps out to me is that this is a giant display. I should've moved my mouse
and keyboard farther away, but the advantage here is that we really are getting an experience that you just can't get on a console. Sure consoles can play at 4K, HDR, and all that kind of stuff, but you're never going to get
this super high refresh rate. I mean dude, that's so smooth and it's so big, like ridiculous. For real though, I love the idea of hooking up a gaming PC to a display like this. It's such a unique sort of proposition, 'cause yeah there are these
high-end 4K HDR gaming TVs. That's nice, but they're insanely expensive, whereas this is something
which you can use as a TV, you can use it to watch Netflix or YouTube or whatever the case is, and you can also plug your gaming PC in and get an incredibly
good gaming experience. Right now we're like 150 frames per second and it's buttery smooth. Oh there we go, there we go! There we go! Dude people are totally
sleeping on the idea of using a TV as a gaming display. Now sure it's not the
smallest thing in the world and won't fit on your desk for example, unless you have a really baller desk, but the advantage here is
that you're getting something which will work for everything, right? You plug your PC in, you can play super high frame rates, super low latency, but you can also hook up
something like a console and of course use it
as a proper TV as well. A big reason why this TV is
such a jack of all trades is because it takes advantage of this year's quantum color technology. Quantum dots are a
really interesting thing that is not something that has really been explained very well as far as I'm concerned. So of course I had to
bring my buddy West in, to see exactly what
this thing is all about. What makes it tick, what makes it... Pixel? Sparkle, we're gonna go with sparkle on that one. What actually makes a quantum
dot different than say just a standard LCD? - Well with the standard LCD you obviously have a giant backlight, that's then pushing through
sort of a transparent finish of pixels, right? And then they're glowing different colors by having that light go through. - [Austin] Yeah.
- But to tune that backlight, there's always a filter, so instead of being super blue
- You can never be as accurate as you wanna be. - Exactly, it makes more of a neutral white. But what's really cool
about quantum dot technology is that it actually lets
you get that full range of brightness and color
- Yeah. - without getting super crunchy. - Yeah yeah. So with that quantum dot tech, it allows for a wider range of color and that is backed up by the
act of full array dimming, which has a full 480 zones
of local dimming on board, which means that you actually
get some proper contrast, as well as some very
very bright highlights. So right now we're casting
this as a TV right? - Yeah we're casting over Chromecast, Vizio's SmartCast OS essentially has a Chromecast
Ultra to filter it in. - So we have 4K, HDR, the whole thing.
- Exactly, anything that you can cast in
4K HDR to Chromecast Ultra, you can do with this. - But you also do have Netflix
and all that kind of stuff, and I know that they're
actually adding AirPlay as well to the TV soon, right? - [West] Yep AirPlay control
with Google Home and Alexa and all that fun stuff.
- [Austin] Oh yeah! - So they're really seeming
to make it fully integrated. - [Austin] They have everything on this. I really think it's worth
considering a giant display such as the P Series Quatum X. Not only is it good as a TV, but it's also surprisingly solid as a gaming display as well. If you guys are interested, I'll have a link in the
description to check this guy out, Vizio did give me a promo code which will get you a little
it of a percentage off of it, so definitely be sure
to go check that out.