- Hey guys! This is Austin, and this is the brand new Nintendo Switch. Yeah, seriously it's actually new. So alongside the Switch Lite, Nintendo has also refreshed
the standard Switch, and really the only way short of looking at something like a model
number to tell the difference, is by looking at the box. As you can see this is an all red box compared to the red and
white one of the past. TLDR; if you're buying a Nintendo Switch, get the red box because this promises significantly better battery life. Now the good thing about the Switch is that it actually doesn't
cost anything extra, and in fact, once we
actually crack it open, it should be kind of interesting
to see the differences. But on the outside this
is essentially a Switch exactly like every other model. It takes a very keen eye to spot the difference between the
old and the new Switch, but the main way to tell is by looking at the model number. So the original Switch is HAC-001, whereas the new Switch is HAC-001-01. Now it sounds like a
very subtle difference and especially when you
look at the hardware it is, however the brand new Switch, promises up to two
hours more battery life, thanks to an all new Tegra processor, which in theory, should deliver much, much cooler performance as well
as that better battery life. Of course that's the question, how much better is this new Switch? So as far as I know
there's actually no other differences with the Switch
on the actual unboxing side. So some people have
speculated that the plastic on the Joy-Con's is a
little bit different. I'm not really sure, I
mean I guess it- (sighs) It feels... No I think that's the same. (laughs) Yeah no, these are the same. I don't think they've really changed anything. I know that there've been, some rumors that there's like dust getting inside the sticks and stuff but,
as far as I can tell here this looks exactly like
the standard Switch, and that being said, it is very easy to accidentally get wrong version right? - [Ken] Now, is this Switch, going to be better, than this Switch? - Are you literally just trying to promote a video right now? All right well, if you wanna see what
this monstrosity is about, you can check out this video right here, where we built the Ultimate Switch. Spoiler alert, this is one of the
Ultimate Switches we built. Can't believe you're, promoting a video! We just started this video and now you're trying to get people to leave?! You should watch this after
you finish this video. So with this brand new Switch, the question really is
not only how much battery is the battery life, but how
much better is this really? Obviously it seems like
a no brainer, right? Same price, same everything,
as long as you get a red box Switch you're going to get that better battery life. But I'm really curious to see exactly what is different with this, and whether or not this gives us any indicators of not only
what the Switch Lite will be like but almost
not only importantly, what the Switch Pro will look like. So what exactly is inside this new Switch? Well I have taken the
liberty of taking apart the old Switch as well as the new one, and let's see what's actually different. Ahem! That looks very
similar! Um okay, so! Batteries are both sixteen watt hours, so, all the battery gains here really do come down to the processor. Um, I can notice some
very minor differences, uh, so this has different EMC flash. Ummmm, ha-ha, that's uh, that's about it. So what's interesting about this is that because it does have that upgraded Tegra X1 processor, it
means that in theory this should be a cooler console, and it certainly has better battery life. However they have done
absolutely no changes to the cooling system that I can see. Which means that you should still get that same level of performance
so even when it's dock mode, if you were even remotely
close to overheating before this should be significantly better. Which is interesting,
because Nintendo probably could have saved a few dollars, by making this cooling system just a little bit weaker, a
little bit less robust, because it's definitely overbuilt for what this is doing right now. However, at the end of the day it was probably cheaper for them to just swap out the SOC and call it a day. The actual chip underneath is probably smaller than it is here, so even though from this vantage point I can't see, lose almost certainly a sixteen nanometer shrink of the twenty
nanometer version of the X1. So one of the cool things
about the actual Switch itself, is that it's a fairly powerful console, but it's fairly powerful in sort of the grand scheme of things, because if you actually look at the Tegra X1 which powers it, it originally came out all the way back in 2015 with the NVIDIA SHIELD TV. Now at the time it was
incredibly powerful, but nowadays, it's good, but
it's not exactly amazing. And one of the main issues
with this chip back in the day, was that it was based on the
twenty nanometer process, which, long story short just
was not very power efficient. So the idea that they've
shrunk it down to sixteen on the brand new Switch,
or I'm assuming sixteen, but regardless they've shrunk
it down on the new Switch, it's pretty much entirely where these battery life gains are coming from. You can very much think of this as the difference between the
original PS4 and the PS4 Slim, or, the Xbox One and the Xbox One S. It's the same performance,
same everything, but because they've shrunk the processor, it's gonna take up less power, which means it's cheaper to produce, and importantly for the Switch, means that you've got better battery life. Now Nintendo claims that this new Switch can deliver almost
double the battery life. So specifically with Breath
of the Wild as an example, the Nintendo site claims
that the old model would get about three
hours of battery life, whereas the new model will
get five point five hours. That is, huge, especially given that we now know that the
battery is not any bigger it's purely just an SOC change. But of course we can't exactly take Nintendo at their word, can we? Yeah actually we kinda can. We put both of the Switches head to head, and essentially found that the
results were pretty accurate. So with the standard Switch we were able to get two hours and
forty one minutes of use, compared to four hours
and thirty four minutes with the brand new Switch. Now I will say there is a
big sort of asterisk here, in that the Switch automatically
dims the screen regularly, and we were using Super Mario Odyssey, so it wasn't a hundred percent fair as far as their comparison goes. However both Switches were running at the exact same time,
they were both brand new, a hundred percent battery, which I think should be a huge indicator of just how much better the battery life on this new Switch is. It's like, I mean it's
the difference between uh, two hour car ride and
a four hour car ride. I- If coulda come up with a
better, example than that. Almost immediately after
the Switch was announced, however, there were
rumors about a Switch Pro, but in this case, I think
there's a lot to believe here. It would make a ton of sense for Nintendo. However if there will be a new Switch Pro, it is certainly not coming out this year. Nintendo of America's new
president Doug Bowser, just a great name, has gone
on record with Scene At as saying that the Switch
Lite as well as obviously this new Switch, will be the
only new hardware this year. There will not be any kind
of Pro launching in 2019. New and potential hint
about the Switch Pro comes from the FCC's website, so in it, they posted a tear
down of the Switch Lite, which shows that the
circuit board has the name Valley on it as the code name. Sounds not exciting right? Well it is! On the original Switch there
was the code name of Odin, and as Valley was one of the son's, perhaps maybe there would be a, Thor? As the Switch Pro? This is really into
Nerd Town I will admit. However there is actually
better evidence than that. A new one interesting tid
bit from the FCC's tear down of the Switch Lite, is the battery size. So whereas the red box Switch as well as the standard have a
sixteen wide hour battery the Switch Lite has a smaller
thirteen wide hour cell, but even with that, because it has that more efficient processor,
it still means that you're getting that better battery life than the original model. However as of right now and at least for the foreseeable
future, the red box Switch will definitely be the
battery endurance champ. Even though Nintendo is still silent on whether or not we are
going to get a Switch Pro, the Japanese game site,
Gamepedia, has got a ton of rumors on some of the
specs that we could expect. According to them, the
Switch Pro will ramp up from four gigs on the
current model up to eight, as well as four times
the internal storage. Thirty two on the current
Switch and Switch Lite, and one hundred and twenty
eight gigs on the Switch Pro. All of which makes perfect
sense for a pro console. What will truly push
the Switch Pro, however, is going to be the actual spec inside. So because the NVIDA Tegra X1 is fairly old in the Switch right
now, there is certainly a lot of room for upgrades. So not only does NVIDIA have other models of the Tegra chip, but
you can also imagine a potential custom version
which is specifically meant for the Switch.
Now, supposedly Nintendo says that this is a custom chip, but, by literally all accounts this is a standard, off the
shelf X1, so if they were willing to do a little
bit of customization, perhaps adding some, retracing, or some other cool features
that NVIDIA has available, they could really push the
performance of this guy. I do believe this will be
based on the same architecture, just because you want to keep
that backwards compatibility, right? I mean the Switch
Pro needs to run standard Switch games, and developers don't need to necessarily develop a
different version for each- I mean, a game that
works on the Switch Lite should work on the Switch, which will work on the Switch Pro. However, with that extra power available, it should mean that just like we see on these standard consoles with the Xbox and the Play Station Four, you will have a game which will have an upgraded mode for the pro version. It will run at higher
spec's, higher frame rates, and in fact, that's the next major part of the supposed Switch Pro, the screen. Right now the Switch uses a 720p display, and it does look okay when
you put it in the dock, however it is very to imagine, say, a 1080p option on the Switch Pro, as well as a 4K output on a TV. Now I know this certain would not be as powerful as something
like a PS4 Pro or Xbox One X, however, the closer that it can get, and the more power you can
pack in a portable console, will absolutely help the Switch keep up, as the next generation of consoles are right around the corner. Now of course, all of these rumors have to be taken with
a huge grain of salt, but just taking a little
bit of a step back and looking big picture, I think Nintendo would be crazy not to be considering doing a Switch Pro right now. I mean on one hand you're
looking at the Switch which has kinda become a little
bit of a miracle machine. I mean this is a mobile based processor that is several years old, and yet we are regularly seeing ports of proper full PC and console games. Think about DOOM, think about Wolfenstein, the fact that these titles can run on the Switch is incredible. But those days are certainly
going to be numbered, considering that there is a
brand new generation coming up. With games such as the Witcher 3 sure to absolutely push the Switch to it's limits, it makes sense that we do
need a next generation. I mean sure these games
are very impressive considering what they're running on, but if you look at the version of DOOM on the Switch versus the
DOOM on, PS4, PS4 Pro, I mean it is really
not in the same league. It's the only difference between maxed out settings on PC versus low. It's such a huge cut, and with this next generation of consoles coming out, there are a lot of games
which I don't think will work at all on the Switch, and that's something that Nintendo should be really paying attention to, because they have gotten a lot
of up lift this generation, by having some properly
good cross platform ports. Sure, lots of people buy
Mario, and Zelda, and... Splatoon- and I dunno
whatever else they make, but at of the day, the
Switch is absolutely being helped by the fact there is getting so much third party
support versus the Wii U, and it has to have the power to keep up. This can all be boiled down,
actually surprisingly simply. If you are buying a Switch this second, the red box model is
an absolute no brainer. Same features, same price,
except it's just got much better battery life. Now if you wanna wait a little bit for the Switch Lite, it's a decent choice. It is cheaper, but you do
definitely have to ready to use a portable only console. Which I think a lot of
people will be fine with, but there is a little bit
of a limitation there. However, if you already own a Switch, or you aren't in a huge
rush, the Switch Pro might be worth waiting for. Now mind you, it's still
all in rumor territory, so we might be a year or more away from a Switch Pro actually hitting stores, but, I think there is a lot of potential, and to me, if Nintendo
does not really seriously consider doing a Switch Pro soon, I think they are completely crazy. It just makes way too much sense.