(mysterious piano music sting)
- What, are you okay? (energetic bass music) What are you looking for? - I feel something. A presence I haven't felt in many years. It feels mysterious. - [Ken] Tech? - Don't steal my line, yes,
it's "Mystery Tech" time! (warm smooth music)
(box clunks) Thank you for the HOTSOX, what the, not sure what you're trying
to tell me about my sock game. But I'm very proud of my Adidas. - [Ken] Oh Jesus. - I'm impressed that I was
able to kick my shoe off, and do that in one clean motion. - [Ken] Can you move your leg? - Hmm, what an interesting
visualization of heated socks! - [Ken] Or athlete's foot. (Austin laughs) - Importantly, this is 100% safe. We'll find out about that.
- Uh, I don't know. - Inside, wow, there's socks! Holy, this is heavy! Oh, this is a smart battery. 4,800 milliamp-hours? They're the same size
battery as like your phone! Because of how they function, battery powered heated products may cause discomfort or burns! What happened to 100% safe? (Austin clears throat)
(jazzy band music) You can charge for
this, but today, you're, we're gonna get a little
sock action for free. Look at that. Look how big that sock is! That's a, that's a lot. It looks like I've got like
a wire on or something. Oh yeah, when you stand on them, you definitely feel it's quite warm. You have a thermal camera?
(curious orchestral music) - [Ken] I do. - Can you just, you
just get a shot of this? - [Ken] Why? - [Austin] I, are they hot yet, Ken? Are they hot yet? - [Ken] Oh, you can see the coil! - All right, let's see here. Can I actually leave an imprint
of these socks on the floor? All right, ready? - [Ken] Yep! - [Austin] You got a footprint? - [Ken] Uh-huh. - This might be one of the
rare items on "Mystery Tech" that works as advertised. But this is, what the hell is that? Hey, this is my item! Did you what, did you
take the outta my office? - [Ken] Yeah. - You're not supposed to
tell people about my Warmie. - Your Warmie, you named it? - It's my Warmie, no,
that's the name of it! Since Ken so rudely
snooped through my office, let me show you my
little buddy, the Warmie. This is a friendly, adorable little sloth, but his secret weapon is
he's meant to be microwaved. - What?
(Kinsey laughing) - I'm not kidding with you.
(warm playful music) - What?
(Ken laughs) - Most little dudes don't
belong in the microwave, but this one does. Thank you very much, my friend. - [Joanna] Do you wanna
dust off the top at all? - (blows) Nope. - [Joanna] Oh. - It's fine. - Goodbye little buddy, hopefully
you come out much warmer. (microwave clunking)
(crew laughing) - [Ken] Jesus. (microwave humming)
(producers laughing) (microwave beeps) - All right.
(microwave door clicks) We'll see. Oh yeah, he's a little warm. (chill atmospheric music)
(box clunks) (packing rustling) - Is this a LEGO mechanical keyboard? - [Ken] Would you
be happy that it is? - Unclear, it depends on how it looks. So, as someone who has
dabbled a bit in keyboards, this looks expensive.
(warm upbeat music) Matt's face ensures that my
fears have been confirmed. - It's not the most expensive we've ever had on the channel. (laughs) - That does not make me
feel any better, Matt! Thankfully, while there are, like, what looks like to be studs underneath, there is like a sort of clear
plastic acrylic over them. So, you're actually, you're touching what just feels like a regular keyboard.  It does, oh my God, okay, it's a USB-A-to-C with studs on it. (Ken laughs) So, you could literally put
LEGO bricks on your cable. All right, you know what? I think I'm warming up to this. And it is Bluetooth, so we've got 2.4, as well as Bluetooth
built-in, which is nice. How much was this very colorful
LEGO-inspired keyboard? - [Matt] You wanna take a guess? - Considering that this
is a full custom shell, which I mean, to be fair,
it feels like just LEGOs, but obviously there's a lot
more involved in it than that. And what is a relatively
nice keyboard to type on. I'm gonna say 250. - [Matt] So, this one is $280. - I was pretty close. - [Matt] So, these are custom
T and custom L switches. - I can believe it, they do feel unlike anything I've ever tried before. I need to make some kinda design. - [Matt] If only our company had a logo. (upbeat electronic music) - [Ken] He needed to look- - Oh my God!
(Ken laughs) - That's pretty good, right? That's pretty good! All right, I'mma try
to do the typing test, I'm not gonna do well. (keyboard clicking) 54 words per minute. Yeah, you can get used to this. If you look at this, and you
think that this looks dope, then you should go for it, honestly. It's a wireless keyboard, you know, obviously can plug it into a USB-C. The fact that it's got this little, like, LEGO brick cable is incredibly cool. The Matts of the world will enjoy it. - LEGO! (cheery playful music)
(box clicks) - Lighthouse, this is
the Neon Lighthouse T1. When we took a look at
YouTube sponsor scams, we took a look at a wide variety of different items that
had been emailed to me as pitches to be potential sponsors. And while some of them in
that video were actually good, this one just didn't show up, like, straight up didn't show up. So, now that it's here, let's take a look. So, this is small, it's actually,
it's pretty lightweight. So, this is just what it
does when it lights up, which I will say, the
actual, the gradients, it looks nicely diffused. Lemme change the modes
here, let's explore it. Whoa!
- Oh! - Actually, the animation is- - [Matt] Wait. Test? - Oh, wow. - I don't have a lotta good
things to say about this, but it at least looks cooler
than I thought it would. - Hello!
(sneaky orchestral music) It is me. Austin! See, I disappeared, you
can't find me now, can you? Boo. - Oh!
- Ah! It burns! Why does this say, "hazmat surface?" Is there something dangerous in here? - [Ken] Yeah, toxic. - [Matt] It's a mousepad
made of (dolphin chatters). (Austin sniffs) (producers laughing) - We're censoring that! So, this is the Genki Waveform. No, I saw, it's a Kev
Kenson video on these. They're headphones that
are meant to be used, I mean, you obviously you
could use them for anything, but they're kind of a
little bit more meant for like the Switch and whatnot. So, you can connect and
mix two audio sources. So, essentially you could have, say, your Switch paired, as well
as your phones, or Discord, or whatever on your
computer, or something. And there's also, oh yes, okay, this is the
part I'm most excited about. So, last year, we did a
video on Kickstarter scams, and one item that was
absolutely not a scam was the original version
of the Genki Covert Dock. Look how tiny this is! - Hey!
- Yay! (producers laughing) - It works! I am successfully "Smashing." This Switch right now
is currently connected via one USB-C cable to the dock, which is providing it power, and then spitting an HDMI
signal out to the TV. I mean, it's not like
the world's best charger, it's only like 20 watts. But the fact that you
can completely get rid of your Switch dock, and
plug this directly in, solid, it's cool, I like it. The Genki Waveform headphones. Oh my good lord,
(chill atmospheric music) that is huge, actually. Nah, this is a pair of my Sony LinkBuds S, the headphones that have been in my pocket for close to a year now. And this is the Waveform. It is a big chunky boy. Not that there's anything
against big chunky boys, or anything, but-
- Hmm. - Leave the earbuds in the case, connect the case to an
audio source via Type C, wait till the light disappears. This is not as cool as I thought. You actually have to
plug it into the case. The case is a USB-C,
like, audio interface, which then sends it. So, it's not like it
just automatically works. - Wait, no, no! It's very niche. I think I like this more. - So, theoretically, I
have now, via Bluetooth, paired my Z Flip, an Android
device, to these headphones. At the same time, I have an iPhone connected via USB-C to Lightning. So, if I've done this correctly, I can now hear from both
sources at the same time. I'm gonna start out by playing
something on the iPhone, and seeing if that actually works. I'll play,
(chill electronic music) This Is video, what else
would I ever wanna watch? Now, I'm gonna play some music. I hear them both. Now, how do I mix them though? I guess I actually just change
the volume settings, right? So, if I wanted to,
say, turn my music down, and then turn my audio up. Yeah, so you literally just
adjust the levels on each side. This actually works. A little complicated to set
up, but once you get it set up, that actually works completely fine. How much are these earbuds? - [Matt] They were $250. - Oh no. Nope. These LinkBuds are
cheaper, sound far better, and if you've got devices
that are compatible with it, you can do a little bit of
that mixing between devices. Okay, this is a very large
box, thank you very much. Does anyone know what this is? - [Matt] Sort of, I opened it up enough to know where it's from. - This-
- Whoo-hoo! - Is a item from Grid. Now, if you're not familiar, Grid is a company who make
a lot of these little like framed pieces of technology. We actually had bought
some for a previous episode of "Mystery Tech." So, did they, we order this,
or did they just send it? - [Matt] They sent this
to us in the PO box. - Okay, well, thank you very much, Grid. I appreciate this like legit
wax, and an actual plant. (sniffs) That smells like a plant. Three, two, one.
(intense dramatic music) (packaging tearing) (producers laughing) - Okay, well, maybe not.
- Okay, I think that's a little bit
anti-climactic, what is this? This is it, what? What is this?
- No, Austin. - [Austin] What? - Read, just read. - I can't read.
- Just read. - There's instructions!
- Just read. - [Ken] It's on the top. - Okay, okay, okay. Open the back plate, remove
the sponge and white paper, and put the back plate back. Oh, okay. (intense heroic music) (Power Puff Girls whooshing) - [Ken] Thank God this is not the Declaration of Independence. - [Matt] I know, right? Nick Cage is rolling over in his grave. - I was gonna say!
- No, I didn't hear that! - [Joanna] Nick Cage is
still alive. (laughing) - Eh.
- No. - Debatable.
- Oh. (punch thumping)
(person grunting) (person screeching)
(person grunts) (warm string music)
- Rah! (punch thumps) - Three, two, one!
(smooth chill music) Ta-da!
- Oh! - Okay!
- It is every bit of Apple chip-like activities. Each one's a little enamel pin. - Oh.
- All right, I like this. - This is actually really cool. This is interesting because
it also shows the prices, and the years of each of these. And it's kind of interesting to see. This part is the cheaper stuff, and they got more expensive here, and with way more expensive up here. Thank you very much, Grid. This is very, very cool. (box thunks) The Anbernic RG353M. There was a "This Is" several months ago where Matt was excited
to show me an Anberic. And if you're not familiar, these are little like emulation handhelds. And by the time I sat down
to shoot the video with Matt, the Anbernic had died. Is it actually dead? - It's not Turning on - This thing is really cool if it wasn't just spontaneously dead right before we hit the record button. - I played with it.
- I played it, have you, what? You played with a "Mystery
Tech" item before we shot it? - [Matt] I wanted to make sure you got the full experience with it. - I wanted to make sure
that the food tasted good before you ate it, so.
(Austin laughing) (Ken laughs) - [Matt] It might be dead
'cause I played it some much, but. (laughing) - All right, all right, all right. Let's take a look, let's take a look. Okay, oh, and this is
kinda small, isn't it? Oh, that's neat, it's actually metal! - [Ken] Oh, word? - Wow. It's like very cold to the touch. Buncha stuff here, so we have a couple of, eh, slightly loose feeling sticks. You got yourself a dpad
which feels better, you've got your face buttons, which, ooh, do also feel pretty solid. Oh, we've got, wow, mini HDMI. We've got USB-C for charging, and OTG, which I assume you can
use that for video out. We've also got, oh, actually
some very clicky top buttons. Built-in rechargeable battery, only can use certified charger, the battery may explode in the fire. - [Ken] Oh, Austin knows what that's like. - What sets this apart from other ones is this can dual boot
both Android and Linux. - Oh, that's cool.
(chill smooth music) (clears throat) Might be dead. (Austin laughs) We'll be right back after
we charge the Anbernic! (bouncy electronic music) This has gotten a little
uncomfortably warm while charging, which doesn't fill me
with a lotta confidence. We're now in. So, I'm assuming that this
is loaded into Linux mode. There are also quite a
number of games here, wow. - [Matt] So, one of those SD
cards that's pre-installed is, comes with a bunch of games. - Now, I don't know what the spec of this is. ("James Bond" theme music) Oh, what is that? Oh boy, that audio is not good. - [Matt] Ooh. - Oh my God.
- Gosh. - [Austin] What in the inverted
hell are these controls? (gunfire thundering) How do I shoot? What's my shoot button? Oh, I found it, okay.
(gunfire pewing) Yikes, that was not good. All right, "Gran Turismo." The performance looks
really quite nice, actually. (engine humming) which shouldn't be a surprise, 'cause PS1 is not
incredibly difficult to run. Go, go, go, go, go,
third place, third place, third place, third place, third place, no! How did I not get that third place? Okay, that was 1/100th of a second. There's a lot of emulation tools on here, and not all of them work
as well as the others. So, I think it's one
of those things where, if you spend a little bit of time, you'll clearly be able
to understand which ROMs, and which games are gonna
run better than others, and which emulators will run. Okay, so theoretically, my
Linux OS is on this SD card, which has been removed,
which means it should boot into some flavor of Android. So, this does have a ton
(upbeat electronic music) of emulators already
installed, including Dolphin. Okay. How much is the Anbernic? - [Matt] Buying it through
Amazon, I paid 160 for this. - I think a lot of people will be very happy with this Anbernic, right? It's neat, it works fairly well, the hardware is really nice. I have some small concerns, but at the price, I can't really complain. It's cool, but it's probably not as good as the phone in your pocket, or the phone that you're
watching this video on right now. This is the Garmin eSports?
(suspicious light music) Wait, Garmin make eSports watches? How is this eSports? It doesn't tell me any reason why. It just says, "Instinct," "eSports." - [Kinsey] Use to
ST3AMUP, the E is a three, to broadcast your stress level, and heart rate to game streams. - So, that's the real move here. This is meant for streamers who want to stream your heart rate, and your stress level as
you're dying for the 17th time in a row for a "Valorant." Not that I would know
of anything about that. Okay, so this is very Garmin-y. I don't say that with any shade. I'm saying that with shade,
(upbeat rock music) a lotta shade.
(producers laughing) - [Ken] Okay, you joke,
but these Garmin watches apparently are not that bad. - Oh wow, that actually was a
very seamless, easy process. Is this actually not garbage? How tall are you? 5'9", where did it come up with that? I'm just gonna just bump up here, 6'2". - [Kinsey] Uh-huh? - Okay, apparently I'm already at 1,348 resting calories for the day, I think- - [Kinsey] Takes a
lotta energy to be 6'3". - It-
- When you're not. (laughs) - [Ken] I think that's what
we call short king energy. - Yeah, I'm 6'2" in spirit. Okay, so you're seeing live on my phone what the actual heart rate is.
(warm rock music) So, I'm gonna start by calibrating, and doing some jumping jacks, okay? Okay, so, 99, 102.
- Let's go, Matt, 102. - Okay, we're getting it up there. So, I just think while I
was actually jumping around, it couldn't get a good, accurate reading. 112, 111, okay. So, seems to be relatively
accurate, I guess. So, to properly test the eSports watch, of course, I gotta be a gamer. I gotta show my elite pro
self exactly how to do this. (box thunks) (producer laughing) I hoped this day would never come. (tense guitar music) The Tommy Hilfiger
three-in-one gaming set, with a high quality keyboard. (laughing) I can tell how bad this
is just by looking at it. Mouse and gaming headset. I heard that Linus did a video,
and he really loved this. Please tell me that this is not expensive. - [Ken] Oh, you would be wrong. - How much could they be
charging for this nonsense that they just slapped the
label on a called it a day? How much is it? - 150.
(producers laughing) - Pesos? (Ken laughing) - [Ken] Even worse for Linus that he had to pay Canadian for it. - He probably paid 7,000
Canadian dollars for this! Okay.
- Yeah, that's like 5,000 Timbits. (mouse clicking)
(tense electronic music) - Sounds like there's a
damn cathedral in here. (producers laughing)
(mouse clicking) Okay, mouse, super high quality. Let's take a look at the keyboard. This keyboard is exactly as generic as a random four dollar
keyboard on Wish should be. Like, I just,
(keyboard clicks) it doesn't even have feet. All right, let's go to the headset. How could it possibly get any worse? Is that even a USB headset? (producers laughing) It's just got USB for the RGB? (producers laughing) I have to plug in my mic, and my, aw. My USB-A is on this side, and my headphone jack's on this side, so I have to pick one or the other. - [Ken] Well, okay, plug in the USB first, I wanna see what the RGB looks like, or R, yeah, that's what I thought. - Does it look cool? (Ken laughs)
Do I look cool yet? 'Cause that's the only option. - [Ken] Yeah. - What, what do the gamers listen to? - [Kinsey] "Sea Shanty 2." - "Sea Shanty 2."
(producer laughs) You know what? Even this terrible headset
(goofy chiptune music) can't make me not appreciate
"Sea Shanty 2." (laughs) Gaming. - Yeah, these don't feel good.
(upbeat synthwave music) I just like "Sea Shanty 2" a lot. Should we try to plug in, and listen to what the mic sounds like? - What's up, gamers? Today, your buddy, Hilfiger95, is here to give you a hot tutorial on the latest and
greatest "Fortnite" hacks. - You know what, that's-
- Not actually bad. - [Ken] Yeah, that's not as criminal- - Not actually bad. - [Ken] As I thought it was gonna be. - The fact they slapped the
Tommy Hilfiger brand on it, and charge you an extra hundred dollars? (buzzer buzzes) Uh-uh. - [Ken] Man, it's for your
mom walking through Macy's, and she's shopping for Christmas. (upbeat department store music) - I would make her return it.
(record scratch) I don't want Tommy Hilfiger! I want real gamer gear that's mechanical, that's heavy,
(intense rock music) and it makes me sound
like a scuffed 12-year-old playing "Call of Duty," mom! Typical mom.