Infrastructure: it’s all around us, and
on the surface, maybe a bit mundane. But look a bit closer and you'll see there's a fascinating world Of ingenuity and engineering just below our noses. I’m Grady and this is What’s that Infrastructure,
where we divulge and discover the manmade world around us. For this first episode, I’m using some of
my own photos, but my goal for this series is to show your photos highlighting the abundance
of interesting structures, systems, and utilities that usually go unnoticed. I’ll show how you can send in your photos
at the end of the video. Today we’re talking about transportation
infrastructure, and I’ve taken some photos of things that you might find interesting. Here they are upfront if you want to take
a guess before I say what they are. This first one is an easy one - these are
some photos I took of a sidewalk. Notice the bumpy bricks on all of the ramps? These are required on sidewalk ramps in the
U.S. by the Americans with Disabilities Act, but they’re not for traction like many people
think. These are called tactile paving, and their
purpose is to help people with visual disabilities delineate the boundary between sidewalk and
road, detectable warnings for people who might not otherwise be able to identify a potential
hazard. Tactile paving isn’t just found in the U.S.
Lots of other countries have detectable warnings for all kinds of hazards, including subway
lines, steep grades, stairs, and of course, road crossings. They often have a contrasting color so they’re
easy to identify, and many use a very recognizable texture called truncated domes. This next one is a little bit tougher. This is a road sign I photographed while I
was sitting at a red light. Take a look at the bottom of the post. There’s something interesting going on there. This is a triangular slip base, one of many
types of breakaway sign post systems. In the U.S., signs located near the roadway
are required to easily break away if struck by a vehicle. A lot of people think this is a cost saving
measure, so a new sign can be easily installed without digging a new hole. But the real reason for the breakaway design
is safety. A well-anchored metal pole can be extremely
dangerous during a high-speed car accident. If an errant vehicle hits a sign that doesn’t
break away, the narrow pole can pass through most parts of a car like butter. Engineers have found that it’s much safer
for signs to easily break off when hit, getting them out of the way of the accident before
they can be a hazard. This last one is something that may only be
in Texas. I’ve never seen it in another state. This is a photo of an overpass bridge, but
notice underneath the clearance height sign, there’s some kind of galvanized bracket. This is called a bridge protective assembly. These are extremely common on bridges in Texas. Their purpose is to protect the first beam
from an over-height vehicle impact. If a truck carrying something too tall tries
to drive under a bridge, the impact can cause serious problems. Most concrete bridge beams have almost all
of their reinforcing steel at the bottom. If the reinforcement is damaged, the strength
is significantly reduced. So bridges with the highest potential to be
impacted by an overheight vehicle usually have some protection. This bracket actually hangs from above with
a layer of energy absorbing material between it and the beam. The goal is to reduce the vibration associated
with an impact to hopefully minimize the damage to the structure. After a little research, I found that Texas
is phasing out the bridge protective assembly in favor a protective wrap of carbon fiber,
which is apparently much more effective. Do the bridges in your state or country have
protection against over-height vehicle impacts. Or do you have some other piece of infrastucture
in your hometown that you think is unique or interesting. Maybe you walk by something every day and
have just always wondered what it is. I love infrastructure, and I want to show
others how interesting it can be. But, I need your help. This series will be a lot more interesting
and fun with your participation. To share a photo with me, log on to my website
at practical.engineering, click on the WTI button, and fill out the form. If I like your photo, I’ll send you a sticker,
and I just might share it on the next episode of What’s that Infrastructure. Thank you for watching, and let me know what
you think.