The G Pro Superlite is one of the best gaming mice ever, and it comes from Logitech, one of the most trusted names in computer peripherals, which got us thinking, what if you bought everything from Logitech? It might look a little something like this. So we're gonna find out where brand loyalty gets you, to the ultimate gaming setup or to a pile of overpriced trendy plastic. Starting with their G715 wireless gaming keyboard. It's got the works, wireless connectivity via Bluetooth or with their included 2.4 gigahertz dongle that docks in the back. Your choice of Logitech, which apparently means long, Hua, clicky, linear or tactile switches, full RGB backlighting and macro keys, which if you press them, they can do anything, like segue to our sponsor. The Ridge, upgrade your everyday carry with the Ridge wallet. It's RFID blocking technology protects your cars from digital theft, while it's durable materials, ensure it lasts for years to come. Click on the link below and use code Linus to save 10% off your purchase and get free shipping. One other cool thing I didn't notice before the sponsor break was that you can customize it with these interchangeable faceplates. Love to see it. Now let's make some room on this desk and check out their mouse pad. Really, we're gonna take an LTT desk pad off the desk to replace it with, fine, fine, let's do it. Wow. What'd you drop? Nothing. See you later, quality LTT merchandise. Say hello to Logitech merchandise. It's a great color. How much is this thing? It's more expensive than ours, it's $40. Huh, this is expensive, metallic ink, probably natural rubber backing material though, it's not going anywhere. All they're really missing is the stitched edge. You can't deny our setup so far looks good, I forgot to mention they included cloud wrist rest, but man, that's expensive. We spent $240 so far and that does not include the monitor. And they aren't about to get cheaper. The Logitech PowerPlay is a mouse pad slash wireless charging system that costs $120 US dollars. Though, in spite of that, I am a huge fan of this thing. This is what Apple AirPower wishes it could have grown up to be. You plug in this little module at the top, it comes with either a cloth surface or a hard surface, or you can just BYO and stick it under your existing desk pad or as we've done in the past, embed the flipping thing in your desk. Then you take this little puck, install it in your recent Logitech mouse and your mouse just continuously charges while you're gaming. Never charge, never plug in again, I flipping love these things. Of course, we're gonna need a mouse to put it in. And we're gonna need so many dongles. One fewer than you think. The PowerPlay actually has a receiver in it. Oh. So I will not need that dongle. Cool. Except I will. Oh. To get the mouse working at all and then I'll pair it to the PowerPlay later. Oh, Logitech Pro Superlight 2. I haven't actually tried this one yet. Wait, this is- Can you tell much of a difference? Where's the two? That is the two. That's the two? It just says Pro Superlight. They didn't even bother redoing the mold. No, they did redo the mold. It now goes in the other direction, but they didn't put a two on it. Yeah, I don't know. It says on the box. In all seriousness though, there are improvements over the original. It now goes to 32,000 DPI and it's just 60 grams instead of 63, a savings that will almost certainly be negated by the extra weight of the charging puck. But somehow they still increase the battery life to 90 hours. Wow. Yeah, about a 33% increase. That's great, because I'm gonna spend 33% of my time looking for this mouse on this mouse pad. How will I find it? It's a strange fate that we should pay so dear a price for something so small and light, $160, which puts our total so far up to? 510. Wow. We haven't even turned on the computer yet. We don't have a computer yet. Oh, okay, sure. I mean, let's clarify, Logitech doesn't make computers. Yeah, Logitech doesn't make computers, so that's not their fault. What they do make is chairs, which I don't have yet, but I do have this headset. This is the Pro X2 Lightspeed. Is this chair in the shot? Is... Editor, blur that. Editor, blur the chair. There's a lot to like here, though. They use their Graphene Technology 50 millimeter drivers. They have a steel headband and they have aluminum. Where's the aluminum? Somewhere. I have one of the older ones and I do like the on-ear cup controls. You've got a power button, a volume wheel with a little block so you don't accidentally hit it too often, mic mute, USB-C for charging, and a Bluetooth pairing button in case you wanna switch over to Bluetooth from the default dongle mode, which, oh, that's cool, has a three and a half millimeter jack on it. Mine's black, so it's possible it has it and I never noticed. I actually don't know. The boom mic is detachable and replaceable. They have upgraded ones and the blue audio actually sounds quite nice. This is an audio test on the Pro X2 Lightspeed. Oh, and in addition to the leatherette ear cups, they include these fabric ones that they call velour, but I think that's being very generous. About as generous as you'll be being to Logitech when you buy these because they cost, I believe, 250 US dollars? Correct. Yeah. Yeah, they do. Maybe you could give me something more affordable here for the people. Oh, mic covers for gaming head. Ha ha ha. In case that one you have on is too boring. Is this a real product? Yeah, it's 9.99 US. I mean, it's the right price. I mean, I also wash dishes with this type of fabric. There you go. Oh, that looks way better. I just spent $10 on a piece of purple foam. Well, no, you got all the colors. But what if you don't wanna listen to headphones? Oh, did you just put that on the keyboard? It's fine. I put it gently on the keyboard. Sheesh. Logitech used to be the king when it came to PC speaker setups after Klipsch pulled out of the market and so did Creative. Nowadays, now that there's no competition, yeah, this feels noticeably less robust than their older stuff, but it's something. What the heck is this? Look at this. Oh, good. Proprietary interfaces. Wait a second. The left and the right are different. Are you kidding me, Logitech? Don't do that. Just use speaker wire, guys. That way I can sub it out with any length I want. Where am I gonna find this extension? Oh, yeah. And the controls are all on the right speaker. It's got your power button, a headphone out, Bluetooth pairing, as well as volume up and down, and then a mystery button. G. Oh, that's probably for the RGB. Makes you a G gamer. Activating gamer lights. Wow. Woo! That explains the custom cable. Totally justified. Yeah, there's no port in the world that can send both an audio and RGB signal at all. It's impossible. I mean, there's this one. Well, yeah, Logitech finally made it. That's why these are so expensive. What are they worth? Well, about $200. Two hundos. Cheaper than your headset. We're at almost $1,000. Yeah, and we're not even started. Of course, most people don't wanna be tied to their desk for audio, and that's where the Ultimate Ears Hyperboom comes in. Logitech acquired these guys a number of years back, and this is their flagship Bluetooth speaker, which is rated at plus, plus, plus, plus, plus, plus, plus, plus, plus, plus, sound intensity, and a range of 45 meters with IPX4 water resistance. Wow. And if one isn't enough, you can pair two of them to the same device and play the audio through both of them. They call it party mode. I think that has a name already. It's called stereo. No. Party mode, baby. Is that max volume? What did you do? I'm pressing volume up and it's doing this. Oh, it's at max volume. You know what? If you want loud speakers, they get pretty loud. But for $450 each? Yeah. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's tough. Do we have anything really cool to pivot to? Yes. These Mevo cameras are absolutely stunning. They're crazy. What they are is they're a bunch of wireless cameras that can stream independently to a single source. So you can have multi-cam streams. They're all battery powered. Oh, super cool. Yeah. 1080p, 30 FPS. USB-C charging. And we have the iPad and stuff. Colin was showing me these to me yesterday and I was absolutely blown away by them. Wow, that's pretty cool. Boop, boop. Yeah, you don't want to point them into the light though. Boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop. And the third one is the batteries. And the lights on the front will show you who's recording. Oh, red light, super cool. So when you're doing a multi-cam stream or something, you'll be able to like know that you've switched camera angles. Yeah, so my Twitch stream could be called the red light district. Yeah. There are some caveats. While they do have native support for OBS, it supports only one camera. So if you want to do the whole switching thing, you have to use the iPad app and they're, well, they're $1,000. Next up. Before we move on, those cameras can actually run off of these devices as well. Ethernet power adapter. Okay, this kind of makes sense. If you have a PoE network switch, then you can just use the USB port here to power your camera. Yeah, and then you don't need to run off Wi-Fi. Yeah. Yeah, they're 200 US each. Huh. Can you use another USB-C dongle and just do pass through power and ethernet that way? If you don't need PoE? I don't know. I didn't test that, but this was what was on the device as an essential kit for these cameras. They are a kind of unique product. USB-C to the camera, right? That's straightforward enough. Then it can take a PoE power input, also handle networking over this jack, or take a non-PoE input and then also plug in a USB-C power source to power the camera. I don't see any reason why you couldn't use a regular dongle for this though. I think we should try it right now. I will go find a dongle. I have one in my backpack. I have one as well. Oh, perfect, okay. Let's see who can get their dongle first. The alliance is already there. It is immediately charging. So that's good. Why is this on here? What is this? Whose iPad is this? This is my personal iPad. No, thank you. It's a, they're stream overlays. Oh, I see. Well, that's very useful. Oh, that's a weird spot for you to come out of. Unfortunately, there's no obvious way to disconnect from wifi once you're connected. So we're not sure what we're on, but the good news is there's a help article we found that talks all about using ethernet only adapters or ethernet adapters with USB power delivery. So it seems like it's supported, but there are some caveats. Let's talk about these mics. I call them the microphone and the coal ball because they acquired blue. Rest in peace, blue. You dabba dee dabba died. This is an audio test on the Yeti Orb. This is an audio test on the Yeti GX. I'm kind of feeling the Orb. I like this nice little tripod stand and it kind of sits exactly where I need it. That's good. It's $90 cheaper than this one. This one is 60 and this one is 150. But before you make a decision, could I interest you in third microphone? Oh, this feels very expensive. This body is either cast or machined aluminum. Oh. XLR input, base cut and presence. This is an audio test on the Blue Sona. Whoa, look at this thing. This has got to be at least 300 US dollars. Bang on baby, 300 US. Yeah. Nice. Then you need an arm for it and an XLR interface. Better sound really good. Hey, an arm. Oh, it's coming out of a not normal arm place, but it's a nice little arm. Nice, but good job. We're gonna go with the Sona, but in an unfortunate turn of events, Logitech has no XLR interface. Fortunately, they have this accessory for the Sona, which shows you how I feel about that. Built-in cable management jobbies. This is kind of nice. It retails for 100 US normally. I've seen it as low as 40 US when Best Buy is just trying to clear them out. That's something to note about all of this stuff, by the way, is Logitech is one of those brands where there's the MSRP and then there's the P you pay. What? The P you pay? The price you pay? Price you pay. Oh gosh, okay. This is really coming together. What's our total, Eli? Our total is actually 3,860 US right now. Wait, is that with all the microphones? No, that is just with our select microphone right now. We did double up with like $900 of speaker though. Right, plus this as well. So like $1,100 of speaker. I would say they're not really $1,100 worth of speaker, but that's how much the MSRP is. Apparently Logitech actually makes a lot of different key lights. They have three different ones on their store with the smallest one here. All USB powered. It's actually got all the buttons on the back, including the power, the brightness, and the temperature of the light. And it just has a little monitor mount. Turn it on, boom. We got another key light that's the same thing, but wide. It's a wide boy. Alrighty, Logitech. Ah, Logitech Ray 6. Ow. Oh, that's like solid metal right on my toe. Yeah, it's cool. This thing's like a stow and go racing sim. So if you hit these little hooks here. Oh. You can just fold her up and then put her away for convenient storage. Oh, that's really cool actually. High wife approval factor. This arm here where the wheel sits on, you can actually just have this little lock here. So you can get in and out. Yo. Yeah. That's pretty neat. There you go. Yeah. Honestly, I think it's pretty comfortable. I would hope so. It's 300 US. It's kind of expensive. That's not that bad. Really? I think that's expensive for like fabric and some steel tubes. Yeah, but it's also specially shaped steel tubes. I guess. It seems reasonable in the grand scheme of sim racing stuff, especially if you look at how much the other stuff costs. That's true. Wheel. That's really big. That box is huge. Oh God. And then here are the foot pedals. Oh yeah. How are the foot pedals lighter than the, you think the foot pedals would be a little bit heavier because you want to have a weight on them. Well, this is going to have like the feedback force motor and stuff, right? Oh, that's good. That's going to be in there. So you got a triple pedal setup. You got your brake, you got your gas and you got your clutch. You have an adjustable load on the brake as well as swappable springs. If you want a little bit more push or a little bit less for your pedals. I am loving the lighting set up here, but what did it cost? This one was 50 US. This one is a hundred US. This one is 150 US. And this is the RGB one. Correct. It's got an RGB backing to it. So you can, you know, cast it on the wall, get the ambiance. Oh, come on. Undecided. What does that put our total at? And when are we going to take it to the next level with the Logitech GX? Carmen Miller, chair. Well, our current total without the chair. You go at him, you're just, you're crouching there. I'm not taking it. I got you. No, I don't want it. No, I got you. It's really expensive. Please don't break it. You got it? You got it? Yeah, okay. Okay. Good Lord. Okay, you're doing great. That's like the worst way to do that. Here, I'll come help you. I'll help, I'll help. I got you, I got you. Oh, Jesus. Here, have a seat. Have a seat, buddy. Thank you so much. How kind. So we were at 4,800 already. 4,100, he didn't let me finish my sentence. Ah, and this is gonna add another... 2,600 Canadian dollars. Yeah, these things are nuts. Does your butt feel like an oil prince right now? Honestly, I prefer their $1,000 chair, their Aeron chairs, but wow, it's pretty good. They do sell a cheaper Herman Miller chair, like with Logitech. It's a really good chair. I sit at one of my desks and it's lovely. The reviews are great. Yeah. Oh yeah, four and a half stars. There is one key thing missing from our setup here. First of all, how much did I spend on this, admittedly, pretty upgraded wheel since I bought my G27 back in the day? Just the wheel is 1,000 US. What? Yes, it's 1,000 US. I remember Alex talking to me about how the pricing of this thing has basically gone up and up and up. The whole kit was hundreds of dollars, including the pedals and the shifter. So the pedals are just 350 now. What do you mean just 350? You have to pay $1,000 for the wheel. I mean, on their own, they're 350. Whoa. Yeah, it's gone up a lot. And the play seat? $300. That's pretty reasonable, I think. Yeah, I think it's pretty reasonable for what you're getting. I think it's insanely overpriced. I mean, yeah, compared to like a, you know, plastic picnic chair. A lawn chair, yeah. Sure, but it's, I don't know. You sell a million lawn chairs, you sell like 20 of these. There's molding costs and stuff, you know? Okay. Yeah, and this folds up nicely, so you can tuck it away. There are more affordable ones, to be very clear, but it doesn't seem outlandish, like this $1,000 wheel. So just what you're sitting in is $1,650. So the lights just don't work when I'm in-game. They just turn off? Yeah, like watch, I'll alt-tab. This is probably a feature that we probably need to configure or something. And credit where credit's due, everything's in their software and all easily accessible and controllable. I just don't know why the lights turn off. Okay. Oh, wow. Wow, I really feel like I'm driving. The wheel feels stronger and smoother than the old ones. I think Alex may not have given them quite enough credit for the upgrades that they've made to this over the years. I think there's just that a lot of competitors just destroy them on price. Like the Moza Racing stuff is pretty good and much cheaper. I think feels more premium. Well, we've seen that pattern a lot today. Yeah. Ah! Oh, ow. Oh. That looks really aggressive. Pretty strong. Very strong compared to my old one. So credit where it's due, it's better than it used to be, but the price is just- $1,000 is a lot. Not competitive with some of the really cool stuff out there from smaller brands that focus on this stuff. Oh, good job. Oh yeah. And what if you don't want to sit at your desk? Oh yeah. The Logitech G Cloud. Okay. In all seriousness, I thought this thing was stupid when I first heard about it. I did a full review. It was, it's great. It's actually really cool. This is a totally valid alternative to something like a PS Portal because you can use the Sony app to totally stream your PlayStation games anywhere where you've got wifi. And you can also stream PC games or you can just play Android games. The only thing I really didn't like in my review of this thing was that you have to agree to 10 cents terms of service in order to use it. Cause it was done in collaboration with them. I don't know if that's the case anymore, but. Total damage. With everything that you have set up in front of you. Yes. $6,110. Not including the computer or the monitor or the desk. $6,110. It's not like anything is bad. Nope. It's just expensive. It's also surprisingly cohesive. That's true. The software does really work really well with games and integration with the lights and all the other things. So you do have that going for you. Easy Recommend, when it's on promo, gets a little tougher when it's at full price. Yeah. Reasonable conclusion? I think that's pretty fair. I think so. Also $3,000 in chairs and racing sim stuff, so. And $3,000 in Segway to our sponsor. Rocket Money. You and I both know that you're not using every streaming service you're subscribed to. Yet, they're still leeching money from your bank account. Rocket Money wants to help. They make canceling unwanted subscriptions easy. So there's no need to go digging around in a bank statement to solve the mystery of who or what is taking your money every month. One click, and just like that, you can cancel all those services that are bogging down your bank account. That means more money for your next rig upgrade. You can make that upgrade even easier with Rocket Money's smart saving systems too, where they deposit a set amount of money into your savings as often as you'd like. Even better, they can negotiate any bills that you might be overpaying for on your behalf, so you don't have to spend hours on hold listening to static, but pretends to be music. So start saving today by downloading the app for free at rocketmoney.com slash LTT, or by clicking our link down below. There's two more items we missed. They're toque and camo. I don't even know what this is. I don't think it would break much wind, but it is not thick enough to be a jacket. So what do they call it? A jacket. Okay, cool. And how much are these? The beanie is 25, the jacket is 50. Cool. If you guys enjoyed this video and you want to see more products that make more sense on promo, why don't you check out the all alien wear build? It's a good one. It's a good one. I'm in. How do I look with this over my head first? You look like Hey Arnold.