- Good morning, my friends, and welcome to an all new experience. Our wonderful sponsors Micro
Center are new and improved. Have you seen this? It's like a brand new store in here. There's a tech bar. There's your find product fast sign. This is like bigger than
the old store by itself. Today, we are going to be building
the bluest gaming PC we can, to help celebrate the launch of the brand new Tustin
Micro Center location. Or the relaunch? It's very different in here. There a lot of new things
here in this store. Not only is the actual
store itself bigger, but this is the concept
store for Micro Center. So this is the store of the future. And because of that, not only do they have a bunch
of big deals on products including these Samsung Chromebooks, which if you come in store
while they'll still last, only 50 bucks each. - [Ken] What? Whoa. (laughs)
- $180 off. - [Ken] That might be
the cheapest Chromebook I've seen at retail. - Yes, I think that's what
the kids call the door buster. Limit one per customer. You're not a customer. You're a freeloader. Look at the SSDs. (whimpers) Oh my god, Ken. Like 120 bucks. (laughs) They've got the new 4K
Apple TVs for 80 bucks and a hundred bucks. - [Ken] Wow, they're serious
about this grand opening. - We're recording to this on November 9th. So we gotta get this video up ASAP because this stuff's gonna go fast. Limit one per customer. I don't think people realize
how much is in this store, available at your friendly
local Tustin Micro Center. No, Ken, you can't take
advantage of anything. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You can't take advantage
of any of the deals. Just look. We gotta build a PC. Do you see these ceilings? I don't know where these came from. Apparently they were there the whole time. I'm scouting not only for this video, but for future episodes of BROKE vs PRO. So I know kind of what to expect. I gotta have my advantage. Look at all the filament. - [Ken] Whoa, this is
all 3D printing stuff? - I'm still lost. I actually don't know where I'm going. We're gonna get st- Look, we gotta stay focused. Not get distracted by the
deals in the new store. We found the MP3 player section. Wow, it's an actual MP3 player section. I thought they were kidding. You ready for your few Clips Sport Go. - [Ken] Those things are
actually really good though. - [Austin] Are they really? - [Ken] Yeah, they can
play like FLACs and stuff. - Look at all the UNI fans. Look at the Noctuas. The Hyper 212, look at how
many Hyper 212s they have. Look at all the fittings. Beautiful. Look at this. Dude, they've got all the new stuff. All the new 12th gen i5s, i5s, i7s, i9s. Look at this. Yo, they've got the 5600G. I haven't even see one of these yet. Okay. I'm gonna build something with
that, all right, all right. Dude, look at the lighting too. It's like they updated the store just to make our videos look better. (gasps) Oh my god. These are all 6900XTs. [Ken] Wait, these are, wait, they haven't,
- All of these are 60- - [Ken] Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a minute. What? - There's probably over a hundred 6900XTs on these shelves right now. Yup, yup, yup, yup, yup, yup, yup, yup. Dude, they've got everything. With this much stock it actually
might last a little bit, but like I haven't seen this
many graphics cards since 2017. And that brings us perfectly
to the build your own section, which I feel like we've kind of already been
walking through a little bit. So not only do they have the actual bar where they will actually
build a PC for you, but it keeps going back here. Have you seen the chassis garage? So of course the most important component when you're building the bluest gaming PC is to find the bluest case. And I think it's gonna be hard to go wrong with the O11 Dynamic in dynamic blue. So I think what we should do is we should focus on
trying to find components that are neutral color or blue, or have RGB. As if there weren't enough reasons to come in to your friendly
local Micro Center, in addition to all the crazy
deals they've got going on, is they also have a promotion right now where if you check out the
link in the description and sign up, you go in store next time, you get a coupon to get a
free 240 gig SSD for free, which as you can see there
are plenty out there. (laughs) All right, so next up we
have the Core i9 12900K, which side note, just comes
in some very cool packaging. Look at this. - [Ken] Oh, it's like a replica wafer. - I know. So this is our first time doing any kind of Intel 12th gen build. Now something I know about this, it's obviously a very powerful chip, but we also wanna make sure
that we properly cool it. So for a board, obviously we need to go
with one of the Z690s. I kind of lean toward
the black, the Carbon, 'cause I feel that's
going to fit in better with the look of the case. So one thing you should consider when you're building a 12th
gen Intel sort of build is that different boards will
support either DDR4 or DDR5. So there are advantages to both. DDR4 is cheaper, a little bit
easier to get your hands on. DDR5 will give you the best performance. And since we're going with the bluest, the ultimate Intel build, we might as well go with a
board that supports full DDR5. Let's find a GPU. - [Ken] Oh, uh, uh, no, oh! I can do it. I can do it just believe me. - [Ken] Awesome. - Yeah. - [Ken] Fix your mess,
you just moved their sign. Move it back. - Okay, fine, let me move my cart through. All right, 3060s, 3080s. I mean, dude, we can do the 3080 Ti's. Wait, let's see if we can find a 3090. 3090! - [Ken] Whoa. - [Austin] Okay, I feel
like that's the move. - [Ken] Yes.
- The Dominator Platinum. It's the black color way again,
which I think is important, but also we have the full
RGB array on the top. - [Ken] 1200 Watts. - I need a lot of power for
building the ultimate system. There's one ultimate SSD. That's the move, 980 Pro. Now we need to really focus on, oh look, they've got the
coolers right there. (laughs) All right. So big reason why I wanna
go with the Lian Li Galahad is the fact that this is going
to support the new socket on these 12th gen chips. So if you look at the motherboard, unlike Intel processors for a long time, the physical socket size is now larger, which means that older coolers, basically all coolers that exist right now will not work out of the box. So that's something to consider. Most companies are offering some upgrades, so they'll just sell you, or they'll just like ship you like the actual like
adapter plate or something to make their coolers work. This is exactly what we need, because this will allow us
to use our Galahad cooler on our LJ 1700 socket. Let's start paying
attention to the aesthetic. So this is actually our
first time doing a build with the Strimers. So these aren't totally different than something like
these sleeved extensions that we typically use. The big differences is that, these will actually give us full RGB. So essentially the cables that are running from our power supply into our graphics card. And maybe we'll see if
we can find some more, but at least we'll have
them into our graphics card will be fully RGB-fied. I think we'll be in pretty good shape to make this thing super blue. All right, my friends. It's time to get to building. I'm gonna run you over with
the cart but it's fine. - [Jared] What is? - Oh, you didn't see, you didn't see what we're building today? We're building the bluest game PC. ♪ I'm blue. ♪ - The bluest?
- [Austin] Yeah. - Like the color blue or like? - [Austin] You act like you
don't know what we're doing. (laughs) - You're, Jared, no one said act. You'll be like, no, bluest? - What the hell is the color blue? - Blue?
- I don't know what blue is. - Oh my god. So I just wanna prioritize
today getting this thing, even if we don't kill manage it very well, just like somewhat up and running. So we can then start spending time tuning and making sure that
everything is actually, gonna be functional. I also have my secret weapon, but we're gonna use that later. All right.
- Secret what? - [Austin] Don't worry about it. Okay, so. - [Ken] Oh man, that is, look at that. - Hello, welcome to tech tech potato. (Jared laughs)
- Oh Jesus. - Oh my god. - [Jared] Yeah, this is very good-looking. - [Austin] Oh wait, actually
there's a slight problem. That's a much darker blue than
I thought it was going to be. - No, it matches.
- It's fine. It's Intel blue. That's not the same, but that works fine. - [Jared] Dude, straight up. we cut part off the box and we use it. - Now, I'm actually excited. I wasn't excited before now I am. One of the other things
they don't know about, is what the actual RGB on
the motherboard looks like, but that is a very high end board. So I'm assuming that it
will be comprehensive. Oh wow, this is my first
time seeing 1700 and, - [Jared] It's pretty chunky. - Wait, what does it say? LJ 1700 and 1800. Is 1800 a thing? Did they accidentally leak the next generation of Intel processors? Intel 17th gen leaked,
confirmed right now. How do you actually take this apart? - He's gonna drop the CPU.
- Excuse me. You're wearing LTT merch. You don't get to touch anything. - [Jared] What do you mean? You're a father and you
can't open this box. - You're imbued by the power of Linus. Oh my god, Jared. - I'm a supporter, very comfortable. (all laughing) - What is wrong with you?
- Very comfortable. - Oh my god. Would I have to start making merch, just so you stop wearing this? So this is the Core i9 12900 K. Do you wanna do the honors? I feel like you're ready. - Should we look up a
video on how 1200 works? - [Austin] No, no. We're supposed to be making the video on teaching people how to do this. - We're experts. We know what we're doing. - [Ken] It's our first and last time. (all laugh) - [Jared] I do not like how our laughs were
perfectly synced. (laughs) - [Austin] Do you even read the manual? - [Jared] Why would I? - [Ken] Do you read the manual? - No, I read anandtech.com. - Look at this. This is some next level shot right here. - [Austin] This is the POV. - Some X games stuff. - This carbon fiber looks absolutely sick. What I've never seen
before is this PCI slot. It actually has two sides
to the thermal pads. So if you're using something,
which actually to be fair, the 980 Pro is not super inefficient, but if you're using a
super power hungry SSD. Oops. Okay. It'll keep it cool on
both sides, which is nice. This thermal pad feels like slime. - [Ken] That's every thermal pad. - Why didn't you
immediately go to sniff it? That is not the appropriate response when something is slimy. - So for the Strimers. I always hate saying the word strimmer. - [Jared] I thought it was strymer. - Is it strymer not strimmer? - Well that's what I
always pronounce it as. - Oh god. Strimer, it is strimmer. - Yeah but, do we trust Bitwit? I think that question
you had in the beginning was a very good question.
- I trust Bitwit implicitly. - Let's call Linus. - [Ken] It's gotta be
something Canadian line. - We've got to get that Canadian accent. - Oh, it's this strimmer,
ey, hardy-har-har. I'm Linus. - [Ken] These are RGB cables in essence, but because they have to run light, they're also very, very stiff. So doing the cable runs will require a little bit of finesse. Three of them.
- Holy. It's two. - [Ken & Jared] What? - MSI, thank you for not
adding five more eight pins. - [Jared] What? - So that actually is going
to make our cable runs easier, 'cause we only need to
run two of the Strimers. I mean actually we need to run four. - Yes.
- Oh you have. - [Jared] Wait four? - So we're trying to build
the bluest gaming PC, right? We've got an Intel processor, blue case, but also we have to acknowledge that we're using a team
green graphics card NVIDIA graphics card, which doesn't seem fair. It doesn't really seem
like the way to do it. So I would propose we
build the RGB gaming PC, Intel blue team processor, Nvidia green team graphics card, and an AMD blue graphics card. - [Ken] Oh this. Oh my. (Austin laughs) - [Austin] Look. It's blue.
- So wait. We're using team red in
order to get blue in our PC. That doesn't just?
- Okay but no, no. But okay, hear me out, hear me out. - [Austin] It's great. It's great. - [Ken] Yo, come around
here, come around here. Yo, look, look.
- Look at the blue. - [Ken] That actually. - [Jared] Oh, yo, wait a minute. - [Ken] Yeah, okay, maybe
we might be on to something. - Is it strictly necessary? Probably not. Is it gonna give us some headaches in installing both AMD and Nvidia drivers in the same system? Maybe? But it's the bluest graphics card that I've ever seen in my life. And so we'll use it for 3D
video model render gaming and then we'll use the
3090 for everything. How's it going? - Oh, uh, it's going well. I'm trying to hook up
all of these span cables and this is actually kind of, what did I? Did I did I break it? So the cool thing about
these Lian Li UNI fans is that they just kind of
nest together like this, which not only just makes
it really convenient to mount them into a case, but also you can daisy
chain all the cabling and connect them onto the included hub, if you buy the set of them. So this is probably the least
amount of cable management we'll have to do for
not only powering fans, but also doing RGB. - [Austin] As of right now, we're gonna be using the
Strimers for our PCI power, but we're gonna use these blue extensions, which also are a very nice shade of blue for our 20+4 pin and our CPU. Is this your first time
applying thermal paste? You've done this before. - What's thermal paste? - [Austin] X is the move, especially since it's the bigger chip, we wanna do X it. Okay, well that corner is
the hot corner anyways. It's fine. - [Ken] Poor guy's worried
about the comments. - [Austin] Yeah, that was
the force course, see. Okay. Actually, no, no, no. That is fine. That is fine. The thing is when you put
the thing on the thing, it goes squish out like the thing. - Those were the words of professionals, ladies and gentlemen. - So we are making progress. We have our Carbon board installed. We have the SSD installed. We have our two DIMMs. We have our cooler. We have the actual radiator installed and we're starting to put
together our cable management, which we still dunno exactly
if we have the right cables. But I think, we almost gonna have to start
plugging things in to see. But the good thing is we
can start installing things like our graphics card. (Jared whispers) Stop whispering into the mic, Jared. (Jared laughs)
All right. There we go. That blue looks really sick, I mean. - [Jared] I think AMD did Intel blue better than Intel did. - You know what? Facts, bad things may
happen, but it's fine. We didn't say we're going
to build the best PC. We're just going to build the bluest one. ♪ I'm blue, da ba dee da ba di. ♪ ("Blue Da Ba Dee") - All right, let's just get to work. - So today we start off day two with a little bit of a problem. So we spent a lot of yesterday, and a lot of this morning
trying to figure out our RGB situation. Now, as you guys remember, we're trying to build the
bluest PC possible, which- - [Austin] I'm literally
wearing blue for that reason. - Yes, Austin is wearing his blue shirt. The only things that we
can't get blue are the RGBs. Now-
- What, you mean everything? (Austin laughs)
- I know. Yes. We have our MSI motherboard
here and it works totally fine. We have Windows 11 up and running. We ran some apps. We were doing some benchmarks. Everything works totally well, except for MSI Dragon Center, which might be having some problems with the fact that this
is just a brand new, kind of system altogether, Z690. There might be some software issues that are not allowing us to
do what we need with RGB. Most importantly, we cannot even change the
motherboard RGB to just be. - [Austin] Now I can just flip
that on and off on the board. Why I cannot do is change
it in any meaningful way. So what we're going to do is this, we're gonna swap our motherboard out. If we wanted to spend all day, we can probably find some way
of using a chain of adapters to try to get things
to talk to each other, but we have so many different things. And even if we do all that, we're likely not gonna be able to get the motherboard RGB to work. So in the interest of
building the bluest gaming PC down to my shoes. - [Ken] That we can build today. - Yes, that we can build today, we're gonna swap out the board with, thankfully we have one
other Z690 in the office. Look when it comes to
building high-end gaming PCs, ah, sometimes improvisation, improvisation, improvisation. And so my friends after
what was a very long day, the PC is almost done. And I gotta say it's looking pretty blue. So we've made a lot of
modifications over the last day. I'm pretty happy with that. I mean, we haven't
finished cable management. If you look around to the backside, it is literally garbage town central, but it's fine. We'll clean that up. - There's a lot of junk in that trunk. Right now, we are working with I think,
four different RGB suites. We have our SL fans
over here, our UNI fans, that are working off of
the Lian Li software. We have our AIO and our
top three Lian Li AIO fans going into the board RGB,
which is run by RGB Fusion. Our graphics card is running
off of the MSI Center, Mystic Light system. And then we have our
RAM going in through iQ and coordinating all that was
a little bit of a nightmare. But luckily, we're only working with pretty
much two different colors or two different hues. - [Austin] Okay I think it's time, for a montage. And then we'll explain
how the PC actually works. - [Ken] Hell, yeah. - [Austin] That's the
beginning of the montage, is hell yeah? Can you give a little more energy? Let's do it one more time. One more time. (clears throat) (Ken screams) (electronic music begins) (Ken screams)
(electronic music continues) (Ken screams) - Behold my friends, the bluest
gaming PC we've done yet. Not that we've ever tried
to do this in the past. One of the big things I wanna talk about, is the processor that we used. This is the first time we built a system with the brand new 12th
generation Intel Core processors. There are some pros and
cons to this approach. The pro is that this is
pretty much the best gaming and sort of overall sort of
media encoding processor, that is anything short of
like a Xeon or a Threadripper. You have eight performance
cores which are hyper-threaded, as well as eight efficiency cores for a total of 16 legit
cores and 24 total threads. That's, while certainly
does not come cheap, does deliver a lot of performance, but it is a little bit more complicated than just going for straight Core i9, slap it in there and call it a day. On the surface Core i9s, i7s, and i5s, they'll have more chips
coming later next year, or early next year that
don't have overclocking, the little bit more budget-friendly stuff. They're very powerful, and yet they're very power hungry. Generally speaking it is
going to be more efficient when you actually load it up with games and 3D rendering application. Now specifically for this
system with the Core i9, what we could've gotten away, with something like maybe
a 240 millimeter radiator, much below that you can start
running into throttling. You need a lot of cooling to keep one of these processors running, especially considering that
you're gonna throw something like a 3070, 3080, or 3090 in the system. It can get toasted. The other side is price. So we opted to eventually
go with the Core i9 paired with DDR4 memory. Now for the maximum performance, we would've gone with the DDR5 board as well as DDR5 RAM. That's certainly great if
you've got the money for it, but what is a little bit harder to compare is if you're looking at AMD versus Intel. The Intel chips might be roughly
the same price as the AMD, but the boards are very expensive
on Intel for the moment, 'cause it's just come out. And you also have to spend a lot of money to get that DDR5 memory. Inside this blue system though, I am very happy with how it came out. Not only does it have
plenty of performance to run the very many RGB programs we have. And of course the world's
greatest web browser, our channel sponsor Opera. I mean, you've seen this wallpaper, right? I mean, clearly you need the
most powerful PC in the world to gaze at this beauty,
look in the description. But of course, thank you
very much to Micro Center for sponsoring this video. If you wanna go check
out the new Tustin store, they have tons of deals going on over the next couple of weeks. And if you wanna know
about any of the components that we've used for this build, billings will be in the description. Now if you, excuse me, I'm gonna go back to Tustin
and move in permanently. That's it? That's the joke I live
in Micro Center now. I'm not even kidding. I'm sorry, honey, that you
had to find out this way, but you just don't have the RGB I need.