- The Eluktronic's liquid
propulsion package. Really? What a let down. I am so disappointed right now. Over the years, we've seen
tons of finished products with obvious oversights. (upbeat music) And a couple of months ago, we had one such product arrive the Eluktronic's liquid
propulsion package. It was promising, but there were a ton of small
problems that needed fixing. And apparently they have all been fixed which raises a few questions. One, should we give them another chance? - [Crowd] Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Two. Should they have
saved themselves some trouble by just sending us the
prototypes in the first place - [Man] Definitely - Thank you. And number three, should
brands give us even more money in exchange for sponsor
reads like this one? Definitely. This video
is brought to you by- - Hetzner, for a limited
time, Hetzner online is offering all ax dedicated route servers with AMD rise and CPUs, no setup fee configure yours today
using the link below. (upbeat music) - Eluktronics doesn't
want me to take it apart until after I've tested it. Well, did you already test it Alex? Do I have to worry about that? 1, 2, 3, hup! - [Alex] Geez. - What is all this stuff? Okay. We got the LPP G1. That's our liquid propulsion package. They sent over some peripherals. I actually like their
little warranty card thing. They say, "Hey, warranty is
only in the US" which does suck but they also clearly explain why because they don't have the parts and the facilities available
to service them elsewhere. So like, you're gonna have to ship it back to the US if it comes to that. Okay. Fair enough. The star of the show is of course the liquid propulsion package an external water cooling
unit that is designed Here we go, to make the
Eluktronics Prometheus 17, faster, quieter and cooler. - [Alex] They said not to open it - What? Well, I can open this. - [Alex] No, they said not
until you've done the testing. - Oh, okay. The problem is that last time around they did manage to make
it both cooler and faster but it actually came at
the expense of both noise and ease of use. The pump and fan were super loud in here. And these fittings at
the back would just leak. When you unplugged the
external liquid cooling system did you never see that clip, David? - [David] No. - [Alex] They might still do that. - Oh, they might still, oh my God. I thought you said they fixed stuff. - [Alex] They fixed
stuff, but I don't know if they fixed all of it. - I admire, but I don't
envy the small one person band content creators out there. It's like, "Hey, is all
my pre-testing done?" Yep. Yes, love my team. Not just Alex. He's just the closest one right now. - [Alex] I'm physically
closer than him Linus. - That's true, actually,
David I'm pretty sure I gave you some love earlier today though. Alex contributes nearly nothing
to our production values. No offense, Alex - [Alex] What? - [David] Wow. - [Alex] I do sometimes. - I mean, jankiness is
sort of a production value. - That's not fair. - The sickness of this
laptop was kind of undermined a little bit last time by
the kludgy cooling solution that didn't work very well. It's really cool. Our power goes into the
external cooler and then there's a pass through to
the back of the laptop. That way both devices are powered off of a single wall outlet - That wasn't on the last one. - Yeah, see, it looks like
a little like replacement plastic do dad but it
doesn't have any screw holes. So I have no idea what
it's supposed to do. And you told me I'm not allowed to open it but look how tempting this is. Shouldn't I open it. He wants to open it. Yeah. This is way better. The fill part at the top on the old unit was so loose
and it just had a hole. So if you accidentally
knock this thing over or your cat knocks this over, boom puddle of water, Digi laptop,
Gigi, external cooler. You're done. Ah, look at that. Just like that. Okay. Quick release fittings. And then it pops off like that. One of our big problems on the last one was that the water left in the
laptop would just leak out. I hope they fixed that, but quite frankly I do not see any mechanism to address it. - [Alex] Hmm, did they give us any way to like add the water? - Yeah. They gave us this funnel. - [Alex] Oh wow. That's almost worse that
syringe they had last time. - Yeah, if I don't leak any of this it will be a Christmas miracle. - [David] Shall we move it
further from Eluktronics? - Well, that was actually pretty good. Oh I just squirted into it. It seems to be in standby. You see this, David? How it's
kind of flashing like that. - [David] Yep. - 'Cause core temperatures
are like 40 degrees. I would not expect that
with liquid. Hello? - [Alex] Oh, you're
spilling you're spilling. - Oh okay. Oh, oh, oh. It's gooping out the front, okay. Well that was an issue we
had last time too, wasn't it? That it was possible to like overfill it - [David] There's a little
indicator on the front. - Oh, Eluktronics really doesn't
seem to be able to figure out which way is the front and which way is the back on this thing? You got the tubes coming out the front. This is where the visual
fill indicator is. This is where the power button is. But then this goes into
the back of the lap. Like, is it supposed to sit way back here? Who has a desk that deep? Like I would wanna kind of here. Okay. Liquid propulsion package control. Inject liquid don't use tap water. Yep. Okay. - Also do not use cryo fuel. Apparently some of the plastics
in there will embrittle and break if you do that, so don't - Wait a minute. The second I paired via
Bluetooth, it got silent. Either, it's way better or it's way worse. Oh, here we go. Quiet please. I said, sh these are cute. It's quieter than it was last time. - It's not quiet. - Did they tell us it
was going to be quiet? - Yeah. - Maybe I'll give it a little, you know let's see if the LED
control works this time. I wouldn't describe it as
the world's brightest LED. It's very dim. These menus are hilarious. Your path you must decide. Overclocking may cause system instability, please adjust parameters carefully. - That's your path, you must decide? For the processor we're just
gonna drag it to 140, right? - [Alex] Yeah. Why not? - And then for our core and
memory clock offset for the GPU they actually provide, look
at that, little guidance. So they'll tell you, yeah you can do about 150 and 1,000 megahertz. It's still a little on the loud side but it is definitely
better than last time. We're sitting here at like
20% CPU load, 30% CPU load launching programs, core
temperatures like 35 to 45 degrees. Love to see that. Remember this is a 3080TI and it's sitting at 32 degrees at idle, well, 3080TI mobile it's
limited in terms of its TDP. And it simply cannot be unlocked. So you got 14 core up
to 64 gigs of memory, RTX 3080TI mobile. And like, look at it. Obviously that hardware is not gonna run to its full potential. When you don't have the
external liquid cooling hooked up, like, look how
fricking thin this thing is. But man having the option
to have most of that performance on air when
you're on the go and all of it when you hook up the
external water cooling unit that is a lot of times by
extreme frames per second. I mean if you told me
a laptop is gonna run the 4k extreme preset even just
a few years ago, like this. - Yeah. Now do you wanna
know something kind of funny? - Sure. I like funny. - We recently had a sponsor
project that fell through. - Oh really? - That had the same specs as this laptop because it was too slow. And we were like, that's embarrassing. We're not gonna name in shame
because that would be rude. But it did have fairly similar performance to this out of the box,
just on air cooling. And it was pretty similar in size. It had slightly worse performance and it was slightly thinner. - Okay, and we rejected
the sponsorship just because we thought it was stupid that the specs were so high
and it was so expensive but the real world performance was so low. - Yes, but this allows you to, you know, have a laptop that's like this
with this kind of hardware and it's not stupid. - Right. I mean, it's a little stupid. - It's a little stupid,
but it's not exactly the same performance as a
3070TI or in many cases. - Oh, I see what I'm looking at here. This thing had a 3080TI and a 12900H and it was getting beat
or tied by an R9 6900 HS and a 3070TI. - Yeah. - That's embarrassing. - It is. Yeah. - I feel like even though
we've made this video already where we talked about how
laptop specs are just completely misleading now but I
feel like we could do it once every six months
and it would still be really valuable information
for the consumer. - Well and also, it depends
so much now cause like if you have the same cooler
that you had three years ago it was fine then. Now you need a vapor
chamber or you're going to get destroyed by alien wear and ACEs. - Yeah. Oh - [Alex] That's a clean
800 point improvement. - That's outstanding. That's that's more than 10% better. And we haven't even tried to
tune the over clocking dials past what Eluktronics recommended. This is that this is the safe settings. I love it. Maximum temps on any CPU
core 81 degrees Celsius. - [Alex] Yeah. So that's a 13.4% increase. - And our GPU topped out at 55
with the hotspot hitting 64. That's outstanding. Hopefully this man is to launch here. The thing is when you're
over clocking a laptop there's a lot more at
play than just cooling. Even if you've got adequate cooling and the Silicon was capable of it. You gotta think about the power delivery. The entire power budget for
this device is dictated by this little AC to DC adapter right here. And generally speaking, their board designs are
much more space constrained than they would be on a
desktop where the board of an RTX 3080TI might
actually be a similar size to the entire
motherboard of this laptop. Like we've seen some big 3080TI's. - [Alex] Oh yeah. - I am satisfied with the
noise level of this thing given that it is running
performance benchmarks right now. I think that what I would
wanna see if Eluktronics wants to take it to the
next level is intelligent fan and pump control where if
I'm idling, it just turns off. And maybe it has an indicator
to say, "Hey, I'm in standby." And when you actually do
something and you need cooling I'm ready to go. But I'd like it to turn
off when I'm idling because this thing was
actually super quiet until the pump kicked in. Right as we're sitting here making a video about how we think products
could really be better. If brands consulted with
us before they released the darn thing, we got a
consulting opportunity in my inbox from a major hardware brand. For a product that is very interesting. And that we could probably
provide really great feedback on. - Yeah. - The question is,
should we do consulting? - 'Cause there is one thing
that making this video allowed Eluktronics competitors to do. Just let me get that for a second. - Ooh man. And the plot thickens. Wait, what you've got did you really just pull
out a competing device? - Yeah. - Look how red he is.
Eluktronics had no idea. Look at the color of his face. It's red than the hat, which
you can get a LTT store - Eluktronics actually knows.
I had a talk with them. - Oh did you? - There it is. - Wait. - [David] No way. - Holy (beep). Oh wait, what. Did they buy it from Eluktronics ? Did they completely clone it? - No, they were in parallel working with the same manufacturer and were like, oh (beep), we have all these problems. - That's the thing. Product development is crazy expensive. I guarantee you that every
one of these plastic molds every single piece of this
was at least a few grand. Okay. And probably more, probably
closer to five, 10 grand. You gotta sell a lot of
freaking little external water cooling units to make
up that initial outlay. So the more brands that
you can partner with, to help share that
production cost the better. As long as they don't find out. 68 30 our score is
officially legendary, Alex. - Damn, oh wait, did we get- - Look at this curve showing
results from the same hardware? See ya, (beep) later look at this. This is us. - Can you hit compare results online? Like what percentage are we? - That's incredible. And you know what? This just does such a great
job of illustrating what we're talking about because with
mobile devices, right? These are mobile products. If anyone is not getting the
performance we're getting it means they're getting
less than what this hardware is capable of. So they're being hamstrung
by power delivery. They're being hamstrung by cooling. They're being hamstrung
by profiles that are set by the manufacturer. And you can see on the same damn hardware you've got people getting
scores that are literally 30 40% lower than what is capable of. And to be clear, I'm not saying that every device should
be two inches thick - Every device with a 3080TI should. - And he's not wrong because
it actually does need that cooling in order to
reach his full potential. Except this one doesn't - Do you not wanna
check out the other one. - I do wanna check out the other one. I'm just look, I have too
many things to be excited about right now. I can't believe you totally
blindsided me with this. I love it. It's thicker, but that makes
sense because you're gonna need to have at least some
air cooling in it for when you're not running water, but there it is. That's the same external
water cooling thing. - In fairness, Eluktronics
and XMG don't really compete. XMG's in Germany. If you're in Europe, you buy from them. - We are better than 59% of all results submitted to 3dmark.com. That is absolutely outstanding
that we have completely left behind just about
every machine in the world running this hardware. All we need is another
couple hundred points to be the world record for this hardware. - Now Eluktronics does have one other little thing that we can do. They worked with prima
mod to unlock the bios. So you can actually go in
and properly tweak the stuff. - DGP only that might help. - Oh Yeah. - We weren't actually running
on the native display. I bet we're gonna beat. - Oh yeah. - We might actually beat it. - I'm surprised because
in their software stuff it said that it was dedicated GPU. - While this runs, we
identified one of the reasons that you might not wanna
show early hardware especially to review channels it could allow your competitors
to snip you on an idea with that said, we don't
believe that's the main reason because if your competitors
could clone your product and or beat you in such a short amount of time you probably weren't
dusting for success anyway. The real reason you might not wanna send out prototypes is that
well they're prototypes. Typically the fit and finish
is pretty crap because a lot of the work is done by hand,
which means a couple of things. One the cost of each of
those prototypes compared to what that same unit might cost in mass production is much higher. And two, there could be
weird errors that could give people a really wrong idea
about the finished product. For instance, here are two
fairly late stage prototypes of our screwdriver. This one was supposed to be orange but as you can see, it is in fact red. So if you guys are seeing orange right now your monitors color calibration way off. Now our wrong color, not a huge deal. I'd be happy to send a screwdriver. That's just slightly the wrong color to someone like a tool reviewer. But this one here we made a large change
to our ratchet mechanism which involved changing the
direction of the ratchet. And although it works great,
if we had sent this one to a reviewer, we would've
been absolutely slayed. And here's why, oh, it's locked. It managed to both slip
at, oh, it's locked. Don't worry we have that fixed now There's also the fact that due to the cost and the handmade
nature of these things you usually only have a couple of them lying around to
give you guys some idea. A prototype of our screwdriver
is gonna cost us somewhere in the neighborhood of 200 to $300. I mean, given that our retail
price is gonna be about $70. Yeah, it's not gonna be very sustainable if they actually cost that
much as for the backpack every sample, the backpack
costs about five, $600. So with that said, I'm very
happy then that Eluktronics sent us an early sample and
is finally letting us see just how far we can push this thing. There's one more thing to check Alex. - [Alex] What? - Whether the water just
drains out the back. - [Alex] Oh yeah. Okay. You guys ready? This is the big moment they did not. Okay My laptop made a little piddle. I will say though, that
these seal a lot better now. No, there's a hole. Oh my God. No, they're totally designed
to like allow the water out. Okay. Well, that's interesting. That would prevent
pressure from building up if it was still full of
water and it heated up and it would prevent it from
like gushing out at some point. So that's good. - [Alex] I guess so. - In conclusion, I'm really
pleased that Eluktronics sent this to us early
and allowed us to be part of the product development process. I think they ended up
with a better product at the end of the day. They weren't able to fix
everything that we were unhappy with about it, but it's a way
more compelling offering now because we can say without compromise, this is the fastest gaming laptop that we've ever laid our hands on. And all it costs you is this
extra liquid propulsion package and a little bit of extra noise at idle. A lot better than where we started. With that said, it's clear
that there are challenges for manufacturers when it comes to sharing information with us early and the whole field of
consulting for the same manufacturers whose products
we're supposed to be covering is fraught with potential
conflicts of interest. So let us know your thoughts. Should we do more stuff like this where we're looking at products early? Do you guys want stuff to just be better? Would you trust us to
still cover something that we actually consulted on? I have no idea. These are very unchartered waters for us. How do uncharted waters? Ugh. Hey David Squarespace, if you're looking at creating and sharing your own content
online, give Squarespace a try. Squarespace is the all in one platform for building a top tier website and growing your brand
online, you can upload or embed your video
library and organize it in one of Squarespace's
best in class templates to explore the new ways that
you can monetize your content. You can both display
your social media content and push website content
out to your channels. And with their members areas you can unlock a whole new revenue stream for your videos by posting
exclusive content behind either a subscription or a one time fee and Squarespace analytics
and insights ensure that you are optimizing your
website every step of the way. So don't wait, go to squarespace.com/LTT and get 10% off today. If you guys enjoyed this video, check out the one where Alex and I overclocked an Alienware. Remember that one? - Yeah. That was good. - Yeah. It was pretty dumb. Sub zero.
(electronic music)