I've got a cute little mathematical fact for you which you might like. Every positive integer can be written as the sum of three palindrome numbers. And I've learned that cute little mathematical fact from this paper. A palindrome number is something we have talked about before, it's a number that's the same forwards and backwards. As an example, something like 121 or 937,739 would be a palindrome number, they go forwards and backwards. This paper states that any positive integer can be written as the sum of three palindrome numbers. And just to show you, let's do an example. So I actually set brady up for this, we did an example in advance. I asked you for a significant number. I was hoping for your bank details or something like that, but you gave me a date. And actually I was quite surprised that you gave me this date. I like it, I like it a lot. You gave me this date which was 30 04 1777. I had to ask you what that date was and you told me it was Gauss' birthday! Gauss, one of our great mathematicians, I'm finally converting you Brady. You wouldn't have said that seven years ago. So let's, let's do this. We're gonna write this number, we just treat it as a number. We're gonna write it as the sum of three palindrome numbers just to give you the idea. 20100102 plus, the next number will be, 9305039. And the third number will be 636636. Each one of those is a palindrome number, forwards and backwards, they are the same. And if you add them up you get our target number here at the top. The thing is, the reason I didn't do this live is because in this paper it explains how to do it which involves 40 pages of algorithms and special cases. So if you want to learn how to do this, great, go for it - but you're going to have to memorise 40 pages of special algorithms. So I didn't do that, what I did do is I used a website that was made by a friend of mine, so, Christian Lawson-Perfect made a website so that you can try this out for yourself. And you can enter any number you want and it's going to give you the three palindrome numbers, as described by the algorithms in this paper. Let's do an example here, I'm going to enter the first few digits of pi: 3141592. The website will run these algorithms for us so that I can write it out for us. So we've got 2200022 plus 926629 plus, and here's our third number, 14941. Palindrome numbers, three of them, and if you add them up you get our target number. The paper guarantees that you can always do this. You can do this in any base as well. This is not just base 10. So the paper actually proved it for any base, in fact the paper proved it for any base greater than 5. And the small bases; 2, 3 and 4, that was done by someone else in a different paper. But it's kind of unsatisfying when I'm saying these algorithms exist, and I'm not even showing you them. So I thought I would show you one of them. I'll do an example with the algorithm as explained in the paper. So let's do the example I've just done here with the first few digits of pi, and we'll see how it works out according to the paper. Ok, that's our target. So that's our, that's our n, let's call it n that's our number. We're going to create three palindrome numbers. I'm going to call them x, y and z. If you use the paper each number is categorised into a type. So you're gonna have to find out what type of number this is, so you go through the paper and you look it up. And if you do that, it's called a type A3 number. So this is Type A3. And that means you have a 1 in the second place, it means the two ends are different, and it means the first digit is greater than 2. So with those conditions that's called a type A3 number. And then if you look at the paper it tells you how to start off the three palindrome numbers. And it tells you that the first number is going to start with a 2, it's going to be one less. The first digit will be one less than the first digit of your target. Your second palindrome number is going to start with a 9, here, in the second column. And that's always going to be true in this type of number, A3. And the third palindrome number is going to start with a 1. And that has come from the difference between the two ends of the target number. So we're starting with a 1. Now you have to use the paper and look up which algorithm to use, 'cause there's a whole bunch of algorithms to use. This is actually algorithm 1. So let's use algorithm 1 to complete these palindrome numbers. For free, you automatically get the last digits - because they're palindromes. So if it starts with a 2 it ends with a 2. Here, if it starts with a 9, it ends with a 9. Starts with a 1 here, ends with a 1 here. And does this add up? It looks like it does. I've got 1 plus 9 plus 2 would give me a 2 here, and I carry a 1 - actually I might write that down. I'll put a carry of 1, I'll have a carry row. Also if you use this algorithm, it tells you to put in the first number right in the middle, which if I get, get the middle of this, so it must be there. It puts, it tells you to put a 0 right there in the middle. (Brady: It's like you're doing a sudoku) It is a bit like a Sudoku, yeah. If you look up the algorithms in the paper they're really mind-bending, you're there like, what's going on now? They're doing this, they're doing that - because they're explaining every step in really particular mathematical language. Especially because they're trying to do it so that you can do it for any base as well. But this, what I'm doing, it's kind of like a Sudoku. That's kind of the gist of it. So we've got our gap to fill in the second column. I want a 1 up there. Let's just fill it with a 2. Then I would have 9 plus 2, would give me 11. There'd be a 1 there, there would be a carrier 1, and that's good news. Because that means that column, that first column, adds up nicely. And for that second column we don't want to carry, because then it wouldn't work. Let's put a 0 here for the carry. Is there anything else we can discover? Well automatically you have a 2 over there, which puts a 2 over there as well. Now at this point, I think it gets a little bit difficult. I think for this digit here, the second digit of the second palindrome, I think we're going to have a choice for this. Now the algorithm tells you what to put in, so I'll just follow the algorithm. I think you could perhaps have a choice. But the algorithm tells you to put a 2 in that position. If you get a 2 over there you automatically get a 2 over here. So maybe we can complete this column now - we want a 9. I've got a carrier 1. I've got a 2 and a 2, so I must need a 4 here. And the next carry would be a zero down here, I believe. Automatically you get a 4 over there. For this column, let's see - I want a 4. I've got most of it. Depends what the carry number is down here. I'm going to assume, and this is what the paper tells you to do, it tells you to assume it's a 1. And if it's, if it's not a 1 you're going to fix it later. That means if I add that column up, I'll need a 0 in that position so that adds up to 4. And automatically you get a 0 in that position; we've completed the first palindrome. Now what's missing? Well, we've got this missing digit here. The paper does tell you to put in a carry of 1 if you don't know, so we say that's a carry of 1. We want this to add up. Well we've got 5 - we want a 1 so we're going to have to put in a 6 there. And then automatically a 6 there. And that completes the second palindrome number. And now we just want, got one last digit to fill in. So we want to fill in this last column, so we need a 5. I've got a 6, I've got a carry of 0, so that must be a 9 right there. That fills in the last palindrome number. And you should double-check that it works out, but in this case, we've been lucky. It does work out if you add up these numbers you get our target number. These were a couple of assumptions that we made, if they were wrong we can fix it at this step. And the paper does tell you how to fix the number if you need to make an adjustment, but we have been lucky here. That completes it and that is an example of the kind of algorithms you would have to memorise if you want to do every possible number. (Brady: How many have you memorised?) I've memorised one? Which I've just done there! Hi everyone, we'd just like to say our thanks to Brilliant for supporting this episode. Brilliant is a website that I completely love. I love just browsing it. They've got lots of stuff on there. Stuff that's free, you can look at any time. I particularly enjoy their problem of the week, which come at different levels of hardness. I'd recommend having a look at that one. But they've also got these great courses and lessons and quizzes which are just beautifully designed - really elegant. But also designed very cleverly to make you smarter. That's what Brilliant's all about, it's not just about doing tests and seeing what your scores are. It's about changing the way you think, changing the way you attack problems - getting you to think a little bit more outside the box. And if you enjoyed the video you just watched the Number Theory course in particular might be one for you. Go and have a look at them at brilliant.org/numberphile As I said, there's loads of stuff on the site that's free. But if you go to brilliant.org/numberphile you can actually sign up to their premium service for 20% off, and that gives you access to everything - all the good stuff. Our thanks to Brilliant for supporting this episode. [Outtakes] ...people who wrote the paper said that this was a kind of a mathematical folklore thing. So it was something that they had heard of before, and obviously if you play around with it, you can always do it, it's always true. But it hadn't been proven to be true before this - and apparently took them all these algorithms to prove every possible case.