- Hardwear. Introducing Hardwear, designed by Gavin from Microsoft. Oh, a bunch of stickers. Save as. There's no Clippy sticker, though. (Clippy dings) Not saying it's a miss. I'm just saying, Clippy's there- - [Ken] The original VTuber. - Did you say, "Clippy is
the original VTuber"? - [Matt] Don't like that. - Woo. All right. All right. All right. Okay. - Hold the back.
- Paint. - Never not creating. Also, I'm just gonna say, you see this, right? This is a small. This is about twice as big as my small- - [Ken] Wow. That's like
small when I'm in it. - Here, I'm just gonna... Be right back. - [Matt] Oh, he's gonna squanch. The noises that usually
accompany this are... Oh God.
- Jesus Christ. Did you have to do it
with that much vigor? - Ah, oh, he's popping. - Why does it take you like
five minutes to put on a shirt? - How dare you. (upbeat music) Yo. - [Matt] I didn't know
some assembly was required. (Ken laughs) - Oh, the NOGGIN Boss! Oh! Okay. I actually know what this is. "Shark Tank," right? - [Matt] This is a "Shark Tank" product. - It's just a big hat. - [Matt] It is a jumbo hat. - Oh, it's got the This Is logo on it. Oh. So if I try to put the hat on normally, it looks like my son
wearing one of my hats. All right. Now lemme put it on. (upbeat music continues) - [Ken] Oh, that's funny. (Austin laughs) It looks weirdly normal. - [Matt] It's literally just
a scaled-up baseball hat. That looks weirdly okay backwards. - [Ken] No, it does. - [Matt] How much do you
think we spent on this? - With the context that it
took six months to show up, and that it is custom
embroidered, ah, 69.99. (upbeat music continues) - It's close to $200. - Let's go. I was right. - It was like $180 (Matt laughs). - You know what? I need to keep creating, otherwise This Is is gonna run this entire
company outta business. Hello, my friends, and welcome to this next exciting item on mysterious technological inventions. I'm so glad that Jared's the
one throwing and not Ken, 'cause Ken would've absolutely
hit me directly in the neck. Integrated LED monitor for PS5. - What are the specs on this? It's probably on the back of the box. What are the specs on this?
- 15.6 inch, it's HDR, FreeSync. Wait. - [Ken] I mean, everything
that G-STORY has made is usually kinda er, but like it's fine. - [Matt] I got this
Prime shipping on Amazon. - How much was it? - Like 300 something bucks. - Ow. - I think it was like 365. I balled out on this one. - [Ken] That looks so ugly though. - [Matt] It does. - [Ken] It looks terrible. - I haven't even opened it yet. Can we please let me
do the mystery teching, and you do the mystery talking? - No, no.
- It's our show. - [Matt] When you find an item, you can do the mystery talking. - Okay. So we've looked at several of these style of products in the past. Things like the Xbox Series S has a really neat little screen that we did a video on not too long ago. This is big. Wow. - [Matt] The PS5 is big. - Yeah. Okay. So it definitely on the backside fits on like a normal PS5 side plate. I have to obviously see
what looks like on the PS5, but I mean, this looks PS5-ish. So for context, this is the
size of a standard disc PS5. Now the G-STORY, once I attach it, should theoretically pop
on something like this. That is not the same color. You see the match. I'm not sure how well that
comes across on camera. That's not the same color. - [Ken] They should almost
give you another shell at that point, to make it even. - How much is this again? - [Matt] So this was 380. - How much is the PS5 digital
edition again? Was that $400? - [Matt] 400 bucks. (Ken laughs) - Okay. Just double checking.
Just double checking. There we go. And all right, there we go. The height of style, my friends. The PS5 Pro, now available at your local
YouTube clickbait emporium. So all you need to do is
plug in the HDMI here, and then hop it over to
the 4K60 on this side, and then you need to plug
in the power adapter, which is annoying, so this is always gonna
need its own external power. - One thing that this is
doing way better already than the Xbox one, is you can just leave this on. You don't have to take this off. - Good point. - [Matt] Whereas the Xbox
one, you had to open it up, because it was covering the fans. - Yeah, there's no cooling
impact really at all here. - Which is like infinitely
better than the Xbox one. - All right my friends. It's time to fire up
this magnificent beast. So I'm gonna open it up. (PS5 beeps) No signal. Enter power saving. (upbeat music continues) I think something's supposed
to happen right about now. Oh, there you go.
- Yeah, Jared, that's why. - Jared, did you unplug the PS5 without properly shutting it down? - [Jared] I would never do such a thing. - Do you see how bright that is? That's a lotta nits, friends. So many nits that my eyes are blinded
by my desperate pleas to subscribe to the channel and ringling the dingling button, so that we can keep this entertaining, engaging,
and insightful content flowing to your YouTube subscription boxes. Thank you. - [Matt] We are at like a
terrible angle over here, and that looks perfect. - [Ken] Is that the loudest it can go? - Good question. (buttons clicking) No. That's the max volume. I mean, these are two
tiny little speakers, so it's not gonna give you that much, but- - [Matt] It sounds good. - It sounds fine. The screen looks good. For something portable, I
couldn't ask for much more. - [Ken] Like I think this screen quality is the redeeming factor in this, for sure. - No, don't do it. He ran me outta road. You saw how good I was. I gave him plenty of space. - [Matt] I think you ran
yourself off the road there. - Honestly, this
contraption is huge, heavy. You almost need like a dedicated backpack to move something like this around. But if you were looking
for a screen for your PS5, this is a solid screen, but I don't think I would actually buy it, 'cause I don't wanna take
my PS5 around with me, 'cause laptops exist. My head is getting so big now
I've caught so many items. Yes! Oh my God. The word sus didn't exist
yet, but this is a little sus. Has anyone in this room ever used a Shake Weight unironically? - [Matt] Oh yeah. Yeah. - [Austin] I like how it
doesn't say, "As seen on TV." It just says, "TV." - [Ken] Oh my God. - It's this big? Why does it need to be this big? - [Matt] For maximum Shake-Weightage. (Austin laughs) - It comes with an instructional DVD. (Austin laughs) How do I activate? Is there anything I need to do? I think it's just turn
the button on, right? - [Matt] You just go. - No, you turn it on. Wait, you really just do this. - Yeah. It's not electronic, dude. (Shake Weight rattles) (Austin inhales) - [Jared] Don't sniff it. - It smells kinda weird. This is really it? This is how you Shake Weight? - [Matt] No, you give
it a really good heft- - All right. All right. (indistinct) (upbeat music continues) (Austin roars) - [Matt] Lateral. Lateral. Lateral.
- Shaking it! I'm shaking it. Really shaking it. Woo. - [Matt] Do I need to show you
how to use the Shake Weight? - Matt, Shake Weight master. Help me rapidly sculpt my body. (Shake Weight rattling) (crew laughs) - Okay. That's actually pretty good. - You get a little. - [Ken] No, no, no, no,
no, no. Definitely not. - I am not sure that's... I'm gonna watch the DVD and
make sure that's allowed. Hello, Kinsey. - Hello. - What you got there? Is that? (package thuds) (Ken laughs) That was an incredible throw. That was an incredible throw. Inside we have? A we have-
- Yes, 6a. - It's a Google Pixel 6a. - [Matt] Hashtag team Pixel. - Hashtag sorry for the Shake Weight. - [Matt] No one should ever
apologize for the Shake Weight. - So I've taken a look at the Pixel 6, as well as the Pixel 6 XL before, and my problem with both those phones was something that's a
little more unique to me, because, well, let's just
say I'm a Flippy boy. I like small, tiny phones, and the 6a is the smallest
of the current Pixels. Automatically makes it
number one in my book. Ooh. That is a good color. That's a good color. - [Ken] Oh, that's really nice. - Ooh, wait, no. Oh, that's pleasant. - [Matt] Is it scratch and sniff? (Austin inhales) - No, it just smells. Smells like pine. I'm a huge fan of this color though. I think it looks terrific. And I like the way that Google
does the little camera bar. If you're gonna have a camera bump, at least give me one that's not gonna rock all over the table. Like it's well-balanced. Now it does have an
in-display fingerprint sensor, but the problem is, I've
been using the S22 lately, and that's honestly better than this. Now I'm curious how the
price to performance is gonna line up, because this is powered
by a Google Tensor chip, and it does have two cameras, an ultrawide and the standard wide angle. The problem, and it's not a huge problem, but it's the older camera that's from the Pixel
5, 4, 3, and 2, I think. Less than ideal. - [Ken] Google's play has
always been more software. So I think you're still gonna
get most of the benefits, just optically, it's not gonna be as good. - That's the thing, as we kind of talked
about with these phones, is they were so good. How do you get that much better? - So here, let's just get Matt and Ken. Ready, and (shutter clicks) okay. Of Kinsey looking cool. Now, if you wanna know
more about the Pixel 6a, more than Austin's quick first hands-on, Shake Weight reaction... Hello friends. I'd like to bestow upon you the Pixel 6a. Would you please make a illuminating, high-quality,
and impressive video on This Is and Denki, to explain to everyone the
pros and cons of the Pixel 6a. Can you just make- - High quality? Meh, but yeah, we'll make a video. - Okay. Thank you. Oh! How long have you been
holding on to these? These came out a while ago. - [Ken] What are they? - The 1000XM5s. - [Ken] Oh, probably a month. - These sat here for a month? I wanted to try these. I almost bought a pair. Okay. So the 1000XM5, specifically, the WH-XM5, not to be confused with
my earbuds of choice. - [Matt] The WF. - The WF-1000XM4s, these are, I would say by a lot
of tokens, the gold standard for over-ear, active noise
canceling headphones. Did I see a Denki short
on these or something? - [Ken] Wow. You watched my channel? Sony also sent me some. I unboxed mine on time- - Are you stealing my Sony friends? Nice packaging, cardboard. Although it looks premium. It's very eco. I could probably eat this
if I tried hard enough. (box bangs) - [Matt] Why would you want to? - So I, oh, wow. That is, oh, oh. And it stays squished. You squish it and it slowly fills back up. - [Matt] It's called memory foam. - It's memories of my childhood. - [Ken] What? - Ah, let's go with some Vinyl Days. (upbeat music continues) I very rarely EQ headphones
right out of the box, but that, it's a little trebly. It's a little trebly. - [Ken] I had to EQ mine as well. - [Matt] Would you say it's
giving you some treble? - So yeah. I mean, sound quality is good. A quick EQ definitely helps a lot. I'll say I'm not the target demo on these, because while the active
noise cancellation I can immediately tell is terrific, it's one of those things where for me, I don't typically use over-ear
headphones when traveling. I know that this is like the best active noise
cancellation, blah, blah, blah. This is too big. I would much rather take
my headphones, my earbuds, and leave them in my pocket. I always prefer a good
pair of wireless earbuds. (package clatters) (Austin laughs) These are the LinkBuds S. Okay, I'm excited for these. So while I think most people are probably gonna prefer
a fully wireless set of like 1000XM5s, to me, much more interested
in something like this. So these are significantly cheaper, because these are like 350 bucks. - [Ken] They're 400. - 400 United States freedom units? - [Ken] Yes- That's like 1100 Canadian rupees. - [Ken] They're still selling the M4s, so the M5s just slot above that. - So the LinkBuds S come in at $200. So it's almost kinda like these are a little bit more
expensive than AirPods Pro, and these are a little bit less expensive, but both have active noise cancellation. I think these just lack
wireless charging, right? Whereas these have it. So the problem with these is that they're big and chunky, right? These are the 1000XM4s, these are my favorite headphones, but when you put them in, not only are they a
little bulbous, but also, I don't find them to be super comfortable, which has always been my issue. Now, that being said, they're so good that I'm okay with them
being a little uncomfortable, but these, I can tell just
in my hand are lighter, and certainly a lot smaller. Wow. That's it? It feels like I have
nothing in my ear right now. That is actually, I'm
immediately impressed, just by the comfortability
and the light weight of this. Let me play with the EQ on
these a little bit as well. (upbeat music continues) Ooh. And it does pause
when you take 'em out. Okay. First impressions are good. I'd say they don't quite sound as good as the bigger brothers, but yeah, it's not maybe as quite as a rich and full of a sound. I'd say it's still 85, 90% as good, which especially considering
the price difference, I don't think is a big downside. These might just be excellent
when they go on sale, and typically all kind
of Bluetooth headphones go on sale at some point, but
I'm legitimately impressed. - [Ken] Are you gonna move though? Are you gonna switch? Isn't that the question? - I will spend some
time with the LinkBuds. They're really nice. Like very nice. So it's been a few weeks since
I've recorded this segment, and the LinkBuds S have absolutely replaced
my old headphones, to the point where I don't
think I've touched the 1000XM4s since I shot that, so thumbs-up. - [Matt] What's the next item? - What's the next item
is a great question. It's the thing I just caught, the VO-7U. - [Matt] So this is a
cool streamer microphone that solves all the problems
you didn't know you had. - [Austin] I see it's got RGB. - Your streaming setup, if it doesn't have RGB, are
you even really a gamer? - Okay. So inside we've got the manual, and actually, a lot of accessories. Wow. That's a dense microphone-
- Hefty, right? - Can you see how fast it drops? 'Cause that's how physics work, right? Can I ask how much is this? - [Matt] So that one there is 180 bucks. - Okay. Not bad for a
supposedly high-end microphone. I'm hearing a lotta handling noise. - [Ken] Pickups on the
side, like the Yeti, right? - Side, side, side. Top. No, it's top, top- Ah, okay-
- Oh, good. The way it's supposed to be. - I'm gonna get uncomfortably
close to the microphone, 'cause that's how everything sounds good. I'm gonna be using just the
regular voice recorder app for the test. It's not gonna give me the
best quality in the world, but it should be fine. All right, I'm gonna start recording now. Hello and welcome to
"Austin's Mystery Corner," where today we have a
very special guest, tech. I've got the volume all the way cranked up on the microphone right now, so you can really hear every little bit of the detail in my voice, including that little bit of
a (tongue clicks) tongue pop. - [Ken] You have to do the... (fingers scrape) - Thank you for watching this
episode of "Mystery Tech." Subscribe and ringaling
that dingaling button, so you're always kept up to date on the latest and greatest
of technological inventions.