Parabolic mirrors. So this is a particular shape -
parabola shape - and these are used to focus   signals. So they can be used in satellite dishes, 
that's why they have this shape, it's a parabola.   You can use them in listening devices, to focus 
a weak sound signal - it's used in espionage; and   then amplify the signal that you're getting. It's 
used in torches, spotlights, to focus the beam.   Really cool stuff and we're going to go through 
the maths of it, the geometry, to see how that   focusing works. Like why does it have to be a 
parabola shape to get this focusing behaviour?   All right, so big parabola, something like that. 
So let's say this is x, this is y, and my parabola   here is going to be - oh I've drawn it this way, 
so it's y squared equals 4ax is the equation. So   you might be used to it being- y equals x squared 
would be that way up; because I've rotated it. So   let's now take point in our parabola, let's call 
this point P and this is going to be a distance x   on the x-axis. This is going to be at the position 
a times t squared. Now a is important because a   here is controlling how steep the parabola is; so 
as we make a bigger these sort of become steeper   closer, and as we make a smaller these become 
narrower. So a just controls the shape so we're   covering all possible parabolas by including it. 
Of course we could just set it to 1 but let's be   general. And then t, as we increase and decrease t
we slide up and down the x-axis. Now if this is at   x equals at squared then we can work out the y 
value of this. So if y squared is 4ax then I think   that's going to mean that y can be plus or minus 
2at and there's going to be a -2at down   here. We're going to focus on the plus point. So 
they're the two points on the parabola when x is   this satisfying that equation. Now, how a parabolic 
mirror works is you have light, sound, coming in   and the parabolic shape acts to focus it onto a 
single point. So that's how you get your TV signal;   you have all these bits of the signal, they get 
focused, give you a nice strong signal; same for   listening devices, torches, whatever it might be. You 
can even use them to collect sunlight and create   a little bit of heat a bit of fire, a bit of fire if you're in the 
desert for example. I am going to claim that this   is going to go to a point on the x-axis (a,0). So a 
distance of a inside parabola - and again remember   a just controls the shape. So obviously this will 
move as the shape changes, as you would expect but   it's definitely at y value 0 so it's on the 
x-axis. So if we're going to argue that this is   the case then what this is going to mean is we're 
going to have a wave - light wave/sound wave -  coming   in horizontally and we need it to bounce like this.
Now we could have another one - say it was here like   this - coming in horizontally, hitting here and I'm 
claiming it's going to bounce to that same point.  That's what we want, that's the whole purpose of 
the parabolic mirror. All these horizontal beams   coming in, bouncing off that, and they all converge 
at the same point; amplifies your signal, gives you   your heat/your light/your sound whatever you want.
- (Brady: So that's like where you'd put maybe)   (your sensor or your receiver or-)
- Exactly that that's where your sensors or- or your your bulb in a   torch. So- because for a torch it bounces out this 
way and then you get a nice perfect horizontal   beam. So if you if you have a torch you get like a 
focused beam-
- (Oh imagine what that might look like!)   It's quite a focused beam, okay, it sort of expands 
a little bit but it's relatively focused compared   to like the light on the ceiling or you know a 
studio light that we have over here. The light   just kind of goes everywhere it's not in a focused 
beam. Because the studio light is just a load of   bulbs putting in all directions; here what we're 
doing is the bulb is pinging everything so it   comes out in this focused beam - it's how spotlights work. 
- (Where's the parabola there?)
- So the parabola   is going to be inside a bit, just inside there.
Quite hard to tell it's exactly a parabola,   but if you measured it I can guarantee you it 
would be. It's having the same the same effect.   So if we're going to show how this works 
mathematically we need to do some geometry. Because what we know from physics; and we do 
this all the time as mathematicians, we borrow   from laws of physics. We know that the light 
coming in, the angle here - and this is an angle   with the tangent to the parabola right. So we 
draw the gradient of the parabola there, put   its tangent in, we know the angle there is the 
angle there. Because it comes in and reflects at   the same angle. It might not look like it on my 
diagram - this is a sketch. So what we need to do,   what we need to show mathematically, is that this 
angle here and this angle are the same. Because   if we can show that, if we can show the angle 
coming in and coming out based on going from   a general point always to here that would prove, 
from a mathematical standpoint, that everything is   going to be focused at this point.
- (That same theta applies)
- Yes exactly, exactly. So so the angle will   change; this theta will be different to the theta 
up here, but the key thing is in both situations   - so that's- call that one theta 1 and let's call 
this one theta 2. So in both situations we know it   has to come in and go out at the same angle, 
that's just- that's the law of physics we have   to follow. But the key thing is it's coming in at 
a certain angle, bouncing out at the same one, going   to the focus - our amplifier. This one comes in at a 
different angle, bounces out at the same different   angle, but again it ends up at the same point. And 
if I had another one here it would come in, bounce   out. Every time, no matter what angle it comes in 
at, it goes out at the same one but always into the   same point.
- (Is this only for beams that are coming in at a straight line?)
- This is only beams that come   in horizontally, yes. So it is just for horizontal 
beams coming in. Now of course there's going to be   some error, there's some you know- I don't know 
what to call it, noise, in some of these signals but   this is the sort of theory behind the parabolic 
shape. It's only the parabola that will focus to   this point and this is what we're going to show. 
- (And if your target's very far away like a star or)   (something in space, for all intents and purposes 
they all are coming in at the same straight line.)   Exactly yeah, yes. So this is- it also is used 
in telescopes exactly for that. Because stars, they're so far away you need to amplify the light 
that's coming in so you have to focus it all into   the same point; so you use again parabolic mirrors 
to do that. So the way we do this is going to be   using vectors. We want to describe our positions; 
so this is the focus, our Point P, we want to be able   to describe these with vectors and construct 
an equation to argue why these two angles are   the same. So to start with we're going to assume 
they're not the same. We're going to work out this   one, so let's call this theta 2 hat and this one theta 2. 
Just to be clear but we're going to end up showing   that theta 2 hat is theta 2 where specifically 
one of them is the horizontal coming in and one   of them is going to the focus. And the key aspect 
to this is remember I introduced this parameter   t which meant there was nothing special about 
the point I picked. Because as I vary T the whole   problem just moves around; so that's where we get 
the generality and that's why we are ultimately   showing how these things work. First of all we need 
to know the tangent to the curve up here. We   fortunately have an equation; we know that y squared 
is equal to 4ax, we want to know the gradient of   P, so the gradient at that point is found by 
differentiating our function - dy/dx. So we   know the coordinates of P as well don't we, we know 
that's at squared and y is 2at. So we have to do   implicit differentiation which tells us 2y dy/dx 
equals 4a. So that's just differentiating   both sides with respect to x. And then we rearrange 
that so that tells us that dy/dx is 4a   over 2y. We want to know it at this point where 
this is x and this is y so we sum in that y value   into here. So we can say the gradient dy/dx
at the point P is 4a over 2 times the y value   there which is 2 at. 4a over 4at is 
1 over t. So the first thing to check is: is that   sensible? As I change t my gradient here changes.
So this is our gradient at this point: now as I   decrease t I'm moving closer and becomes steeper. 
Right here it's vertical, so when t is naught I've got   1 over naught, that's tending to infinity which 
is a vertical gradient. So we see that the gradient   actually gets steeper as we move in this way, and 
it's going to get flatter as I move out here. So it   does make sense that it would come out like this, 
but it's good that t is in there because we want   this to be general for any point in the diagram. 
So now we've got the gradient at the point P,   we now want to work out well what is this 
direction vector here between this line and this?   So we're trying to get theta 2. So we want the 
vector from P to our focus which is (a,0). So a vector   between those two points is just the vector here 
minus the value here. Doesn't matter whether we're   going out or in, we just need something in that 
direction. So the vector from P to that point is   simply just P minus that; so that's P subtract that,
so that vector will be- let's call it l. So we can   say l is going to be the x value, at squared minus 
a, that one minus that one and then that y value   minus that one. So this is a vector, x component y 
component, which describes this direction here. Now,   we need a vector to describe the direction of our 
tangent, so let's call that t. So the tangent vector   t: we know dy/dx is 1 over t, this is the 
change in y over the change in x. So this tells   you that every time x changes by t, y changes by 
1. That's what a gradient means basically. So if   we put every time x changes by t, y changes by 1.
So our tangent vector is given by this: (t, 1)   corresponds to this particular gradient up here. 
So what we've now got is we know the direction   here, and we know the direction here, as vectors so 
if we take the dot product of those two vectors   gives us the angle. I'm just looking, you're 
nodding like, okay if you say so Tom. Okay so let's   do that. So if we do l dot t, then by definition 
the dot product is the length of your first vector   times the length of your second vector times cos
of the angle between them - so that will be theta 2.  Because these are our two vectors, angle between 
them there it's theta 2. It could of course be   the same one up here but we're- doesn't matter for 
our purposes, it's the same angle. Right so we   sub these in. Right so, l dot t is size of l; so when 
you work out the size of a vector you square each   term, add them together and then square root. So the 
size of l is this first one squared, at squared   minus a squared, plus second one squared 4at 
squared t squared. So that is the size of l. Size of   t a bit easier thankfully, it's the square root of 
the first one squared plus the second one squared   and then we've got cos theta 2. Now of course we 
can do the dot product, we've got vectors so you   do the first components multiplied together 
added to the second two multiplied together. So that tells us that one times that one, so at
cubed minus at; plus that one times that one,   plus 2at. Equals the two square roots times cos 
theta 2. Because what we want is cos theta 2; so   if I rearrange cos theta 2 is equal to this thing - 
we've got an -at plus 2at so that gives me   an at cubed plus at on the top. And then we've 
got these things on the bottom. Now I'm going to   simplify it a little bit up here; so if we expand 
out the square, a squared t to the 4, minus two   lots of the cross term so -2 a squared 
t squared plus a squared and then plus 4 a   squared t squared. So we've got -2 lots of 
it plus 4 lots of it, so that becomes a plus   2. So we've got a squared brackets t to the four 
plus 2 t squared plus 1 in that first bracket. And   then we've got second bracket, t squared + 1.
Now this in here, this is t squared plus 1 squared.   Expand that out, t to the fourth plus two cross 
terms plus 1. So that's that. So you've got an   a squared times something else squared, we lose 
the square root. So what we finally end up with as cos theta 2 is - we've got an a factor 
here as well, an at factor at the top.   at times t squared + 1 divided by square 
root of this, so it gives us a times t squared   plus one times the square root t squared plus one. 
And now everything cancels which is lovely, cancels   cancels cancels cancels, and we're left with 
t over the square root of t squared plus one.  So we have a formula for cos of theta 2 - this 
angle. What we now need to show is that we get   the same formula for theta 2 hat and then we've 
figured it out. Yeah another piece of paper. So to work out cos of theta 2 hat here, same 
approach, let's figure out the vectors coming   in. So we've got t is one vector and the other 
one is a horizontal vector here, h. And we want   the angle between the two of them, so we want 
the dot product between t and h. So we know   what t is, we figured that one out to be (t,1). h
is a horizontal vector so that means x changes   and y doesn't so it's just (1,0), it's your 
basis vector. So when we take the dot product   t dot h is equal to that one times that 
one: t plus (1 times 0) is uh 0, add them   together. That is then equal to the size of 
t times the size of h times cos of the angle   between them which is that one - theta 2 hat. 
So so we've got t is equal to the size of this,   square root of 1 + t squared; size of h, well 
that's size 1; times cos of theta 2 hat. So we   rearrange and say so cos of theta 2 hat is t over 
square root 1 + t squared. But what did we get cos of theta 2 was? t over the square root of one 
plus t squared. So that allows us to conclude this   is the same, it's cos of theta 2, so we can take 
our cos of both sides. So in other words theta 2   is theta 2 hat which is exactly what we wanted. So 
rather than just taking my word for the terrible   sketch, we've been able to show mathematically 
using vectors using geometry the angle coming   in is the same as the angle going out, where we're 
coming in horizontal and we always bounce to the   focus. Because there was nothing special about 
the point P, I could just change the value of t   and go here. The whole working out works; so 
we've actually showing that any horizontal   ray coming in and hitting our parabolic mirror 
will always go to that central point because   these two angles are always the same, and light 
reflection or sound wave reflection means the   angle in needs to be the angle out. So that's how 
parabolic mirrors work.
- (Lovely)  This episode of Numberphile was brought to you by Jane Street,
a research based trading firm with officers   all across the globe. Go to their website and learn 
about the jobs and internships they have on offer.   If you're good with numbers or computers this 
could be the start of something very special. But check here, they also have fantastic programs 
previewing the sort of stuff they do. Two current   opportunities are these: Insight and the Wise 
programs. They're targeted at opportunities   for women, transgender and gender expansive people. 
There are lectures, game, mock trading sessions - all  sorts of hijinks. Get your applications in now. No 
matter who you are Jane Street have got something   of interest to you. Go to their website, see what's 
available, I'll put a link in the video description.