- Hey guys, this is Austin. We've taken a look at a
lot of laptops this year, but these are my absolute favorites. And huge shout out to Intel
for sponsoring this roundup. Starting out with, we
have the HP Spectre Folio. Now we very recently took a look at this and it is hands down
one of the most unique laptops I've seen all year long. First of all, we have the design. So it's made out of a hybrid
of a magnesium chassis paired with leather that's
wrapped all the way around, and it looks and feels incredibly premium. Unlike a lot of laptops, this
does have a standard hinge so you can use it just
like a standard notebook, or if you want you can
pop out the magnetically attached screen and use it here either in the Tent Mode where you
can use the touch pad, or if you want to go completely flat you have a nice little folio. Like many of the other laptops in this roundup, it is powered by an Intel Core i7
eighth-generation processor. In this case it's the 8500Y which means that not only is it completely fanless so it's thin and light,
but importantly it still does have the power to run
full fledged Windows apps. What's really cool about this is that it's an always connected PC with an
Intel modem that is built in. So with an always connected LTE setup, what this means is that you
don't have to go around and hunt for sketchy public
wifi or anything like that. It makes a big difference to
the way that you use the PC. And I do feel like this is going to be something we're seeing a lot
more in the next couple years. The biggest problem with
the Spectre Folio is price. With the maxed out
version, with the Core i7 as well as the LTE modem,
it is a full 1500 dollars. But if you want one of the most unique and coolest laptops that
you can buy right now, the Spectre Folio
definitely fits the bill. If you're looking for something a little bit more traditional, the ASUS ZenBbook S is
definitely one of my favorites. The ZenBook also has
an interesting design. So this is what ASUS calls ErgoLift. As you can see, when
you open up the screen, it gives a little bit of
a lift to the keyboard. Now this has implications for
things such as the cooling, but importantly, paired
with the awesome keyboard, this is once of my favorite
typing experiences of the year. It is so comfy to type on
this guy for long periods. This really is the sweet spot
for a thin and light laptop. You have the portability,
but you also have the power with that eighth-gen Core i7 8550U, and on top of that you have a
pair of Thunderbolt 3 ports, which means that even though it's super thin and it's super light, you can get some proper
work done on this guy. It's not perfect, especially
when you outfit it with the 4K touchscreen,
battery life is only decent, but when you put the
entire package together, this is hands-down one of my favorite ultra-portable laptops of the year. Another option is the
brand-new Razer Blade Stealth. Now, we're still well into
premium laptop territory here, but for such a thin and light form factor, we're getting a lot more performance than you'd usually expect. Inside, of course you'll find the eighth-gen Core i7 processor, but it's also backed up
by an NVIDIA MX150 GPU. Now it's not completely unheard of, but this is a pretty unique combination in such a thin and light laptop, which can not only play some decent games, maybe not on ultra settings, but importantly also has
the great build quality and the great battery life to back it up. It also has a great screen and speakers, the touchpad's awesome, and
the keyboard is really solid. The important thing here is, while it does have the
power to do some gaming, importantly you're not
sacrificing anything as an everyday laptop. Now if we really wanna
get overkill with things, we have the ASUS G703, which
I sadly don't have here, because they asked for it back. But this is hands-down the craziest laptop we've ever looked at. With a $5000 price tag,
overclocked Core i9 processor, GTX 1080, full desktop
class GPU, 64 gigs of RAM, it's got a full 1.3
terabytes of RAID SSDs, I mean this thing is
literally like a nerd's dream. As long as you're a very buff nerd who can pick up the very hefty, (laughs), I can't say it. It is not remotely practical
in any way, but come on! This is my favorite laptops of the year. How can I not include the most
ridiculous, overkill thing that we've taken a look at, well, pretty much ever on the laptop side. Next up we have everyone's
favorite laptop, the crowd favorite known
as the Apple MacBook Pro. So, this is slightly cheating, since this was actually brand-new in 2016, however, it did get a
big spec bump this year. With a six-core Intel Core i9 inside, this is a properly powerful system. Now, no, it may not be quite as powerful as that G703, but this is also something that can be picked up and
carried by normal human people, a very important trait of a laptop. It's still got some of the
best build quality in the game, and the basics are pretty much all here, with the slight exception of the keyboard which is just so-so. When you put it all together, this is one incredibly expensive machine because we do so much stuff
that is specific to MacOS, specifically with Final Cut, it means that this is actually one of my most used laptops this year, even though it might not
necessarily be my favorite. If we switch over to a slightly
more reasonable price range, we have this, the VivoBook F510UA. For just about $500, this is easily one of the best laptops
in the game right now. So one of the important things
that you should probably keep in mind, is that this is a
standard hard drive configuration for $500, but for only about $30, you can very easily
upgrade it with an SSD, and I definitely recommend it. It makes a huge difference, and it really nicely rounds
out the rest of the package. With the VivoBook, even though
it is a fairly cheap laptop, you're not really giving up a lot, and I think that's very, very
important at this price range. So you've got an eighth-gen i5 processor, a pretty impressive 1080p IPS panel, you got a good keyboard, good
touchpad, plenty of ports, there's really very little
that's wrong with this laptop, and that is super, super
impressive at the price. Okay. So I am really, really
cheating with this one, but my next choice is
the Microsoft Surface Go. Yeah, you could say this is a tablet, but the way I use it, as a tiny, awesome little Windows laptop. Even the base $400 version is built well, and you've got a decent
amount of performance thanks to the Pentium Gold processor, nothing too crazy, but it is
enough for a 10 inch laptop. On top of that, you've got a lot of the nice Surface features, including the fully adjustable kickstand, as well as the keyboard. Now, yes, if you take off the
keyboard, it's um, a tablet, so this doesn't really
quite qualify as a laptop, but I mean, you should buy the keyboard. You should put it on. It should live like this. And then it's eligible to be in my video. Look, okay, I get it,
it's not really a laptop. But I mean, the way I use this
thing is just like a laptop. It's got a touchpad, a
keyboard, and I dunno. I actually really like the Surface Go. I think it makes a lot of sense, and especially because it
has things like, I dunno, a USB-C port, something that
some of the other Surfaces could maybe take note on, this really is one of my
favorite cheap-budget devices right now, especially when
you consider just how portable and small and cool it is. Can you tell I really like the Surface Go? Say you wanna game on a budget? Well, boy have I got the deal for you? The Acer Aspire 5. This is a laptop we
actually took a look at very early in the year, and yet it has absolutely
held up all year long, and that is for good reason. This is easily my favorite recommendation if you wanna get into a
low-end gaming laptop. At $600, the spec list is impressive. You have a Core i5, eight
gigs of RAM, MX150 graphics, a 256 gig SSD, you even got nice things like a solid touchpad
and a backlit keyboard. The only real downside here is the screen, which while it is 1080,
is unfortunately not IPS. But, if you can look past that, and at $600 you kind of should, this is a very impressive gaming laptop. Considering it shares a
similar MX150 graphics setup compared to that Razer Blade Stealth, you should be able to game
at pretty decent settings, again, not Ultra, but for $600, if you wanna get into an
entry-level gaming laptop, the Acer Aspire 5 is still one of my absolute favorite things I've taken a look at this year.