- Three, two, one. So you might be wondering
why I'm throwing a PC off the roof. Well, when my buddy, Mr. Yeester, came by and wanted to test some TikTok tech hacks, things escalated quickly. But before that, I would like to test some of my own theories and
suspicions about gaming PCs, and specifically if they
gonna die on me or not. The first test is a very simple one. If you are, say, a first
time gaming PC builder, you may not remember to
put your CPU cooler on. Now, that's a bad thing,
but exactly how bad is it? I mean, what's the
worst that could happen? So, right now the system is up and running and you'll see our CPU
with the stock cooler is sitting at 29 degrees. Normally, the way this works is that this is attached to your CPU, the heat is pulled
through that thermal paste into the actual aluminum
or copper heat sink, and then the fans will
blow it away, right? But without it, you can
see we've quickly spiked from 33 to 50 degrees Celsius. Now, technically, this is
actually still with spec. Mind you, not for very long. But what will happen is that
as soon as it starts to hit toward the max temperature of the CPU, typically around 100 degrees Celsius, it will throttle back,
and if that doesn't work, the CPU will just shut itself off, or the motherboard will
tell the CPU to turn off. I will say there's a little
CPU LED which has come on, which is red now. I don't think that was there before. The motherboard knows things are not good. Wait a minute, it's leveling out. No. No. No. It's stabilized! What! This shouldn't be the way this works. We may actually need to boot the Windows. Now, mind you, as soon
as I fire up Windows, I'm gonna assume that
this is gonna collapse, but also, who knows. (Austin claps) We have Windows with no
CPU cooler whatsoever. Oh, I wanna see what my clock speeds are. Clearly, this is not gonna last but for a minute or something. We're at two gigahertz. What! There's no cooler! Core Temp is showing that we are pulling eight, nine watts on the CPU
and the actual CPU cores are sitting at 83 to 100 degrees, based on how I'm actually doing it. This might not die. Like this might just throttle itself down to the point where it's fine
with zero cooler whatsoever. I think I need to Prime95 it. This will load up your CPU 100%. Usually I use this for stress testing and we're gonna stress test all right. 1.4 gigahertz, so it's throttling. But what you're seeing right here, right, is this working exactly as intended. If your temperatures hit a certain point, the only thing the CPU can
do is turn down the voltage and turn down the clock speed, right? Which, it's exactly what it's doing. We're down to 1.3, 1.4 gigahertz. It's much better to just slow things down than to just throw the switch
and call it a day, right? This will, I hope at some point, crash and turn itself off, right? Like that's the final fail-safe. Temperature's too high, you
can't bring voltage down, it just needs to turn itself off. But with zero CPU cooler, it is able to sustain 12-13 watts of load. Mind you, it might be
at 100 degrees Celsius and at 1.4, 1.5 gigahertz,
but it's working. All right, the only thing I can think of is I'm gonna start unplugging fans now and just see if I can get
this thing to overheat. So now there is no airflow
in this whatsoever. Now, mind you, I don't think the fans before were doing that much, but now they're especially
not doing anything. We're at 1.3 gigahertz, so it is definitely throttling,
but it's still working. So I guess the myth of
do you need a CPU cooler apparently is busted. CPU coolers are optional. Go out and buy yourself a
Core i9, a Ryzen 9 7950X, don't put a cooler on it. Totally fine. The purpose of a heat sink is to pull heat away from the CPU, enabling better performance
and for it to not die, so I'm going to give it a heat blow. A heat gun. I'm gonna heat gun the CPU. All right, we're at max temperature. Is everyone ready? (heat gun whirring) Very warm, all right, I'm going to now heat gun
the CPU until it dies. Oh, it immediately dropped. Whoa, look, look, look. Immediately dropped to 0.2 gigahertz, but it didn't turn off! I'm not giving up. This is going to turn off. Come on, little guy. Just go to sleep. Yes! It finally turned off! That is one of the most insane experiments I've ever done with a PC. Now that it's all still
very, very toasty and warm, why don't we move on to what
I was originally gonna do, which is to cool it through
an alternative method. My friends, have you heard the word? All the cool kids, they
don't use air cooling. They don't use liquid cooling. They use dry ice. (ice crackling)
(buzzer beeping) So, if you wanna go cold, one of the best ways to do
that is with some dry ice. Again, do not try this
at home, but let's see how well using dry ice
works to keep my CPU cool. We have reset everything. Prime95 is back up and running and CPU is exactly where it was, which is about 100 degrees Celsius, throttled, but functioning. Now, let's add some dry ice and see if it actually
improves our performance. I think it might. All right, we're just gonna put this on. Everyone ready? (dry ice squeaking) That's the noise of the
ice when I press it down. (dry ice screeching) is it working? Yo! My CPU got up to like 2.7 gigahertz! Okay, I got a big chunk now. How's that helped my performance? It's working! We've gone up to full 100% CPU
and we're down to 82 degrees. We've solved it! I don't know what we solved,
but we solved something. We have dry ice successfully
cooling my CPU right now. We've got max clock speed, 3.7 gigahertz, which is as high as this will go. We're down to 50 degrees
Celsius, pulling 47 watts. Basically the absolute
max the CPU can push out is being dissipated through
this dry ice right now. What is going on? This is so cool! So what's funny about when
you're just using a chunk of dry ice like this,
it melts like a hole, like a square shape in the ice, so the ice is now like frozen down to it but it's actually not making contact, so my temperatures have gone back up, but it's literally like
frozen on here now. Can you see that? So it's literally a square
shape on my chunk of ice. So the only thing I can think of now is to just gently cool off my dry ice. (dry ice clunks) (Austin evil laughs) (fly buzzes) (Austin coughs) (Austin evil laughs) Now of course, not everyone
has an unlimited supply of dry ice that will need to be replaced every two to five minutes. Instead, may I offer a different solution? So it's clearly, we've established
that coolers are a scam, fake and not necessary. So instead, what if we cool our CPU with nothing but thermal paste? Anyone thirsty? So now, oh no! Whatever will we do? My CPU temperatures are
going through the roof. Well, why don't we take some thermal paste and see if that will solve our problems. So let's just, let's go have some fun. Don't try this at home. Okay, so that's one tube. How are my temperatures? Is it worse now? So if you were wondering if
you can just put thermal paste on your CPU, that won't help, but if you're wondering if too much thermal paste
will cause a problem, I don't think so. I think I have applied slightly
too much thermal paste, but that's fine 'cause you know what? (thermal paste squishes) What could possibly go wrong? So we're just gonna just
plug our CPU fan back in. All right, let's see if it works. Wait, it's actually working. I mean, I knew that, of
course it's gonna work. I am an expert here. Actually, you know what I will say? Even with a slightly large
amount of thermal paste, it actually didn't
really make a huge mess. Like I can't actually see
any of it around the cooler. And you've seen it immediately works. Our CPU's gone straight back to 100% and we're coming down
in temperature slowly. Now, what does it look like
once we've actually done this? Oh.
- Oh! - Ew. Will thermal paste hold
my dry ice in place? Actually, look, it immediately spiked. It immediately spiked. It works! That was what I was doing wrong all along. I should have used thermal
paste, then my dry ice, not dry ice on my own. Man, what a dummy. So the other day I got this
text for my buddy, Mr. Yeester, the TikTok Tech Tinkerer. Do you guys have roof
access at your office? Coming from him, this
is mildly concerning. What do we have here? - I need you to take a look at my PC. - Okay. - Might be dinged up a little bit, but- - Sure, sure, need a little
bit of troubleshooting advice? - Yeah, maybe if you can figure
out what's wrong with it, that'd be really helpful for me. - Okay, sure, no problem, man. - You know, when you ship PCs, you never know what's
gonna get moved around. - Oh you know what, your graphics card may have gotten a little loose inside. That's probably it. All right, so, all nicely padded. You used a good foam. - Yeah, yeah. - Um.... (crew laughing) Did you drop this PC, by chance? - I think the question is
how many times did I drop it, if I'm being honest. - What kind of heights did
you drop this computer from? - Well, started with two inches. - Okay. - And then four inches. - Okay, that's funny.
- And then eight inches. - That's too much, I wouldn't do that. - 16 - Stop. - And then 128 inches,
and then 256 inches. - And it survived? - It survived. - I'm afraid, is it? (crew laughing) Whoa! What? - [Ken] I'm surprised
this made it through UPS. (all laughing) - [Mr. Yeester] Believe it
not, this PC still functions. - Well, maybe with some reassembly. - If we define function as
if we can get into the BIOS. - Okay, that counts. - The part that is potentially the- - Aah! - Okay. - Look at the back! Look at the back!  That's not the angle
graphics card should be in. - Well, speaking of angles that
graphics card shouldn't be, this GPU kind of- - Aah!
- Ooh hoo. - Do not do that to me! - It is in its own element at this point. - As long as the board
physically stays intact. 'Cause obviously the
board starts cracking, traces are all gonna be gone. It's gonna be a wrap. - If the CPU stays intact
with the motherboard- - Which it would 'cause that's
not gonna be that practical. It's not going anywhere. - [Mr. Yeester] And as
long as one stick of RAM stays in place.
- Yeah, yeah. - And I guess the power
supply doesn't explode, then you're gonna be fine. - Let's take this to the roof and see if it will survive the final test. - Let's do it. - Don't try this at home. (Mr. Yeester laughing) So I don't actually know
how high this roof is. I'm gonna say somewhere
between 25 and 30 feet is probably accurate. - [Mr. Yeester] It feels very high. It feels very high when you look down. - We'll just say this straight up. We are trained professionals. Do not try this at home. Okay, just gonna be very clear. Do not try this at home. Do you think it's gonna survive? - My money is that this will still work. What do you think? - I'm gonna say it's gonna die. Here goes nothing, are you ready? - [Mr. Yeester] I'm
ready, let's drop this PC. - Three, two, one. (metal clanks) I don't think that survived. I don't know about this one. Oh my God. So, CPU power's in.
- Powers in. Motherboard powers in. - It's fine, dude. I mean, okay, fine is a relative term. I don't know, though. Look at this edge. So here's the edge of the board. - [Mr. Yeester] That is true. - [Austin] It is like- - [Mr. Yeester] This board is warped. - So literally without touching it, (bell dings) we're going to grab power for
it and see if it will fire up. There's no way a board which
is bent like this could work. There's no shot. - [Mr. Yeester] Hey, well, we'll find out. - Have we mentioned do
not try this at home? - We are trained professionals. All right, let's power this PC on. So power is connected. You can see the motherboard
LED is flashing. - [Austin] Oh my God. Okay, so power supply's working. - [Mr. Yeester] Power
supply is working, man. - So if this fan spins,
we know we're in business. But if it doesn't, we
might be out of luck. - A few things are concerning. Motherboard being bent, not ideal. - [Austin] Yeah. - [Mr. Yeester] Power supply having bits of power supply chunks flowing around. (power supply rattling) - Power supply should not make this noise. - No, it should not. - But I mean there's about 100 reasons why this shouldn't work, so if any part of it works, I'm impressed. So let's see if we can use a screwdriver to jumpstart the board. Here we go. I think it's dead. - The PC is no more.
(somber violin music) - So if you've ever wondered
if a PC will survive a 30 foot drop, the answer is
apparently, surprisingly, no. - Which means the limit
of a PC surviving a fall is somewhere in between a
20 foot and a 30 foot drop. That is what we have proven here. - Dude. - That was awesome. - I am very... The fact that this survived as
far as it is, is incredible. - Yeah, now we gotta find
a place to bury it here. Do you have a hole pre-dug? (Mr. Yeester laughs)