China imports over $300 billion worth of 
semiconductors each year. The country is   reliant on chip technology imports 
for its high technology products. China correctly recognizes this as a potential 
weakness to their future economy. So in 2014,   they rolled out a $20 billion national fund 
to help develop a domestic chip industry. The government has made it clear that 
they want to be able to make cutting   edge chips within a few years. And it 
appears that they are willing to spend   almost whatever it takes in order 
to create this homegrown industry. Such demands will always give rise 
to charlatans. In this video we look   at one really big charlatan - Wuhan 
Hongxin Semiconductor Manufacturing,   HSMC or just Hongxin. I will use 
the two terms interchangeably. The company was founded in November 2017. 
Right from the start, they wanted to go big.   Their website said that they will start 
off making up to 30,000 wafers a month.   First with 14nm process node generation and 
then with the 7nm process node generation. 30,000 wafers, depending on the wafer size, 
would mean that a startup foundry would   spin up a fab with capacity matching 
one of TSMC's megafabs in Hsinchu.   In about two years. I guess, not all that 
impossible since TSMC has done it. They spun   up their Fab 18 Gigafab - which makes some 100,000 
wafers a month - in 2.5 years. But they're TSMC. In order to prove their bonafides, 
HSMC did two flashy things. In July 2019 they hired Chiang Shang-Yi 
as their CEO. Chiang had been the R&D   vice president at TSMC. The 75 year old had 
also been an independent director for SMIC   from 2016 until his hiring at Hongxin. Chiang is a legit expert in chip-making. His 
contributions to TSMC are pretty impressive. Second in December 2019, they managed to purchase 
a TWINSCAN NXT: 1980Di DUV lithography scanner   from ASML, the Dutch company that is the 
world's only supplier of these things. Having one of those multi-million dollar 
devices theoretically gives you the ability   to etch chips up to the 10nm level. It costs 
about 581 million RMB or $87 million USD. Hongxin made a big deal out of this purchase. 
They did a big public ceremony announcing it.   They would claim that they had the only device in   China capable of creating 7nm 
node chips. This is not true. And then literally a month later, they took 
out a bank loan using the TWINSCAN device   as collateral. The bank statement says that the 
device is new and was never used. Not a good sign. On the surface, the project began to 
attract a lot of government funding.   First, it came from the city of Wuhan. In 
September 2018, the city featured 33 projects   in the high-tech and manufacturing worlds. Wuhan 
claimed to have invested a total of $16 billion   into these projects. Hongxin and another 
company had received 80% of that $16 billion. The public relations article announcing 
this investment said that Hongxin had   received the most money from Wuhan. They 
had received 636 acres of land with a   636,000 square meter building 
currently under construction. The total planned cost of the 
project would be 128 billion RMB   or roughly $20 billion USD. It would 
provide 3,000 high value jobs for Wuhan. At the end of 2019, Hongxin had received $2 
billion USD from the Wuhan city government.   In 2020 it anticipated another $1 billion USD.   I never saw any indication that it 
received the full $20 billion as planned. At the same time, the company began to join in 
the crazy race for Taiwanese semiconductor talent.   They offered salaries 2-2.5x the market rate for 
employees from TSMC's R&D department. They would   poach some 100 such people from the company 
- a few news articles were written about it. The first indication that things weren't 
going well happened in July 2020.   An article by the construction company 
subcontractor building out HSMC's   facilities - Wuhan Huanyu Foundation Engineering 
(Wuhan Huanyu) - accused the company of not   paying its bills - about $5 million. They would 
take the company to court in order to get paid. Hongxin the public entity is 90% owned by a 
shell company set up by two people Li Xueyan   and Cao Shan. Li Xueyan has no prior experience 
in semiconductors. Her corporate ownership stakes   consist of a Chinese liquor retailer, a few 
catering companies and a few medical companies. The shell company did not 
invest any money into Hongxin.   The majority of the money seems 
to have come from either the   local Wuhan government or through loans from 
the construction subcontractors themselves. Not only that, you got indications 
of wages not being paid.   Job offers being rescinded or pushed back. And 
bank accounts being frozen. The Hubei provincial   court took back land usage rights for 300 
acres due to these bills not being paid. Here is what is confusing to me. If the 
company really received those billions of   dollars from the Wuhan government 
as claimed in that press release,   where did it go? Why can't it pay a measly 
$5 million to its construction subcontractor? My guess is that Hongxin had a sort 
of Silicon Valley, bootstrap vibe.   They wanted to put as little money as 
they possibly could from the start.   The classic strategy of “Other People’s Money”. They strung themselves along based on their own 
hype and cash from local government officials.   Such local city officials are easy to bamboozle 
with fancy words. The Wuhan local government   bureaucrat, you dangle them the possibility 
of having a TSMC in their own city, they will   believe it because they want to. It’s like the 
Wisconsin/Foxconn situation but just in China. But the local governments themselves did not 
have enough money to get HSMC up and running.   They could just grant them small things.   Land usage rights that might be worth 
a lot on paper - but that isn’t cash. So management realized that 
they needed to go bigger.   They bet on being able to con 
successively higher governments:   Local to district to provincial. With 
the final goal of getting access to the   Central Government’s National Semiconductor cash 
spigot. That’s the big time. That’s the big win! But the construction subcontractor 
dispute in December 2019 stopped them.   The court case prevented them from making a 
successful application for funds from the national   semiconductor fund. And then the pandemic finally 
ended things for good and the plans fell through. For the most part, I think one HSMC co-founder 
is on to greener pastures. Cao Shan,   the other co-founder, the one who does not own 
a liquor store, exited the HSMC parent company   and started another semiconductor company 
in Zhuhai - Yixin Integrated Technology. He hired another ex-TSMC person, Xia Jingqiu, as 
the CEO and set up two more companies like HSMC:   Quanxin Integrated Circuit 
Manufacturing and Yunxin   International Integrated Circuit Manufacturing. 
It’s just the same model all over again,   except with different local 
governments. What a grifter. HSMC is a sad story. It’s not 
the only one. In 2019, Dehuai   Semiconductor in Jiangsu province collapsed 
under the weight of unpaid wages and lawsuits.   They got $700 million USD in investment but 
still ended up over $14 million in debt. July 2020, Dekema in Nanjing went bankrupt. They 
had raised $3 billion from investors including   the municipal government to build indigenous 
image sensor chips. All they had for that   were 2 unfinished buildings. Not 
a single wafer was ever made. China’s financial and tech markets seem 
to have these sort of fevers where they   just go all out in some industry. Think about 
the ride-sharing wars between Uber and Didi.   And then the bike sharing wars in 
China - which were really crazy. The same fever is starting to roll over 
semiconductor manufacturing in China.   SMIC went public on the Shanghai and 
Hong Kong stock exchange. The stock   exploded over 100% in the first day of trading.   They are building mini-campuses with Korean 
and Taiwanese themed accommodations so to house   the dozens and dozens of chip engineers 
they’re poaching from Samsung and TSMC. It is kind of nuts. It is kind of a waste. And 
I am one of the more optimistic ones here. I do   think that if China is determined enough, they 
can succeed in this industry. They can. I really   believe that. But they need to concentrate and 
work at it with a focused, concentrated approach. Because semiconductor manufacturing is 
way different from an internet startup.   Any schlub can start a website 
and then offer a service. You don’t start a foundry without access to some 
serious, national-level amount of resources.   Not just a Kilimanjaro of cash but also a base of 
expertise, infinite patience, and so much talent.   None of that comes along in 2 years, 5 years, and 
even ten. Ask Singapore. They once tried to do   this too, until the government lost interest and 
moved on to other things. Their foundry industry   is eh. It hangs around. But it's just there. 
China should study hard Singapore's lesson. I have looked at a few failures here. 
I think the common theme in all of them   is that the company founders wanted to get in and 
out as fast as possible. Doing anything really,   really fast tends to cause mistakes. That’s 
fine for a lot of things, but not semiconductor   manufacturing. Doing so is a formula for fast 
failure. And you don't even need to be a grifter.