Talk to any concrete professional and they’ll
tell you the first rule of concrete is this: it’s pretty much guaranteed to crack. But not all cracking is considered equal,
and there is a way to reinforce concrete to minimize its negative impacts. Hey I’m Grady and this is Practical Engineering. Today we’re talking about prestressed concrete. This video is sponsored by Dashlane, never
forget a password again. More on that later. Despite its excellent qualities as a structural
material, concrete has some weaknesses, too. One that we’ve discussed in previous videos
is that it has almost no strength against tension. Concrete can withstand a tremendous amount
of compressive stress, but when you try to pull it apart, it gives up easily. Concrete’s other weakness is that it’s
brittle. It doesn’t have any “give” or stretch
or ductility. Combine these two weaknesses, and you get
cracks. Concrete loves to crack. And if you’re designing or building something
made of concrete, understanding how much and where it’s going to crack can be the difference
between the success and failure of your structure. To understand how engineer’s design reinforced
concrete structures, we first have to understand design criteria - or the goals of the structure. The obvious goal that we all understand is
that it shouldn’t fall down. When a car drives over a bridge and the bridge
doesn’t collapse, the structure is achieving its design criterion of ultimate strength. But, in many cases in structural engineering,
avoiding collapse actually isn’t the limiting design criteria. The other important goal is to avoid deflection,
or movement under load. Most structural members deflect quite a bit
before they actually fail, and this can be bad news. The first reason why is perception. People don’t feel safe on a structure that
flexes and bends. We want our bridges and buildings to feel
sturdy and immovable. The other reason is that things attached to
the structure like plaster or glass might break if it deflects too much. In the case of reinforced concrete, deflection
has another impact: cracks. The reinforcement within concrete is usually
made from steel, and steel is much more elastic than concrete. So, in order to mobilize the strength of the
steel, first it has to stretch a little. But, unlike steel, concrete is brittle - it’s
doesn’t stretch, it cracks. So that often means that concrete has to crack
before the rebar can take up any of the tensile stress of the member. This demonstration is from a test in a previous
video showing a conventionally reinforced concrete beam. Go back and check that video out if you haven't
seen it yet. Notice how this beam is resisting the load
on it, even though it is cracked at the bottom. It’s meeting design criterion number 1 - it’s
holding the load (in this case 6 tons) without failing. But it’s not meeting design criterion number
2 (serviceability) - it’s deflecting too much and the concrete is cracked. Those cracks not only look bad, but in an
actual structure, they could allow water and contaminants into contact with the reinforcement,
eventually causing it to corrode, weaken, and even fail. One solution to this problem of deflection
in concrete members is pre-stressing, or putting compressive stress into the structural member
before it’s put into service. This is normally accomplished by tensioning
the reinforcement within the concrete. This gives the member a compressive stress
that will balance the tensile stresses imposed in the member once it is put into service. A conventionally reinforced concrete member
doesn’t have any compression to start with, so it will deflect too much well before it’s
in any danger of not being strong enough to hold the load. So with conventional reinforcement, you don’t
even get to take full advantage of the structural strength of the member. When you prestress the reinforcement within
concrete, you don’t necessarily increase its strength, but you do reduce its deflection. This balances out the maximum load allowed
under each of the structural design criteria, allowing you to take fuller advantage of the
strength of each material. There are two main ways to prestress reinforcement
within concrete, and of course I built a couple of beams to demonstrate. The first method is pre-tensioning. And yes that terminology is a little confusing. It’s pre-stressed because the steel is stressed
before the member is put into service, but pre-tensioned because the steel is stressed
before the concrete cures. To make this work, I had to build a little
frame to go around my concrete beam. This frame will hold the steel in tension
while the concrete cures. I installed threaded rods through the mold
and frame, and then tensioned these rods by tightening the nuts. I tried to use the pitch of the ringing to
get them at around the same tension, and you can see how much my frame is flexing from
the force in these steel rods. The other method for pre-stressing steel is
post-tensioning. In post-tensioning, the steel is stressed
after the concrete cures, but still before the member is put into service. In this beam I cast in smooth plastic sleeves
in the mold. The steel rods can slide easily within the
sleeves. Once both molds were prepared, I filled them
up with concrete. And I finally got a construction grade concrete
vibrator as well. This machine helps get all the air bubbles
out of fresh concrete before it cures, a process called consolidation. After the concrete’s has had some time to
cure, it’s time to test the beams out. On the pretensioned beam, I can unscrew the
nuts and take off this frame. Because the concrete hardened around the bolts,
the steel rods are still under tension inside this beam. I put it under the hydraulic press for testing,
and the results are easy to see. In a conventionally reinforced beam where
the steel is simply cast into the concrete without any tension, cracks start forming
at around 4 tons. In the pretensioned beam, the cracks didn’t
appear until double that force at around 8 tons. The tension already in the steel is able to
take up the force of the press without requiring the beam to flex. For the post-tensioned beam, I inserted the
steel reinforcement after the concrete had cured. Then I tightened the bolts on the rods to
pre-stress the steel. Under the hydraulic press, the results are
nearly identical. The tension in the steel held beam in compression
for much longer than a conventionally reinforced member could. Of course, the cracks eventually appear, but
it takes much more force before they do. That’s because, adding force to the beam
is not creating tension, but just reducing the compression that’s already been introduced
through the tension in the steel rods. It’s important to point out that we didn’t
necessarily make these beams stronger. Both the steel and concrete have the same
strength as they would without prestressing the steel. But, we did increase the serviceability of
member by reducing the amount of deflection under load. Of course, none of these examples actually
failed because of the reinforcement, and that wasn’t the point of the demo. But, it’s still more fun to test everything
to failure. Pre-stressed concrete is used in all kinds
of structures from bridges to buildings to silos and tanks. It’s a great way to minimize cracking and
take fuller advantage of the incredible strength of reinforced concrete. Thank you for watching, and let me know what
you think! Thanks to Dashlane for sponsoring this video. I’ve been the victim of at least ten major
online data breaches in my life, including Facebook, LinkedIn, and Equifax. Obviously all those passwords have been changed,
but if I was reusing the same password for all my online accounts, any data breach could
give people access to my bank accounts, health records, and everything in between. Dashlane simplifies online security and password
management by seamlessly integrating into your browser and syncing between any kind
of device automatically. And it’s more than just a password manager. Dashlane warns you if stolen personal information
is found in a data breach, can help you change passwords without going through a maze of
webpage settings, and has dark web monitoring and a VPN. I’ve been using Dashlane for a while now,
and I really enjoy the peace of mind knowing my online accounts each have their own password
that I don’t have to try and remember on my own. Support this channel and visit Dashlane.com/PracticalEngineering
to sign up for free. Use Promo Code PracticalEngineering to get
10% off a one-year premium subscription. Thank you for watching, and let me know what
you think!