- I love racing games, but how close is a controller
compared to this or that? (car engine revs)
(catchy music) Today, we are testing to see if a racing sim can hold its own against an actual car on a real racetrack. So to kick things off, we
are here at our fine sponsor, Micro Center Tustin location, to actually acquire our sim racing gear. So Micro Center, they have
massively improved the amount of stuff that they have here. I mean they have aisles of gear that you can go everything from a very basic first
time simulator setup to something which is honestly like this. It's $7,000, but it's gonna give you a fairly close representation
of what it's like to drive an actual race
car on a real track. For years now, Ken has been pitching me on why we should build a
high-end racing simulator setup. Now I'm a huge fan of track days, where they're expensive,
they're time-consuming, I always break something. So if you could build something
which could largely emulate that experience except from
the comfort of your own home and with zero of the danger of (throat clears)
wrecking your wheels again, well boy, oh boy, would
that be a great idea? Micro Center does have a
premium sim racing bundle. I mean this is too good of
a deal not to get, right? I mean we're doing the video. We gotta see how realistic a multiple thousand-dollar
simulator setup is compared to the real thing. I kind of gotta go all out, right? Wow, what an experience just jumping into something like this. Now mind you, I'm going
on a fairly slow race car, and what I'm feeling through
the actual steering wheel, the amount of like force I
have to put on the brake pedal as I hop on the brakes, it's like I can actually feel like the car getting loose in my hands. Okay, I got some practice to
do, but I'm totally sold, man. This is absolutely it. (Ken laughs) After spending days to build,
test, and tune our setup, it's time to take this
entire rig to the racetrack to see how well that performs
against the real thing. Welcome to Big Willow at Willow Springs International Raceway. So Ken and I have been
here many, many times, but across that side to Streets of Willow and up the hill with Big Willow, which we shot a video last year. This is our first time ever
on the big track itself. It's all ours for the day. So today, we're going to be
taking my Audi RS 3 head-to-head with the RS 3 in "iRacing". Now it's not exactly the same thing. The car in "iRacing" is
a legitimate race car, which is going to be lighter, it's gonna be faster in the corners, but importantly, I have
significantly more power. We're talking like 350 in the game. I'm pushing about 500 to the wheels. I still think the race car will be faster, but we might get kind of close. - Core takeaway is Austin has done a lot of practicing regardless to
get the layout of the track. So now let's actually see
what the differences are. - And not wreck my car 'cause I don't have a
reset button in real life. (car engine revs)
- Oh geez, your launch control is, oh Jesus. - This part, I love this part. It's so like wonderful sweeping. - [Ken] The road car is definitely not as grippy and you definitely
- No. - feel the weight, but it
is holding its own though. I think your power advantage
might actually help even things out a bit.
- Here's the thing though, I don't have the bravery. I'm going so much slower right
now than I am in the sim. I can already tell. - Ooh.
(car tires screech) Yeah, those Cup 2s are
definitely complaining - Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- versus the racing slicks on the "iRacing" car. - [Austin] Now that I've
done my first practice laps, it is time to jump on the simulator and see how well it compares. - Funny enough, the setup
(laughs) is right here. - All right, my friends, welcome to our racing simulator setup at the actual racetrack. So let me walk you through it real quick before we actually jump on. Because we're using "iRacing", you actually don't need an
enormous amount of horsepower, but this is a very high-spec
pc, so it's all-AMD. So we're using a Ryzen 9 7950X as well as our Radeon 7900 XTX. We're also using an LG UltraGear 45", which is a terrific curved OLED display that runs at 240 Hertz. Something we can easily hit in "iRacing". As far as the Micro Center
premium sim bundle itself, it includes a lot, including
the Simucube 2 Pro Base paired with the GSI Formula Pro Elite Wheel, which these two together are a ton of the actual functionality and specifically the feel of the car. And on top of that is paired with the Heusinkveld Sprint 3
Pedals, which are phenomenal, the TK Racing P1 Pro chassis. And we've opted to add a
Pista Gaming Racing Seat, specifically the Tony Kanaan Edition. So I know that there's like a
huge amount of customization that we can do on the sim. Like what do you think we should be doing to try to get more out of the sim so that we can actually do the one-to-one with the actual car?
- I mean a lot of it is like actually now that
you have your car here and are driving it back
to back with the sim, little things like seat position
or like pedal placement, and then obviously there
are settings in the game and the individual software
for our wheel, our base, and also our pedals to kind
of fine-tune all that as well. - I actually have a couple of ideas on how I can tweak the sim to be just a little bit more realistic. Let's start off by putting a
few laps in with the simulator. I'm also going to try with
an Xbox One controller since it's just simply the
thing I'm most comfortable with. And then we're gonna go
out on the actual track. I'm gonna put a real
lap time down in my car to see how realistic this entire setup is. So you know what, back to back, first impressions are is that it actually is relatively close. Now the race car has a
lot more grip than my car. Like not even close at how
much more speed I can take to a lot of these corners, but I will say that the feedback and game from the wheel is surprisingly better than in my actual real car, which is not something I expected. I will say "iRacing" does a terrific job of modeling this track. Like it really feels exactly
like the actual real track. One of the things I have a
problem with is I have a tendency to push really hard in the
sim because I know I can, but in the real world, obviously, I don't want to wreck my car
or break anything, right? So it's actually a really
interesting balance of how both of these combined
actually kind of make me, I think a better driver realistically. Like I'm glad that I've
actually had both of these. Three, two, one! We're ahead by 1/100th
of a second. Let's go! Wait, that was a 1:26. That was a 1:26.1. That's my fastest lap I've
ever done in "iRacing". With my lap time set in
the simulator, I'm curious. How fast am I with the controller? Now I will say the Xbox controller might have an actual decent shot here, mostly because I spend a
lot of time playing "Forza" and "Gran Turismo", and the vast majority of my racing games have
been using the controller. Dude, it's really hard to be
as precise with the controller. Like I feel like I'm sawing back and forth on the wheel so much. What's going on is basically
when I overcook it, then I'm having to like
get way off the throttle and the brake to kind of compensate, which is losing me so much time. No, no, no, no, no! (laughs) I'm like two seconds
slower with the controller. For me personally, I
think the wheel is faster, which it shouldn't be a surprise. Obviously, this is an expensive setup, but it's not just this sort of the detail that you get with it. It's also just the fact
that I've got that feedback, and that it sort of
really engages my brain in a different way when I'm having to physically fight the wheel
and really stomp on the pedal. Like it's sort of, it's
hard to describe it. It really sort of
engages my brain in a way that the controller is almost
a little bit like autopilot. But in a more realistic
simulator like "iRacing", you do need that level
of fidelity and detail 'cause it's not doing any
of the assists for you. Like you've gotta drive the car yourself, which is a great segue
to me driving my own car and trying to beat a
1:26 or a 1:28 or a 1:35. (upbeat music) All right, my friends, it is
time to hit the track for real. - [Announcer] Five, four, three, two, One. (car engine revs) - [Austin] That was good, that was good. I like that, I like that. The tail does not wanna
stay tight, that's fine. Hard break, now shift to
fourth. Oh God, I'm so slow! Oh my God, I'm so slow. That was a 1:40.8. I'm over 10 seconds slower! Ugh. I know I can get closer than that. Let the tail come out. Power, power, power,
baby. Swing wide again. More power through here,
way more aggressive line. Brake, get down. Where's the apex? Where's the apex? I probably missed it back there somewhere. All right, I'm gonna
slow down a little bit. I'm gonna just be ballsy.
I'm gonna be ballsy. (car engine revs) There's more time. (tense music) And where's my apex? Where's my apex? There's the apex! Woo! All right, that was a lot faster. Ah, I could shave more time. I know that. - [Ken] How'd it go? - 1:38. - (laughs) 1:38. I'm 12 seconds slower than the sim and 10 seconds slower than the controller. I will say driver error is part of that, but the bigger thing is how much more speed the race car can take. I guess I went into this thinking that the car was gonna be
a way better experience. I knew that the race
car was gonna be faster. I thought it was gonna
be maybe a little bit more competitive with the car. But in reality, while I still, if everything else was equal and I had a track and
everything all day long, I would still wanna do the track. But this is expensive not only for track time, also for tires. Like this is a very, very expensive hobby. And when you look at a sim setup, it actually kind of
justifies itself a little bit if it means that you
could be better prepared for your actual track days or maybe prepared for your first one. I'm gonna do a couple more laps, see if I can get any closer
'cause I did only two hot laps. I did 1:40 and then I did 1:38. - Well, there he goes. The boy
racer himself, Austin Evans. - One more time. One more shot at this. I can do this. I'm not gonna
end up in the dirt either. (steady music)
(car engine revs) Oh, come on. Grip up, grip up, grip up,
grip up, grip up, grip up. Woo! (laughs) I'm cooking it. I'm cooking it, man. No, no, no. Abort, abort. Okay, that's fine, that's fine. Too fast, too aggressive,
not smooth enough. I've cooked it too hard. I
was just overdriving the car. I need to be a little bit
calmer, but I have one lap. This is it. All right, let's go. Let's smooth it through
here. Get down a little bit. No, that wasn't great. Whoa! That's not it, that's not it. (car engine revs) I did another 1:38! (laughs) I did another one. Oh my God, dude! I've done four fast laps, two
of which are the exact same. No! No! Ah, that's it, it's a wrap.
That's the end of the day. I noticed that the tires were warm, right? Like definitely the
tires have not been able to properly cool off, but
that that's not an excuse. Like I was overdriving the car. I mean look, this is incredibly cool. Like it is incredibly cool to be able to have this opportunity, and it really gives me the
motivation to be better. Like I'm not trash, but I'm
just not where I should be. Look, I did not do as
well as I had hoped today, but on the bright side, I was able to go onto a track
for the very first time. And with the learnings I
had from the simulator, I actually give myself a pretty
good sort of basis to start. I am really impressed with
how far sim racing has come in the last few years since
I built my last setup. I mean this stuff is so
incredibly high-end and detailed. But the great thing is Micro
Center is your number one shop for everything racing sim-related. Whether you wanna go with
the premium bundle like this or you wanna get something that's a little bit more entry level, Micro Center is absolutely
your one-stop shop. And speaking of being a one-stop shop, they're also opening a brand new store in Charlotte, North Carolina, early 2024. So definitely be sure to
keep an eye out for that. They also have some other
deals you'll have linked in the description, including the Ender 3 3D
Printer for $100 or $99 if you wanna be specific, available only if you're a new customer. But thank you very much for watching. Thank you very much to Micro Center for sponsoring this video. And if you'll excuse me, I'm gonna get some seat
time in the simulator at home so next time I come to the track, I'll be better 'cause I need to be faster. - I am speed.
(car engine revs)