Is your fab running? Well, you better go catch it! Ha. Ha. I did this whole video just to make this joke. Anyway, semiconductor manufacturing is the
most complicated process known to humanity that has ever been successfully performed
at scale. But what does that actually mean? What is humanity doing inside those massive
fabs? You curious? So am I. So let's get nuts. For today's video, we are going to talk about
wafer fabrication and the processes going ## Beginnings We should begin with some basics. An integrated circuit or IC is a collection
of devices. Some of these devices can be active. The most familiar of which is the transistor,
which can control the flows of electrons from a source to a drain using a gate and a voltage. A transistor is like a water fountain. Water goes from its source to a drain, and
that flow is controlled by a gate. You can actively open or shut that gate using
some energy. Same as with a transistor. In addition to active devices, there are also
passive ones like resistors and capacitors. As the name implies, they cannot actively
control or amplify a signal, but they can change it as it passes through them. This collection of active and passive devices
- numbering in the billions - is connected together by a pattern of fine metal wires. ## The Process Cycle If you look at a cross-section of a semiconductor
under a microscope, you see lots and lots of layers of different materials like cake
or something. How do we build this? First, we add a very thin layer of material. There are many ways to do this and we will
discuss some of them. After that, we use lithography to transfer
a pattern from a mask onto that layer. Once that is done and over with, we do etching
to permanently "engrave" that lithographied - is that a word? - pattern into the layer. There are many ways to do this and we will
discuss some of them. After that, we might modify the layer's electrical
properties by doping it with impurities. Depending on the process and the specific
recipe, we might perform this impurity doping step at other points in time too. There are many ways to do this and we will
discuss some of them. After which, we go add another thin film layer
so that the whole cycle can happen all over again. For instance, metal thin films for our interconnects. Our chip is made this way. A cycle executed dozens or even hundreds of
times over many weeks with excruciating precision. Each step is either adding, modifying, heating,
or subtracting those layers on the wafer. Or cleaning. 30% of the steps in semiconductor process
are cleaning steps. ## Adding Layers Many different material layers go into a semiconductor. Those layers can be made from either an oxide,
polysilicon, a dielectric insulator, or a metal conductor. The fundamental challenge is how to vaporize
the substance's atoms, transport them to the substrate, and then evenly condense them onto
the surface. The industry uses four methods to create a
thin layer - thermal oxidation, epitaxy, physical vapor deposition, and chemical vapor deposition. Let us start with thermal oxidation. ## Adding Oxides with Thermal Oxidation One of the main reasons why we use silicon
so much is silicon dioxide. Silicon dioxide is a stable electrical insulator
that we can easily form on top of the silicon surface like a tablecloth, protecting it from
chemical impurities and other random pollutants generated by other processes. It can also serve as an insulating buffer
to prevent one transistor from electrically interfering with its neighbors' business. Silicon dioxide naturally grows in thin layers
about 10-20 atoms thick when oxygen comes into contact with bare silicon. But we can produce thicker layers when necessary
using what is called "thermal oxidation". This means heating up a silicon wafer to about
700 to 1200 degrees Celsius in the presence of oxygen. This causes the oxygen atoms to get much more
excited, and so they diffuse deeper into the silicon. ## Epitaxy & Physical Vapor Deposition Other than this silicon dioxide, everything
else above the surface of the wafer is deposited rather than grown. Ergo the phrase, deposition. Because each of these thin films have their
own specific requirements for deposition, this industry is very diverse. The three major deposition markets are epitaxy,
physical vapor deposition, and chemical vapor deposition. I mentioned them earlier, but I am repeating
them for you now. The first is epitaxy. The primary use case for this is for laying
down an epitaxial layer of silicon on top of the silicon wafer. Why do we need this? This epitaxial layer is generally free of
oxygen and carbon. Despite all we do to make the silicon in the
silicon wafers as pure as possible, the Czochralski method still leaves behind
oxygen and carbon impurities from the graphite liners and quartz crucible which impede performance. The epitaxial layer is usually applied by
a wafer manufacturer like GlobalWafers, but sometimes the IC manufacturer does it too. Second is physical vapor deposition or PVD. We use this to lay down films of metal. Early on in the semiconductor industry, we
used a form of this called "evaporation". We put the wafers into a vacuum chamber with
the metal we want to target. Then, we heat the metal in a crucible to its
evaporation point. The metal vaporizes and travels over to the
wafers where it accumulates on them as a film. Nice. However as transistors got smaller, the industry
found it harder to reliably lay down consistent metal films over specific features like steps. Steps, meaning like the walls and corners
of trenches in the semiconductor's structure. In response, the industry introduced sputtering,
a PVD technique first discovered in 1925 by the Nobel Prize winning chemist Irving Langmuir. Here's a setup for an absolutely hilarious
joke. A wafer, a metal material, and some argon
plasma are introduced into a vacuum chamber. What happens next? Well, the energized argon ions are accelerated
into the metal material, obviously! The impact of those ions physically smashing
into the metal causes metal atoms and molecules to fly off into the vacuum. They then cross the 10 centimeters or so of
vacuum space towards the wafer where they accumulate on it as our desired metal thin
film. Yes, this is what happens. I am not joking. ## Chemical Vapor Deposition The third and most significant deposition
method is Chemical Vapor Deposition or CVD. The technology has applications beyond the
semiconductor industry. For instance, we use it to make nearly perfect
synthetic diamonds. CVD first entered the market in the 1950s
as a way to deposit epitaxial silicon layers but has expanded to cover a wide variety of
substances. In CVD, we take two or more gaseous reactants
- our precursors - and have them react with each other. The result then forms on top of the wafer. It relies on chemical reactions to do its
work, which differentiates it from PVD. That is your basic overview, but there are
many sub-variants. For instance, plasma-enhanced CVD and the
latest, hottest thing - atomic layer deposition. ALD - sometimes also called atomic layer epitaxy
- is crazy. You lay down the thin film literally atom
by atom. It first entered the market in the late 1980s
to help fill trench structures. First discovered in the Soviet Union and Finland,
ALD has a fascinating history. I promise to do a video about it someday. Anyway, Applied Materials is probably the
dominant company in deposition with strong positions in both physical vapor and chemical
vapor deposition. But Tokyo Electron and KLA also have positions
in the space too. ## Lithography Now that we have created our thin films, it
is time to transfer the IC design onto those films. Lithography is the core process to achieve
this goal. It is a process with three big steps with
many intermediary steps which I won’t mention here. First, we turn the design or part of the design
into what is called a photomask. In the case of most industry-standard optical
lithography, this photomask is made from "blanks" of either quartz or lime-soda glass. We transfer the design onto the mask blank
using individual electron beams. If a traditional lithography machine is like
a printer rapidly stamping a design many times over on a wafer, then the electron beam is
like a handwriting with a pencil. As a result, this direct-writing method can
be quite slow, which substantially adds to the cost of mask production. This is why it is not often used for producing
end user products. ## Photoresist In order to make sure the wafer can receive
that pattern, we apply a photosensitive chemical called a "resist" on top of it. The resist is kind of like film. It gets exposed to light and chemically reacts
to that light, leaving behind an imprint of a chip pattern. To apply the photoresist to the wafer, you
first spin the wafer at about 3,000 revolutions per minute - like as if it were the world's
most expensive pizza dough. Then we pour the tomato sauce - sorry, I mean
the photoresist - on top of it at its center. The resist will then evenly spread out over
the whole wafer. We then soft-bake the coated wafer at about
90-120 degrees to remove water and harden the resist. Engineers have to think about everything. Modern semiconductor fabs build "suck-back"
features onto the resist dispenser nozzle, because if they don't then you get resist
droplets that might fall onto wafers and cause defects. The leader in these photoresist coating machines
is Tokyo Electron, with about 90% market share. The resist is absolutely one of the most important
parts of the whole system. Don't under-estimate it. There is no point in having an expensive EUV
system printing at 20 nanometers or whatever if the resist cannot resolve the image. These are often extremely complicated conglomerate
chemicals with multiple components. They have to be sufficiently responsive to
these high-powered photons, resolve the image, and retain that image through all the subsequent
process steps. ## Exposure Tool In the second big step, we use a photolithography
exposure tool to first properly align the wafer and then flash it with high powered
light through the mask and optical reduction lens. Lithography is the most expensive part of
semiconductor manufacturing. It regularly takes up 30% of the total process
financial budget and half of the processing time. ASML in the Netherlands is the market leader
in lithography exposure tools. I have done a lot of videos about them. Other companies in the lithography space include
Japan's Nikon, Canon, and China's SMEE. ## Post-Exposure Third and finally, we need to prepare the
exposed wafer for the next step, which is etch. Here, we remove unwanted photoresist particles,
clean off any remaining solvents, and hard-bake the resist layer at the exact right temperature
to harden it against etch errors. This hard-bake also helps ameliorates something
called the "standing wave effect". Light during the lithography exposure phase
goes through the resist. It hits the substrate, bounces back up, and
interferes with the light coming down - leaving these wave-like features. The hard-bake helps smooth out the "standing
waves" in the resist. Perhaps by diffusing out the photoresist kind
of like a melting, gooey, delicious chocolate chip. This hard-bake is done on a 100 degree Celsius
hot plate for 1-3 minutes. We for real making pizzas here. The fab will also clean the wafers with ultrapure
water before and after the whole step. In fact, just assume they are cleaning these
wafers every time, all the time. ## Etching After the lithography step is complete, we
need to permanently transfer this pattern onto the underlying layers. This "pattern transfer" usually means to etch
away the bits of the thin films left unprotected by the exposed photoresist. In other words, if lithography draws the outline,
then etching cuts the paper. After etching, the photoresist is no longer
needed and we remove it in a stage called "resist stripping". After this step, it is no longer easily possible
to rework the chip. I like to think about etching as the conceptual
opposite of deposition. The latter adds a layer. The former takes that layer away. There are two big industrial categories of
etch tools - wet or dry. Under the hood, these use one or more of the
same principles - chemical reactions, temperature reactions, or physical particle collisions. ## Wet and Dry Etch Wet etching is pretty conceptually simple. You spray a powerful acid etchant onto the
wafer. The problem with this is uniformity. You can't tell the liquid to etch in just
one direction. We call this an "isotropic" etch profile. This makes it harder to wet-etch sharp corners
or distinct features. Imagine a tub of chocolate ice cream like
I am right now as I am writing this, and myself taking scoops out using a round ice cream
scoop. Imagine how hard it is to get sharp, right-hand
edges with this scoop. That is the problem with isotropic etch profiles. Isotropic etches can etch underneath the resist
lines - a situation known as "undercutting". Some thinner lines might even be completely
undercut. Undercutting isn't always bad. For instance, you need to do it for something
like MEMS, which have free-standing structures. You undercut to release them. But here it creates a loss of resolution and
sadness for the customer. The problem became quite significant in the
1980s when feature sizes shrank beyond the 3 micron limit. We want to etch in one direction - "anisotropic"
etching. This desire for anisotropic gave us what is
called "dry etch", "plasma etch" or "plasma assisted" etching. There are many types of this etch, but one
prominent example is Reactive Ion Etch. We inject a mixture of gas chemicals into
the top part of a vacuum chamber. One of those gases is a volatile etching gas
- usually some angry acid based on chlorine and fluorine. Then we turn on a powerful radio frequency
field around this mixture. The radio energy knocks out the electrons
in the gases, leaving behind positively charged ions. This combo of negative electrons and positive
ions eventually turns it into a plasma. Then we accelerate the positively-charged
ions in said plasma straight down towards the wafer like sand in a sand blaster. This is done using a powerful electric field
that attracts them. The plasma chemically reacts with the wafer,
creating byproducts. For instance, chlorine reacts with silicon
to create Silicon tetrachloride. We can then quickly pump away this byproduct. So here we have the best of two worlds - the
selectivity of a chemical reaction precisely oriented to get these vertical walls. We can also monitor the reaction's light emissions
for metrology purposes. In a way, Reactive Ion Etch and the PVD metal
sputtering method we discussed earlier in this video are very similar. You have a plasma, accelerate ions towards
a thing, and see them smash together. Current leaders in the dry etch world include
Applied Materials, KLA, Lam Research, and Tokyo Electron. ## Impurity Doping We have built the chip's structure. Now it is time to give it its electrical properties. As I mentioned, a transistor controls the
flow of electrons from the source to the drain. That source and drain is created with "impurity
doping" - the process of introducing exactly the right amounts of impurities into semiconductors. This can give the silicon strange powers. For instance, doping silicon with erbium can
make it emit light. But in this case, we are adding a few dopant
atoms to the silicon in order to make it donate electrons - n-type dopants - and a few atoms
to the other side of the silicon gate to make it accept electrons - p-type dopants. The element used for the former is usually
arsenic, phosphorous, and antimony. For the latter, boron. The concept of doping has been a part of the
semiconductor industry since the very beginning. There are two primary methods to do it - diffusion
and ion implantation. ## Doping & Ion Implantaion Up until the 1970s, the industry mostly used
diffusion. With diffusion, we put the wafers into a high
temperature furnace. Then we take the impurity - usually in liquid
form - and heat it up with some oxygen. The impurity will react with the silicon and
diffuse into it. However diffusion had significant drawbacks. The ion distributions in the embedded material
was uneven and haphazard. So in the 1970s, the industry started switching
to ion implanters. This is where the dopant atoms are injected
directly into the silicon using an ion beam. We heat up the source gas and break it into
a bunch of charged ions. We separate out some of those ions and accelerate
them into an ion beam. The ion beam is then scanned over the wafer
surface. Those ions will collide with the silicon atoms
and come to rest amongst them at a certain "range" under the surface. How deep depends on the ion's mass and speed. The upside is that we get better dopant distribution
and more precise targeting. The downside is that the ions damage the structure
of the silicon crystal. This requires a repair step known as "annealing". Current players in the ion implanter market
include Applied Materials, Varian, Axcelis and Nissin Ion Equipment. ## Fab Layouts So now we have a better understanding of the
various processes necessary for wafer fabrication. Now let’s talk fabs. The fab's cleanroom is split into processing
areas or bays based on their work function. Wet bays, diffusion bays, photo bay, etch
bay, implant bay and so on. As you might expect, tools for etching are
in the etch bay, photolithography in the photo bay, and so on. The whole room is raised up on the ground. This is partly to dampen vibrations and also
so that we can install equipment subsystems - radio frequency for the plasma systems,
vacuum pumps, liquid delivery for the various tools - underneath the floors. The floors are equipped with grid panels so
that air can circulate vertically up-down and down-up through huge high efficiency filters. The area is split into multiple classes of
cleanliness - class 10, 100, 1,000 and so on. These classes are defined with a weird mix
of the metric and Imperial units. Class 1 means for each cubic foot, there is
less than 1 particle larger than a half micron wide. Class 10, 10 particles, and so on. When the wafers are done, they are transferred
to a lower class cleanroom for testing and packaging. Some fabs outsource this work to third parties,
but a few do these in-house. ## Conclusion Coverage of the semiconductor manufacturing
process puts a lot of focus on lithography. ASML, the EUV lasers, and so on. And it is sort of justified. Lithography is in some ways different from
the rest of the semiconductor manufacturing process. It contains a great deal of the value because
we transmit chip IP through it. However, we should be clear that this is not
the only little miracle happening inside the fab. Processes like deposition, etch, and ion implantation
are critical to making the whole thing work. Studying them will help us all better understand
the enormity and complexity of the semiconductor supply chain. It's far more than just TSMC and ASML.