I’m on location outside San Antonio, 
Texas where a construction crew is   getting started unloading equipment to 
begin work on a new sewage lift station.   This area may look rural now, but it’s one 
of the fastest developing parts of Texas.   New homes and new businesses require new 
utilities, including sewers, to keep up with demand. And in this particular location, 
those new sewers need a new pumping station to   get the wastewater where it needs to go. Most people probably couldn’t guess the path their   dishwater or flushes take once they’re down the 
drain, but I’ve teamed up with the San Antonio   River Authority to give you an up close view of 
one of the most important steps of the process.   Come nerd out about construction with me 
and follow along the project from the very   first scoop of dirt to starting 
up the pumps for the first time.   I’m your host, Grady Hillhouse, 
and this is Practical Construction. The excavator is already breaking ground for 
the construction of this new lift station.   Sewers normally work by gravity. 
They rely on sloped underground   pipes to carry wastewater away from homes and 
businesses toward the plants that clean it up.   But, wastewater treatment plants are major capital 
projects, and we don’t build them everywhere. So,   there’s not always a treatment plant located 
downhill from populated areas.  In some places,  it’s necessary to pump sewage up to a higher 
elevation. That’s the dirty but critical job   of a wastewater lift station. This particular 
project is an expansion of an existing facility.   When it’s done, the new lift station will operate 
together with its neighbor here, increasing the   capacity of the sewage system as the surrounding 
area grows.  It will also create some redundancy   by allowing either station to be temporarily shut 
down for maintenance during periods of low flow. Because sewers work by gravity, they’re always 
sloping downward. So, the end of a sewer pipe is   usually deep underground. And that means this 
lift station starts with a hole, a big hole.   The bottom of this facility will sit about 
30 feet or 9 meters below the ground,   so this crew has a lot of work ahead of them. This soil is mostly clay, meaning 
it won’t work well as backfill.   Clay is difficult to compact, it shrinks 
and swells with changes in moisture content,   and it tends to settle over time. So,  the engineers on this project specified a more suitable  backfill material that will 
have to be brought in when the time comes.   For now, the native soil from this excavation 
will have to be hauled away in trucks.   These end dump trailers can hold 
more than 20 tons of soil each,   and it’s going to take a lot of them to 
carry all this clay to dispose of off site. One thing to notice about the 
hole: the sides aren’t vertical.   Safety regulations require that the sides 
of deep excavations be sloped to reduce   the chance of a collapse while people are 
working inside. But that presents a problem,   especially on a narrow construction site like 
this one. The deeper you dig, the less room   you have to work at the bottom of the hole, since 
the slopes take up valuable space. On this site,   there just wouldn’t be enough area to 
get the vehicles and materials around   the excavation if it were to go the full depth 
with sloped sides. So, this hole has two parts.   The first stage goes down 10 feet (or 3 
meters) and uses sloped sides to avoid   a collapse. The rest of the excavation will 
have to be supported using structural shoring.   These blue parts being unloaded from trucks are 
part of a slide rail system that will hold the   walls of the hole open as the crew continues 
excavating downward. The system includes steel   plates called panels and vertical rails that make 
up the four corners of the box. The outer panels   stay put, while the inner panels will eventually 
slide downward as the hole gets deeper and deeper. The first step of installing the shoring is to 
position the first outside panel. The location of   this first panel is critical, because the rest of 
the system will use it as a reference point. First   the crew puts a narrow bucket on the excavator 
and digs a trench for the plate to slide into.   Then the first panel is carried into the 
excavation to be placed in the trench.   It takes some trial and error to get the 
plate positioned in exactly the right spot.   Once it’s close, they use the excavator bucket 
to push the plate into the ground. And finally,   the trench is backfilled to hold the panel in   place with a few final adjustments from 
the excavator to get it plumb and true. The loader continues removing soil as needed,   and the crew works to stage more 
pieces of the slide rail system.   The next step is to install the first corner rail.   Once secure, the second outer panel 
is next. These steel plates snap into   the rail by starting at a 45 degree 
angle and rotating into place. That’s   easier than trying to lift each one all 
the way up and over the corner rails.   In between installing each 
component of the system,   the excavator and loader work together 
to remove more soil from the area. The crew hooks up the next corner rail 
to the excavator’s arm and lifts it into   place. (Try to ignore your lazy host 
eating lunch in the background there.)   Once it drops in, the excavator 
again works to remove more soil from   the hole. And now the third outer 
panel can be snapped into place.   It’s critical that this system 
be set up perfectly square,   so the workers take the time to 
measure everything carefully.   Then the third corner rail can go into place,   quickly followed by the final outer panel  and the final corner rail.   Now the system is locked together, but 
it’s not ready for excavation just yet. Once all four rails and outer panels are in 
place, the sliding inner panels go in next.   Where the outer panels will stay put to hold 
everything together, the inner panels will   slide down the rails as the hole is excavated 
downward, providing support for the excavation   and keeping it from collapsing. The crew has to 
work through a little rain to get these installed. It’s a lot of work to install this shoring, 
especially when you consider how it’s all   going to be taken right back out.  But, when 
space is constrained like it is on this site,   there just aren’t many options 
to manage deep excavations,   and there’s no room for error when it comes to 
protecting workers in dangerous environments. Once the shoring system is in place, 
the crew can continue digging downward.   The process is for the excavator to remove soil 
from inside the box while the wheel loader carries   the soil up and out of the way. As the bottom of 
the hole gets lower, the crew uses the excavator   to push the panels and the corner rails of the 
shoring system downward to maintain support and   keep the walls of the hole from collapsing. Sometimes all it takes is a little push,   and sometimes advancing the slide rails 
requires something a bit more percussive. As the hole gets deeper, the excavator 
operator can no longer see what they’re doing,   so another member of the crew uses hand signals to 
guide the operation. Every so often, the excavator   hammers on the inner panels to slide them farther 
downward toward the final depth of the excavation. When the hole has reached its final depth, 
surveyors descend to the bottom to do one   last check of the elevation. A mistake here 
would affect every part of the project,   so the crew makes sure their 
measurements are correct.   Once confirmed, it’s time to compact the subgrade. To make sure the underlying soil will serve as a 
strong foundation for the lift station wet well,   it needs to be compacted in place. There’s 
not a lot of room for heavy equipment in   this deep excavation, so the crew lowers a 
miniature roller compactor down using the   excavator. This machine uses vibrating drums 
with padfeet to densify and compact the soil.   It’s also remote-controlled so the operator 
can stay out of the hole while it runs,   keeping him free from diesel fumes that could 
build up in the small confined area. It’s not   the fastest machine, but it doesn’t take long 
at all to compact the entire bottom of the hole. The next step in the project is to place a working 
slab at the bottom of the excavation. This slab   doesn’t need forms at its edges, but it does 
need to be set at the exact right elevation. So,   the crew sets boards inside the excavation 
that will serve as a reference during placement   of the concrete. They use a measurement 
rod to get the elevation exactly right. This concrete pump truck 
arrives first to get set up.   It extends its outriggers for added 
stability. And then it extends the boom.   Before long, the first concrete 
truck arrives at the site.   But, before the concrete goes into the hopper 
of the pump truck, the pump has to be primed.   A lubricant is run through the pump truck to 
coat the inside of the pipes and hose. The prime   is discharged into the bucket of the loader for 
disposal, and now they’re ready to place concrete. Rather than trying to drop the concrete 
into place from above using a chute,   this pump truck makes it easy to put the 
concrete exactly where it needs to go.   The operator communicates with the finishing 
crew and controls the position of the boom.   Each new truck unloads concrete 
into the pump’s hopper where it   is pushed through the boom and the hose. Also known as a mud slab, the purpose of this 
working slab is to protect the soil at the bottom   of the excavation during construction. Without 
it, this clay would turn into a muddy mess in   the rain, making it unsuitable for supporting the 
lift station before the excavation is backfilled.   Since it’s only job is to serve as a working 
platform during construction, it doesn’t need any   steel reinforcement or a perfect surface finish. 
It just needs to have the minimum thickness as   required in the plans, and most importantly, to 
have the correct elevation for what comes next. The three-person finishing crew works 
together until they can’t fit into the   corner. One worker leaves, then two, until 
the last one is left to finish the job. Once the working slab is cured, everything 
is ready for the next step of the project.   And that next step is going to require a crane,   a big crane.  This 300-ton-capacity behemoth 
just showed up on site. It’s an all-terrain   crane barely small enough to travel on roads 
and highways. To reduce its traveling weight,   the crane comes with an entourage of flatbed semi 
trucks carrying outrigger pads and counterweights. Rather than sit on its squishy 
rubber tires during operation,   this crane uses outriggers to create a 
stable base and keep it from tipping.   These steel plates distribute the 
load from the outriggers so that the   underlying concrete doesn’t crack or break, 
and the soil below doesn’t compress too much. This crane also uses counterweights to balance 
the forces on the slewing ring. It lifts each   plate and stacks them behind the cab. Once 
the pile of counterweights is complete,   they are pulled into place using a hydraulic 
mechanism. Now this crane is ready for action. The primary component of this lift 
station is called the wet well. It’s   essentially a large concrete cylinder. 
Rather than cast the wet well in place,   this project calls for precast segments that can 
be stacked together like Lego. And the first one   of those segments has just arrived at the site. 
In the next episode, the wet well segments will   be swung into place by this huge crane, and lots more.   That’s next time on Practical Construction. If you’re wondering what you just watched, 
I’ll explain, but if you just want to catch   the next episode, it’s already live on Nebula 
at the link in the description. My favorite TV   experiences when I was a kid were shows like 
How It’s Made and Modern Marvels. I always   thought it would be awesome to see a series 
about how big structures are built from start   to finish. I kind of lost that hope when all the 
TV networks just started producing reality shows,   so eventually I just decided to make 
it myself. Practical Construction is   an experiment. It’s not like anything 
else you’ve seen me do. We got really   lucky to partner with the San Antonio River 
Authority and their general contractor,   who were willing to have our team on site, 
and we worked really hard to document all   the fascinating details of this nearly year long 
project. It’s something we’ve never done before,   and hopefully something you can’t find anywhere 
else. And, the best way to enjoy it is on Nebula. If you, like me, have given up on the TV 
networks but don’t want to give up on high   quality educational content, Nebula 
has got you covered. And unlike TV,   you’ll never see an ad or interruption 
on Nebula. You’ve probably heard me   talk about it before. It’s a streaming 
platform built by and for independent   creators. No high-powered industry executives 
deciding what projects get the green light;   just people like me who are passionate about 
a topic they want to share with the world,   even if that topic (like a 5-part series about 
sewage infrastructure) may not be the best fit   for the YouTube algorithm. And Nebula just keeps 
getting better and better: totally ad-free videos   from excellent educational channels, original 
series and specials that can’t be found anywhere   else, and even classes from your favorite 
creators like Sam from Wendover Productions. I know there are a lot of streaming platforms out 
there right now, and no one wants another monthly   cost to keep track of, but I also know that if 
you’re watching a show like this to end, there   is a ton of content on Nebula that’s going to be 
right up your alley. So I’ve made it dead simple:   click the link below and you’ll get 40% off an 
annual plan. That means you pay just one time,   30 dollars, for an entire year’s access to 
Nebula. That’s less than 3 dollars a month.   Help me show the world how 
cool construction can be,   and get the best viewing experience on the 
internet while you’re at it by clicking   that link in the description below. Thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think.