- Hey, guys, this is Austin and today my good buddy Matt is here to try and make a little bit of a different style of video. So, this right here is an Intel NUC. You may of caught a video we did recently talking about a very
unusual Nuc, but this is a little bit more of a standard one and at $400 your getting a core i5 your getting a thunderbolt
port there's a lot to like. Anyway so the plan is very
simple this NUC is actually pretty Hackintoshable this
is a quad-core Core i5 now with these Nucs they
don't come completely ready to go out of the
box, so we have everything we need except for the
RAM as well as the SSD Matt has already installed that but we have 16 Gigs of DDR4 RAM as well as we have a 500GB SSD, so. As far as putting that stuff together it's really simple, where
it's gonna' be a little bit more difficult most likely is you actually have to Hackintosh it. - So with this particular
model the Wi-Fi card and Bluetooth card are not
compatible with Mac OS. - That's pretty common for Hackintosh Most of the time that doesn't work. - Unfortunately with this one, it's actually soldered to the motherboard. - That's the thing with Hackintosh is most of the time you can get like 80% data but usually your going
to need like dongles or your going to need like a USB DAC or usually especially
when it comes to Wi-Fi just plug in a USB Wi-Fi card, that's supported by MAC OS,
but just to give a little bit of a context here right,
compared to a Mac mini so if we got the Core-i3
version which is quad-core so roughly equivalent 16 Gigs of RAM is which what we have in
here and then 512 Gigs SSD the Mac mini would cost
$1400 straight from Apple, this all in, is what $600? - $600, $650 tops for our configuration depending on the spec of, you know the brand of RAM
and SSD you went with. - The important thing is
we can actually hook up an external GPU to this guy so in theory we're getting iMac level performance for, a third the price, I mean
we don't have a monitor but - Yeah, yeah. - So one of the things you do need unless things have
changed you do need a Mac to do a lot of this setup right? - Yeah, so you have to
have an existing Mac which, have here then you'll
prep it with something called UniBeast which will
create a bootable USB drive - [Austin] Which is right
here already have it installed - As well as some configuration things. - You're definitely losing
some things when you're going with the Hackintosh
but just considering that this is smaller than
a Mac mini it should be roughly equivalent, and
we're talking about something that costs less than half the price I think it might be worth the gamble I'm just really curious
to see how it all works. First of all, shout-out to Quin, SnazzyQ. He had a great video on, was this ? - Exact model - The exact model of the NUC, so yeah. - His had less memory though. - Well yeah obviously
we had to be superior we can't do a lamer version of a video someones already done we had to do a better version,
otherwise it's stealing. So if I fire this up it
should start to boot right? - Yeah it will boot into
the Nucs splash screen first and then it should go into
the clover boot screen, which is how we are tricking it. - Damn that's the thing man,
I love doing Hackintosh stuff but like it's such a headache right, like there are so many random little issues that you run into I mean it's cool and I think
it's one of those things where it's maybe not like
a badge of honor for a nerd like oh I built a computer
I made a Hackintosh but it's one of those things
where you have to have some patience you have
to kinda' sorta' learn how to do it and be ready
to tinker on things right cause' it will break. So looks like we are
into the language setup this is slow process over USB 2.0 it literally took like 20 minutes to boot. (vocalizing) Oh here's a thing. - [Matt] Reboot and select
proper media boot device. - So I'm actually going through here this is recommending that we actually format it as Mac OS extended
as apposed to Apple file. - Yeah - Is that something we want to do? - Let's try that again. Alright so we figured
out what the problem was it was less the formatting
that was the problem but more that we didn't have
the APFS driver for the SSD. - So when we tried to boot
it just didn't see it. - [Matt] Because we're doing Mojave it needed additional drivers. - Which was literally we
just had to drop it onto the flash drive it saw
everything it booted up and now we are actually properly installing everything onto the SSD. - [Matt] Correct. - So in theory in nine
minutes we will have a working copy of Mojave. - We'll have a copy of Mojave, with almost no working drivers. - Okay it is day two and I
think Matt has made progress while I was not here, what's up? - It's mostly working. - Okay, so we see a Core i5
we see our 16 Gigs of DDR4 we also see our iris plus graphics. So the cool thing is this
Nuc does share the exact same processor from the mid spec Core i5 13" Macbook Pro. Mind you no battery no screen and stuff we're looking at $2200 for this pretty much exact same performance, and yet we got it for $600
and a couple sleepless nights for Matt, so what is not working? I see we're hooked up to ethernet,
is the Wi-Fi not working? - We do have an external Wi-Fi adapter but it's currently not
working, you can't actually restart the computer right now. - [Austin] So you have to turn it off and manually turn it back on? - Yeah, if you try and
restart it, actually go in the menu and restart it just freezes so you have to hard restart it currently. - [Austin] Do we have Gigpesh installed? - [Matt] We do. - Okay, cool let's give that a try. For the most part we now have a Mac that's up and running right now. - Yeah, you could I mean
if you're doing light tasks you could totally be using this system. - Oh wow that's really fast, 5020 on the single core and 17838 on multicore so
that's actually faster than the 13" Macbook Pro about 400 points higher on the single thread and
over 1000 points higher on multi thread which
kinda' makes sense because the 13" MacBook even though
it has the same processor It's a thin, small MacBook, so this has more cooling for sure. This is a Gigabyte RX 580, the 580 is one of the better
supported cards on the Mac OS. This is the exact same GPU
you will find in for example the 5k iMac and generally
speaking we've used this with Macs before
and it works pretty well. - Natively the 580 works in Mojave. - It shows iris plus graphics, so let's switch the HDMI over and see if this actually works. - When I tried this before
it did not show me that until I plugged this in. - GPU is spinning, we have
LED's, oh! Immediately. - Immediately. - Okay let's make sure this
is actually showing up RX 580 so we have external GPU we
have 16 Gigs of RAM 500 Gig SSD this tiny little box,
in the entire package is less than a Mac mini by a lot right? - Yeah, yeah. - And we're looking at, how
much is the 580 cost right now? It's like 400 bucks right? - I'm not sure off the top of my head, but it's a solid little
box and it's cheap. - This is exactly $400
and this is the higher end eight Gig SKU, so for almost exactly $1000 we have the NUC, we have 16 Gigs of RAM a 500 Gig super fast PCI
SSD and we have a RX 580, dude. So that my friends is
building the Nucintosh, now really the only next
thing we have to do is put this side by side
with an actual Mac mini which costs much more and we even have GPU and we will still be
cheaper than a Mac mini. Good job Matt, thanks for
doing all the hard work and letting me show up and what you doing? Oh no.