- Today I experienced the latest
in self-driving technology. - [Car Navigation System]
Advanced drive activated. - There we go, we're driving. Hit the track and Ken
gets stuck on a rock. - [Ken] Oh, I don't like this. Oh, I don't like that at all. - And it's all thanks to
our friends over at Toyota for sponsoring this video. So our friends over at Toyota invited us out to their headquarters
for HQ confidential where they announced a
number of new vehicles but they also gave me a
sneak peek at Teammate. To understand what makes Teammate special, you first need to understand how to classify a self-driving vehicle. Odds are the car you
drive today is level zero, AKA you, as a human have to do
all of the driving yourself. Stepping up to level one is
starting to become more common as it allows you to
remove yourself somewhat from things like steering
and acceleration. Think radar cruise control
that handles the acceleration and braking, along with
the lane keep assist to mostly keep your car
centered in the lane. Teammate is a step above this as it qualifies as level two. Here, the vehicle can not only accelerate, brake and steer but it
can also change lanes and even merge from freeway to freeway. - [Man] Just a very light touch. - Whoo, that is really, really trippy. I'm not doing anything
right now for the record. I'm keeping my hand touching the wheel, a very, very light amount of pressure so that it knows that I'm here
but it's doing all of this. There are a lot of sensors when
it comes to using Teammate. There's lidar, there's a number
of different radar, cameras. There's a lot of stuff
going around the vehicle but what it allows you to do, the driver, is to really experience what feels like a person is driving. I will say it is incredibly smooth. There are certainly systems
that have some level of autonomy when it comes to driving but I've found that none
of them feel like you're being driven by a person. It's always a little bit, how you're ping pong between the lanes. It never feels quite right. This feels incredibly smooth. Now, it is important to note that you, as the driver, still need
to be ready to take control at any time but for most freeway driving, the only thing you really
need to do is pay attention. The car can handle the rest. Teammate isn't some far future tech demo. While I drove in a prototype, this system will begin
shipping later this year. Switching gears a bit,
I also got a quick look at the Toyota bZ4X concept. This is Toyota's first
fully electric vehicle in a very long time. Since this is a concept,
sadly I couldn't drive it but it is on a fast track to production. The bZ4X should be on sale mid 2022 and I am very curious
to see how it compares to other fully electric vehicles. All right, so today is the fun day. So we're out here at Toyota HQ and the main goal today is to experience some of the fine Toyota's
that they've given us to try. Not only do we have a one hour drive in whatever Toyota we would
like, but on top of that, we get to do a little fun
thing called a track day. You've maybe never heard of
it but it's my favorite thing. The new Toyota GR86 is a big step forward, Not only does it look great in my opinion but it's also got a big
jump to not only power but especially torque thanks
to the larger 2.4 liter engine. And it also happens to sound rad. While I was waiting for
my turn in the GR86, I had to take a quick drive
in the very fast Supra. I mean, come on. How often do you get a track
day in someone else's car? All right, ready? And... Whoa, there's a lot of grip in the Supra. Woo and we're immediately coming around. God, it sounds so good. Yeah, there we go. Okay, tuck it in, swing wide. It's not a good line. Not a good line. I'm sorry, I can't show
you what I'm looking at but just trust me, it's very cool. And we're done. Wow, that's fun. That's fun. Okay, okay, whoa, okay. Here we go. I was, yeah. All right, how you doing, sir? - Great. I love that six cylinder Supra. - [Austin] Have
you driven in the GR86 yet? - I have not. - [Austin] It's just great. It is great. So you can't drive it 'cause
you have to be driven... - Yeah, yeah. - But Ken Gushi gave me
a ride and I was like... - Whoo, I want to see your face. - That's stock? - That's stock. - Wow, that sounds great, dude. - The power delivery comes
earlier now, 3700 RPM. - So I got a ride with
Ken Gushi on the track with the GR86. And the thing is there's
some major improvements with this car. First of all, I like the way it looks. When I first saw the
photos, it looked nice but seeing it in person,
seeing how they've really done away with any like, fake grills, like, all of this stuff is actually, realistically doing something
for the aerodynamics, same thing behind the rear tires. I think it's a good looking vehicle, especially with the spoiler
that comes on the premium model but with the GR86, this
is all about having a affordable, fun to drive sports car. And this thing on the track
was seriously impressive but there's a lot more
than just the 86 here. So now that it's starting to rain, it is perfect for the
next part of the day, which is going to be the off-road trail. Now I've been told that this very stock, SR5 looking Tacoma will
be able to make the trail. So we'll see. Ken, have you ever been
off-roading before? - [Ken] Nope, so this is,
this is a trip of firsts. - Wow, you've never, wait, so you've never been off road, like at all, at all? - [Ken] Well, I mean, I've
driven my Corolla on a dirt road. - [Austin] Wait
Ken, why am I driving? You should be driving if
you've never off roaded. - [Ken] Can I? - [Austin] Well, you know what? We've got time, we'll
do, we'll do two rounds. Oh, here's some, what,
water crossing time. - [Ken] Let's go. Yeah. - [Austin] I can tell all this, that was some deep stuff. - [Ken] You got the deep stuff. Oh God. - So I can tell there's
very little traction 'cause we don't have like
full mud tires on this thing. So like, I can feel like, as
I get on it, I just like.. - [Ken] We're sinking in. - Like, we basically can slip and slide, just sitting right here, straight flexing on it right
now we're straight flexing. It's smooth, right? Well... - [Ken] It's the best day of
work I've had in awhile. - [Austin] For someone who's never off roaded before, are you ready? - I am ready, This, oh my God, I can't
even see out this window. So I've done years of doing
off-road in video games. I think I can get this. Just as a slight note,
Austin is holding my phone. I trust myself to hold my phone more than I trust Austin to hold my phone. - [Austin] Do you want me to stick it out the window like this? - You can, there's just a
lot of sharp rocks under you. And I'm not, I don't have
a case on that today. We're not sponsored by
Rhinoshield for this video. That's a, that's a future video. - [Austin] You gotta,
you gotta punch it, okay? Commit, commit. - [Ken] Where do I punch it? When do I punch it? - [Austin] Go, go, go. Yeah. Those are cones, those
are cones, those are cones, ah, you missed 'em! Best of luck. - Okay, okay, I can do this, right? - [Austin] All the way up. - [Ken] All the way? - [Austin] Keep going, keep going up. Yup. - [Ken] Okay. - [Austin] There you go. Right, right, right, hard right. You'll pull all the way up, there you go. All the way up to the sky, yep, Left, left, left. Yep, there you go, there you go. There you go. - [Ken] Oh, I don't like this. Oh, I don't like that at all. Cars are not supposed to do this. Okay. - [Austin] You did it. - Yeah. - [Austin] Gnarly shot
of you with one wheel like three foot off the ground. - [Ken] Ah, let' go. - Huge thank you to Toyota for having us out here
and sponsoring this trip. And I am very excited to show you some of the other things that we'll be talking about very shortly. So make sure you stay tuned. I'm going to go up, borrow the GR86. I'll see you later.