- When it comes to
choosing a gaming laptop, Legion, alongside Intel, who
are sponsoring this video, have a different approach
for the 2024 lineup. So there's the Legion Pro 7i, which is focused on packing
in sorta that big performance, with up to an RTX 4090 and top-of-the-line Intel Core i9-14900HX. But this year, there's another contender, which I personally like a lot. The Legion 7i brings a lot of what's great about the top-of-the-line 9i to a more affordable price
point, and importantly for me, a thinner, more portable form factor. Speaking with the Legion
team, one of the main targets that they have with
this 7i was for students who needed a device that can
take on heavier workloads, like 3D modeling, video editing, and obviously, proper gaming, but can still be carried
around all day long. After spending some time with the 7i, I think the Legion team
have done a good job of cramming not only the power
of the Intel HX processor and some proper RTX graphics
in the package here, but importantly, they did it in a way where it's not an overheating mess. If you are unfamiliar with
the state of laptops in 2024, especially on the gaming side, just because you see the specs on the box doesn't mean an enormous
amount, because the cooling has an absolutely massive, massive bearing on the actual performance that you get. You can get the world's highest
end graphics card and CPU, but if it's not cooled correctly,
you're going to be left with subpar performance and
an incredibly toasty device. You need more than just cooling, though, which is why the 7i does come with a very nice PureSight 3.2K panel, which kinda checks all the boxes. 165hz refresh rate, which
is plenty for gaming. It's also an accurate and vibrant display, which you can rely on for accuracy. I mean, in one word, it's pretty. In two words, it's real pretty. It also is using the
newer design language, which means that it has
these nice squared-off sides, and they've moved a lot of the ports that used to live on the back
to the side for easy access. The nice thing about this is yes, while you're doing
gaming or intensive tasks for a long period of time, you will wanna use the big boy power brick that it comes with, but for everyday use, you can easily carry
around the USB-C charger, and it will absolutely
keep you topped off. Now, buying either of these systems, the power is absolutely one
of the main strong suits. So when you equip it with
up to a Core i9-14900HX, you've got some serious
firepower on board. 24 cores, eight performance
and 16 efficiency. The way to think about it is, you can certainly get good,
acceptable performance out of thin and light laptop that is going to easily fit in your bag. You're not even gonna think about it. Not a lot of people are
probably cross-shopping a thin and light and a gaming laptop, but with something specific like the 7i, which is a little bit thinner,
still a sixteen-inch device, but still a little bit thinner and a little bit more portable, it opens up the kind of
tasks that you can do in a way that, it's important. I think a lot of people are
gonna be much better served carrying this around
for four years in school as opposed to a thin and light and trying to max it 100% all the time just to get an experience
which is only a fraction of what this could deliver. Just like the big brother 9i, it's also outfitted with
Lenovo's AI Engine+ LA3 AI chip. It's a lot of buzzwords, but
it enables a few main features. smart FPS, scenario
detection, and smart control. It might sound like
marketing, but what it's doing is constantly scanning
what's on your display and tweaking the actual
settings behind the scenes to make sure that you're getting the best performance possible. All of that combined
with up to an RTX 4070, the 7i should be able
to handle pretty much any AAA game you throw at it. So jumping into a match of Fortnite, this is a good way to evaluate
a few different elements of the 7i. I mean, the first and the biggest is just the display, right? So it's a PureSight display,
3.2K resolution, 165 hertz. It's kind of a do-it-all system, because you've got the
thinness and the portability to carry it around with you all day. You have the gaming performance, with the cooling and the RGB and all the 165 hertz that you would need, but importantly, it is designed
to be good for creators. So you've got an SD card slot, you've got yourself a very
color-accurate display, which does make a difference, right? I mean yes, when you're
in gaming, of course, you just care about the frames and the response time and everything, but having a color-accurate
display does make a difference, even if you're just consuming content. And not to mention this
color in Glacier White looks so good. There we go, all right. That's how you beat
bots with the Legion 7i. Now, when you've got a gaming laptop with some high-end components,
it is going to generate heat. There's no way around that, but the way that you handle that heat can vary quite drastically. So the fact that they put so much emphasis on not only trying to improve the TDP, but also to do it in a
way which is comfortable, I appreciate. How many
kills am I at right now? Am I at six? This is a device which, depending
on how you configure it, obviously, can get a little bit pricey, but it is not going to break the bank. It is not going to be
an insanely overkill, expensive gaming laptop, and
when I think about something which is easy to recommend
for the long haul, you're not going to be spending
time with this and thinking, oh, if only I would've got X or Y, because you're not
really missing anything. Specs and gaming performance are important. I mean, we're talking
about a gaming laptop here, but I like the Legion 7i because
it is the overall package. I mean, it's a actually
pretty decent daily driver. Sure, it's a 16 inch laptop, a little bit on the larger side, but there's a lot going for it. So when it comes to everyday usability, there are a couple of things
I would like to see improved. So how long it takes to wake up. I think it takes a couple seconds longer than it really should. Like, an Intel Core Ultra laptop tends to wake up a little bit quicker. The other thing would
be a nice improvement would be the actual size of the touchpad. The touchpad itself is terrific, but this is something you're
using all day, every day. I think, considering
this is a 16-inch laptop, it could have been a little
bit on the larger side. But all this being said, these
are all fairly minor things, but nonetheless, areas that
I do think the Legion team could improve on. Now, the cooling system
is one of the things that really makes Legion
laptops so compelling, because with the 7i, what
they've done this year is they have two huge fans which flank what Lenovo
call a HyperChamber, a sealed chamber where the laptop gathers as much heat as possible
and forces it out the back. There's a lot of stuff
that they're doing here. So the fans are spinning
in opposite direction, which sort of concentrates
the air and pushes it out, and that alone brings the
chassis temperature down about two degrees Celsius, but it especially makes a difference on the bottom of the deck, meaning that you really
shouldn't be burning your wrists or your lap. One of the things that
makes that important is that the 7i is less
thermally constrained compared to a lot of other gaming laptops. You're pushing up to
25 more watts of power, meaning that you get way more mileage out of that Core i9 and RTX 4070. For all that, it weighs around
2.3 kilos, or five pounds. That might sound like a lot. Remember, that's how much
a normal non-gaming laptop weighed just a few years ago. It's very reasonable for a daily carry. If all of that is not enough for you, maybe you should go pro. If the Legion 7i is the
laptop that's designed to deliver solid performance
alongside portability, well, the Legion Pro 7i
cranks things up to 11. More powerful GPUs with much
higher TDP, up to an RTX 4090, more ports, more cooling, more RGB, I mean, the Pro 7i is for gamers who do not want to compromise. You want all the performance
and you want it now, and you want that
performance to be awesome for years to come. Now, the lack of compromise is really a theme with this system. You've got a 240 hertz PureSight display paired with the Coldfront
vapor cooling system, which is a ridiculous
up to 250 watts of TDP in extreme mode. The word "throttling"
is not in the dictionary or the thesaurus of the Legion Pro 7i. I mean, you pay for the
specs, and with this system, you are getting every single one. The impression I get is
that these Legion devices, while they aren't the flashiest, it's a forward-looking lineup. You know, they're expanding
it in a few different ways, but at the end of the day,
you're getting devices which should be reliable,
which have the features, which have all of the core
functionality you need, that, I'll be honest, aren't
always the most exciting. You know, I think about me as a YouTuber, I'm always looking for
something with two screens and some crazy nonsense,
but at the end of the day, what kind of gaming laptop
should you purchase? One that is reasonably priced,
that has tons of performance that will last you the long term, and that's exactly what
we're looking at here. Now, the Lenovo team are
expanding the Legion lineup in a few different ways, right? So on the budget end, they've
got their new LOQ brand, but also. they're
expanding the Legion brand with peripherals and devices that are sorta outside that normal PC beat. It just shows that Lenovo are trying to push the
gaming space forward in a different way than
other manufacturers are, and with tech like the
cooling, which again, pushing 200 plus watts of TDP or having these great
displays or the HyperChambers, there's good stuff that
they're doing here. And again, I want to give a
shout out to the AI chips, because they deliver actual performance, not just buzzwords, not
just marketing nonsense. It's, to me, and obviously, I'm biased, but to me, it's kind
of hard to not respect what they're delivering right now. Thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe
to the channel, and also, big thank you to the
Lenovo Legion team and Intel for sponsoring this video. You can check out both the Legion 7i and the Pro 7i in the description. and until next time, my friends
may, your RGB be bright, your frames be high, and
your lap not be on fire. From your laptop, of course.