- Hey guys, this is Austin, and welcome to Black Friday where we've got deals deals deals! And these deals today are sponsored by LG. This year they have not
only the NanoCell TV, but also the XBOOM Go
PK7 for nearly 50% off. You get big sound out of the XBOOM with enhanced bass, as well
as its been tuned by Meridian, it also supports aptX
HD, it's splash proof, you have up to 22 hours of battery life, and on top of all of that you've got the wonderful LEDs. Let me demonstrate. ("Nirvana" by Madeon playing) (laughing) Look, sometimes you just
gotta feel the rhythm. Gotta get into the music. You gotta let the music overtake you. Then there's the LG 65 inch NanoCell TV which has actually pretty
good support for gaming. You've got 4 HDMI 2.1 ports with support for not only
variable refresh rates, but you can go all the way up to 120Hz. You're getting great picture
quality with NanoColor, it has full array back lighting, as well as you got support
for everything you expect like Google Assistant, Alexa,
as well as Apple AirPlay 2. The XBOOM is typically $250 dollars, however it's now available for $129, and when it comes to the NanoCell, you're getting a full $2000
dollar price slash to $1099. So if you're interested in not only a TV but an audio upgrade,
definitely be sure to check these guys out at the
link in the description. And thanks to LG for
sponsoring my dancing. Let's kick things off with consoles, because there are a lot of deals here. But of course standard disclaimer, most of these are going
to disappear pretty fast so jump on the description
as fast as you can. So the first thing here is
the Microsoft Xbox One deals. Pretty much all Xbox One consoles are currently getting slashed in price. So the first one is the Xbox One X which is available for $350 dollars. That's not an amazing deal, as you can typically find the
One X for around $400 bucks, however, $50 dollars off
is still $50 dollars off. Now, quite a few retailers
actually have this deal but I would recommend picking it up from the Microsoft Store, as the deal has already started there whereas most other places will only be doing this
on Black Friday itself. There's also the Xbox One S with the bundled Star
Wars Jedi: Fallen Order for $200 dollars. Now this is maybe not
the most exciting bundle, mostly because the game runs really bad on the base Xbox One. However, for $200 bucks
it's included for free. However, if you're picking this up, while it's available at most retailers, I would recommend doing it at Target. Over there, they have a full $40 gift card that you're going to get
on top of the discount. So $200 dollars minus $40
dollar gift card, thumbs up. Maybe just use that $40
dollars to buy I don't know, a game that actually works. A little bit of a weird one is the Xbox One S all digital version. Now this is essentially just an Xbox One S without an optical drive. So it came out earlier this year, we did do a whole video on it. But put simply, I mean
there's really no sacrifice besides that, and at $150 dollars it is the cheapest brand new
Xbox One that we've ever seen. Now, you kind of have to deal with not using a disc for anything, so pretty much everything
has to be downloaded. But $150 dollars is a pretty solid deal, and this one is available at Best Buy, but I believe it's already on sale at the Microsoft Store right now. So over on the PlayStation side there aren't as many deals, and yet again for I think
the third year in a row there are pretty much no Black
Friday deals for the PS4 Pro, which I kind of don't get. It's like they just sell themselves at full price all the time and
they don't have to discount. Well anyway, what they do have
to discount is the base PS4. So for $200 dollars, there's
actually a pretty solid bundle available at most retailers. So you get a copy of The Last of Us, you also get God of War,
and Horizon Zero Dawn for only $200 dollars. So among everyone, it looks like Best Buy has the deal going live the soonest, and generally speaking
if you don't have a PS4, this is probably the best bundle yet as all three games are
absolutely terrific, especially if you don't have a PS4, I mean they're probably three of
the best games to start with. What you should definitely not pick up is the $300 dollar
Switch Mario Kart bundle. Now sure, getting a
free copy of Mario Kart seems like a good deal, however not only is this the
exact same Black Friday deal that Nintendo had last year,
but it's actually worse. So a few months ago, Nintendo brought out a
new version of the Switch called the red box Switch, or at least I call it the red box Switch. It's pretty much the same in all aspects, except it has almost
double the battery life. Which makes it an obvious no brainer considering that it is the
same $300 dollar price. However if you do this Black Friday deal, you get the old Switch
with half the battery life. So yeah, avoid this one,
buy a new red box Switch. It's probably not gonna be on sale, but at least you're gonna
get that extra battery life which I think is totally worth it. Now if we take a trip to
the Apple side of the fence, Walmart actually has
some really good deals. So the highlight for me is definitely the Series 3 Apple Watch. At only $129 dollars
for the 38 millimeter, and $159 dollars for the 42 millimeter. Now, I actually really wasn't a watch guy until the Apple Watch came out, and now I pretty much have
this thing on every day. It makes a huge difference to my life just in having notifications, the health stuff and everything. And this is one of the best prices for any of the Apple
Watches I've ever seen, especially considering that while the Series 3 isn't brand new, it is still totally recent, it's going to work with
all the latest iPhones. And real talk, if you don't
have an Apple Watch yet, this is a killer deal. Now if you're tired of that broke life, you can also pick up a pair
of AirPods 2 from Walmart for only $129. Now these to be fair
aren't the AirPods Pro, and they also don't have
the wireless charging case, but they are the most recent
version of the AirPods, and $129 dollars is like $30 or $40 bucks less
than they usually are. They don't typically go
on sale all that often, so this is a pretty solid pick up. Again, only available
from Walmart right now. But again, check the
links in the description for all of these things, because the prices bounce up and down as we get closer to Black Friday, as well as they sell out. Now one of my favorite
pieces of tech this year is the 10.2 inch iPad. Now, we did a video on
it a little bit ago, and at $330 dollars, it is
a really compelling device. You've got support for the keyboard now, it's got the slightly bigger screen, and at $330 dollars it's a good deal, however, most retailers now
have it for only $250 bucks. If you don't have an iPad,
if you have a really old one, this is a pretty solid upgrade. Now, I would probably recommend picking up this one at Target as they seem to have the
deal available first. But regardless, if you do want a new iPad, while there are some older
iPad Pros that are on sale, I personally really
like this iPad 10.2 inch at only $250 bucks. Continuing down the rabbit hole, Best Buy has some MacBooks on sale. So the MacBook Air is
now starting at $899, and the MacBook Pro is starting at $1099, both of which are $200 dollars off. Now, the MacBook Air is fine, but realistically, I would recommend going with the MacBook Pro. At $1100 dollars, not only
are you getting the version with the touch bar they just brought out, again, videos on all this
stuff will be linked. But not only do you get
that extra touch bar, but you also more importantly get the added performance
of the quad core processor. Now Macs are typically a little bit on the
premium side of the price, however, that MacBook Pro at $1100 dollars is actually I think pretty reasonable. Over on the Windows side, the Surface Pro 7 is already on sale. So Ken's actually switched
to this as his daily driver, and there's a lot to like. It's got USB-C now, as well as the latest
10th gen Intel chips, and these bundles all have
the keyboard included, which is typically
another $120, $130 bucks. So the Microsoft Store
has a couple of these, so if you really wanna
go on the cheap side, you can get the base model with the type cover for only $650. Pretty solid considering that that normally costs you $900 dollars, but I would actually recommend going up to the mid spec model, which while it is $800 dollars, has the type cover, you have the Core i5, and importantly, you're still
saving over $200 dollars compared to buying them separately. Now buckle up, 'cause we
still have even more deals. Actually, these are some
of the weirder deals, however, if you're
looking for a new phone, Target has the hookup. So, if you want a brand new
iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro, or iPhone 11 Pro Max, Target is currently offering
a $200 dollar gift card as long as you activate it with a carrier. So, not totally required, but especially considering that that iPhone 11 is only $700 dollars, a $200 dollar gift card
on that is pretty solid. Now if you wanna jump over to
the Android side of the fence, they have all kinds of
ridiculous gift card deals. So with the Galaxy S10,
S10+ as well as the Note10, you're getting a full $400
dollar Target gift card again, with activation. Target also has the Galaxy S10e with a $200 dollar gift card, the brand new Pixel 4, and Pixel 4 XL with a $300 dollar gift card. Probably one of the
better deals on this list. However, the most ridiculous one is hands down the Pixel 3. Which to be fair, is
mostly sold out on Target as well as in stores, but if you can track one
down for Black Friday, you'll get a $550 dollar Target gift card. Yes, that's basically the
entire price of the phone 'cause they really wanna
get rid of these things. - [Ken] Free? - $550 dollar gift card with activation. So all of these to be fair are
with activation, but I mean (laughs) that's a lot of... - [Ken] They're paying you to literally -- - They're paying you to take it. (laughs) Rounding out the Pixels, you
can pick up the Google Pixel 3a for $100 dollars off right now, available at Amazon and Best Buy, however, this deal does start on the 28th. Now the thing is is that for the Amazon deal as
well as the Best Buy deal, there's no carrier, so you
could just pick it up unlocked and do whatever you want with it. But if you do choose to pick
up the Pixel 3a on Best Buy, in addition to the $100
dollars you get off, you can also get an
additional $50 dollars off by activating it on a carrier. Up to you, but that
takes a $400 dollar phone down to $250 bucks, which as far as I'm
concerned makes it a way way better value proposition. Vetter balue proposition. Vetter better, better vetter. Better value. - [Ken] Faster, stronger. (laughs) - And those are the
best Black Friday deals that I was able to find this year. As always, definitely be sure to keep your eye on that description, as a lot of these will
definitely sell out pretty quick. And of course, huge shout out to LG for sponsoring this video. You can check them out as
well in the description. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go dance
with my XBOOM speaker in a place where Ken can't judge me. I can live my best life.