- This is an authentic
raced Formula 1 wheel. And today, I am building
a gaming PC inside of it. Now, this is not just any wheel. This is a wheel raced by the
one-and-only Sergio Perez, who we are going to be giving this PC to. And it's certainly not
a problem that his wheel has seen better days,
but I didn't do that. He did that. So not my problem. I'm gonna give it back to him
with some key improvements, like a PC that could play Forza Horizon 5. We're not just building a gaming PC. We're also packing it up, flying it all the way down to Guadalajara, Mexico to give it to Checo in person. So when our friends at Game Pass for PC, which has PC games, reached
out and wanted to sponsor a video on the brand new Forza Horizon 5, I knew exactly what to do, build the thing I've been
wanting to do for many years, but didn't have a good reason for it. (upbeat music) So I remember as a kid, my dad was always
watching Formula 1, right? Like when Michael Schumacher
won like a hundred championships in a row, like to me, I always have like really fond memories, but it's really only been the
last few years as Formula 1 has really sort of gained
popularity around the world, specifically in the U.S., that
I've gotten way back into it. I went to a race a couple
of years ago, the other day, a bunch of the guys, including Ken came
out and we all watched some races together. And Checo is absolutely
one of the top drivers, not only in the world,
but in Formula One, right? He's driving for the Red Bull team, which are arguably the
fastest team this year. I'm just so happy that
this is like an opportunity that we get, look, this
is a hundred percent, it's gonna be something
that I'm gonna tell my son, 15, 20 years from now, like, I'm gonna show you the time
that Daddy got to build a PC for Sergio Perez. And he's like, "Who's that Dad?" "I don't watch Formula 1," and I'm gonna disown him. But outside of that, it's gonna be an incredibly good story - [Jared] Wow!
- for other people Look, he better know, he's
like fricking three months old and I make him watch every
Formula 1 race with me. So he better know who Sergio
Perez is when he grows up. Hey, Jared. - Hey, what's up? I'm just curious. Did you have a chance to figure out our Forza video yet? - Well, I've spent the past day
or so since we've got it, working on it, it's been kind of a pain. As you know, most
computers aren't circular. - I can't, I can't, I got to get up. - Are you okay? - No, I'm not. I thought it'd be funny
if I like come in here, like this is a giant skateboard. - [Jared] You're gonna like flip it apart and hurt yourself. - But will it get more views? - That's true. Does that mean, I can,
- No. - I can help? (laughs) - [Austin] So we've got the wheel here. - [Jared] Yeah. - So it's actually in fairly good shape, like it's a little bit bent, but honestly, it's bent just
enough where it sits still. - Yeah, it actually helps us out a ton. It means we always have a
position that we know is up, so, you know, big shout out to Checo
(Austin laughs) for really helping us out there. - [Austin] Ah. - Ah.
(laughing) I don't know if we can. (laughs) - We're gonna run that one back. We got a decent amount of space in here. So this is really the
volume that we have to build the system in. - Yeah, it's a little
deceptive because you look like you got all this room around here, but when you're actually building in it, - [Austin] These guys. - even just these pins, this is pretty much the limit
of where your PC can go. So it brings it down to
about six and a half inches of space. In my attempts to max out the company credit card,
(blows air) we did buy that 3D printer. - Jared, part of the team immediately. (laughs) - But it's gonna be a big use. So we got
- Oh, whoa! - a very large printer
and we started designing this plate that's gonna go in there. It's gonna max out the printer's width
- [Austin] Yeah. - just about perfectly. It's gonna be pretty vertical. So the motherboard's
actually gonna be standing up in there in order to
keep everything to fit. With my preliminary estimates, we'll have a couple of inches
between the graphics card and the motherboard, which is more than you get in a lot of vertical-mount cases
- [Austin] Yeah, yeah. - that are already out there. So in reality, I think it will be cooler
than most ITX builds. - So no one tell Jared that I said this, but he's actually a really talented dude. Like Jared has a lot of talent, not only in sort of designing
and 3D printing stuff, but I actually have a lot
of confidence that Jared will figure this out. I feel very confident building PCs, but I do not feel confident with is designing and 3D printing custom parts. There's a lot of
engineering that is gonna go into this project. So I feel like Jared's got this. - [Ken] Look, I know that this is a video for Game Pass for PC. - Yep. - [Ken] But here, can you hold this? - I got you, I got you. What, where, where, oh my God, you're trying to put an Xbox Series X inside this, it's not gonna fit. - [Ken] What are you talking about? - [Austin] That, that is not
the build, that, you have. - This is an insult to
the three days of work that I have put into this. (laughing) - I don't want this just
to be a PC that we make for a video, Checo goes,
ah, ha, that's cool, and then it ends up in his trophy cabinet or something like, I want this to actually be
something that he can use, right?  Because this is a full-fledged gaming PC. - There are a lot of
moving pieces in this. One, it's the PC components, it's our ability to make stuff. It's the ability to get everything in, everything shipping there. The (bleep), I can't say that. - [Austin] Wow! - It also depends on Checo liking it. So also our emotions, there's too much. This thing is cool. - Yeah, so this is gonna be featured in a lot of future projects. You may notice that not
only is it a 3D printer, it's a 3D printer in a
box because this does a little bit more than that. This here is some laser-safety plastic,
- [Ken] Woo. - because this thing not only 3D prints, it is also laser engraver, slash, cutter, and a CNC machine. - [Austin] That's a lot of things, Jared. - That's a lot of things. It's three in one, it can do it all. Unlike me, this thing is.
(laughs) - [Austin] There we go,
that's the kind of spirit I'm looking for. (laughs) - This isn't gonna be easy, but I have a couple of ideas. And luckily I did take
some engineering classes in high school, so I might be
able to work my way around it, but I'm gonna have to shake
my rust off to get there. - For components, we're
almost ready with everything. So we did opt for Ryzen 5 5600X. So, as I'm building this right
now, we do not have a code, so we're actually building
this before the game is out. So we're just hoping that it runs well. But we do have one of the
smallest RTX 3060 cards we could find, which is
from EVGA, which this, I mean, we've tested this that it fits. I know it fits because look-see, fits. - [Ken] But does it work? - So we finally got our last
print off of the printer and this took about 40
hours total for everything to come out together, but now, we can actually start test-fitting things. - So, I noticed there are a couple, - We're not gonna worry. about these.
- Prototypes. (chuckles) - These are the experimentations
on how we were gonna get this to work. - And each one of these
took 30 hours to print. - Yes. So we ended up going through two of those. - So board is mounted something like this. - Actually, no. So what we're gonna do, it would not fit if we did it like that. - Oh! - It absolutely would not fit. (part clicks) - [Austin] Oh, wow! - And then slide back. And then, that's how you're gonna mount your motherboard. - Who needs to buy a case when you have a Jared. So the power supply is
one of the few things that we actually can screw directly in. We cut out the slot perfectly
for a power supply to fit in and
- [Austin] Look at that. - It will slide all the way to the end. - That is very nice. So we're going to mount it like this. Slide it back. - [Jared] Slide it back once it's done. There you go. - [Austin] Okay. - [Jared] And then we just
attach that PCI express bracket. - [Austin] This is a, this actually looks like
it might just reach. - [Jared] Now this is engineering fellows. If you thought it was all-- - Wait, whoa, whoa, whoa, it's bending, it's bending way too much, hang on. - [Jared] No, no, no, it's. - It's absolutely bending too much. - [Jared] So you really
want to put your hand in the way the drill? - Okay, fine, bend it, I don't care. - [Jared] Okay, all right. - It's just 3 more hours to print. (Jared laughs) - [Jared] That actually
would be really bad. - Yeah, exactly,
(Jared laughs) that's what I'm saying. - Are you having fun? I'm having fun. This is a blast. - I'm just hungry, actually. You want to go grab some lunch? Are you saying
- [Ken] Yes. that coffee doesn't fill you up? - I'm just jittery and full of caffeine. Let's grab lunch, we'll be back. - Good luck with this. - Wait, wait, so you're not, are you grabbing me something right? Like I get fed. - The new guy, am I right? (laughs) - [Ken] Oh, man. - Please, I haven't left
the studio in two weeks, please. (laughing) - [Austin] Look, that's
Josh's fault, okay. (Jared laughs) Josh is the one who's out here. - So at this stage, the design
and assembly process is done. We fully tested that the
parts work inside of the PC, that the game is fully running and that the 3D printed components not only fit inside the wheel properly, but we also have some spare
parts in case they break for whatever reason in transit. Now, it is time to undo
everything and put them in a fleet of Pelican cases and boxes, because they're going on a
plane and heading to Mexico for us to reassemble and present
to Mr. Checo Perez himself. - [Austin] So this is the
night before we leave. - Yes. And-- - We are sleep deprived. - But the job is done. - [Austin] Is it done? - Well, it's not done until it gets there, but that's not my worry anymore. (laughs) - [Austin] So we've got the wheel, which has now been stripped down. The only thing that's really
in here are the RGB strips, which are gonna fly with the wheel, which we're gonna put
in a box and check it, and hope that it Checos its way, all the way to Mexico. Okay, I'm sorry. - [Jared] You think you're
real clever, don't you? - [Austin] I do. - [Jared] Think you're
real funny. (laughs) - I hate shipping PCs. It is such a nerve-wracking experience. There's so many things
that could go wrong. A motherboard gets damaged,
graphic card snaps, something just gets bent. We're packing a PC and
then hand-carrying it, slash, checking part of it onto a plane, going to a different country. We have to negotiate
our way through customs and explain that this is a PC and not something a little more sus. We arrive and what 18 hours after we land, we're giving Checo the PC and going home. Like there's no room for error here. Good luck trying to find another RTX 3060 in Guadalajara, like. (blows air) - So we're in Guadalajara, Mexico to shoot with Checo Perez, but that's not the main
thing that he's here for. This is mainly a shoot for Forza Horizon 5 with the Xbox team. We are basically just
tagging along because Xbox has him for a little bit of time and they were gracious enough to
let us latch onto that for a little bit and present him this PC along with Forza Horizon 5. (car whirring) (tires squealing) - We need to head back over
to where our trailer is, get the PC set up, make sure it all works. So as soon as he rolls
up, we will be good to go. No pressure. Also, I feel like we're
actually in the game right now, like legitimately. (chuckles) It's really beautiful here. It is so nice. It is so nice. So we have about an hour to actually get the PC setup, connected,
make sure that the display is working. Make sure that the controller's working. Make sure that the game
is just fully functional. I want this thing to work. I want Checo to be happy. Like we spent so much time with this. Like we've got such a cool opportunity. I want him to look at this
thing and be like, yo, I don't know if that's the way,
he probably wouldn't do it, say it like that. I want him to be excited! Okay. I want him to be excited. I'm so ready right now. I'm so ready. Like, I'm so ready. You can still smell all the tires. (laughing) Hey, hey man. Hey man. - How you doing? - Austin, nice to meet you. - Nice to meet you. - I am very excited. Do you have any idea what
we're doing right now? - No idea. - No idea, okay. - Not really. - So we wanted to build you a special PC for Forza Horizon 5. - Really? - Yeah. So you might, this might
look a little familiar. Are you ready? All good. - [Ken] Yep. - All right, so this
is the PC we built you. - Wow! (laughs) - [Austin] So this is actually
in one of your wheels. - [Checo] It has the
number 11 and the flag. - [Austin] Exactly. - [Checo] Definitely mine. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly! You know, 'cause I was
thinking about like trying to find a wheel. I started looking around and I found one that was legitimately yours. I was like, I mean, it's perfect. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. Like I don't have another
shot at this, right? So I'm trying my best to
stay cool and show him the PC and hope he likes it, but on the inside, I'm definitely like, (loud shrill) would accurately sum
up the way I'm feeling. So basically, the entire PC fits in here, so we have this little,
like piece of acryllic that we can kind of take off and get a closer look. But basically it all barely crams in here, all the RGBs and everything like that. - Did you just bend it from here? - It may have come like that. (laughing) - It was from a crash
or something like that. - Maybe. - How did you get that wheel? - So, we found it on eBay. - No way! - We literally did.
(laughing) - This is one of the best
gifts I've been ever give. - Is it really? - Yeah. - Ah, dude.
- Thank you very much. - Man, what else can you ask for, right? Like (sighs loudly). You want to try the game on it? - Yeah. Why not? Let's do it. Ooh. (laughs) Wrong way, man. (Austin laughs) So, I'm in Mexico. - You're in Mexico, yeah. - Ah, you're playing there the dragster. - [Austin] Drag racing, yeah, yeah. - Drag racing. I used to go there when I was young. - Oh really? - Yeah, it's so popular in Mexico. You know, the drag racing. It's been so long since I'm
on a motorway in Mexico. - Oh really? - This really brings me back to it. - Does it? - Yeah.
- Oh, that's awesome, man. (quiet hip-hop music) Well, there you go. Yeah, see, never happened, never happened. (laughs) - That wasn't me. Who was driving. This is literally how I used
to drive in the motorway. - Is it really? (laughs) That's how you got your job? - [Checo] Yeah.
(laughing) That's why I don't go
anymore in the motorways. So cool, man. - You like it? - Love it, man. - Dude. - I have to take my wheel with me. - It's all yours, man. It's all yours. - I will travel with my
wheel everywhere I go. (laughs) - Just give me a call when it breaks. (laughs) Maybe I'll help you, help
you out with it. (laughs) - Do I need to disconnect it? (laughing) - You're like-- - [Ken] (laughing drowns out speaker) - We'll get it all ready for you. You're like, he's like ready
to go with it right now. (laughing) - [Jared] (laughing drowns out speaker) - I make sure that it comes with me. (laughing) Thank you, man. - Awesome, dude.
- Thanks so much. - Much appreciate it.
- Yeah. - Dude.
(talking in background) (upbeat music) Man, some days at work
are better than others. I'm so happy that worked. But come on, you know
you're happy right now. - [Ken] Yeah, I mean, He wanted to basically just grab the PC
(laughs) off of the table. - I'll admit, it's all yours. (sighs) - Overall this whole experience has been really, really cool. I mean, apart from just getting to meet the Formula 1 driver, Checo Perez, it was just a really cool
project to embark on, you know, Formula 1 wheels
aren't supposed to have PCs in them. Getting to make a PC for something that we're dearly passionate about, I'd say is not a normal day in the office. And is one of those
things where, you know, you kind of take a step
back and think, wow, that was a really cool, (bleep) job. - This has been like
three weeks of just stress and just hoping everything would work out. The fact that we got here, the PC works, that we not only got to meet Checo, but he likes the PC. (chuckles) Man, this is a good day. Thank you very much to
our very good friends at Microsoft, who of
course have Game Pass, which has PC games, including Forza Horizon 5, for making this all happen. Because like, (upbeat music) Now, of course you're
familiar with our fine sponsor, Game Pass for PC's, wide
selection of games with over a hundred titles available, many available on day
one and on top of that, you can sign up for Game
Pass for PC for only $1 for your first month. So what are you waiting for? I mean, actually, what am I talking about, you've already signed up. This of course, is a
continuation of our Game Pass for PC build series. Not only we already built
four PCs for Back 4 Blood, but who knows? We might just have that Halo
Infinite system coming soon. Make sure you're subscribed. I've been a huge fan of
Forza for a long time and the Horizon games specifically, but Horizon 5 takes it
up to the next level. Not only do you get to explore
the wide variety of biomes inside of Mexico. But you get to do that in open-world with an absolute ton of
cars with customization. I mean, it really is the most complete Forza Horizon yet. You can play Forza Horizon 5 day one with Game Pass for PC, link in the description. (upbeat music)