We set the zero hour for all 
clocks in the microelectronics   technology timeline at December 16th, 1947. The First Transistor. The Game Changer. The   foundation stone for all the 
technologies around us today. The discovery of the transistor changed 
everything. Born out of research for radios,   radars, and telephones, it overthrew the vacuum 
tube and brought us our modern world of compute. In this video, we look at the first 
transistors and how they changed computing. ## Beginnings AT&T and Bell Labs have long wanted 
a replacement for the vacuum tube. Vacuum tubes like the triode 
were first developed for radio,   and TV telecommunications, which valued their 
abilities to rectify and amplify signals. The tube underpinned AT&T's massive 
telephone infrastructure system,   but also strained it. In the 
late 1940s and early 1950s,   a single transcontinental phone 
call involved 12,300 vacuum tubes. These tubes mostly served as amplifiers to 
regenerate and retransmit phone signals that   had weakened while traveling through 
a copper line. But tubes were big,   expensive, and vulnerable to burning out. A 
broken tube soured the customer experience. So as early as the 1930s AT&T wanted something 
more reliable. One of the Bell Labs scientists   involved in this pursuit was William Shockley. 
In 1936, Shockley turned down several offers   from Yale and General Electric to join Bell 
Labs, working in their Vacuum Tube Department. Pre-war research followed the lines of the 
copper-oxide rectifier. A rectifier converts   AC power to DC in order to provide 
a stable power supply to telephones. What does that mean? A rectifier straightens the   AC power current - letting it flow freely in 
one direction while restricting it in others. Early on, a Bell Labs scientist 
recognized that these rectifiers   worked so similarly to how the 
vacuum tube amplifies signals.   Might it be possible to get them to 
work like vacuum tube amplifiers? So Bell hired the experienced William 
Brattain to work with Joseph Becker to   try to modify the rectifier's behavior 
to make it act like a vacuum tube. Those early experiments did not pan out. 
The team did not have the proper grounding   in physics. Furthermore, their work involved 
dirty and impure semiconducting materials. We   needed to work with something far purer. 
World War II helped make that possible. ## War When the war broke out, Shockley 
left to serve in anti-submarine   research and also oversaw the 
deployment of radar systems. He also later wrote an interesting 
memo projecting the human cost of   invading Japan, which may or may not have 
contributed to the atomic bombings later. In the early years of the War, the United 
States was a bit behind the British when   it came to the solid state physics behind 
semiconductor technology. But the sheer   scale of the resources that America poured 
into semiconductor research for wartime work   made the difference. There were 30 to 40 
laboratories dedicated to radar research. The most important and impactful work involved 
very pure germanium and silicon. In 1942,   a team of scientists over in Purdue University 
led Professor Karl Lark-Horovitz received a grant   from the US Government to produce 
point contact crystal rectifiers. These are called a "cat's 
whisker" detector because   it involves pressing a very thin metal 
wire against a semiconducting material. Note on wording. There is a difference 
between “semiconducting materials” - a   solid whose conductivity we can control 
- and what we today colloquially call   "semiconductors". The latter is more 
formally called a semiconductor device. As a potential component for radars, 
the crystal detector had advantages   especially in microwave wavelengths. But one 
disadvantage was that the cat's whisker part   often burnt out because of impurities in 
the semiconducting material. So the team   set out to produce extremely pure 
crystals of germanium and silicon. This work was assigned to a single grad student,   who worked with the Eagle­Picher Company to 
turn their byproduct germanium into pure ingots. Before the war, it was hard to get silicon 
ingots with even 99% purity. After the war,   American companies like the DuPont 
company were getting 99.999% pure silicon. For their part, Bell Labs set aside their 
existing projects for wartime priorities   in radar. Yet even that work stimulated immense 
progress in semiconductor research and production   from silicon diodes for modulating radio signals 
to silicon point contacts for radar detectors. ## Post-War The war ended. And in the spring of 1945,   Mervin Kelly was promoted to 
Bell Labs' director of research. Recognizing that Bell Labs' new 
leading position in solid state   physics could translate into potentially 
game-changing telephone technologies,   Kelly created several new research groups. 
These groups were interdisciplinary,   pulling together electrical engineers, 
chemists, experimentalists and theorists. William Shockley - fresh from 
his wartime contributions - was   made the co-head of one of these 
groups. Under his purview were the   aforementioned Walter Brattain 
and John Bardeen, among others. In September 1945, Shockley and Kelly 
visit Purdue. The work there convinces   Shockley and his team that silicon 
and germanium were the best material   candidates for what they are hunting 
for. Germanium more than silicon,   because they felt it would be easier to work 
with due to its lower melting temperatures. In January 1946, Shockley makes a prediction. If 
you were to apply a strong external electrical   field to a thin layer of silicon or germanium, 
then you can modulate its conductivity. Based on this prediction, we could 
then create a three-terminal device,   again like the vacuum tube triode. Let us imagine such a device. In two of the three 
terminals, you have a large current or flow of   electrons passing through the semiconducting 
material into one terminal and out the other. Now let us send a lower-current 
signal into the third terminal. If Shockley's predictions are right, then 
the signal going into that third terminal   can modulate the semiconductor material's 
conductivity in such a way that the large   current passing through the other two 
terminals comes out in similar fashion. So now what we have done is copy the 
lower-current signal onto a larger   current - amplifying it without using a vacuum 
tube. In other words, a solid-state amplifier. Alternatively, we can raise the strength of the 
lower-current signal to high enough levels that   it can shut off the current flow entirely. 
Then lower the strength to let the current   flood through again. Like as if it were a 
gate or a switch. A switch for 1s and 0s. Shockley called this the "field 
effect" and set out to prove it. ## An Experiment But the field effect experiments - carried 
out by Shockley's cohorts - were not working. Bardeen and Brattain worked well together. 
Bardeen was the brilliant theorist and Brattain,   a great experimentalist. When the 
modulation in the experiments was   far less than what was predicted 
by the theory, Bardeen had an idea. Bardeen suggested that the electrical field 
was not properly controlling the electrons   because it was being blocked at the surface 
of the semiconducting material. If the field   cannot enter through the third terminal, 
then it cannot modulate the current. Come up with an idea. Then come up 
with an experiment to prove it. So   the two started probing the surface of 
the germanium with two wires. Again,   the observed behavior defied 
theoretical explanation. After many experiments which I shall omit for 
brevity, Bardeen had this other idea. What   if you were to put the two probes very closely 
together? Brattain recalls in a later interview: > I accomplished it by getting my technical 
aide to cut me a polystyrene triangle which   had a smart, narrow, flat edge and I cemented 
a piece of gold foil on it. After I got the   gold on the triangle, very firmly, and dried, 
and we made contact to both ends of the gold,   I took a razor and very carefully cut the 
gold in two at the apex of the triangle. You then push the triangle very carefully 
onto the germanium. The experiment was set   up on December 16th, 1947 and they ran it 
that afternoon. Brattain recalls again: > I found that, if I wiggled it just right so 
that I had contact with both ends of the gold,   that I could make one contact an 
emitter and the other a collector,   and that I had an amplifier with the 
order of magnitude of 100 amplification That was it. With this deceptively simple setup, 
Brattain and Bardeen had created their solid state   amplifier - strengthening a small signal many 
times over. In his carpool home that night,   Brattain said that he had done the most 
important experiment he'd ever do in his life. Bardeen, a more quiet type of fellow,   only mumbled to his wife as she 
was peeling carrots in the kitchen: > "We discovered something important today". ## Keeping a Secret The team put the device into a circuit. 
And then a week later they demonstrated it   to AT&T leadership - who were able to listen 
to amplified speech in a pair of headphones. AT&T then kept the discovery a 
secret for a few months while it   patented the design. They also ran it 
by the US military - who saw it a day   after the AT&T demonstration. The brass 
considered whether to classify it - even   pondering another "underground" venture 
like the Manhattan Project to build it. Fortunately they did not. The general applications   for the device were simply too great. 
The news went out on June 30th 1948. The New York Times' first mention of the 
transistor followed a recap of a radio   show called "Our Miss Brooks" - a fascinating 
show starring the American actress Eve Arden. The Miss Brooks radio show was a hit. It 
follows the adventures of a school teacher,   and was lauded for portraying the everyday 
ups and downs of working women. The show was   later adapted for television, where it 
did very good ratings there as well ... Oh wait, we are still talking 
about transistors, right? Anyway, the New York Times article 
dryly says that the transistor had   "applications in radio where a vacuum tube 
ordinarily is employed". How understated. ## The Point Contact Transistor The announcement sparked 
a massive global rush into   the study of solid-state physics around the world. There is no doubt that the point 
contact transistor - as it would   later be called - is historically important. 
Yet its discovery was largely accidental.   And the team that discovered it was 
looking for something else entirely. Furthermore, most people at the time had 
no idea how or why it did what it was   doing. How was this amplification happening? 
Indeed, even a decade later when Bardeen,   Brattain and Shockley won their Nobel, the actual 
physics behind the device were not too clear. I will not try to explain it. Instead, I refer 
you to this fantastic IEEE Spectrum article   by Glenn Zorpette called "How the First 
Transistor Worked". I highly recommend it. As a commercial product, the point 
contact transistor flopped. In 1951,   Bell Labs’ sister company Western Electric 
ramped up a major production facility in hopes   of having it replace all their vacuum tubes. And 
by 1952 they were making 8,400 devices a month. But major challenges emerged. The device's 
operation depended on semiconductor surface   structures - making it extremely fragile 
and susceptible to surrounding humidity   and temperatures. Thus its performance was not 
consistent, checking its commercial success. ## The Junction Luckily, the Point Contact transistor 
would not be the only one of its kind. Bill Shockley had not been involved in 
that Point Contact Transistor experiment.   After eight years working on the topic, 
I shall euphemistically say that he felt   frustration at this as well as a competitive 
fire to blaze his own glory in transistors. Shockley also realized the 
point contact transistor's   weak prospects as a commercial device 
and that the theory behind the device   had not been fleshed out. This only 
intensified his theoretical work. While Bardeen and Brattain were demonstrating 
their transistor to Bell Labs colleagues,   Shockley was furiously making 
entries in his notebook. On January 23rd, he unifies several 
key concepts that had been floating   around with observations from the transistor 
discovery to create the junction transistor. Roughly speaking the junction transistor is 
made up of three sections of two types of   semiconducting materials modified 
- or "doped" - in different ways. The two types of materials are called "p-type" and   “n-type” semiconducting materials. 
The P-type stuff is doped so that it   has an abundance of "electron holes" - 
meaning that they can accept electrons.   So the electron holes are the "majority" 
carrier. The minority would be electrons. The "n-type" semiconducting material is doped 
to have an abundance of electrons. Thus the   majority charge carrier is the electron. 
The minority is the "electron hole". There are two types of this three-material 
arrangement - N-P-N or P-N-P. They largely   work the same way. The areas are 
called the emitter, the base,   and the collector. The base is always 
in the middle, kind of like a gate. The places where the N-type and 
P-type materials meet are called   "junctions" - which give the 
junction transistor its name. The critical thing that Shockley 
realized is that at these junctions,   the majority charge carrier - either an 
electron or electron hole - can travel like   a salmon across those two junctions 
from the emitter to the collector. In doing so, they flow through the entirety 
of the semiconducting material - penetrating   its surface - rather than just 
going along the surface layer. This concept is known as "minority 
carrier injection" and it is the   key concept to a device that is far more 
resilient and thus commercially useful. By manipulating the current going into the base,   we can control the flow of a much 
larger current passing through that   base. We can use it to amplify a smaller 
signal, or switch something on or off. At first, Shockley kept the idea secret. 
But then in February 1948 - before the   first point contact transistor was 
even publicly revealed - Bell Labs   physicist John Shive shared the results of an 
experimental point contact transistor he built. That result showed that the electron 
holes were moving through the entirety   of the germanium. Shockley saw Shive's 
results as proving his minority carrier   injection concept - and paving 
the way to a better transistor. Later in 1950, two Bell Labs chemists 
Gordon Teal and Morgan Sparks adopt   the Czochralski process to grow a long 
narrow crystal of very pure germanium. The Czochralski method involves systematically 
dipping a small seed crystal into a melt   in order to create a larger crystal. It is 
still used today to make our modern wafers. Using the Czochralski Method, Teal and Sparks 
could alternatively dope the germanium crystal   with P and N-type impurities to 
create P-N junctions. From there,   Bell Labs was able to bring out the first 
"grown junction transistors" in 1951. You can see why the junction transistor was 
immediately seen as a superior commercial   product. Unlike the point contact transistor, 
which necessitated these very thin wires   touching the surface of material, the junction 
transistor was a sturdy three-part sandwich. ## Shockley Triumphant Literally by himself, Shockley had crafted an 
entirely new page of semiconductor physics. Bardeen had been working with 
Shockley back in December 1948,   but critically missed the concepts 
behind minority carrier injection.   He had dismissed the idea because 
he thought the P-N junctions were   a high resistance barrier that electrons or 
electron holes cannot cross. He was wrong. A bit later, Shockley publishes a book titled 
"Electrons and Holes in Semiconductor",   which cements his place as the unquestioned 
leading figure in transistor theory. Bell   Labs began promoting him alongside Bardeen 
and Brattain as the transistor's inventors. Shockley - paranoid and infamously difficult 
to work for - blocked Bardeen and Brattain   from further work on the junction transistor. 
Furious, Brattain transfers out of the solid   state physics group and Bardeen leaves Bell 
Labs entirely to work on superconducting theory. Bardeen felt slightly better about things after 
winning his first Physics Nobel and they all   managed to have civil conversations 
in later years whenever they met. A year after that win, Bardeen drops 
the mike by releasing BCS superconductor   theory and Cooper Pairs, which wins 
him his second Physics Nobel in 1972. And to his credit, Bill Shockley 
always took steps to clarify that   it was Bardeen and Brattain not himself 
that discovered the first transistor. ## Transistor Explosion In 1949, the US Government had 
sued AT&T for antitrust violations. To settle the case, AT&T's Consent Decree not 
only barred them from doing anything other   than phone stuff, but also meant that they had to 
license their discoveries. The transistor applied. Thus various domestic and foreign companies 
with $25,000 could buy a patent license. In   September 1951, Bell Labs held its first 
symposium on how to make transistors. They also circulated a big 800 page book plus a   few samples to each licensee. They 
nicknamed it the "$25,000 book". The vacuum tube companies - RCA, General Electric, 
Westinghouse and Sylviania - recognized the threat   to their tube business and aggressively 
built up germanium transistor capacity,   coming up with new innovations 
for improvement along the way. Sometime in 1951 or 1952, General 
Electric and RCA discover the   "alloy junction transistor". This is 
where we melt together P and N-type   pellets of Indium and others with 
germanium to create the junctions. Manufacturing the alloy junction transistor was 
seen as far more scalable than manufacturing   the grown junction transistor. We do 
not need to alternatively dope a pure   germanium crystal as we are growing it 
- which is as much a pain as it sounds. In 1953, the first transistorized products 
started entering the market. I covered   one of those in a previous video - the 
transistorized hearing aid. Transistors   shrank the hearing aid and revolutionized 
the experiences of the hard-of-hearing. The news quickly spread around the world, 
and those countries tried to make their own.   France quickly had its competing "transistron", 
created by the scientists Welker and Matare. And Japan's Electrotechnical Laboratory 
overcame difficult conditions during its   Occupation to produce their first 
point contact transistor in 1951.   And then its first junction transistor in 1953. Japan's Sony Corporation went on 
to commercialize the transistor   radio. Researcher Leo Esaki won 
the 1973 Nobel Prize in physics   for the work he did there on electron 
tunneling in semiconductor materials. Amidst this explosion of solid state 
physics research and commercialization,   of course the transistor would quickly 
make its way into the computer. ## Computers
From the very beginning, people expected transistors to go into computers. And 
when they did, it would be a big deal. Typical computers in the 1950s 
had a thousand vacuum tubes.   Imagine if they could replace them all with 
transistors! The device would be smaller,   use far less energy, generate far 
less heat, and be far more reliable. But that dream was delayed as 
industries attempted to scale   up the production of reliable transistors. 
Early transistorized products still cost too   much. The first hearing aid - which had just 
one transistor - cost $229 in 1953 dollars. In November 1953, a team over at the 
University of Manchester fired up a   computer with 92 first generation point 
contact transistors. It is generally   seen as the first transistorized 
computer, though it still had tubes. Bell Labs and other companies, 
spurred on by the military,   poured resources into making 
more reliable transistors. The   commercialization of the improved alloy 
junction transistor and its variants - a   notable one was Philco’s "surface-barrier 
transistor" - quickly paved the way. In May 1954, the United States Air Force received 
the first American transistorized computer -   "TRAnsistor DIgital Computer" or TRADIC. It had 
700 transistors and was built to see whether   digital navigation computers can replace analog 
ones. Other transistorized computers followed. So in less than ten years, the transistor 
had gone from this fragile cat whiskers   thing in a lab to flying tens of thousands of 
feet in the air. Transistorized computers are   now considered second-generation devices 
- a clear line between them and the past. ## Conclusion
Near the end of 1954, Bill Shockley decided that he wanted to leave Bell Labs 
and go start his own business. He tells Arnold Beckman of Beckman Instruments,   who immediately recognizes the potential 
competitive threat and convinces Shockley   to set up his Semiconductor Lab within Beckman. 
Shockley - not a savvy businessman - says yes. On September 1955, he officially 
resigns from Bell Labs. That year,   Bell Labs collected 37% of all the patents issued 
in transistors. That declined as the former   vacuum tube companies aggressively entered the 
business. Bell Labs status as a pioneer was over. So Bill Shockley heads to sunny California. 
And contrary to public opinion and that   Malcolm Gladwell podcast, it was not 
because he wanted to be near his mother. Anyway. You know the rest. Maybe. Stay tuned.