(intense rubbing) - Ahh, woo! Heyo, it's time for Mystery Tech. So now that the table's nice
and warm and my arms are tired, let's see what we got in here, shall we? What in the actual (oof). Do I put my hand in this? [Off Camera] Yeah, this replaces
your keyboard for gaming. - I mean, it does say
new gaming experience. Okay, I'm not going to like this. I can already tell. I don't want to have to
learn something new, I'm old. So it's well-packed, I'll say that. Wow, there's a lot to this. Pull here. Thank you, you're more
helpful than everyone who helps me make Mystery Tech. (sad violin music) Oh, oh Lord! Wow, I don't like this at all. That's horrifying. This is horrifying! You cannot tell me this
is a serious real thing. How much does this
horrible hand thing cost? - [Off Camera] I think was like $300. - $300? - [Off Camera] It's been a
little bit since we ordered it. - Okay, give me the sales pitch. Why does someone need the
Azeron 40,000 buttons of doom special? - [Off Camera] You can't
ut a price on companionship through feel. (aww) - Sounds like you're speaking
from personal experience my friend. - The material that this is
made out of, like the buttons, feels like what would happen
if you cut your fingernails and just melted all that and 3d printed it out of fingernail. - [Off Camera] Why was that so specific? - I don't like that at all. - [Off Camera] We also thought
you'd like glow in the dark. - Why would you think that? You chose black and glow in the dark? - [Off Camera] It's not
even glowing in the dark. - I mean that doesn't
really glow in the dark. - [Off Camera] You can not
see it on the camera at all. - Hold on, let me charge
it up, let me charge it up. Today on Mystery Tech, I am
going to make questionable decisions with my new hand pilot 5,000 and we'll see exactly, ah, I was doing a gag with
dramatic effect. (beep) The Azeron finger (oof) 9,000. - [Off Camera] Whoa! - So if I plugged in
my Azeron to the laptop and the first thing is really
to figure out how it works. So as you can see the software,
it's not really pretty. You can see that as I
press on each button, it generally says what the maps are. So just right now, I'm going
to use these stock maps. Although it's pretty easy
to do now that the onboard profiles, but also you can build your own. It does feel fairly ergonomic. Obviously I'm standing
at the desk right now. So, you know, my wrist isn't
quite where it should be. But if I were sitting
at a desk or something, my hand feels very natural. - [Off Camera 2] So this would be perfect for like illustrators,
that have to rely on a lot of keyboard shortcuts
and different macros. - Now I have my handheld
controller set up working. So essentially what I've had
to do in Valorant at least is to get my thumb stick to work, I just had an emulate WASD. So if you want to switch
weapons, I can do that. Oh, look, this one's stuck, so this switch is actually sticking. There's certainly uses for
this, but where I kind of struggle is like, you could
also just get a keyboard that's like a separate row
of dedicated macro keys off to the left side - [Off Camera] But that's
not as ergonomic though. This in daily use,
after the learning curve could be more intuitive
than a proper keyboard. - I think the learning
curve is too aggressive. I've been playing for
just a few minutes now and it already feels pretty natural. I do like the feeling of
the analog stick paired with the mouse. I don't know if I've ever
actually really used a controller that had that in a way that
feels as natural as this does. Like walking around here
it's already second nature. I think it's largely
because if you've ever gamed on a controller, you're
using the exact same kind of muscle memory for that. You're just paying it
with a mouse as opposed to another analog stick. $300 though, I think that's
really my big sticking point. It's a very niche product. I think that's kind of
where I come down on. It is a very niche product and
it is certainly not for me. - Do you know what time it is? - [Off Camera] No one could see you. - Do you know what time it is? It's OLED time. (laughs) We got a sponsor from
mystery tech from one of my favorite companies in the universe, one of my favorite display technologies. What more could you ask for? - [Off Camera] A better host. - What else could you ask for? - [Off Camera] Another better host? - Are we ready to
extract the beauty the... Wait, we need to put it on the stand. Don't mind me, we're just
screwing in the base. The OLED! I should probably plug it in first. Do you see this image quality? Do you see the power of an OLED display? So you're probably familiar with LG OLEDs, but if you're not, there are
a couple of key advantages in my opinion, first and
foremost is the image quality. With an OLED, you've got of
course, a super thin design, it's easy to mount on ton of
places, all that kind of stuff, but then you look freaking great. So not only do you have
excellent contrast, I mean truly pretty much
perfect contrast because every single pixel of an OLED
is individually backlit. So we actually use this on a daily basis. Essentially all of our
systems have HDMI runs up to a 77 inch OLED on the
wall, which means that as we're finishing up a video,
as they're doing the color, we can see it exactly as we intend it. Now you're probably familiar
with something like this, an LCD display, which has
been around for a long time. But the problem is is that
you can't get that same level of contrast. Something like this, you only have so many individual dimming zones,
blacks were always kind of gray. With an OLED, blacks are truly black, which means that an image,
regardless of whether you're playing a game, watching a TV show or doing some content
creation always looks so much more realistic and lifelike. So I think what's pretty
clear to me, especially when you have an OLED beside an
LCD is the fact that you have so much better image quality, right? So a lot of the times what
we'll have is good gaming performance out of some LCDs, right? But what that has never
paired with is this kind of contrast, especially for a darker game. It's rare to kind of get
your cake and eat it too but that's exactly what
an OLED allows you to do. So F1 2020 is an excellent
game to show off one of the most important features of an OLED, which is the response time. So not only we were
running at that 120 FPS, we've got G-Sync and everything, but we also have one
millisecond response times, which is important in a game like this, where every frame counts
and every millisecond counts on your response times. Oops, did I actually hit
the restart button, oh no. If only my response time was
faster to not accidentally restart after I crash,
it's so weird, right? - [Off Camera] OLEDs can give you somewhat of a gaming advantage,
but not if you're Austin. - How dare you? How dare you. You want to display that
has all of the features for content creation,
watching content, gaming, the whole thing in one,
it is hard to argue with an LG display OLED. And of course huge thank
you to the LG display for sponsoring this portion of the video. If you'll excuse me, I'm going
to go do a little catch up and not crash anymore
cause that's unfortunate. I don't need to do that. Excuse me? Is this just a Pokemon sign? I'm mean to be fair, this
does look incredibly stylish from my Pokemon card
collection, which is available at nowhere cause I'm not selling. You remember the overclock media sign? - You guys had to make more signs? - That one petty much came at a deal. Where are we got it for what? $50 less? - How much was, okay, all right. I mean, whatever this is,
it's very lightweight. Oh, did you get a giant
Charizard card made? (laughs) This is base set, first
edition, shadowless? Oh yeah, first edition, baby. This is actually really, really solid. This is like, it's like
actually cardboard. Yo, and that looks so sharp too. You got the hollow foil,
look how good the art is. This is legit. And there's another one in here. Oh, there we go, we've got a
legendary collection Charizard. That is sweet, I always love
this hollow foil pattern. Obviously these are not
authentic Pokemon cards. Shock, awe, and surprise. How much does it cost to
get a four times larger than original Pokemon card? - [Off Camera] Like
100ish something bucks, it wasn't terrible. - Some might say that that's
$29,900 less than a real first edition Charizard. - [Off Camera] I don't
think that goes there, I think that goes home. We got this for you. You always say that we only
get stuff for ourselves. This is for Austin. - If you'll excuse me,
I'll be in my Pokemon room doing Pokemon things like a six year old. That's how old I was when I
started playing with Pokemons. It was a long time ago. That's a big box you got there friend. Okay, all right. Well, this side up. There's a wood box. We have ourselves a copy of Windows. That's helpful. This is excessive, this is
excessive, this is cool though. I like this. Oh my God, the whole thing comes out. Are you kidding me? Are you kidding me? Oh my God. That is a presentation friends,
that is the presentation. And this is a NUC? Wait, this looks like a GPU enclosure. There's a whole computers in here? I see a GPU and everything. There's a GPU in there. Look at this though, I'm
just impressed with the box. It's literally got soft
close, you see this? So this is an entire gaming PC. So previously we've taken a
look at some of the things. Actually I think we took
a look at it at CES 2020. It was the Razor Tomahawk, which was based on this
same kind of platform. And essentially the idea
behind this is that you have a very small portable
system where the entire guts of the computer essentially fit into one, like roughly graphics card sized system. - [Off Camera] you choose
whatever shell you want too. So like, if you want Razor,
if you want Cooler Master, whoever makes the shelves,
you can just put NUC in whatever you want. - Oh, look at that, wow. There are a few elements to this NUC. So first of all, we have three
fans, which are essentially, it's not radiator, but
we've got three fans that are setting on top, which
are helping for air flow. We have a GPU of some description. It's a 3060. This is probably closer to like 12 inches. You still need to stay
in the dual slot zone, but there's plenty of
space for a very large GPU. That is not going to fit,
that's not gonna fit. That's an RTX 3090, dude,
this is triple slot. Look how much it overhangs. - [Off Camera] Don't let that stop you. The main component of
the system is the Intel compute element, this
case is a core I9 11900KB, which is closer to
something like a laptop CPU. This is basically an
entire CPU and motherboard all built into one individual component. So now with the Beast Canyon NUC set up, there are a few observations I have. First and foremost, this
size is really nice. It's generally speaking
about the size of a lot of Thunderbolt GPU enclosures,
but you've got yourself a full PC inside. And that really is one of
the main advantages here. You can just say in three
or four years to swap out your compute element, drop
in a new, more modern one, and you'll instantly have
a ton more performance. This, just to give you
a little bit of context, as outfitted for the
review unit probably comes in about $2,100, so it's
certainly not cheap. And it does have a 3060
inside, which it's probably about the right level of GPU performance, But there are some cool features
with the Beast Canyon NUC. Chief among them is not only
do you have Thunderbolt, you have a couple of Thunderbolt 4 ports, but you also have 2.5
gigabit networking and wifi built in. But I think what most people
are most excited to see is how much performance
you can get out of such a small form factor system. This requires a lot of concentration. What was that? - [Off Camera] That's
just the AI playing dirty. - I guess the NUC is actually
performing really well though, unlike me. - No, how could you George? - [Off Camera] That's not George's fault, that's completely your bad. - We'll look, we can all
say the Beast Canyon NUC has lots of performance
and handles F1 well. See my benchmarking was successful. It's a cool little PC. It's hard to argue with
how much performance per cubic centimeter you get
with something like this, especially if you have the
power of William's behind you. - [Off Camera] No, sadly those
days have gone my friend. - Hey, wow, I was even ready for that one. Hello, hello and welcome
to the iPhone battery pack Magsafe edition. Wait what? Is this any good? - [Off Camera] Regardless of
whether it's good, I call dibs. - Wouldn't be an episode
of Mystery Tech without Ken immediately calling dibs on things. So I believe this is a hundred dollars. - [Off Camera] Yes, correct. That's, I would say the
not insignificant amount of money for a battery bank. Now what should make this
actually kind of interesting is the fact that it is
fully magnetically attached. - [Off Camera] And that
it matches my phone. - I like how you throw
every item of Mystery Tech clear across the table and
you gently rest your phone. - [Off Camera] That's the 512 gig model. That's the most expensive iPhone there is. I got to take care of it. - That's a chungus right there. Look it attaches. Revolutionary content
here on Mystery Tech. No wonder you've subscribed
and decided to ringaling the dingaling button to be notified of all your future
mysterious technology needs. It is pretty much exactly the right size of the iPhone 12 Mini,
which I assume means that it would fit just fine on the
12 Pro Max in fact it does. But actually that looks kind
of weird on the Pro Max. - [Off Camera] Here's the
thing, people are complaining about this thing, not to
defend it by any means, is it coming off? - I'm trying. - [Off Camera] As if people
are complaining about this and forgot that the
Apple iPhone battery case hasn't been a thing per generation. I think that this is pretty
much just the next step of that, but not supposed to be
any worse and not even that much better, it's
just literally a solution for the current phones that are out there. - Let me at least spend
a few minutes with this. Let me actually try it
here, I have thoughts. I am using this right
now with a later case. So there is a little bit of a
gap between the actual phone and the battery bank. That being said, this is fine. I don't think I would put
in my pocket like this. I mean, first of all,
it's a large chungus, but also feels little bit odd. So right now I'm gonna show
you, so if I've got my phone here and it not only shows
what my phone battery is, but also what the battery
of the mag safe charger is. So inside my battery widget
what it shows right now is that I am now charging
not only my phone, but also the mag safe battery bank. Now what's kind of weird
about this is that it does still use lightning, right? So if I can unplug the mag safe
and the plug into my phone, that theoretically it continues to charge. Oh, look at that, immediately
dropped down to 10%. What? Wait. Oh no, no, no, the Magsafe
battery bank is not charging. You see? So now I have the lightning
cable plugged into my iPhone. It is charging my iPhone,
but also it is then reverse charging into the Magsafe power. What I would actually do
through, if I were to buy this case, which I now
have in my possession, I would plug it always
into the battery bank because what you can do
with the battery bank, you can use that to help
condition your battery on your phone. So basically the battery bank
will always charge your phone up somewhat, but it won't
charge above, I guess, what was it like 90%. Which generally speaking,
you actually shouldn't really charge your phone to
100% if you can avoid it, it will help the
longevity of your battery. How big is the iPhone battery bank? Cause like this looks chunky
enough that I would hope it would recharge my
phone a couple of times. - [Off Camera] It is I
believe less capacity than the Anker, which wasn't
even that much to begin with. - 1460mAh. That's not even up to fully
charge an iPhone mini. That's like half a charge on a Pro Max. Really? - [Off Camera] Yeah. Again, this is literally
just the iPhone battery case in Magsafe form. - I'm not loving the thickness,
and I really don't like the fact that you're
spending a hundred dollars on battery bank, which can
in the best case scenario, charge what maybe three
quarters of an iPhone 12 Mini's battery or something? That's not a lot. Would you just be better off
buying either a third party or just a regular battery bank? Maybe.