- Today, I'm going to be taking a look at some of the biggest scams on Costco, starting with more clothes? A long sleeve shirt. I didn't order a long sleeve shirt. - [Jared] This isn't our pile of stuff. - Is this a romper? - [Jared] You're the one who ordered it. - I did not order a romper. It came in this package? - [Jared] It came in that
package with your name on it. - Jared, put the romper on. - [Jared] What? (laughs) - [Austin] Oh, you're
actually gonna do it? - I at least wanna see what it looks like. Honestly, I don't know what
a romper, what the hell? It's just a really long shirt. How would I look, would my mom be proud? - Give me an actual item, okay? - [Jared] Okay, okay.
- I got my Kirkland Signature Fit on. - [Jared] You want an item? I'll give you an item. - This has gone off the rails and we're seven seconds in the video. This is a Galaxy Book. Now you might not think immediately about Costco and computers. However, there was a time,
especially last year, when gaming PCs were really
hard to get your hands on. The Costco was the best
place to buy a gaming PC. So when we were looking
around for this video for interesting, cool,
unique products on Costco, the Galaxy Book Go,
absolutely, got my attention. Mm, na, nmm. - [Jared] Do you have
any words to describe it? - I have words, it's plastic. (fingers tapping keys) Not terrible, I mean, not a lot of flex.
- Oh my god! You say not a lot of flex, dude. I could eat cereal out of that. - Do you hear this?
(laptop crackling) That's the whole like chassis flexing. Not a great start. But for 350 bucks, if
this thing lasts all day, I can get away with the kind
of flimsy build quality, maybe. Can this play Fortnite? Can this play modern, triple-A games? - [Jared] I'm sorry, are
we trying to play games? - I am. Do not hit the Galaxy Chrome, I mean, Windows Book for 9,000. So this is just a whole gaming bundle. And this is the Boudica Gaming Headset. There's a lot of things that make a lot of sense to buy at Costco. Gaming gear, something I'm
a little bit questioning. If I recall, this was like medium price. It was like 100 bucks or something? - [Jared] This was 130. - 130 bucks, I'm not gonna
say that we got scammed, 'cause we haven't actually opened it up. But this stuff all needs to
be at least pretty decent. Like this keyboard, I will just tell you, 30 bucks maybe on Amazon, maybe. The keyboard for the record
is supposed to look very, very cool when I fire it up, okay. So I'm gonna plug it in. Everyone, ready? Ready, set and. Boom!
- Whoa! - Whoa! I just had an nefarious idea. I'm gonna say I've heard stories that Costco's return is generous. And if I were to say, oh, I don't know, purchase an item that was
of a below average quality, who's to say I would get scammed. - [Jared] You either die getting scammed or live long enough to become the scammer. - Ha-ha, wait, wait. - [Jared] Dude, what are those? - Why is this the world's biggest headset? - [Jared] Oh, dude!
(everyone laughing) It looks like you have
bulletproof ear muffs on. - It's 'cause the Sam's Club
police are coming at me. Now the mouse is also fine. It does have the selectable DPI. I'm not a huge fan of the way it looks. This little like orb
on the inside is fine. But, again, this is okay. But like, honestly, out of
the Velocilinx accessories, everything is okay. I don't think I have anything to say is egregious or terrible. I don't think it's
necessarily a good deal. You know, Costco, you
get a pass, totally fine. Let's just move everything
off to the side. 'Cause let's talk about this laptop. Very, very excited to try this, because it has been quite a while since I've tried an
ARM-powered Windows device. 350 bucks, not bad, right? And if you pull up the specs, it's got the Snapdragon 7c Gen 2. Eight-core processor, seems
fine, but it is super laggy. And one reason for that is it's only got four gigs of RAM. This should be illegal and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. I don't care if this is $350 or not. Four gigs of RAM is not enough in 2022. Look at this, look how slow it is. There we go. This is like absurdly slow. So look at this, this
is a HP 14-inch laptop with a Ryzen 3, eight gigs of RAM, double what this has,
120 gig SSD for $310. This is $40 less. I will guarantee you it
has better performance. Not only because it doesn't
have to do any emulation of x86 or x64 in the background, on top of that, it's just not so slow. Like I gotta say, I'm not feeling good about Costco right now. I mean, mind you, they obviously sell other non like Samsung
ARM-powered devices. But like I thought this would be okay. This is just bad. Subscribe to the channel for fun, happy content like this. Oh boy, aren't you glad
that your buddy Austin made sure that you didn't
make a horrible mistake and were stuck with it
for the next four years, 'cause mom sucks and she
won't get you a good laptop? Subscribe, otherwise,
you're living with this for the next four years. (upbeat music) All right, so these are
Skullcandy Crusher EVO Headphones. - [Jared] I don't know if I want crusher in the name of something I
need to put around my skull. - You know what you need? More bass. Feel the bass tune to you. Sensory bass headphones
with personal sound, aka scoop city, bass all the way up. Everything else? Nothing. All right, let's give this thing a try. How much were the Crusher EVO headphones? - [Jared] These were 180 bucks. - That's a lot, because these do not have any
like active noise canceling or anything like that, which is pretty common at the more expensive over-ear headphones. Word? That's actually got like that sort of like Alcantara-style
finish on the top. USB-C, nice, soft cushions. Oh, look at this, this is the bass port. Open or close, more or less bass. I mean look, Skullcandy, in my opinion, has a fairly poor reputation
for actually being good. But, I mean, this is checking
all the boxes right now. Okay, I'm connected. I'm gonna open up the Skullcandy app. It didn't make me create an account, A+. Actually, you know what? This is a nice little app, honestly. So it's playing a bunch of tones quietly. And it's, "Can you hear
this tone, yes or no?" And it adjusts up and down. I think my right ear
is better than my left. Yo, that's mad wrong. I'm gonna put this up to my mic. Listen to what it's doing right now. (sounds skipping) You hear that? If this does not pair
correctly with another phone, I'm gonna say that it is actually a broken set of headphones outta the box. I'll pair with an iPhone now to see if that works any better. If it doesn't work on
this, I'm gonna be upset. So it works on the iPhone. It does not work on my Z Flip. I have never had another Bluetooth issue of any kind on the Z Flip. Maybe I just need to pair and unpair. But that is a major red flag for me. So there's a little slider on the side. It's the bass slider or
whatever they call it. So with it all the way down, fine. If I turn it up, my head
is actually being crushed. Like it's like a
ridiculous amount of bass. - [Joanna] Well, it is
called the Skull Crusher. - I can't hear anything you're saying. I'm just in bass land.
- Okay. - This is the beginning
of "Hotel California," which is not a bassy song, yet. - [Joanna] Pick a song
that has like a ton-- - Good thumps though, like it slaps. - [Jared] I'm sorry, Joanna,
I was listening to you. (mellow hip hop music) - [Joanna] What, what is that?
- I'm vibrating the mic! - Oh, why? - If you think this is bad, you've gotta go check out
our new This Is video, which is coming out soon,
make sure to subscribe, where I checked out some
of the most ridiculous, outlandish things that Costco sells. This video is sponsored by Anker. Anker's new GaNPrime chargers are the most intelligent multi-device, fast-charging system they have ever made. Whew, okay, so what does that all mean? Well, for starters, their
self-developed technology allows for the chargers to be
53% smaller than competitors, making them lighter and
taking less space in your bag. And the range launches
with six unique products, such as the 733, a 65-watt charger with an integrated 10,000mAh power bank. Or these 737, a super
compact, 120-watt charger. You can even power your whole set up off of a single wall outlet using the Anker 727 charging station that combines 100 watts of
power with two AC outlets to ensure you'll never
have a dead battery again. You can also relax while
your device is charged knowing that Anker technologies,
like Active Shield 2.0, will monitor their
temperature and adjust power to make sure charging will
be as smooth as possible. Not to mention, Power IQ 4.0, which will detect every
device plugged into it and distribute power to ensure that everything is charging at max speed. You can see just how cool it is by checking out the link
in the description below. And, of course, huge shout-out to Anker for not only sponsoring this video, but for literally powering my devices. That was quite the mighty
throw for a mighty item. The MZ Skin by Dr. Maryam Zamami. Light therapy, golden. Is that not...
- Zamami? - Oh, Zamani.
(everyone laughing) It promotes accelerated skin rejuvenation while strengthening skin tone, boosting radiance and
reducing pigmentation. Wait, wait, you can't do that. You're reducing pigmentation. - What?
- That seems bad. - [Jared] Isn't that the whole
point is that you want that? Is this trying to make you like paler? - Yeah, that's what I'm saying! Just wait till you see this one. Let me open the box. Just take a look at what it looks like on the inside of the box. - [Jared] Oh my god. - It's horrifying. - [Jared] Dude, do not
look at me like that. Actually, you looked a lot friendlier now. (everyone laughing) - [Austin] This was expensive. Was this actually the most
expensive item so far? - [Jared] This was $380. - Let's keep this packaging nice and neat. Not that I'm gonna
return this or anything. Take a good, hard look for the last time. Ow, this is the worst fit I've ever felt. Ah! - [Joanna] Just the USB hanging out of the bottom of the mask, perfect goatee. - [Austin] I'm gonna
activate three, two, one. - [Jared] Well, you didn't light on fire, so I'd call that a win. - [Austin] What do I do now? - [Jared] Oh, why is
there different colors? - Everyone knows RGB is the
key to good health, Jared. Am I beautiful yet? Blue light will treat and calm me. Green light will soothe and balance me. Yellow light will rescue and relieve. And white light will
rejuvenate and refine. - [Joanna] How does
yellow light rescue you? (everyone laughing) - All right, so you can see on the inside, I mean, it's exactly what it seems like. It's a bunch of little LEDs. Like there's nothing special. I feel so rescued and relieved. - [Joanna] Rescued from what? - [Austin] Scams on Costco. - I know we just called this a scam, but looking it up online
in a lot of other places, this thing is like 580 bucks. So maybe we actually got a
pretty good deal in that case. - Jared, if this works,
instead of wearing a mask, I could just stare at my
RGB keyboard every day. It would do the exact same thing. It's a bunch of RGB LEDs. - It's that how gamers look so young? (Austin laughing) Well, it's okay, it's okay. If that didn't soothe you enough, it's not the only soothing
you're gonna have today. Because you also have.
- Don't ever say that to me again, Jared. So, next, I have the Sharper
Image Spa Haven Foot Bath. Ow, this is a heated spa
with massage rollers. Wait, is this the relaxation episode? It'll massage my tired feet
and smooth my callouses. - [Jared] This is a powerful,
anti-bacterial thing for your skin I guess. - What'd you call me? You know what would make
this more uncomfortable? If you literally duct tape to my head. - [Jared] We can make that happen. - [Austin] Wait, wait, wait, wait, no. No residue, we have to return this. I mean, potentially return
this if it doesn't work. Just do it before change my mind. Wait, my hands are in here!
- All right, we're on! We're on, how relaxed do you feel? - [Austin] Significantly less so now. Wish me look. - [Jared] You're surprisingly
dextrous with your feet. - [Austin] Thank you, let
me turn on the bubbles. Woo!
- [Jared] It's warm? - [Austin] Ooh, that's actually very warm. This feels weird. Wait, I'm gonna work on my pumices. - [Jared] Do you want your
hands untaped from your face? - [Austin] No, it's okay. - [Jared] Yeah, I hope
you realize you just like seriously helped out a
huge corner of the internet with this footage right now. - Is this what you're looking for? 'Cause if so, I'm sorry. All right, hang on, I'm
just gonna try to relax and calm myself. (sighs deeply) - [Jared] Feel the bubbles
take the stress away from you. Let that blue light shed
away the stresses of the day. - [Austin] Mmm, yeah, stress. - Om. - Can we still return any of this? Am I gonna grab the box myself? - Sorry.
- No, that's fine. I'll grab it myself. - [Jared] That's huge, what is that? - This is the Singing Machine
Wi-Fi Karaoke Pedestal. - [Ken] What?
- Connects instantly to home Wi-Fi. - This is the device of my people, dude. - The word karaoke was mentioned and Ken appeared out of literally nowhere. I haven't seen Ken in weeks.
- Oh my god. - This has Wi-Fi. This is already like brought
into the 21st century. How much did you guys pay for this? - [Jared] So this was 200 bucks. - That's not bad.
- That is really good for what this is. - And it's got a ton of different ports. So you've got line in, line out. HDMI, so you can run this out to a TV. And you've got like a sub and everything. But I just realized, we're about to get Content ID'd hard. - No.
- We're about to get the channel taken down.
- No, no, no, no, no. It's all MIDI. It's all just like
generic beats, it's fine. - Sorry, Mr. YouTube,
it's just generic beats. Don't take our video down. All right, activate Costco. Oh, and it's lit up on the bottom. - [Ken] This looks really nice for 200 bucks.
- 200 bucks. I bet this is running Android, 'cause it's taking a long time to boot up. - It's definitely not the Snapdragon 8. It was made in '21. - I'm gonna be so sad if this thing-- - [Ken] Oh, let's go. - Oh, things happening.
- [Ken] We're up. Oh, let's get ready to rumble! Okay, let's go.
- And turn that down. - Will the owner of the 1995 Honda Civic move your car. ("Hotel California" music) It's a really long interlude. ♪ On a dark desert highway ♪ ♪ Cool wind in my hair ♪ - Oh, there's a harmony. ♪ Warm smell of colitas ♪ ♪ Rising up through the air ♪ ♪ Welcome to the "Hotel California" ♪ ♪ Such a lovely place ♪ ♪ Such a lovely place ♪ - [Joanna] Round of applause, Jared. (Jared clapping) - Jared's just on his laptop not even appreciating the performance. - You gotta realize, I just had that entire
experience directly in my ears that entire time. - You should do one of your raps. This was played once
before on your account. ("Forgot About Dre" music) This is all you, buddy. Oh god.
- [Jared] I'm scared. - [Ken] Oh no. ♪ Y'all know me, still the same O.G. ♪ ♪ But I been low-key ♪ ♪ Hated on by most these with no cheese ♪ ♪ No deals and no Gs ♪ ♪ No wheels and no keys ♪ ♪ No boats, no snowmobiles, and no skis ♪ ♪ Who you think brought you the Eazy-Es, ♪ ♪ Ice Cubes, D.O.Cs ♪ ♪ Nowadays everybody wanna talk ♪ ♪ Like they got something to say ♪ ♪ But nothing comes out
when they move their lips ♪ ♪ Just a bunch of gibberish ♪ ♪ And (beep) act like
they forgot about Dre ♪ ♪ One day I was walking
by with a Walkman on ♪ ♪ When I caught a guy ♪ - Hit me, hit me. Come on, ow! Hit me with the product. - Oh, oh, sorry, sorry. - So Costco, wondrous place. You can get yourself some hot dogs. You can get yourself some tires. You can get yourself some industrial-size buckets of lubricant. But another thing that's very important you can get at Costco are the things that really
sustain you in life. Pokemon cards, yes, friends. I got not one, but two of the Single and Rapid Strike Urshifu VMAX Premium Collections. - [Jared] Those are just the same thing, but different colors. - No, one's are single and
one's rapid, totally different. Y'all wanna open some Pokemon cards? - [Joanna] Yeah.
- [Jared] Yeah. - [Joanna] It's that giant card. - You can have the giant card. - Okay, so first person
to pull a rare card gets a free-day vacation. - [Joanna] Well, what's
your definition of rare? - Nope. Oh, he got Full Art!
- Jared, Jared, Jared. Jared, Jared, Jared, why didn't you wait? Why, why?
- My one moment. The one thing I can be proud of in life and you weren't even there to catch it on camera.
- [Joanna] What is that? - You know what, I don't even know if we need this card any--
- What is it, what is that? What is that, what is that? Give it. - It's a Dancer.
- Dancer? - [Austin] It's a Full Art. That is a pretty solid pull. - Cutiefly.
- That's a good one. - Yeah, it's pretty good. - Lotad.
- Lotad. - Wait, wait, what's that in the back? You got something really
shiny in the back. - Oh yeah, I have this. - Oh, oh!
- She's so unexcited for it. - Oh! Do you see this? This the Alt Art Sylveon V. That is one of the best cards in the set. - [Joanna] This is a winner though. - I don't think that's quite the same. Isn't opening Pokemon cards more fun when you're with friends? All right, hit me. You know what? That was quite the throw, my friend. This is my little pal Grogu. Now toys-- - Are you sure that's not Gretchen? - [Austin] Did you say Gretchen? - [Joanna] Jared, what did you call it? - I couldn't remember his name
and so I called him Gretchen. - What's wrong?
- How the heck do you get Gretchen from Grogu? - Mandalorian and the Gretchen. That's a great series. So how much was this little Grogu toy? - [Jared] This was only 15 bucks. - [Joanna] I think even
if it doesn't do anything, it's probably worth $15
just for the branding. - Wow, toys have gotten
so much better these days. Look at this, you just have
to lift and pull the tab. Look that's it, it's done. Man, back in my day,
you'd be there with tape and little like twist ties and all. It'd take you 10 minutes
to get something out. Grogu, activate. - [Jared] Dude, he's fast. That's the power of the Force. - He's zooming.
- Dude. (Jared and Joanna laughing) - [Jared] Oh my god.
- [Joanna] What? (everyone laughing) - What is this? Wait, wait, wait. Let's put him on the ground. Let's let him run around.
- This is the best $15 ever. - [Austin] He's got real torque. - [Joanna] Oh no, oh. - [Jared] Yo!
- Dude, this is great. - Excuse me, sir, I think we need to exchange insurance information. - Run, Joanna, run!
- No, no, no, no, no! (everyone laughing) - [Jared] We've given
Austin too much power. - Because we have our brand new office, what better way to test things from Costco than by building basketball hoops. I was waiting to actually
do this on camera for the first time. And you guys are over here like being pros with this already. - Pros, pros.
- You guys, now. - Come on, Joanna.
- What? - Jump in, jump in. What, you can't do it
from behind the camera. Okay, ready, set, go. All right, Kinsey off to a lead. Uh-oh, I got you. Kinsey's looking unstoppable right now. - [Kinsey] Don't say that.
- There you go. - Too much pressure.
- All right, 10 seconds. - Five, four.
- No. - Three, two, oh! Joanna got it at the end! - [Announcer] Curry way downtown! Bang, bang!
(audience cheering) - So what did we learn today? That buying this from Costco was one of the only good
decisions from this entire video. Now I'm gonna make this over my shoulder and it's gonna be a great moment. Jared. - Whoa!
- Did I do it? - You made it, woo!
- Yeah! - You made it!
- Yeah!