- Hey guys, this is Austin, and today on Mystery Tech, we're taking a look at the
Vinci Smart Headphones Lite. A voice controlled, hands-free experience with a standalone music player, activity sensors, and
an immersive 3D sound. So it's like an iPod
and a Apple Watch built into a pair of headphones? This looks like the kind of material that like you use back in the 80s, like Back to the Future. Back to the Future? Yeah, yeah, there we go. There we go. I am waiting deep inside you. Touch my spark and let me light you. Give me life and I'll revive you. I am Vinci. SIM card! There's a legit SIM card
in these headphones! Are you serious? Dude, there's like a little keyboard on the side of your headphones. (laughs) Just putting this on for one second I can already tell the
right ear cup is very warm. That's not a normal thing for headphones. Ken, would you be so kind
as to connect my headphones to the internet for me? Its funny, every time you click something I hear the little
Android typing indicator. - [Ken] Stop moving. - Play. It just cut me off. Play J. Cole. J. Cole, J. Cole, play him. No, please. Play J. Cole. They sound decent. They sound like, maybe, a 50
60 dollar pair of headphones. Now, comfort wise they're
actually not going to be too bad. Mind you, I've only been
wearing them for a few minutes but they're not all that heavy. Especially this one ear
cup doesn't really feel like it's overpowering it. The main thing is that it's
just kind of warm to the touch but, wait, does this screen
stay on the whole time? That's totally gonna
drain battery super fast. Ah, well, apparently
there's a firmware update but the upgrade doesn't wanna do anything. The real question here is
how much do these cost? Because they are
definitely not going to be as good sounding as something like a two or three hundred dollar pair of headphones but the idea that you
don't even need a phone, like everything is going
to be fully integrated into the headphone is interesting. Matt, how much do these cost? - [Matt] Okay, so according
to Amazon: 200 bucks. - 200 dollars? - [Matt] Yeah. - That's actually not
going to be that bad then. If you pick these up you
really need to be committed to the idea of having headphones that are completely stand-alone. They sound decent but not
really worth 200 dollars. But you gotta admit this is
a very, very unique setup. Uh, my Game Boy? What did you give me my Game Boy for? Ken, what did you do that for! What, why would you do this! Also, yes! So this is all of the original
Pokémon games in Japanese. We got Green, Red, Blue, Gold, Silver. 52 dollars for Pokémon Green? Why did you just give
me a bag of baby hands? What does this have to do with Pokémon? What are you doing? - [Ken] You have to play like that. - I have to play like this? Aw man, I can't do it like this. I can't even get them on. Set of 10 finger hand finger puppets. This is a finger puppet? Hello little boys and girls. I'm totally not going to creep you out with my little tiny baby hands. Look, I can do this, I can do this. Fine, it's fine. (crew laughs) There we go! We got it, we got it! It's so weird. It looks like there's a team of babies picking up everything I touch. This is the most bizarre
thing I've ever done. Full stop. Not even just on Mystery
Tech, like in my life. The weird part is even
though it feels weird, in some ways it's actually
better than my normal fingers because I have these little fingers that are easy to grab onto things. This might be where my
baby hands are defeated. Enough with the baby hands. We'll use the baby hands later. Oh, dude, this is actually an original. Whoa it's got the original town map? Dude, that is so cool. I legit want to actually put this up. 1995 Pocket Monsters Green. So if you guys are not familiar, Pokémon Green was the
very first Pokémon game alongside Red, which released in Japan all the way back in 1995. Now what made this a little bit different is that we actually never got this here in the United States. By the time it came here
we had Pokémon Red and Blue which were far superior because
they weren't quite as buggy. (Game Boy ding) Aw man, it's fitting that
we're playing Pokémon Green on the original green Game Boy. I guess it's really not
green but that screen is definitely green. Pocket Monsters Green Edition! Alright, let's do it. Oh, no. You know what, actually? I think I know this game well enough I can play it fully with Japanese text. As a kid, my best friend
had a level 100 Pidgeot. He let me borrow it for a little bit and then I never gave it back. Actually, I remember I started a new game after I forgot to give
him his Pidgeot back. So, uh, sorry. Excellent! Suck it, Bulbasaur! Squirtle is in fact the superior starter. I should do more Mystery
Tech now shouldn't I? I'll finish this later. What do you have the hands on for? You don't have to do the hands. It's weird. So this is the Hidrate Spark
2.0 Smart Water Bottle. Something tells me this
is not going to be smart. I've been working on
this for over 20 minutes and my bottle is still
not connected to my phone because it doesn't find it. You bought a Staples Easy Button? - That was easy. - Okay, well anyway. This has gone wildly off the rails but my Bluetooth water
bottle is not working and I don't feel like
spending another hour trying to get it set up. So I'm just going to drink out of it like a normal water bottle
and ignore the Bluetooth because I don't need Bluetooth
water bottles in my life. Dude, that's not okay man. Why would you do that? That's messed up. It's like a creepy doll emporium. Matt, what are you doing? Retro Classic? Back-lit mechanical keyboard? It's so heavy. Wait, there's four of these? So we got the Retro Classic Elwood, the Artisan, the Onyx, and the Posh. So please tell me you didn't
spend 800 dollars on keyboards. - [Ken] It was a P.O. box. - Oh so someone sent this to us! This is a vintage, typewriter
style, USB keyboard that's not only wireless
but also back-lit. It's got USB-C, 6,000mAh battery, and it's got a genuine wood veneer. So I've seen some of these retro
typewriter style keyboards. Most of them aren't that impressive. This looks a little bit nicer. Dude, that looks so nice. Oh look, it even says Austin Evans on it! Alright, that's pretty cool. On the back, not only
do we have a USB-C cable, which you can unplug if you don't want to use it on wired mode, but you can switch it from
Bluetooth, USB, or off and you can switch
between Mac and PC here. So this is the fully kitted out version which is going to cost 220 dollars but if you don't want
wireless it's only going to be 120 or 130. Okay, so there's a wide range of prices. We'll drop the links in the description. So it is definitely going
to be a mechanical keyboard verses a typewriter. Even though it does have that retro look it doesn't have that same kind of punch of a real typewriter. With that being said, as a keyboard, even though the key caps being
round is a little bit weird, it shouldn't take you
that long to get used to. I'm actually kind of surprised. I don't know what to do with myself when there's a Mystery Tech that is not complete garbage town. Although, I gotta say there's oh.