Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen has 
recently proposed the lifting of   import restrictions on American 
pork products into Taiwan. The decision has become immensely 
controversial in Taiwan here.   And it has sadly become a partisan issue. 
Which means that people aren’t going to   look at the merits of the decision 
itself but instead its politics. In this video I am going to review the geopolitics 
and economics of the big deal of pork in Taiwan. On August 28, 2020, Tsai Ing-wen announced   at a press conference that Taiwan 
would lift bans on two things: First, beef from cattle more than 30 months old. 
This has more tied to mad cow disease fears.   Mad cow disease is less of a thing in the 
US, so it’s been generally out of the news. US pork containing ractopamine, a livestock 
additive. This leanness-enhancing drug would   be allowed in trace amounts. The amount is 
in line with the Minimum Residue Levels set   by Codex Alimentarius Commission 
in 2012 (more on this later) * 10 parts per billion in pork and beef meat  * 40 parts per billion in livers
* 90 parts per billion in kidneys Ractopamine has been banned from 
Taiwan’s domestic hog industry   (in line with China’s). This 
ban continues on as before. Per the Cabinet-level Council of Agriculture, 
the meat ban would be lifted on Jan 1, 2021. To support the domestic industry, the 
administration would take efforts to   label and subsidize domestic pork products - an 
industrial fund of $340 million was announced. Okay let’s get the hard stuff out of the 
way first. Let’s talk about the “science”. Ractopamine (I am going to call 
it RAC for pronunciation sake)   is what the majority of the press 
and industry has focused on. Note that ractopamine has been allowed 
in Taiwanese beef imports since 2012.   But Chinese and Taiwanese people 
eat a lot more pork than beef.   And that includes organs such as 
intestines, kidneys and the like. Why do pork farmers use it? Because it helps pigs 
gain more weight without more fat and it makes   them more money. RAC is fed to pigs in the last 
28 days of their lives. When added to feedstocks,   it binds to beta receptors in muscle cell 
membranes which then increases muscle fiber size.   Such pigs produce 10% more meat which 
adds some $2 or more of profit per pig. This effect has been widely researched over 
the past 30 years. The United States FDA   approved it for use in swine in 1999. The US limit 
is some 50 parts per billion in cuts like beef   and pork chops. Later the drug was 
approved for cows and turkeys too. Some 25+ other countries such as Brazil, 
Canada, Japan, Australia, Mexico,   and New Zealand amongst others also allow 
it for their domestic pig/cattle industries. RAC is banned for use in domestic 
pork industries in 160 other countries   including the European Union and Russia. One of the major issues related to this ban is 
in how RAC is fed to pigs shortly before their   slaughter. Other leanness drugs require a 
2 week clearing period before slaughter.   But since some 85% of RAC is excreted 
with very low level of tissue residues,   waiting 2 weeks would invalidate the 
point of using it in the first place. Thus, it can be that people ingesting pork meat 
with this leanness drug may exhibit some of its   effects, which seems to act like a stimulant of 
some sort. It is not shown to be a carcinogen. The international politics of 
food safety standards are messy.   When people say that RAC is internationally 
accepted, this is what it means. July 5, 2012. The Codex Alimentarius Commission, 
which was created by the WHO and FAO in 1963 to   develop food standards and guidelines, voted very 
narrowly to adopt Minimum Residue Levels of RAC.   This decision, made by a really 
obscure panel most have never heard of,   is frequently cited on both sides as 
a reason for and against RAC usage. I am going to briefly review the political 
wrangling involved with this decision.  The commission established an expert committee 
which reviewed RAC’s toxicology, residues   and intakes in 1993, 2004, 2006, and 2010. In 2004, it came up with the Minimum Residue 
Levels (MRLs) of the 10 parts per billion   that President Tsai is right now recommending - 
and which is far below the American FDA approved   level (which to remind you was 50 parts). In 2010, 
it reviewed the data again but for pig organs like   liver, kidneys and fat in direct response 
to Chinese concerns about high consumption.   The 2010 review again found 
the 2004 MRLs to be compliant. The EU’s European Food Safety Authority in 
2009 criticized the Codex’s studies and the   2004 MRLs. Most Wikipedia artists will leave it 
at that - which I feel paints a biased image.   Here is what the EFSA actually opined. The ESFA was not asked to produce its 
own study on RAC’s safety. It was asked   to make an Opinion on the Codex 
Commission’s sub-committee’s   science study. The EFSA opined that it 
cannot determine a Minimum Residue Level.   Not that RAC is unsafe or toxic or that the evil 
American pork industry is influencing the science. The EFSA made this opinion because of 
a component of the Codex Committee’s   study - a sub-study on the drug’s 
effects on human cardiovascular health.   This component assumed that most people would 
eat some 0-1 micrograms of pork per kilogram   of body weight per day, the Acceptable 
Daily Intake or ADI. According to the EFSA,   ADI should not be assumed to be those levels 
because there is a subset of the population   with substantially higher cardiovascular risk 
and they might be negatively affected when   eating these muscular stimulants. It requested 
a bigger study with more human study subjects. It is on this basis that the 
European Union continued to ban RAC   after the Codex’s eventual decision. So thus 2012, the Codex voted 69 to 67 (with 
7 abstentions) to approve the MRLs. Why?   The 26 countries already using RAC pointed 
out that it had been used for many years   without noticeable reported ill effects. And no 
scientific consensus has come up in the years   since when the original 2004 MRLs 
were proposed to overturn them. Of course, there were huge dissents on 
that. But what everyone could agree on   was that the proper procedures 
as set out by the Codex’s laws   had been patiently followed. 
Thus, it needed to be approved.   So thus it was by that incredibly tight vote. 
And you can think about what that means for you. Beyond its effects in humans, there are 
some animal welfare concerns as well.   RAC’s use seems to affect the pigs themselves. A 
2003 study funded by the USDA found that pigs fed   RAC beyond their fourth week tend to have 
elevated heart rates and increased stress   levels. It made them more aggressive and could 
lead to potential injury. This was also taken   into account by the Codex in its approval of 
MRLs of the drug - which is a recorded first. Taiwan’s exports-related electronics 
economy has been humming. A surge in   demand from the work-from-home economy has driven   demand for their semiconductors, 
electronics hardware, and accessories. August 2020 exports totaled $45.5 billion,   up for the sixth consecutive month 
and over 13.6% year over year. The United States is Taiwan’s second 
largest trading partner after China/Hong   Kong. Two-way trade between the two 
areas in 2018 totaled $94 billion,   half the size of trade between Taiwan and China. The US has seen the Taiwanese 
ban on pork/beef products   as a significant barrier 
to better trade relations. This is per the Office of US 
Trade Representative’s 2018   Trade Policy Agenda. It was 
repeated in the 2019 Agenda as well: ```
The United States continues to express   serious concerns about Taiwan’s agricultural 
policies that are not based upon science.   Priorities for the United States include 
removing Taiwan’s bans on U.S. pork products   and certain U.S. beef products produced using 
ractopamine and removing other barriers to U.S.   beef offal products.
``` So yes, this is a real barrier to establishing 
better trade relations between Taiwan and the US. Considering how strong Taiwan’s electronics 
and hardware industry already was though, I   wondered what a US-Taiwan trade 
agreement would be focusing on.   More laptops? Heavy industrial equipment. 
Could be. Nothing is off the table. But let’s put on our tinfoil 
hats and talk some speculation. Per the US Trade Report, it appears that the 
talks between the US and Taiwan authorities   were not centered on semiconductors, 
gaming accessories and laptops   but instead mostly medical devices and 
pharmaceuticals (and copyright things on IP). Taiwan exported some $680 million of items 
classified as medical devices in 2019. The US   has the world’s largest import market for medical 
instruments worth some $25 billion in 2018. Opening up America’s titanic healthcare market 
to Taiwan’s medical instruments industry   would be a huge boon for an administration 
looking to beef up that part of its economy. And then as for pharmaceuticals - this is a 
bit more murky and I am just drawing lines   between news items. So mark this with 
a especially big speculation alert. Starting in 2013 and continuing 
into 2016, China and Taiwan   attempted to achieve regulatory convergence 
in the approval of pharmaceutical drugs.   This would have supercharged Taiwan’s 
pharmaceutical industry as it would have   meant that drugs approved by Taiwan’s version 
of the FDA could also be automatically sold   into China’s immense market without needing to 
go through the approval process all over again. But things changed after the DPP took power and it 
appears that the pathway to regulatory convergence   has fallen through. Replacing the Chinese pharma 
market with the American pharma market would help   Taiwan’s pharmaceutical industry. But my reading 
of the trade report makes me less sure of this.   There are still substantial copyright 
issues that need to be overcome first. Okay, end of crazy speculation section. Ah, and one last thing. This is not a move 
by Taiwan to help Trump’s standing with   rural voters in the US. The ban won’t 
be lifted until after the election. President Tsai and her DPP party won comprehensive 
victories in the 2020 Taiwanese elections. Taiwan’s economy has managed to 
avoid a crippling recession in 2020.   Part of this is due to the greater number of 
exports as mentioned earlier. Another part of   this can also be tied to the bureaucracy’s 
effectiveness in managing the pandemic. These two things have bought Tsai 
a substantial amount of economic   and political capital. And it 
looks like she intends to spend it.   And boy oh boy, this decision 
is going to bring her some heat. First, there is the issue of the political 
opposition. In 2012 when the Codex first issued   its decision, the DPP was not in power - the KMT 
was. The KMT’s decision to let in beef with RAC   had caused protests. The DPP led the 
way in criticizing the administration   for doing so. So yes, her administration 
is going to look like hypocrites now. Secondly, there is the economic 
issue. When poorly done,   globalization can accelerate the hollowing out 
of an economy and encourage brain drain. More   competitive foreign products in a domestic market 
can snuff out jobs for people who need them. Taiwan is no longer an economy heavily 
reliant on exporting agricultural products.   Food stuffs do not even appear in the top 
ten and are less than 2% of total exports. However, its domestic agricultural industry is 
critical for national security reasons. Hong   Kong independence was and is impossible for so 
many different reasons - but chief amongst others   is the fact that its water and food supply always 
depended on friendly relations with the mainland. In addition, Taiwan’s economy 
is distributed unequally.   Many of the top performing electronics 
manufacturers are in the island’s North and West.   The economies of Taiwan’s more rural south 
and east are more agricultural and tourist   based. These are some of Taiwan’s rust 
belt areas and they need the jobs. The government is going to 
establish an industry fund   to help the domestic pork industry 
- which right now supplies some 90%   of the Taiwan market. And at the same time, it is 
unveiling a series of measures and cute designs   to make it clear to consumers when they 
are buying Taiwanese pork products. So that is good, but more competition 
is naturally going to hit the industry   and there will be consequences. It 
appears that the DPP is going to lean   on its electoral advantages in the South to 
maintain power throughout these challenges. This is a long and complicated video with twists 
and turns. We tried to analyze as objectively as   possible the risks and the benefits 
of this move as well as its costs. In the end, it looks like Tsai looked hard 
at the current situation and decided that   this move would achieve multiple benefits 
on multiple levels. Let’s see if it works. Alright I am done with this. I am 
going to go eat some pork rice.