- Cyberpunk came out
about two minutes ago. So, we have built an ultimate gaming PC to see exactly how far
we can push the game. So, let's see exactly
what an RTX 3090 can do when it's paired up with
the best that team blue has got to offer. So, starting out with, we have the MSI MPG SEKIRA 500X case. So, MSI has a number of
different lines starting with MEG on the high end, which
is for enthusiast gaming that's usually where you get
like the very high end stuff, but also they have their MPG line that is meant as the MSI
performance line of gaming products and that's usually where you're gonna find the best price to
performance worth getting some high-end gear
without breaking the bank. But they also do have MAG
which is MSI Arsenal Gaming. This is very heavy. (grunts) And MAG is where you get some more of the entry-level components when it comes to building your gaming PC. So, not only does this
have a removable bracket for your radiator, which we're gonna be
using a 360 mil radiator. But on top of that, you also have a very
nice little bag its in. Woo. Oh, dude wait. Oh, no. It's a glass rear panel, which means we have to
do cable management. So, we've got five fans pre-installed, are you kidding me? Oh, yeah. It has four LED fans and a chassis, right? So, four LED fans plus one non LED. So, powering the build, We have the CORSAIR HX 1000. I will say, I haven't spent a lot of time with the 10th gen i9, but I have heard rumors and stories that it will suck up about as much power as you can throw at it, which is nice because we have
a 360 mil radiator to cool it. All right. So, we're just gonna drop the
power supply in for right now. We'll plug in our cables later. Next up, we have the MSI MEG Z490 ACE. Now, this should have pretty
much everything we need, including not only a 16 phase power design but we also have dedicated FROZR coolers for our M.2 SSDs. And wow, that's...It's got some heft. So, not only do we have 2.5 gig ethernet but we also have wifi six built-in, which is certainly nice. And you do have coolers for three M.2 drives, which is nice. We're only gonna be taking advantage of one for this video. On the CPU side, we have the latest Core i9-10900K. Now, while yes, AMD versus Intel is a
fun subject right now but this is as high as it
gets on the Intel side. So, we've got a 10 Core CPU that can clock up to 5.3 gigahertz. That's a nice package. I'll give them that. Just set this right here. Okay. And so with that, we have our 10900K installed. Next up, we'll follow it up with 32 gigs of CORSAIR
Vengeance RGB Pro RAM. I'll say actually, for a lot of the builds
we've been using this year the RGB pro has actually been really nice. And even though it is completely and totally unnecessary for
what we're using this PC for, we do have only two dents here which means that we can
easily upgrade to 64 gigs. If for some bizarre reason we want to. Here we go, 32 gigs. DDR4 memory. Look how easy this is. It's almost as if I've done this before. Next up, we have the CORSAIR MP6000. Again, this is something that
we've used a couple times in the past. I think we have two of these in our ultimate AMD system. Two terabytes of pretty
much the fastest storage that money can buy. This thing will read at almost
five gigabytes per second. And one of the nice things about this is that it actually should be able to, even though it obviously shapes
this very large heat sink. I think we actually take that off and install it right here, because I believe that this heat sink
here should do the job. Put the camera down. I definitely didn't just screw this up and now I have to gently extract it. I slightly misaligned it, okay? So, the plastic shield removed. We should be able to
just rotate this around and drop it right back into
place over the top of our SSD. All right. I think that'll do it, okay. So, with our CPU, our RAM
and our SSD installed, next, let's actually get this
thing installed into our case. All right. Cool. So, that looks pretty much lined up. Now, we have our motherboard in place. That is starting to take shape. Next, let's get the biggest
of the chunguses of them all, the RTX 3090. With a ridiculously high TDP, I think three, eight pin GPU, like PCI connectors to power this thing. I mean, it is a monster. So, this is the RTX 3090. So, the entire thing is cooled by the TRI FROZR three design. Which you can see if you look at that heat sink,
it's a very unique design. You also have the TORX 4.0 fans and you've got those direct heat pipes which you can kind of see if you look in here. But it is enormous. I mean, it is hard to put into words just how big and beefy
this graphics card is. So, depending on how
you wanna do this build, you actually can use a
vertical GP right here. So, it comes with everything you need and has a little slot. Personally, I still like the look of a GPU that's mounted
traditionally quote, unquote, directly into the board. But that is an option if you wanna go for it. Now, with half our PCI slots
out or over half of them, let's install the 3090. So, essentially this
bracket still allows you to use the bottom PCI slots but it gives you a lot more support 'cause this card is heavy. Yeah. There we go. I'll definitely tan tighten that one. Next up, we have to cool our 10900K. So, that is where this comes in, our removable radiator bracket. So, we have a 360 mill radiator for this, but the question is gonna be, how are we going to mount airy? So, this is the MAG CoreLiquid 360R. So, with that 360 radiator, we're pretty much taking full advantage of the top part of this chassis. And it does have the RAGB fans. What I'm really curious about is how we're gonna get this mounted. So, first thing, let's
get the fans on this plate and see how the fitment is. I think it'll be fine. And then if it looks good, I'd
say let's cable up everything and actually drop it on the CPU. All right. So, I have the radiator mostly all set. So, it looks a little
bit of a mess right now but essentially we have all of our fans connected together, all daisy chained up and then I've got the low noise adapters. So, we'll just plug this
straight into the CPU fan. And then behind that, I've got
a couple of other cables run. Now, while I've been doing that, Ken flipped over our
top 200 millimeter fans. So, originally these were
designed to do intake through the top, which
makes sense if we were gonna be running without a radiator. But because we have the radiator, I'd rather have the air kind of flow up. So, it goes through the
fans, through the radiator and then exhausted out through the top. So, since we have a
push-pull configuration, plus we have these big RGB fans, which are gonna look cool. So, we're gonna have our RGB fan up front, here, three here, two on top. And then we will have RGB on the case and maybe a little bit on the board. I haven't actually fired it up to see. And then on top of all that, we're gonna have Core
i9, 3090, 32 gigs of RAM, two terabyte SSD, 1000 watt power supply. I think this is actually
gonna look really cool. (upbeat music) So, this is the completed
MSI gaming PC build. So, since we last spoke, we
have a couple of updates. So, we did end up going
with some extensions to get some slightly nicer
looking cable management. We also tuned everything
with surprise, surprise, the red, white, and black theme. Which I think actually goes really well with the colors of the system, right? I mean, you've obviously got
like the white MSI logo here. We've got our CORSAIR RAM. We also did some tweaking to try to get the levels
of everything right. The 3090, that LED is bright. That's at like 20% brightness right there. But I think it's pretty well sorted. What are my favorite
parts of the system now that we've got it all up and running? Listen to this, it's almost dead silent,
which is really nice especially considering that we've got serious hardware in here. Right? So, why don't we jump in to
some Call of Duty, shall we? And see... Oh, I guess I'll play campaign. So, it should be a
surprise to exactly no one, they were going to be playing
on full ultra settings with ray tracing enabled. So, we're already using the
MSI 34 inch gaming monitor, which actually has some
really nice features. Not only is it 21 by 9 and 144 hertz. (indistinct) Actually have
an integrated camera mount, so you can do things like
streaming right off the monitor. You also have this little
bungee for cable management, specifically for your mouse
or maybe your keyboard. You've got a webcam, as well as an ambient light sensor to adjust things like brightness, and you have your RGB strip on the bottom. So, even with full ultra
settings, retracing, all enabled, we're still getting like 100
frames per second right now. And obviously, that's a
testament to how ridiculously overpowered this 3090 is. Welcome back to present day. So, Cyberpunk has come
out about five minutes ago since we started recording this video. So, let's see exactly what
we can do with the 3090 and with that i9. High, high, high, high. Ultra, ultra, ultra, ultra, ultra. I want this to psycho. Disable copyright music. Nice touch. All right, we'll turn that on. I think besides that, we're good to go. So, let's see how the
system that we've built, the ultimate MSI system,
can handle Cyberpunk. We're pretty much at 60 FPS with anything on psycho,
including the ray tracing. This game is so demanding
when it is flexing a 3090. Oh, there we go. Dude, this looks so good. And we're nearly 70 FPS. They're like flexing that ray tracing too. It might not be quite as
noticeable when it's daytime, but you can see how like
natural the light looks. But just how filmic everything is like the softness really
does give it a lot more of that sort of like realistic look. I might sound really lame
right now, acting like, "Oh, look at all the
shadows and the stuff." But the thing is, Cyberpunk is, in my opinion, one of the real true
next gen titles, right? Sure. This is available for like the X-Box One, the PS4 and stuff. But specifically here on PC, this is the ultra, this is the max. This is where you can really flex, not only the game, with some of these next gen visuals, but importantly, you can
flex your hardware, right? I mean, we're looking at
an RTX 3090, a Core i9. And even that is really what you need to get this sort of psycho high-end ultra level of performance. So, thank you very much for watching. Feel free to check out
all the parts that we use for this built in the description. And again, huge thank you to
MSI for sponsoring this video. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm gonna go play more of this, without spoiling it for you. If I can figure out how to
drive the wrong direction.