- Gaming, gaming, gaming! At Apple's event where
they announced this, the 2023 Mac Mini, they were very clear on one thing, Apple Macs can game. Now, as someone who has
tried to game on Mac a fair few times over the years, I wanna actually find out, here in 2023, with the newfound power of Apple silicon and an Apple M2 chip,
can you actually game? To see how feasible this
entire idea is to begin with, I actually wanna start with
the lowest common denominator, a 13-inch 2020 MacBook Air base model. My theory is this. If I can game at all on this MacBook, then it is 100% going to be
better on a more powerful system like the Mac Mini or the new MacBook Pros or the Mac Studio or whatever the case is. If it works here, then it
sort of proves the case that gaming is remotely feasible. So first of all, again, I've
got my MacBook Air here, but I need some peripherals. Kinsey, what do I need? - Well, you're not gonna
game on a touch pad. - Thank you, I appreciate that. - And you're not gonna plug that in because the thing's got two USB-Cs. - I think for best results, I should probably get a power adapter. First up, we have what
might be the poster child for Mac gaming, "Resident Evil: Village." Now this is a game that Apple specifically
called out in their keynote, and with one copy purchased
from the Mac App Store, important because I think that you have to get the
Mac App Store version to have the full Apple goodness. The whole reason I wanted to do this video is cause I saw a Digital Foundry video where they looked at playing
"Resident Evil: Village" on M1 Macs on ultra, and
it was surprisingly good. They were really impressed. I was like, "Huh, maybe it's time I should give
Mac gaming a second try." I will say, this does look like
a more traditional PC game. So I've got a wide variety
of settings in the game. V-sync on. I'm gonna turn
that off just to see. And MetalFX upscaling. So MetalFX is one of
the main selling points of running a fully native game. Because essentially it's
very similar to something like NVIDIA's DLSS where we'll use some of that
neural engine processing to upscale your image to get surprisingly
close to native results but with a far better frame rate than if I was actually running at say like 1080P or something. So we'll try it. Supposedly, this is
going to be very helpful. Aw, it's a baby. Whoa. Whoa, did you see that? It literally loaded instantly. The loading screen was
up for like a second. So I'm playing it 1080P. I will say, I can see a
little bit of upscaling, but, honestly, the scene is
so dark, it does not look bad. But I will say, to my
eyes, this is very smooth. If this is the kind of
performance that you can expect out of a base model MacBook Air, it is incredibly impressive. All right, goodnight, baby. - [Assistant] Press F
to put asleep (laughs)? (Kinsley laughs) - If only were that easy. Now, next, I actually wanna try something that should work very well. "Dolphin" is an incredibly
popular emulator for a wide variety of devices,
and from what I've heard, it works very well on M1 Macs. So let's launch it. Let's see what we got. I'm gonna leave most of
these things to default 'cause I'm not entirely
sure how to set it up, but let's just see what happens. I mean, it's working. I will say though, running this at 3X resolution
looks really clean. Okay, I don't know how to do anything besides walk left and
right, but it's fine though. Frame rate, I will say
we're not locked at 60. We're losing a little bit, but, also, I can just not run it at three
times native resolution too. This is very, very solid. Now there are other larger games that are being optimized
for Apple Silicon, but that list is
incredibly small right now. "No Man's Sky" is something
that Apple has talked about that is on the way. But one of the actual best
ways of playing games, which are 100% certified to work, is actually again through
the Mac App Store, but playing iPhone and iPad games. Now, unfortunately, the majority of games that are made for iOS
and iPad OS do not work, but some do, including "Asphalt 9." Okay, controller connected. So I'm definitely playing
it in like windowed mode. So, wait, is really the only thing you do is you just hit nitro and then you drift? There's no other controls of any kind? - [Assistant] It's like
"Temple Run," but cars. - "Asphalt 9" technically works. Maybe not like a hardcore game, but we'll put that in the category of things you can do on a Mac. (wondrous music) (air whooshing) - Now Austin has clearly
forgotten one crucial thing when it comes to Mac
gaming, that's Apple Arcade, which can work on any Mac regardless of whether it's an M1, M2, even works on your phone. (wondrous music) - So now, my friends, we
have moved on to Steam. Oh yeah, so it automatically sorts it by games that are supported. So "War Thunder," "Rust,"
"Elder Scrolls," "Civ." I mean, there are a fair
few, "City Skylines." There are a fair few games
that do have Mac support. Now, I will say that a lot of what we use for this video was based
on the Apple Gaming Wiki, which we'll have linked
in the description. Let's start out with "Hades." Now this is a game that
is going to be running through Rosetta, correct? - [Kinsley] Yes. - If you're not familiar, Rosetta
is the compatibility layer that allows non-optimized
games to run on Mac. Now it's more than just games, right? A wide variety of software uses this. Although at this point, we're over two years into
this sort of M1 transition, most Mac apps are supported. However, most games are not. Oh, dude, this is completely fine. Now I will say without
my frame rate counter, I don't think we're at 60 here. Now fair enough, this is not the most
demanding game in the world. But considering that this is a game which was never designed to run on M1, the fact that we are
running through Rosetta through a translation
layer to make this work, two thumbs up. This is totally solid. - [Assistant] It says a lot about Rosetta. - It does. And, again, keep in mind
I got eight gigs of RAM, which is shared between my CPU and my GPU, meaning that none of these games
have all that much headroom to work with, and yet,
largely pretty good. Now, my friends, let's go a little spicy. A walk to the dark side, my friends. Using the power of Parallels, we can in fact launch Windows 11, which actually launched very quickly. In the past, if you wanted
to run Windows on your Mac, you used Boot Camp, which essentially would just create a separate
partition on the drive. So you'd split your SSD in half, and then you would have Mac OS or Windows, and you'd boot into one or the
other, and it was all great. However, when Apple made the transition over to Apple silicon, there was no longer the
ability to run Boot Camp. And for a little while there,
there was just no ability to really run Windows at all on your Mac. However, Parallels now has
surprisingly good support for Mac OS, specifically on
Apple silicon, and Windows 11. Now, the first thing I wanna
try is pulling up Task Manager. What is actually Parallel's pass through? So Parallel sees four of my CPU cores, four my Apple silicon CPU cores, 3 gigs of RAM, plus an additional 1.5 gigs that's locked off for my virtual GPU. This is not going to work well. I will tell you this straight up. Hello, what is this? - This is another SSD, that one that has Windows games on it. - Shout out to not having enough storage on our device either. Look, we're just trying
to make sure this works. You know, I will say before
we even get into gaming, this Windows install running on Mac, actually, surprisingly like not bad. "Skyrim," this seems like a bad idea. - [Kinsley] Hey, Bethesda. - [Assistant] Okay! - It's running in windowed
mode, which I don't like, but that's fine, that's fine. Is this actually gonna work? - [Kinsley] (laughs) Maybe. - [Austin] Oh my god, it works! Oh, it works! - [Assistant] Why is this surprising? - Why would this work? It's running in Windows
through virtualization! Like I'm legitimately
surprised. I did not think. I thought that we were
just gonna try this, and it was just gonna
immediately crash out. So to be clear, this was not
a plug-and-play experience. - [Kinsley] It was not. - Kinsey definitely had to spend some time making sure the DirectX functions here. - All of those kinds of DirectX and things that you might just automatically
have or expect to have on your gaming laptop or
PC would not be there. And so these games will be
like, "Hey, where's this?" And you're like, "Oh!" So that's definitely a consideration. - [Assistant] Yeah. - You're signing up for an adventure. - [Kinsley] Yes. - Don't come complaining
to us when it doesn't work. (Kinsey laughs) So we know what the
MacBook Air is capable of, and while it's not great, it's kind of better than I expected. Let's try gaming on the new M2 Mac Mini. So actually I have two
different Mac Minis to test. So the one that's connected
right now is the base model. So this is $600. It's got the M2 processor with 8 gigs of RAM and
256 gigs of storage. Essentially, this should
be a moderate step up from the MacBook Air. I also have an M2 Pro Mac Mini. Now this is significantly
more expensive. It is $1,300. But for that money, we get not only 16 gigs
of RAM and 512 gig SSD, but importantly, it has the M2 Pro chip. So I'm gonna start out by
playing "Resident Evil: Village," which again, ran fairly
well on the MacBook Air. We also now have an
actual heads up display, which is going to give us
our frame rate and whatnot, which is gonna be helpful
because last time, I was kind of playing in
the dark, quite literally. Let's just leave it on
the exact same settings it was on the MacBook Air. 1080P, medium settings
with MetalFX upscaling. Seems reasonable. Okay, instantly on the Mac Mini, we are pushing 93 frames per second. Wow, that's smooth. Yeah, so looking at the baby, especially when you look at
like the texture and the hair, I mean, that's still pretty good. You know what I'ma do? - [Kinsley] Turn it up. - I'm gonna turn it up, exactly. Let's see what we can do here. I'm gonna just turn off the upscaling. Our frame rate has dipped, but still it's 60 to 70 FPS right now. And mind you, I will say, perceptively, I mean, maybe if I look
at the baby's hair, yeah, it's like a little bit more detail. But running that MetalFX
upscaling is not bad. I would play more, but I'm scared. I don't, it's too spooky.
(spooky music) It's too spooky. Next up, we are going to attempt to play "Euro Truck Simulator 2." This is a game which is not optimized. So this is a Mac game, but
it's running via Rosetta. So we'll see what we got. - [Kinsley] You're currently on a mission to deliver some concrete stairs. (laughs) - Concrete stairs, okay, well
the stairs must be delivered. So we are running at 1080P
on high settings here, and we've got 50 frames per second. If I was a little bit
more serious about this, I'd probably turn the
graphic settings down just a little bit 'cause it does seem like
there's a little bit of latency. I also would not be using
W-A-S-D to control my truck on the streets of Europe? - [Kinsley] Luxembourg. (laughs) - Luxembourg, my favorite
of the European cities. So one of the big advantages of going from the MacBook
Air to the Mac Mini, in addition to the fact that the M2 is just an
upgrade over the M1, is actually more so in the cooling. So with the MacBook Air,
there's no fan whatsoever. So while it had pretty decent performance, you know, we were obviously gaming for a longer period of time, we were certainly leaving
a little bit on the table. But with this Mac Mini with an actual fan, we should be able to play like
this, I mean, in perpetuity. What I really wanna do is
fire up the M2 Pro Mac Mini 'cause remember, this has not
only a lot more performance with the M2 Pro chip, but
almost more importantly, it's got 16 gigs of RAM, which means that some of
those Parallels issues we are dealing with earlier
should be much less noticeable. Alright, we have got
ourselves a copy of Windows 11 running in Parallels now. Now I'm curious if we
open up Task Manager, before I think we had, what was it? Like three or four gigabytes
of RAM for Windows. It was not a lot. This time, Windows now has 6
gigabytes of RAM to play with, and the GPU looks like it has, yeah, 3 gigs as well, which is shared. That is gonna be a big difference. Another upgrade with the M2 PRO is that it's got a HDMI 2.1 port, which means that I'm
pushing 4K at 144 hertz on this monitor right now. I'm not gonna game it 4K 144, but I could. I will just take 30 though. (laughs) So we're gonna try to launch "Skyrim" at 1080P, medium settings,
with TAA enabled. So let's do it. Before, I would say, we were running at like 480P or 554P and
like less than 30 FPS. Oh, okay, that's better. Wow! - Wow! - This actually works! You can really run "Skyrim" on anything! Like, okay, yeah, maybe
we're dipping a little to like the low 50s when I
like start looking around, but like compared to
where the Mac Air was, this is a night and day difference. We can actually play Windows
games via Parallel on a Mac. (air whooshing) The proof of concept is here. There's really only one
more thing left to try. Yes, my friends, it is time to build ourselves
a PC in Windows on our Mac. (laughs) It's a little dumb. So "PC Build Simulator" is
defaulting to ultra at 1440. Sure, and this is at, look that. We're getting 40, 50 frames per second. Well, okay, a little choppy. And by a little choppy,
I mean very choppy. You know what? I'm gonna
be honest with you. I've never played "PC
Build Simulator," ever. I'm gonna use the computer. Whoa, whoa, whoa, hold on, hold on. Lemme just wrap my head
around this for a second. (Kinsey laughs)
Okay. So I am using Windows in a game
running on Windows on a Mac. (Austin laughs) Now I'm gonna go back out to my finder. (laughs) Oh, this is great. This is great. Look, am I gonna tell you that you should go out
and buy a Mac to game? No, I am not. But if you would've asked me a year ago, "Could I game on Mac,"
especially with Apple silicon, my answer would've generally
been, "Not really." I would like to see, a year
from now or two years from now, how far things go, but
the potential is here. 'Cause when you look at what we've got out of "Resident Evil," for a game that they actually
put the time and effort to design specifically for Apple silicon, or at least to do a proper port of, the performance is incredibly impressive. It just comes down, I think, to whether or not developers
want to spend the time, the money and the effort to
actually get it up and running. If you're interested in
learning anything else about the new Mac Minis,
we've actually done a video, which is gonna go live very shortly, over, not only on Denki
discussing a little bit more of the review side of things, but also we've done an entire This Is on why this specific M2 model of 600 bucks is an incredibly good deal. My friends, it's a brave new
world of Mac gaming. (laughs) I'll go back to building
my PC on my Mac via Windows 'cause it just makes me really happy.