- Hey guys, this is Austin, and today I'm here in
San Jose for Display Week for one very simple reason. Not only did LG sponsor this video, but they gave me this dope hat. The comments will tell you what it says. Probably the most eye-catching
thing here at this show is the 65-inch rollable OLED TV. Now we got to briefly take
a look at this at CES, but it is so cool to see something which of course is
keeping that same trend of all the foldable displays,
all the flexible displays, and taking that to a
full-size 65-inch OLED TV. So if you compare this
to something like an LCD, obviously a form factor like
this wouldn't be possible. OLED is much, much simpler. There's essentially just
the OLED panel itself. There's no backlight or
anything else like that, which means that you can
do some really interesting form factors like
rolling it up into a box. Actually, that feels mean, it's not a box. It's like an incredibly
elegant piece of furniture and I'm just like, "You
can put the OLED in a box!" So when you look at things
like rollable displays on phones and tablets and PCs and stuff, there's a very obvious reason
why that's there, right? You're going to get something which actually fits in your pocket but you can roll out to be like a tablet. When you look at a TV, the immediate answer is, like, "Wait, why do you actually need this?" But there are some interesting use cases. But because it's flexible and because you actually
can roll it up and down, you can actually get
different form factors. So for example, if you're
just wanting to look at, like, some music or some, did
I say look at music? You can listen to some music with a little bit of, like, yeah, see the little frame mode, or you can have some photos, and TV can get much smaller, or say you're watching a movie that has a 21:9 aspect ratio. Well, the TV can just
roll down just enough so you don't have any black
bars on top and bottom. So as with a lot of brand-new
technology like this, it is probably not going to come cheap, when it does go on sale later this year. But with something that's
this cool and this innovative, it's only a matter of time before things get a little bit cheaper. They have different models, they get the technology
sort of really fine-tuned, but for now, you can definitely see why this does feel like very much
it could be the future of TVs. I say that as someone
who doesn't actually know the price, though. (laughing) The next cool thing LG has on display here is the Crystal Sound OLED. So I step into this very loud room. This is all coming from the TV itself. So what they do is they
actually vibrate the display to create the sound, so,
oh, it just got quiet. (ethereal music) Oh, man! (laughing) It's, like, vibrating! It's like literally putting
your hand on a speaker! What makes this possible is a combination of the OLED display, which because it is so thin means that it can actually conduct the sound, as well as a series of exciters
that are behind the panel. Yes, my friends, they are called exciters because it's an exciting topic. Too much? Not enough? Anyway, the exciters combined with a little bit of an air channel that actually goes between
them and the panel itself means that it actually will create a proper full sound that's
straight from the TV. You can imagine a version of this tech if it was on, say, a
phone or a laptop, right? I mean, imagine the entire
display being your speaker. You can even go farther than that, right? I mean, I just put my hand on that thing, and it has some serious
sort of vibrations, so if that was some
sort of haptic feedback for when you Force Touch something or when you try to select an icon or do play a game or something, there's a lot of really cool functionality that you can imagine with
something like this, right? It's just a clever piece of design, and I'm always a fan
of some clever design. If you take a close look behind me, you'll see something that is a
little bit larger than usual. There's a full 88-inch 8K OLED. First of all, an 88-inch
TV always looks nice. Well, there's a lot of
people here suddenly. I'm gonna step over here. (laughing) But on top if it being huge, and of course it has all the
benefits of being an OLED, it also has a full 8K resolution. That, my friends, is about
the definition of crispy. So I've talked a lot about OLED and why the technology's cool, but of course one of the
biggest advantages here is that it has an
almost-unlimited contrast ratio. So because each individual
pixel is lit on its own unlike something like an LCD which does have a series
of backlights behind that at the end of the day
could never go full black without actually being
all halo-ey and ghosty, which is not totally fair, but, I mean, I feel like we've all seen an LCD which has a little
bit of an aura around it when you get into dark areas. With OLED, you don't have
to worry about any of that because each individual
pixel is lit on its own. So one of the nice things about it, especially something which is this huge, is it really gives you the
detail in the contrasty areas. So if you take a look over here, you will see The Rose. So this is a series of
four 4K 65-inch OLEDs, all of which have been curved
to this really cool look. So one of the nice things about OLED is that because you have
all these such weird angles, you actually don't really lose out on any of the viewing angles, so you can look at it right up close, you can look all the way over to the side, and yet the image quality
really isn't impacted. So that, my friends, is a look at what LG Display has here in San Jose to get a little bit of an in-depth look at the OLED future that we all want. That sounded weird, but
I'm gonna go with it.