- Best thing about the
LTT Store Linus Plushie is its groundbreaking design- (rumbling sound) Whoa, earthquake (screams). (Linus grunts) Okay, I think it's over. Now, where'd I put that emergency kit? (Linus exclaims) There we go. Got food and shelter and stuff. But where's the other one? Ah, there we go. Anker, our sponsor for this video helped us build out this, The Tech Survival Kit. This is gonna keep us
comfortable, connected, and distracted while we
wait for emergency crews to get us back online. So all that's left to do now is to set it all up and hunker down. (upbeat music) In an earthquake or other disaster it could be 24 or 72 hours before emergency services show up. So what's the first thing we need to do? We need to get to our emergency point. So we've chosen the living room set, but in the case of an actual emergency, we'd probably choose somewhere with slightly fewer
things hanging overhead in case of aftershocks. Next we crack into our bag starting with all jokes and
Anker sponsorship aside, the life necessities bag so what do we got in here? Whoop, emergency tissues. Got this like fricking
dense dehydrated ration. Apparently I'll be eating these rations, but they have been expired for how long? - I mean, they're probably fine. No, 03, 20, oh, 21. Oh yeah, no, the water's
been expired for a year. I guess we'll be drinking them then. Wouldn't want them to go to waste. Got a hand-crank charging, (radio static) combo radio, flashlight. (siren sound)
(Linux screams) Siren and charger. So that's neat. You can actually input
or output five volts, and it comes with a
couple little adapters. You're gonna really be
cranking that for a long time if you wanna charge your
phone or something though. That's where Anker's gonna come in, spoiler alert. (Linus laughs) First aid kit. Tube tent. Got your ponchos, whistle, three-week candle, emergency sleeping bags, some rope. Are those condoms? I mean, I can see why those would... no matches and rubber gloves, and regular gloves. I got three wicks, boys. Three wicks, one cup. I'm getting into a mood here. I guess we'll go tent first. I mean, that's the first thing you do after you light the
candle, you pitch the tent. (Linus laughing) Where were those condoms again? (Linus laughing) Do you wanna just like be my emergency survival buddy here? You're gonna drink the
water with me right? (Linus laughs) - No. So we're in this together
until the going gets tough. - I see. Here you go. Oh, no. Ah, wait, (laughs) you
pulled the whole thing. (exclaims) It keeps zapping me. Oh, well. This is like "Three Stooges"
level at this point. Okay, we got this. Here. - I have it. I can just tie it around the desk. - That's a strong anchor point. - Hey, get it? Get it? 'Cause it's sponsored by Anker. - Okay. Under any other
circumstances they tell you not to play in plastic bags. (Linus and Collin laughing) Maybe that was just me when I was a kid. Okay, Linus, don't play
with the plastic bag. Okay. Yep, I'm tented. Emergency sleeping bag. Great for emergencies. No, (bleep). (paper rustling) How's my audio, David? - Now I'm ready to not die. Now that our shelter is set up and our rations are all accounted for, we are ready to stay
in place for 72 hours. Now, I should note that this
is a shelter-in-place bag versus a bug out bag. So we don't have any kind
of wilderness survival kit other than like the pocket knife and no navigation equipment. So it's more for waiting
through something like a flood or earthquake or other emergency. Now it's time to crack open our tech bag. And because we're not going very far, we can afford to stash
some heavier things in it. Like creature comforts
that'll keep us busy while we wait for someone to
respond to our distress calls. Starting of course with the cornerstone, the Anker 535 Portable Power Station. This sucker has got a flashlight and not one of those useless ones, like it's got a little light bar so it actually spreads
it out really nicely. Four USB ports that'll do up to 60 watts with USB power delivery on this USB-C right here. A car socket as well as four AC outlets that'll do up to 500 watts. And I am sweating. I need to get out of the sleeping bag. Holy crap, these things work. I've never actually been in one. Whoa, okay. That was just... I'm sorry, I need to take off this hoodie. Even our nice light indoor
hoodie from lttstore.com, too warm right now. Okay (laughs). First up we got... Okay, I wasn't here when they packed this. Really, Doritos. Let me guess, look it's a tech bag not a gamer bag. With that said I didn't
have breakfast today so (paper rustling) I'm like super down. Here you go. You don't want Doritos? David? (paper rustling) Next up, we've got a
personal electric heater. Now, honestly speaking, we'd recommend getting something a little bit smaller than this one. This is a 400 watt heater. So our Anker power station
is gonna run this for a little bit over an hour. But the reason that we got it was to show you guys that
500 watts of peak output. And this was the closest
thing we could find that could push this puppy to its limits. And here we go, 158 watts, 178 watts, it's going, boy, it's 191, 374, 450, ah, 460. It's supposed to be 400 watts. 470. (man laughs) - That's why you'd want something a little bit lower capacity. And in any way, if you're in that like frickin' space blanket, you're not gonna need this much heat. Here we go. We got the Stress Man. Stress Man. Okay, is this just a bag
full of memes, Collin? I'm Stress Man. - Yeah, I mean, that's fair enough. I don't... I guess you could drink the goo inside if you were really desperate. Stress Man (indistinct). - [Man] Oh. Oh, here it is, oh. - Now these are cool. I'm something of a sock enthusiast. (groans) these I know about. We've got electric socks. Now, you might laugh at that and go, "Oh you mocked the Stress Man, but electric socks?" But this is actually a
way more practical way of heating yourself up than
just having a space heater, which is gonna throw
most of that energy out into the air around you. And actually I would wanna be not stupid and not have another
sock on underneath it. Fun fact, insulators are insulators. So the more barriers you put between the heat source and your body, the less of it ends up in your body. Just so you know. (serene music) (upbeat music) Okay, where's my battery
at for these boys? Is that a pocket? Yeah, that's a pocket. Oh, yeah. Hold on. (Linus grunts) Oh, yeah. This just gets better and better. We've got the neck light, boys. (plastic tearing) (Linus laughs) Okay. What else we got here? The Black Diamond ReMoji LED lantern. That's cool. It's got little hanging hooks and look at that, that's fantastic. We're hanging it. (paper rustling) There we go. Oh, look at that. - [Man] Nice. - Nice. I don't even need this thing. Assorted charging cables from Anker. A rubber band gun. (clicking sound) Oh no, right in the dick. - This is cool. It's more of camping
tech than computer tech, but the LifeStraw is sick. It'll remove anywhere from
three to six kinds of bacteria, parasites and microplastics, and reduces chlorine as well as lead and other heavy metals. And will apparently filter
a hundred liters of water. I have no idea what they intend for me to actually drink through it though. Maybe I can use it for
those scary expired packs. Oh my God, are you serious? So what? I just stick this in the thing. Oh my God. I really don't like this. Where the heck did you get this water? - Out back. - I don't like this. I'll do it, I'll do it, just give me a sec. You really gotta go at it. It's fine. - Wow, that's actually pretty cool. (serene music) (David laughs) - Wow, that's so cool. - All right, let's get our... Some more stuff from Anker. So here we've got even more USB ports, not that we really need those 'cause we've got power station, but this is just a nice little multi-tap power extend USB-C three cube, which naturally we'll be
using with our gaming device. So I packed my old Aya Neo
Founders Edition in here. We can you use that to play
emulated games, PC games, all kinds of other good stuff. Of course my battery is low. So it's time to get that plugged in. I love it. And boop, boop. There it goes. Spicy sausage Bolognese. Just add water, oh God, that water? I might go LifeStraw water for that. Dark chocolate mousse. What kind of mouse? (man laughs) The blocks energy juice as well as another Anker power brick. This one, one that we
can actually recharge with (imitates drum roll) the PowerPort Solar. This is a nice little... Oh, here we go. Solar panel for when it's day time again and it's time to recharge
this particular brick. One cool feature of this brick is that all you gotta do is turn around this little buddy right here. Look at that, that's a
little LED flashlight. What's really nice about this guy is we can also use this, not just the large power
station to charge a laptop or portable gaming device like this, like a high voltage device. At 94 watt hours, this will nearly double the battery life of a laptop and it'll do two full
charges of a smaller device like the Neo. A Leatherman and a spork to
consume all this food with. This is great. And apparently I'm supposed to start with the Datrex multipurpose
emergency ration crackers, the expired ones. Or biscuits or whatever
you wanna call them. We're not allowed to
use that C word anymore. - These are good? - They look good. - Okay. One every six hours
per person, apparently. (serene music) - [Man] Why are we still here? Just to suffer. (Linus coughs) - Sorry. Well, actually this is
scarier than the biscuits. (serene music) Okay. (serene music) Not bad but I think we can do better. Why don't we try one of our other snacks? Well, I guess the first thing we gotta do is get some water going here. This is the Jetboil Micro
which Collin is very proud of. Apparently what differentiates this from the other Jetboil this size is that it does more than just boil water, you can actually cook with it. Come on, buddy. Okay, I will try not to break it too much. I mean, realistically, if it wasn't durable enough for me then it's probably not
durable enough for you, you don't really like it at that point. Look at that. (Collin exclaims) Yeah, that is super cool, Collin. You haven't used it at all? - 60 seconds. Yeah, look at it go, that's crazy. So let's go with the
spicy sausage Bolognese. Oh, there's a little do not eat in there. Should I take that oat first or what? That actually smells pretty good. Is this my lunch today? I should let Yvonne know I
don't need lunch today then. Then I just need to not burn
myself while I try to... (man chatters indistinctly) Ooh, it's insulated, but it's hot. No, no, we're good, we got this. Do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do. - Well... (exclaims) It's gonna burst. (exclaims) Hot steam. Since this one takes 10 minutes as well, we might as well prep dessert while we wait for our dinner to cook. Cold water for this guy. I don't know if this
actually looks as promising as the dinner. Stirred not shaken. (Linus stirring food) All right. (paper rustling) Time for some dinner. (paper rustling) Okay, hello. Come on. Come on. (exclaims) there it is. - Oh, oh.
- Oh, oh. I did not mix it enough, confirmed. Well, David, you were right. - And I was wrong. Well, we're gonna hope for the best here 'cause I have now called off my lunch, and Yvonne apparently
gave it to someone else. So this is what I'm eating. (man laughs) That's fine, it can't be that bad. Just a little bit of like
powdered stuff in it. Okay, we're trying it. We're trying it. Actually, it still looks really hot. (paper rustling) You hear that crunch? - [Man] No. - I found some crunchy bits. (man laughs) The taste is good though. - [Man] That actually smells good. - That's good. (indistinct) wanna just break for lunch. - I'll just hang here. Oh, you got my donair? - You freaking guy. So that's who's getting my lunch. That's actually not bad. (phone ringing) Hey, cell service is back which means the power
should be coming back at pretty much any... And there it is. We survived the techpocalypse. This is a little bit of a different video from what we normally do, but thanks to Anker for sponsoring. It gave us a chance to look
at some really cool tech outside of just computers for a change so you can see their full lineup of power solutions, chargers, and really it's a lot of
power solutions, cables at the link down below. If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe go check out the
Nebula Cosmos unboxing on Short Circuit. That's a sub-brand of Anker's, and that portable projector is super cool. I wouldn't have minded having
that in the tech apocalypse.