- We are about to go through this drive through
1000 times in a row. And if we don't complete the
laps before the end of the day, we have to work at the restaurant. Let's do it, go ahead and get started. - I love food. - Well, I hope you want
a thousand burgers. - [Attendant] Welcome to Hardee's. - I'll take a number six. Oh, did you guys want something? I'll pull back around. Appreciate it. - Yeah!
(bell dings) - That was one trip through
the drive through, 999 more. This is trip number two, Chris. - Thank you. - [Mr. Beast] All right,
Chandler, it's your turn to order. - Oh, can I get the- (dial-up tone beeping) - I kind of don't want to
do this anymore. (laughs) - [Mr. Beast] Yeah, we got our food. Let's stop the car. Let's have a heart to heart. - Huh? - [Mr. Beast] Other YouTubers
would probably fake this. Other YouTubers would
quit, but what are we? - Unfortunately, not other YouTubers. - [Mr. Beast] That's right, now let's go through this drive through 997 more times. (calm electronic music) - We just want one apple turnover, please. (bell dings) Can I get the hometown special, please. (bell dings) Here's your bottle of water. Can I get a cookie? Thank you.
(bell dings) I'll take one sausage,
eggs, cheese, and bacon. (bell dings)
Thank you. (laughs) - I gotta go find my shorts, man. (bell dings) - Are you gonna take it? (attendant laughing) (Chandler laughing) - [Mr. Beast] Wait, where's he going? He stole our food. (fist knocking) - The window's NASCAR style, you have to- - Dude, I've never seen it. - NASCAR style. - I've never seen that movie. (calm electronic music) - [Mr. Beast] Chandler,
do you wanna drive? - Okay. - [Mr. Beast] I'm so scared
that Chandler's driving. - I kind of am too. At the rate we're going, Chandler, you'll maybe be able to sleep tonight. We might be doing this all night. - My mom's not gonna be happy about that. - Don't you to live alone? - I still have a bedtime. - [Mr. Beast] Chandler,
you keep going in this car. Chris, you go hop on a lawn mower, I'm gonna go get in the golf cart. - All right! What is this? - It's a lawnmower. (upbeat country music) I'll just take a biscuit. I don't have any money, but
I can mow your grass for you. - There's a side strip
over there, that'd be fine. - All right, let me get
it cranked back up here. (bell dings)
Thank you. (motor humming) (upbeat country music) That's about a cheese biscuit worth. - Hey, I'm in a golf cart. - [Attendant] Okay. - Do you have donuts? - [Attendant] We do at this store. - Can I have a donut? - [Attendant] One donut? - Thank you. I don't feel like waiting in line. I'm gonna go check on Chris. (motor roaring) We meet again. I didn't feel like waiting
in line, so I just left. Do those still count? - Well, you do make the rules, so yes. (calm electronic music) - Hey Tareq, am I allowed to go poop? (Latin music) Wish me luck. - [Tareq] Good luck man, I'll be here. - [Chandler] Oh, hey Marcus. (Latin music) - [Tareq] There he is. How are you feeling? - (sighs) Very good. Can I work here? Can I work the drive through? - Sure. - Sorry, what do you need? What do you need? - The Frisco. Oh, okay, okay. Can we get one of the Friscos? Thank you dude, here you go, man. Have a nice day. - [Mr. Beast] I thought you were- - Sir, have a nice day.
(woman laughing) - [Mr. Beast] I thought you were pooping. (calm electronic music) (bells dinging) - [Attendant] Thank you
for choosing Hardee's, how can I help you? - Do you have any onion rings? - [Attendant] We don't
start serving onion rings until 10:30. - Can you change your clock? - [Attendant] It's in eastern time, uh- Wanna use pacific time? - Yeah. - Thanks for changing the clock. - I'm glad I found those
onion rings for you. So it's 10 orders, right? - Just one order ten times. - One order ten times? - [Mr. Beast] No 10 orders one time. - 10 orders, wait, what? - One order, 10 times? - [Mr. Beast] 10 orders, one time. - 10 orders one time. - [Mr. Beast] Yes. - How about five orders five times? - [Mr. Beast] Two times for the one time. - What are we talking about? (calm electronic music) (bells dinging) - So if we keep this pace up, we won't actually hit all a thousand before the end of the day. So I'm gonna enlist Jake and Marcus. So we're running a little short on time. So I'm gonna need you to drive your car around the drive through. - Got it. - [Mr. Beast] Good guy. I'm gonna need you to go through the drive through as well. (bells dinging) - I'm on a girl's bike. (intense rock music) (metal clacks) (Chris groans) It's hard. Thank you.
- You're welcome. (bell dings) - Go back to school. - We've been stockpiling food and we don't want it to go to waste. So we're gonna give the food to Jake to give to a local middle school. All right, Jake, you're delivering
this to a middle school. (calm electronic music) - All right, let's do this, let's go. (silly music) Here we are. (crowd bustling) - [Crowd] It's Mr. Beast! (crowd cheering) (calm electronic music) (bells dinging rapidly) - [Mr. Beast] To help save time
and prevent any wasted food, we started ordering bottles
of water and orange juice, so after the challenge,
we could just donate them. All right, so I just got off the phone with the police department. We asked them what they wanted to eat and they said order whatever. - Can I get a number one combo? (bell dings)
Can I get a number two? (bell dings)
Can I get a numero three? And a number four? Number five, six, seven
(bells dinging) Hey! - We're ordering the
entire menu one at a time. - Thank you.
(bell dings) - [Chris] Chandler, how you feeling? - My hand feels numb. Thank you. - [Tareq] How have you guys been doing with these guys going through
the drive through all day? - It's been real fun. - [Tareq] Oh yeah? - To say the least it's
definitely different. (Tareq laughs) - So this time we bought a
bunch of food for the cops. - Okay. - They said get 'em whatever,
so we got 'em whatever. - Okay. Can someone open the door? (calm electronic music) We just got to the police station and we've got some food for 'em. - [Tareq] I got a bag, how you doing? - [Officer] Right over here. - Woo-hoo. Perfect. Awesome, thank you so much. (calm electronic music) (bells dinging) - We got up at five a. m. 'cause we had to drive a ways for this Hardee's. - We're grinding for y'all. Can we just make it like 300? - Just make it two trips. - We rented a limo because
we needed more space. - [Chris] Oh wow, it's big. (refined classical music) - We're gonna take a nap. We've been going for a long time. Wait, who's ordering? - We just need waters. - [Chandler] Water and orange juice, baby. - We'll take a bottle of water. Thank you so much. (bell dings) All right, guys, here is your fancy water. - [Chris] We have an ice chest right here. - [Mr. Beast] Thank you. - [DJ Khaled] Another one. - 270. So me and the boys are just
gonna recoup a little bit. We've been up for eight hours already. We're exhausted, but don't worry guys. We're gonna get this done 'cause if we don't
complete all one thousand, we have to work at Hardee's tonight. - Don't wanna do that. - I don't either, 'cause
I'm literally already dead. Look at Chandler. Thank you.
(bell dings) Hey, we got you some apple sauce. - I feel like a dead body. (bells dinging rapidly)
(refined classical music) - Thank you, thank you, thank you. Thank you, thank you,
thank you for the water. We are over a third of the way done. Chandler, are you okay? I think we did like 40,
50, 60 laps, I don't know. We're gonna head back to the normal car. (bells dinging rapidly)
(upbeat music) We've been through the drive
through over 400 times today. Are you wondering why we're doing this? - Yes, why are y'all coming through the drive through
400 times so far today? - [Mr. Beast] I'll tell you next time. - Okay. (calm jazz music) - Why have you been through the drive through 400 times today? - [Mr. Beast] I really don't
know actually, to be honest. I'll see you in a minute. - [Chandler] We got one there. 17, you know I counted
these down here, one there. All this is a pile all the way up to here and it looks like trash,
but they're all full. Thank you ma'am.
(bell dings) Do you wanna split the fries? - [Chandler] It was actually really good. - Yeah, it was. Do you want another one? - Yeah, let's get another fry. - Okay. So to save a little time,
I just gave them the card and every time we go through, they're just charging
that one credit card. So that's why we're not
having to swipe it every time. (percussion music) (bells dinging rapidly) (Marcus groans) - I think it's catching up to me. And I don't know how much
longer I can just sit in this car and just drive around. - [Attendant] How can I help you? - Can I have a hot dog with nothing on it? (bell dings) - Is this the hot dog? - Marcus got it. - Marcus took my hot dog. I heard you took my hot dog. Give it back.
- Go find it. - [Mr. Beast] Give it
back, give me my hot dog. - Just make me, you can't. (bag crinkling) No, no, this is all
mine, this is all mine. (calm electronic music) (bells dinging rapidly) - Can I have just a bun? - [Attendant] Sure. - Thank you for the bun.
(bell dings) They used to question what we were doing but I think now they're just like, they've just accepted that we're weird. Hey, can I have a patty? Thank you. - [Chris] Did they change
people while I was gone? - Yep, they've done like
four different shifts, and we're just still going
through the drive through. Can I have like 10 pickles? - [Attendant] Uh, yeah,
please pull to the window. - Thank you.
(bell dings) Sorry, I forgot cheese. - [Attendant] You want
one slice of cheese? - Yeah. Thank you, appreciate it.
(bell dings) - [Chris] You wanna go
park and build a burger? - Yes, let's do that. All right, so we take the bun. That's the burger, so we put that in. (liquid squelches) - [Chris] That's a lot of cheese. - I'm gonna drive by, you throw it at him. We're doing a burger drive by. - Dude, it smells like pickles. Dude, he's gonna kill me,
he's literally gonna kill me. I don't even want do
it, he's gonna kill me. We built a burger, do you want it? Hey, guess what, burger drive by! - [Mr. Beast] Did you miss? - No, it landed on him. (ominous music) Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. (calm electronic music) (bells dinging rapidly) - [Mr. Beast] We have a
delivery for the hospital, come grab the food. (bags crinkling) There's more. Take these to the hospital. (calm jazz music) - So we're at the hospital now. We've got some more food, gonna deliver it to whoever wants it. I think it's a bunch of burgers and fries and some other stuff. - Awesome, we appreciate it! - Awesome, no problem,
y'all have a good one. - You too. (calm electronic music) (bells dinging rapidly) - Can I have apple sauce, buttery biscuit, chewy cookie, doughy
donut, enormous number one. Can I get some french fries? So I'm ordering it on the alphabet. So I ordered apple
sauce, a buttery biscuit, a chewy cookie, doughy donut,
an enormous number one. (Tareq laughs) I was all by myself 'cause
Chandler had to poop. - [Tareq] Chandler's pooping again? - Four times. - [Tareq] What has he been eating? I don't know, what has
he been eating, Tareq? What has he been eating,
what has he been eating? I'm gonna get me a gargantuan
mushroom and Swiss burger. I want a hamburger, ice tea. Can I get some juice? Can I get one packet of ketchup? Hey, let me get some of that lettuce. Give me a milkshake.
Let me get nuggets. Orange juice!
Y'all got any pineapple? Can I get a quarter pounder?
I'll take a ring of onions. Sprite, tea. I can't think of anything
that starts with U. Can I get a upcharge. (bell dings)
(group laughing) Let me get a vanilla shake. - [Tareq] That's not a vanilla
shake, you can't just lie. (bag rustles) - Can I get some extra dip? - You skipped a letter. - No, extra dip. - W, V, Y. - Do I look like I care about W. Give me a water. (laughs) Thank you. Can I get a yellow mello? (bell dings)
It counts. Can I get a zero Coke? - [Attendant] A Coke Zero? - Yeah, zero Coke.
(bell dings) - [Attendant] Okay. (calm electronic music) (bells dinging rapidly) - 129 more laps to go. - Yay. - [Mr. Beast] Chris,
do you wanna give them a tour of the back seat? - [Chris] Yeah, welcome to
my back seat experience. We got Hardee's right here
and Hardee's right here. A little bit of Hardee's right here. And hey, more Hardee's.
(bell dings) (Chandler and Mr. Beast growl) - So frustrating, you have no idea. - We only have a hundred and- - Get outta the way, lazy. (bell dings) - All right, do you wanna switch? (calm electronic music) (bells dinging) (Chris screaming) (bells dinging) - 900! - Hey, guess what? - [Attendant] What? - We're on lap 901, only 99 left. - [Attendant] Good luck. - She does not care. - Thank you. - She does not care. - I just wanted a congratulations. - [Chandler] Jimmy. - I thought we were in this
together with Hardee's. I mean, we're all tired.
- We're tired, we're all tired. - I know it's been a long day but this is like the fifth person that can't even stick with us. I'm sad. (tragic music) - I am so over this. - I got you a fry this time. (fist smacks) (bells dinging) (Mr. Beast yelling) Yo, give me that. Give me the good good. You already know what I'm going to say because we've been doing
this for like half an hour like forty times so yeah
just give me the goods. Yeah, five hundred, four hundred times. Give me the goods. (calm electronic music) (bells dinging rapidly) Thank you so much, thank you. (bells dinging) - Secured the bag! (bells dinging) - 89, 10 more! Six more, six more! (imitated chicken clucking) - [Mr. Beast] Thank you
for putting up with us. (bell dings) The boys are tired. (bell dings) (Mr. Beast yells) - We have three more. - Three more to go, and we're done. If we started at seven
a.m. and it's nine p.m. - 14 hours. - I just wanted to say
we have three final laps. That's 997 done, and I really
just wanna say thank you for putting up with our crap. - [Attendant] You're a legend. (car whining) - We just curbed! - Sorry, I was really excited to see you. (bell dings)
The curb was in the way. - [Attendant] How many? - Two more. There was three, one to go, math. (old-fashioned piano music) - So obviously the next phase is two. - Jimmy. - And after this will be the final one. - Please. - I've really enjoyed our time together. Thank you. - [Attendant] You're welcome. - [Mr. Beast] See you in a minute. - Please, please, just go. (bell dings) - [Chandler] Y'all want a fry? - So ma'am, I have a question for you. - [Attendant] Yes, sir. - I feel like after 999 laps, I deserve to know what your name is. - [Attendant] Latonia. - Nice to meet you, Latonia. You'll probably never see me again, 'cause I'm never eating fast
food until the day I die. This was enough. (celebratory music) (group cheering) (employees clapping) Thank you, thank you. - I get it. - [Chandler] We're so close. - What if I just sit here? - [Chandler] Yeah, but
we're so close guys. - (laughs) I'm kidding. - [Chandler] We're so close. (employees clapping) (celebratory music) (employees cheering) - 1000! Yeet, 1000! On the last lap I was supposed to give you guys money but I forgot. Here's some more too. - Okay, thank you. - Thanks for the help. - Now go home now, we appreciate it. - Goodbye! - It's been fun, but we're done here. (Chandler laughing) (explosion booms) ♪ Mr. Beast 6000, oh whoa ♪ ♪ Mr. Beast 6000, oh whoa ♪ ♪ Mr. Beast 6000, yeah,
you know his name ♪ ♪ He changed it once or twice ♪ ♪ But I think it's here to stay ♪ (explosion booms)