This is Waterloo Park in downtown Austin, 
Texas, just a couple of blocks away from   the state capitol building. It’s got walking 
trails, an ampitheater, Waller Creek runs right   through the center, and it has this strange 
semicircular structure right on the water.   And this is Ladybird Lake, formerly Town Lake, 
about a mile away. Right where Waller Creek   flows into the lake, there’s another strange 
structure. You saw the title of this video,   so you know what I’m getting at here. It turns 
out these two peculiar projects are linked,   not just by the creek that runs through downtown 
Austin, but also by a tunnel, a big tunnel. The   Waller Creek Tunnel is about 26 feet (or 8 meters 
in diameter) and runs about 70 feet or 21 meters   below downtown Austin. It’s not meant for cars or 
trains or bikes or buses or even high voltage oil   filled cables, and it’s not even meant to carry 
fresh water or sewage. Its singular goal is to   quickly get water out of this narrow downtown area 
during a flood. It’s designed with a peak flow   rate of 8,500 cubic feet per second. That’s 240 
cubic meters per second, or enough to fill a cubic   olympic sized swimming pool in about 10 seconds. 
And the way it works is pretty fascinating. Most major cities use underground pipes as drains 
to get rid of stormwater runoff so it doesn’t   flood streets and inundate populated areas. But, 
a storm drain only has so much capacity, and a lot   of places across the world have taken the idea 
a few steps further in scale. As I always say,   the only thing cooler than a huge tunnel is a huge 
tunnel that carries lots of water and protects us   from floods. And I built a model flood tunnel from 
acrylic, so you can see how these structures work   and learn just a few of the engineering challenges 
that come with a project like this. I’m Grady,   and this is Practical Engineering. In today’s 
episode, we’re talking about flood tunnels. Floods are natural occurrences on earth, and in 
fact, in many places they are beneficial to the   environment by creating habitat and carrying 
nutrient rich sediments into the floodplain,   the area surrounding a creek or river that is 
most vulnerable to inundation. But, floods are   not beneficial to cities. They are among the 
most disruptive and expensive natural disasters   worldwide. If a flood swells a creek or river 
in a scattered residential neighborhood, it’s   not ideal for the few homeowners who are impacted, 
but if a flood strikes the dense urban core of a   major city, the consequences can be catastrophic 
with millions of dollars of damage and entire   systems shutdown. What that means in practice 
is that we’re often willing to spend millions of   dollars on flood infrastructure to protect densely 
populated areas, opening the door to more creative   solutions. And heavily developed downtown areas 
demand resourceful thinking because they lack the   space for traditional protection projects and they 
often predate modern urban drainage practices. We can’t change the amount of water that 
falls during a flood, so we’re forced to   develop ways to manage that water once it’s on 
the ground. The main way we mitigate flooding is   just to avoid development within the floodplain. 
Don’t build in the areas of land most at risk of   inundation during heavy storms. Seems simple, 
but it’s not an option for most downtown areas   that have been developed since well before 
the advent of modern flood risk management.   Another way we manage flooding is storing 
the water in large reservoirs behind dams,   allowing it to be released slowly over time. 
Again, not an option in downtown areas where   creating a reservoir could mean demolishing 
swaths of expensive property. A third flood   management strategy is bypassing - sending 
the water around developed areas where it will   cause fewer impacts. Once again, not an option in 
downtown areas where there is no alternative path   for the water to go… unless you start thinking 
in the third dimension. Tunnels allow us to break   free from the confines of the earth’s surface and 
utilize subterranean space to allow floodwaters   past developed areas to be released further 
downstream. Let me show you how this works. This is my model downtown business district. It’s 
got buildings, landscaping, and a beautiful river   running right through the center. I have a flow 
meter and valve to control how much water is   moving through that beautiful river, and here on 
the downstream side is a little dam to create some   depth. Take a look at many major cities that have 
rivers running through them, and you’ll often see   a weir or dam just like this to maintain some 
control over the upstream level, keeping water   deep enough for boats or in some cases, just 
for beauty like the RiverWalk in downtown San   Antonio. I put some blue dye and mica powder in 
the water to make it easier to visualize the flow. I also have a big clear pipe with an inlet 
upstream of the developed area and an outlet   just below the dam. Looking at this model, it 
might seem like a flood bypass tunnel is as simple   as slapping a big pipe to where you want the flood 
waters to go, but here’s the thing about floods:   most of the time, they’re not happening. In 
fact, almost all of the time, there isn’t a   flood. And if you’re the owner of a flood bypass 
tunnel, that means almost all of the time you’re   responsible for a gigantic pipe full of water 
below your city that has no real job except to   wait. Watch what happens when I turn down the 
flow rate in my model to something you might   see on a typical day. If we just leave the city 
like it is, all the flow goes into the tunnel,   draining the channel like a bathtub and leaving 
the water along the downtown corridor to stagnate. Standing water creates an environmental 
hazard. Without motion, the water doesn’t mix,   and so it loses dissolved oxygen that is needed 
for fish and bacteria that eat organic material.   Without dissolved oxygen, rivers become dead 
zones with little aquatic life and full of smelly,   rotting organic material. Stagnant water also 
creates a breeding ground for mosquitoes, and is   just unpleasant to be around. It’s not something 
you want in an urban core. The answer to this   issue is gates, a topic I have a whole other video 
about. I can show how this works in my model. If   you equip your gigantic flood bypass tunnel with 
gates on the inlet, you can control how much water   goes into the tunnel versus what continues in the 
river. I just used this piece of foam to close   off most of the tunnel entrance. I still have some 
water moving through there, but most continues in   the river, keeping it from getting stagnant. 
This is why, on many flood bypass tunnels,   you’ll see interesting structures at the inlets. 
Here’s the one in Austin again, and here’s the one   just down the road in San Antonio. In addition to 
screening for trash and debris (and keeping people   out) the main purpose of these structures is to 
regulate how much water goes into the tunnel. But, some creeks and rivers don’t just have 
low flows during dry times, they have no flows.   Intermittent streams only flow at certain times of 
the year and ephemeral streams only flow after it   rains. Take a look at the stream gage for Waller 
Creek in Austin. Except for the days with rain,   the flow in the creek is essentially zero. But, 
if you’re worried about stagnant water and lack   of habitat on the surface, you want more water 
running in the river. You definitely don’t want   to divert any of the scarce flows available into 
the tunnel. But you can’t just close the tunnel   off completely, because then the water inside the 
tunnel will stagnate instead. You might think,   “So what? It’s down there below the ground 
where we don’t have to worry about it.” Well,   as soon as the next big flood comes 
and you open the gates to your tunnel,   you’re going to push a massive slug of 
disgusting stagnant water out the other end,   creating an environmental hazard downstream. 
So, in addition to gates on the upstream end,   some flood tunnels, including the one in Austin, 
are equipped with pumps to recirculate water back   upstream. I put a little pump in the model 
to show how this works. The pump pulls water   from the river downstream and delivers it 
back upstream of the tunnel entrance. This   allows you to double dip on benefits during low 
flows: you keep water moving in the tunnel so   it doesn’t stagnate and you actually increase 
the flow in the river, improving its quality. That’s 99 percent of managing a flood bypass 
tunnel: maintaining the infrastructure during   normal flows. But of course, all that 
trouble is worth it the moment a big   flood comes. Let’s turn the model all 
the way up and see how it performs. You can see the tunnel collecting flows, 
moving them downstream, and delivering them   below the dam away from the developed area. 
The tunnel is adding capacity to the river,   allowing a good proportion of the flood flows to 
completely bypass the downtown area. Of course,   the river still rose during the flood, 
but it hasn’t overtopped the banks,   so the city was protected. Let’s plug the 
tunnel and see what would happen without it.   Turning up the model to full blast causes the 
stream to go over the bank and flood downtown.   In this case, it’s not a huge difference, but 
even a few inches of floodwaters backing up   into buildings is enough to create enormous 
damages and huge costs for repairs. Without   any margin for increased flows, a big peak in 
rainfall can even wash buildings and cars away. So, comparing flood levels between the 
two alternatives flowing at the same rate,   it’s easy to see the benefits of a flood 
bypass tunnel. It resculpts the floodplain,   lowering peak levels and pulling property and 
buildings out of the most vulnerable areas,   making it possible to develop more densely in 
urban areas, not to mention creating habitat,   improving water quality, and maintaining 
a constant flow in the river during dry   times. Of course, a tunnel is an enormous 
project itself, and flood bypass tunnels   are truly one of the most complicated and 
expensive ways to mitigate flood risks,   but they’re also one of the only ways to 
manage flood risks in heavily populated areas. I’ve been referencing projects in central Texas 
because that’s where I live, but despite their   immense cost and complexity, flood bypass tunnels 
have been built across the world. One of the most   famous is the Tokyo Metropolitan Area Outer 
Underground Discharge Channel that features   this enormous cathedral of a subsurface tank. 
Unlike my model that works by gravity alone,   the Tokyo tunnel needs huge pumps to get the 
water back out and into the Edogawa River. And   some tunnels aren’t just for stormwater. Many 
older cities don’t have separated sewers for   stormwater and wastewater, so everything flows to 
the treatment plants. That means when it rains,   these plants see enormous influxes of water 
that must be treated before it can be released   into rivers or the ocean. One of the largest 
civil engineering projects on earth has been   in design and construction in Chicago since 
the 1970s and isn’t scheduled for completion   until 2029. The Tunnel and Reservoir Plan (or 
TARP) includes four separate tunnel systems that   combine with a number of storage reservoirs 
to keep Chicago’s sewers from overflowing   into and polluting local waterways. And we 
keep finding value in tunnels where other   projects wouldn’t be feasible. After record 
breaking floods from Hurricane Harvey in 2017,   Houston started looking into the viability 
of using tunnels to reduce the impacts from   future downpours. A 2.5-million-dollar engineering 
study was finished in 2022 suggesting that a   system of tunnels might be a feasible solution 
to remove tens of thousands of structures from   the floodplain. If they do move forward with 
any of the eight tunnels evaluated, that will   complete the superfecta of major metropolitan 
areas in Texas with large flood bypass tunnels,   but represent just one more of the many cities 
across the world that that have maximized the   use of valuable land on earth’s surface by 
taking advantage of the space underneath. A superfecta, by the way, is 
not a run of three, but four,   which is also the number of members in my 
family. But sometimes cooking dinner feels   like 2 versus 2. The two babies have their 
own ideas about how to use the ingredients. "One of the kids already got a 
whole bite out of our lemon." That’s why I’m thankful for HelloFresh, 
the sponsor of this video. Healthy and   delicious meal kits that use pre-portioned 
ingredients it exactly our speed right   now. We don’t have to do the planning and 
grocery shopping that take up a lot of time,   but we do get to do the fun part 
(our favorite part): the cooking. "It's just butter and bread crumbs?" "Mm-hmm" "That's what my life should be made of." Just the job of choosing what to eat is hard 
enough, especially if you care about nutrition and   what’s in season. And, having kids has given me a 
new perspective on recipe ruts. HelloFresh makes   it easy to expose them to all kinds of foods, not 
just the stuff that I’m in the habit of eating. "Do you want to admit out loud that you've never 
cut, never touched or cut up a brussels sprout?" We’ve been doing this since before these two 
were born. It started out as our favorite thing   to do on a date night in, and it’s still that 
sometimes, but mostly HelloFresh is our secret   shortcut to healthy and delicious meals for the 
whole family. If you want to try it yourself,   they have an awesome promotion going 
right now for fans of the channel. Go to   HelloFresh dot com and use code PRACTICAL16 at 
checkout for 16 free meals PLUS free shipping!   Just give it a shot and see if it doesn’t 
make your life better. That’s HelloFresh.com   and use code Practical16. Thank you for 
watching and let me know what you think.