We've roasted your PCs before, but frankly speaking, you have never made it this easy. Our community came from all over the world to Whale LAN 2023, and they brought... horrible, they brought overkill, they brought rugged, they brought the old, they brought the new, they brought jank, and they brought the obviously stolen! That is my mineral oil PC, sir! I can recognize it from the decorations I bought at the pet store. How did you end up with this, sir? There is no good enough reason! And we're gonna be checking out the best and the worst of what's here, and it is all brought to you by Asus ROG, who sponsored LTX 2023, and I'm sure we'll have some talking points to cut away to here. Actually, I lied. There are no talking points. Just this pile of products from Asus and their partners that we get to use to upgrade the rigs that you are about to see. And it's at our discretion? Yeah, we can do whatever we want. This'll be fun. I'm truly sorry for not giving you a chance to explain yourself. How is it that my oil-cooled PC has come into your possession? To be fair, it's my oil-cooled PC now. I don't see any oil. Well, okay. Boom! Got him! You did give it to somebody. He couldn't fix it. He gave it to me, so I drilled some holes in it, and now it's air-cooled. It's an air-cooled PC. That's the original power supply. I can see you haven't changed that. That's the original cooler. That's a silver arrow or something like that. You've changed almost nothing! It's all original except for the RAM. I added some fans. Amazing. What the heck is this? Certified data! Do you shop for computers at London Drugs or something? My mom does. Blame it on your mom. Typical gamer move. In all seriousness, though, did you guys notice the OG LTT edition Noctua fan in here? That costs more than the rest of this computer. JK, it's actually a ripping fast sleeper PC with an RTX 3080 that definitely won't fall off this weird platform that he built for it. Who runs SLI in insert year that it is? Me, because it looks cool. And you have a monitor inside your case for Discord? This is not the best way to do this. It works already. Are all four of these screwdrivers yours? Yeah. Do you just hate money or something? I like yellow, it matches my controller. I do like your tubing bends. Thanks. I'm sorry. Can I just help you? Is there a garbage can somewhere? You brought an Intel NUC. It's not an Intel NUC. Okay, you brought an off-brand NUC to a LAN and then you couldn't find a way to connect a GPU to it. Wait a second. This is an eGPU enclosure board. Well, the parts came as a kit. This is basically a Thunderbolt eGPU enclosure, but just without the enclosure. All right. I think I've got something for you. Turn off your computer. Faster. But I'm gonna make it worth your while. How much power is this power supply got? 550. Here we go. Here we go. Let's go. If you don't have that GPU off there by the time I have this ready. I don't know if I'm going to be able to give it to you. See, this is a very smart setup because it means that at a moment's notice, you could be ready to throw a much larger GPU that hey, frankly might not have fit in your friend's case. Oh, well that looks a little better done it. Oh my God. Do you not have a-? It's modular cables. You're going to have to go get a cable. Enjoy your new GPU. Good luck in the rest of the tournament. Okay. This is amazing. Did you build this? The cabinet itself, the wood cut came from a place called Game Room Solutions. The screen up here is a pixelcade LED matrix. So it's a 32 by 128 actual LED like controllable matrix. The buttons and all this, I've wired up myself, this all functions properly, but this is effectively a dock for my Steam Deck. And then just in the back here, got our Steam Deck and some fantastic cable management, for a last minute change. Thank you very much. Sick. What the actual crap am I looking at here? This is clearly bootleg, counterfeit, not official LTT merch and it makes me extremely uncomfortable. You know, I see this kind of like fan art on the internet and I'm always like, man, that's weird, but I never have to be face-to-face with the weird guy who made it. All right, play your game, play your game, just ugh. Buddy here is not even at his desk, but I've been informed that he's just about the most roastable person at the sl- He's got a Nikon D750 as his, oh, what about second webcam? And he doesn't even stream. I need to know your story so that I can either be sad for you or angry at you. I like it and find me a more ergonomic screen anywhere. And it was broken, so it needed a new life and now it's an i5. And a 2060. All right. Ooh. So you're using an eGPU because frankly, it's pretty hard to get a GPU with proper cooling in here. But yeah, what would Apple care about perform- Wow, you've even got the rounded I.O. at the back. Is that 3D printed in there? Yeah, I used extensions, male to female, and 3D printed so that I can clamp them in place. All right. I reused the fan so the heat's coming out of the top and the original power supply, like everything I could, so I didn't mutilate it too badly. And you brought the original mouse, but you know better than to use it. I need to be able to right-click occasionally. Do you like this keyboard? No. Can I get you a better one? Sure. Vanna Jake over here has brought you a lovely ROG Strix Scope 296 wireless gaming keyboard. Oh, but it's black though. All right. Well, you don't have to have it. I'm just kidding. No, no, you don't have to have it. You don't have to have it. I mean, I thought it would go really great with your fantastic Designer Edition mousepad here. Absolutely perfect. I'm just going to leave you with all this. You can set that up. Enjoy. Thanks. Is that a looking glass? What the heck is going on with you? I need attention. What did you capture these on? The Lytro. You own a Lytro camera? Why? Because it works with that. I didn't even see this. You are not gaming on this. Bootcamp works, mostly. You understand that the point of a laptop is that it's supposed to be light and thin and portable. Okay, it's portable, but battery powered. I mean, what would happen if I just took out this thing? No, no, I'm not going to do that to you. I did it to someone else and even though I gave him a GPU upgrade, he seemed like legitimately angry. So it's fine. It's pretty jank already. So it doesn't shut all the way. What? It doesn't even close? No, the GPU hits the screen. That is so much worse than I thought it was. Ladies and gentlemen, we found him. The guy who stole Razer's Project Valerie. It's been all these years, but we got him. Okay, what's the story here? This is actually a peripheral. These screens aren't actually attached. It's a, it all comes off. It's a unit that you just attach with some USB-Cs and you're good to go. Very cool. Love it. Yeah. But why though? Oh, well, they left their business card. So why don't I just call them? Hi, this is Linus. I'm in the BYOC and I have a problem with your PC. Are you nearby? You're running. That's probably good because the situation is pretty urgent. Are you running fast or are you running slow? I'm running fast. Did you catch him? Yeah, I did. I did. Hi. The problem with your PC is that your monitor is a piece of ****. What is this angle? Also, why do you need this here? Because I sneeze. This video is sponsored by ASUS, so I'm not going to be too down on, you know, ASUS to make good products or whatever. But this is what you're gaming on, sir. Yeah, it's what I could fit in my carry-on and the LTT backpack. Okay. Well, you're going to have some trouble getting home. Now, you have a hundred and sixty-five Hertz, tough gaming display that you can enjoy for the rest of the LAN and then figure out how to get home. I'm so happy. Thank you. All right. Congrats, dude. The worst laptop I've ever seen. No keyboard or screen even. You brought smell-o-vision to my LAN party. And the wearable one. I assume this is for in-game VR haptics. That's the plan. Yeah, it's got gimbal motors in it to pull on the fingertips. And held together with LTT cable ties. Well, I can't roast that. I was wearing this one around with it yesterday. It's kind of modular. Is the software still in progress? Pretty much. Yeah, I can't quite get this connected to my hotspot right now. I have a little thing on here where I can tap a few objects on the table, but reception's not great here. Bit the world's smallest DDR machine out of a toy. You are aware, sir, that part of the point of DDR is the physical exertion and coordination. You're aware I'm going to make a silly video out of this, right? Subscribe to BigRig Creates. He just did that. Absolutely. And I have no shame. I have to shout out this. And that's it. What's up, Linus? Are you taking the piss? I'm a whale. There's no piss here. I get the joke. It's just water. Oh, there's piss in the water. Oh, no. I didn't know about the piss. The gamer hygiene is real here. I love it. You're going to drag a DAC the size of a computer to a LAN party and you show up with these headphones. Linus, you've got to look at the back. What the heck is this? That is quite possibly the worst rear panel mod that I have ever seen. The reason is because he's got a PCI-E to PCI card riser adapter thing in here. So it made his Hammerfall DSP card, which I have never heard of before, but I guess is a digital sound processor. Too tall to fit in the case. Really, Celeron? It was. Oh, wow. Oh, my. That is absolutely filthy. And I think it is time for an upgrade. You are getting an upgrade to a Maximus Z790 Hero, a 13th Gen Core i9, 32 gigs of Vengeance RGB DDR5. Well, see you later. Congratulations. Enjoy your much faster computer. Yeah, I will. Maybe you could sell some of your old components and get a stand for your monitor. Well, this was a, I was in a rush. I had a triple monitor stand and had to bring a monitor as fast as I could. Buddy's not here, but I feel the need to point out what a huge trend this has been this year. Gone are the days of hauling giant desktops to LAN parties. Here are the days of bringing handheld computers and external monitors. It's kind of a sick setup. There's another one right here, two seats down, another ROG Ally. You've even got the external overpriced GPU. I mean the external GPU. It was overpriced. To be clear, I don't blame Asus for that. I'm looking at you, Nvidia. More Ally's. Whoa, no way. We've got one of the OG Whale LAN PCs and Buddy built a Lambo edition custom screwdriver here at the show. Freaking love it. Okay. This is only one computer. It actually happened, you guys. Someone was cheap enough that they weren't willing to actually buy a system for their SO. I knew after he made that video, someone would go for it. What's your excuse? Or wait, or is it you who controls the budget? Why didn't you buy him a computer? No comment. Something is different about this machine compared to the multi gamers one CPU setups that we've done in the past. And that is that I was informed and I can verify that there is only one GPU in here. A single RTX 3090. What are you using to do that? I'm using a software. It's oh, Astra multi-seat. Yeah. Oh, I've been wanting to do a video on this forever. I haven't tried it. Is it good? It's- oh. Once you get it running and working. It's great. It works as soon as you reboot your computer for any reason. Setting it up is a little jank. Okay, so then just never reboot your computer. Yeah, exactly. Perfect. Yeah, I have all of our peripherals split with Thunderbolt docks and at home. We actually have four people using this computer over one Thunderbolt cable and then the docks are just daisy chained to each other. The funny thing about that is Thunderbolt docks are so expensive. Are you sure it wouldn't have been more practical to just do some like budget additional rigs? Yeah, but where's the fun in that? Exactly. Yeah. There's nothing particularly cringe about your PC, but your gamer tag. 11 out of 10. Needs work, yeah. Anyone recognize this machine? My buddy from Hawaii is here and got his chair signed by just about everyone in the entire BYOC LAN. We're going to need to talk about this. What am I looking at? Because it appears to me that you've got an ITX system modded into here. You've put your own display into a Macintosh Plus and if my suspicions are correct, this is a Thunderbolt eGPU or something. This doesn't weigh anything. There's nothing in there. No, sir. Everything is completely inside this case itself. There's no external wires or anything except for this for the hard drive LED. That is sick. I have some bad news and some good news. Okay. The good news is you're about to get an upgrade. Oh, okay. The bad news is that you're going to have to get real creative about how to get an RTX 4070 into this computer. Uh... Wow. Yeah. Good luck, dude. Awesome. Good. You're going to have to maybe find like an old period printer or something. eGPU that or like, yeah. Yeah, have fun. But you like this kind of stuff. So enjoy it. Modding. Don't you love burdensome gifts? We should probably talk about this. You have too many screens. Not enough. I just broke the whole desk. This one's a touch screen. Yeah, that seems like a really smart way to game. I wish we had a case in our giveaway pile. What are you doing? Playing Guitar Hero. But your computer is off. No, it's on. Your fans are just off and your lights are off? Yes. I don't particularly like the RGB on my system, to be honest. Why are your fans off? Uh, because I like it quiet. This game's super easy to run because I'm running Clone Hero and it's really lightweight. All right. On the one hand, props for the Intellimouse. Gotta love it. Classic. On the other hand, I think your laptop is broken. It's bent backwards. Pretty sure that's not how this stand is supposed to work. I mean, it could be worse. You could be using a backpack as a laptop stand and your screen's not even friggin level or anything like that. Here, let me help you out. Hold on. Is this distracting for you in the game? A little bit. I think you fell down. More of this bulls**t. What is going on here? It works. I didn't say it doesn't work. As janky as this is, I think the jankiest thing about it is your cooling. So I'm going to both improve it. Wow. And make it more janky with the RUGEN 3 360 from ROG. So you're going to have great cooling for your CPU, but it's going to be an even more scattered mess. Yeah, I can just hang it off the back there. Of course you can. I believe in you. Obviously, this is like a perfectly cool gaming computer or whatever, but like, what? Yeah, it was really hard to get here. It's about a hundred and eighty pounds in total. Cool. And he's done a lot of gaming at the at the LAN, right? About 20 minutes next to me. We played som Golf with Your Friends and that was about it.  It's always like that. The ones with the biggest E-peens do the least actual gaming. Golf With Your Friends is pretty sick, though. I wasn't expecting this to be a trend, but I think you actually won. This is the worst monitor stand here at the LAN. Thank you. I made it myself. My biggest problem, however, is I noticed a distinct lack of Asus ROG who sponsored LTX this year. Enjoy a new headset. Thank you. I'm using AirPods. Yeah, I see that. It's terrible. Yeah, it is. His window broke while he was installing it. Wow, that is about 10 pounds of tempered glass fragments. Oh, that is so sad. Good thing Buddy brought a second computer. I already gave away the only monitor that had, but you would have definitely been a solid candidate with the, what is this, the 21 inch Apple Cinema display? 2004. 2004, baby. Gotta love those pixel response times. Wow. Who doesn't like motion blur? This is Apple. That's a feature, not a bug. I understand they were giving away these RGB lanterns. Oh, hi. How is it that you've come to end up with three of them? Well, one of them is his. Yeah, he stole one of them from me. I won one from Silva. Oh. And what in the Sam heck am I looking at here? It's a custom all-in-one cut out with a laser cutter. Took the monitor apart, strapped it to it, and all ATX components in it. Because you know what people do with laptop pieces, but then it's not as powerful. But those laptop ones are maybe a little thinner. The design plate's a proof of concept. Yeah, it sure is. Next one will hopefully be lighter. Maybe a little thinner. That's going to be pretty tough with the power supply that you just won. Oh, yeah. 1,000 watt ROG Thor Platinum II. I want to know what your plan is. Because you need to get all of this power in there. Maybe the next one's going to be thicker. I don't know. I would like that. It's been about half an hour. I wasn't expecting this to happen quite so fast. But the 4070 is now in there being supported by the trophy that you won in one of the tournaments here. Yeah, exactly. Good job. Yeah, thanks. Less successful story back here where the new GPU has not made its way into the rig yet. Would it be wrong to just give prizes to Luke's dad? Oh, yeah. Do you know where this person is right now? Not exactly. Can you make sure that they don't show up for a while? Maybe. OK, do you have a screwdriver on you? Oh, the Stubby LTT screwdriver. Fantastic. Is this your friend? Or like, yeah, cool. He's getting a GPU upgrade. Send him on some fetch quest. Send him to go get food. I don't care. 3060 TI, pretty respectable GPU. And it's gone. Instead, we're going to have a 4070 TI. Tough gaming. Let's go. Oh, man. Stubby is actually not always the best tool for every use case. Anybody screwdriver? Never have to go far for, dang it, see if this works. I didn't even check the capacity of this power supply. Good luck, everybody. How far away are they? They're across the street at the food court. OK, but are they coming back now? I'm not sure. He stopped responding when I said get back here. Now Linus is here. This is yours now. He's not allowed to have it back. OK. He got a better one. He shouldn't want it. OK. OK, so that's your GPU now. So you're going to tell him, Linus said that I get to keep your GPU now. OK. Uh-oh, I'm not getting an output. We probably should have gotten to the point of having the system fired up before we called them back. Is this monitor not turning on? Oh, hello. Are you flipping kidding me? We were so close to the finish line, boys. Do you still have that 3060? Sorry, it's his again just in case he needs it. Let him know good luck. I think he needs a new power supply. See you later. OK. That's it. That's all. Just a massive shout out to Asus ROG for sponsoring LTX 2023 and for hooking us up with these great giveaways for all the fine folks who attended Whale LAN here. If you guys enjoyed this video, you might enjoy, you know what? Some of the awesome behind the scenes that we have from Whale LAN and from LTX 2023 over on floatplane.com. We're going to have that link down below. It's LMG.GG slash floatplane.