TSMC’s founding in 1987 would launch 
two new types of semiconductor firms:   Foundries and design firms. Foundries 
and the complexities of semiconductor   manufacturing have been taking most of the 
headlines. If you are interested in that,   you can check out my TSMC YouTube playlist, linked 
below in the description. But the design firms   fabless are just as vital. They are the 
customers who keep the foundries fed. Taiwan also has a thriving fabless semiconductor 
ecosystem. In this video, we are going to look at   the largest of those fabless companies: MediaTek 
or MTK. I will use both names interchangeably. Over the years, the Hsinchu-based company built 
a place for itself designing and fabbing mobile   phone chips for developing markets. Qualcomm 
is the industry leader, and they make the sexy   super-fast chips that gadget enthusiasts lust for. 
But MediaTek has been doing quite well for itself. MediaTek began in 1997 as a spinoff startup.   It had been a part of United Microelectronics 
Corporation or UMC. UMC was Taiwan's first   indigenous semiconductor company and had been 
operating as an integrated device manufacturer.   This means it designed, 
fabbed, and sold its own chips. As I said in my video about how Taiwan 
created its semiconductor industry,   UMC came out of the same research institute 
as TSMC - ITRI. UMC had done okay at first   but TSMC leapt out of the gate with its 
innovative new business model. UMC decided   that in order to keep up, it needed to pivot and 
also adopt the independent foundry business model. But customers could not accept UMC as 
an independent foundry unless they knew   that UMC would not compete with it. So to 
gain customer trust, they decided to spin   off their semiconductor design operations as 
multiple companies. Thus was founded MediaTek,   which had once been UMC's R&D department 
for multimedia devices. Ergo the name. Current Chairman Ming-Kai Tsai had been a 
design manager at ITRI and joined UMC in 1983   as its Director of R&D. Over the years, he 
climbed the ranks and eventually oversaw   the development of UMC's memory 
and multimedia business units.   So he was the natural choice to 
lead this small multimedia startup. True to its multimedia device roots, MediaTek 
began with the opportunity afforded by   the growing CD-ROM, DVD, and Blu-Ray market. 
Those devices needed controller chips to work.   That chip market was currently 
dominated by Japanese suppliers. MediaTek defeated those incumbents by offering a 
cheaper, highly integrated system on a chip. They   contracted with independent foundries like UMC and 
TSMC to build this chip. Since the foundries took   care of the manufacturing, it allowed MediaTek 
to focus on the design and selling. This is the   crux of the fabless semiconductor model. It 
is also, as it turns out, very profitable. Taiwan-based CD-ROM manufacturers like BTC and 
Lite-On adopted MediaTek’s solution first and   soon thereafter Hitachi, Sony and LG. They 
would win a 50% share of the CD market. MediaTek followed up their CD success with 
DVDs. Their big breakout hit in that market   was supplying chips to Apex Digital, which made a 
cheap DVD player that sold very well in America.   Sony and Philips then signed 
on for their own DVD players. Just four years after MediaTek's spinoff, 
the company was generating about $200 million   in annual revenue. It was already Taiwan's 
second largest fabless semiconductor firm.   But Tsai envisioned his company doing more than 
just DVD players and set upon a brand new market:   Mobile phones. MTK began studying the 
mobile phone market in 2001,   long before the iPhone. So most phones back then 
were simple flip phones. I had one a long time   ago. They formally entered the market three years 
later, soon capturing 14% global market share. MediaTek's style of business is to attack 
entrenched players in markets after they mature.   Their go-to-market strategy for doing 
so is to offer a "turnkey" solution   to their customers. That means that MediaTek 
offers for a particular device category   a "skeleton", called a reference design. These MTK turnkey reference designs might be 
low-priced, but boast high quality features   like touchscreens, 5G connectivity and good 
cameras. They also come with well-tested software.   To help their customers best 
modify the reference design,   MediaTek also offers a development 
SDK as well as technical training. Customers buy these designs and modify 
them to best suit their business strategy.   How so? It depends on the customer. One 
smartphone maker specialized in phones   for farmers. They modified their 
phones to have extremely loud speakers   so that the farmers can hear 
them ring while in the fields.   Or they can decide not to modify anything, slap 
on a brand, and just sell the whole design as is. MTK's reference designs were very 
popular globally, with many unique   features requested by customers for their own 
local market. For instance, Brazilians like   to switch between different telecoms, so their 
phones needed to have as many as 4 SIM slots. With MTK, a phone vendor can now start their own 
phone brand without having to reinvent the wheel.   It cut the go-to-market time from 9 or 12 months   to just 2 or 3 months. Furthermore, the financial 
startup cost would be just half a million USD. This "white labeling" business practice is not 
unfamiliar to Taiwanese electronics vendors. For   example, Acer's UniLoad system - best described 
as a skeleton desktop computer - was a modular   system that sold very well in Latin America. 
It drove much of Acer's growth in the 1990s. The iPhone and the smartphone era it launched 
would upend the traditional desktop computing   paradigm. MediaTek quickly realized that they 
needed a smartphone offering of their own. In 2012, the company rolled out 
their first Android designs.   They had actually started three years 
earlier in 2009 with Windows Mobile,   but nobody wanted that. It was a big flop and 
actually caused a dip in company revenue in 2011. One example design is Mediatek MT6589, a quad-core 
chip manufactured on TSMC's 28-nanometer process   and released in December 2012. Phones using 
this ARM core would be priced at $150-$200   off-contract, but worked as well as the higher-end 
phones of the era (i.e. the Nexus 4 or iPhone 4S). Many of MTK's designs went to China. It 
is the dominant mobile chipset in China,   with nearly 40% market share. The Chinese 
handset market back in those early years   were rough and tumble. Price and features was the 
main differentiators and an ecosystem of cheap,   low-end mobile phone makers 
sprouted to fill the need. MTK's chipsets powered many of those early Oppo, 
Xiaomi and ZTE phones. It meant that MTK was in a   position to sell picks and shovels to the gold 
miners. When those domestic smartphone makers   took the China market away from foreign brands 
like Samsung and LG, MTK benefited handsomely. MediaTek's fabless focus and its suppliers' 
manufacturing prowess meant that its chips were   often very good. The company wants their chips 
to be disruptors in the market. They bring once   premium features to the low-cost market and eat 
their way up to challenge the market incumbents. MediaTek’s reliance on the China market means 
that this Taiwanese company depends very much   on friendly relations with the mainland. That 
means a few potentially thorny situations. Here is one example that occurred in 
November 2015. That month, Zhao Weiguo,   CEO of Tsinghua Unigroup, visited Taiwan and 
lobbied the government to amend its law to   allow it to acquire MediaTek. MediaTek, along 
with many other Taiwanese semiconductor makers,   in 2015 was struggling from a weak economy. Tsinghua had already purchased MTK’s biggest 
mainland rival - Spreadtrum. Merging with MTK   would have created the world's largest 
fabless semiconductor maker at the time   and a true rival to Qualcomm. Careful of angering its valuable Chinese 
customers, MediaTek issued a cautious press   release saying that they were amenable to 
negotiations. But the Taiwanese government   would eventually decline to open up its 
semiconductor makers to Chinese acquisition. Luckily for MediaTek and the Taiwanese government, 
Tsinghua soon fell to its own debt issues and so   nothing came of it. MediaTek would recover 
from its woes and more. In late 2020,   industry analysis firm CounterPoint found 
that MediaTek had been the world's leading   smartphone chipset vendor in Q3 2020, 
beating Qualcomm for the first time. Taiwan's semiconductor and electronics 
makers are critical to its overall economy.   There are strong Taiwanese companies in 
other fields such as Giant for bicycles   or Formosa Plastics for plastics, but the heart 
and soul of Taiwan's economy is in electronics. Taiwan's fabless design firms 
and foundries work together   in a harmony to push ahead and challenge 
integrated device manufacturers like Intel. The foundries need the input of their customers 
to push them and keep them on their toes.   Each fabless designer benefits from the combined   investment and knowledge from many other 
designers like themselves. It helps keep   them at their very best and at the cutting edge 
of the ultra-competitive electronics space.