- So when our friends at Omen
asked to sponsor this video. I had a big question. So earlier this year at
CES I took a look at this, the Omen Transcend 14, and
it is one of their most lightweight, thin laptops
they've ever made, but the competition in this
space is tremendously fierce. So let's take a look to
see, is this any good? Inside we have the laptop itself. Oh, this is the bundle. Okay, I didn't know this. So this comes with the
HyperX Cloud III wireless. So there's a lot of interesting things that the Omen team have
done with this device. It is very thin, while,
obviously you're always gonna be giving up a little
bit of top-end performance for something which is super
thin and light, but this to me is the right blend of
portability and performance and every single one of these
Omens, as far as I know, maybe there's a configuration I'm missing, but as far as I know, every
single one of these Omens has the same 2.8K, 120 hertz OLED panel, which (imitates kissing
sound) OLED, baby. Alright, so I'm going
to set this laptop up and spend a little bit of time with it, but the main question I
have is really simple one. If you are looking for
a 14 inch gaming laptop, and I'll be honest, kind of the best size, is the Omen Transcend 14 worth a look. Because on paper there are a
lot of things going for it. The most eye-catching thing
is definitely the keyboard, especially in this white colorway. It looks sick. Now they're using pudding style key caps, which really emphasize the RGB. And I'll be honest, it helps
the Transcend stand out amongst the excellent
competitors in this size class. Now, if you couldn't tell already, I love the 14 inch form factor. In my opinion, it is the perfect balance between portability and functionality. Now the Omen is using an
all metal chassis here that still comes in as
the lightest gaming laptop that HP have ever made. But importantly, Omen
didn't skimp on power. You get up to an RTX 4070
and a 71 Watt-hour battery giving you up to eight
hours of battery life. If that's not enough for you, don't worry, because it also comes with a
140 watt charger, so you can get back to 50% of your
charge in just 30 minutes. Now I'll give a slight mention to the actual USB-C charger itself. While the 140 watt works
very well and very fast, I actually sometimes like to
use a smaller 65 watt charger, and I actually found that that
did not work on the Omen. So if I could throw a
suggestion to the HP team, if there's some kind of firmware update to let me use lower wattage
USB-C, that would be dope. The Transcend can also be equipped with up to an Intel Core Ultra 9 185H, one of the most powerful laptop
processors on the market. Now, I actually really like this choice. Most other laptops in
this class use either AMD or the Intel HX series chips. Don't get me wrong, those
are both strong options, but the Core Ultra chips
have solid efficiency with six high performance
cores, eight efficiency cores, and two high efficiency cores,
which do make a difference for battery life in normal tasks. Same thing goes for the
built-in Intel Arc Graphics, when you don't need the RTX GPU fired up and the Intel NPU being
on board for AI tasks. Look, I think this was a smart move. Intel also helped co-develop the hyperbaric cooling
solution, which is a big reason why the Omen is as thin as it is. Now, if you look at this
like a gaming laptop, that thinness and battery
efficiency might not sound all that important, but it is a big reason why you would even think about
buying a laptop like this. No, it is not going to crush 4K Ultra and 120 FPS, and a 250 watt TGP. This is a laptop that
is potent for gaming, but it puts an equal amount of weight on usability and creative tasks. Personally, I think that's a smart move. That is all very cool, but what is this like to actually use? So this is the mid-spec model,
which does come outfitted with the Core Ultra 7
as well as the RTX 4060, as you can see here, is
easy to get pretty much any game playable at a very
respectable frame rate. This is Cyberpunk running at
the full 1800P resolution, with of course, DLSS
enabled on high settings and 60 FPS is not difficult to hit. Now, on top of that, because
it's such a thin and light laptop and they do have
that hyperbaric cooling, you'll find that while,
yeah, you can certainly hear the fans, that it's
actually pretty reasonable. There we go, above 60 FPS. Now, obviously we can
turn the settings down just a little bit if we wanna
fully hit that 120 hertz of the display, but
with a device like this, there's always a little
bit of compromise involved, but that's a good thing. Yes, I could get a larger,
thicker, heavier laptop that would gimme a little
bit more performance, but I'm sacrificing all of the usability, all of the portability that I love about this 14 inch form factor. Next up, we've got CS2 and I'm using the Cloud
III wireless headset that can come bundled with the laptop. The main reason why you want
to use this HyperX headset with the Omen is it actually
doesn't need a dongle. You literally pull it outta
the box, hit the power button, and it is immediately paired. This is a great game to show this off because while a lot of games, I'm probably gonna play
like 60 FPS if I'm honest, but the fact that you've
got more eSports titles that you can easily saturate
the 120 hertz refresh rate of this beautiful OLED,
and you can even run some of these games at
the full resolution too, which you normally shouldn't. You should pretty much
always be running them a little bit lower than
2.8K on a 14 inch display, but it's nice. Fortnite, another game
that I always like to test is also very playable here,
so we're getting 80 to 90 FPS, again, running it full resolution with DLSS enabled on high settings. So what I like about this laptop, and one of the things I think
is really interesting about it is the fact that yes, it's
got the 14 inch display, OLED, it looks terrific, it's got a good amount of performance, but it's also good for
more than just gaming. So if I wanna say, oh, I don't
know, make a sick, amount of, did I die? One thing it definitely
has going for is speed. So it does have Windows Hello on board. So it unlocks and gets going very quickly and the inputs are fairly solid. I think this keyboard looks really nice. It maybe could use a
little bit more of a click, but it's very standard for
gaming laptop keyboards. Something I will say that I'm not a huge fan of are the speakers. So if we listen to 'em a little bit here, (bright upbeat music) they're fine, but they lack
a little bit of low end and that's a consequence of
their bottom firing somewhere. I actually don't know. Oh yeah, yeah, they're
bottom firing right here, which is not ideal. Now the reason why I bring this
up is because I always think that especially with an all new design, there's room for improvement. The speakers are fine,
but could be better, and same thing goes with the keyboard. If it had a little bit more of a click, I think they would actually go a long way toward giving you a little bit more of a better gaming experience
and typing experience. That being said, these
are all minor nitpicks that I think could be
improved in the future, but none of it really detracts
from the overall package here, which I will just
say is quite strong. I don't want a couple of little complaints to sort of overshadow
what they've done here because HP and the Omen
team, they've done something that's quite special,
like this is something that is far better than
it really needed to be. So is the Omen Transcend 14 worth it? Maybe I'm a little biased
since it's my favorite form factor, but I'm honestly
pretty impressed with Omen. HP could have absolutely just phoned it in and shipped a shrunken version
of their larger Omen laptops and just called it a day. But it's clear that they
put real effort in here between the excellent
display, eye-catching design and respectable performance. To get a foothold in the
market, though, the Omen team have to be aggressive on price, and I'll give them props for that. While the laptop starts at $1,600 MSRP and can reach over $2,000
when you fully spec it out, they've got some good deals on hp.com, they bring that base
model down to just $1,200, which is super aggressive. The RTX 4060 configuration,
at just under $1,300 in white will be my pick, since
you're always going to find diminishing returns when you
max out a thin and light laptop just purely from a thermal perspective. But at the end of the
day, the Omen Transcend 14 is an incredibly solid pick. If you wanna check it out, of course, I'll have a link in the description. And thank you very much to Omen and Intel for sponsoring this video. Good job, y'all. This thin and light gaming laptop space is absolutely on fire right now, and this is one of the
strongest options out there.