Okay this is a sequence that has everything; 
it's got mystery, it's got a simple definition,   great music - it's called the Inventory Sequence 
and it was invented by a guy called Joseph   Rozhenko and it goes like this. We're gonna 
build up a sequence, every so often we will   pause and take an inventory of it and repeat. I'm 
going to start off: here's what we have so far,   blank paper. And I ask you, how many 0s can you 
see? Zero. So we write down, we have zero 0s. And   when we see a 0 we have to take stock again, 
we take a new inventory because we're missing   something, okay. Okay so now we say, Brady, how 
many 0s do we see? Huh? I can see one. So we have   one 0. Brady how many 1s can I see? Well I can 
see one 1 so we have one 1. How many 2s can I see?   Zero 2s. Okay when we get to a 0 we have to take 
inventory again: how many 0s do we see? Two 0s. How   many 1s do we see? Two. How many 2s do we see? Well 
we didn't have any but now we have two 2s so we   have two 2s. And how many 3s do we see? Well I don't 
see any 3s, we have zero 3s. Time to take stock, we   got to a 0. How many 0s do we see? One, two, three -  
three 0s. How many 1s? One, two. And how many 2s do   we have? Well we have one, two, three, four 2s.
- (Brady: Oh so the inventory is taking stock as it grows as well?)   Yes..that's what makes it interesting. And then we keep 
going; how many 3s do we have? Well I can see one 3   so we have one 3. How many 4s? Well there's a 
4 so we have one 4. How many 5s? Zero 5s. We get to   a 0: time to take stock. How many 0s do we have? One, 
two, three, four. How many 1s? One, two, three, four. How   many 2s? One, two, three, four 2s. How many 3s? I can 
only see one, so one 3. How many 4s? Well there was   one there, but we now have three more so we have 
four 4s. And how many 5s? None. And that's how it   goes; the next line it always starts with n because 
we will- each row gives us a zero. Now we have one,   two, three, four, five 0s. So the first entry of each 
row is 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and so   on and the number of 1s and 2s and 3s grows in a 
rather irregular way. And if you were to look at a   plot you can see they're in groups and the groups 
correspond to the rows, the chunks, of the sequence   that we're building up and it always starts with- 
the nth chunk begins with n and then well it goes   up and down. The sequence we're looking at is not 
just- it's the concatenation - the stringing together   of all the chunks. This whole thing is the sequence 
and what we're drawing actually is a pin plot   officially. So there's one other sequence I've seen 
in the past this was Jan Ritsema van Eck sequence that I did a video for you about, the van Eck's- the famous 
van Eck sequence. And I told van Eck about this   and he made a plot of the first thousand terms which was very interesting, quite hopeful. Here's   his graph - he went out to a thousand terms. 
His plot just joined successive terms, it's   not a pin plot like the first one but it looks like this.
- (And we always see it plunge down to)  (0 for those inventory moments?)
- When it comes 
down to 0, precisely so yes. And he noticed   that if you look at the upper- the envelope 
of these points, it's about square root of 2n.   In fact the this is- it's a famous sequence. It's 
the sequence that goes 1, 1, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 4, 4, 4, 4, 4 
where each number- 1 appears twice, 2 appears   three times, 3 appears four times, 4 appears 
five times; n appears n+1 times. It's- it- and   it grows like very like square root of 2n. And 
that's what he's drawn in brown here, and you   can see it gives you a very good idea of how 
fast these things are growing for the first   thousand terms. And then he did a bigger plot, ten 
thousand terms, and the brown line is useless, it   grows much faster. 
- (So it's not doing square root of 2n anymore?)
- It's not going square root of   2n, it's way bigger than square root of 2n. 
- (It just seems to suddenly leap and then leap again)   (like it doesn't- it's odd.)
- It's a real odd one, it's 
very irregular and wonderful. So- and each clump   is a a kind of development of the previous 
chunk. I would like to play it for you. You know,   any of the sequences in the OEIS, you click 
listen and you can hear them. I'm going to   play that one on the grand piano for you.
- (Or on a Mac!) 
- Or on a Mac using GarageBand, yes. As it's going along we're seeing the 
chunks which are the rows of the table.   And each chunk begins with a higher and higher- 
one higher note than the previous chunk, but then   they're rather irregular. And if you look at the 
picture of the- of the plot of the sequence that   garage band is actually playing you can see 
it's divided up into chunks and the chu- each   chunk is a little bit like the previous chunk 
but keeps changing and they also get longer   each time. So I think of this as variations on 
a theme like Beethoven's Diabelli variations   where he was- Diabelli proposed the theme and 
Beethoven embroidered it, produced a series of   variations on it. Here we have the variations 
but we don't know what the theme is. And you can hear when it gets to the end 
of a chunk, there's a string of low numbers   like the 0s and 1s at the end of that and 
you can hear them down at the bottom of the   keyboard and then it starts up again. So 
there's a well-defined notion of chunk   of variations you could say - except we 
don't know the theme. You can see it's getting more interesting as 
it goes along, there's more variation and you   can see it graphically. The sequence gets more 
and more complicated as you study it and really   in the end we don't know that much about it.
Rémy Sigrist made a plot of the first 10 to   the 8th terms - 100 million terms - and there's 
a very interesting structure. This is the same   sequence, it's just represented by dots; each term 
is now a dot on the piece of paper. And you can   see something very strange is happening, this is 
a 100 million terms and we're going along   and the points sort of fall on lines but the lines 
cross each other. This is very unusual in this kind   of sequence. Normally the lines get further and 
further apart as we go along; what's happening here   is the lead is changing. Sometimes there'll be more 
8s than anything else, the 8s will dominate,   but then after a while the 9s will take over, 
there'll be more 9s than 8s. And then maybe   after a while the 8s take over again and 
that's why these lines are crossing. And really   this is a really mysterious sequence, it would be 
nice to know more about it.
- (Do you think there's)   (any value to mathematics in here? I mean this is a 
recreational sequence, isn't it, and you've found a)   (a quirky thing but do you sometimes think there's 
some hidden meaning or depth or importance to this?)   There could be. Maybe not, maybe so. You know, one 
of the things that John Conway did was to take   what you might say small problems like 
this and make theories out of them and   connect them with other things; and I 
think that's a very good thing to do.   So maybe in itself it's just a 
sequence, but who knows where it will lead.   Now here's a great sequence for you to grapple 
with courtesy of today's episode sponsor Jane Street. We've got an infinite pathway with 
numbered stones but each stone also has a   number like this: we've got 1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4 - you get the picture.  The red numbers indicate the size of the leap you 
can make from each stone, either forward or back. Can't be more or less, that's the exact size. 
So how many leaps does it take to reach each   stone on the pathway? For example if you want to 
reach this stone, well that's going to take five   leaps as you can see. As you aim for stones further 
down the path some very interesting patterns and   problems emerge. Check out this page on the Jane 
Street website to dig deeper. While you're there,   if you've got a brain for problems and numbers and 
stuff like this, you may be the sort of person to   join Jane Street's genius teams around the world. 
They've got offices in Hong Kong, New York, London;   check out details on their website. There'll be 
links in the video description and have some fun   with this infinite pathway.
- Well it was a choice, we 
could put the 6 here...no no I can't put it there   because that's got neighbor 5, 4 and 1. I 
could only put a 10 there aha. You've got to put   them in order, yes. You've got to build your way up. 
- So it's not what's the highest value can I get on   the board, it's what's the highest value I can get 
on the board building in order.
- Building in order