- I can hear you perfectly. (machine whirs) For this episode of Broke vs Pro, my far superior iPhone 14 Pro
is going to go head to head with Ken's iPhone SE 3, the broke phone. - This might be the budget iPhone, but there's a lot of punch to it. (punch thwacks) - I was gonna do that.
- No, no, no. - The video will be immediately over 'cause I was gonna break your phone. Well, the short first
challenge is going to enable us to both create a 60 second video in a one hour time span. It's going to be judged by our good buddy Matt
Ansini, from This Is, who's definitely gonna get
paid off by Ken to let him win. - Game on.
- Okay, cool. The problem is your camera's small so it's gonna look better. So my thought with the iPhone 14 Pro is that I need to show off the very many excellent camera features. So I think what I'm gonna lean into is showing off the technical
wizardry of the iPhone 14 Pro. - So I am here in the Denki studio and I'm going to be shooting a
YouTube short for my channel. And what better way to showcase this off than to feature a new product,
such as this DJI OM 5. I have my whole array of
studio lighting gear here which is definitely not
something that everyone that's gonna buy a budget phone will have. But that's okay. I'm here to win. - [Joanna] I will say lighting
is a pretty important part. - Should I use action mode to transition to the studio to finish the video? - [Joanna] Yeah. - Ready to run, okay.
- Oh wait, no I wasn't. - You have to run, okay. - [Joanna] Oh yeah, yeah, I'm running. - I should probably
start with my face first. So we're gonna do selfie video first. - Wait, where's Ken? - [Joanna] I don't know. Sabotage is the word.
- Yes. Let's go sabotage Ken. Hello, today you're gonna see me blend in. Uh-oh.
- uh-oh. - I'm just gonna sneak in
using the auto focus camera. - [Joanna] No, no, no, come on. - Okay, that didn't really quite work the way I had intended. Is that the sponsor of today's
Broke Versus Pro, CASETiFY? Did they send me a lovely gift? So inside... (gentle music) Oh boy. One of the things that
CASETiFY has going for them is it they will allow you
to customize your case. This one's a personal favorite. I've always wanted VGA ports on my iPhone and now I have 'em. Now they have an online tool which makes it very easy
for you to customize, to add names, logos, all kinds of stuff. Utility strap. I'm just carrying my
phone around like this. So with the cases unboxed you can see the eco shock technology. So especially when you look on the inside you can see that there's some
serious corner protection and it also has full
compatibility with MagSafe. There's a whole line of CASETiFY cases. and one of the nice things is they do use a bunch of eco-friendly materials. So this actually says on the side, this case is made from
recycled phone cases. They also use a lot of, like, plant-based materials and whatnot. But look, that's a lot of talk. I am of course the pro iPhone user. I need to show the most
pro drop test possible. (phone clatters) Woo hoo hoo hoo. And look, we're totally fine. No worries at all. If you would like to
get your own CASETiFY, definitely be sure to go head
over to casetify.com/austin to get yourself a 15% discount. With tons of prints and customizations, CASETiFY has something for everyone. And big thank you to CASETiFY for sponsoring this episode
of Broke Versus Pro. I'm feeling pretty good about this masterpiece
of a video I've gotten. So now it's time to edit it entirely, of course, on the iPhone 14 Pro. Like to see Ken try to edit on his iPhone SE screen for ants. - This is the DJI OM 5 and it's gonna make my
YouTube shorts even better. - So I'm making good progress. I'm using a video editor called LumaFusion which is really, really terrific. Starting to add my audio, my transitions, that kind of stuff. But Ken doesn't know that
I've got a secret weapon. Now if I am a professional user, I need professional level audio. Some might argue that the
fact that I'm using headphones that cost more than Ken's
phone is a little unfair. And to that I would say,
life isn't fair, kid. Pros need pro gear. - Everyone knows iPhones are important, but AirPods are crucial to audio quality, at least in the wireless sense. So Austin has put me here in
this very sketchy dark room to see how the audio will sound over a call with these AirPods versus... (machine whirs) - Too bad you don't have
active noise cancellation like the AirPods Max do. - My hair. No. No. - So would you like to
give our esteemed judge, Matt a call and see how
well he can understand, and you can hold a conversation. - Yo, so my name is Ken. (machine whirs) It's currently 90 degrees outside. Actually doing anything to recover. How are you doing? - So, I'm gonna be honest,
that actually isn't that bad until he gets right next to you. - Really? You actually sound totally fine. Wait. - I'm gonna give that like a B plus. - Ooh, B plus he says. Oh, he don't look happy.
- I might be in trouble. - Here's the thing, these cost like 20 times less than yours. - Hey. - 3, 2, 1. (machine whirs) - So. That's a lot of wind in my face. He's trying to blow up. So, Matt. (phone static crackles) Can you hear me at all? Matt, Matt. (machine whirs) (Ken laughs) - This is way worse, for the record. - I can hear you perfectly. Matt, I can hear you, I can hear you. (phone static crackles) Ow, my eyes hurt. - I gotta give you like
at best a D on that. - A D? - Most of the time me quote
unquote understanding you was 'cause I was reading your lips. - Matt says that he thinks
the AirPods Max are great and that I definitely won that half. - [Matt] No, I did not. - [Austin] It was D for
definitely a winner. - He's gonna get points off for that. You hear that crystal clear? - So, for Broke Versus Pro, the next test is going to be very simple. Who is the best at Call of Duty mobile? Now with the pro phone,
120 hertz refresh rate and the power of the Apple A16 bionic, I think I've got this one in the bag. - Yeah, meanwhile I got the A15. Don't mind the fact that
I'm charging it right now because the-
- Your battery's already dead. - Yeah.
- See what I did. - Yeah. - You know, the problem with
your screen being so small? - My fingers have no room to do anything. - If only you had such a
high quality gaming device as the backbone. - He really needed a backbone
'cause he never had one. - [Camera operator] Ooh. - I'm out. Bye. - [Camera operator] Oh my God. - That was... Let's just jump into a match
and we'll figure it out. But you should, we should start
recording at the same time. I am gonna use the backbone button to just start recording. - I mean, Apple already
has a thing for this. I just have to swipe up from the bottom. From the bottom. Oh it's Crash. Oh my God,
this is the COD format. Let's go. - First of 50. Oh, we're in the same team, I realized. Okay fine, whoever gets the most kills. - That's what I was telling you. I am getting kills, my guy. Stealing your kill. - What the?
- There we go. - [Austin] Where did he go? - [Ken] I killed him. I just said, I stole your kill. - [Austin] You know I think
we're playing against Boss 'cause we're currently 39 and 2. - [Ken] Yeah, that would do it. Oh, we won. - [Austin] That's it? Okay, we just finished
that in like two minutes. - Yeah, I do feel like you
probably had more kills than me. - Well, I'll tell you,
we're both 14 and 1. We were completely tied. - Oh wow. - Yeah, we were tied across the board. Kills, assists, everything. - I think that says a
lot more for the fact that I'm using a little
tiny screen and my thumbs. How about this? Give me the backbone
and why don't you play- - Sure, you know what? That's fine. I will gladly... I'm gonna
stop my recording though. Also, I really hope my
recording's working. - So, a slight- - I don't need to hear it,
I don't need to hear it. I don't need-
- Slight, slight issue here. Austin was like, oh, I'm
gonna use my button to record and it didn't record. And yes, that doesn't mean I have the benefit of the
backbone to redo this. - I'm not sure how this is
fair, but you know what? - [Joanna] But the odds
were in your favor. - You literally had the
tools, the keys to success. - [Austin] Free for all one more time. - [Ken] Oh, this feels nice. - [Austin] Oh my god, this is terrible. - Let's go, let's go. The power's in my hand. - [Austin] Oh wow, this is really bad. - [Ken] That's what I was telling you. Do you see why this test is stupid? - [Austin] How do you aim? - Just-
- Oh, you go down the sights. There we go. Yo.
- This is so bad. - [Ken] Disadvantage- - [Austin] Yeah, that
guy shot you in the back. - [Ken] Let's go, double. Oh God. Triple. Oh baby, a quad. Oh baby, let's go. - That's bad. I don't like that. - [Ken] Let's go. Knife
kills. Knife kills. Go. Yes. - [Austin] Oh. - Triple. - Oh. How did you go from like 8 to
20 kills in like 10 seconds? - Call of Duty is terrible at spawns. - So, final score, I got
11 kills and you got 20. We were one and two. I can't believe I've lost. I can't believe this. Before our esteemed judge
Matt determines the winner, why don't you take a look at the videos that we have carefully crafted. - I have a feeling that you haven't carefully crafted this at all. You just kind of rushed through
it pretty, pretty quickly. - I mean, can I say that I was
done 30 minutes before Ken? - That tracks, that tracks. - This is the DJI OM 5 and it's gonna make my
YouTube shorts even better. First of all, this thing is really compact and it charges via USBC. Slightly over a hundred
bucks, not too bad. But there are some key features here that make this thing awesome. It's spring loaded, has
this neat little grip that also doubles as a tripod stand and holds your phone via magnets. Plus it's a selfie stick. Requires a little bit
of setup with their app including some calibration. But once you're all set up, this thing tracks you like
it's no one's business. Look at it go. - Action. - No iPhone 14 action mode necessary. OM 5 video, pretty good. Let me know what you
think in the comments. - So, pretty good video. I mean well crafted. I don't know whether it's
the speaker or the mic, audio didn't sound amazing. - Yeah, I mean to be fair,
I was rushing in the edit, so I was like, I had it, like, here. - Yeah. So I think you would've-
- Benefited. - Benefited from using the AirPods. It was very clear hearing the distance you had away from the mic. I gotta ding you there. That was a really good video.
- Thank you. - Today I'm going to tell you
exactly why the iPhone 14 Pro is the greatest device
made by human hands. With an incredible 48
megapixels to work with plus an ultra wide and a telephoto camera, you can see into the future. Something else the
iPhone has going for it, is cinematic mode. It's as if I'm using a high
end professional camera, but no, it's a high-end
professional iPhone. The greatest part about the
iPhone is the action mode which means that as you
transition from studio to studio you get the ultimate in image quality. The other advantage to the iPhone 14 Pro is it's incredible telephoto camera. Look how far away I am or am I? Hey Matt, don't you love
the autofocus camera? Isn't it great? And with the capabilities
of the incredible macro mode on the iPhone 14 Pro, it is
the clear and obvious answer and really the only iPhone
that you could possibly choose for this particular challenge. - [Joanna] Oh my God. - So. - That certainly was one of the videos. Do you have a solar
burst star wipe in there? As a former film professor, I would've failed you immediately. So while Austin had more
features available to him which is often the case with a pro setup, it's what you do with them. And I gotta give point to Ken on that. I think like, I think he
crafted the video better and I think you had the ability to and you just leaned into the features of just running around
with your sport mode. - Plus he said that he
could look into the future which is definitely not true, because he would've seen
this coming a long time ago. - That's a software
patch, that's not out yet. Marques has have been
using it for two weeks. - Until we meet again, Broke Versus Pro. Until we meet again. (gentle music)