In a previous video, I talked about Hong Kong's 
water supply and its relations to the Chinese   mainland. If you want to watch that video 
first, you can. It is an interesting overview   of the colony's attempts to build for itself 
a drinking water supply independent of China. Basically, the colonial government long realized   that it needed aquifers and reservoirs 
to meet the needs of its population.   But the increasing costs of managing that 
population combined with warming ties with   Communist China meant that it was far cheaper 
to just buy that water from the motherland. In this video, I want to discuss 
a similar water supply situation.   Except the two parties are Singapore and 
Malaysia rather than Hong Kong and China.   Their history of water relations is fascinating. I remember during my time in Singapore that 
it would rain almost every day at around 4   PM exactly. And not just your ordinary 
sprinkle - a downpour that made me feel   like I needed an ark and two of every 
animal. Ruined my good shoes and socks. Considering this embarrassment of rain (2.4 
meters worth a year), you might be surprised   to find out that the city-state suffers 
from a scarcity of fresh, drinking water. Like with Hong Kong, certain aspects of 
the island's geography means that most of   that rainwater does not flow into groundwater 
reservoirs. Singapore is small, and there are   not enough areas where rainwater can gather. 
As a result, Singapore's per capita natural   fresh water resource comes in below the United 
Nations scarcity benchmark of 1000 cubic meters. Furthermore, it has a relatively large 
population of about 5 million people.   Domestic water usage makes up a slight 
minority of water usage in the country.   Most of it goes to industry and 
commercial use. For example,   the country's semiconductor fabs require a steady 
supply of clean, pure water to clean their wafers. Malaysia for its part has a lot of 
rain and quite a few big rivers,   but some of their areas are prone to dry 
periods. When those occasional droughts occur,   the state needs to impose 
water rationing on its people.   It might not surprise you that the Malaysian 
people do not really take well to that. As a result, the water situation between the two 
countries can be best described as "complicated". Look up the word "frenemies" in the dictionary and 
you will find a picture of Singapore and Malaysia.   Both were born of the 
colonial British Malaya state,   but certain aspects of their history 
have led them to develop separately.   Nevertheless, they share close bonds 
beyond just their physical proximity. Singapore had been one of the 14 states 
that make up Malaysia from 1963 to 1965.   But it was then ejected from the 
federation due to trust issues   and ideological differences 
between the political leaders. When Singapore left the federation, people 
realized that the two countries will have to   remain closely tied together for many reasons. 
The water issue will be one of those continuing   linkages. Then-Malaysian Prime Minister Tunku 
Abdul Rahman, who made an appearance in my video   about Malaysia's game-changing New Economic 
Plan, is frequently quoted to have said: > "If Singapore’s foreign policy is 
prejudicial to Malaysia’s interests,   we could always bring pressure to bear on them 
by threatening to turn off the water in Johor" Over their history together, Singapore and 
Malaysia have struck four water agreements.   Back in 1927 when both states 
were governed by the British,   Singapore municipal leadership and 
the Government of the State of Johor   signed an agreement that allowed Singapore to 
rent land from Johor and use their water for free. A second agreement was signed in 1961 
that superseded the 1927 agreement.   The 1961 agreement gave Singapore full and 
exclusive rights to draw 86 million gallons   of raw water from certain areas in Johor. 
Singapore would in turn need to pay rent   for the land as well as pay for the water 
drawn (about 3 cents per thousand gallons).   Singapore also would sell treated 
water back to Johor at rate below cost. In 1962, another agreement was signed 
that allowed Singapore to draw up to   250 million gallons of water from the Johor River. Both the 1961 and 1962 agreements were honored 
even after the 1965 Separation between Singapore   and Malaysia. For a new country with so 
few natural resources, this was a big win.   But those agreements do have a provision to review 
and re-price the agreements in 25 years' time.   Malaysia did not exercise this 
right to do so when that time came. Finally, there is a 1990 agreement 
that allowed Singapore to build a   dam in Johor so to make it easier to 
get raw water out of the Johor river.   Singapore paid for the construction and 
maintenance of the dam. As a result they   can buy some raw water out of the reservoir in 
addition to what they get to have from the 1962. As of this writing, Singapore remains 
a country dependent on another country   for a significant portion of its drinking water.   This is a critical dependency, one similar 
faced by Hong Kong in its dealings with China. Now, it must be said that Malaysia has never 
actually cut off Singapore's water supply. This   is despite all the legal jockeying and political 
jawboning back and forth across the border.   With that being said, it does 
loom over bilateral relations. Starting in 1998, negotiations were held 
to extend the 1960s-era water agreements.   Such water talks were parts of a larger series of 
discussions, but soon emerged front and center in   debate. Throughout 2001 into 2002, Senior Minister 
Lee Kuan Yew and Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad   negotiated. They got close to the finishing 
line but things held up on the actual price. Malaysia wanted a price tied to what Hong 
Kong paid Guangdong. Singapore felt that   that price was too high. Hong Kong was paying back 
Guangdong for water infrastructure building costs.   Singapore was willing to pay more for raw water,   but not at what it deems to be an 
arbitrarily high cost. Furthermore,   such a cost was not all that far off from what 
can be had from desalination and recycling. Thus, talks ended and Singapore embarked on   a journey to be water-independent by 
the end of the 1962 Agreement in 2061. Several decades ago, Singapore and Hong Kong 
faced a similar situation of not being able to   depend on its own water supply to meet the needs 
of its public. A comprehensive policy was needed. Thus far, the Singaporean government has 
been able to manage the water supply and   demand situation very well, growing 
the former and reducing the latter. On the supply side, the Singaporean government 
sought to increase the share of water from   the three sources it can control: Local 
catchments, recycling and desalination. The first is expanding the amounts of local 
catchments, simply meaning that the government   is trying to make it easier to catch rainwater and 
funnel it away for storage in reservoirs. Some 65%   of Singapore's land has been engineered to place 
water in one of the country's 17 reservoirs. Hong Kong's last large reservoir 
was completed in the late 70s.   Singapore has added three in the 2000s 
alone, including the large Marina reservoir. The second is recycling water. I was bemused when 
my Singaporean friends told me about NEWater,   very aptly named. Basically it 
is putting used water through a   battery of processing steps like micro-filtration,   reverse osmosis and UV disinfection. Singapore 
had been researching this idea since the 1970s,   but it was not until the late 1990s that 
the technology became economically viable. NEWater is suitable for drinking but most of 
it goes to non-potable usage like industry   and semiconductor manufacturing. 
There are four NEWater plants   around the country. I hope to go to 
a visitor center on my next visit. The third source of course is desalination. 
Singapore has opened a number of desalination   plants over the years. Their fourth desalination 
plant, the Keppel Marina East Desalination Plant,   recently opened in late June 2020. When 
fully operational, the plant can meet   water demands for 200,000 households and 
7% of Singapore's total daily water demand. Last but mostly importantly is 
the proper pricing of demand.   The most effective policy has been to price 
water at an economically sustainable cost. In 1973, the Singaporean government 
raised domestic tariffs on water   and experienced as a result the 
first decline in demand since 1967.   Water costs have since been raised a few times 
and are considered a critical portion of the   government strategy. Significantly, in 1997 the 
cost of water was pegged to desalination costs.   Most recently, in 2017 water prices were 
increased 30% over the span of two years. For low and middle income households who 
might struggle to pay for these water costs,   U-Save rebates are provided as a targeted subsidy. 
Applicable to all utility costs, the vouchers   represent a more economically efficient solution 
than simply subsidizing water for everybody. The result is that even though Singapore's 
population has grown faster than Hong Kong's   and is richer, per capita water consumption has 
actually gone down from 165 liters a day in 2003   to 152 in 2012 and 141 today. Hong Kong's numbers 
include undrinkable seawater used for flushing,   but the freshwater use per capita 
has gone up from 113 liters a day   in 1993 to 125 in 2012 and 130 today. As I mentioned earlier, Malaysia 
is relatively water-rich,   with the total amount of surface water 
a percentage of demand from all sectors.   Even with substantial growth forecasts built 
in, resources are expected to meet demand. Malaysia's problem is more related to managing 
water contamination issues and maintaining supply   during drought periods. Climate change has 
made recent droughts longer and more severe,   leaving its population 
especially vulnerable to outages. As the economy develops and more 
of Malaysia's forests are cleared,   catchments vanish and reduce the amount 
of water flowing into reservoirs.   This weakens the country's ability to tap its 
stores when those droughts inevitably come. The contamination is also a serious 
concern, arguably bigger than the   droughts. Nearly all of Malaysia's rivers 
experience some form of water pollution,   with occasional blooms of something worse. In 
2017, over 1.8 million residents in Johor Bahru   experienced supply disruptions when the 
river found itself contaminated with ammonia. These issues in the Malaysian hinterland have 
significant consequences in Singapore’s future   even as it marches towards water independence. The Singapore government is getting closer to its   long-term goal of being water independent 
when the Malaysia water agreement expires.   Considering that almost every country in 
the world struggles in one form or another   with the issue of providing enough water to its 
citizens, this is a pretty impressive achievement. But for now, the country's 5 million people 
still rely to a significant extent on water   coming from across the border. Water contamination 
and drought can stress systems in both countries,   potentially sparking conflict 
and political squabble. A new raw water agreement after the 2061 expiry 
date seems unlikely, but there does remain   the possibility that Malaysia sells treated 
water directly to Singapore after the expiry   date. I will make a video and let you know what 
happens when that time comes in about 40 years.