I like rugby but I'm not a good player at it; 
there are some interesting consequences of the   rules I want to explore, and this is actually 
a famous piece of applied maths about a real   world sporting problem. And I'll explain some 
of the rules here just for clarity; uh you can   score points by putting the ball down over a line -
it's called a try - very like in American football   a touchdown. Point about this though is that once 
you've scored a try in rugby you then also get a   chance to get some bonus points with what they 
call a conversion where you kick over the posts. So full disclosure, in American football you put 
the ball down over the- as a touchdown, you   then get to take the kick from in front of 
the post. Is that right? I think that's right?  Never played American football but I'm 
reliably informed. In rugby you cannot do that;   you have to take the conversion kick somewhere in 
line with where you put the ball down. So if you   put the ball down right at the edge of the pitch, 
like close to the the touch line - which is quite   common because people are sort of bleeding you out 
there as you get tackled - you have to take a kick   really close to the touchline, but you can choose 
how far back to take it. That is our question: if   you have the choice, which you do every time you 
score a try, how far back should you take the kick?  If you are really close if you like then you can 
imagine the post being at a weird angle; but if you   go really far back - I mean technically I think you 
can go to the other end of the pitch but I don't   think it would be clever for a range of reasons. Even 
if you are a good kicker, unlike me.
- No we can't! (Brady: It's in!) (First time)
- The real issue is that maybe your 
advice would change. So let's get this one   thing out of the way; if you put the try down 
under the posts you have to take the kick in   line with that. And there isn't really a problem 
here, you just go back far enough that you can get   it over the bar; and there's no worry because the 
further back you go the narrower the angle looks   because you're further away. Obviously if you 
try and take it from the try line itself you're   going to struggle to clear the thing. But it's the 
first modeling thing I want to get out of the way,  is that let's just assume that under the post 
is not a problem, you take it close enough and   you're fine. If you put a try down to the side 
of the posts - and this is where I want to show   you on the diagram. So here's a picture of rugby 
pitch, I've got a nice 3D model, uh I think you   might recognise the software, this is GeoGebra.
So this point here is where it's called the   try, I need to take a kick somewhere 
in line with that. And if I move this point   the line moves up. We just talked about 
going under the posts, no big deal. So   if you're to the side of the post you 
can imagine taking the kick from over here, looks a bit difficult if I sort of zoom the view 
around - like it's a terrible angle. But if you take   the kick from really really far away it's arguable 
that maybe you've got a better angle but the range   starts to become an issue. And if you go really 
far away, like way down the other end of the pitch,   the goal is just a really long way away. And 
even if the range isn't a problem the angle   is narrowing because you're getting further away 
from it. So the question I have here is how do you   best get the angle of the posts to be maximized, 
because that's going to be what matters for your   accuracy of the kick. There are some other things,
like can you clear the crossbar? We've talked about   that a bit - if you're too close it's going to be 
tricky. Incidentally there is- there's a five metre   line on the rugby pitches here. And I think a good 
rule of thumb is that at the angle most people kick   at, about 30 degrees they say, as long as you're 
a distance the other side of that line you're   likely to be able to clear the crossbar so we 
can just dodge that part of the model.    (You're saying if you're closer than that it's almost too steep?)
- Yeah you're going to have to sort of   do a proper chip and actually that's really hard 
to give any power anyway, and it's just unnatural. I looked up apparently 30 degrees is roughly 
what a good kicker will kick at, and at about 26   metres per second goes a long way-
- (You mean 30 degrees up, not 30 degrees angle?)
- 30 degrees elevation   yeah. Everyone thinks that 45 degrees is the 
best but it turns out if you as a kicker, if you   kick and aim to do 45 degrees you lose a lot of 
power because it's not the way your your leg   moves. So this is the real model, look at the 
rugby players and they kick it about 30 degrees. And that also is going to solve a problem 
with range, is that if they do that and they're   professionals they can kick a long way, like maybe 
beyond 30 metres. Which means even if you went to   the halfway line there's still a chance that you 
could get it long enough if you could- I'm aware   that I should probably go and try this but uh I 
don't think I could do that. But that means the   modeling is really how do you get the best angle? 
And the extremes are - I know you like thinking   about extremes - if you're really close to the try 
line the angle is going to be really narrow, we saw   on there, and if you're really far away it's 
also going to be narrow. Somewhere in the middle is   an optimum, and that sounds like a task for maths.
So that's our job. The first thing to do is to draw   some diagrams, so I'm going to show on here a angle. 
Here is the angle, they call it the angle subtended;   um most people have never heard that word unless 
they remember some circle theorem from school, but   it's the angle that the posts make to your point 
here. And you see that actually the measurement   here, if I'm really close to the try location,
the angle's down to three degrees. That's a super   narrow angle, and if you're really far away 
it goes down to single digits as well but   somewhere in the middle I'm into double digits, 
10.11 degrees angle - that's looking like a best   place. But where is the best place? And does it 
change when you move your try location around?  Yes. And I don't think it's obvious. So I- if you 
interview rugby players about where they do it   I am sure that they are solving this problem every 
day without doing a hefty amount of maths. But if   you got down to it, and this is now big business 
in sport, getting those margins optimised; even   if there's a place that you should take it from 
and then you adjust for your range and the wind   distance and how tired you're feeling it would 
be good knowledge and I think we should solve   it. Let me draw a rugby pitch; those are- this is my 
idealised goal posts and let's say we're working   here and you score try there, this is the line 
that you are allowed to take a kick from. And just   to clarify, let's say you take the kick from here 
then this angle is what we're trying to maximise.   Call it theta, let's call it theta. Really close 
in, the angle is going to be tiny; really far away   the angle gets smaller as well - there must be 
some optimal thing, how do we find it? Now you   could do this the long way. I recommend it as 
an exercise for any interested parties, you'd   need some calculus because we're optimising, we're 
maximising something, and it gets super messy so   don't do it unless you're brave. There's a better 
way - and this is quite common in mathematics, is   that sometimes you just need to draw a better 
picture. There's a few things you should know,   this is the distance between the posts, actually 
I think it's 5.6 metres. If you change the rules   of rugby though we can still work with d. And the 
distance we score the try at I'm going to call x   and that's to the middle of the post. So it feels 
like a good place to measure where you score the   try. So that's our variable x, and what we're 
trying to decide is this distance here, let's   call it y.
- (How far should you pace back with the ball and take your kick.)
- Yeah so mathematically   we're trying to find a function uh of x - so y 
equals something to do with x - practically you   said exactly the same thing, which is how far
should you go back from where you put it down.   Any three points you put on paper, or anywhere 
else, you can draw a circle through, a unique circle   through three points. And there are three points 
we care about here, which is quite important: the   left post, the right post, and your kick position 
that you may or may not choose. Wherever you choose   there is a circle that goes through those three. 
There's a thing that people learn in schools about   circles, with a whole bunch of circle theorems. 
Circles have beautiful properties and one of   those properties is in play right here because 
this circle crosses the blue dotted line there, that's why I went through that, but it also crosses 
here. And if I draw the other angle from there we've got in the UK, a GCSE level circle 
theorem going on here, we've got a segment   um or rather a chord across a circle, the segments 
the other side of it, subtending an angle on the   edge of the circle. And the theorem says that angles 
subtended off the same chord are the same. Now this   is nothing to do with where you've kicked from, 
but it's showing us that if you chose to kick from   there you would get the same result. Which means 
whatever distance you choose there is another   place where you get the same angle. Maybe this 
is not a surprise; close in it's going to be   narrow, and really far away is going to be narrow. 
So you're seeing those pairings and the circle is   backing us up. But here's another observation: so 
if the circle is really big you can have a long   thin angle coming out here and the angle is going to 
be small; if the circle is small then the angle is   going to be bigger. What we want to do is minimise 
this circle, and you might begin to see from this   diagram how you could do that. It's easier to see 
if we make it move, so let me show you on on the   moving version here. Turn on the circle here - that's 
the same circle you can see that I drew and you   see that it's drawn both angles I've got. So let's 
make these angles even more separate, you can see   if the angle is really small the sort of pairing 
angle is further away. I mean I don't want to   drop the spoiler in here but maybe Brady you have an 
instinct about how to make that angle bigger? Like   what what would you want to be true about these 
two angles for that to be as big as possible? (Well I feel like it should be the point where 
they're on top of each other, where the circle)  (touches the line, yeah there.)
- Yeah bingo. I mean certainly if you look at the numbers we're at   nine degrees there, it's going down that way and it 
goes up back nine then it goes down again that way.  (There must be one angle that doesn't appear twice 
or that's the same angle to us?)
- And it's exactly   what you said about touching, uh technical maths 
word, tangent, that where that line is a tangent   to the circle is going to be where the top two 
versions of the angle coincide and we've got the   biggest possible outcome. And that means we've 
got a really simple geometry problem to solve, and that's it. So let's solve it. It's quite 
hard to actually draw this because it's not   obvious to me where the circle is that you said 
needs to just touch it, but it's got to be sort   of just touching here, so eyeballing it some- 
something like that? Sort of touching isn't it.  Yeah, it's close enough for Numberphile sketches. What- have I said this before on Numberphile? Maths is the   art of reasoning from dad drawings. So the angle 
here, the the point that we're after, is the angle   where there's the point where both of these 
angles have coincided. This has got to be just   touching which also means we get a- another circle 
theorem kicking in which mean that the radius   of the circle is at right angles to the tangent.
That's another circle theorem you learn age   16 roughly in the UK. And there's one other fact 
which is now true that wasn't true before which   is that that distance x is now the radius of 
the circle. Which means any other line from the   centre to the edge is also a radius and also x 
so in particular that line there is x. And if I   draw one extra line- we mentioned before this 
this centre of the post is really kind of the   centre of everything so if that's on here you 
realise that this is a right angle triangle.   And we know some things: we know this distance 
is d over 2 - in actual practice it's 2.8 metres. This distance here is y, it's the sort of parallel 
version here, and we know that part of the triangle   is now x. And that's crucial because we've got 
a right angle triangle, we know all three sides,   Pythagoras is waiting for us. I'm just going to 
write down Pythagoras' theorem on this triangle,   we've got x squared equals y squared plus d over 
2 squared. And we kind of want it the other way  around, we want y in terms of x so that you put 
the try down, you know x, how far do you go with   y? You get y equals - I'm doing it in one step 
and the viewers may be horrified, I'm going to   take the this one over and square root everything. So 
it's the square root of x squared minus d over 2   squared. That is the formula which every rugby 
player when they score a try does not use.    (Just to be clear here; so the distance I walk back to 
take my kick is where I scored the try from)  (the centre line squared, minus half the width 
of the goals squared, all square rooted?) 
- Yeah   I think that's quite tough to do in 
your head, even if you memorise the width of the   goals. And and I am really keen to point out 
before anyone's like just knocks me down for   being stupid, nobody would ever really want to do 
that calculation. So the art of modeling things   is to get some sort of rule of thumb which is 
maybe a good way to get that calculation done   approximately. And I think approximately is all 
we're after here. The reason they don't use it,   and this is something which I haven't heard talked 
about lots although I'm sure people have noticed   it, is that there's a much quicker way to get very 
close to that answer. The art of modeling things   is to get some sort of rule of thumb which is 
maybe a good way to get that calculation done   approximately and I think approximately is all 
we're after here because there's going to be wind   and I'm going to be tired and kicking a ball;
everything's going to change, the spin of the   ball in the air, all sorts of things are going 
to change it but we've got a starting point.   But let's have a quick look at what it looks like 
if I plot it. So on my diagram here I've got 'show   locus of best spot' by which I mean as I move 
the try location around, the best spot location -   which I'm going to turn on as well - so the best 
spot you can see actually- let's just move around   so you can see. Your earlier instincts were 
pretty good. That's our kick spot, the blue one   is marking the best spot. So- and you can see the 
red circle is the one that we sketched just now,   it's the tangent circle. But if I show you how that 
point moves as you drag the try location around; unsurprisingly it's getting close to the 
goal as you get close, but then something   funky happens there that's hard to tell. So 
let's just trace this point which is this,   the yellow line is the locus of the best points. 
It is not a straight line, it has a funky curve here.   In fact this is a hyperbola, it's a rectangular hyperbola-
- (It looks straight from here.)
- It is   kind of straight, if I spin this round 
or maybe view from the top, you can see   if I zoom out that it has this this curve 
as you get close. But then it does look like   it's pretty straight, and there's a reason for 
that, because the hyperbola has an asymptote.   You probably recognise a hyperbola and I'm 
sure you don't need me to point out, but let's   point it out anyway, the graph of one over x 
looks like this. In fact there's another one   down here. It's that sort of shape we're after, 
it has asymptotes going on here. In fact the   one we're looking at is a little bit more 
like it's um heading off in that direction as if that's the centre of the of the posts.  But the- the point is the hyperbola has 
an asymptote and it is a straight line   as you go in the long distance. And here's the 
catch, if you look back at the formula, if x is   big here then as you increase x this d just never 
increases and so you could maybe arrange for x to   be super big it would just dominate this thing - 
and basically it's irrelevant. If you cover that   up you've got y equals the square root of x 
squared - otherwise known as y equals x - which   is a 45 degree line. Which means if I go back 
to my diagram and sketch the 45 degree line it's pretty much that line. In fact if I show 
the rule of thumb which is me just plotting a   45 degree line on here, this red line running 
down here is pretty much exactly the same. In   fact it's overlapping for most of the pitch, 
the only place where it doesn't overlap and   the curve kicks in is really close to the goal 
and my advice is you're too close to the goal   anyway at that point. So here's the rule of thumb, 
and I don't actually know if rugby players are   thinking this, but 45 degrees from the centre 
of the goal posts. Which means pacing, which   is what you said earlier, is dead simple. If you 
paced out 10 paces where you put the try down,   pace out 10 paces. There's a few catches though.
Because modeling is- this is assuming uh all   sorts of things like that you can kick it far 
enough - and I think if you start to get into the   realms of like asking me to kick it, then maybe 
my actual range would start to mean that   if even if that's the best angle it'd be much 
better for me to be closer because I'm rubbish.  What's the wind doing? And there's a big 
kicker which we haven't pulled down, I'm not   going to do it, but we're in a 3-dimensional 
world and we've been doing it as if we're just   looking down flat and actually the angle we want 
to measure to the posts is not flat on the ground,  it's up a bit.
- (Because the crossbar?)
- Because the crossbar. You've got to clear the crossbar as well.   And I think that would change the analysis. I think 
it does- doesn't change the outcome very much but   this is what modeling does,  you start to include 
the complexities; life gets a lot harder and you   maybe only make a tiny incremental gain in advice. 
And I think at this point the inaccuracy is out on   a pitch when you're tired and the wind's blowing 
means that 45 degree rule of thumb is a pretty   good way forward and uh that's what I'm going 
to do every time I play badly rugby from now on. Why not brush up on all things angle 
related with this trigonometry   course from Brilliant? I feel like 
I shouldn't admit this, but I can't   really remember how sine and cosine and tan 
work; never mind, Brilliant has me covered.   And their courses are so interactive, you can see 
what I mean here, love this stuff. Brilliant's just   bursting with courses, lessons and questions to get 
your brain buzzing, and they're adding more stuff   all the time. They cover all manner of complexity 
and ability; whatever you want you're gonna find   it. And if you're already using it, why not give 
Brilliant as a gift to that learner in your life?  There's a 20% discount when you sign up with our 
URL, brilliant.org/Numberphile - that's down in the   description - and they also have a 30-day trial so 
you can give it a test run, see what you think. I've   met numerous people who work at Brilliant 
and they're all so passionate about these creations, about making people smarter; and I also 
appreciate them sponsoring this Numberphile video. ...so as I just discussed, that this should be more 
than twice this. And so now we can compute the the   cross ratio for these four points, and for these 
four points, and I should get the same answer.   So that's as quick as it can happen, so say now 
there's a red card we could research a fact   about that red card, say it might be the player's 
eighth red card, only two players have got more...