This is the Union Pacific Railroad’s 
Austin Subdivision in central Texas.   It’s a busy corridor that moves both freight 
and passengers north and south between Austin   and San Antonio… But it’s mostly freight. 
Trains run twenty-four-seven here, carrying   goods like rock from nearby quarries, cement, 
vehicles, intermodal freight, and more. So,   when Crystal Clear Special Utility District was 
planning a new water transmission main that would   connect a booster pumping station to a new water 
tower to meet the growing demand along I-35,   the biggest question was this: how do you get 
the line across the tracks without shutting   them down and trenching across? It’s only about 
250 feet or 76 meters from one side to the other,   but this small part of a large water transmission 
project takes more planning, coordination,   engineering, and innovative construction than 
the rest of the project combined. Maybe you’ve   never even wondered what it takes to move 
fresh water across the distances from where   it’s stored to where it’s used. But, I really 
think you’re going to find this fascinating. Crystal Clear and their general contractor, 
ACP, invited me on-site to see it happen in   real-time and document the process for you!  Most of the water lines are already installed,  but getting this one across these tracks 
is going to be a different challenge. I’m   your host, Grady Hillhouse, and 
this is a Practical Construction. There are actually a lot of ways to install 
underground utilities without disrupting   things at the surface, collectively known as 
trenchless technologies. This project is using a   method called horizontal earth boring, but really, 
it’s pretty exciting. Before any dirt gets bored,   there’s a lot that has to happen first. So 
much can go wrong if an operation like this   isn’t carried out thoughtfully and carefully. 
One of those risks is hitting something that’s   already buried at the site, and just about 
every subsurface utility contractor can tell   horror stories about what happens if a water, 
sewer, gas, fiber optic, or telephone line is   severed during construction. The right-of-way 
along a railroad track is a common place to   install linear utilities, because they 
can just run parallel to the tracks,   avoiding the complexity of dealing with multiple 
property owners and obstacles. The owners of all   the utilities that run along these tracks have 
already been out to mark their location using   spray paint on the ground and flags. But, 
that’s not enough to make sure they are   avoided. Before the drill can get started, a 
vacuum excavation crew comes to the site to   confirm their location not just along the 
ground, but how far each one is below it. This truck has an enormous vacuum that sucks 
up soil as it’s blasted loose by a pressure   washer. The benefit of a vacuum excavator is 
that, although the water is strong enough to   dislodge and excavate soil, it’s not strong 
enough to damage the utility lines below.   Compare that to using a hydraulic excavator 
with a bucket where one wrong move could rip   a pipe or cable out like a wet noodle. It also 
disturbs a lot less of the area at the surface,   so this process is often called potholing. 
It’s a crucial step if the margins are tight   when avoiding existing utilities, like 
they are on this site. For each utility,   the vacuum excavator locates the exact 
position and depth of the line so that it   can be marked by a surveyor and compared 
to the proposed alignment of the bore. And   there’s hardly any mess once the process 
is done. On this site, there are lines   both above and below the proposed bore, so the 
drilling contractor will be threading a needle. Safety is also critical, especially when 
working around railroads and trains. Since   this job requires people on the tracks and 
construction below them, there’s a specialized   crew on site who coordinates between the Union 
Pacific dispatchers, train engineers, and crews   on site to make sure no one gets hurt. They’ve 
established a specific zone along the tracks,   which requires the train engineers to check in 
with them first before any train gets near the   work. When a train is on the way, the safety 
crew sounds a horn, and everyone on site stops   working and gets clear of the tracks. Once 
the train is past, work starts right back up. The process of horizontal earth boring, also 
known as jack-and-bore, starts with an entrance   pit. Unlike some trenchless methods that can 
curve down and back up again from the surface,   this waterline needs to be as straight and 
precise as possible. So you have to start   underground. This enormous excavation is 
where almost all the work will happen. And,   because it’s so close both to a 
roadway and the railroad tracks,   there’s no room to slope the sides to avoid 
the risk of a collapse. Instead, huge steel   trench boxes are installed in the pit to shore 
it up and keep it from collapsing or affecting   the adjacent structures. Once the trench boxes 
are installed, the boring machine can be lowered   into place. And before long, it’s up and running, 
or I guess you could say it’s down and running. In practice, horizontal earth boring is relatively 
straightforward. The boring machine really only   has two jobs: excavating the soil and advancing 
the casing pipe. For the first job, it uses a   string of augers that connect to a boring head. 
It’s just an oversized drill bit. As the auger   turns, the boring head breaks up the soil ahead of 
the casing pipe, and the flights draw the cuttings   back toward the pit. The cutting head has wings 
that open when rotated in one direction. Those   wings extend just slightly beyond the edges of 
the casing pipe, over-excavating the bore hole   to minimize the friction of pushing the casing 
pipe forward. The soil cuttings from the boring   are discharged from the side of the machine into 
a pile in the pit. Every so often, they have to   be removed. The excavator at the surface uses a 
clamshell bucket to scoop the cuttings out of the   pit and stockpile them nearby. They’ll eventually 
be disposed of off-site or used as backfill. The machine’s second job is to advance the 
casing pipe into the bore. This pipe provides   support to the hole to keep it from collapsing 
and prevent the overlying soil from shifting or   settling over time. The boring machine sits on 
tracks. The back of the machine uses a hydraulic   ram attached to a locking system that affixes 
to the rails. The ram provides thrust, pushing   both the machine and the casing pipe forward 
with the tremendous force required to advance   it through the ground. Newton’s third law is in 
play here. To provide that thrust to the casing,   the machine needs something to react against. 
So, those tracks have been firmly concreted   into the bottom of the entrance pit to make sure 
it’s the machine that moves and not the tracks. Of course, every contractor knows as soon as you 
start making good progress, it’s going to rain.   Water flows downhill, and this pit is the lowest 
spot of ground on site. But the crew doesn’t let   it slow them down too much. The concrete bottom 
in the pit helps keep things from turning into   a muddy mess, and an electric pump makes pretty 
quick work of the water that gets in. Tarps over   the top of the pit also help keep it dry, if also 
making it a little tough to film the work inside. Railroad operators are rightly strict about 
the what, where, when, and why when it comes   to construction on their rights-of-way. Disrupting 
the movement of freight and passengers is simply   not an option. So an essential part of this 
operation is continuous monitoring to make   sure the boring is not affecting the tracks 
above. A surveying crew comes to the site   every six hours to carefully measure for any 
changes in elevation along the tracks. They’ve   installed these reflective markers and use 
a piece of equipment called a total station   that can precisely pinpoint each length of the 
rail. They process the data as it comes in and   compare it to the baseline measurements. 
If they notice any settling or movement,   everything would have to stop (but, 
spoiler alert, they never did). Another requirement from the railroad is 
that this work happens nonstop. They don’t   want an open excavation sitting idle below 
the tracks, so they require that the boring   happen continuously night and day. The longer it 
takes to get this casing pipe to the other side,   the more opportunity for something to go wrong. 
The boring contractor works in double shifts. When   one crew leaves, there’s already another one to 
take their place, so the site is never unattended. Once one segment of casing pipe is pushed 
as far as it can go, the boring machine is   pulled to the back of the pit. A new segment 
of pipe is collected from the stack. And,   it’s lowered in. The next length of the auger 
is already inside. The auger is attached to   the string. And then the casing segment 
is welded to the end of the previous one. Segments go in faster at first, but each one takes 
a little bit longer than the last. That’s because,   every two or three segments, they have to 
check and make sure the bore is following   the right path. There are utilities to avoid, 
dimensional tolerances from the railroad,   and location requirements from the engineer and 
property easements. So, having the alignment   wander is not an option. Every so often, the 
crew has to remove the entire auger string from   the bore to make sure it’s headed in the right 
direction. The way they do it might unnerve you,   especially if you’re claustrophobic: they just 
send a worker on a skateboard to the end of the   casing pipe. There are more sophisticated tools, 
but some contractors prefer the old-school,   reliable method, and they have a slew of 
safety measures in place as required by OSHA,   including ventilation, communication, 
and safety spotters. The person inside   the pipe uses a rule to check for any 
deviations in grade from the precision   laser installed in the bore pit. But, what 
happens if the bore gets off alignment? Horizontal earth boring is not a very “steerable” 
operation, but there is some opportunity to make   corrections if they’re needed. Take a look 
back at the first length of the casing pipe.   Notice the shoes cut from each quadrant of 
the pipe. If the bore starts to deviate,   a hydraulic jack can be used to bend one 
or more of the shoes outward and deflect   the operation back into alignment. You’re not 
going to turn a corner this way, but it gives   some control over alignment and grade. It’s 
why it’s so critical that the first length   of casing pipe be installed perfectly; all the 
rest of the casing will follow right behind it. The operation runs night and day. The machine 
bores and pushes each length of casing pipe.   Soil is removed from the bore and then the 
pit. Alignment is checked. The auger string   is re-inserted. A new length of casing is 
welded on. Rinse and repeat. All the while,   trains are running constantly back and forth 
along this busy corridor. When the drilling   crew starts getting toward the end of the line, an 
excavator arrives to dig the receiving pit. And,   after just about a week of boring 24/7, the 
cutter breaks through on the other side.    Even the guys who do this every day gathered around 
to watch it happen. It’s a perfect sight,   especially for the fact that they broke 
through in the exact spot they were aiming for. Only a few days later, it was time to push 
the water pipe through. The casing’s job is   just to hold the bore open, but the water will 
run in rated plastic pressure pipe. These pipes   connect using a bell-and-spigot design; they 
literally push together. A fiberglass rod is   hammered into a groove around the inside of the 
spigot to lock each segment together. Spacers   are installed to hold the line up off the casing 
to keep it from rubbing during installation or   being damaged over time. Just like the boring, the 
pipes are lowered into the entrance pit, attached,   and pushed through to the other side (although, 
this operation goes quite a bit faster). In some   projects, the annular space between the casing 
and pipe is grouted in, but in this job they opted   to keep the space open. It was a ton of work and 
coordination to get this line under the railroad,   so if it ever breaks or leaks, Crystal Clear 
will be able to pull it out and repair or   replace it. This line will be tied into the pipes 
already installed on either side of the bore,   leak-tested, and backfilled, but the hard part 
is over. It won’t be long before it’s pressurized   and put into service, moving fresh water to 
this quickly growing area in central Texas,   quietly and invisibly meeting a crucial need. And 
not a single train was delayed while it went in. One of the coolest parts of the project was the 
surveying involved. From the initial layout of the   bore to the track monitoring surveys that happened 
every six hours, there were so many surveyors   involved in just this one part of the project. 
I’ve said it before that surveying is such a cool   engineering-adjacent career, especially if you 
don’t like sitting behind a desk. But there’s a   barrier to entry that I think scares a lot of 
people away from it, and that’s trigonometry.   But trig really isn’t that scary, especially if 
you approach it like today’s sponsor, Brilliant. Brilliant’s been sponsoring Practical 
Engineering videos for six years now.   It’s the longest partnership I’ve had. And I 
think the biggest reason for that is people   watching this channel just keep finding value 
in learning new things in this interactive way.   That and they keep adding new lessons every 
month. I took a look at their trigonometry   section for this video, and ended up finishing the 
entire thing, just from the joy of brushing up. We learn best not by reading 
or hearing but by doing,   and that’s why I love Brilliant. The lessons 
just stick better when you’re actually using   the information while you learn. You can 
try this completely free for 30 days and   see if it’s something that can help you get 
ahead in your career, get better at a hobby,   or just enjoy the process of learning 
something new. The first 200 to sign   up will get 20% off a premium subscription. 
Go to brilliant.org/PracticalEngineering or   just click the link in the description 
below. I really like their website and   their app and I think you will too. Thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think. Huge thanks to Crystal Clear 
Special Utility District,  ACP,  and their subcontractors 
for having me on their site.