- Today we are going to build
the ultimate AMD gaming PC. So get your popcorn ready,
this is going to be a big one. Now, this video is not sponsored by AMD. However, AMD, CORSAIR, and Gigabyte were very kind in providing
us all the components to build what is quite literally
the ultimate AMD gaming PC. 'Cause it's not one PC,
it's two PC's in one case. Powering the main PC is
AMD's Threadripper 3970X with a whopping 32 Ryzen cores onboard. Now if that wasn't enough, we also have a 16 core Ryzen
9 3950X for the second PC. And because we are trying to build the ultimate AMD gaming PC, each system is going to
get its own Radeon 5700 XT, which is going to be water-cooled. And who knows? We might just be able to upgrade
somethings down the line. What are we gonna call this thing? What should we call the back system? I keep calling it the second
PC, but it's all in one tower. - [Ken] Big Dipper, Little Dipper. - All right, this is for Little Dipper. So this is the CORSAIR 1000D and it's a big boy. So the way this case is designed, our main Threadripper Big Dipper system is going to go right here, and our ITX system is
going to sit right here. So essentially, what we'll do is we'll have our GPU right here and then we'll have a
second GPU right here. So that we'll actually have
that sort of RGB water block. Thankfully, CORSAIR
have a configurator tool which should theoretically
make my life a lot easier. So this is the CORSAIR
Custom Cooling Configurator So lets design our loop. Oh, wow, look at that. So it immediately built us the set-up. The problem is is it doesn't
have our second motherboard. "Expect quiet operation,
even during heavy-duty tasks "and the ability to push your
CPU and GPU to their limits." So essentially, between all of this, we'll have some way of
connecting all of our fans, getting all of the RGB
to talk to each other, and essentially, it will all
be running off of Big Dipper. Yeah, we've got a lot of work ahead of us. So we have made some progress. So with our TRX40 motherboard, we have not only our
Threadripper 3970X installed, we also have two of our SSD's installed, all 64 gigs of RAM,
including our fake modules to make sure that we have
the seamless RGB experience. So as you can see, our
table is not big enough for all the things. (laughs) Welcome back to day two, where things are progressing nicely. So we have the first of our
5700 XT water blocks installed. We also have our X570 board
getting a little bit closer. We're going to have one
loop for Little Dipper. So it'll basically go through here, it'll go through the graphics card, through the CPU, and then up,
and it'll be taking advantage of one of the front
480 millimeter radiators. And then for Big Dipper, which
is our Threadripper system, we'll be using the other
pump and reservoir, and that will be running again
through GPU, through CPU. And then that will run actually through the 360-millimeter
radiator and the 480. So we're giving the maximum
amount of cooling to Big Dipper since obviously, that is the
more power-hungry system. So we do have all of our
water blocks installed. And in fact, you can
actually see on our TRX board things are actually looking pretty good. But the main things that
are really holding us back is that we're missing all of the hardware that came with the case and our ITX board doesn't
actually quite fit. So I think we're going to do
is we're going to come back and try to remove as much
as this plastic as possible, just so we have a little
bit of extra clearance to slide it in. The good thing is that's not
really going to be noticeable. So even if we have to do
it in a slightly hacky way, the system should still be completely fine because we're gonna have
all of the tubing coming out as well as our GPU to cover up any questionable decisions we make. Welcome back, my friends, to day three of the ultimate build. So at this point, we've made some pretty
decent progress today. So I've spent most of the
afternoon working on this, which is our massive dual 480-millimeter
radiator for the system. So I think it just lines up like here? I'm just gonna do it by feel. Okay, so, roughly that's what our dual 480-millimeter
radiators are gonna look like with the fans all lined up. Meanwhile, we've made a
little bit of progress with the rest of the build. So everything is mostly
in position right now. So we have our Big Dipper motherboard. We have our 5700 XT connected here. We have two of our Elgato
4K60 capture cards. - So, I'm actually going to
use the pump on the left, the pump and reservoir on the left, to run it to Little Dipper down here. So, theory, we should have a nice, clean, arching run like this. For Big Dipper, a almost parallel run going into the 5700 XT up top as well. So it is day, something,
something, something, of this PC build.
(Austin laughing) We've waited for some parts to come. It's been probably two weeks
since we've touched this thing. And now I think we have everything in to get our water cooling done. - [Austin] Do you have an idea of where you're gonna use the
45 and 90-degree adapters? - [Ken] I've already placed
a lot of them in here. - [Austin] Oh, okay, they're
already here. Okay, I see. - [Ken] Yeah, if you remember
what we did last time? - Dude, that was like three
months ago, I don't remember. Okay, so, after further review, we've determined that we are idiots and we've forgotten
one very key component, which is the fact that when it comes to mounting our top radiator it is the wrong size. - I don't wanna do any other fittings until we have everything in here properly. - So my friend Ken is trying to say is that we'll be right back after this word from our sponsor, YouTube AdSense. - So it is a new day, and with that, maybe some more progress. Hopefully.
- Maybe? It will be more progress. - Maybe.
- So we went from a single 360 mill
radiator to push-pull 480. Which means that this is
gonna be even more ridiculous once we get it up here and
get the entire set up ready. Dude, this thing is gonna be a monster. - And again, thank you to CORSAIR and AMD for getting this all situated. I know this wasn't an easy
thing to assemble in terms of parts list and whatnot.
- Well, yeah, 'cause every time we make
some progress on the build we're like, "Hey, by the
way, what about this thing?" They're like, "Yes, of course," and they send us another package. And then we ask for more things and they send another package. (laughs) - Because we're gonna be doing push and pull on the top
rad, our biggest problem with putting the second
pump above the first one is not only clearance for the tubes, but clearance for the pump as a whole. You gotta imagine that the top rad is gonna be essentially
pretty much up to here. So what we're gonna do is we're just gonna put
the second pump here. This might be the first day I have regretted working for Austin Evans. - [Austin] This is the first day? Out of everything, this is the first? - I will speak the truth,
today is the first day. As you can see, Little
Dipper is all plugged in. We have it going from our pump to our block on the GPU
to our block on the CPU. It is running out the
back, as you saw earlier, into our back radiator over here, and then the radiator spits it out back into the pump and the reservoir. And then I think now, well,
what I'm gonna do now and next, is I'm gonna run the test run. - [Austin] For Big Dipper. - [Ken] For Big Dipper, exactly. - I have spent almost all day with this. It is a monstrosity. So I'm starting to label my cables based on whether it's Big Dipper or whether it's Little Dipper. But essentially, we have all
the fan headers, all the RGB. Something just fell,
probably not important. All the RGB. We have temperature sensors. All of it needs to be run
through these Commander PROs which are very tightly wrapped right now 'cause I need to re-cable them. And we also have all these
RGB hubs which then go in. So basically, each fan has
a fan header and RGB hub. Then all our water blocks also have RGB. That's actually all, but there's a lot of fans
and a lot of hubs here. It has been many arduous days of building. However, we have finally
hit a very key milestone in the ultimate AMD project. Why is that on? - [Ken] It's the LG Velvet. - Are you watching another
one of your virtual YouTubers? Anyway, now that we've
made a very key milestone in the ultimate AMD gaming PC build, we are ready to fill
our loop with coolant. So we have pressure tested
the first Little Dipper. Wait, no we pressure tested Big Dipper. And now, we've been pressure-testing Little Dipper for a while, and the pressure has
not changed whatsoever. So does that mean that we're immediately
going to have a leak and it's going to spray
all over the computer? Probably, but at least it can hold air. So it holds air, it's
gotta hold liquid, right? Wait, are we really? Wait, wait, wait. Hold on, hold on. We're gonna fill this
whole loop up squirting it one little bit at a time?
- Oh, that scared me. Oh, that's really scared me. - [Austin] Ooh! - [Ken] But we're good. Look at that. - That actually looks really rad. Ha! Get it? Radiator joke? It looks rad. So at this point, we've already
pressure tested both loops. They held up, no problem. And theoretically, Little
Dipper should be easier because it's actually less of a loop since it's only going through
one of our front radiators. Now, the only thing makes
me a little nervous... I'm just gonna bring the light with me. Just bear with me for a second. Look, this is intimidating. This is not the mark of
an expert PC builder. However, all of these are going
to be unplugged and rerouted shortly, once I can
actually get into Windows and figure out which
hubs are on which ports and that's gonna be a lot. You know, we've been
shooting this video so long that you now have a ponytail. - I do have a ponytail. - [Austin] Do you realize that's how long we've been shooting this video? - To be fair, to be fair. This is lazy Ken when he had
to run out of the house today. - [Austin] I'm glad you're much
better at pouring than I am. - [Ken] Look, I'm gonna get a little- - [Austin] Okay, Okay.
Calm down, calm down. Okay, you know what? That's fine. That's fine. That's enough. Yeah! - [Ken] Keep going. - Woo!
- It's going. - [Austin] Yeah! Is that enough? Oh, almost. Almost. - [Ken] Oh, let's go. Oh.
- Wait, do I have to kill it? - No, no.
- Oh, it's just enough! It's just enough! - [Ken] Oh, we got it,
we got it, we got it. Let's keep going, let's keep going. - [Austin] Dude, this looks so good! That should be pretty good for now. It's gonna take a little bit
for those bubbles to work out. - [Ken] I just wanna get
everything out of this bottle. - It has been a long arduous road, but we are finally ready with the ultimate AMD gaming PC build. And by finally ready I mean,
well, it's up and running. We got a little bit of clean up to do. But we have 32 cores of Threadripper, two 5700 XTs, a 16 core Ryzen processor, 64 gigs of RAM, plus 32 gigs. A double custom water loop. Which, okay, look, yes, a
little bit messy right now. We're gonna clean that up. But we finally have everything running. There's so much lighting. Honestly, what we've had the most trouble is just sorting out all of the software and the wiring and everything
to get it all to show up. So if we come over to
our 4K capture utility, this is actually the
feed from Little Dipper. So in fact, I can actually
move the mouse over, if I can find it, and what you'll see is that essentially we can
get the exact same feed from Little Dipper into Big Dipper. So you can see right now, I am inside. There may be a touch of latency. But now I could be streaming, recording, whatever the case is, off of our 4K60. So basically, we're going Little Dipper into 4K60 into Big Dipper. I'm incredibly excited. I am very, very happy to
be done with this build. It has been literal months
to get this to this point. But for now, all we really need
to do is tidy up the cables, which to be fair is gonna
be a little bit of a job, and move everything over
and get it all set up. But beyond that, we have finally completed the
ultimate AMD gaming PC build. So thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe to the channel to see the conclusion to this finale. Did I just say the
conclusion to the finale? The conclusion to the trilogy of building the ultimate next-gen set-up. You won't wanna miss the last episode. I'm really excited to see when it all actually comes together.