It is December 31, 2019. A spokesperson 
at Taiwan's Centers for Disease Control   was browsing a popular 
Taiwanese website called PTT.   He came across a post showing a WeChat 
screenshot from a doctor in Wuhan. In the WeChat thread, the Chinese doctor 
mentioned a strange new virus. The post   would give Taiwanese officials early warning of 
the unfolding events in our strange new world. Most Taiwanese use Facebook, Instagram,   and Twitter like all the rest of us. But PTT 
is a unique part of Taiwan’s Internet culture.   I had no idea it existed before coming here but if 
you sneak a peek on people’s phones while riding   the MRT you will often see its distinctive 
code-like font and text only interface. In this video I am going to talk about 
PTT, how it works, its problems and more. PTT is a bulletin board system ("BBS") 
hosted and administered in Taiwan. It   was founded in September 1995 by National Taiwan 
University student Tu Yi-Chin in his dorm room. The name PTT is said to be a reference to Tu 
himself. He called himself Panda Tu because he   stayed up so late at night. So Panda Tu or 
PT was the original idea for the BBS name.   But since PT seemed a bit short, 
he decided to add another T.   It later got a backronym, 
“Professional Technology Temple”. Now, a BBS is kind of like a precursor to the 
modern browser-based internet. Instead of using a   browser, you would access a BBS back then through 
a terminal over a phone line connection. Once you   log into the server you can read articles, post 
comments, and exchange messages with other users. Once you are in, you can browse 
through many different "boards".   The most popular is called "Gossiping", 
but there are boards for stock analysis,   the NBA, politics, e-shopping and more. 
Someone submits a thread title, some   commentary and a few links. PTT users can then 
post comments underneath. So yes, like Reddit. In the rest of the world, BBS are largely 
relegated to hobby trinkets for nostalgia   value. But in Taiwan PTT is widespread, 
used by youths and elders alike. Today, PTT has over 20,000 boards, 1.5 million 
users, and up to 150,000 concurrent connections   at peak hours. The software is open sourced and 
run on the National Taiwan University network. At the time of its founding, PTT 
was just one of several hundred   other BBS sites in Taiwan, 
including the official NTU BBS   "Coconut Trees". It was easy to set up. All 
you needed was a PC running Linux software. Most BBS sites in those years had university 
students as their founders and "managing   staff" (mods). When those founders 
graduated and moved on to the real world,   those BBS servers lost their users and closed 
down. PTT was different in that their managing   staff came from the computer science department, 
and were able to establish a tradition of   "passing on" their managing staff rights 
to a new generation of university students. And because the majority of the managing 
staff were actual computer programmers   at the best university in Taiwan, they were 
able to make modifications and improvements   to the software infrastructure 
that other BBS could not. It looks quaint and old-fashioned, but the 
PTT software itself is quite sophisticated   beneath the surface. It no longer connects 
through phone lines but instead uses a more   modern network protocol called 
Telnet. It is also quite robust,   able to support tens of thousands of users. 
As any programmer knows, that’s hard to do. Early on, PTT's computer science department 
users entered into a rivalry against Zoo - the   BBS used by the neighboring NTU Department of 
Electrical Engineering. At the start, Zoo had   the advantage of 250 MB more RAM, befitting for 
a department focused on hardware. But PTT's staff   was unable to accept that hardware was better 
than software and so strove to write better code. This friendly university competition helped 
advance PTT's feature functions and capabilities.   It was the first BBS to achieve a thousand 
concurrent users, and soon hosted more. By the   mid-2000s, it had established itself as the BBS 
of choice for Taiwan's internet-connected youth. Kind of like Facebook, PTT grew out of Taiwan's 
preeminent university and first spread through   its young elites. They continued to 
browse PTT long after they graduated.   But unlike with Facebook, its founder never 
centralized or corporatized their product. Reddit internet history is riddled with infamous 
events that users can remember off the top of   their head. For instance, there was the time 
Redditors thought they found the Boston Bombers.   And there was the time when 75% of 
Reddit "went dark", whatever that means. PTT has had their own notable "big 
events", times when everyone logged   onto the server to follow or track 
some huge event in Taiwanese history. Five of the top ten are baseball events,   when the Taiwanese baseball team was 
competing in the World Baseball Classic. But the top two events in PTT history - meaning 
the most people ever on one board - were because   of Taiwanese political events. The first took 
place during the 2018 magistrate and mayoral   elections, where over 100,000 people logged on 
to Gossiping to follow the results of the Taipei   mayoral election. The second is the historical 
2014 Sunflower movement, when students invaded   and occupied the Executive Yuan. A hundred 
thousand went to the Gossiping board then too. How to best describe PTT culture? 
Hm. I think the best metaphor is to   draw a connection to Reddit culture. 
Redditors (with a few exceptions) are   often described as having very left-wing 
opinions that differ from the mainstream. PTT people can be described as being similar. 
They express opinions that are critical of   the mainstream media and the current ruling 
government, regardless of who is in charge.   The Chinese is extremely difficult and brand 
new phrases are constantly being thrown out,   challenging Google Translate’s ability to keep up. But for the most part, it 
is about saying shocking,   anti-mainstream things to get the most "internet 
points" - especially in the largest PTT board,   Gossiping. It is not rational nor 
logical. More like a market square   of people shouting crazy things at one 
another. Sounds like the Internet to me. PTT threads regularly headline the 
mainstream media and government   organizations often review it from day to day 
for any breaking events. For many netizens,   it is the first source that they go to when 
it comes to new happenings in the world.   And as the anecdote at the start of this video 
indicates, that can have very real benefits. But also because of this, like as 
with all social media networks, PTT   struggles with misinformation. Because 
most PTT users are largely anonymous,   it can be easy to churn the waters with 
fake news and FUD. The Wikipedia cites a   number of these incidents in their article 
about PTT. Go check that out some time. Some of this information comes from 
within Taiwan itself. For instance,   public relations firms for political parties (from 
all sides, mind you) commenting and spreading fake   news about a candidate during an election year. My 
favorite is about Tsai Ing-wen's PhD at the London   School of Economics, which did not start on PTT 
but was posted and went viral there. To this day,   I still get comments from people telling me about 
a conspiracy to hide the "truth" of that one. And then there is the more nefarious stuff. 
Stuff coming from outside the country,   where third actors come in and try 
to undermine confidence in society   with false news at critical times. Think 
Russia and the American 2016 elections. One incident occurred in 2018 when a PTT message 
circulated about Honduran officials visiting   Beijing, spreading fear about the country severing 
diplomatic ties to Taiwan. The post was traced   to an IP address in Beijing. The Firewall might 
occasionally mysteriously unblock PTT at critical   times, unleashing a deluge of “patriotic” users 
bringing in fresh new perspectives so to speak. These incidents lead to huge flame wars on 
the big PTT boards. The flame wars then make   the news, and further spread the FUD amongst the 
populace. FUD by the way means fear, uncertainty,   and doubt - if you were wondering. You can see how 
this kind of stuff can quickly get out of hand. In response to a particularly bad spate of 
misinformation incidents, PTT closed registrations   to new users for some time. People can only browse 
threads. Without an account, they cannot comment.   PTT reopened registrations 
after the elections were over. Misinformation is not only a technical problem.   It is also a social problem stemming from a 
populace unprepared for the internet age and   lacking of trust in their government. "Fixing 
it", if such a thing is at all possible,   requires not only coordinated efforts from both 
government and business, but also increased   personal responsibility on all of our parts to 
do our informational due diligence as citizens. For more on this I recommend reading 
the work and statements of Audrey Tang,   the current Taiwanese minister. I do not use PTT myself but I know a lot of 
people who do. When you ask Taiwanese about it,   they might sheepishly say that they read it 
from time to time but do not write in it.   I do enjoy the memes that get 
shared to me at times though. I am fascinated by this tiny bit 
of Taiwanese internet culture   and hope it continues to persist over time. 
One of the things that the rise of Google,   Facebook and Twitter have done in this world 
is to essentially pave over small niches like   these. For all of its drawbacks and 
issues, PTT is a pretty cool thing. Go check it out some day. Download 
the app if you can read Chinese.   The one you see here is my preference. If not, 
access it on the web. You can try to use Google   Translate to wrangle its wild Chinese wordplay. 
Likely won't work but worth a shot. Try anyway   and dive head first into this unique 
bit of Taiwanese internet culture.