- A monstrous 2000 Watt power supply for this price? I mean, to be clear,
$160 is a lot of money, but compared to a 2000 Watt power supply from a reputable brand like SilverStone, it not only costs a lot less, this is $550, but it weighs a lot less. Not to mention, who the heck is Senlifang? What the heck is 95 plus gold? And why is there a Bitcoin logo on it? To find out if this can actually meet its rated specifications, yes, my friend's 2000 Watts, we are gonna be risking, not
one, not two, but $6,000 worth of the fastest gaming
hardware money can buy. Are we gonna ruin something today? - No, we're gonna tell you what a sponsor. - Crucial, with Crucial MX500 SSD you can enjoy speedy system startups and lightning fast file loading plus with their dynamic
light acceleration, even the most demanding
applications open faster than ever. Get yours today using the link down below. (bright upbeat music) Everything about this
product screams sketchy from the obviously fake
certification label to the spelling errors
all over the warnings. I mean, a "warnungs"
as I should call them. And of course, "Do not
error move this cover, "train death, service people only." "A cushion." To the fact that these supposed
2000 Watts of total output is achieved by adding together 1600 Watts, 150 Watts,
six Watts and 10 Watts which by my rough math
comes to 1,766 Watts, not 2000. Obviously the weight is
not the be all and end all of a product's quality, but for power supplies
it can be an indicator because both quality
components and cooling do add weight to the final product. And compared to our real
2000 Watt power supply which comes in at 2.6 kilograms, our selling Senlifang comes in at 1.6. There is a whopping kilo
less electronics in this, than that. - I just wanna come in here. I think this power supply is fine. - Yep. - I think it's good. - You think it's fine? - I think it's fine. - And here's why? Senlifang only supports
that level of output at 240 volt inputs. And compared to building a power supply that's designed to take a
full range of input voltages, this is a lot less complicated. I do wanna say that this
warning is very valid. "Hazardous voltages contained
within this power supply "is not user serviceable, "return to the service center for repair," but we believe it is safe to open these because neither of them has
been plugged into the wall in literally a year. We forgot about this video. It's been sitting on the
shelf the whole time. - [David] You have life insurance, right? - Yes actually, I have a
wonderful life insurance policy. - [Kyle] Please don't die though. - I'll try not to. I mean, arguably today I'm not doing a great job of that, but. - Oh, this is fine. - Yeah, see if Alex says it's fine. - Officially, never do this. - Oh my God. I've never cared, that like a company used
a cheap label before but really, really. Ah, come on. - What are you doing? - Ah, okay, wow. That was on there really tight. DC brushless fan madel. - Whoops, this is a
really cool power supply. There's a lot of stuff in here. - Well, there's sure a lot
more stuff than I have. - There's so many transformers. They've got one two, three, four, five don't touch this. - [David] Which ones they
got, Jazz, Bumblebee? - I have a madel FD 13525 B12M which according to my Google search, is just completely not a thing. And you are rocking a globe fan RL 4Z 140 millimeter fan. - Yep.
- It has 1700 RPM. Huh, neat, it has actual specs. How nice for you? Why don't you talk us through what we're looking at here, Alex. - I'm gonna take a couple guesses why our Chinese power
supply is so much cheaper. So first of all, 120 volts just sucks for the same amount of
watts that you're outputting you just need so much more amperage. And then all of your components after you beef here and stuff, you also need a whole big power factor correction circuit to go along with that it only is to switch
up way more, big pain. This doesn't have to deal with any of that but there isn't very much in there. - There really isn't. Kyle, what are the main
differences we're looking at here? - Can see there's a lot
more chunky boys over here. - Okay, wait, don't you
can't call them chunky boys. - Probably transformers or inductors of some kind but something that's
got like lots of copper, lots of magnets and wrapped up and looks like it's got
some potty material in it. This has one transformer
and two inductors. But you can see there's
a ton more components that are a lot heavier, which is where your weights coming in. Plus there's this entire modular interface which you plug into in the SilverStone. So that's probably where
your weight differential is coming from. Obviously, as Alex mentioned, this can take both North American power. So like 110 and European and the rest of the world, 240. - Don't forget Japan, they are bros. - Oh, they do 110 as well? - Yeah, they do. - Oh, okay.
- [David] I'm sorry, Japan. - So, because you have
both circuits in here, obviously you're gonna
have way more circuitry and without getting into
too much of the details, this doesn't have to
worry about any of that. So there's less stuff. - Tell me something.
- Yes. - Have you heard of this
capacitor brand, Nippon? - That's a very good Japanese brand. - Okay, have you heard of Poicom? - No, but just because
I haven't heard of it doesn't mean it's bad, but
definitely good, unknown. Do you see an EMI filter on
the AC input on that one? - Oh. - You know what I'm saying? - Yeah, that might not be a
problem for your power supply but it could problem for other devices. - Oh no, there it is there, there it is. Nevermind, I was wrong. - Okay, so we're good. - I mean, I wouldn't go that far. Let's put it that way. - Here's the summary, more capacitors, these are for the AC side, these are for the DC
side, mean less V droop and in general, a higher quality unit. Our quality unit also
has more transformers, some of which comes down
to it being designed to take both 120 and 240 volt input. But some of which comes
down to just transformers being made of metal and magnets,
both of which cost money, money that Senlifang didn't wanna spend. - I just discovered something
that's kind of interesting. - Oh, tell me. - After looking up that transformer, I found another review of a
similar looking power supply. It's only a 150 Watts but that doesn't really matter. But it seems very likely
this is made by Great Wall, which is...
- Really? - Kind of good. - Wow, the layout is
really close, isn't it? - Yeah, this has beefier
bits in some spots like these are larger caps, but for the most part, it looks a lot like this Great Wall made power
supply from 10 years ago. - With that said, just because it looks like
a Great Wall power supply doesn't mean it wasn't cloned from a Great Wall power supply. - True, yeah. - Now we're looking for a MOV. Can you explain what a MOV is? - A MOV is basically a resistor
that changes its resistance based on the voltage going to it. So like, if you were
to have a voltage spike it would basically act, no, it would basically act as
a short, dump it to ground. So it'll level off the spike. So you don't want voltage that spikes, spiking is very bad, right. So like it's just a style
of voltage protection or like circuit protection. There's other ways to do it. - But it would have to
probably be pretty close to the input power (indistinct). - Usually it's a through hole
looking like disky thingy. You can probably show
it on the SilverStone. Mm yeah, this one says TVR. I think that's what- - What about this boy? - That could be it 5D- - Dash 15. - Dash 15, able. - Yeah, and I think it's either DS. - Oh I got it, NTC MOV. Yeah, it is a MOV.
- Okay. - Is it? - Hey, I found a thing. - Yeah, you found a thing. - This thing might not be
a total piece of crap then here's another one. NTC 2. - Yeah, I mean- - I'm going by the label
on the (indistinct). - Yeah, it's also actually touching the... that looks like an inductor. So it could be. - Oh, temperature. - It could be, yeah. - Based on the temperature
of the inductor. - So yeah, and. Oh, obviously we're missing
out on creature comforts like the modular interface but that shouldn't affect
the performance of it. This thing may very well not totally suck. - Maybe, it's probably fine. - I'm almost disappointed. I mean, there's still plenty of time for it to blow up though. Which is a perfect time to
show you guys the system that will be using to stress test it. We've got a 12,900 KS that's
modded with a copper IHS that'll pull anywhere between
350 to 400 Watts at load. We've got an RTX 3090 Ti. This guy gets up in the
neighborhood of 450 Watts. And we have our shunt-modded RTX 3090 that is capable of pulling
up to seven, 800 Watts depending on the load. That it means altogether we
could reach darn near 2000 Watts with all of these guys going full blow. Raising a pretty big question. What kind of outlet could
we possibly power this with? - One for the rotor? - No, no, I know, I'm asking
a hypothetical question. That'll be a spot for the cut. - With one of these. - Now, before we start
adapting this to this, we wanna make it very clear
that you are never to do this because it can cause
all kinds of confusion. When at one end of a power cable you've got something designed for 240 volt and at the other end something designed to have 120
volt devices plugged into it. It's bad. - Also never modify your
extension cables or work on these if you're not qualified or just do anything that we've
done in this video so far. Though said, here's how to do it. First step, we're going to put on a large yellow flag to indicate that this
is the spicy power cord. Next, this end needs to go. - It's good, 240 volt. - Do you have a JerryRigEverything knife? - You need a cut up. - It's fine here back. - No, I'm doing it. Next we're just gonna strip
this back a little bit so we can get access to the real wires. I've done this a couple of times before, but we've never filmed
it 'cause just don't. You should probably use
wire strippers for this but I don't know where
our proper size one went. So we're just doing this. - Total side note here, but Zach from
JerryRigEverything had no idea how bad our knife situation was before he sent over some of his... This is literally our knife
drawer, opened the shop. Now we just need to look
up which wire goes where into our new connector. The green one is almost certainly ground but for the other two, there's
gonna be a hot and a neutral. And we're 90% sure that our white which is usually hot in Canada is gonna go to Y, and our black one is
gonna go to X for extreme. 'Cause black is like the
color of performance. That's why, right? I mean, W-H-Y, why, that's why
'cause black is performance and X for extreme, extreme performance. - What? - I love bothering them it's so much fun. You can get Kyle over here, it's great. - This is why we don't film videos just talk smack the whole day. - Our meetings are great. I love talking about how
he's been employed here for over a year and still
hasn't shipped a product. - I've almost been here two years and you know why I
haven't shipped a project? Is you change it every single time I'm ready to freaking ship it, mate. - Before he was hired, I almost
had the screwdriver done. Do you know why it's not here yet? - Yeah, the next thing we're gonna do is this black piece is keyed
to only go on one way and we just screw this bad boy in here. Right, right, right, just a
little something like that. Okay, and hey, where
did that back piece go that holds this snug? Hey look at that. Oh wow, that's gonna
really clamp down on that. I mean, that's good. The last thing you wanna
do is rip the cable out of the plug, this poor thing. Almost, all right. I mean, it's definitely
not coming out of there. Okay, ready? - It won't fit in that plug. - Yeah, yeah, no we're gonna use this one. (yelling) - That's really bright now. - Oh yeah. There's a little light in here that's supposed to indicate
if it has power or not. And it's like super bright. That's great. Where'd our power supply go? We should wear eye protection
when we plug this thing in. David's way back there using the Zoom. Okay, David, come on. Go ahead and plug it in. - Oh okay, that's a... - This is not the best
cable I've ever seen. Look at this end of it. We should get a new cable. Okay, ready? - [Kyle] Yeah, I told you it was fine. - Okay.
- Let's look it up at the PC. - Hey stop. (Kyle laughing) This 24 pin is so wimpy. - You guys didn't unplug it before you started to plug in, right? - Yeah, just unplug it. - What's up, I trust it. - Yeah. - Whoa hey, motherboard RGBs lit. - [Kyle] Ah for like five
seconds while the caps die. - Is there only 1 x 8-pin EPS? I mean, I guess if it's a
like mining power supply it's pretty focused on powering GPUs. Now the 39 ETIs turn a fan because the single 16-pin
connector that it uses takes three of these higher powered 8-pin traditional PCIE connectors. We're not actually gonna
connect the second 3090 for now. Are you ready? - That's loud. - The fan really goes, wow. We don't even need to look
up the specs of this fan. Under RPM, it would just say burrr. This has been surprisingly
uneventful so far, but then we are also only pulling probably like 50, 60 Watts right now. 373 Watts. - 373 Watts is not bad. - And it has not blown up even a little. - Oh 415 on the GPU. - At 3090 Ti though, hey. - Absolute beast. Let's just talk about worst
case of what can happen. Everything does, now
I've seen stuff before where people are like, oh no,
the power supply shut down. When I use my 3090, that's fantastic. If your power supply
shuts down, that's good. The power- - That's means over current
protection is A, present and B, worked. - I've seen some people be like, oh this 500 Watt power supply
will run a 3080, no problem. It's like, no, it shouldn't. - That's bad.
- Yeah. - That's not a good thing
to be putting on Reddit. - I think it's time to add another GPU. - Yeah, for those of you that didn't watch our shunt mod video, this GPU has a resistor
on top of the resistors that measure how much power it's drawing. That means that the
GPU thinks it's drawing like 300 Watts or whatever
when it's actually drawing 600 that lets you over clock it a bunch. And in this situation allows
us to destroy power supply or something. - Alex, we've got a bit of a problem. These cables aren't especially long. The thing is that copper is expensive and cables are made of copper. So a lot of the time cheap
power supplies will cheap out by running shorter cables. It also helps power supply manufacturers hit higher efficiency certifications because there's less loss
from the long cables. Although these guys don't have any kind of
real certification anyway so that clearly wasn't a factor. I can't believe that
across two GPUs, just two we're gonna have a total of six 8-pin PCIE power connectors here. Okay, are we good? - So loud.
- It's really loud. - Feel the air like from here. - Oh wow, that's true, you really can. PCIE has a device that has been detected into blah, blah, blah. Oh shoot, okay. There's only so many PCIE
lanes on the Z690 platform and it looks like our
dual GPU configuration is interfering with the M.2 slot that we have our SSD in. Conveniently, this
motherboard has one of these DIMM.2 things from Asus. So we're just gonna use that. Oh, our 3090 is not showing up. Wait, oh, oh wait, what? Driver verify. You know what I think it is in order to populate that slot, let's go manually change
it to PCIE M1 and PCIE2. - Okay.
- That didn't help. - Hmm.
- They're both there. - Yeah, it was something
else getting this to work. Holy crap. So Anthony also lost an hour yesterday because he put a 3090 in a board after the 3090 Ti. Turns out the hardware variables for literally every other
Nvidia GPU do not exist in the 3090 Ti drivers. So in order to get that fixed, we need to disable driver verification, change the INF file. And Dan did a write up on everything that you
need to do right here. - That's so stupid. Come on Nvidia, are you guys new? Let's make these things burn. We'll make them pay for
what they did to us. Mostly you and Anthony and Dan. - Yeah, Dan's comment was, "I can't believe they shipped this." - Show me some furmark. Wait, does it hit both? No, GPU-2 is not doing anything. I just want my payoff
for this video, darn it. The people need to know new idea. We disable the 3090 Ti. Boo, see you later, buddy. Now we run furmark. You are running on the 3090, thank you. We are now drawing 760 Watts. Okay, now device manager, enable. Yeah, the 3090 is only
drawing like 400 now. Oh, a little more. 500. Huh, I'll settle for 500. Okay, now what will you run on? - Nothing. - You will crash. Please, I just want to hurt my GPU. I'm hitting both, 460 on the 3090 Ti of just shy of 500 on the
3090 plus the 300 on the CPU. What's that work out to? - Closing it on 1300 Watts. - 1300 Watts. It's definitely toasty. It's really toasty. - Is it?
- You wanna feel the exhaust? - Oh yeah.
- Like, yeah. It's a goer. Oh wow. The back of the board right here is hot. You touched that spot? - Oh yeah.
- Yeah. So what is on the other side of that? Here, what are we looking at? - It's either a high voltage transformer or a high voltage MOSFETs. Probably the high voltage MOSFETs. - Well, it's not the sort
of thing I'd recommend buying for your gaming rig. It's loud and the chassis gets
frighteningly hot under load but it's a lot better than
I thought it would be. - Yeah, it's alive. - I figured 170 bucks for a
2000 Watts powers of live, it would just immediately blow up. But it didn't, and it
really is delivering 1300 probably more. We've got a lot of fans running up probably closer to the
1400, 1500 Watts right now. - Yeah. - Gigi, the label fell off at some point. I don't even remember what
they're called anymore. And Gigi, our sponsor. - Vessi, Vessi footwear is
known for being lightweight easy to pack, comfortable and most importantly, waterproof. Designed to keep you moving, Vessi release their
new everyday move shoes with enhanced breathability
and added support. This style is perfect for the adventurous or those looking for something sportier featuring a pull tab to take them off and put them on with ease, vegans suede lace cages,
extra midsole cushioning and the same waterproof
Dyma-tex technology that you love from Vessi, you'll wanna wear these
puppies everywhere. The dual climate and material keeps your feet warm during the winter and cool during the summer. Stay dry and get your Vessi shoes today at Vessi.com/LinusTechTips and get $25 off using the code
LinusTechTips at Checkout. - If you guys enjoyed this
video, you might also enjoy Alex and I cooling a PC with
a gasoline-powered pump. It was pretty stupid, but...
- Very stupid. - Fun though, right?
- Oh yeah.