It was a device that virtually nobody believed in. The scanning electron microscope 
or SEM is famous for its amazing,   three-dimensional photographs. It is hard 
to imagine a world without such a machine. Not only for eliciting the curiosities 
of children and nerds like me,   but also for diagnosing semiconductor issues. Despite its usefulness, we wouldn't have the 
commercial SEM today as we know it without   the quiet, persistent efforts of a single man. In this video, we cover the long and difficult 
birth of the scanning electron microscope. ## Beginnings Charles Oatley was born in 1904 to the 
owner of a bakery and schoolteacher. His father did not have much in terms 
of an education, but passed on a love   for science and technology. One of 
Charles' early toys was a microscope. Oatley grew up to be a formal and 
soft-spoken man - a consummate English   gentleman. He graduated from Cambridge 
and worked in industry, building radios. This got him into radar 
development during World War II. After the War, Oatley was appointed a 
lecturer at the Cambridge University   Engineering Department. His goal 
there was to help upscale the   university's research effort in the new 
and bustling world of applied physics. He tried to find projects for his 
students to do - speculative projects   that trained them and exercised their 
creativity but can still be useful. In his view, such university projects can 
be different from those in industry. PhD   students cost less. The stakes of 
failure are far lower, because the   student is judged on the excellence of 
their work rather than the end result. So you can research more wild and wooly 
things, knowing that the end goal isn't   necessarily a commercial product. This search 
eventually took him to the electron microscope. ## The Electron Microscope In 1926, a German physicist named Hans Walter 
Hugo Busch showed that you can use magnetic   and electric fields to guide the electrons 
of an electron beam in a certain direction. These principles enabled the 
possibility of a "lens" that can   act on beams of electrons like how 
optical lens act on visible light. Electron wavelengths are almost five 
orders of magnitude smaller than that   of optical light. In theory, an 
electron-based microscope could   produce resolutions far superior 
to that of optical microscopes. Inspired by Busch's discovery, a team of two 
men in Berlin set out to build such a machine. In 1931, Max Knoll and Ernst 
Ruska - built the first   conventional transmission electron microscope. The word “transmission” is in the name because 
the machine sends a beam of electrons through an   ultra-thin slice of the specimen. After that, 
we focus the beam and turn it into an image. Unfortunately at the time, it was difficult 
to slice the specimens thin enough in order   to get a good image. This lasted until 1940 
when Hans Mahl introduced "replicas" - a   method of using plastic and metals to 
prepare a specimen for TEM imaging. ## Another Microscope Knoll and Ruska knew that a second 
type of electron microscope was   possible - one that would work more 
like a traditional optical microscope. After his work on the 
Transmission Electron Microscope,   Knoll joined the Telefunken company 
to build TV camera tubes. In 1935,   he built an electron device based on this second 
idea in order to study a component of his tubes. He put the sample into one end of a glass tube, 
with an electron gun on the other side. The   electron beam is scanned across the sample. 
Electrons reflected back or emitted from the   sample are collected, amplified, and then used to 
create a magnified image of the sample surface. Knoll called his device "der Elektronen Abtaster",   which means "electron scanner" in German. 
Sounds cooler in German, if you ask me. Knoll's machine could magnify about 10x 
but not much more due to the width of its   electron beam probe. Interestingly, he did not 
use electron optics to try shrinking that width. He certainly must have considered it. Maybe 
he passed because the current setup already   met his needs and sufficiently sensitive 
electron detectors were not available. Ruska later won the Nobel Prize for Physics in 
1986 for his work in electron optics. I reckon   Knoll would have won part of that Nobel 
as well had he not passed away in 1969. ## Von Ardenne Meet the German scientist 
Manfred baron von Ardenne. He was born into a wealthy family, which let 
him run his own lab. Brilliant and self-taught,   he received his first patent at the age of 15. In 1931, he demonstrated the first fully 
electronic television system. It used   cathode-ray tubes to produce 
images. Which is pretty cool. In 1936 Siemens contracted Ardenne to design 
and build a new electron microscope to avoid   an issue in existing TEMs. In an electron 
stream, not all electrons are made equal.   Some have more energies than others, 
causing them to react differently   as they accelerate and pass through the 
lens - creating aberrations in the image. So Ardenne built a microscope that 
scanned an electron beam across the   sample line by line. Today we call 
this a Scanning Transmission Electron   Microscope. "Scanning" because of how 
the machine scans across line by line.   "Transmission" because the electron 
beam still goes through the sample. Ardenne only spent two years on 
this. His machine was sophisticated,   but also limited. The beam was not 
powerful enough and Ardenne did   not have sufficiently sensitive electron 
sensors - resorting to photographic film. So it took 20 minutes to record an image. And 
since you can't see if the image needed focusing   until after developing the film, you had to sort 
of wing that part. No images were ever published. A brilliant and creative mind, Ardenne 
probably would have been able to build   something had there been time. He had all 
the essential principles down- including   a correct theoretical model of the 
sample’s interaction with the beam. When an electron beam hits the sample, two 
things happen. First, primary electrons from   the beam are back-scattered - as in they bounce 
back off the surface like ping pong balls. And then there is the secondary 
reaction. This is where atoms in   the sample get energized by the primary beam 
and start emitting electrons of their own. Ardenne knew this and so he was on the 
right path. But then World War II broke out,   and Ardenne abandoned the project to work on a 
cyclotron for the German atomic bomb project. His electron microscope was destroyed during an 
air raid in Berlin in 1944. Later, Oatley calls   him the "true father of the scanning microscope". 
The ideas were right. But the times failed him. After the war, Ardenne worked for the Soviet 
atomic bomb program. Then he settled in East   Germany and founded a research institute. 
He passed away in 1997 at the age of 90   with 600 patents to his name. A life 
of discovery and invention, well lived. ## RCA There is one last scanning electron 
microscope project that we should mention. The American radio company 
RCA did work on a scanning   electron microscope of their own for a few years. The project was initiated and 
led by the famed inventor of   the television camera tube - Vladimir Zworykin. The project started as something to 
build a new type of microscope. But   then in 1940 the aforementioned Hans 
Mahl introduced his replica method.   Now suddenly the Transmission Electron 
Microscope became a formidable competitor,   and the RCA team had to adjust 
their system to accommodate. They focused on building a machine 
that can work on samples that we   can't cut into thin pieces. In 
it, a tube generates an electron   beam that hits the sample. Electrons then 
reflect off or are emitted by the sample. Those electrons are accelerated back up 
through another set of electron lenses and an   electron multiplier tube to intensify the image 
before hitting a detector screen for imaging. This SEM did not image smaller features 
than existing TEMs. At the same time,   the downsides were substantial. It was 
expensive. It took 10 minutes to make   an image. And noise often clouded the 
images. RCA rightly decided to move on   and focus on their transmission 
electron microscope products. There was little more work done 
on scanning electron microscopes   for several years, when Charles Oatley came along. ## A Hunch
Oatley first came onto the scanning microscope idea through a pre-existing 
interest in electron optics. Soon after he started, he asked one of his 
PhD students - K. F. Sander - to try building   a TEM for their project. Sander started on 
it before abandoning it for something else. Sander's work was not revived because soon after 
that, Oatley's colleague Vernon Cosslett began   some work in TEMs and the gentlemanly Oatley 
did not want to step on his colleague's toes. But Oatley did feel that a scanning 
electron microscope might be a good   alternative. The previous body of 
work done at RCA had shown that its   scientific principles were fundamentally sound. There also seemed a pathway towards solving the 
RCA SEM's long recording time and noise issues.   The two problems were related. The longer it took 
to record the image, the more noise there was. Oatley reasoned that if they can somehow collect 
more of the electrons coming back from the sample,   then you can both cut the recording time and 
improve the noise. You might even be able   to put the imaged result on a cathode 
ray tube screen for more convenience. And how can you collect more electrons? Well, 
if you recall with the original RCA SEM,   electrons from the sample are run through 
lens and accelerators before hitting the   multiplier and then the detector. We lose 
some of them by doing this. So what if we   just send them right into the multiplier instead? There were also possible improvements 
using technologies developed during the   war. Most notably, an electron multiplier 
that Oatley felt might be better than   RCA's. It was built by his colleague 
at Cavendish Laboratory A.S. Baxter. This was all hunch. And no clear-thinking 
manager at a company would authorize a R&D   project on such thinking. But like as I said, a 
PhD project was different. The stakes were lower. So Oatley assigned Dennis McMullan, a student 
uniquely suited for the task - with analog,   tube and radar experience from during 
the war. The project received a small   grant and had a bunch of valves, tubes, 
and other components at their disposal. People had low expectations. If RCA and its 
brilliant minds failed to get this work,   how can a random Cambridge student with a 
thousand pounds and some tubes do better? ## Cambridge Over the time he spent on this 
project from 1948 to 1953,   McMullan produced a working 
proof of concept machine. He took over the uncompleted TEM left behind by 
Sander and added a power supply, electron lens,   and cathode ray display unit he built 
with his own hands. This machine had   a more powerful electron probe, as well as a tilt. In an attempt to get better 
contrast on the SEM's images,   McMullan tried tilting the sample at a 
far higher angle relative to the beam   than before tried - 25 to 30 degrees 
as compared to the previous 2 degrees. What you got were the beautiful three-dimensional 
images that scanning electron microscopes are so   famous for. The tilt also helped get more 
electrons into the electron multiplier,   enough to put some images on a cathode 
ray-tube display for a few seconds. The results were promising enough 
that Oatley continued the project   after McMullan left the lab in 1953 
- handing it over to Ken Smith. Smith contributed several improvements to 
the machine. The most important of which   was to collect the low-energy electrons emitted 
from the sample as part of secondary reactions. As I mentioned, Ardenne had pointed this 
out before. But when McMullan was building   his machine, he did not collect those 
secondary electrons because he thought   they would hurt the image quality. As it turns 
out, collecting those secondary electrons - as   well as emitted light and X-rays from the sample 
- boosted image quality by a factor of fifty. ## Commercialization Oatley's subsequent graduate students 
like OC Wells, Garry Stewart,   and Thomas Everhart locked down the design and 
improved components for collecting backscattered   and secondary electrons. By 1960, Oatley and 
his team had largely completed the machine. Oatley oversaw their efforts, checking 
in frequently with questions, discussion,   and suggestions to move the 
research forward. Together,   they developed techniques for using the 
device. Some of the science made with the   device was published in scientific 
journals, though not all of them. Some academics from Canada's Pulp and 
Paper Research Institute saw the device   in action and asked for their own. 
It wasn't being sold commercially,   so the Cambridge team custom built 
one and shipped it to Canada. Since 1955, Oatley had tried to 
convince a company to produce   the device for customers. But at the start, 
people questioned its commercial viability. The Scanning Electron Microscope offered far 
less resolution than its sibling the Transmission   Electron Microscope - hundreds of angstroms 
rather than the latter's 10 or 20 angstroms. On the other hand, the SEM did 
not require the long and tedious   preparation of replicas. This not 
only made it more convenient to use,   but also suited items like fibers - often 
susceptible to burning whilst being prepared. Furthermore, SEM images have that 
fantastic and distinctive depth of   field. Can't dispute that these 
SEM images just look amazing. Nevertheless, experts initially assessed the 
world market for the SEM device to be just   15 units. This disinterest lasted until 
Oatley approached the managing director   of the Cambridge Instrument Company with his idea. ## Cambridge Instruments The Cambridge Instrument Company 
itself has a fascinating history. The company was founded in 1881 as a 
partnership between a wealthy student   Albert George Dew-Smith and Horace Darwin - 
the youngest surviving son of Charles Darwin. Yes, that Charles Darwin. The guy forever remembered for collecting 
the first fossils of a 9 foot long capybara. And some other stuff about evolution or whatever. Anyway, Horace Darwin was a competent 
mechanical engineer, and the company he   co-founded produced equipment for 
physiological labs. For example,   a breathing mechanism that pumped chloroform 
into an animal while it was being operated on. Later Darwin took sole control over 
the instruments part of the business,   and continued producing instruments like 
thermometers, galvanometers, and thermographs   over the years. It became publicly traded, 
and continued on doing what it was doing. By the late 1950s, the company had gotten to be 
in need of a little fresh blood. So they hired   Harold Pritchard, an Oxford mathematician, to 
reboot R&D and get some new products out there. ## The Stereoscan When meeting Oatley, Pritchard had actually 
been interested in a different product. That was the Microscan, which today we call the 
electron microprobe. It fires an electron beam   at a sample in such a way that causes them 
to emit X-rays, which the instrument reads. The Microscan sold well - it did something 
no other instrument can do. And that finally   convinced Cambridge to take a chance 
on Oatley's scanning microscope idea. In 1962 Du Pont's Canada team saw 
a prototype of what was called the   Stereoscan SEM at the Institute 
of Physics and Physical Society   Exhibition. And having used the SEM 
previously built for the Canadian Pulp   and Paper Institute - they put in a solid 
order for the first production machine. The SEM had many parts in common with 
the electron microprobe so in theory it   should have been relatively easy. But an 
issue came up that when someone tried to   observe at a resolution of about 50 nanometers, 
extremely small vibrations ruined the image. This first machine was delayed for literally 
years in order to deal with this problem,   which annoyed Du Pont. Finally, Cambridge 
shipped its development machine over to   them - dropping it down from a forklift 
onto a concrete sidewalk in New York. The UK government then chipped in. 
They offered to fund the purchase of   Cambridge's first few machines by 
British universities. So in 1965,   Cambridge managed to build five 
commercial machines - which sold well. That was the turning point. A publicity campaign 
hauled in orders for twenty more machines and   that was that. By 1971, 520 Stereoscans had 
been shipped to customers. We have a hit. ## Semiconductors
The scanning electron microscope has influenced virtually every part of the 
science and technology worlds. But the semiconductor industry 
has especially benefitted from   its bounty of gifts. The fact that you 
did not have to prepare replicas for   samples made it far more convenient than 
the transmission electron microscope. Oatley realized this early on, and assigned 
one of his students Garry Stewart to add an   ion beam to the SEM for additional measurements. 
Though filters had to be added to remove oxygen   ions from the beam - they were causing oxides 
to form on the surfaces of the etched chips. This convenience as well as the microscope's high 
contrast images made it easy for technicians to   look at malfunctioning chips to see if 
they might have a broken connection,   an invasive particle on it or some other flaw. As integrated circuits have 
gotten denser over the years,   this has pushed the SEM industry 
to keep up. This includes the use   of digitization and software to improve 
imagery and shrinking the resolution. ## Carl Zeiss I want to thank an anonymous friend of the channel 
who works at Carl Zeiss for suggesting this topic. Unfortunately, Cambridge's historic role in 
the development of the SEM did not save it,   financially. Persistently high 
R&D and manufacturing costs as   well as a few bad acquisitions 
later cost Pritchard his job. As it turned out, SEM-like devices had 
been invented intermittently in Japan,   France, and the Soviet Union. The British 
firm Metropolitan-Vickers/Associated   Electrical Industries even sold one SEM-ish 
unit back in 1959 but it failed to work well. But when Cambridge demonstrated the 
instrument's commercial viability,   others rushed in. Fierce competition ensued 
particularly from the Japanese - the first   Japanese SEM came just six months 
after the Stereoscan's debut. In 1968, Cambridge faced a hostile takeover 
from another firm - forcing them to sell   themselves to George Kent Limited, 
another British instruments maker. A few years later in 1974, George Kent was itself 
acquired by the Swiss electronics company Brown   Boveri. In doing so, Cambridge was spun 
off once more as an independent company. Some time after that, Cambridge becomes part 
of the famed German company - Carl Zeiss. ## Conclusion Charles Oatley retired from Cambridge in 1971, 
but continued to spend his retired life on   the development of his microscope. 
Three years later, he was knighted. In 1982, he published an iconic, highly 
cited paper on his work - humbly titled   as always "The early history of the 
scanning electron microscope". It was   a critical source for this 
video, and I recommend it. Oatley spent the rest of his life tending to 
his garden, passing away at the age of 92. His   students remember him as a quiet, humble 
man who paved the way for his students. And many of his students indeed went 
on to great things. For instance,   Ian Ross was a transistor pioneer, and 
went on to be the president of Bell Labs. Thomas Everhart became the fifth president 
of the California Institute of Technology. And Alec Broers is an e-beam pioneer, and became   Cambridge's vice-chancellor 
- which delighted Oatley. Carl Zeiss Microscopy continues to honor the 
legacy of Oatley and his team at Cambridge   Engineering, with various pages explaining his 
story. A quiet man, who made a deep impact on   his students and through persistence opened up 
an entire new world for all of us. What a legacy.