On July 20th 2023, India - the world's largest   rice exporter - banned exports 
of most non-basmati white rice. The government's stated reason for 
the ban was to preserve domestic   rice prices after a bad crop due to uneven rains. The ban will cut at least half of 
India's rice exports. It has led   to some panic-buying of rice and toilet 
paper in Canada and the United States. Just kidding about the toilet 
paper. But then again, who knows. It is hard to overstate just how important 
rice is to the Asian food supply. It is the   staple food for 2 billion people. Rice provides 
about 21% of humanity's caloric requirements. It is for those reasons that global rice 
markets are so vulnerable to disruptions.   One such disruption took place 15 years ago and I 
think it's worth looking back at. For this video,   we are going to look at the 
Asian rice crisis of 2008. ## Beginnings One of the most important events in post-War 
Asian history was the Green Revolution. After the end of World War II, policymakers 
feared a famine in Asia. The population   was aggressively rising and farmers 
were struggling to grow enough rice. Then in 1966, the International Rice 
Research Institute or IRRI released the   first modern variety of rice. IR8 - the 
"Miracle Rice" that changed the world. IR8 is a hybrid of a tall,   high-yield rice strain from Indonesia and 
a sturdy dwarf rice strain from Taiwan. The result was a semi-dwarf rice with a 
then-unheard of improvement in yield. Where before   the best yielding rice gave you about 6 tons of 
rice per hectare, IR8 produced 9.5 to 10.5 tons. Incredible. Tropical farmers 
in India, Pakistan, Vietnam,   and other Asian countries rapidly 
adopted IR8. Sadly, IR8's downfall   was that it did not taste all that good. It 
also suffered repeated attacks from pests. So the IRRI replaced it with new 
strains down the line that tasted   better and resisted pests better. One 
example is IR36. Released in 1976,   it is still grown today which makes it one 
of the most successful rice strains ever. Other innovations associated with the Green 
Revolution include advances in irrigation   and fertilizer usage. So not only were we 
getting more crops out of each plot of land,   we were also expanding the amount 
of land we were able to cultivate. From 1966 to 2000, the Asian population 
grew by about 90%. Paddy rice production   more than kept up - expanding about 
130% over the same time period. ## Changing Markets So from the start of the Green 
Revolution to around the 2000s,   rice production in Asia has gone up and prices 
on the global rice market have gone down. There were a few bumps here and there. The biggest 
was the Global Food Crisis in 1973 to 1975. A large El Nino event cut crop production in 
Southeast Asia. Then for a few months in 1973,   Thailand banned rice exports 
entirely. That was a nail-biter. But overall the trend held up. You had 
traditional dominant rice exporters like   Thailand and Vietnam ramping up their production.   Though Vietnam exited the market for a 
while due to war and collectivization. In the 1980s, Asian governments liberalized 
their rice trading policies - bringing new   entrants into the rice market. This brought 
down the market rice price yet further. India, for example. India first entered the 
markets in the 2000s and has since grown to   be the biggest exporter of non-Basmati 
rice. Today in 2022, they ship more than   the next four biggest exporters, and 
over 140 countries import their rice. New importers, too. The Middle East and African   countries became significant rice 
importers throughout the 1980s. And interestingly enough, China too - the world's 
largest rice producer. They had been a top three   rice exporter as late as 1975. Today, they 
are the world's largest importer of rice. ## For Whom Rice Matters Most Rice is Asia's single most important food. But not   in terms of actual economic 
value as measured in output. Even back in 1961, rice production accounted 
for less than 7% of East Asian GDP, 8.4% in   South Asia, and 14.5% in Southeast Asia. And 
in terms of world GDP, it was a bit over 0.5%. Over time, that share has 
gotten even smaller. In 2007,   rice production was worth less than 1% of 
East Asian GDP, 2.7% of South Asian GDP,   and 3.8% of Southeast Asian GDP. And in 
terms of global GDP, rice was just 0.174%. Rice is an inferior good. The richer you are,   the less of it you eat. Rice's peak in Asia 
calorie-wise was in 1970 during the early   years of the Green Revolution. Back then, 
it provided 38.2% of people's calories. Today, Asians spend less than 5% 
of their budgets on rice and get   70% of their calories from things other than rice. This number differs by region. 
The drop was especially large in   the Republic of Korea - 49.8% 
in 1980 to just 6.8% in 2007. The People's Republic of China experienced 
a big decline too - 38.7% to 26.8%. So economically, rice is not worth all that 
much. And that is exactly why it matters   so much to the poor. Rich countries and rich 
people can go buy chicken breasts and avocado   toast to get their calories. But poor people 
in Asia and the rest of the world need rice. Rice’s low economic value but high 
food security value mean that most   countries reserve their rice production 
for domestic consumption. Only about 7-8%   of the world's total rice production goes 
across countries' borders as part of trade. This makes the international rice market quite 
thin, with fewer transactions than that of other   grain commodities like wheat. Such a thinly 
traded market can be vulnerable to disruptions. ## Changes 2000 and 2001 marked a historic 
low in global rice prices. After that, prices started trending 
up again. From 2001 to 2007,   real rice prices grew at about 1% a 
year. There are a few reasons for this. One big reason is simply that rice prices were too   low - their lowest in over a hundred 
years. We should expect some snapback. But you can look at a few other factors too. 
Rice yields stopped growing as fast. Nations   were investing less research and development 
into rice agriculture in the 1990s and the 2000s. The changing climate seemed to have impeded 
rice yields too. Modern experiments with the   original IR8 rice strain find yield 
declines by about 15% or 1-1.5 tons   per hectare. The most significant 
cause was a "changed environment". Another factor was oil and energy. Oil prices 
hit a low in 2000, but rapidly rose after 2001.   This affected the cost of critical inputs 
like fertilizer and rice growing tools. Another thing was that the low rice prices of 
the late 1990s were artificially suppressed by   the big currency devaluations after 
the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis. The Thai Baht in particular took 
a massive tumble. This raised rice   prices for ordinary Thai people as it 
raised the cost of inputs like oil. But   the low Baht also made the rice price 
as denominated in dollars way cheaper. Back then, the Thai government opted against 
export restrictions to keep domestic prices   down. Perhaps because they needed the foreign 
currency so badly. But after the crisis passed,   the Thai economy recovered and the Baht 
currency returned to its previous levels. ## Rising Food Prices and Spillover This trend of rising food 
prices accelerated in 2006. As America fell into recession in the 
wake of the Global Financial Crisis,   the US dollar weakened which caused 
dollar denominated oil prices to rise. Higher energy prices in turn caused food prices to   go higher. Corn and wheat prices more 
than doubled from Jan 2006 to Oct 2007. Wall Street hedge funds, pension funds, sovereign 
wealth funds and other commodity speculators   pulled their cash from stocks and bonds, 
putting them into these global commodities. Despite this, rice prices stayed relatively 
stable - growing just 12% over the same   time period. That is because the global 
rice supply situation was quite solid. Rice production in 2007/2008 in Asia, Latin 
America, and Africa reached record levels. And supplies were the highest in 
three or four years. In 2007/2008,   the ratio of rice supplies to 
consumption was about 18.3%. Despite this, there were some 
concerns - primarily related to   the weather. Floods and Cyclone Sidr damaged 
Bangladesh's rice crop - cutting it by 1%. It doesn't sound like much, but this 
forced Bangladesh - which back then   hosted 145 million people - to raise their 
rice imports 3 times over. Bangladesh is a   country that seems to be always living on the 
knife's edge when it comes to rice production. We also had the ongoing Millennium 
Drought in Australia and a cold   snap in China. These took some smaller 
sized rice exporters out of the market. Ultimately however, the most proximate 
trigger for the 2008 Asian rice crisis   was not fundamentals, but fear 
and runaway demand for rice. ## India's Export Ban All the way back in October 9th 2007, India put a 
temporary halt on all exports of non-Basmati rice. Back then, India was the world's second largest   rice exporter - providing 17% of 
the world market from 2002 to 2006. Three weeks later, they resumed 
exports but set a minimum export   price that was way higher than the 
quoted price on the global markets. For example, the first minimum export price 
at the end of the month was set at $425 a ton,   $100 per ton higher than what was 
quoted in neighboring Pakistan. None of this really did much to the rice market. 
But then few months later in April 2008, India   once more declared a total ban on non-Basmati 
rice exports. This one got people's attention. Why did India take the first step 
on this? In the previous year 2006,   India had suffered a bad wheat crop. This 
meant that the country had to import more   wheat than usual for the 2006-2007 
period, about 6.7 million tons. In order to keep the country's big food 
security distribution system - the Public   Distribution System - supplied with 
grain, India limited their rice exports. Over the past 7 years, India had been 
running up a big food subsidy bill.   It really took a big jump in 2001 
when the Public Distribution System   cut their release grain prices 
and forgot to raise them again. And with the country ramping 
up for the coming elections,   now was not the time to lift those 
subsidies and expose the voting poor   to higher food prices. So something had 
to give, and that was the rice exports. ## Vietnam For whatever reason India did this, it had 
a massive effect on the global rice market. In 2007, India provided 5.3 million 
tons of the 32.1 million tons of rice   traded around the world. And even 
though their ban was not as total   as it might have been implied, the 
rice markets panicked accordingly. Big rice importers like 
Indonesia, the Philippines,   Bangladesh and Nigeria would 
have to turn to the other big   rice exporting countries to make up the 
shortfall. Namely, Thailand and Vietnam. Rice prices surged. In January 2008,   rice was quoted at about $375 per ton. By the 
end of March 2008, that had grown to $594. The New York Times reported food riots in Guinea,   Mauritania, and Mexico. Even people in the 
states were buying more rice than normal. That was a bit ridiculous. Richer countries would   ride the whole thing out just fine. But 
in poorer countries like the Philippines,   the lack of rice was destabilizing. President 
Gloria Arroyo ordered a hunt for rice hoarders. And then came Vietnam. Vietnam's rice 
policies are opaque. The government   issues an export quota shortly before one 
of the country’s three harvests in the year. These sales are executed through Vietnam's two   state owned enterprises - 
Vinafood 1 and Vinafood 2. So in mid-January 2008, Vietnam issued 
their rice export sales quota as usual.   But then in late March/early April they halted 
export sales due to fears of unusually cold   weather in the Red River Delta. Later in the 
month, this sales ban was extended to June. Worse yet, Vinafood 2 had sold more than 
what they can promise. They sold 622,000   tons of rice to the Philippines 
for delivery by the first quarter,   but ended up only delivering 
slightly more than half of that. Desperate, the Philippine government 
struck a series of direct deals with   Vinafood 2 at increasingly higher prices. 
It was a terrible use of taxpayer funds,   and it created the notion that 
rice should be bought at any price. ## Crisis Spreads Fear in the rice markets continued to spread. In March 2008, Egypt and Cambodia both announced 
or extended rice export bans. Though the countries   are not big rice exporters - Cambodia is a 
medium sized exporter that mostly exports   just to Vietnam - their actions nevertheless 
spread more fear through the rice markets. There were food riots in the Philippines, 
Egypt, Bangladesh and much of West Africa.   Egypt's food riots were especially 
bad - the worse since the 1970s. Traditional big rice importers announced that they   would enter the market and build 
up their stocks of rice. Nigeria,   Bangladesh, and Iran piled in for no reason 
other than to get ahead of rising prices. Their purchases are usually executed 
throughout the year - spreading out demand.   Having everyone enter only caused prices 
to rise even further. In a single month,   rice prices went from $594 per 
ton to $907 - jumping over 50%. ## Thailand As the crisis developed, Thailand - the Saudi 
Arabia of rice - sold more into the market. In the six months after the first 
Indian rice restriction, Thailand   exported over a million tons of rice each month. But then in mid-March 2008, the Thai 
vice-minister talked about putting a   cap on rice export prices. 
And then a few weeks later,   their minister predicted rice prices of 
$1,000 per ton and urged farmers not to sell. I can't say this was responsible. Rice 
prices at the end of April 2008 were   already breaking $900 per ton. If Thailand 
banned sales too, then prices might have   exceeded their inflation-adjusted 
record of $2,700 in April 1974. Then a few weeks later, the Thai government 
resurrected the old idea of joining with Cambodia,   Vietnam, and Burma to create a rice cartel - the 
Organization of Rice Exporting Countries, or OREC. This dumb idea was dumb back in 2001 when 
then-Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra first   proposed it. And now in May 2008, it not 
only still looked dumb, but also predatory.   Cambodia endorsed the idea but the Philippines was   extremely angry over it. Thailand 
quietly nixed it a week later. In the end, Thailand never 
halted sales. They injected   an extra 3 million tons of rice 
into the market at a crucial time. They probably could have sold another 2 
million more had their sellers not held   out for higher prices. Or if they tapped 
their massive government rice stores. By the time they actually did 
open those storehouses for sale,   the crisis was already over. Classic 
Wallstreetbets degen behavior. ## Crashing the Crisis In early May 2008, the rice 
crisis only seemed to intensify. On May 3rd, Cyclone Nargis struck 
Myanmar's Irrawady Delta, a key   rice growing region - affecting 2 million 
tons of rice. Prices remained elevated. How do you pop a bubble? By stripping the 
fear from people's eyes and letting them   realize that prices have separated 
from the fundamental reality. On May 8th 2009, two American 
economists at the Center for   Global Development - Peter Timmer and Tom 
Slayton - authored a paper called "Japan,   China and Thailand Can Solve the Rice 
Crisis - But U.S. Leadership Is Needed". In their note, they pointed out 
that Japan had imported a million   and a half tons of rice from the United States,   Thailand and Vietnam. This is due to prior 
obligations from the World Trade Organization. The US has long fought to crack open Japan's very   closed rice markets. And they did manage 
to get Japan to buy this foreign rice.   But you can lead a Japanese horse to 
rice but you can't make them eat it. The Japanese don't want to sell this 
medium-grain rice into their domestic   market. Perhaps because they don't 
want Japanese consumers developing   a preference for it over locally produced - 
and far more expensive - short-grain rice. But at the same time, Japan can't re-export this   purchased rice elsewhere in fear 
of violating their WTO obligations   and incurring political repercussions 
from the United States rice industry. So they just leave it there. Some of it goes 
to North Korea as food aid. But most of it just   sits in warehouses until it degrades enough 
that it can be fed to chickens and piggies.   So why not have the United States allow Japan to   sell that rice to the countries most 
in need of it? Like the Philippines. The same day the paper came out, news 
broke that Japan and the Philippines were   negotiating on a rice deal. On May 12th, 
the US Congress held a few hearings. And   then soon after that, Japanese and American 
trade officials held meetings to discuss it. Bloomberg then broke a story quoting an 
unnamed US trade official saying that   the US would not object if Japan 
were to release their rice stocks. The mere possibility of them doing so 
caused prices to decline in both the   US and Thailand. Futures traded in Chicago 
fell for four straight days after the news   broke. And Rice futures in Thailand 
fell 29% from May 13th to June 3rd. In late May 2008, the Philippines and 
Japan struck a deal for 200,000 tons   of rice. And then a few days later in 
June, Japan pledged to sell 300,000   tons of their stored rice 
to stabilize the markets. The simple announcement was more than 
enough to pop the rice bubble. Japan   ended up exporting even less rice in 2008 
than they did in 2007. They never needed to,   after all. The rice had always been there. Rice prices in Thailand fell back down from   $1,000 per ton in May 2008 to 
$550 at the end of the year. From then until as of this writing in August 
2023, prices haven't since cleared $634 per ton. In mid-June, the Philippines and Vietnam sealed a 
deal for 600,000 tons of rice. A few days later,   Vietnam lifted their export ban, ending 
the Great Asian Rice Crisis of 2008. ## Conclusion Policymakers have since studied the Great Asian 
Rice Crisis and those countries affected by it. For instance, another poor southeast Asian 
country Indonesia largely sidestepped the   rice crisis thanks to a good 
harvest that year. China and   India sailed through relatively well 
by relying on massive rice stores. Countries realized the risks of relying on 
external rice markets for critical domestic   needs. And since then, they have tried to expand 
the amount of rice grown within their own borders. Now 15 years later, India is again cutting 
down on rice exports. Does India's ban   herald another wave of crazy rice prices? 
Rice prices are already on their way up. Who knows. I would like to think that 
the world is a bit more prepared now.   But as Lenin once said, every society 
is three rice bowls away from chaos.