In the heart of Minneapolis, Minnesota on the 
Mississippi River is the picturesque Upper   Saint Anthony Falls Lock and Dam, which originally 
made it possible to travel upstream on the river   past the falls starting in 1937. It’s a famous 
structure with a fascinating history, plus it has   this striking overflow spillway with a stilling 
basin at the toe that protects the underlying   sandstone from erosion. But there’s another dam 
just downstream, that is a little less-well-known   and a little less scenic, aptly called the Lower 
Saint Anthony Falls Lock and Dam. Strangely,   the spillway for the lower dam is less than half 
the width of the one above, even though they’re   on the exact same stretch of the Mississippi 
River, subject to the same conditions and the   same floods. That’s partly because, unlike its 
upstream cousin, the Lower Saint Anthony Falls dam   is equipped with gates, providing greater control 
and capacity for the flow of water through the   dam. In fact, dams all over the world use gates 
to control the flow of water through spillways. If you ask me, there’s almost nothing on this blue 
earth more fascinating than water infrastructure.   Plus I’ve always wanted to get a 3D printer for 
the shop. So, I’ve got the acrylic flume out,   I put some sparkles in the water, and I printed a 
few types of gates so we can see them in action,   talk about the engineering behind them, and 
compare their pros and cons. And I even made   one type of gate that’s designed to raise and 
lower itself with almost no added force. But   this particular type of gate was made famous in 
2019, so we’ll talk about that too. I’m Grady,   and this is Practical Engineering. On today’s 
episode, we’re talking about spillway gates. This episode is sponsored by 
Henson Shaving. More on them later. Almost all dams need a way to release excess 
water when the reservoir is full. If you’ve   ever tried to build an impoundment 
across a small stream or channel,   you know how powerful even a small amount of 
flowing water can be. Modern spillways are often   the most complex part of a dam because of the 
high velocities of flow. If not carefully managed,   that quickly flowing water can quickly tear a 
dam apart. The incredible damage at Oroville   Dam in 2017 is a striking example of this. 
Although many dams use uncontrolled spillways   where the water naturally flows through once 
the reservoir rises to reach a certain level,   gated spillways provide more control over the 
flow, and so can allow us to build smaller,   more cost-effective structures. There are 
countless arrangements of mechanical devices that   have been used across the world and throughout 
history to manage the flow of water. But,   modern engineering has coalesced to variations on 
only a few different kinds of gates. One of the   simplest is the crest gate that consists 
of a hinged leaf on top of a spillway. A primary benefit of the crest gate is that 
ice and debris flow right over the top,   since there’s nothing for the flow 
to get caught on. Another advantage   of crest gates is that they provide a 
lot of control over the upstream level,   since they act like a weir with an adjustable 
top. So, you’ll often see crest gates used on   dams where the upstream water level needs to be 
kept within a narrow range. For example, here in   San Antonio we have the RiverWalk downtown. If the 
water gets too low, it won’t be very attractive,   and if it gets too high, it will overtop the 
sidewalks and flood all the restaurants. So,   most of the dams that manage the flow of water 
in the San Antonio River downtown use steel crest   gates like this one. Just up the road from me, 
Longhorn Dam holds back Ladybird Lake (formerly   Town Lake) in downtown Austin. Longhorn Dam has 
vertical lift gates to pass major floods, but   the central gates on the dam that handle everyday 
flows are crest gates. Finally, the dam that holds   back Town Lake in Tempe, Arizona uses a series 
of crest gates that are lowered during floods. Crest gates are attached to some kind of arm 
that raises or lowers the leaf as needed. Most   use hydraulic cylinders like the one in Tempe 
Town Lake Dam. The ones here in San Antonio   actually use a large nut on a long threaded rod 
like the emergency jack that comes in some cars. You might notice I’m using an intern with a metal 
hook to open and close the model crest gate,   but most interns aren’t actually strong enough 
to hold up a crest gate at a real dam. In fact,   one of the most significant disadvantages 
of crest gates is that the operators,   whether hydraulic cylinders or something else, 
not only have to manage the weight of the gate   itself but also the hydrostatic force of the 
water behind the gate, which can be enormous.   Let’s do a little bit of quick recreational 
math to illustrate what I mean: The gates at Tempe Town Lake are 32 meters or 
about 106 feet long and 6.4 meters or 21 feet   tall. If the upstream water level is at the top of 
one of these gates, that means the average water   pressure on the gate is around four-and-a-half 
pounds for every square inch or about 31,000   newtons for every square meter. Doesn’t sound like 
a lot, but when you add up all those square inches   and square meters of such a large gate, you get 
a total force of nearly one-and-a-half million   pounds or 660,000 kilograms. That’s the weight 
of almost two fully-loaded 747s, and by the way,   Tempe Town Lake has eight of these gates. The 
hydraulic cylinders that hold them up have to   withstand those enormous forces 24/7. That’s a lot 
to ask of a hydraulic or electromechanical system,   especially because when the operation system 
fails on a crest gate, gravity and hydrostatic   pressure tend to push the gate open, letting 
all the water out and potentially creating a   dangerous condition downstream. The next kind 
of spillway gate solves some of these problems. Radial crest gates, also known as Tainter 
gates, use a curved face connected to struts   that converge downstream toward a hinge called 
a trunnion. A hoist lifts the gate using a set   of chains or cables, and water flows underneath. 
My model being made from plastic means it kind   of stays where it’s put due to friction, but 
full-scale radial gates are heavy enough to   close under their own weight. That’s a good thing, 
because, unlike most crest gates, if the hoist   breaks, the gate fails closed. The hoist is also 
mostly just lifting the weight of the gate itself,   with the trunnion bearing the hydrostatic force 
of the water behind held back. These features   make radial gates so reliable that they’re used 
in the vast majority of gated spillways at large   dams around the world. If you go visit a dam 
or see a swooping aerial shot of a majestically   flowing spillway, there’s a pretty good chance 
that the water is flowing under a radial gate. The trunnion that holds back all that pressure 
while still allowing the gate to pivot is a pretty   impressive piece of engineering. I mean, it’s 
a big metal pin, but the anchors that hold that   pin to the rest of the dam are pretty impressive. 
Water pressure acts perpendicular to a surface,   so the hydrostatic pressure on a radial gate acts 
directly through this pin. That keeps the force   off the hoist, providing low-friction movement. 
But it’s not entirely friction-free. In fact,   the design of many older radial gates neglected 
the force of friction within the trunnion and   needed retrofits later on. I mentioned the 
story of California’s Folsom Dam in a prior   video. That one wasn’t so lucky to get a 
structural retrofit before disaster struck   in 1995. Operators were trying to raise one 
of the gates to make a release through the   spillway when the struts buckled, releasing 
a wave of water downstream. Folsom Reservoir   was half empty by the time they closed 
the opening created by the failed gate. How did they do it? Stoplogs, another feature 
you’re likely to see on most large dams across   the world. Just like all mechanical devices that 
could cause dangerous conditions and tremendous   damage during a failure, spillway gates need 
to be regularly inspected and maintained.   That’s hard to do when they’re submerged. 
The inspecting part is possible,   but it’s hard to paint things underwater. In 
fact, it’s much simpler, safer, and more cost   effective to do most types of maintenance 
in the dry. So we put gates on our gates. Usually these are simpler structures, 
just beams that fit into slots upstream   of the main gate. Stoplogs usually can’t 
be installed in flowing water and are only   used as a temporary measure to dewater the 
main gate for inspection or maintenance. I   put some stoplog slots on my model so you can 
see how this works. I can drop the stoplogs   into the slots one by one until they reach 
the reservoir level. Then I crack the gate   open and the space is dewatered. You can see 
there’s still some leakage of the stoplogs,   but that’s normal and those leaks can be diverted 
pretty easily. The main thing is that now the   upstream face of the gate is dry so it can be 
inspected, cleaned, repaired, or repainted. And if you look closely, it’s not just my model 
stoplogs that leak, but the gates too. In fact,   all spillway gates leak at least a little bit. 
It’s usually not a big issue, but we can’t have   them leaking too much. After all, there’s not 
much point in having a gate if it can’t hold back   water. The steel components on spillway gates 
don’t just ride directly against the concrete   surface of the spillway. Instead, they are 
equipped with gigantic rubber seals that slide   on a steel plate embedded in the concrete. 
Even these seals have a lot of engineering   in them. I won’t read you the entire Hydraulic 
Laboratory Report No. 323 - Tests for Seals on   Radial Gates or the US Army Corps of Engineers 
manual on the Design of Spillway Tainter Gates,   but suffice it to say, we’ve tried a lot 
of different ways to keep gates watertight   over the years and have it mostly sealed up to a 
science now. Most gates use a j-bulb seal that’s   oriented so that the water pressure from upstream 
pushes the seal against the embedded plate,   making the gate more watertight. Different 
shapes of rubber seals can be used in different   locations to allow all parts to move without 
letting water through where it’s not wanted. In fact, there’s one more type of spillway gate 
I want to share where the seals are particularly   important. Beartrap gates are like crest gates 
in that they have a leaf hinged at the bottom,   but beartrap gates use two overlapping hinged 
leaves, and they open and close in an entirely   different way. The theory behind a beartrap gate 
is that you can create a pressurized chamber   between the two leaves. If you introduce 
water from upstream into this chamber,   the resulting pressure will float the 
bottom leaf, pushing it upward. That,   in turn, raises the upper leaf. The upstream 
water level rises as the gate goes up,   increasing the pressure within the chamber 
between the gates. The two leaves are usually   tied in a way that once fully open, they can be 
locked together. To lower the gates, the conduit   to the upstream water is closed, and the water 
in the chamber is allowed to drain downstream,   relieving the upward pressure on the lower leaf so 
it can slowly fall back to its resting position. It sounds simple in theory, but in 
practice this is pretty hard to get right. I built a model of a bear 
trap gate that mostly works. If I open this valve on the upstream side, 
I subject the chamber to the upstream water   pressure. In ideal conditions with 
no friction and watertight seals,   this would create enough pressure to lift both 
leaves. In reality, it needs a little bit of   help from the intern hook. But you can see 
that, as the water level upstream increases,   the lower leaf floats upward as well. When 
the gates are fully opened, the leaves lock   together to be self-supporting. Some old bear 
trap gates used air pressure in the chamber to   give the gates a little bit of help going up. 
I tried that in my model and it worked like a   charm. It took a few tries to figure out how much 
pressure to send, but eventually I got it down. It’s not just my model bear 
trap gate that’s finicky,   though. Despite the huge benefit of not 
needing any significant outside force to   raise and lower the gates, this type 
of system has never been widely used. This chamber between the leaves is the perfect 
place for silt and sand to deposit. They were also   quite difficult to inspect and maintain because 
you had to dewater the entire chamber and reroute   flows. And because they weren’t widely used, 
there were never any off-the-shelf components,   so anytime something needed to 
be fixed, it was a custom job. The world got to see a pretty dramatic 
example of the challenges associated   with maintaining old bear trap gates in 2019 when   one of the gates at Dunlap Dam near New 
Braunfels, Texas completely collapsed. This dam was one of five on the Guadalupe River 
built in the 1930s to provide hydropower to the   area. But over nearly a century that followed, 
power got a lot cheaper, and replacing old dams   got a lot more expensive. Since the dam 
wasn’t built with maintenance in mind,   it was nearly impossible to inspect the 
condition of the steel hinges of the gate.   But that lack of surveillance caught up 
with the owner on the morning of May 14,   2019 when a security camera at the dam 
caught the dramatic failure of one of the   gate’s hinges. The lake behind the dam quickly 
drained and kicked off a chain of legal battles,   some of which are still going on today. Luckily, 
no one was hurt as a result of the failure.   Eventually, the homeowners around the lake 
upstream banded together to tax themselves   and rebuild the structure, a task that is nearly 
complete now more than three years later. Of   course, there’s a lot more to this fascinating 
story, but it’s a great reminder of the importance   of spillway gates in our lives and what can go 
wrong if we neglect our water infrastructure. And here’s what can go wrong if you 
neglect to shave when you don’t look   good in a beard. My New Year’s Resolution 
is not to try and grow facial hair,   and I think it might be my wife’s resolution too. 
Last year Henson offered to sponsor an episode,   and I told them I wanted to try the razor first. 
So they sent me one, and I did try it. And I don’t   even know where my old razor is now because I 
never used it again after that. The Henson razor   was borne from a machine shop’s pivot away from 
aerospace parts during the pandemic slowdown,   and it shows. It’s just such a piece 
of craftsmanship. And here’s the thing:   Is a new razor going to change your life? Probably 
not. But, shaving’s a chore. A mundane chore for   most of us. And using a precision tool, at least 
to me, makes it feel less mundane, and instead, a   small part of my day that I actually look forward 
to. I had never used a safety razor before this,   but I’ve found that it’s easier to use because it 
doesn’t clog up, and the blade is supported across   the entire width, so it’s less likely to cause 
razor burn. I also thought $70 was a bit steep for   a razor until I did the math for how much I was 
spending replacing cartridge blades and realized,   for most people, it will pay for itself within 
a year. The blades for the Henson razor are so   cheap you could probably put a new one on for 
every shave and still save money. And in fact,   if you buy a razor, put the 100-pack of blades in 
your cart, and use my code PRACTICALENGINEERING at   checkout, those blades are on me. And 100 
blades is going to last you a long time.   There’s no subscription service or a monthly 
fee, it’s just a cool razor that I really like   and I think you will too. Again, use my code 
PRACTICALENGINEERING at checkout to support   the channel and get 100-blades on me. Thank you 
for watching and let me know what you think.