- Hey, guys, this is Austin. Ken, why have you gathered us here today? - Because the headphone jack is dead. - Is it though? I just saw the Galaxy S10
it's got a headphone jack. - Shhhhh. So the premise of this
video is that you're going to fix the headphone jack,
gonna bring it back to life? - I'm gonna try. The first solution is the
one that comes in the box, which are these. - This is not a headphone jack. - Yeah. - This is not a headphone jack at all. They're fine, I mean they're
not like the worst things in the world, but now
that they like kind of... just they're fine. - They're okay. I mean they come in the box so how much can you really expect? - So what I do when I
need a headphone jack is that I just pull out
one of my many adapters, including USB-C, headphone jack. - To Lightning. - To Lightning, yeah. - The only problem with this
and the Lightning headphones down here is that you cannot
charge and listen to your music at the same time.
- Ah very. Well you can wirelessly charge. You don't have a Galaxy
S10E in your pocket. Now available at Samsung. Oh I'm sorry, I'll stop, I'll stop. - You wanna tell me something
about our backdoor deals? - What is our solution, Mr. Bolido? - Okay, so Belkin came out
with this thing. So it's- - What? Oh. - Yeah. (laughs) - This is two Lightning ports
to a single Lightning port. Like, can I plug in two
headphones at the same time? - I don't believe you can,
because I believe one gets turned on for power, the other
one gets turned on for audio. So here's a power bank. Very simple, easy. We have a Lightning to USB-C because that's what I have around. Got some Aure Samo right there. - Look at this. Cut all this out. I hear anime stuff, okay cool. - Yeah, charging, listening to music. - Yeah, revolution. You can charge and listen
to music at the same time. As if you can buy a Galaxy
S10 and do the same thing. - How much are they paying you? - Not enough to deal with this. (laughs) I get the idea that you
want to charge your phone and listen to music at the same time. The way I want to do that
is not with another pair of Lightning headphones. Because there are a few
decent pairs of Lightning headphones, but generally
speaking at this point, it seems like the
Lightning jack might even be on its way out. I would not want to invest
in anything Lightning. Not specifically, besides
maybe to replace a cable on some old headphones or
something, but besides that. I'm not going to pay this
money to listen to my stupid AirPods, earpods,
whatever these things are. What's our better solution? - I don't exactly have a better solution. - You're giving up already? What kind of video is this?
You need to be more excited. You're like I have the
solution. Be confident. - The urBeats Lightning- - Oh, with Lightning, I've seen these. The idea is that these are
lower end Beats, right? These are like what 60 bucks or something? - Yeah, like 50, 60 bucks,
something like that. They also have the regular one as well. I highly doubt we'll notice
that much of a difference, honestly, between the
Lightning version and the 3.5 mil version, but
just for the sake of science. Why not? - I like that these are yellow. These are like iPhone XR colors. - Instead of this, you have this. - These Beats are magnetic.
That's a nice touch. Do these actually sound any good? - You tell me. I literally
just opened them now. - I'm gonna listen to your
music so you can listen- - I'll listen to my music
and then we'll just form our own opinion with our music. - These aren't bad. These sound okay. - Yeah, I'm not crazy thrilled about them. - 60 bucks. - 60 bucks. - They're fine. I've listened
to worse for the price. - For what you'll find at
Best Buy, if you just wanted to grab a pair of $60 headphones. I feel like most people
will be happy with these. - The thing is the Beats
sound I hate a lot less the cheaper the price. When you're talking like
3, 400 bucks, I'm like eh. - If you're paying $100
for this, I would be upset. - Even so, but we're talking 50, 60 bucks, there's definitely someone who's gonna really like this sound. Someone who really wants
things very punchy, very kind of bass heavy, I don't hate it. - So we actually unboxed
these on Mystery Tech. These are the Zero Audio
Carbor Tenor headphones. - Those are dope. The
isolation of those is insane. - We were on flights
yesterday and they legit cut out a lot of the ambient noise. These are a slight bit tinier. - That's a fair bit smaller. - Yeah and most importantly,
I feel like this just sounds way better than this. - Even with the headphone jack, even with the headphone jack. These come with the phones. I don't think they do
anymore, but they're still reasonably cheap so it's not crazy to have at least a couple of these adapters. - I'll argue that for $50, I
don't think it's a bad idea to just carry this thing
around and just keep it on your favorite pair of headphones. - This is getting a little goofy. What's your solution, what do you? - This is what I roll with. I feel like it's the end-all,
for me, as an iPhone user that wants great audio but
with a setup that might be more than what other people
would take, but I'm fine taking. - Okay, you've really hyped this up. I need to see your setup now. - Something that I actually have wanted to play with for a while. I ended up getting one of these. This is the DragonFly
Red DAC from AudioQuest. It's meant to drive
high impedance headphones, as well be a better DAC than this thing. - Okay, so this is a USB-A. How do you get this to the iPhone? - I got a dongle. - Oh. Damnit. - There are two pieces to this. One- - It's really floppy. - So we have Austin's pair of headphones. - Final E4000s. I'll be real with you. I don't know if I totally
notice a massive difference. I'd have to listen to them back to back, versus the standard adapter. It sounds good. It
definitely sounds solid. - The reality is is that
this doesn't have any additional characteristics to it. It's gonna sound pretty similar to this. - It's just better. A
little more detailed. - Ever so slightly better, but
the idea with using something like this is that you can
actually listen to high res stuff. - Ah, you're not using
Spotify with that, I see. - Spotify is pretty much the bottleneck. It doesn't output high res. If you use stuff like Tidal, for example, then you might notice an
ever so slight difference. Oh, yeah, yeah. - Let's not play that anymore. So what's the cost of the DragonFly plus the camera connection kit? - 200 bucks at Best Buy. - The camera connection kit is like 20? - No, so this thing is like 45 bucks. - What? - Yeah, this is, I believe 20 to 30. (grunts) This thing is, what, like 15
bucks or something like that? - Probably. - USB-C to Lightning. - You can fix the headphone
jack on the iPhone if you don't mind something
which is, I would say, not particularly compact
or portable and also if you don't mind spending in excess of $200. (train horn in distance) That was a really long train horn. That's like an impressive one. This is something you do? - Not when I'm running around, no, but... - This is a thing that Mr.
Bolido has done in his life. This. - It's also not done yet. Let me just... - Of course, there you go. So... - No, we're not there yet. And then I gotta charge it. - Okay, I've got power
to the phone. I've got... - Remember, this thing pulls power too so you need to keep your
phone charged so that... - Wait, does this actually
impact your battery life? - It pulls something- (laughs) - Why is there a bunch of
other accessories down here? What else is down here? - These are actually just
the boxes of what we just- - But wait, what's this then? - Oh. - This is a headphone jack. You're hiding a whole
other headphone jack here. What's that for? - I forgot about this. - You can't even do a video, man. You don't even know. - I forgot about this. This might be a nice
middle ground for people. It is a Lightning to Lightning
for charging and a 3.5. - And headphone jack. Now
that makes more sense, right? It's still a little on the goofy side, but you can easily charge your phone and you can listen to audio at the same time. Basically, we're gonna compare
my setup with a single dongle and that's it, to your thing. - Yes. I think for scientific
sake, since I already know what this sounds like, you should listen to both back to back. By the way, he's listening to Spotify, which most people would
be listening to anyway. For as far as a scientific
comparison is concerned, this is probably for the masses. - This sounds kinda cheap. - Oh. - It's not that bad, not
that bad, not that bad. Let's be calm here. - Is Ken right? - Damnit, Ken. Why is your stupid solution better? Why is this the best solution? Why am I...? That's better, dude. It's not even close. This is fine. This honestly doesn't maybe
even necessarily sound as good as this. It's okay. Honestly, for all I know, this
could be the exact same thing and it's just like a placebo. This sounds decent, but the DragonFly, it's got so much more punch. It's so much clearer. I'm... - Who would want this garbage? Just get dongle city. Dongle city. Or you know, at the end of the day... - LG V40, Galaxy S10. - Or just get AirPods. - This is not even
remotely the same category. You're talking about AirPods? I like AirPods, but you're not
getting this kind of quality out of AirPods. - Yeah, but Bluetooth is the future. - No, clearly this is the future. (laughs)