- Origin sponsored this video
featuring the new EVO17-S. It's compact, like a machine that you'd actually
consider carrying around with you at just five pounds, 0.78 inches. But I don't consider it a conflict with my framework shares, since it's a very
different class of machine, boasting the grunt of a
fully fledged desktop setup, thanks to its RTX 3080 Max-Q GPU, and eight core Core i7-11800H. Or is it? To find out, we will be pushing
it to its absolute limits, attempting to run demanding AAA games on not just the built-in display, but on one, two, three external 4K displays. Can it do it? (upbeat music) Let's start with a quick
look at the machine. For customization, Origin
offers hydro dipping, laser etching, and UV prints, like what we've got featured here. They'll definitely make it harder to blend in if you want to stealthily game in your next board meeting, but you can't really put a price tag on gamer flare, can you? You can. It's $100 for any of the
pre-designed graphics, and up to 200 if you go for a hydro dip. Now, let's flip it open
and check out the guts. Our unit is absolutely tricked out, which is fortunate because we are gonna need all the mustard we can get. Get it, Colin? If you have maximum mustard, your, your opponents can't catch up. Ooh, there it goes. Hey, all right. Right here's our CPU. So that's a Core i7 11800H. This puppy maxes out at 4.6 gigahertz. We've got 32 gigs of Corsair
Vengeance DDR4 memory, running in dual channel. Regrettably, it's at 2666
mega transfers per second, but my bet is that this is due to the ongoing silicon shortage
because it's out of stock. Our storage though is a
whopping two terabytes of MP600 Pro PCI Express Gen 4 goodness. And this right here is about to be the hardest working
RTX 3080 Max-Q on the planet once we've got three 4K
monitors hooked up to it. I hope that this five heat
pipe dual fan cooler is up to the task. The last notable bits in here
before we close it up are, of course, the second M.2 slot, which you can use to expand your storage, and the 73 watthour battery
that gave this design about three hours in the
modern office PCMark test. Looks like our exploratory
surgery wasn't fatal. So let's go ahead, use the
fingerprint sensor to sign in, and then talk a little bit
about the keyboard and trackpad. This is a big area where
gaming laptops have improved over the last few years. This track pad, remember
the little tiny ones we used to get on gaming laptops? Nice and big. If you like the clicky
left and right buttons, you'll really enjoy these. If you don't then, well,
they're still there. So there's that. And as for the keyboard, it has perky RGB
backlighting and, overall, actually a surprisingly good feel. Oh, I have the caps lock
on. That won't help. There's more deck flex than I'd like, but somehow it doesn't really seem to affect the typing experience much. And when you consider that
this is a 17 inch model, that is a little bit more common. The trackpad uses Windows
Precision drivers, which, combined with the 300 hertz
display option that we chose, makes for an extremely
responsive feeling experience. And the display doesn't have any kind of HDR certification
or anything like that, but it does get at least reasonably bright for a pretty solid SDR experience. Let's go ahead and fire up CS:GO. Let's turn the sound up. Oh God. I don't remember how many watts
the included speakers are. They're adequate. We're playing competitive
here, ladies and gentlemen. Oh, no one's dead yet.
There's your problem. (beep) Hey. Hey. Hey. Don't, don't swear. Can you take advantage
of a 300 hertz display on this laptop? The answer is absolutely yes. We're getting like 250 to 300 FPS. No, come on. Come on. Just come in here. Oh no. You're so mean. No. You know what? It's not even that loud. Mind you, we're also not
making it work that hard yet. So this is a relatively
low power RTX 3080, but that makes sense given
that it's in a slim chassis and our temps maxed out at eight degrees. It looks like they hadn't
quite capped out yet, though, so I'm going to play another round. Hardware on full looks
like it's leveled out now. We're getting around 79 degrees and anywhere from 85 to 90 watts. Now, as we transform this bad boy from notebook to battle station, let's take a look at the I/O. On the left, we've got two
3.5 millimeter audio jacks and a USB 3 five gigabit port, which currently has
our mouse dongle in it. On the right, we've got
one of these half height, gigabit ethernet jacks. Love to see that, as well as two more USB
3 five gigabit ports that we're going to use
for our gaming keyboard and a racing wheel. And then where things
get really interesting. It's right here. There's a barrel type DC connector. We can't get away from that. USB power delivery just cannot
handle the same 180 watts that the included brick can, but alongside it, Thunderbolt
4 means we've got support for daisy chaining Thunderbolt devices and with the HDMI and mini
display port connectors, gives us a total of three interfaces for high resolution monitors. So now we're ready. Almost. Since we want to get the
absolute most out of this thing, check this out. Oh yeah. You might laugh, but it's
pretty well established that this can have a measurable
impact on performance, cause it means all your
intake, nice and fresh, no restrictions. And your exhaust is just
taking that hot air away. I can just imagine showing
the prototypical Apple user my setup here. Oh boy, these are not
in the correct order. Let's go ahead and set up a
SPAN display configuration here. Oh crap. And oh, I missed it. How is it that after all these years and with all the work NVIDIA
puts into this feature for their commercial solutions, that it's still this janky? You can tell there's literally dozens of people running these configs. Hi Barnacles. I have no way of clicking
either confirm or deny on this window because I
can't make it big enough to actually see it. Hello? Create custom resolution. Why is it grayed out? It's been three days
and one call with NVIDIA that had eight people on it,
but we've got it nailed down. Surround is working. All we had to do was use
custom resolution utility because for whatever reason, the NVIDIA control
panel wasn't allowing us to set custom resolutions. Apparently they're going
to be working on that. So we used CRU to make sure that we matched our timings exactly between the HDMI and
display port monitors. The point is none of that matters. What matters is F1 2021 baby. Listen to how quiet our little
temp mode machine is running. Here it comes. (computer humming) So it's set to ultra high. I think we should probably
turn ray tracing off. We should turn DLSS on. Yep. Quality DLSS. Okay. This is for short-statured
people like me, normal. 27 FPS in menu. Think we might have to get a little bit more reasonable here. Medium. It still looks
pretty good in this game. All right, here we go, boys. Oh, okay, our force feedback
kicked in real good there. Okay. Hey, see you later, buddy. Oops. Oh, no, no, no, no. Ah. (moans) Oh, that's interesting. The wheel animations are just like, nope. This is a damn good looking
game at medium settings. And it's running at 40 FPS
on a laptop at triple 4K. I mean, you go back to Linus
Tech Tips from five years ago, I'd have told you this impossible. Oh wow, it's guiding me so much, it's basically steering for me. Look at this. Oh, do do, do, do, do, do, do, do. I'm like guy's like, uh,
sorry about that. Ha ha. GP utilization 99%. No, this is totally playable,
especially with G-Sync. Like 40 FPS in a game like this, that is absolutely playable. A GPU tenp settled in around 74. We can thank our temp mode
operation over there for that. And then our GPU video clocks
settled in around 900 high. So just under a thousand megahertz. I mean, Steve from
GamersNexus is all like, DOOM Eternal'll run on a
toaster, but at three by 4K? Significantly more CP
utilization here already. So we might not see 95 Watts to the GPU. The laptop might have to allocate its power a
little bit differently. So we're running at 11520 x 2160. I'm gonna try high. Did I say I was on high? Cause I think what I
meant to say was too high. It says 80 FPS, but you can see how average FPS
doesn't tell the whole story because our 99% frames per
second, so whenever it dips, are going down as low
as in the mid thirties. So let's go ahead and
turn it down a little bit. Absolutely playable. Definitely struggling a
little bit more on this one. Aah, where's my chainsaw at? There it is. Considering that this is a
thin gaming laptop, though, the fact that I'm doing
this at all is insane. Like this is nuts. Yeah, the render latency
is a little higher than I would prefer, and the dips are lower
than I would prefer, but it's not by any means unplayable. Interestingly, DOOM
Eternal ended up delivering almost the same amount
of power to the GPU. Just a little bit less and maintained just about exactly the same clock speeds. Wee. I think I managed to start a
game with nobody else in it, so I guess I'll win. This is gonna be sad for
Rocket League players to watch here. Not that anyone would
actually play CS:GO like this, but it does support the
resolution properly. Let's give it a shot. Surround them and user are terrible because no one would be
dumb enough to do this, but except me. Except for me. Oh, I guess I died. Come on, I just want to
get one kill, one kill. No, no, no. Come on. We're getting about 45 FPS. Sup Lemmy, where we going, dog? Lemmy and me, we're a team. Lemmy 9% health. Lemmy, come on, buddy. Aah, (babbles). That's all the proof we need that even the most legit gaming gear won't make you an epic gamer, but it gives you a chance. And the fact that this thing runs games at triple 4K at all is
incredibly impressive. So thanks Origin for sponsoring
this wacky experiment. Thanks you guys for watching. Check out the link to where
you can find the EVO17-S in the video description. They'll also have their other laptops. They've got thicker boys with much higher power
limits for their GPU's if you want the maximum performance in a portable form factor. And I think that pretty
much closes it out. Bye bye. (whispers) Go to lttstore.com. Let's try a different game first. Oy. And that's why we have breakaway cables.