- Mystery Tech. This video is brought to
you by the subscribe button. S-U-B-S-C-R-I-B-E. The ring a ling. Why is there so many
pieces of tape on that box? Is there something nefarious in this box? (box thuds) Something heavy in that box,
I'll tell you that, all right. Robo & Kala. 2-in-1 laptop, a revolutionary design
with ultimate productivity. - [Matt] So, this was originally
gonna be on "This Is"- - Okay. - [Matt] With Instagram made me buy it. - Instagram made you buy a laptop, okay? - [Matt] Well, it's, I mean,
it's an Instagram laptop. - Oh God, it's gonna be really bad? I've never heard of Robo & Kala. We've got a screen protector for a tablet, which I guess is this. We've got the keyboard, so, yep. Revolutionary Surface style tablet. And we've also got a
lightweight, shock absorption, portable water repellent computer bag. So, we've got ourselves the
tablet, well, quite light. I will say it's actually
surprisingly light. Wow! - [Matt] Like, it's gorgeous looking. - It is very thin. How is the kickstand? I mean, fine. A little, oh! (tablet rattling) That's maybe not a great sign. - [Ken] Sounds like my knees. - Okay, well that's maybe
not super impressive. So, it does have a lot of antenna lines. I'm wondering, does this
have 4G or 5G or something? 'Cause it looks like it's
got a lot of antenna lines. - [Ken] I'll tell you that, just like first impression
that bezel looks really thin. - It is quite a thin bezel. So, we've got ourselves USB-C, so it does have a smart
connector on the bottom and then dual USB-Cs on the side. Any signs of, oh, it's firing up. All right, well that'll be the first step. So, it is definitely a
color matched keyboard, decent sized track pad. I don't like the fact, and
this is really minor nitpick, they didn't capitalize the L in lock. So, it's caps lock or caps lock! Look I'll admit, you
put this all together, it looks nice, right? Like that looks like a
Surface style tablet. Is it an OLED? - [Matt] It is. - [Ken] AMOLED.
- [Matt] AMOLED. - Windows 11 pre-installed. I've got a pen, which actually does feel
much more like a pencil because it's got like
flat edges on each side, which I kinda like. - So, it's a Snapdragon 8CX Gen 3. - Oh, it's 8CX, oh, so
the actual, the good one? - [Matt] Yeah. With 16 gigs of RAM, 512 NVMe, and the SSD is user upgradeable through a little hatch in the back. - Basically what we're working with here is a pretty powerful
processor, but the downside is, is that most apps have to run through a compatibility layer, which sort of saps some
of the performance, which then makes this pretty decent chip feel a little bit slow. So, if I wanna spec out a Surface Pro 9, which is quite similar
to this in a lot of ways, we're talking about $2,179. That's a little bit of
a tough pill to swallow. - [Matt] How much do you
think I got this one for? - From a brand I've never
heard of before, 1300 bucks. - [Matt] I've got the
entire bundle for $850. - Wait, I've gone through
this whole segment thing is a, like an overpriced piece of
garbage, and it's actually like less than half the price of
the Surface, wait, really? - [Matt] This is a lesson on not judging a book by its cover. - Do we actually find,
is this actually good? - [Matt] What is this we? - Did Matt actually find something good? - You were ready to
throw this in the trash as as a write off, as
a piece of E-garbage. - Next up we've got a word
from our sponsor, Whatnot. Whatnot is the newest
way to get your hands on collectibles, electronics,
and a whole lot more. Now for me, I know it's a huge thing in
the collectible community especially when it comes to Pokemon, where I may or may not have partaken, but I'll be listing my
own stream on Whatnot on September 21st at 3:00 PM Pacific. I'll have some other time
zone conversions down here, but come hang out with me, I'll be selling a ton of
stuff from previous videos including maybe some Roboraptor
clones, some mystery boxes, as well as a couple of bigger ticket items including an Xbox Series S, Steam Deck, all kinds of really cool stuff. Listings with photos only
tell part of the story. What's great about Whatnot is that you can interact
live with the sellers, think about it like eBay meets Twitch. Joining is really simple. Check out the link of the description to get yourself $10 off
your first purchase, create an account, download the app, and on September 21st I
will see you over at Whatnot for all kinds of shenanigans, randomness, and importantly, some sweet deals. Thank you very much to Whatnot for sponsoring this
episode of Mystery Tech. (upbeat music) - I do wanna tell a story for this. - Okay, go ahead, what's up? - I ordered this a while ago. - [Austin] Okay. - It showed up, it was in my hand. - [Austin] Yes. - I left it on Alex's desk.
- Okay. - Somehow it disappeared from Alex's desk. - Okay. - And we never saw it again.
- Okay. - Two months later.
- [Austin] Yeah. - It arrived in the mail, again. - This sounds a little too spooky, Matt. I don't know what to say
about it except that, oh, is this the chicken nuggie? This is the chicken nuggie controller? - [Matt] Yes.
- All right. So, there was a limited
time deal in McDonald's, I believe just only in China, where they sold you quite literally a chicken nuggie Tetris game. I saw this all over Twitter,
and I was like, I want, oh, it's a boot, it's a boot. - [Matt] You know that the chicken nuggets have, have shapes, right? I just thought you were
associating shapes. - It's a circle. All right, so we've also got a large
number of little stickers. So, this was, if I am correct, was this given away in kids meals? Or as you could buy it with dollars? - [Matt] I wanna say it was like $4. - Oh, wow, okay, got it, I see. So wait, can you rotate the pieces here? - Look at his power stance. - [Austin] What's wrong
with my power stance? - (laughs) Look, look, look. He's twerking, oh my... - I'm choking under the pressure. No! Get it over, get it
over, get it over, no! No! No! No! No! What in the actual (indistinct) This is one gold ass PC. I know a little bit about this, but essentially, on Amazon
there are hundreds of sellers who will try to sell you an
old desktop from Dell or HP and they'll do whatever they
can to get you to buy it because a lot of these things
are essentially E-waste now, and instead of actually E-wasting them, what they'll do is they'll
maybe swap out for like an SSD, maybe throw in a very
low in graphics card. And in this case, fill
it with gold grip tape and call it a day. Doio? Oh sorry, I had upside. - [Matt] Now, the gold
is, before you open it- - [Austin] Doio! - [Matt] The gold is nice.
- Yeah, it's nice. - [Matt] But you know, I,
I think it's kind of boring to go with just one theme. - [Ken] I think it's time to switch it up. - Oh good Lord! What's? (mischievous laugh) Oh my goodness! What in the actual? Mhm, okay, all right.
- [Ken] We switched it up. - It is an immensely heavy
keyboard, can you hear this? (loud thump) Look it is heavy. It weighs about as much as the PC. So, we've got ourselves
a couple of sticks. Oh, okay, immediate problem
here, when you move this, I can literally put my finger inside and like pull it out, like- - [Matt] Okay, stop putting
your finger in things. - [Austin] I will continue to do that. - It only comes with the
board, so we provide- - We need to provide the switch. - Yeah.
- Yeah. We need to provide the switches, we need to provide the key caps. - Wait, so who built it?
- [Matt] Kinsey. - I will say... (clicking sound) Feels quite nice. - [Matt] The real star
here is the Joy-Con. - [Ken] I think it's more
just for the Nintendo fanatic. I would consider those more
of an aesthetic choice. - I would agree with that. This would look great on
your Nintendo themed desk, struggle a little bit with
the practicality of this, but you know what? Who
am I to question fun? - So, what are you missing? - [Austin] A mouse, a
PlayStation themed mouse. - But what are you gonna be doing? Because your hands are
gonna be full with that with those Joy-Cons. - I'm going to be looking for
an explanation into this one. Glass hole, what? Oh, GlassOuse.
- [Ken] Oh god. - [Matt] It is not Glass
hole, it's Glassouse. - [Austin] Glassouse, I knew that. - [Ken] Glass hole is a different thing. - [Austin] Well, it used to be. And this, this is an assistive device. A Glassouse. What an eclectic mix of accessories and items for this segment. - [Matt] Okay, it's really boring to be on one theme all the time. - Great. That's why I switch it up all the time. We'll see the Glassouse, Glassouse. - [Ken] Threw a little
bit of a German in there. - [Matt] Yeah. - [Ken] Like a little,
little, little spice in there. (mumbling) - Threw some sauerkraut on that one, eh? - Let's take a look. Ooh, what? This is not what I thought
it was going to be. - [Ken] Oh wow. - Aah. This is not the glouse
that I was looking for. - There's plenty of
receding forehead there too. - Okay, no. It's not receding? - We could've gotten you
four more of these things. - [Ken] Your hairline is
just like up retreating. - [Matt] I'm not so sure the
mouse is gonna know where to go - [Ken] Yeah, I didn't know
your hairline was French. (laughs) - Welcome my friends to our gaming future. So, we've got a lot of
items to talk about. Let's do it one at a time. Starting out with my glouse. The way this works is that it is going to connect to your device via Bluetooth. Now it works on a wide
variety of different devices including iOS and Android. I'm using it on Windows. And while I'm not entirely
sure the mechanism of how it's tracking, it's
actually fairly straightforward. So as you can see I am using my gaze to move
the mouse cursor around. The downside to this device is that it is not actually really
fully self-contained even though it does have a battery. You actually have a
little 3.5 mil connector on one of the sides that's
actually meant to be used with an additional accessory
to be able to enable clicking. So as far as I can tell
without an additional device, you actually can't click which is why I have the mouse here. But depending on how you want to use this if say it's easier for you to use some adaptive
controller to use audio or to move your cheek or
however you want to do it. You could theoretically
plug that into here and that would pass the
actual click through. - [Matt] So the glouse was
$580 without the attachments. - Uhm, sorry, can we just
pause for one second? This is $580. - [Ken] Yeah, we didn't spend our money. - [Matt] $580 and you can't click it. (laughs) - [Ken] You can't put a price
on accessibility though. - You can. It's $580. I look, I'm gonna try
to be reasonable here. If you need this, you need this. And if this is what allows me
to use a computer, then great. $580 before any attachments
feels borderline egregious. How about our Gold PC? Can
you make me feel better? How much was our gold PC? 152 bucks. All right, let's settle down a little bit. Let's talk about our PC. So this is clearly just some Dell OptiPlex that someone has artfully redesigned. Now I'll say, this one's a little
newer than I expected. So this is a Core i5-4570, which is Haswell which would be 2013. So still roughly a 10 year old system, maybe nine years old
depending on when it came out. But I will say a fairly
competent system at that. And on top of that, we've
got ourselves 16 gigs of RAM and a 500 gig KingFast SSD. The downside though is that it
is using integrated graphics which means that while
this might look neat it is going to be very limited,
like it is a office PC. And the also, the problem is, is that because it is
such a small form factor, you're actually kind of limited in that you only can put in
a half height graphics card that certainly would need to be able to pull just PCI power. So you're buying this for the aesthetic, you're not really buying
it for the performance. Keyboard, I'm a little
bit more positive on. Now, it's a little hard
to justify this keyboard just because it does come in a
bare bones kind of state. - [Matt] So, this was $250. - Yeah.
- Bare bones. - And then probably
another a hundred bucks in switches and key caps. - Yeah. - Let's see how I can
type on this keyboard. (clicking sound) Woo! 94 words per minute. Dude, this keyboard, or
at least the switches that have been chosen here are
actually really quite nice. Dries depo-orter. What is Dries depoorter? Or is that just, okay. Short life. Name, Austin Evans. So the fact that the
product name is short life doesn't make me feel great. I'll admit. So basically you went to
this short life company. You gave them all my info and said, "Hey"- - [Matt] I gave them a shocking
amount of information on you. - Really?
- Yeah. - Okay. This is morbid and slightly spooky town for this episode of Mystery
Tech, but sure, why not? A clock to remind you the life is short. So we've got a micro USB- Oh my God, micro USB kill me now. - [Ken] Life, (laughs) okay, life is short. - So right now, as we
recording this video, I am 30 years old. How long do you think it's gonna give me? - 80.
- I didn't say early 80. - I'll say 87. - 87, I ain't no, no. - We're morbidly obese, how are we- - I am, you guys aren't
like we have erectile. - What? - What?
- That you keep people erect- - That's, that's, that's
a different problem. - Why do you think we
have the pillows guys? (laughs) - From Pat. I like how the guys always
sit on the chairs with pillows on their laps, kindly
blocking their tech boners As they watch Austin open boxes of amazing technological advancements. There's a lot of pillow talk over here. Ooh. - Oh my God, USB-C. - Oh my God, yeah. - VGA. - VGA? - It's got wireless charging. - [Ken] Ah, Windows XP. (laughs) - [Joanna] Can I go home? (beep sound) - Oh my God. I'm 40.3% done with my life. This can also help. - With the, oh, this is the device. Wait. Wait, you guys know about my device. - [Matt] We got you the clock. We also got you the Glock. (clapping) - Have you ever wanted
to really get into a FPS. A first person... - Deviser. - Deviser? Yeah. When you're divising people - That's a, that's a different, that's a- - That's a different
website my friends. (laughs) Oh no. (laughs) All right, see... Ragnok. Born for FPS. Look at this. It's a handle for your device. So Ragnok have created... (laughs) A, it's a handle, right? So, if you're playing a game and you want the real experience,
you can go... (clicking) Which I'm, YouTube for the record this is a self-contained
plastic game controller which has got a little, got
a wheel and it's got a... (clicking sound) - You can say mouse. - I can use this like a
regular vertical mouse which I'm not personally
a huge fan of normally but I know a lot of
people do like using them. So we have a couple of
switches on the bottom. Power On/Power Off and vibrator. - What?
- What? Every time you pull the
trigger of your device it vibrates in your hand. Can you hear this? (buzzing sound) This is an interesting device. So how much is the Ragnok device? - [Matt] $69. - (laughs) Nice. How much is the, Austin
Evans has a short life clock? - [Alex] 165 euros, which is roughly $180. - The Ragnok, I kind of get it's not great, but it's, it's decent. It's, it's all right. I, I, I, I can kind of get behind it. I wish it's a little bit better. This feels like a novelty that I could almost
get behind but I can't. The fact that there's no battery
is really, really annoying. I wanna set this thing on a shelf and watch it and go, "Ha-ha",
every once in a while. The thing is this aesthetically
looks nice until you realize that this cable's always
plugged into the side of it. Like, look, look. That's like the best I could do. I'm gonna use my Ragnok on it. Oh good lord. What? It's been a while since
an item hit the desk that was quite this big. This is a 44 pound SmartDrop 
secure delivery box. I'm not gonna lie. My first thought with this is if someone cares about
their packages so much that they've got a giant
safe on their front door, I would just want the safe. Not that I would be a filthy porch pirate plundering people's personal packages. Oh no. This is my assembly guide. I regret my decision. - Oh, it doesn't come assembled? - No. You have to build the box. - Oh.
- It is... A... 11 step process to build your box. Wait, how much is this stupid thing? - [Matt] It normally is $400. Which I'm assuming is what we paid for it. - Uh-huh. - [Matt] But it's on Amazon now for $200. - People could steal like
five or six of my packages and I would still be net negative
compared to this package. Look at it. Look at it. Also, the pin is 1, 2, 3, 4,
that there's only four numbers. So you could probably just sit there and go 1, 2, 3, 4, 2, 1. - [Ken] Well, you'd be on someone's porch for a long time though. - [Matt] It's roughly 64 combinations. - Who wants to help me build this thing? - Oh, we're actually.
- Oh, well we have a thing. - Yeah, I have to. - We're-
- Meet. - We're gonna go see the Jonas Brothers. - Oh wow. So much fun. - Got any packages? So I will say, even though it's annoying that you have to build this,
it actually wasn't too bad. It took two of us, what? 15 minutes to build it. It's very straightforward. I have now gone through the process of pairing it with the app. You do need to pair it with the Eufy app. It currently is connecting. And theoretically what this will do is allow me to remotely control it, set the password, all that kinda stuff. But also it does have a camera, so it will kind of double
as like a doorbell camera. I find it to be a little bit cumbersome just because look at
how big this thing is. Like imagine putting that on your porch like that's gonna take up the whole thing. - But it advertises that
it can fit 99% of packages. - But you know what it won't fit? Your, the HOA's tolerance
for it being on your porch. Okay. Huh? Oh, this looks surprisingly easy actually. Mm. I No. Oh. Oh, we did it boys. Okay - I see.
- We can go home. - I see some like blinking
light in here, that's not good. - Wait, is there really a light in there? - Yeah, there's a blinking blue light because it's trying to sync right now. - Oh, that's funny. - It's very dark. - I gotcha, hold on. There you go. Surprise! - It's me! Your Amazon delivery driver! Forgot me! I don't think this is it. (alarming sound) Apparently has an alarm. - So do you wanna change
your tone a little bit? Who's stealing a thing now? - Let's just steal the box. Let's steal the box, let's
steal, let's go, let's go. They'll never see us coming. Alright, we're gonna steal the box. - Now, we stealing packages. - Oh, no. - Go, go, go, go, go, go, go.
- Go, go, go, go, go, go, go. (upbeat music) - And don't forget that I'll
be going live on Whatnot on September 21st at 3:00 PM Pacific Time. See you there, my friends.