TSMC recently released their Q4 2020 quarterly 
financial report. The results were quite good. TSMC has become one of the world's most profitable 
companies. In 2020, the company generated net   income of something in the neighborhood of $17.5 
billion (depending on the USD-TWD exchange rate).   TSMC generated more 2020 profit than Wal-mart 
or Tencent and roughly as much as Facebook. Its   products make 53% gross margin, which matches 
Intel's reported 53% gross margin in Q3 2020.   Though Intel has a lot of moving parts and 
that probably brings things down a bit. But the big surprise was not the profit but TSMC's 
company guidance for Q1 2021 capital expenditure.   Capital expenditure represents expenses 
spent on expanding overall capacity   and upgrading manufacturing 
technologies. This number is a   long term leading indicator of where 
TSMC believes the market is to be. In 2020, TSMC spent $17.2 
billion in capital expenditures.   This is a billion over the $15-16 billion 
range that they had projected back in 2019.   They had raised it midway through the year. 
The $17 billion was a record for the company. Analysts had expected the company to announce 
$20 billion of capital expenditure for 2021.   It would roll over the $17 billion from 2020 
and add the capital for the Arizona plant.   TSMC had earlier announced in November 
2020 that they were going to build a   small N5 fab in Arizona. The board 
allocated some $3.5 billion for this. Well, this $20 billion in retrospect 
was far too little. For 2021,   the company announced that that they will spend 
something in the range of $25 to 28 billion. A lot of words have been spilled on the internet, 
trying to figure out why the jump in capital   expenditure. Right now I am just trying to 
grapple with the sheer size of the number. $25 billion, the lower end of that number, 
would represent as much revenue as Mondelez,   the Oreos maker and number 117 
on the Fortune 500. It would   be more than Tesla's 2019 fiscal year 
revenues ($24.5 billion). $28 billion   would be the size of Starbucks ($26.5 
billion) or ViacomCBS ($27.8 billion). In terms of sheer numbers, TSMC’s budget 
rivals capital expenditures from tech   giants and telecoms. That includes 
Verizon ($17.9 billion) and Google   ($25 billion). Anytime you’re building big 
data centers and installing new networks,   you are spending billions of dollars on building 
up things and assets. Oil and energy companies   like Exxon ($25 billion) and Royal Dutch 
Shell ($20-29 billion) are also peers. Amazon has a demonstrably 
higher budget with $32 billion.   But Amazon is also scaling up immensely as it 
tries to dominate the e-commerce and cloud spaces. For me, I think you don't spend $25-28 billion   just for one reason alone. There 
must be a multitude of reasons. The first has to do with demand from 
the unprecedented economic environment.   The first wave led to everyone shutting 
down and the economy crashing hard - but   then it came roaring back faster 
than people thought was possible. At the same time, the work from home 
economy came back harder than ever   after the summer ended and 
the pandemic surged. You need   chips to fuel all those cloud software 
services connecting today's companies. Another source of demand comes from 
your car. On the earnings call,   TSMC mentioned the automotive industry, where 
revenue surged 27% from the previous year.   Your car uses a surprisingly high 
number of chips to help it operate.   The Wall Street Journal recently ran an 
article noticing that a chip shortage   in the automotive industry has caused some 
factories to wait for supply to replenish. Automotive, financial stimulus, a new 
generation of video game consoles,   lockdowns from the pandemic's second surge. 
In addition, we have chip demand stemming   from the new crypto surge and the ongoing 5G 
transition. It's all insanity and craziness. The second big reason to really push 
hard has to do with competition. TSMC   is dealing with a challenger unlike 
few others that it has gone up against.   Samsung Foundry, part of Samsung Electronics   is making a real push into the market - 
capturing reliable business as a second supplier. The Korean giant is estimated to spend some 
$26 billion in capital expenditures for   its own semiconductor business in 2020. There 
is the caveat that Samsung is also the world's   dominant memory maker and it is assumed that 
a vast majority of that capital is going into   reinforcing that business. Not all of that 
can be leveraged for making logic chips.   But that is a lot of money 
regardless. It needs a response. But Samsung is really swinging for the 
fences. For its cutting edge 5 nm process,   the company has collected customers like Ambarella 
(the image sensor maker and supplier to Hikvision)   and Qualcomm. They have a big Austin semiconductor 
foundry and are considering a $10 billion Texas   investment, similar to Taiwan's Arizona 
facility, so to win more American clients. And then there is the anticipation that 
Samsung is seeking to implement a brand   new semiconductor structure for its next 
generation 3 nanometer node; something   called "Gate All Around". TSMC's N3 will not be 
using this structure, and for this reason Samsung   has been cited as seizing the technology crown 
upon the release of that 3 nanometer process. Well, since we have already touched on the 
topic, let us talk about N3 and beyond. TSMC's sexiest, most cutting edge process 
is N5 - the one that Apple calls in its   marketing 5 nanometers. This process entered 
high volume manufacturing in 2Q 2020 at Fab   18 in Tainan. Through 2020, it was majority 
booked by Apple for its A14 and M1 chips. I talked about this in another video. But 
to match Apple's annual iPhone cadence,   TSMC has a half-step strategy. They debut a new 
variant of their node every year. For instance,   N5 for the A14 this year. Next year, they will make refinements and 
release a "plus" version. A15 will be made   on that N5+. The year after that, 
N5+ then evolves into an N4 process,   which means further refinements while 
maintaining backwards compatibility.   Apple moves on to the next major 
step - an entirely new node, N3. This follows what TSMC did with N7, which 
evolved into N7+ and then N6 after that.   It allows customers to deliver improved product 
year over year without much additional work. As mentioned, the next big jump 
from N5 is N3, colloquially called   3 nanometers. And like I mentioned 
earlier, it will stay with the same   FinFet device architecture that helped 
TSMC deliver the last few generations. I have seen some rumors floating 
around that N3 was going to be delayed.   There was a Digitimes report that said that N3 
was being particularly challenging for both TSMC   and Samsung. And that leaves some risk that 
the Apple A16 might not be fabbed on N3. If   that is the case, the backup plan would 
probably be to use the evolved N4 node. But during the conference call, 
management says that N3 is on track.   The Digitimes report might be wrong. It 
likely is considering their track record. But it can also be that TSMC is trying to make 
up for the lost time with a dump truck of money.   TSMC hasn’t missed a deadline for 
a node delivery in many years.   So they are pushing super hard to hit that 2022 
high volume deadline for the iPhone launch. As for what happens after N3, the future is 
hazy. At the TSMC Technology Symposium in   September 2020, the company gave a brief 
look at the future roadmap beyond N3.   N2 appears to be the next big node. 
The company appears to be in the early   stages of a massive N2 Fab in Hsinchu. 
That is going to cost a lot of money. A lot of financial analysts were watching this. 
Intel CEO Bob Swan had said that the company   would look at the possibility of outsourcing its 
high end logic chips to a third party foundry   like TSMC or Samsung. Such a decision would be 
announced at the Q4 earnings call in Jan 2021. There were a lot of smoke signals coming up 
that Intel would be indeed signing on to such   an outsourcing agreement. The stock market 
ran up TSMC's stock price in anticipation of   it happening. Bloomberg ran an article saying that 
TSMC and Intel had been in talks, with no result. Then Bob Swan stepped down and new CEO Pat 
Gelsinger took up the seat. Intel's first CTO,   Gelsinger has an engineering background and in the   Q4 call emphasized Intel's commitment 
to its engineering and manufacturing: > “I am confident that the majority of 
our 2023 products will be manufactured   internally ... At the same time, given the 
breadth of our portfolio, it’s likely that   we will expand our use of external foundries 
for certain technologies and products.” The stock fell 9%. An interesting response by the 
market. There is a real argument for semiconductor   foundry work to be done on American soil. One can 
say that the market is ignoring those national   security arguments and being short term. But 
one can also care for those arguments and just   instead be saying they don't think Intel 
should be the company leading that charge. Putting those questions aside, the Intel and 
TSMC relationship is going to put itself on   hold for a little bit as management reviews 
the status of their 7 nanometers process   (roughly equivalent to TSMC's N5). Tim Culpan for Bloomberg wrote an 
analysis of the results that I liked.   In it, he cites one reason why TSMC would move 
so aggressively with the capital expenditure   would be to corner the market 
and lock in supplier agreements. Tactics like this would be taking a page out of 
the Apple supply chain handbook. Apple leverages   its cash reserves and size to secure supply for 
its products ahead of practically everyone else.   That is why you were able to buy the new iPhones 
this holiday season with decent wait times   while other consumer electronics companies 
like Sony struggled to fulfill demand.   And Apple sells something like 75 million 
units a quarter during the holidays. I've touched on TSMC's business tactics in 
prior videos I've done on Chartered and SMIC. My   feeling coming out of that is that they will not 
hesitate to throw their weight around. Like Apple,   they are going to try to muscle 
their way to the front of the line   so to get whatever supplies 
they need to fulfill demand. And based on supplier ASML’s recent quarterly 
earnings call, TSMC's supply chain right now   seems to be in a bit of a dizzy spin. ASML 
- TSMC's critical EUV supplier - is only   capable of delivering a limited number of said EUV 
machines in a single year. And its big customers'   projections had moved around a lot throughout 
2020 - causing a backup in the supply chain. ASML's CEO and president 
Peter Wennik said in the call: > I think our capacity ... in the Netherlands, in 
Veldhoven, is to build 50 systems ... Now we have   to build those systems out of modules, which 
we don't produce. It's in the supply chain ... He then talks about two customers 
moving their spend around. > What happened last year in Q2 and Q3 ... 
our key foundry customer came back and said,   listen, our key customer 
for N3 is now blacklisted.   So we cannot ship. So we need to adjust 
our 2021 outlook for EUV systems. Peter is probably referring to TSMC and 
Huawei/HiSilicon. Huawei has long been a leading   edge customer alongside Apple. They got banned 
from using EUV tech by the Trump administration. > Which was followed by another customer and said,   well, we're going to delay the roadmap ... 
pushed back one year, which actually led   to a situation where we actually reduced 
the number of planned system 2021 for EUV This customer is probably Intel, and 
it matches up with how Intel in July   2020 announced that their 7 nm process 
(which uses EUV) got delayed 6 months. But at some point between Q2 2020 and Q4 
2020, TSMC and the rest of the foundry   industry realizes that they are way 
under capacity. Like I said earlier,   astounding demand in everything that 
has to do with semiconductor chips. So TSMC and I presume other foundries 
in the industry go back to ASML to put   those orders back on the menu. But ASML 
can't just ramp up on demand because just   seven or eight months earlier they told 
their entire supply chain to ramp down. Peter did hint that Intel's delay let them 
transfer Intel's EUV orders over to TSMC and   Samsung. Despite that, my guess is that for the 
next few quarters (per the CEO there is about 20   months between module production 
and EUV tool installation),   EUV machine supply is going to be super tight. Project this out to the rest of the 
foundry supply chain - it's not just   ASML, you know - and you get the feeling of a 
massive oil tanker trying to turn on a dime. You can get things done right, done fast, or 
done cheap. Pick two out of the three. TSMC   is apparently picking done right and done fast. 
Damn the cost, they're going to buy everything. For what it is worth, Wennik warns us about the 
folly of using those TSMC capital expenditures   to project ASML's 2021 revenue. This is 
due to the supply issues mentioned above: > Yes. TSMC gave a range, $25 billion to $28 
billion. Hey, great. We plan our business   based on what they ask us. And as you know, 
TSMC has been asking us in 2020, on several   occasions to ship very different numbers for 
2021 ... So I don't think you can draw any   direct conclusion from the TSMC capex numbers. 
Directionally, yes, but not in absolute terms. I am reminded of a story 
published back in April 2001   when Morris Chang still ran the 
company as its founder and CEO.   In it, TSMC was a few generations behind 
Intel but doing their best to catch up. 2001 is a year after the tech bubble crash 
and the electronics space in general was   suffering. But regardless, TSMC is pushing 
ahead with investments. This means not only   building more foundries but also investing 
in being able to provide better services to   their customers. Chang saw an opportunity 
and poured in the money to service it. I get the sense that TSMC is a company that likes 
to take big swings at things. Unlike Chartered   and SMIC, they have the power of the purse and 
they leverage it like few other companies can.   A famous investor once said that their 
entire job is to stand at the batter's box   and wait for a fat pitch that they can swing at 
as hard as they can. Hit one big home run and it   does not matter that you missed a bunch of little 
things. I think TSMC thinks a fat pitch is coming.