- Gazelle promises to not only be your one stop shop to sell your old tech, but also to buy lightly refurbished stuff. Now, Gazelle's been around forever, but today I'm going to not only
buy some stuff from Gazelle, but I'm also gonna sell them a couple of bits of my tech to see exactly what the
trade-in process is like. Sell your device in minutes. So they take iPhones, Samsungs, Google Phones, iPads, and MacBooks. So, I have two devices here
that I'm willing to sell them. I have an iPhone 11 and a Galaxy S21. Okay, cool. So let's go
through the process, shall we? What is the overall cosmetic condition? I would say lightly used. Not quite flawless. I'd say it's actually not far away, 'cause it's really quite good. But there's a couple of very light scuffs. So let's see what they'll give us. Alright, my Gazelle offer is $62. (Alex laughing) What happens if I go
flawless? What does that do? Oh my god. Flawless gives you $2 more. So there's no version of an S21 they're gonna pay any money for. Wow, that's not good. So with the iPhone, it
does fully function. The biggest downside with this phone is that it is in a little bit
rougher of cosmetic shape. Overall condition, I would
say scratched or scuffed. The answer is $107! So I think what we're learning here is that Gazelle like iPhones
and don't like Samsungs. That sounds like it. Do I want a check, PayPal,
or Amazon gift card? Well I can't take a check. (bell ringing) Pierre Luigi doesn't cash checks. And Pierre Luigi doesn't
have a PayPal account. But I could use an Amazon gift card. While we're waiting for that, I wanna place an order for
some new tech from Gazelle to see exactly what the other end of this experience is like. Can I get an unlocked iPhone, like say XR, but in excellent condition? What would that look- Two hundred and sixty- Two hundred and sixty (stuttering)- (groaning) That hurts.
That's just disgusting. I'll tell you, obviously the
iPhones are the best sellers, but man, these deals are pretty rough. Okay, so Google Pixel 7A, man... (sighs) They don't even
have photos of these things. Photos coming soon. If you're selling a phone, you couldn't literally go and download a stock photo of a Google Pixel. Oh my God. I consistently am seeing prices on Gazelle be 10% higher than most
of the competition. And the problem is, is that the Gazelle sort of like, experience is not as good. You're not gonna get the warranty, you're not necessarily getting
an amazing return policy. It's decent, it matches most other people. But, if I'm gonna be paying more than somewhere like Back Market and I'm gonna be getting less, even if these conditions
are in great shape, that's a tough sell man. That's a tough sell. S21. Okay, well you know at
least I will say something. They actually are selling better, they've got better deals on the S21s. Still though, I don't know
if it's super competitive and that's it? Wait, they don't sell any Z Flips!? Aw, I can't buy another Z Flip. There we go. We got some Z Flips. Let's get a Z Flip3. Oh no, that's Z Fold3. Uh-oh. Actually should we, yeah, let's do it. You know what? We always do Z Flips. Let's actually try to get a
Z Fold and see how that is. So with that, I'm going
to place this order to purchase these devices from Gazelle, and I'm also at the same time
going to ship in my trade-ins to see exactly if Gazelle is worth it or whether I'm going to turn to a lion and devour a Gazelle on
the plains of the savanna. I didn't really think that one through. And so, it is time to send
our phones to Gazelle. Now, we had some difficulties
getting to this point. So, when I went to order
the items for this video, I had a problem. American Express gave me a fraud warning. Not all that uncommon. We ordered a lot of sus things. I approved it, no big deal. The charge went through, and
then Gazelle canceled my order and I hit their customer service up and asked what was going on
and see if they could help me. And they said "Sorry, we can't help you." Basically, the order was sus
and they didn't wanna touch it. I tried to order again, and that order also
immediately got canceled. They charged my card and they gave me a refund
within like five minutes. So, third time being the charm, I asked Matt to order the exact same items using his credit card and that order seems to have gone through. So, while we wait for
our new items to show up, let's go ahead and package up our iPhone 11 and Galaxy S21, shall we? Wait? Is this... That's it? Am I supposed to put two phones in here? So it's a little lumpy, but soon hopefully I
will give you an update on not only the process
of trading our devices in, but hopefully, in the next couple of days, our brand new Gazelle refurbished stuff will be here in the studio. So we're just about to
shoot another video, when I got the emails from Gazelle. They have received my phones
and have given me my orders. So let's see what we've got. "Hi Pierre. When we checked out
your iPhone 11 Unlocked, we found some conditions that affected the value of your item. Scratches; we found the device has more than the acceptable
amount of scratches. Because of this, we are
adjusting your offer to $86." They changed it from $107
to $86 because of scratches? What the hell? "You identified your
gadget as S21 Unlocked but is actually an S21 Locked to AT&T." No it's not. So they knocked my value on
the S21 from $62 down to $50. I guess I'll give them that. I'd never tried to put
another SIM card in it, so maybe it was locked. I'm gonna take the deal, I'm gonna let them
knock off all the money, 'cause they feel like it. But, when I get my new items from Gazelle, they better be in minty fresh condition, or I am gonna be a real grumpy boy, here. Let's see what we've got from Gazelle. I'll tell you, now that
we finally have our box. It's very like, weirdly weighted. Like, it's like, it feels that there's like two things on the bottom. Well, there's your problem. You got a bunch of little
boxes on the bottom, which is rattling around, and you have a little bit of paper on top. Boy, I am not feeling great about this. Okay, our first item is our Galaxy Z Fold. Now they say grade B here. Remind me again, what condition
did I purchase this in? - [Alex] This was supposed
to be in good condition. - [Austin] Okay, I guess B is good. - [Alex] The screens of these devices are in very good condition. There are light scuffs or nicks that do not affect
functionality of the phone. - So the outer display is good, but because it's a Z Fold, there's a lot of screens
and cameras to check here. So, check the hinge. Definitely, it's gotten dropped. So there's some scuffing on
the hinge here on the side, but cosmetic, and in fact,
it's actually quite smooth, so you're really not even gonna feel that. Alright, let's see what we got. (tense music) Ooh, well it didn't make a good noise. (phone clacking) So it does not have the
original screen protector on it, which is a little bit unfortunate, 'cause you definitely don't want to take off that screen protector. It's pretty important. That being said though, well, let's see if we can fire it up. I'm gonna give them a pretty solid grade for the screen quality. I'm seeing nothing but little
bits of like, you know, dirt and debris, but like you know, nothing that you wouldn't have just from being inside a cardboard box. Alright, you know I'm
feeling okay about this. Maybe I was a little too harsh on Gazelle. - [Alex] Yeah, but it did cost a lot. It cost us $500. - [Austin] Was it $500 even? - [Alex] It was like $499.99, basically. - So I'm actually gonna spend a little bit of time using this Z Fold, see if any kind of problems creep up, or if spending $500 on a giant foldy boy is actually a good idea. So the cool thing about this is that I can use the much
better rear facing cameras with a nice preview here if I wanna do a little bit of vlogging. So this is what the ultra wide looks like, but I can easily just
tap over, go into the 1X, which personally is going
to look a whole lot better. Or, if you wanna be a complete lunatic, you can go all the way up to 2X and get a very, very zoomed in photo. Now I'll tell you, that
this definitely gets heavy if you're trying to vlog
with it for a little while. But it really just kind of goes to show the versatility of this form factor. It's one of those things where
you could probably buy this, use it for a little while, decide if you wanna upgrade to
the Z Fold6 in a few months, or just save your money and
flip it back to Gazelle for $73. Okay, still salty. Sorry. I totally understand why someone would be interested in a Z Fold. Just not me, 'cause Z Flip's better. (box rattling) Next up, we got something that's
real rattly in here. Okay. Oh, it's my iPad mini. They just don't have a small box for it so it just rattles around
like absolute crazy. So, this is our iPad Mini 4. So, it is showing that it is
64 gig, unlocked, with LTE and it has 94% battery health,
which is also pretty good. Now this one is also grade B, which I'm assuming means
it is in good condition. - [Alex] Correct. - Okay, lovely. Now, I'm curious 'cause I have not used the
iPad Mini 4 in quite a while. So this is the older school design. So it does still have the home button. We do have some quite noticeable
scratches on the back, not sure you can see on camera, but like, they're quite deep. Now, you can feel them a
little bit. It's not terrible. (Austin sniffing) Smells clean. Do you know what year
the iPad Mini 4 came out? 'Cause it's still supported
by iPadOS, right? - [Alex] It came out at the end of 2015. - iPad Mini 4? - [Alex] iPad Mini 4. - I totally thought that this was an iPad
from like 2019 or 2020. Not 2015. Huh. So, you know, I'm gonna
guess this probably will not still be supported, huh? (laughs) Whoops. Well. But well, here, here, here. It'll make me feel better. It was really affordable, right? - [Alex] Yeah, I will admit that it was pretty affordable at $150. - Oh that's actually not very good. - [Alex] (laughs) I didn't
say it was an amazing deal. I just said- - I thought that that was a good deal considering that this was
like a 4, 5-year-old iPad, not a 9-year-old. (both laughing) Damn you Apple, why do you keep the same design for a decade!? You confused me. I could've
just Googled this but I didn't. I guess, let me set this up and see what I can still do with this iPad that might be a little outta date. So, iPad Mini 4. So, I've got this guy all
set up, fully up to date. It is unfortunately only on iPadOS 15, so it's a couple generations behind. And I have some thoughts. The power button, very sticky. And by very sticky, I
mean most of the time it clicks this horrible like... (button clicking) It works okay fine, and then you leave it
alone for like a minute and it just smashes, like... (button clicking) You hear that? Like every time you click
it, it sounds different. Like, the button's definitely
not in great shape. Now, $150 is a little expensive, right? I think that for that kind of money you could spend just a
little bit more money and get an iPad Mini 5, which is almost the exact same, but again has a several
year newer processor, importantly with full
support for iPadOS, still. And that will be my recommendation. As far as a little device to watch videos and play around with, like honestly, it's not bad. It definitely feels slow. And while you can do
multitasking, so I'll show you, it will do the split screen
multitasking if you try it. There we go. It'll do it eventually. Just give it a minute. If you too would like to see me exclusively make YouTube
Shorts from the iPad Mini 4, drop a like, and I'll definitely do that. - You're also most
definitely in frame. (laughs) Okay, Grandpa. (laughs) - Is this thing on? Is this thing on? - [Ken] You're still
probably not in frame. (both laughing) - Next up, we have an iPhone XR in Coral. Carl! Carl! I'm trying to make jokes that were relevant when
this phone came out. (both laughing) Grade C condition, uh-oh,
that's the bad condition. What do they call Grade C? - [Alex] They call it fair. - [Austin] So could you
gimme a little refresher on what they consider fair
before I look at this? 'Cause I think they
say some scuffs, right? It's kind of normal. - [Alex] Yeah, you know
what, it's a little confusing because their definition is, the screens of these devices
are in good condition, even though they call it fair. There is some wear and tear that does not affect functionality of the phone. These devices have been priced at the lowest amount possible, I guess, to help you save money on a
phone in great working order. - Okay. Alright, well let's
take a look at this thing. Oh boy, okay, well they've
got some scratches, but, oh no, those are real scratches. You see that?
- Oh yeah, that big gash. - So there's a very deep
scratch from left to right here and there's some lighter
scratches from top to bottom. This is definitely,
with that deep scratch, a grade lower than the good items that we've already taken a look at. I mean, considering this is the cheapest version of
this phone that they sell, that one scratch, while it's annoying, considering that we saved some money on it, it's not too crazy. So, battery health is 86%. You know what? That's fine. Considering how old this
device is, that's reasonable. How much was our 64 gig Coral
iPhone XR in fair condition? - [Alex] Well, that's a
real pretty color, huh? - It is. It's a great
budget color, I would say. - [Alex] Well it was $165. (crickets chirping) - $65. That's a great deal. Wow. - [Alex] No, no, no. $165. - I'm gonna just check
Back Market real quick. I'm feeling it. - [Alex] No, no, don't do that. - I'm gonna do it.
- Don't do that. - I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna
go Back Market right now. Well actually, hold on a second. Back Market has the
iPhone XR starting $157. So that's actually almost the exact same. Now, of course, the difference is Back Market does offer
the one year warranty, which is not something that Gazelle has. So how do we judge the XR from Gazelle? It's not maybe the
greatest deal in the world. I actually give Gazelle
a thumbs up on this one. I think it's actually a pretty clear cut. This is not overpriced. It is in good condition, considering, you know, what
we actually paid for it. So, not bad if you want some Carl energy. Next up we've got, so this is the Pixel 7A, the Google Pixel 7A, as
were recording this video, is still the most recent
version of the A line. Now, by the time you watch this, we're right about probably
see a new Pixel 8A, but whatever, like, very modern phone, more modern than any of the other devices we've gotten from Gazelle. So let's take a look here. Now, this one is listed
in grade A condition, which I believe is, what do
they call it, good or excellent? - [Alex] Excellent. - Excellent condition. Can you refresh me on what excellent condition should entail? - [Alex] They actually don't
give that much information. - Of course they don't. - [Alex] The information they give you is, the best condition Gazelle has to offer. The screen and body of these devices are an excellent condition, so. - Okay, now there are a
couple of little scratches on the bottom of the back of the Pixel. Certainly a little bit of wear. It looks like it was in a case, honestly. I think this should qualify for excellent. I think I'm okay with that. It's not perfect, but I mean, I think
this is the kind of wear that you would get if you get a Pixel and you put it in a case for six months. It's just a little bit of
scuffing on that very bottom. Oh, I just found some scratches. Yeah, there's some scratches right here on the top right of the display. I couldn't see them until
I looked a little closer. That's a little borderline
for excellent, actually. Okay, well I'm sure it was
a great deal though, right? What you got? - [Alex] So brand new direct from Google. - Wait, the original price is $500. Okay, let's just start.
$500 we're up here. Okay. - [Alex] Yes, the original price was $500 when it was first released. - Great price. - [Alex] Right now it's on sale for $350. And we bought it from
Gazelle at excellent, I mean, I guess borderline
excellent condition, - [Austin] Yeah, not excellent. - [Alex] For $360. - Ah! Well (duck quaking). Okay. Well, then. (Austin laughing) How much, outta curiosity,
is the good condition? 'Cause I don't, this is not
excellent. This is good. - [Alex] So, the good pricing is $305. - Wait, hold on a second. It is $360 for excellent
and $305 for good? This is not an excellent condition. This is in good condition. It's not terrible, but it's very much in
the same sort of realm as something like the Z Fold or something like the iPad, both of which I would definitely
qualify as good condition. This is a tough one, because we paid too much
money for this phone. There is no doubt about that. At the end of the day, I don't think you should really treat
Gazelle as a great place to buy or necessarily sell your electronics. To me, Gazelle, if they
really want to be in the game, they need to get a little
bit more aggressive. We need more options and certainly, we
shouldn't have this whole excellent condition thing when there's scratching on the screen. That's just a big no go. And the prices, I think, across the board, are just a little bit too high. So while Gazelle might
be an OG in the space, it's not it. It's not it. It's not it. What do you think about Gazelle? Let me know when the comments below. Make sure to subscribe to the channel and ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling button. And if you'll excuse me, I'm gonna go lurk in some shady alleys looking for a Back Market Gazelle eBay. - [Alex] What? - Amazon. - [Alex] I think we broke him. - Refurbished. - Oh yep. We broke him.
- Refurbished. - Gazelle broke him.
- Refurbished. - Gazelle broke him.
- Refurbished. Refurbished! Refurbished! - [Alex] Yeah, that last one was too much. - I can only get scammed so many times before I just finally break. And I think today is the day. I think I'm just done. I think I gotta like
take a break and like... - [Joanna] Just buy new tech. - You can buy new tech? - [Joanna] Mm-hmm.
Apparently it's cheaper. (all laughing) (relaxed music)