Freight transportation is an absolutely essential
part of modern life. Maintaining the complex supply chains of raw
materials to finished goods requires a seemingly endless amount of hustle and bustle. Millions of tons of freight are moved each
day, mainly on trucks and trains. But, “shipping” got its name for a reason,
and we still use ships to move a lot of our stuff. One of the main reasons is that it’s efficient. In fact, moving a ton of goods the same distance
on a boat takes roughly half the amount of energy than it would by train and roughly
a fifth of the energy it would take on a truck. You can prove this to yourself pretty easily. Even heavy stuff is practically effortless
to move around once it’s floating on water. Of course, shipping by waterway also has its
limitations. It’s slow (for one) and not every place
that needs goods is accessible by boat. We’ve overcome this obstacle somewhat through
the use of constructed waterways, or canals. Canals and shipping are described in the earliest
works of written history. But there’s another limitation more difficult
to surmount. Water is self-leveling. Unlike roads or rail, you can’t lay water
up on a slope to get up or down a hill. Luckily, we have a solution to this problem. It may seem simple at first glance, but there
is a lot of fascinating complexity to getting boats up and down within a river or canal. Hey I’m Grady and this is Practical Engineering. On today’s episode, we’re talking about
locks for navigation. The efficiency of water transportation has
a surprising amount to do with how the world looks today. Nearly every major city across the globe is
located on a waterway accessible by shipping traffic. Waterway transportation is weaved into the
history of just about everything. So, it’s no surprise that, even since thousands
of years ago, humans have sought to bring access by boat to areas otherwise inaccessible. But, creating waterways navigable by boats
isn’t as simple as digging a ditch. Unlike the open sea, the endless and uncluttered
surface of water, land has obstructions and obstacles. The topography dips and rises, rivers and
ponds get in the way, and manmade infrastructure like cities, roads, and utilities impede otherwise
unhindered paths from point A to point B. The quintessential example of this is the
Panama Canal: the famous cut through that narrow Isthmus saving ships the lengthy and
dangerous trip around Cape Horn. At scale, this seems pretty straightforward
- just cut a ditch from the Atlantic to the Pacific. But the details of what is one of the largest
civil engineering projects of the modern world are more complex. One of the most important of those details
is that the majority of the Panama Canal isn’t at sea level, but actually 26 meters or 85
feet higher. This is due to sheer practicality. Construction of the Canal was already one
of the largest excavation projects in history. Keeping boats at sea level would require cutting,
at a minimum, an 85-foot-deep canyon through the peninsula involving millions and millions
of tons of extra earthwork that would be completely infeasible. So, rather than cutting the channel deeper,
we instead raise the boats up from sea level on one side and lower them back down on the
other. And we do this using locks, an ingenious and
ancient technology that has made possible navigation on canals and waterways that otherwise
could never have existed. The way a lock works is dead simple. And of course I have a little demonstration
here to make this more intuitive. For a boat going up, it first enters the empty
lock. The lower gate is closed. Then water from above is allowed to fill the
lock. This is usually done through a smaller gate
or a dedicated plumbing system, but I’m just cracking the upper gate open. Once the level in the lock reaches the correct
height, the upper gate can be fully opened, and the boat can continue on its way. Going down follows the same steps in reverse. The boat enters the full lock. The upper gate is closed, and the water in
the lock is allowed to drain. Again, I’m just cracking the gate in the
demo, but this is often done through a slightly more sophisticated way in the real world. Once the lock is drained, the lower gate can
be fully opened, and the boat can continue on. I hope you see the genius of this system. It’s a completely reversible lift system
that, in its simplest form, requires no external source of power to work… except for the
water itself. One thing to notice about a lock is that even
though boats can move through in both directions, water only moves through in one . The lock
always fills from the upper canal and always drains to the lower canal. This is because… gravity. Hopefully that’s obvious. But, it’s important to realize that even
though we’re not using pumps, the energy required to raise and lower boats through
a lock isn’t necessarily “free”. Each time the lock is operated, you lose a
“lockful” of water downstream. And sometimes that matters. Canals aren’t full of limitless water, and
if there is a lot of traffic or the locks are particularly large, this could mean losing
millions of liters of water per day. On large rivers, it’s usually not enough
to worry about, but in some cases this could cause a canal or reservoir to go completely
dry. So, canals that use locks need some way to
replenish the lost water or at least limit how much water is lost each cycle. What if there was a way to save the water
used to fill the lock and reuse it? On the Panama Canal, the locks use water from
Gatun Lake, a critical source of drinking water for the country. During periods of drought, water supply becomes
a serious issue. That’s why, when the canal was expanded
in 2016, the new locks included water saving basins. Like the locks themselves, these basins are
an extremely simple and yet an ingenious way to limit the amount of water lost each time
the locks are filled. Let me show you how this works. On my demo, instead of draining the lock into
the downstream canal, I can drain it partially into a nearby reservoir. Then, when the time comes to fill the lock,
I can recycle the water from the basin, also called a side pond, to partially raise the
level. Of course, I still need to use water from
the upper canal to fully fill the lock, but it’s still less water than I would have
otherwise used. In fact, if the water saving basin is the
same area as the lock, you can save exactly one third of the water. The reason, again, is gravity. Water doesn’t flow uphill - it has to always
be going down. To save water, you need a volume within the
lock for it to come from, a lower volume for it to drain to and wait in the side pond,
and finally an even lower volume for the saved water to go within the lock. That means the best you can do with a single
basin is to save a third of the water that would otherwise be lost. But, it’s possible to do better than this. One option is to have the water saving basin
have a larger area. Imagine an infinitely large basin such that
no matter how much water drains into it, its level never rises. In this case, you could drain the upper half
of the volume of the lock into the side pond, and then use that water to fill the lower
half of the lock on the way up. So, the area of the basin is important, with
a larger area providing a greater water-saving benefit. The other way we can do better is to have
more basins. Notice on the diagram that the bottom two
volume divisions are lost each cycle. When the lock drains, each volume division
moves from the lock to the side pond one division below, except for the bottom two divisions
which are lost downstream. That water can’t be stored in a side pond
because the pond would have to be at or below the bottom of the lock. And when the lock is filled, each side pond
fills the volume of the lock again one division lower. The top two divisions can’t be filled from
a side pond, so they are filled from the upper canal. It’s pretty easy to see why more basins
equals smaller divisions and why that equals less water lost for each cycle. Of course, for both the number of ponds and
their area, there are practical limitations to how much land is available and the expense
of all that plumbing, etc. So, you have to balance the value of saving
the water in the locks versus the capital and ongoing expenses of constructing and operating
these basins. That’s made a lot easier with a pretty simple
formula to calculate the ratio of how much water is used with side ponds versus without
them. The new locks at the Panama Canal each use
three basins which are about the same area as the locks themselves. Plugging in 3 for the number of basins, and
1 for the lock to basin area ratio, you can see that the new locks use only 40% of the
water that would be required to operate without the basins. That’s pretty impressive and definitely
seems worth the cost of the basins. But, it’s not the only example of this. Another lock in Hannover Germany has ten basins,
reducing the lost water by about three-fourths, although the tanks are underground so they’re
harder to see. I’ve been talking about freight transportation
in this video, but people use boats for all kinds of different reasons, and in the same
way, there are all kinds, shapes, sizes, and ages of locks across the world. In fact there are a lot of canals where you
can operate the lock yourself. They’re also not the only way of moving
boats up or down, but that’s a topic for another video. Next time you see a lock, consider where that
water comes from, and keep an eye out for side ponds that help save a little or a lot
of it for the next time. Hey, very quickly, I want to say that this
video was supported by viewers like you through Patreon. YouTube is not a full time gig for me and
there are quite a few costs that go into the videos from materials, digital assets, equipment,
and help from professionals. Sponsors and ad revenue come and go, but the
supporters on patreon are the ones truly making it possible to put out a video like this once
per month in my spare time. If you liked this video, I hope I earned your
subscription. You can also keep up with everything I’m
doing in my monthly newsletter linked below. As always, thanks so much for watching, and
let me know what you think!