- Hey guys this is Austin, and welcome to CES 2020, where the madness has
truly and officially begun. Our friends over at Asus ROG, well they like to bring
out the special toys, the things which are a little bit... Okay, look, this is a monitor that's running at 360
frames per second right now. And I'm going to now proceed to spend the next three
minutes of this video trying to explain to
you what it looks like because you're watching a
video at 24 frames per second. So this is the ROG Swift, and what really separates it from pretty much every
other display out there is the fact that it runs
at a full 360 hertz. Yes, we've gone past
60, past 144, past 240 all the way to 360 frames per second. Now can you tell a difference? It depends. Are you good at games? If not... So this is very much aimed
to be an eSports monitor. It's not really meant
for Ken to play Red Dead. So compared to something
like a 120 frames per second, what I can see with my naked eye, which I don't know why I would
look at it with anything else is the fact that while the 120
and the 360 look very smooth but the main difference in the
actual clarity of the image. So if you try to look at, say, like the text on this DOTA demo, it's very blurry running
at like 120 or 144, or even up to 240. Whereas at 360 it is razor sharp. Now there are certainly downsides to this display. So it only runs at 1080p, it is very much not meant to have like a ton of crazy
high end like HDR specs. The main idea here is that
this is an eSports display, it is meant to be the fastest display that you could pretty much
possibly get your hands on. And if you're a Ninja, this is going to be great. And if you're everyone else
who wants to be as good as him be good first and then the
display will be helpful. JJ, in one sentence or less, can you please describe
why you love the monitor that's right in front of us right now? - I don't even need one sentence, man. - That was your whole sentence. - Okay, maybe I need two words. 1152 zones, 1400 nits. - That's a lot of brightness. Thank you very much, sir. This is the ROG Swift PG32UQX. And essentially... That's all I actually need to talk about, he already hit it. 1400 nits of brightness. This thing is obscene. So especially when you look at this, so you can see that there a- Well actually, you
might not be able to see because again all of the things
that we're looking at today are, you know, incredibly
high brightness and contrast and high frame rates
that you can't really see on a YouTube video. But trust me when I say this thing looks incredibly bright. So especially when you
look at the contrast between some of the darker
areas here in this fire. I mean it is like eye searingly bright. It is so bright. And the cool part about this is that you have a ton of other
capabilities with the fact that it runs at 144 hertz, that you do have a full 4K resolution, it's a full 32 inch display. But when you're sitting
right in front of it, not even counting any of the other stuff, just purely looking at
the HDR implementation it is absolutely incredible how much dynamic range you're getting. Now if you want to go even bigger, there's the 43 inch display which not only has a full 4K resolution. What I really like is it will run at a full 144 frames per second with a single DisplayPort cable. So there's no chroma sub-sampling, it's still running at a full 10 bit. And what you're getting here is a display which well only runs at 1000 nits, unlike the 1400 nits over there, but it's still an incredibly
good looking display which is really nice and large. However I have been very
helpfully informed by JJ that I forgot to mention
that this has a remote which would be perfect
for, say, oh, I don't know, a next generation console. Now if we're being real what I might be most excited for here is the ASUS ROG Zephyrus G14 with built-in This Is branding. How do you feel about that, Matt? - I feel great. Subscribe to This Is. - So obviously the most exciting
feature right off the bat is the AniMe Matrix display. I'm definitely saying that wrong, I don't actually know if
that's the final name. But essentially, this is an LED panel that is on the back of the Zephyrus which you can completely customize. Which we have very thankfully
from our friends at Asus done with This Is branding. But you can turn it off, you
can put whatever you want, it'll animate with like a GIF
or whatever you'd like to do. But while that's really the showy thing, what I'm excited for is
what's inside this guy. Because this is one of
the every first laptops to ship with the brand new
Ryzen 4000 series mobile chips, aka laptops are about to get a whole lot more exciting this year. So inside you have a couple of options going from Ryzen 5,
which has a six core design, or Ryzen 7 which this is rocking with a full eight cores. Now I am incredibly, incredibly excited to get my hands on this
and play around with it. Although unfortunately this
one is heavily locked down, so I can't so much as say
the word Geekbench out loud without it wanting to close itself down. But what we're getting
here is some serious boost, I believe it's over 4
gigahertz on this model and Asus is actually using their own, I guess I wanna say
custom version of Ryzen. But they do have the HS model, which is going to be running at 35 watts, but give you the power
roughly of the 45 watt model. So essentially what you get here is an incredibly powerful laptop
processor with eight cores in an AMD system. Which is very exciting. For real though, this is an incredibly exciting moment because laptops especially have been very, very
much dominated by Intel, even on the gaming side but
especially on the portable side. However with Zen 2 hitting
with the Ryzen 4000 series, going up to eight cores on a laptop, which let me just sort of make clear is actually very portable. So this is a 14 inch laptop with an RTX 2060 and an
eight core Ryzen processor and yet it's not that much
bigger than most Ultrabooks. So it starts with Ryzen
5 and a 1660Ti, but if you go all the way
to Ryzen 7 and RTX 2060 we should still only be
looking at about $2000. Which for this level of power, especially if Ryzen 4000 series
is as good as I hope it is is super, super, exciting. It also has a really small
180 watt power brick, which I say really small, but
considering it's 180 watts it is pretty small. But the other cool thing is it also supports USB-C power delivery which means that as long
as you're not gaming, you could actually use a standard
power brick up to 65 watts and it will charge the laptop. I should also probably mention that it has a 120 hertz panel at 1080p, or if you want a high resolution
go up to 1440p at 60 hertz. Now beyond that there are
a couple of other things. So of course it does have not
only the Ergolift design, but you have a pretty
solid variety of ports including a couple of USB-A, a couple of USB-C as well as HDMI. And one of the coolest parts about this, is the fact that it actually looks very I don't want to say
gamer-y because it doesn't, but it looks nice. I will say that the
Zephyrus definitely kind of this generation I think
is, it looks grown up. Especially in this gray. There's also a white model, but it doesn't look super show off-y which is nice because
this is very thin laptop, it's a very powerful laptop, but it doesn't really look like some huge bulky gaming laptop. And for me, that's really
what I'm looking for. I am incredibly excited for this laptop and it comes out in two to three months depending on where you are and depending on how
quickly they build them. So that, my friends, is a
look at what Asus has to offer here at CES 2020. Definitely be sure to
subscribe to the channel for lots more CES coverage this year. As well as you can check out
some of the other videos here, and please wish me luck because I have many,
many more videos to make. Or everything else I see is lame and I'm gonna go hang out
in Vegas for a couple days. It's win-win, I don't know.