- Holy (quack). We got this from Goodwill? (record scratch)
Last time, we found some truly
incredible tech at Goodwill and some stuff that's
gonna give me nightmares. But we have got so much more today. Okay, so there are a
few things in this box which I will talk about. We've got Pokemon Snap for N64, Extreme XG2, NASCAR 2000, a real classic, and Star Wars Shadows of the Empire, also a really good game. But look at this, we've got ourselves Hot Newz 64, the Nsider's Guide to N64. I believe, I don't have
the full backstory on this, but I believe that this is shipped to you maybe with like a Nintendo
Power subscription or something, I'm not entirely sure. But this is an actual authentic Nintendo VHS with all the hot tips, cool cheats, and sneak peeks
you could ever hope for for your Nintendo 64 in 1999. All right, it is time to
experience Hot Newz 64. - Welcome you lucky, lucky game freaks. (Austin laughs) You'll get an inside beacon of the brain shattering 3D world of Donkey Kong 64. - It's a good game.
- Oh crush me big monkey. Crush me. - What the--
- What? - The hell did he say? What did he just say? I don't even know what to
say about this right now. How much do we pay for all
of our Ncredible N64 games? - [Alex] 51 dollars. - Dude, that's a steal. Absolutely wild. I'm gonna eject this, and then let's switch over
to N64 and play some games. All right. Let's start out with Shadows
of the Empire, shall we? Uh oh. - [Alex] I can clean
the contacts real quick. - Here let me, yeah,
let me try real quick. So that's not working. Lemme just look up like
NASCAR and see if it's a game cart or it's a N64 problem. Uh oh. Okay, Shadows of the Empire does not boot. All right, quick race? Oh, it's Dale Earnhardt. Oh sad. Sure. I'll do you proud Dale, I'll do you proud. - [Game Announcer] EA Sports. It's in the game. - Did the game just reset by itself? Uh. Okay, let's try Pokemon Snap. Oh there's Squirtles. Are those Squirtles? I think our, our N64 might be having some
technical issues right now. So I actually don't think we're having problems with the games. I think we're just having
problems with the fact that our N64 resets
itself every little bit. Well, you know what? It doesn't take away the shine from the fact that we got some terrific items from Goodwill. And that I maybe need
to go on Goodwill Finds and find an N64 that's
not gonna crash on me now. (whoosh) Next up we've got ourselves what appear to be laptops. All right, so this is, yes my friends, a Lenovo Chrome, yikes, wow. That was-- - [Matt ] I don't
remember the Chrome Yikes. - So we've got ourselves three Chromebooks and a bunch of power adapters. At least I hope a bunch of power adapters. What the hell? Oh this is a totally separate item. A totally separate item. We have three Chromebooks and our glasses for the Master System, the Sega Master System. That's not what I thought was in this box. Okay. So we'll come back to this
after I'm done Chrome booking. So confused. So I've got all these set
up and I have some thoughts. So let's start out with the Lenovo 100 S. So this one got its last
update for Chrome OS 82. And I believe we're on Chrome OS 119 now? Now I'll say that while the
100 S is by far the cheapest, least exciting one, if we move over to the N23, you'll find some very fancy features. So not only does the N23 have
this tilty flippy webcam, which is interesting, it also is a more modern device. So all these have like
roughly equivalent specs and you know, 768 P displays. But check this out. It's got a handle baby. So when your little
Timmy's walking to school, goes ah (quack), I lost my Chromebook. It's fine because it's durable. Hang on, I'm just gonna double check. See, durable. Wait, uh oh.
- I like how you said-- - Durable.
- It's durable because it has a handle and then you dropped it.
- No, no, no. If you've got, dude, if you build a handle onto a Chromebook and give it to children, it better be durable because they're gonna drop that (squeak). This one, even though it's newer, it has topped out at
version 92 of Chrome OS. So this one, also not amazing, although the handle is quite nice. Which brings us to the Chromebook 100 E from Lenovo. This is the only one that
is allowing me to update. It's currently on 87. So we're gonna restart and see. I'm gonna set this off to the side, we're gonna continue on and we'll check in a little bit later. But if this one is full up to date and the other two could be like little project laptops or something, 80 bucks, I mean it's no CR 48, it's no Google Chrome OS number one. But, I'll take what I can get. (whoosh) This one is quite large
and moderately heavy. What's large and moderately heavy? It's moderately, no.
(group laughs) You know what? Here you go, here you go. I got you, I'm sorry man. Now that we're all done
tormenting each other, let's see what's inside here. (Austin gasps)
Oh snap, oh snap. That's a Mavica. This my friends is the Sony Mavica CD200. Now while our last Mavica
shot to floppy discs, this is all the way up to the good old glory days of mini CDs. All right and here, oh wow, it's actually kinda big. Here is the CD Mavica itself. So this looks significantly
more modern than the other one. So you see it's round here just because you've gotta
fit the CD in somewhere. We've got mini USB, AV out, we've got our 2.5 inch screen, power in. Would you care to refresh me on how much we paid for the Mavica CD200? - [Alex] Yes,
you'll be pleased to know that we only paid 33 dollars. - Goodwill out here with the deals man. Let's plug the camera
in and see if it works. Oh yeah, that's a good sign. We got a yellow charge LED. So if I turn it on. (power on noise) - [Alex] Ooh. - That sounded like a
PlayStation 2 noise, I like it. - [Matt] What do you think the movie mode resolution is? - Oh, it's probably gonna be 144P. - [Matt] It's got an MPEG HQ, which is 320 by 240. - 240P? Joanna, take that
camera, throw in the garbage. We got the upgrade, we got
the upgrade right here. (glass break sound effect) Oh, wait, hold on a second. The screen is attached to
the back of the disc drive. So the screen has got
a tilty flippy screen. Okay, that's cool. All right, let's just try it here. I'll start out with a selfie. Ready, set, (camera shutter noise) ah (quack), I wasn't ready for it. (mechanical whirring) - [Alex] Why does it sound like it's printing out a-- - Is that what happens
every time you take a photo? Wow. And now let's listen for the CD. - [Alex] Yeah, I guess it's fine. I guess that only happens
the first time you do it. - Dude, this thing is dope. So I want to load this up on a computer and see what it looks like. But I'm gonna actually take this around once I get the battery to charge and shoot some photos and videos of it. - So I brought the Sony Mavica with me out to Japan on a short little
trip to shoot some B-roll. And it's not exactly the best experience. This is what the CD Mavica looks like going into a mediumly lit subway station. I don't even know-- (smooth jazz music) - I should probably check my Chromebook to see if it's horribly outta date and a complete pile of E-waste. Our Chromebook OS is on 119! This is fully up to date. So out of our three Chromebooks, one of which actually was able to go all the way up to the most
recent build of Chrome OS. Now how long it's gonna get
updates for, I have no idea. But between USB-C, the fact that it's in decent shape, and the fact that we got this one and two others for 80 bucks, don't stop me now. - Don't stop me now.
- Because you're having a good time. ♪ Having a good time. ♪ ♪ Goodwill, flying through
the sky like a firework ♪ I don't have the rest
of the lyrics of that. This is great, this is great. (Austin laughs) We going back, we going way back. This is, one of the very first
game consoles of all time. That my friends is the one and only Magnavox Odyssey. Now this is specifically the 300 which has been upgraded with
a fancy yellow color scheme. So this is slightly later, because the first Odyssey
came out in the early '70s. This one I believe is from the mid '70s. 1976. The Magnavox Company. Man, 1976. A good year for playing games at home. There's Pong and Odyssey, which could play Pong. Actually no, no, sorry, it could play not Pong, it plays hockey, tennis, and smash. And I play smash all the time. Smash Brothers. Smash Brothers, you know. (dramatic tune) Oh boy, that box is flimsy, and holy, it's so much bigger than I thought. Oh what the hell? Oh my God,
(sniffs) it smells like the inside of a 1972 Volkswagen Karmann Ghia. Hmm.
- That's very specific. - I spent a lot of time in the front seat of a 1972 Volkswagen Karmann Ghia
when I was younger. So we've got ourselves the
controls, which is the home team, which actually, wow, they've got like serious resistance. Wow, that's actually not
as smooth as I thought. We've got our game selector mode, our skill level, and
we've got a power switch. We're gonna go and find
ourselves an adapter to make this work in the year of 2023. - [Alex] I think we might need several adapters, actually.
- Multiple adapters, probably a whole chain of adapters and we'll be right back. Okay, so status report. We're not really having
a lot of luck here. So with our Odyssey 300 that
we purchased from Goodwill, as you can hear, it does
seem to be playing a game. Unfortunately, we cannot
get any video signal out. So we did buy this adapter as well as an entirely different Odyssey. This is a 4000, to
see if this would work. And unfortunately it is not
getting any signal to the TV. Now we can't exactly move on from here, because the problem is, is that, we don't have a power adapter
for this Odyssey 4000. So technically it could be this box, but my assumption is that
over the last nearly 50 years, a capacitor melted, something went down to the point where clearly
the game logic is running, but the video signal sadly
is no longer with us. I mean, it was sold as untested. You know, it came with a box, it's fine. It is a little bit disappointing though. Like, I feel like there's a way that we could get this
back up and running. It just might require technical knowledge far above my ability. So this is really well packed and I'm not sure what's on the inside. You know what, I wanna hire Goodwill to ship all of my packages from now on because they have done a terrific job. Oh, I see why it's so heavy. It's our Master System power adapter. You know the thing that weighs 17 pounds, right?
- Hey. - Right, Master System? Yeah Sega, all right. So I think this whole thing
is our Sega Master System. We've got, hang on, an Astro Warrior,
a combo cartridge. After Burner, heck yeah. Great Basketball, better
than Good Basketball. Great Football, better than Good Football, and Monopoly, the mega plus cartridge. This my friends, is the Sega Master System. So this was about what, 10 years after the earlier consoles we looked at, like Pong and whatnot. Okay, here goes nothing. So-- - [Alex] It's thinking about it, hey! - Oh wow, it's actually, oh that's kinda hard to. Holy. All right, I would say, the four frames per second
is a little difficult. - [Alex] Yeah, but
the picture looks great. - It does look really clean, doesn't it? After Burner also came out
for the Genesis as well. Oh, I crashed. Uh oh. All right. That's enough of After Burner. Let's play a game that
I definitely can't ruin. How about, how about Monopoly? There's no space in Monopoly, That's Mono Poly. That sounds like a disease. (8-bit ice cream truck music) - [Alex] Was this not
copyrighted in the '80s? - I dunno. - [Alex] I'm kind of into it. - Honestly, these graphics
are shockingly good. Look, I like Monopoly. You know, as you do. I bought Monopoly for the
Switch a couple years ago and that version of the
game not only ran worse, took longer to play, but was less visually interesting than this that came out in 1987. I'm impressed. How much did we pay for the Master System and all of these games? - [Alex] Well, all I can say is I'm really glad you did
not kick it like a football because this was our most
expensive item at 170 dollars. - I think worth it. I mean Master Systems, and to be fair, it's not like
amazing condition or whatever. But the fact that we have these games, we have like the original
like manuals and stuff like, this is legit. And I just, I'm gonna keep
saying it over and over again. The fact that these are just donated to Goodwill is crazy to me. To pair with our Master System, what's all the rage today? Apple Vision Pro, Meta Quest 3, how about, Master System VR goggles? Yep, you heard me right. These are actual glasses that you are supposed to put into your Master System and they'll give you a
3D input of some kind. How this works, I have literally no idea. So I've got myself the glasses, which are missing the part
to make it stick to your face now that I look at it.
(Alex laughs) So, okay. So I'm gonna plug this
in and see what happens. Theoretically 3D, of some kind. I don't know how it works though, so. No, it doesn't do anything. - [Alex] Yeah, looking
into it a little bit more, it seems like all of the games that are
compatible with 3D systems, they just say 3D, a 3D cartridge. So-- - Well, we'll be right back after we find stuff to make our cool 3D glasses work on our 1987 game console. What could possibly go wrong? (whoosh)
Oh, what do we have here? But Missile Defense 3D. Emphasis on light phaser 3D glasses required. The day has arrived for
thermonuclear warfare, but there is one hope, you. Wait, holy (quack). Designed for Sega by Mark Cerny. - [Ken] Wait, what? No. - The dude who like architected the PS5, in 1987 designed this thermonuclear laser game for the Sega Master System 3D glasses. How cool is that? So I have no idea if anything's
gonna show up on the TV or if it's all here. Or if none of this works. There's only way to find out. Okay. So it's on channel three. So it should, if I've plugged everything
in which it is plugged in. - Also, whoever owned this
had some crusty ass eyes. - Oh, okay. Oh my God dude, that
actually doesn't look bad. - Oh, hold on wait, it's not all the way.
- Ow, ow, what are you? All right, we're at the North Pole. Whoa, they're flying all over the place. So you're saying I, no control does anything. (dramatic 8-bit game music) - I haven't thoroughly designed this strap system for you unfortunately.
- Ow. So to properly play this, you have a light gun and you're shooting the missiles out of the sky. It does not use the control pad. That being said, I can still actually talk about the 3D. Is it good? No. Would it be better if I was using a CRT? Potentially. But for 1987, there is a real 3D effect. It clearly looks, you can see all this blurriness, it looks bad on camera. What seems to be going on is that the Master System is sending that sort of weird like sort of 3D signal. These glasses, all they're
doing is really just, I don't know if they're active shutters or exactly what the actual technology is, but all it's doing, you're sort of going left, right, left, right, left, right, left, right really quickly, which is then helping your eyes to interpret these images
as coming towards you. So like those missiles look like they're actually coming towards you, yeah. Like that one looks like
it's coming towards you. Like it actually looks pretty decent. This Mark Cerny guy, he's going places. At this point, do I know what this is? Oh, this is our DMG. This is our DMG with the case, right? Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh snap. Oh snap, is it, it? Yeah boy, yeah boy. This is a carrying case for your Game Boy. I'm just trying to wrap
my head around the fact that someone wanted to
carry their Game Boy, their portable console
in a damn briefcase. I also like the fact that this thing seems like it was made outta the same kind of plastic as the DMG. So it's kind of faded in the same way. They even have like raised buttons, which obviously didn't
do anything, but like, man, that's pretty cool for 1991. So let's see what's inside. Oh my god, that's a lot of stuff. Oh dude. Okay, okay, okay. So, we've got ourselves not only the DMG, which has batteries
unfortunately in it, yikes. Getting those outta there right now. A lot, ah. What the (quack) is that? Is that blood? Or something else? Oh, gross. With a good clean, this actually looks
like it's in good shape. It's just dirt. It's not actually like scratched
or beat up, or anything. And the screen lens is, I would say in pretty good
shape considering the age. Okay, before we actually fire that up, let's see what else we've got here. So we've got ourselves a copy of Tetris and Ninja Turtles Fall of the Foot Clan. Boy, that was a real classic. I remember the Foot
Clan, screw those guys. They didn't need to fall. We also have a Light Boy. It would allow you to
not only have a light, but also a magnifying glass
for your Game Boy screen. So this is an original Game
Boy rechargeable battery pack. So if you want a game on the go, you'd clip this to your belt, you plug it into your Game Boy, it's like the Apple Vision
Pro but 1989 edition. You know what? We need Matt. We actually, I think
we need Matt for this. Matt. Are you ready to be excited? - What?
- Game Boy time. Let's see if we can get the
Light Boy up and running, but let's clean that
Game Boy up real quick. Seriously like, we cleaned up the outside. Technically it is functional right now. To do this right, we would
need to take it apart. Probably give the shell a
little bit more of a proper bath and then it's probably something as simple as cleaning the contacts. - Yeah.
- And the little like rubber domes underneath. It does work though. And the screen looks,
I mean for aw DMG, good. - Oh, oh, this is gonna be gross. (snap)
There it is. - That was an awful noise. - Dude, feel how tight that is though? Ooh. - That is the tightest. Oh my God, dude, it's like so on there. Ugh. Now, the grand total
for our entire Game Boy case and accessories was so affordable that I don't
even need to tell you. (Matt laughs) Not because I forgot the number, because it was really low. Think about a number in your head. It's less than that. Because it only cost us
the low, low price of (mumbles) dollars. So affordable.
- I'm sorry, can you repeat that? I'm hard of hearing. - 100, uh 160 dollars. - 160 dollars? - Ah it was something like that, you know. Just give or take a little bit. It look, but Matt look, it comes
in the carrying case. It's got the Light Boy, that doesn't work. - [Matt] Honestly
the carrying case for me. [Alex] If you like that 160 dollars, then you'll like the actual
price which is 111 dollars. I don't know where you
got 160 dollars from. - Oh it was 111? Look, what a great deal. I totally didn't think that I bid, oh no, I bid 160 on it because I didn't want
someone else to get it. But we got it for 111, I forgot that. Thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe to the channel and ring-a-ling the ding-a-ling button for some more Goodwill shenanigans. And until next time, I'm gonna go elbow some sweaty nerds
on goodwillfinds.com to get my sweet, sweet new deals. Don't you even think about going to Goodwill and stealing all my future video items. (Matt mumbles) (Austin mumbles) (Matt yells)