Sinks, showers, toilets and baths: they all send 
wastewater into the sewer system. But have you   ever really considered the path that wastewater 
takes once it’s out of sight and out of mind? You   might know that it usually flows to a nearby 
treatment plant that can clean it up. But,   on the way, it might pass through a wastewater 
lift station, like this one outside San Antonio,   Texas. We've been watching it be built from the 
ground up (or really the ground down). In the last   episode, almost all the backfill and concrete 
at the site were completed, plus the wet well   and manholes were lined with a protective epoxy 
coating. But there’s a lot more to do before this   facility is up and running, pumping the area’s 
wastewater uphill to the treatment plant. I’ll   walk you through the whole process and show 
you how this pump station works in this final   episode of the series... I’m your host, Grady 
Hillhouse, and this is Practical Construction. Pipes are arriving on site to the San Antonio 
River Authority’s newest wastewater lift station.   Now that most of the underground work is 
done, it’s time to start installing the   equipment that will connect the wet well to the 
uphill treatment plant. The pipes arrive with a   protective coating that, in most cases, needs 
to be removed. The sand blasting rig is here,   and so is the sand that will be used to 
clean these pipes and get them ready for   paint. The process of sand blasting, 
also called abrasive media blasting,   uses compressed air to fire media through 
a hose. (In this case the media is sand,   but there are lots of other materials that 
can be sent through a hose with compressed   air.) All the steel pipes for the project 
are blasted clean of the protective factory   coating. This gives the flanges fresh surfaces 
so that they will seal together correctly,   and it cleans and roughens the outside of the 
pipes to prepare them for the final coating. Once blasted clean, the pipes are ready to be 
painted, but you rarely hear it called that   in the field. Paint used to protect metal 
surfaces is mostly just called “coating” by   the pros. This spray painting rig also 
uses a pressurized air supply from a   trailer-mounted compressor to deliver paint to 
the nozzle. All of the pipes and fittings are   masked off to make sure none of the coating 
gets on the flanges or inside. Then they’re   set up on saw horses and coated. All the fittings and reducers get coated as well. But we don’t just hope the coating 
meets the project specifications;   we double-check. This is a dry film thickness 
gauge that uses a magnet to measure how much   paint is built up around the pipe. Turn the wheel 
until the indicator pops up, and it tells you the   coating thickness in mils which are thousandths 
of an inch or about 25 microns. Once confirmed   that the coating meets specifications, it’s 
almost time to start installing the pipes. The very first lines will go into the wet well, 
but the scaffolding inside has to be removed   before that. This assembly has been useful to hold 
up the form work while the concrete top was cast   and for the spray liners to stand on while they 
did their work, but now it’s in the way. It gets   dismantled inside the wet well, and each piece 
is lifted out one by one.  While one crew gets  the last few pieces of scaffolding out,  another starts laying out the locations for all the pipes using string lines.  The strings make it easier 
to get nice straight lines as pipes, fittings,   and valves are moved into position. And plumb 
lines mark the locations at the bottom of the   wet well directly below each of the three 
blockouts in the concrete lid at the top. A lot of these pipes are quite heavy, 
so the mobile crane is brought back   to the site one more time to help lift 
them into place. It gets into position,   and then the operator puts down the outriggers 
to help create a stable base. And finally it’s   time to start installing pipes. The first 
discharge line is lowered into the wet   well through the hatch. It’s attached to 
a special quick-release connection system   already installed at the bottom of the wet well. 
We’ll see this in action later in the episode. The next section of the first discharge line is 
lowered into the wet well through the hatch. It’s   set at the bottom of the wet well, then re-rigged 
through the concrete blockout at the top, and   lifted into place. Once positioned correctly, the 
flanges are bolted together. This gets repeated   for the other two discharge lines. The first pipe is lowered into the wet well and attached   to the pump discharge quick release, then the 
second line is put in, disconnected, re-attached   through the blockout, and lifted into place. The 
space between each of the discharge lines and the   concrete blockout are filled with link seals just 
like the sewer lines coming into the wet well. Before long, it’s time to start connecting 
the above-ground sections of pipe. These   pipes will sit on supports that are bolted 
into the concrete pad. Holes are drilled,   and then anchors get epoxied into the holes. 
Once cured, the anchors will hold each pipe   support rigidly to the slab. Most of 
the above-ground piping and fittings   come together using flanges. A gasket between 
the flanges creates a pressure-rated seal,   and the ring of nuts and bolts holds each 
pipe section tightly to its neighbor. All   these pipes and fittings come together pretty 
quickly, but it will be easiest to understand   them if we go in order. I’ll walk you 
through the whole assembly in a minute,   but I want to start with the pumps, and they 
haven’t been installed in the wet well just yet. Before they go in, the bottom needs a little 
work. Since the pumps will be installed near   the center of the wet well, the outside 
corners could be an area where solids   accumulate. The engineer specified that the 
bottom of the wet well be sloped toward the   pumps in a bowl shape to make sure there are no 
stagnant areas where solids might settle out of   suspension. And that’s going to take some more 
concrete. A concrete pump arrives to the site   and gets set up by extending its boom. The 
truck lowers a hose into the wet well, and   a finishing crew works to get the new bottom 
perfectly sloped toward where the pumps will   eventually sit. Once this concrete cures, 
the coating crew returns to finish up the   epoxy liner at the bottom of the wet well. 
And finally it’s time to put in the pumps. Each of these pumps is rated to use 50 kilowatts 
or 67 horsepower of electricity to move around 800   gallons or 3000 liters per minute to an elevation 
of around 200 feet or 60 meters above this lift   station. And there will be three of them in the 
wet well. These pumps are specifically designed   for sewage applications. The San Antonio River 
Authority hopes that no one would put anything   except water, human waste, and toilet paper into 
the sewage system (and especially not wipes). But,   in the case that something larger or more fibrous 
finds its way to this lift station, the impellers   in the pumps have a special shape to avoid getting 
caught on stringy debris. And if a pump does get   clogged, each one can be disconnected from the 
discharge line and lifted with a chain out of the   wet well for service. That means installing the 
pumps for the first time is a pretty simple job. Each pump has a knuckle that fits into vertical 
guides that run along the discharge pipes. A   hoist or a crane simply lowers the pump along 
the guides. When the pump reaches the bottom,   it seals against the discharge line with 
its own weight, providing a pressure-rated   connection without having to send someone to 
the bottom of the wet well to tighten bolts.   Each of the pumps’ chains is hooked at the 
top of the hatch to make it easy to remove   a pump from the wet well for inspection 
or service. And the electrical cables are   securely attached there as well. Those electrical 
connections run in conduits through the concrete   and up to the junction boxes where they are 
attached to the rest of the control system. Part of the job of the control system 
is to know when to turn the pumps on,   so this wet well needs a liquid level sensor. 
The sensor is installed inside a stilling well,   a length of pipe inside the wet well meant to 
isolate the sensor from any splashing or waves   that happen from the wastewater flow. This is 
really just a length of PVC pipe that extends   almost the entire height of the wet well. You 
can see the stilling well at the top right in   this shot as crews start to fill the wet well 
with water for its first test. And you can see   the float switches installed as well. If the level 
sensor stops working or something else goes wrong,   these simple float switches will set off an alarm 
and flash a light at the top of the controls   shelter to let operators know that the level is 
too low (which could cause the pumps to run dry   and overheat) or too high (which could cause 
a backup in one or more of the sewer lines or   an overflow). The wet well also gets a gooseneck 
vent to equalize the air pressure inside and out. This water is just for testing the pumps, but 
before long, wastewater will start flowing into   this wet well from the surrounding sewer lines. 
When the liquid reaches a prescribed level, it   will trigger the control system to automatically 
turn on one of the pumps, called the lead pump.   And if the level keeps going up, a second pump 
(called the lag pump) will turn on too. This   lead-lag configuration helps the station account 
for variable flow rates, and the third pump acts   as a standby. The lead pump, lag pump, and standby 
alternate so that they wear down evenly over time. Each pump has its own discharge line, we 
saw be installed, that comes up through   the concrete to an aboveground manifold. 
First the lines are each equipped with a   pressure gage that makes it easy to see 
if the pump is running and (if so) at the   right pressure. Then each line gets a check 
valve that only allows flow in one direction.   This valve prevents one pump from simply 
backflowing wastewater into the wet well   through another pump’s discharge line. Next, 
the lines each have plug valves so they can be   isolated for maintenance. Pipes and valves 
don’t last forever, so everything in this   facility has been designed to make it easy to 
service parts and keep things up and running. After the isolation valves, all the individual 
lines come together into a single pipe that   passes through an automatic air release valve. 
Air bubbles that get into the line can get stuck   at this high point and constrict the flow. This 
valve uses weights and a float to automatically   release air from the line without letting any 
of the wastewater out. As you might imagine,   air bleeding from a pipe full of raw 
sewage isn’t exactly pleasant to smell,   so the air bleed line runs right back to 
the wet well. This also keeps wastewater   from leaking onto the ground if 
this valve were to malfunction. And, just like this facility is designed for ease 
of maintenance, it’s also designed with lots of   redundancy. The three pumps are just the start. Sewage keeps flowing, even during emergencies and   power outages, so this pump station is designed 
with contingencies. A fourth pump, this one   powered by diesel, can keep the wastewater flowing 
if this facility loses grid power. We saw its   foundation installed in the previous episode, 
and now it’s time to put the pump in place. The diesel pump has a suction line 
installed in the wet well you can   see here. And it’s discharge line runs 
to the aboveground manifold with a check   valve and plug valve like the others. But 
even if all four pumps are out of service,   the manifold also includes an emergency bypass 
so that the San Antonio River Authority could   bring in another mobile pump, hook it up 
quickly, and avoid a backup or overflow. All 5 pump discharge lines come together ahead 
of the flow meter that keeps an accurate record   of how much fluid passes through the pipes each 
day. Operators can compare the readings on this   meter to the ones at the end of the line to 
make sure there are no leaks or equipment   malfunctions between the two. One last plug 
valve makes it possible to isolate the entire   facility for maintenance. And then wastewater 
leaves the pump station into the force main. This is a pressure-rated sewer line that was 
installed during construction of the original   lift station, and now it’s time to connect it to 
the new facility. Crews extended this line toward   the new pump station earlier in the project but 
waited for the final pieces until the discharge   manifold was finalized. They install the elbows 
to turn the corner. Each connection is attached   with a compression fitting called a mechanical 
joint. The final length of underground pipe is   installed. Then, concrete is placed at each of 
the bends to create structures called thrust   blocks that will distribute the pressure into 
the soil and keep the pipe from moving over   time. The metal pipe is wrapped in plastic. All 
the underground piping is backfilled. And now   this lift station has a direct connection 
to the wastewater treatment plant nearby. In many ways, a wet-well type lift 
station is just like a sump pump in   your basement. The water level comes up, it 
triggers a float switch, the pump comes on,   and the water level drops back down. But in 
many ways this facility is not anything like   a basement sump pump, and most of those ways 
are electrical. Let’s take a look at the power   and control systems of the pump station. Both 
the original lift station on this site and the   new one are fed power from the grid through 
these new 480-volt transformers installed by   the electric utility. Each of the three phases 
runs through a disconnect switch, allowing the   entire facility to be isolated from the grid, a 
meter so the utility can bill for power usage,   and then a fused switch that will protect the 
equipment in the event of a short circuit. Each   of these monster fuses is rated for 350 
amps at 500 volts. That’s a lot of power. From there, power heads to the control shelter and 
its panels. Another disconnect switch allows the   new pump station to be isolated for maintenance. 
And then a transfer switch is installed. Again,   it’s all about redundancy. If the power goes 
out, the San Antonio River Authority can bring   in a mobile generator and connect 
it directly to the equipment here,   flip the transfer switch, and power the 
lift station off-grid. And, a transformer   converts the 480-volt service to 120-volts 
for the lights, outlets, and other controls. Of course, a high-voltage facility like this 
needs a robust connection to the ground to   protect workers and make sure that a fault can be 
identified quickly. Copper rods are hammered deep   into the ground and welded to the conductors to 
create a good bond. The entire grounding system   gets tested to make sure it’s well connected 
to the earth. A small current is run between   the ground rods and a test electrode on 
the other side of the construction site,   and the resistance between the two is 
recorded. If the resistance were too high,   more ground rods would have to be installed, 
but this system passed the test just fine. This panel houses the remote terminal unit for 
the San Antonio River Authority’s Supervisory   Control and Data Acquisition or SCADA system. 
Rather than send someone to this lift station   to record data or change the controls, it’s 
easier to pipe everything to a centralized   location. SCADA is a type of industrial 
network that interconnects sensors, controls,   and databases to keep accurate records and 
enable remote control of facilities like   this one. An antenna at the top of the shelter 
gives the lift station a wireless connection,   and the remote terminal unit provides an 
interface for an operator at the lift station. But that doesn’t mean there aren’t manual 
controls. This is the pump control panel that   allows an operator to start and stop each of the 
three pumps. It includes circuitry to soft start   each one to avoid huge power surges, cycle through 
the pumps so they wear evenly, and error systems   to shut down a pump if it overheats or loses 
a seal. The panel next to it has the circuit   breakers for each pump to protect them against 
short circuits. These panels connect to the pumps   through underground conduits we saw be installed 
in an earlier episode. The electricians had a   pretty clever way to run the cables through. First 
they tie a plastic bag on a string, and suck it   to the other side with a vacuum. Then the cables can be tied to the string and pulled through each conduit.  Once all the electrical work is done, 
this project is getting close to wrapping up. The contractor starts cleaning up the site 
to prepare for the last items. One of those   items is installing bollards to protect the 
lift station from an errant vehicle. They   attach to drilled concrete piles to create 
a strong and sturdy foundation. Then the  last concrete of the job goes in. This slab 
connects the new lift station to the old one,   creating a driveable area for maintenance 
personnel and operators. They also replace   the concrete that was removed to trench in one of 
the sewer lines below the original pump station. The bollards are installed, and concrete is 
complete. Now all that’s left is to get this   facility in operation. The first test of the 
pumps won’t be sewage, but water from the city   distribution system. If something goes wrong, it’s 
a lot easier to fix it before the sewage hits the   proverbial fan. The hose goes into the wet well 
and it slowly starts to fill up for the test. On testing day, the plan is simple: turn on 
each of the pumps to confirm it’s operating   as designed. The pump manufacturer has a 
representative on site to help with the process.   Each pump is turned on. They check the pressure 
on the gauge to make sure it's right. And,  they check the flow meter to ensure the pump 
is moving the right amount of fluid out of the   wet well. You can easily see the level in the wet 
well dropping as each pump is turned on. Finally,   they run the emergency diesel pump to confirm it’s 
working as well. It sounds easier than it really   is to check everything in this sophisticated 
facility and confirm it’s working properly for   the very first time, but before long, all the 
equipment passes the checks with flying colors. It’s been almost an entire year of work to get the 
San Antonio River Authority’s newest lift station   built and running. We’ve followed the process from 
the first scoop of dirt until now. And if you look   closely, you can see how much the surrounding area 
grew just during that time. Those new developments   and new houses will depend on this pumping 
station to carry wastewater away to the uphill   treatment plant. All the people who live and work 
in this area might not ever even know its there,   and that’s kind of the point. We want our sewage 
to be out of mind and out of sight. But, I hope   you’ve enjoyed getting an up-close look at what it 
really takes to keep our modern world running and   all the hard work that goes into even the most 
hidden parts of our constructed environment. Huge thanks to the San Antonio River 
Authority for inviting us onto their project,   their engineer UEG for fielding all our questions 
about the design, and their contractor MGC (and   all their subs) for putting up with us on the 
job site to document the process. It really is   not a small thing to have a film crew watching you 
work, especially when your job is hard enough as   it is. Thanks to our streaming partner Nebula, 
where you can watch the whole series ad-free at   the link below. And huge thanks to the Practical 
Engineering team who made this series possible. There’s a relatively new term in Italian, 
umarell (I’m sure I’m pronouncing that wrong),   but it refers to retired people who spend their 
days watching construction sites. I really believe   we all deserve to be those old pensioners, 
seeing how the world gets built around us   first hand. And documenting the construction 
of heavy civil infrastructure has been a dream   of mine for a long time. It took a ton of work 
from everyone involved to make it happen. But,   hopefully we made it look effortless! What do 
you think? Is this something you would like   to see more of? Does it belong on the 
Practical Engineering channel or as   its own thing? What kind of projects would 
you like to see in serial form like this,   and do you know anyone in the heavy civil 
construction world in Central Texas who   wouldn’t mind having a film crew on their site? 
I really do want to hear your feedback, so shoot   me an email or leave a comment below. Thank you for watching, and 
let me know what you think!