What do you get when you drag race seven pre-built gaming PCs from Dell, HP, MainGear, Starforge, NZXT, iBUYPOWER, and CyberPower? You get Secret Shopper Part 4. So far, we've talked shopping, shipping, support, and now it's time for... ...surformance? Who gave us the best bang for the buck at $1,500? In this installment, we'll be looking at pre-installed bloatware, BIOS configurations, Is anyone leaving performance on the table with a bad config? Cooling, and of course, straight-up raw gaming horsepower. We'll also be looking at who sponsored this whole series. Ugreen and their Nexode Pro 100-watt charger. With 100 watts of supercharging, it'll take your 14-inch MacBook Pro from 0 to 86% in just 60 minutes. And with three USB ports, you can charge up to three devices at once. But enough about charging devices... for now. I want to talk to you about our old friend, Dell. When we unboxed the XPS 8950 Night Sky, we noticed that there was both a one-year on-site service warranty, and one year of accidental damage protection. We chalked this up at the time to them both being included. But the thing is, Shea said no to the extra warranty that was suggested for an additional $69 Canadian dollars. And after investigating further, it turns out that it wasn't included. There was a charge on our invoice for it. It was only $54.62, so we got a discount, but we never agreed to it. So any points that we gave Dell earlier in the series for not forcing their warranty down our throat were... unwarranted. That's right, Dell screwed us again, and you'll soon see that it was in more ways than one. The Windows 11 Home and BIOS versions were from mid-March. The chipset driver was from late 2021, and our graphics driver was from mid-November 2022. I am now 100% sure that we were getting some cleared out old stock, which isn't inherently a problem, just something to watch for if you're buying a Dell. To ensure that all of our hardware in the series is putting its best foot forward, we updated all the software and drivers, enabled XMP memory tuning, and enabled resizable BAR on all of our systems. Or, at least most of them. I'm sad to say that not only did Dell not have either of these two performance enhancers turned on, but XMP isn't even an option on this motherboard, and, adding insult to injury, the included JDEC 4800 megatransfer per second CL40 kit was running at just 4400 megatransfers per second with no way to change it. So, that's what we were stuck with. We did find some highlights as we went through the system in more detail. The DRAM-cached Samsung drive that Dell uses is a cut above the competition, but looking into their power supply, we were very disappointed by our upgrade options. It's a piddly 460-watt 80-plus bronze unit, so certainly enough for our 12700 and 3060 Ti today, but no more, and, because it uses a custom power connector, swapping it out for something else is going to be challenging. We were also very disappointed by the included cooler. It sucks, and it's really hard to upgrade thanks to the M3-threaded backplate that is built into the case. Moving on to CyberPower, we're lucky this thing still boots after what Shea put it through. They 100% lost the tech support challenge, but hey, at least they didn't charge us extra for their three years' labor, one-year parts warranty, and we got a free month of Xbox Game Pass along with our mouse and keyboard. Software updates weren't awful either, with our graphics driver being very current and our BIOS just a couple of months old. Windows and our Intel chipset could have been better at mid-to-late 2022, but we consider that to be acceptable. A nice touch is that both XMP and resizable BAR were enabled out of the box, but what's not so nice is this single-channel DDR5 config. I kinda railed on this before, but I'm gonna do it again. Really, CyberPower? I mean, at least it's kinda fast, DDR5? It's just painful seeing them save, like, five bucks on single-channel memory only to waste $50 on a Z-series motherboard for a non-overclockable CPU. At least the system is easy to upgrade, though, with a standard motherboard from ASUS that gives us four DIMM slots, lots of M.2 and PCIe expansion, including Gen 5 expansion for potential future GPUs. It's also got a much better power supply at 600 watts, 80-plus gold, so if you do want to upgrade that RTX 4060 in the future, you should be able to. Our only big issue here, aside from that stupid single-channel memory module, is a serious lack of airflow, which is such a shame because it has all these fans just impotently spinning behind a sealed-off front panel. The good news is that the RTX 4060 8GB doesn't get all that hot, but if we were to step up to even a 70-class card, I can't guarantee the same results in the future. And forget about the future, the CPU is a problem today. Yeah, it's liquid-cooled, but these Intel chips need all the help that they can get when the motherboard lets them run full-bore, and this system in Cinebench 2024 had our CPU up to a toasty 100°C 97 average, meaning it needs more airflow, or maybe a bigger radiator if you're gonna hit it with heavy multi-core loads, but it should be noted that it was totally fine in games, and we did buy a gaming PC, so we got what we asked for, but it's something potential buyers should be aware of. Next up is the PC I'm betting on, the HP Omen 40L GT21, and it's not off to a good start. Windows, chipset drivers, BIOS, and GPU drivers go as far back as late 2021, so if you buy anything from HP, make sure that you're ready to install a slew of updates before you actually get to gaming. You're also gonna want to enable XMP, since that wasn't on by default, but Rebar was, even though we couldn't find the setting for it in their custom BIOS. In the box, we got a keyboard and mouse like almost everyone else. If you wanna play a fun game, you can guess who didn't send peripherals. Leave a comment right now, you might end up surprised. We got a warranty card for our one year of coverage that didn't cost extra, a quick start guide, and a how to install Windows 11 card. I guess these guys are still shipping Windows 10 systems? Based on how updated it was, I can't say I'm that surprised. Like with Dell, we're looking at an OEM motherboard, this time for our only AMD CPU, the Ryzen 7 5800X non-3D, but hey, it uses a sensible chipset, B550, and it's pretty bog standard, both in terms of its layout and its connectors, allowing for all the usual upgrades, including swapping the board out entirely in the future, and continuing to use the case and power supply. See? It's not that hard, Dell. It doesn't have a ton of PCIe expansion, the one 16x slot is already populated, though it's by the GPU that I think is gonna win this thing the crown, a last gen RTX 3070 Ti, and to its credit, it's got the first power supply that made me say, put away that sexy new Noctua edition screwdriver from lttstore.com. I don't think you're going to be needing it anytime soon. It's an 800 watt, 80 plus gold unit from Cooler Master. Sort of. It's made by Lighton Technologies, but then CM slapped their sticker on the side, and then HP put in their system. Cable management wasn't awful, though it was among the worst of the bunch, though I have to give them some credit for having an RGB and addressable RGB hub wired up in the back, and three total 120 millimeter fans for decent airflow and cooling performance. Even if the bottom fan basically dumps air straight into the basement, where the power supply is already taking fresh air in from the bottom anyway, so it kind of doesn't really do anything. Now it's time to check in on the king. iBuyPower walked over the competition in our support challenge and has won the performance crown the last two times running. But it's gonna be a tougher road this year. The RTX 4060 Ti in here isn't the better 16 gig variant, and our DDR5 is on the slower side, running at 5200 megatransfers per second, CL40. That's over 15 nanoseconds of first word latency. At least XMP was enabled out of the box, as was Rebar, but this was also the only system that didn't arrive with a Windows recovery environment. This could be because of the technician's instructions during our support call, but I'm still gonna have to dock a couple marks, because they should have had us fix it. And I'm gonna have to dock some marks for another big issue with this system. This might be more on MSI than it is on iBuyPower, but you cannot, for whatever reason, easily upgrade to a regular MSI BIOS on boards that are used by system integrators. JohnEvans-BC3MK brought this up in the comments on an earlier part of this series, after they discovered that they couldn't use direct memory access on a system from main gear, and there was no way to run the update from MSI's site that should enable it. Now we didn't run into that, but our test technician Jon did notice that MSI Center wasn't installed properly, so he figured, okay, easy fix, let's just run Clean Center Master from MSI's website. Didn't work. Then he tried uninstalling and reinstalling with three different versions, from MSI, the Microsoft Store, and Techspot, and no dice. We're not sure why MSI Center seems to be such hot garbage on pre-builts, but there are plenty of other posts complaining about this in one way or another, often on laptops. This is an off-the-shelf board that you could purchase yourself, so we don't understand why this issue is occurring or where it's happening in the chain, but buyer beware until they get this sorted out, which should be now. MSI, now's a good time. We also have a couple of other hardware complaints, mostly to do with the case and the cooler. I mean, front air intake? Who needs it? Hopefully not you. And what are they doing with this wimpy 92 millimeter tower cooler? I mean, it's better than nothing, I guess, but why, when actually good air coolers are so cheap these days? It also doesn't help that our MSI motherboard here was set to water cooler mode, which gives our 13700F access to a whopping 251 watts of juice at power limit one, which is way too much for this piece of junk cooler, as evidenced by our near instant 100 degrees Celsius in Cinebench. Other than that, though, they did pretty well. Tidy cable management, an SSD with a DRAM cache, even if it was on the slower side, and BIOS and GPU drivers that were only a couple of months old. It's also got a 750 watt 80 plus gold rated power supply, which is 50 watts more than the 700 watt that we were supposed to get. Three years labor, one year parts warranty, and an RGB keyboard and mouse, and an Overwatch 2 Invasion Ultimate bundle? Hooray. They also went with a B760 chipset motherboard, which is more in line with our non-K-series processor. Now, I'm going to jump ahead a little bit here, since we were very curious to see how iBUYPOWER's slow memory, and other issues, would affect it in productivity. And surprisingly, it turns out not much. They won the fastest Barbershop blender render, and DaVinci Resolve PugetBench extended test. Honestly, the 46 DTI 8 gig ended up being a little engine that could throw out all of our testing, and the dual fan variant in this system, even managed to stay nice and cool, in spite of the abysmal front air intake on this case. Now, before we get to main gear, we've got a word from our sponsor, Ugreen. With their Nexode Pro 65 watt mini, you can charge a 13 inch MacBook Air from 0 to 70% in just 60 minutes. And with their combination of GaNInfinity chips and Airpyra tech, they're able to make this device tiny, fitting in the palm of your hand, while maintaining the same output as their previous Nexode 65 watt charger. It's also compatible with all modern smartphones, tablets, and laptops, with support for 45 watt Samsung Super Fast Charging 2.0. These GaNInfinity chips are also efficient, putting the green in Ugreen. Now for another 4060 TI build, the MG1 Gold from Maingear. They went with a better air cooler, but a lower tier CPU, and while it's a DDR4 system, hey, at least the memory is snappy DDR4. 3600 megatransfers per second, CL18. Everything except for Windows 11 was pretty up to date, and overall, it looks super clean, with lots of RGB, if you're into that. But we have some pretty serious complaints, once we get under the surface. Really, Maingear? 512 gigs of storage in 2023? Who do you think you are, Apple? This is almost as bad as the single stick of memory that we saw earlier. I mean, we darn near filled this thing up, with just our benchmark suite. XMP was also off, so if you want to actually take advantage of this decent memory kit, make sure you fix that yourself. And it's got an 80 plus bronze rated power supply, compared to the gold rating of most of the others. There was no included battery in the RGB remote, and AMD Ryzen Master was pre-installed, despite this being an Intel system. That's probably just part of the standard software set, that they load onto each system for testing, before it leaves the warehouse. But using the exact same image across AMD and Intel, does come across a little sloppy. This one also did not come with a keyboard and mouse, so you're going to have to purchase those separately. As for what they got right, they killed the support challenge, and I'm happy to say that their zero bloatware advertisement is accurate, other than the Ryzen Master issue that we had. Cable management is great. We got a Windows recovery USB drive, in case we ever need a reset, and there's reasonable airflow with our CPU and GPU, staying cool and quiet while gaming and testing. With this setup, you could easily upgrade this i5 to an i7 down the line. Except the issue is, you're probably going to want to. The 13400F is okay, not great. And it shows, when we get into our Cinebench and DaVinci Resolve testing. Surprisingly though, probably thanks to the faster memory kit, Maingear crushed it during Cinebench GPU testing, and they had the second fastest blender render out of the bunch. Overall, not a bad showing, but we're not ready to talk gaming benchmarks yet. And well, no spoilers. At least not until we've talked about NZXT, who fell victim to one of the classic blunders. This time, a K-series overclocking CPU, on a B-series board that doesn't support overclocking. However, that's actually not nearly as wasteful as the other way around these days, now that CPUs are pretty much overclocked out of the box, and these K-chips are measurably faster, even on B-series boards, regardless of any performance tuning. This system used all four DIMM slots, which could be a bummer for future upgrades, but has 32 gigs of DDR4 running at 3200 megatransfers, CL16 right out of the box, so it's less likely to need an upgrade. And our GPU driver and BIOS were up to date, with Windows 11 in our chipset being less than a year old. We're not sure if NZXT partners with them, or if it's just a happy coincidence, but we've got a lot of gigabyte hardware in here, and considering how rock solid they've been for us recently, that was a pleasant surprise. And Team Purple also managed to add a bunch of extras in the box, including the motherboard pamphlet, original manuals for the power supply, air cooler and SSD, some extra SATA cables, a bunch of case and cooler hardware, including an M2 screw, and the socket cover for the board. Even the H5 Flow case manual. Okay, these aren't extras, but this was probably the most complete experience out of the entire bunch, and the closest to what you'd end up with if you bought all of the parts individually and built it yourself. The only things missing were a mouse and keyboard, but as with the rest of them, these are things that you can choose to add at the time of purchase, or just bring your own. They've also gone with a WD Blue SN580 2TB drive, admittedly, that's a DRAM-less drive, but one that performed well enough in our testing and offered four times the storage of that Maingear drive. Yes, I'm still salty about it. Our system wasn't bogged down by a ton of bloatware, just the standard gigabyte software and NZXT cam. And this was some of the nicest cable management out of the bunch with everything tied up and tucked away for a sleek look. Unfortunately, it's not all sunshine and rainbows here. XMP wasn't enabled and Rebar wasn't on, meaning you're gonna be missing out on some performance if you never enable those options yourself. To its credit, the system stays cool and quiet enough, but if you want it to slap a stronger GPU or CPU in here in the future, you're probably gonna wanna add an extra fan or two at the same time. Thankfully, it's the Flow variant of the H5 case, now with perforations. So there'll be some air for those fans to move. But what about Starforge? At a time where the 4060 Ti seems to be everywhere, the Horizon 2 Prime stood out for having the only AMD GPU in our roundup with a 12 gig 6750 XT. That's a lot of VRAM, especially when everyone's complaining that eight gigs just plain isn't enough anymore. And the software wasn't too old with drivers just a few months out of date and a Windows 11 build from late September, 2022. As for the warranty, StarForge does include great coverage at two years for the hardware, rather than the typical one year that we see for other system integrators. StarForge was also the only system to include sexy cable extensions for all three major visible connectors in their Deepcool CG560 case, which subjectively made this our nicest looking build. Though there are some polarizing elements, like it or not, the Deepcool AK400 cooler has the StarForge Rocket logo on it, which makes the system look a little fleshier, I mean, flashier and more custom than some of the other systems. The only issue I have with any of this is that these extras can end up eating up valuable budget that could have been spent on performance, which as I promised, we're gonna get to very soon. I'm happy to announce that XMP and Rebar were enabled out of the box and there was basically zero bloatware. One minor slip up is it looks like they didn't prep the system properly, as we found a StarForge systems folder, including a WindowsKey.xml file and some test software like OCCT and TestDriver. This is pretty minor. Whoever prepped the system seems to have just forgotten the last step there. And it's good to see that they're testing these systems before they put them out the door. It's just the kind of thing we would like to see cleaned up. There were really only two major issues. The first being that PugetBench DaVinci did not like the system. We're not sure why, could be the AMD GPU, it could be something else. It worked fine with every other computer we tested, but it's getting a big fat did not finish for that test no matter what we tried. And the other is just how much the 12400 CPU in the system drags down performance. I mean, we know that Blender favors Nvidia, so we're not surprised to see this one lose the render race. But what was surprising is just how much of a difference there was in Cinebench with Star Forge coming dead last there as well. But what about the games? I mean, after all, that's why we bought these computers, not to see big numbers in Cinebench and synthetic workloads. Well, in Cyberpunk 2077, everyone stayed above that critical 1% low of 60 FPS at 1080p with HP clearing the second place finisher, iBUYPOWER, by a substantial 8%. Looks like I called this one, guys. What's surprising though is just how close everyone but Dell and CyberPower are. Star Forge, NZXT, Mangear, they're all within a few FPS of each other, not the kind of thing that you would notice in day-to-day gameplay. And if you bump up the resolution, we get pretty similar rankings. F123 sees a similar podium with some minor shuffling in the mid range at either resolution, but both Returnal and Red Dead Redemption 2 at 1440p see a bit of an upset with Starforge's RX 6750 XT system taking second place. It's not by much. And when we scale down to 1080p, they technically lose by one FPS in the 1% lows compared to Mangear and iBUYPOWER who have better CPUs. But overall, I'm happy to report that when it comes to gaming, your GPU is still the most important choice you're gonna make and it's not a terrible decision to pair it even with something like Intel's lowly Core i5-12400, especially if you're going with a mid to performance tier graphics card, at least as long as you are planning to play heavier AAA games. Dota 2, meanwhile, it's more of a lightweight esports title and can end up heavily CPU bottlenecked. And this is the one spot where CyberPower and their Core i7-13700F got their day in the sun. They jumped up from second last to second place when judging by 1% lows, barely losing to iBUYPOWER at 1080p. If we move up to 1440, that 1% lows gap does widen substantially, but they're still way ahead of everyone else on average, especially Starforge where that CPU bottleneck is killing them. Unfortunately for CyberPower, they came in dead last every other time. 1080p, 1440p, it doesn't matter. This was our only RTX 4060 non-Ti system, and as great as the Core i7-13700F is, it is not enough to carry the rest of that build. I was surprised to find that single channel DDR5 isn't nearly as bad as I expected. That virtual second channel on each dim helps it hold up much better than single channel DDR4 would, but it also didn't help enough here. So bottom line, if you're strictly an esports gamer, overspending on a fast CPU is a valid way to go, but then considering how our support call with them went, maybe you could look to someone other than CyberPower if you don't wanna build your own PC. So in a major upset to some, but no surprise to me, HP is our winner this year. Decent packaging, standard, if somewhat OEM flavored parts, the beefiest power supply at 800 watts, solid case design, good cooling, and a great CPU-GPU combo that delivered well-rounded performance across our entire suite. They also had solid customer service, both when purchasing the system and on our tech support call, even if they did give up and ask us to send it back for repair. My only complaint is that if you buy from them, make sure you're ready to run a bunch of updates and enable XMP or AMP as HP lists it in their custom BIOS. Oh, and maybe move that bottom fan intake up or flip the power supply so the air is actually doing something. To everyone who made it through all four parts of this year's Secret Shopper, hey, thanks for watching. These are a lot of fun for us to do and without your support, we can't. And speaking of support, thanks to our sponsor, Ugreen. If that 100-watt Nexode Pro wasn't enough for you, they have a 160-watt charger that can deliver hyper-fast, high-speed 140-watt charging to a single port, letting you charge your 16-inch MacBook Pro from zero to 86% in just one hour. It also fits in the palm of your hand, and they've increased the energy density by 20% compared to the old Nexode 140-watt charger. If three devices isn't enough for you, this guy can charge up to four devices at the same time, ranging from a smartphone to a MacBook Pro. So replace that bulky old AC adapter with this one. With millisecond temperature detection protection from overheating, overcharging, and excessive current, Ugreen's built-in thermal guard system will help keep your devices safe and provide a full, fast charge without damaging your battery longevity. And thanks to their fire-resistant and flame-retardant high-grade PVC shell, it can take quite a tumble without taking damage. Hey, why'd they put that in there? Pick up yours today at the link in the video description. If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe check out the previous episodes of this series, or check out our previous secret shoppers. They are as entertaining as they are informative, at least we think so.