- Today I am embarking on a challenge. I am typing in a very
cleverly-worded phrase into Amazon search, and I have to buy the first non-sponsored
search result I see. So we need to think about
this from the perspective of giving Amazon enough to work with, without being too descriptive. I wanna try to actually trust
the Amazon recommendations to lead me to the promised land. Okay, so, the first thing I need, and this is actually something
I really want for myself, is a new tech bag. Okay, high-quality tech pouch. Enter button is being pressed, now. All right, sponsor, sponsor, sponsor. First actual result, travel
gear tech bag organizer! This actually looks nice. Wait a minute. Yeah,
yeah, yeah, this works. 44.95, what could go wrong? You know what I need for my pouch? I need a cheap 5G smartphone! (groans) Sponsor, sponsor, and I don't wanna look. Samsung Galaxy A13, $263! Look at that chin! What is this, 2017? Do I have to? - [Ken] Yes. - We might not be off to a great start, but I have confidence that
we can bring this back. I'm feeling bold, I'm feeling adventurous. Weird electronics. (screaming) It's a $5,000 projector! Whoops, oh, I accidentally
exited pay. Oh no! I accidentally just... - [Ken] That to our cart real quick. - I am frightened, terrified, petrified, of what I'm about to get next. - [Ken] Austin Evans. - You want me to type in
the words, Austin Evans, and just buy it? - Yeah.
- What's it, it's not gonna be on here. - Oh, no, there's an
auto-complete for Austin Evans. I don't like that. - Oh, what? "Steve: A Tale of Ghosts,
Death Cults, and Victory Pizza" by Austin Curtis Evans. - [Kinsey] You got a competitor. - Steve is a beer-guzzling monster hunter who's very good at his job, until he accidentally kills a pizza guy that was in the wrong place
at the wrong time. (laughing) Budget gaming keyboard. - [Ken] Is this just cause you don't wanna spend a lot of money on a keyboard?
- Yes, it is. The MageGee! What the [censored] is a MageGee? For 30 bucks! I mean, you know what, for 30
bucks, what could go wrong? Let's go, MageGee. I'm not gonna look, I'm not
gonna look, I'm not gonna look. MacBook Air, $224! Hey, that's actually not bad. All right, we're-
- Funny iPhone case. - Okay, I'm not sure if I should be listening
to you guys right now. Are you sabotaging me, or
are you trying to help? - [Kinsey] Trying to help. - That was a really
quiet, "Trying to help." I don't think I believe that. - [Kinsey] We're making
good content. (laughing) - Is that a pig butt you can squeeze on the back of the case? I will be taking no more
suggestions from the group. I'm gonna drive the ship now. YouTube camera for YouTubers. You know, they don't show
any photos of the actual, oh, there, that's it. Oh, oh, that's not as good. Well, I'll see you in a moment after I press the order button on this terrible, terrible decision. - You have to run 1,000.
- What's up, MKB8K here. - He has to run.
- Today, we're here with the crispiest tech videos
- Oh yeah, okay. - of all time.
(Ken groans) Excuse me, I've gotta jump
in my Tesla real quick. I'm gonna do a studio tour,
maybe a little desk setup. How do you feel about Android
phones? I'm a huge fan. Frisbee! (blowing air) (Ken laughing) I need to become a more
well-rounded tech YouTuber. And the way to do it is not by buying expensive cameras, oh no. Here, can you hold this pile of garbage? I just need to lean into my
ABCs of being a tech YouTuber. To be clear, this is a actual book that Linus Tech Tip
Sebastian wrote himself. For my little gamers. A is for arcade. Do you want to have some fun? Insert two coins please, player one. C is for clickbait. This is what I do to
get views on my videos. Oh wait, no, I'm sorry. That
was the wrong page, oops. T is for tech. When it comes to tips, I've got a lot. - [Ken] No, it does not. No, no way.
- It says that, it says that. It says that.
- It does not. - Thanks to Amazon, we have
learned how to be MKBHD. We've learned how to be
Linus Tech Tips himself. But you know who I wanna
be today? Austin Evans. - [Joanna] (laughing) Sorry. - What's so funny about Austin Evans? - [Joanna] (laughing) Nothing. - So you may not know this about me. In my downtime, which I have lots of, I am a prolific novelist, and have written many acclaimed stories, such as, "Steve: A Tale
of Ghosts, Death Cults, and Victory Pizza." Look at that, Austin Evans. Above the boots were a pair of jeans that had faded the old-fashioned way, and a White Snake shirt that had been picked up
at a concert decades ago. I'm already asleep. This is terrible. Let's move on to better Amazon items, 'cause I don't remember writing that. Been on a little bit
of an adventure so far, but the most important
part of being a YouTuber isn't your Red, isn't your
expensive server setup, isn't your questionably-written novels. Oh no, my friends, it's
about making videos. And you know how I make videos? With a camcorder. Wow! If you have giant hands,
this is a great grip for it. We've got a hot shoe, very important. A cold shoe, technically. We've got a lens cap, which dangles, so, nice audio as you're filming. I will say one thing, though,
look at that USB-C port. Now, that, my friend, is some tech. Our digital professional microphone. Welcome. (camera blings) - [Ken] Oh, that's nice. - [Austin] Okay, we are now recording, using my professional YouTube camera. So that's Ken. - Hi. - [Austin] I'm gonna zoom
in on you real quick, so.
- Okay, digitally? - Nope, that's optical.
That's super high quality. All right, let's see this
beautiful image quality. Okay, we are now recording, using my professional- That's not crispy, that's deep-fried. This is a case, not just for anything. Oh no, my friends. It is a butt case. (laughing) Does anyone have a 14 Pro? - [Joanna] Yeah. - Thank you for the donation!
- Oh wow, I need a case. - Well.
- Convenient. - [Austin] Oh yeah, look at that! It's like a squishy pop socket
that feels a little gross. Try, use it like a pop socket,
like with your hand there. - Oh, you can put your pinky there. - [Austin] Yeah, you can put your pinky - Wow.
- underneath the butt. At what point do we need to
start censoring this item is my concern here.
- It's cute, though. - It is cute. And then you tap.
- It has the pig. Okay, well, not when you do.
- No, don't do that. Don't do that. (case rattling) - Sounds like quality. For 40 bucks, man, how
could I possibly go wrong? Wow, those are cool! So cool! They do have USB-C and an aux. You've got noise-canceling and
Bluetooth as a button here. I mean, these look all right. For context, I paid $40
for these headphones. I'm very, very confident that they're gonna be
totally worth my money. (clears throat) So, I'm gonna hit the button once, ANC on. Technically, that is
active noise canceling. The problem is, is that
it is incredibly subtle. Like, it doesn't really cancel much noise. Like, just putting the headphones on, like, just passively removes
a lot more of the noise. My bigger concern though, is that you hear, like,
a high-pitched noise. It's like, it's like,
(hums) like the whole time. Like, it's a little subtle. Eh. Let's listen to some music, and it's gonna make me feel a
whole lot better about this. I'm gonna just feel great. 40 bucks, remember, $40. (crickets chirping) - [Ken] Oh, Jesus Christ. - Okay, wow, I'm so happy
they don't sound bad, and I did something right finally! - [Ken] All right, well,
I'll be the judge of that. - Nope, nope, that's fine. For 40 bucks, you could do so much worse. Those might be some of
my favorite headphones that I've ever tried, under like 50 bucks. Now when I was looking for
a cheap 5G smartphone. Thankfully, Jeffy B came through with a banger of a recommendation. All right, inside, we've got
ourselves the phone itself. Okay, so, I'm surprised at how big it is, my first impression. It's just, it's so big in my hand. - That's what she said! (laughs) - Michael. - [Austin] Also very green.
I actually like this color. - Green?
- That's blue. - No, that's blue-green. - Here's a tree.
- Uh-huh. - A lot of green on it. - Yep, does appear.
- Look at your shirt. That's blue.
- That's blue. This is blue-green. - [Joanna] (chuckles) No. - On the back, it looks
actually very similar to the design language that Samsung use for their higher-end phones. There's no camera bump or anything. You just have the three little cameras, which, I will say, based on, I think, my
memory of the listing, it's like, only one of these
is, like, the main camera. Then it's like a macro and a depth sensor, which are essentially useless. Man, this is not a great LCD. I would just say, like, I
can, on the white screen, it's gonna be a little
hard to see on camera. I can see, like, little
bits of, like, ghosting. Like, it almost looks like it's an OLED that's been burned in a little bit. Oh my God. If I wanted to get the A13,
mind you, this is renewed, Amazon's selling it for $114 right now. Am I gonna look on the
bright side of the situation, now that I've spent $260, or $80, or whatever this thing was, on a device, which is immediately half
the price, and not great? I'm just gonna spin it. Why don't we take some photos? Why don't we see just
how great this camera is? Wow! It's like my hand
is right in front of me! This is incredible! - [Ken] (chuckling) It is in front of you. (both laughing) - That's, the colors are impeccable.
- Flattering, wonderful. - Ken, would you say that
you are a fan of music? - [Ken] Yeah. - Would you say that you're
a fan of Japanese music? - [Ken] Yeah, a lot. - Well, have I got the item for you. - The Otamatone? - If you take a look at the front here, it's Japan's favorite musical toy. - Yeah. - But if you look on the
back, it's from mywadenki.com. - Oh! - See? If you're not familiar, Ken is the host of the very successful,
Denki YouTube channel. Denki is Japanese for electric. - Thank you! - [Austin] So, do you remember
when was the first time we took a look at an Otamatone? 'Cause it was like episode
two or three of mystery tech, like five years ago. - [Ken] It was a long time ago. - Right?
- Yeah. (Ken playing instrument) - [Joanna] That's so cool! (chuckles) (Ken continues playing instrument) - Okay, Bill Clinton, calm down! - [Joanna] What? (crew laughing) - Wow! What a delightful weird
tech item from Amazon.com. (jazzy music) So when we searched for
cheap tech gadget on Amazon, a way to enjoy my life sounds
like a great way of doing it. Oh, what the, who wants
a sleep mask this big? Bluetooth, music, calling? Wait, I guess it's got a microphone too, so you can literally be
like, walking around like, "Yes, yes, yes, the KPIs are great. Sell the stock." So we've got a couple of
controls on the front. So we've got volume up,
volume down, as well as power. A little lump here, for, I'm assuming, where the buttons are, and maybe a battery? We've got a female USB-C,
so this is kind of, I'm assuming that you can
plug this in and charge it, and then you just tuck it away when you don't want it anymore. And then I do feel, on the side, part of the reason why
the thing is so wide, is you got yourself two little speakers. After a long, hard day of
pretending to make content, it's time to take a little nap. So, I'm gonna go pull up
my favorite music lullaby, "Sea Shanty 2." You know what, I'm actually gonna say, for 25 bucks, this is not a bad idea. So it's relatively comfortable. It's a little bit annoying to have these sort of
speakers over your ears, but it's not bad. Like, it's better than
having, like, earbuds in, and it definitely blocks the
light out relatively well. Like, if I'm trying to
just block the world out, I don't wanna hear things, I don't wanna, like, see anything, I actually kinda like this. This might be the item
I am most interested in. So, a few months ago, we did a video, buying a bunch of cheap Macs on Amazon. And I will say, that it did
not go particularly well. So when I type the words,
cheap Mac in Amazon, and let Bezos take the wheel,
this is what showed up. So this is listed as a 2014
base model 11-inch MacBook Air, which means it's got the Core i5, only four gigs of RAM, and 128-gig SSD. I still think this is
probably a better move than actually spending $169 on, like, an HP Stream or something. But let's take a look, let's take a look. This was, on the Amazon
page, listed as, "Refurbished but in poor cosmetic condition," right? So if it's a little
scratched up, it's fine, 'cause we saved ourselves
like, 20 bucks, 30 bucks, compared to the regular one. And importantly, this
little yellow sticker says, "Ready for reuse, full function tested." Here goes nothing. (quiet upbeat music) What? That's in bad cosmetic condition? Okay.
- Still gotta see what the inside is. (laughs) - Yeah, I'll take a look
at the inside in a second. So, there is a scratch along the bottom, but I would say that's very minor. So this has 100% been dropped,
I would say, on this corner. When I buy a laptop that says, "in poor cosmetic
condition," this is not bad. But I think the question's gonna be, what does it look like
when we open it up, ready? And totally fine! There is one little dent
underneath the display, as well as a smaller one over here, but that's not really
gonna affect anything. Trackpad is totally fine,
keyboard is nicely cleaned. Let's see if it fires up, though. That'll be the real question. Let's go! Jeffy B, my boy, yeah, led me to the promised land of a cheap Mac. Unlike last time, in
which you took my money, and gave me a bunch of garbage town stuff. This actually has, we got USB 3.0, headphone jack, and MagSafe,
as well as another USB 3.0, and a little Thunderbolt 2 port. We certainly got lucky, I think, with the cosmetic condition of this, but at $170, pretty good. Oh, interesting! So they didn't
categorize this correctly. It's not a 2014, it's a 2015 MacBook. So I will say, the
battery is only showing up with 72% charge, which is weird because it only has 118 cycles,
which is not much at all. But they did claim that this would have 80% charge or better. So I'll say, that's a
little bit of a concern. 100%, the biggest problem with this device is the lack of a retina display. I mean, even, like, a 1080p
display is so much more usable, not only just because of the sharpness and the contrast and everything, but also just the simple fact of you've got so little
screen real estate, right? Like, you can't even multitask that well. You put two windows side
by side, they're tiny. If you wanna get yourself into a relatively decent
modern Mac, not bad. I just wish they would've
given me a better battery. Welcome, my friends, to the MageGee, the best budget gaming keyboard
on Amazon, theoretically. I don't know if I like that noise. That's not a good keyboard noise. Let's just keep our minds
around the idea, $27. Oh, they have a bunch of key caps! That's actually really nice, for 27 bucks. So they advertise this as a 60% keyboard. It does have the arrows, though. You do have the dual-stage feet too. So you can just pop out the
lower ones, or the full foot. I actually kinda like the key caps that they've given us, too. They're very plain-looking, but I don't think that's really a problem. All right, gonna give it first try, see how this keyboard is. (quiet upbeat music) 73 words per minute on my first try. So, a few things. These switches do feel kind of cheap. There's definitely a little bit of a delay as you sort of compress the key down. It doesn't pop up as
quickly as I would like. It's not the most amazing
keyboard I've ever tried, but, I mean, if this was 40 bucks, I'd still think it's decent. And at $27, this is
legitimately worth picking up. Just, it's a low-end mechanical
keyboard for a reason. Those switches are not amazing. So when I searched high-quality tech bag, this is not quite what I had in mind. So this is a tech pouch and electronics organizer in dusty teal. So they've got a little
bit of padding in here. So you got a bunch of little,
like, slots and organizers. You've got, oh, a bunch of 'em. You got a little zipper
compartment, more slots, and then a little, like, mesh pouch? So, it feels good. This is obviously meant to be living inside of a backpack or something, where you can keep everything
nice and organized. But for $45, I'm gonna
give this a soft thumbs up. Obviously, I've gotta put my green phone, oh, oh, oh, oh, look at that! That's a good, that's almost a match. - Wow, actually though.
- Almost a match. - [Joanna] It's still not green. - It's dusty teal. As someone who has purchased a cute game controller or
two in my day, the Kinvoca is about the cutest
controller I've ever used. This was $36, which is certainly cheaper than, like, a pro controller or something, but also, that's not,
like, super, super cheap. Look how tiny it is! Look at my hands on this controller. I didn't realize how small it
was, looking at the listing! This is clearly for people
with little baby hands. - [Joanna] Or kids. - Oh, kids exist. I forgot about that. - You have two of them.
- Ya have one. - It's fine. It looks really cute, though. You got the ears, you've got your sticks. Does have USB-C, as well as a sync, and it does have an
aux jack on the bottom. Let's sync it up, shall we? - [Ken] Oh, they light up! - Oh my God, that's cool! So I will say, it does feel like there's a little bit of latency. I dunno if it's just
the regular Bluetooth, but like, I feel like
there's like, a half second between when I do anything
and anything actually happens. There we go! That's
what I'm talking 'bout. Buying this for kids,
they're just playing, like, Mario Kart, or
whatever, totally fine. (upbeat dance music) (upbeat dance music continues)