On May 18th, 2020, heavy rainfall in 
Michigan raised the level of Wixom   Lake - a man-made reservoir impounded 
by Edenville Dam - higher than it had   ever gone before. As the reservoir 
continued to rise the following day,   the dam suddenly broke, sending a wall of 
water downstream. As it traveled along the   Tittabawassee River, the flood wave reached and 
quickly overpowered the Sanford Dam downstream.   The catastrophic failure of the two dams impacted 
more than 2,500 structures and caused more than   200-million-dollars in damage. The independent 
forensic team charged with investigating the event   released an interim report on the failures 
in September 2021. The conclusions of the   report include a discussion of a relatively 
rare phenomenon in earthen dams. Let’s walk   through the investigation to try and understand 
what happened. I’m Grady, and this is Practical   Engineering. In today’s episode, we’re talking 
about the failures of Edenville and Sanford Dams. Edenville and Sanford Dams were two of four 
dams owned by Boyce Hydro Power along the   Tittabawassee River in Michigan. The dams were 
built in the 1920s to generate hydroelectricity.   Edenville Dam was constructed just upstream 
of the confluence with the Tobacco River.   It was an earthfill embankment dam 
with two spillways and a powerhouse.   The water impounded by the dam formed a reservoir 
called Wixom Lake, nearly the entire perimeter of   which was surrounded by waterfront homes. State 
highway 30 bisected the dam along a causeway,   splitting the lake between the two rivers with 
a small bridge to allow water to flow between   the two sections of the reservoir. Sanford Dam 
downstream was a similar structure as Edenville,   but not nearly as long. It consisted of an 
earthen embankment, a gated spillway, an emergency   spillway, and a powerhouse for the turbines, 
generators, and other hydroelectric equipment. Edenville Dam, in particular, had a long 
history of acrimony and disputes between the   dam owner and regulatory agencies. Most dams that 
generate hydroelectricity in the US are subject   to oversight by the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (or FERC). But, Edenville Dam had   its license to generate hydropower revoked in 2018 
when the owner failed to comply with FERC’s safety   regulations. Their report listed seven concerns, 
the most significant of which was that the dam   didn’t have enough spillway capacity. As a result, 
if a severe storm were to come, the dam wouldn’t   be able to release enough water to prevent the 
reservoir level from climbing above the top of   the structure, overtopping it and likely causing 
it to fail. After losing the license to generate   hydropower, jurisdiction over the dam fell to the 
State of Michigan, where disagreements about its   structural condition, spillway capacity, 
and water levels in Wixom Lake continued. The days before the failure had already been 
somewhat rainy, with small storms moving through   the area. But heavy rain was in the forecast for 
May 18th. The deluge arrived early that morning,   and it didn’t take long for the water levels 
in Wixom Lake to begin to rise. By 7 AM,   operators at the dam had started opening gates on 
both spillways to release some of the floodwaters   downstream. Gate operations continued throughout 
the day as the reservoir continued rising.   At 3:30 PM, all six gates (three at each 
spillway) were fully opened. From then on,   there was nothing more operators could 
do to get the floodwater out faster,   and the level in Wixom Lake continued to creep 
upwards. That night, the lake reached the highest   level in its history, only about 4 feet or 
1.3 meters below the top of the earthen dam. At daybreak on May 19th, it was already clear 
that Edenville Dam was struggling from the   enormous forces of the flood. Operators noticed 
severe erosion from the quickly flowing water   in the reservoir near the east spillway along 
the embankment. Regulators and dam personnel   met to review the damage, and a contractor was 
brought in to deploy erosion control measures.   And still, the water kept rising. By 5 PM, Wixom Lake had risen to within around a 
foot (or 30 centimeters) from the top of the dam.   As crews worked to mitigate the 
erosion problems in other places,   eyewitnesses noticed a new area of depression 
on the far eastern end of the dam. This part   of the embankment hadn’t been a significant 
point of focus during the flood because it   wasn’t experiencing visible erosion, but it was 
apparent something serious had happened. Photos   from a few hours earlier didn’t show anything 
unusual, but now the top of the embankment sank   down nearly to the reservoir level. Eyewitnesses 
moved to the nearby electrical substation to get   a better look at this part of the dam. Within 
only a few moments, the embankment failed.   Lynn Coleman, a Michigander and one of the 
bystanders, caught the whole thing on camera. Over the next two hours, all of Wixom Lake drained 
through the breach in the dam. Water rushing   through the narrow gap in the causeway washed 
out the highway bridge, and all of the waterfront   homes and docks around the entire perimeter of the 
lake were left high and dry. As the floodwaters   rushed through the breach into the river, the 
level downstream in Sanford Lake rose rapidly.   By 7:45, the reservoir was above the dam’s crest, 
quickly eroding and breaching the structure. With   the combined volumes of Wixom and Sanford Lakes 
surging uncontrolled down the Tittabawassee River,   downstream communities including Sanford, 
Midland, and Saginaw were quickly inundated.   Google Earth shows aerial imagery before, during, 
and after the flood, so you can really grasp the   magnitude of the event. More than 10,000 people 
were evacuated, and flooding damaged more than   2,500 structures. Amazingly, no major 
injuries or fatalities were reported. In their interim report on the event, the 
independent forensic team considered a broad range   of potential explanations for what happened at 
Edenville Dam. Although the spillway for the dam   was undersized per state regulations, this storm 
event didn’t completely overwhelm the structure.   The level in Wixom Lake never actually 
went higher than the top of the embankment,   so overtopping (one of the most common causes 
of dam failure, including the cascading loss of   the downstream Sanford Dam) was eliminated as 
a possible cause of failure for Edenville Dam. The team also looked at internal erosion, 
a phenomenon I’ve covered on this channel   before that has resulted in many significant 
dam failures. Internal erosion involves water   seeping through the soil and washing it away 
from the inside. However, this type of erosion   usually happens over a longer time period 
than what was witnessed at Edenville Dam.   No water seepage exiting the downstream face of 
the embankment or eroding soil was evident in   the time leading up to the breach, ruling this 
mechanism out as the main cause of failure. The forensic team determined that the actual 
cause of the failure was static liquefaction,   a relatively unusual mechanism for an earthen dam.   Soils are kind of weird but don’t 
tell that to geotechnical engineers.   Because they are composed of many tiny particles, 
they can behave like solids in some cases   and liquids in others. Of course, most of our 
constructed environment depends on the fact   that soils mainly behave like solids, providing 
support to the things we build on top of them. Liquefaction happens when soil experiences 
an applied stress, like an earthquake,   that causes it to behave like a liquid, and it 
mostly happens in cohesionless soils - those where   the grains don’t stick together, such as sand. 
When a body of cohesionless soil is saturated,   water fills the pore spaces between 
each particle. When a load is applied,   the water pressure within the soil increases, 
and if it can’t flow out fast enough, it forces   the particles of soil away from each other. A 
soil’s strength is derived entirely from the   friction between the interlocking particles. So, 
when those grains no longer interlock, the ground   loses its strength. Some of the most severe damage 
from earthquakes comes from the near-instant   transformation of underlying soils from solid to 
liquid. Buildings sink into their foundations,   sewer lines float to the surface, and 
roads crumble without underlying support. Liquefaction typically requires cyclical 
loading, like during an earthquake   or extreme, sudden displacements to trigger 
the flow. Gradual increases in loading will   only cause the water within the soil to flow 
out, equalizing the pore water pressure. But,   some soils can reach a point of instability and 
liquefy under sustained or gradually increasing   loading conditions in certain circumstances. 
This phenomenon is known as static liquefaction.   A good analogy is the difference between glass and 
steel. Both materials have a linear stress-strain   curve at first. In simple terms, the harder you 
push, the harder they push back. But both reach   a point of peak strength, beyond which a soil 
will fail or deform. Well-compacted sand is   like steel. It fails with ductile behavior. If 
you stress it beyond its strength, it deforms,   but the strength is still there. In other words, 
if you want to keep deforming it, you have to keep   applying a force at its peak strength. On the 
other hand, loose sand is like glass. If you push   it beyond its peak strength, it fails with brittle 
behavior, suddenly losing most of its strength. The independent forensic team took samples of 
the soils within the Edenville Dam embankment   and subjected them to testing to see if they were 
liquefiable. The tests showed brittle collapse   behavior necessary for static liquefaction. 
They also reviewed construction records and   photographs where no compaction equipment was 
seen. The team concluded that as the level of   Wixom Lake rose that fateful May evening, it 
increased the hydraulic load on the embankment,   putting more stress on the earthen structure than 
it had ever been asked to withstand. In addition,   the higher levels may have introduced water 
from the reservoir to permeable layers of   the upper embankment (as evidenced by the 
depression that formed before the failure),   increasing seepage and thus increasing the pore 
water pressure of saturated, uncompacted, sandy   soils within the structure. Eventually, the peak 
strength of the embankment soil was surpassed,   and a brittle collapse resulted, liquefying 
enough soil to breach a downstream section   of the dam. A few seconds later, lacking 
support from the rest of the structure,   the dam’s upstream face collapsed, and 
all of Wixom Lake began rushing through. Edenville Dam was built in the 1920s before most 
of our current understanding of geotechnical   engineering and modern dam safety standards 
existed. Most dams are earthen embankment dams,   but modern ones are built much differently 
than this one was. Embankments are constructed   slowly from the bottom up in individual layers 
called lifts. This lets you compact and densify   every layer before moving upward, rather than 
just piling up heaps of loose material. We use   gentle slopes on embankments to increase long-term 
stability since soils are naturally unstable on   steep slopes. We have strict control over the 
type of soil used to construct the embankment,   constantly testing to ensure 
the properties match or exceed   the assumptions used during design. We 
often build an embankment of multiple zones.   The core is made of clay soils that are highly 
impermeable to seepage, while the outer shells   have less stringent specifications. We include 
rock riprap or other armoring on the upstream face   so that waves and swift water in the reservoir 
can’t erode the vulnerable embankment. And,   we include drains that both relieve pressure 
so it can’t build up within the soil and   filter the seepage to prevent it from washing away 
soil particles from inside or below the structure.   Edenville Dam actually did have a primitive 
internal drainage system made from clay tiles,   but many of the drains in the area of the failure 
appeared to be missing in a recent inspection. Although it seems like an outlier, the story of 
Edenville and Sanford Dams is not an unusual one.   There are a lot of small, old dams across the 
United States built to generate hydropower in   a time before everyone was interconnected with 
power grids. Over time, the revenue that comes   from hydropower generation gradually declines 
as the maintenance costs for the facility and   the danger the dam poses to the public both 
increase. However, the reservoir created by the   dam is now a fixture of the landscape, elevating 
property values, creating communities and tourism,   and serving as habitat for wildlife. You end up 
with a mismatch of value where most of the dam’s   benefits are borne by those who don’t incur any 
responsibility for its upkeep or liability for the   threat it poses to downstream communities. Even 
owners with the best intentions find themselves   utterly incapable of good stewardship. Combine all 
that with the fact that the regulatory authorities   are often underfunded and lack the resources to 
keep a good eye on every dam under their purview,   and you get a recipe for disaster. After all, 
there’s only so much you can do to compel an   owner to embark on a multimillion-dollar 
rehabilitation project for an aging dam   when they don’t have the money to do it and 
won’t derive any of the benefits as a result. Since the failure, the dam owner Boyce Hydro filed 
for bankruptcy protection, and the counties took   control of the dams with a nonprofit coalition of 
community members and experts to manage repair and   restoration efforts. Of course, there’s a lot more 
to this story than just the technical cause of the   failure, and the final Independent Forensic Team 
report will have a deeper dive into all the human   factors that contributed to the failure. They 
expect that report to be released later in 2021.   Dams are inherently risky structures, 
and it’s unfortunate that we have to keep   learning that lesson the hard way. Thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think!