- Is this just like a- - Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, stop,
stop, stop, stop, stop, stop. - But where are they? (hardware clattering) Really? By an order of magnitude, this (boxes thudding) will be the single, most expensive
unboxing we've ever done. Inside these boxes, this
crate, this server rack, this additional box, and
this final box over here, this monster server from Supermicro is everything that we need to deploy a server with
a petabyte of SSDs. Kioxia provided the SSDs,
they sponsored this video, it has been a year in the making, and we are about to see
performance to likes of which we have never seen and
may well never see again, realistically like- - [Jake] Yeah. - In our lifetime. - [Jake] They're not even
just SSDs, they're NVMe SSDs. - Let's bring back (beep), that's a series we haven't
done in a while, (beep). - (beep). - [Linus] (beep). (bright music) - I think that server's
worth like $100,000 so- - $100,000 server you say. - Something like that. - Well, let's move it gently then. There's gonna be a whole
follow up video detailing the exact architect, yeah.
- Follow up videos. - There's gonna be multiple
videos detailing the setup and architecture of a petabyte of flash because while Kioxia does make such high capacity NVDMe SSDs now, that you could pretty
easily build a server with a petabyte of flash accessible to it, but in order to get the full performance out of it.
(Jake laughing) (both laughing) Oh my goodness.
- Oh my God. - You gotta do something a little special. - I don't think I'm gonna
let you pick this one up. - You know, you gotta give Nvidia credit. (Jake chuckling) - It looks pretty special. - Does their hardware have sex appeal or does it have sex appeal? - I think this is just the module, this actually slots into the main server. - So what are we looking at here? - So each of these is
an Nvidia A100, 80 gig, so we've got eight of them,
Nvidia linked together, that's- - 640 gigabytes of VRAM. - Yep. - Video memory. (Jake chuckling) These cards alone are probably worth more than any other individual server we own.
- I think this thing, this unit is almost $100,000,
just this part of it. - And what are these? Are these just like some kind of- - [Jake] I think that's just power delivery.
- I expect- - They asked us not to take them off but- - Oh really? - We already have have it so like, we can just do it anyways. - I mean, Nvidia can't
hate us anymore can they? - They will. - No, they probably can, you know what? Let's not piss off the
enterprise guys because- - This looks like power delivery. - Can I just say that it's
all sponsored by Kioxia who provided the flash but Nvidia has been
absolute bros and broettes about this whole thing 'cause we wouldn't have been
able to do it without them. So, I guess yeah, let's pick it up. - Why don't we move this off of the server so we at least have somewhere to put this? - Well, I'm gonna know what's under it, oh wait, that's it.
- The server, ah, yes. - Oh, that's why the box was so big. - Yeah, oh, look at those rails. - I know right, these are chunk-tastic. - Let's just, yeah, let's
just lift this out of the... Put it on top of that? Sure.
- Sure. - That's safe. - So how did this even come to be? Now, I've been babysitting this for- - A year. - A year but ideally wasn't there for the first conversation. - What happened was, Kioxia has worked with
us a number of times and they were looking for some kind of cool SSD-related video to do. - Cool, you say. - I took an absolute long shot, 'cause this was after we'd
already seen the appetite for a petabyte project on the channel but they're a flash vendor and I was like, "Well, it would have to be
SSDs and it would have to be," and I thought they were gonna come back with something way
smaller, don't tell Kioxia but they would've gotten away
with like a quarter of this. (Jake laughing) But I was like, "Well it's gonna, it can't be smaller than
what we've done before," and they were like, "Oh, this is actually a very interesting engineering challenge from our standpoint, let's see who we can partner with to try and make this happen." - And the answer was
Supermicro, AMD, Weka, fricking everyone you could possibly name in the server space. - So, how does this fricking work? Okay, let's lift this boy up, we're gonna start at the back
which is a little unusual. This is our head unit. (Jake laughing) (both laughing) This is PCIe over fiber, because the SSDs don't actually
go in the control unit, this is where all the compute lives. In order to do this kind of throughput, you need a very, very exotic,
very powerful solution. The SSDs themselves- (Jake laughing) - This is the size of an ATX power supply. - Are gonna live in additional units that we're gonna unbox
in a few minutes here. - Holy, just-
- How many watts are these? - (beep). This is a 3000 watt power supply. - Can we even power this? - I've never actually seen one
of these plugs properly used. (Jake laughing) - I'm just curious what is in here? Oh.
- Oh God. - Oh, wait, what? is this just like a- - Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah,
this'll be like a... Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop. - So you gotta unscrew it then. - No, sorry, I meant this part. - Oh, yeah, okay, now you're right. - Stop though, you gotta
take this side out. - Well, I thought you were gonna. Oh.
- I don't have a screwdriver. - What are you doing? What are you doing over here? You're just- - Waiting for you to
hand me the screwdriver. - Well, hooey. - Hooey. - Okay.
(Jake laughing) - Oh my God, what even is that? - So here's what we're looking at, we've got our PCIe over fiber cards here. - These are just Nvidia
ConnectX-6, 200 gig cards. - Wow. - There's eight of them. - And then we've got more
PCIe, so you can see we've got, (Linus groaning) there you go right there, okay? We got a little bit more PCIe to these NVMe base at the back here, so you got four more of those and then you've got a
little bit more PCIe, okay? Up here, and that's going to this which is probably like a dual 10 gig card or something like that that's just for,
- It might just be gigabit, like for management. You know what? I know you like that much
PCIe, I gotta tell you, this one, there's more PCIe. (Jake laughing)
- Oh, are you serious? So this unit can take a
total of 10 NVMe drives and then it has another
eight PCIe 16x slots, then there were those NVMe
connectors I didn't recognize to the sleds at the back. - And then there's all the A100s. - Oh my goodness. So do we slide it in? - [Jake] I think we should
put it in the rack first. - They have to be EPYCs of some sort. - [Jake] Oh, they are, dual 64 part.
- Okay. - Where are they? Oh, they're in the top,
they're in like the very top. - Yeah. - So there's the PCIe lanes for the A100s that just sit under it, very cool. - I don't know how to take
this out 'cause kinda- - I wonder if it got hit a
little actually in shipping. - Looks a little worn, yeah.
- Looks a little bored. - Oh boy. - Oh boy. - Oh, there's a screw right here. - Oh, there's your problem. (Jake laughing) - You got this? Don't drop it.
- I got it. I got it, dual 64 core EPYCs, I have to assume that that slakes.
- That means 713. Is this two terabytes of Samsung memory? - The spec sheet said 256 but I don't actually know who sent it. Okay, here, let's just pop one out. - Oh, boy. - They're not gonna like this. That's a 64 gig DIMM, dual
rank, 3,200 megahertz Samsung, well it's Supermicro memory, so- - Yeah, - This is a qualified- - So 64 gigs, that would make this yeah- - 32, 2 terabytes. - 2 terabytes of RAM. - Ah, look at those, these things must scream.
- Fricking real. - [Linus] Yeah, these fans- - What are those, 40 mills? - Gotta be absolutely ridiculous. - [Jake] This is a lot
of hardware in one box. - On fricking real, love the
air flow management here, gotta put basically all
of it through the CPUs. - The RAMs, I could have a little bit.
- The Rams are slightly, yeah, come on, maybe there's
a little bit of cooling. - Look, its like a tiny little spot there. - Yeah. - These VRM heatsinks are
like, "I don't need much." (both laughing) - There's business level hardware (hardware clattering) and then there's
enterprise level hardware. This thing is unbelievably heavy. There is a lot of fricking cooling in it, it's like a solid ass block of aluminum.
- Okay, it's very heavy, yes I understand, let's put
it in the goddamn thing. Huh? - How many watts- - Oh, look at that, they
got flappers, what the hell? - Holy crap, the fan itself is this thick. - Yeah, wait now, is there two in there? - Crazy. - May be two in there. - So there's two blades, see this? - Yeah, there's two blades.
- So you've got this blade is swept this way. - They spin independently. - And then this one is swept this way because if you want more static pressure, you can't put two fans
that spin the same way, there's some kind of
aerodynamics thing that makes it so that doesn't work very well, they have to be spinning
counter to each other. We didn't really consider that when we assembled this up here, we were going to have to bring it down. - Yeah. - Okay, plan.
- Where are we gonna put it? - We're gonna put it on
top of the rack for now. - I'll take the light side. - I see, we ready? - Oh my God. - Okay, if we drop this,
like, it's game over. - No, no, we're good,
here's what we're gonna do, this thing already got beat
up to hell in shipping, so we're gonna bring it down like this, go ahead and put it on, yeah. - Here you go little guy. - Oh. - I dunno if little guy
is the right word for it? - Absolute unit guy. This is when you have all the budget 'cause it's not just powerful, it's dense, you gotta remember in the data center, density has a ton of value
because building a data center is the most expensive thing
about building a data center. - So each of these one use servers are gonna be our storage
hosts, there's six of them. - Six? - Six. We gotta put 72 drives in here. - Now you might think,
"Hey guys, this is Austin." (recorder beeping) You might think, "Hey guys, why
didn't you just pick servers that could take more NVMe SSDs?" Well, here's the thing, once you've got high
performance enough SSDs and these are all Kioxia CD6
PCIe Gen-4x4 NVMe drives, you run out of CPU power as well as PCIe for networking as well, so you can't just put as
many drives as you want in each server, you
gotta add more compute, you gotta add more networking. - Yeah, this dual processor, so these are. (Linus groaning) oh gosh. - 32 cores each and a far more reasonable, I'm guessing this is 512 gigs of RAM. - [Jake] It says 256 but
I think this is wrong. - Yeah, only 256, and
then of course we've got the Nvidia connectX-6,
200 gigabit network cards that are gonna handle our NVMe over, I guess actually they're
not fiber, are they? 'Cause they're so close. - I think we're gonna
be using direct detect, but you call it NVMe over fiber. - It's NVMe over fiber, just
with fiber, you can go farther. - Is that the boot SSD or what?
- Oh, it's adorable. - Oh my God it just slots right into the- - It's a little, see there,
thumb drive, come on out. - [Jake] I think there's
probably a lock on it. - Oh yeah, there is, look at that, that's so cool.
- These are super cute. - Yeah. Oh look, they even
included a USB Type-B port so you could run and rate on this thing. - Yeah, so the reason
that people use these instead of an internal USB drive is just that the grade of non-flash that gets used for a device
like this tends to be higher, and while honestly, in a
real enterprise deployment, a boot drive failing is probably
not the end of the world. - [Jake] A lot of the time
they're booted over fiber too. - Yeah, it's just, why, right? Just use something better. Now, you might be wondering
why we went AMD EPYC which means you probably haven't
been paying close attention over the last few years but basically these will
boost up to 3.7 gigahertz giving us tons of compute, 64 total cores and they have lightning fast not to mention a ton of PCIe connectivity, so every device in pretty
much this whole rack I think is gonna be running at- - [Jake] Full speed. - Maximum speed. - [Jake] Definitely will. - We don't want any bottlenecks,
we can't have bottlenecks. Before we move on to a couple of more fun
things I noticed about this, these are 20 watt fans, each of them
(both laughing) 80 watts, that's 150 Watts in fans.
- Wait are these, is that just, oh yeah,
they're like the same type. - Yeah, EPYC has so much PCIe that you can just put a PCIe 16x slot just chilling in the
middle of your server, (both giggling) just hanging there. Yes, this is a 200
gigabit card, one of two. Each of these is gonna have a 400 gigabit per second
connection to our head unit. (Jake giggling) - The best part, there's that slot, there's another one back here. - Oh, wow, well that one's at least
accessible from the outside. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - This is just hanging. - They're like, "Man, you
wanna put some NVMe in there?" - You only live once man. Now for the next part, you guys saw this crate
we were using as a table? (Linus groaning)
- Oh, it's very sharp. - What the heck is all this? - Wait, hold on, go down. - What? - I think there might
be more servers in here. - Kioxia, oh, these must be the drives. Oh, what's this from Mella? Oh, excuse me, excuse me, the box says Mellanox
but I mean to say Nvidia. Nvidia acquired Mellanox somewhere in between
this box being printed and us doing this project. (Linus chuckling) - What could be in this box, hmm? Oh.
- Wait, what? Whoa, what? - We originally asked Micron
to send memory for this project but Supermicro was like,
"Oh, it's not qualified yet." (Jake babbling) - Wait, what? - I think these are just eight gig DIMMs. - Eight gig 3,200. - Can I take some of this home? Is it all eight gig? - I don't know. - Well, thanks Micron,
what's behind this door? - In fairness though, there are some really cool cables in here, there's power cables,
those aren't the cool ones, and then there's these guys, these will do 200 gigabit per second and these are the direct
attached copper cables that we're gonna be running
between our head unit and our SSD units. Now, there's networking
gear that's like pretty cool and then there's this, this is a Mellanox, well, Nvidia 3,700 series.
- Oh (beep). - 200 gigabit switch, that's right, each of these ports,
200 gigabit per second. - And it can do it all at
full speed at the same time. - This thing is bananas. - [Bystander] Sorry, what? - They will all do 200 gigabit per second. - It's always fun when you start measuring your
network switches in terabits. - Yeah, the fans are 30 what? 31 fans. - I wanna see how big
are the power supply? (Jake giggling) (hardware clattering) - Really? - I just looked at the
spec sheet of that switch, 12.8 terabit. - Ah, oh, they are, oh, that's
hilarious, we were look... Kioxia, are you guys new
to working with like- - [Jake] No, it matters,
the position matters. - Oh, the position matters. - [Jake] Yeah, don't switch 'em around. - Oh, I was gonna be all like "Kioxia, come on, what's the
fun of unboxing all the SSDs if you don't put them
in a box," but, okay, the position actually matters
a lot for this configuration, so we'll just take a look at this drive and carefully put it back in here. Each of these is 15.36 terabytes and can deliver a total throughput of six gigabytes per second which is impressive considering
that we're gonna have 12 of them per server, so that's 72 gigabytes
a second per server, absolutely mind-boggling numbers but there's even better stuff, so it's obviously using a
completely custom solution, everything from the
controller to the flash is all Kioxia through and through and this puppy can do a
million IOPS per drive, so by the time we're done with this, we are going to be putting everything we have ever done
before to absolute shame. If you don't watch our channel regularly, you might not have heard of Kioxia but we've actually worked
with them a fair bit, they were the first to
deliver a U.3 capable drive, the first to deliver PCIe gen-4.0 drives, they are formerly
Toshiba's flash division, so they've got literally
decades of experience working with this kind of technology, and I'm really excited to
see what these drives can do at their absolute peak. Of course speed's not the entire story and I'm obligated to tell you that they are of course using
the same high quality flash that they use in their
high-end enterprise SAS and other NVMe products with
the same reliability features, and of course also they've
got support for everything from nonencrypted drives
to sanitized instant erase, self-encrypting drive, SCD
FIPS to level 2 certified, if you need it and it's an SSD, Kioxia has something for you. - [Jake] Or something better than you were thinking.
- Or something better. The final piece of the puzzle
is our server rack sort of. (server rack clattering) Let's talk about how we're powering this. (server rack clattering) Oh my goodness, what the
heck is going on here? Is this the most whack power
cord you guys have ever seen? Here it is, next to a
human hand for scale, okay?
- Well, I mean, I don't know about human,
there's a normal hand. - Fricking ridiculous. - These are L6-30s, so
that's 2-40 volt, 30 amp, each of 'em. We didn't actually have
a place to plug these in. - Ah, yeah. - We're gonna be stealing, I think one of the plugs from the welder and then one of the plugs from the mill, I got infinite cables to make
these giant extension cords, they're like just as thick, maybe thicker, so yeah, we can't use
the welder or the router when we run this rack but
I think that'll be okay. Infinite cables also provided
a hundred meter 100 gig cable so we can plug it into
the switch back there. - No. - I guess we'll have to like
run it outside, but yeah. - Guys, this is gonna
be a really fun series, we're gonna go through the
hardware, the software. (Linus giggling) - We're gonna show you AI benchmarks. - Yeah, it's gonna be great. 4 times 12. - 384. - 300 okay, plus another 128.
- Plus another 128, so 512 cores. (Jake laughing) That's the same amount of RAM we have in our main editing server. - We're gonna have 512 cores
and a terabyte of flash. - It's a little bit more than that. - This is gonna be- - A terabyte of flash? - Petabyte, sorry, my brain broke.
- Like 1.1 petabytes, yeah. - That's not possible. - Yeah. - Petabyte of flash. - 12.8. - Petabyte of flash, that's crazy, no one would be crazy enough. Final shout out to everyone who helped. - Kioxia, Nvidia slash Mellanox, whatever you decide you wanna be, AMD. - Micron. - Supermicro, fs.com, Infinite Cables.
- Infinite Cables. - Whoever- - And Jake Tivy, Jake
Tivy, who's been cool and all of our contacts at those places-
- I'm taking all this home afterwards. - You guys have been so
patient, this has been- - It's gonna be a trade show at my house. - If you guys are enjoying this series, maybe go check out the original
petabyte project series that's pretty cool too.
- I Actually don't think the panel in my house has
enough capacity to run this. - I don't think mine does either. (Jake wheezing)