- Hey guys this is Austin. There are a lot of
important things to consider when buying a new computer, but I've got a question for you. What's the most important one when it comes to responsiveness? Is it having an awesome processor? Ton of memory, maybe a huge screen? Or is it your lowly hard drive? Actually, yeah, that
is exactly what it is. So the standard hard
drive that you will find in a lot of computers today is a bottleneck in almost
every single thing that you do. Well maybe not every
single thing, but you know, loading programs, or booting Windows, or, I don't know, loading
up pictures of Ken. These are all things that
are much, much slower on a mechanical hard drive, and that, my friends, is where
Intel Optane memory comes in. Who are awesome enough
to sponsor this video, so we can answer a very simple question. What exactly is Optane memory? Take this Dell Inspiron I have here. On the surface it looks pretty similar to a lot of other laptops, but thanks to improvements
in processing power, specifically with the
8th Gen Core processors, you can do a lot more work
a lot more efficiently than you used to be able to
do on a system like this. And yet, grandpa hard
drive is keeping us down. I'm gonna say grandpa hard
drive, and you're gonna like it. If you've got a big budget, by
all means, go for a full SSD. It'll definitely give you the speed, but the issue is cost. Now if you need anything more than say, a couple hundred gigs of space, things get pricey very, very quickly. Especially when you're spending
less than $1000 on a system, it can be really tempting
to go for flashy options like more RAM, but the thing is, it won't really make a big difference in day-to-day use for most people. Sure, if you're one of those
people who have 100 tabs open in Chrome all the time, then you probably do need more RAM. And maybe to re-evaluate
your life decisions. But the best way to think
about RAM verses a hard drive is like this, having more
RAM will allow you to have more things open at once, but having a faster drive will
mean that all those things will load much more quickly. That's where Optane memory comes in. Now the important thing to know is that this is not a
replacement for a hard drive. It's in addition to it. So the way that Optane memory works is that when you're using
your computer normally, there's an algorithm that
runs in the background, that's constantly analyzing which files you're pulling from the hard drive. The ones that you're pulling most, such as Windows, or your programs, or whatever the case is, will then be cached to the Optane module, which will massively speed things up without hurting your capacity. There are a few things to understand about how all this works. Now the first thing is the
actual Optane module itself. One of the keys is capacity. So with a standard SSD,
you're usually getting at least 256 gigs of space. However an Optane module only needs to be 16 or 32 gigabytes, depending on which one you pick up, and that is because it
is sharing the space with your standard hard drive. Which can be a terabyte or
two terabytes or 14 terabytes in the case of our ultimate gaming PC. This means a few things. First of all, it dramatically cuts down on the price per gigabyte, which is a big deal, regardless
of whether you're building an over the top gaming PC, or buying a thin and light laptop. Secondly, it means that you still have the mechanical hard drive, and all the capacity that goes with it. It really is the best of both worlds. You have the capacity
of the large hard drive, but with the responsiveness
and speed of an SSD. No, it's not perfect right out of the box. Optane memory does need
a little bit of time to process and analyze all
the different programs, apps, and files that you
use on a regular basis, but the idea is that Optane
is going to make your computer faster over time as it's
more and more well optimized, verses, well, basically
every other computer ever, which gets slower and slower with the inevitable march of time. Inevitable march. Inevitable march of time. This all sounds great in theory, but how does it actually work? To demo, I have a couple devices, starting with by far
the most common method of using Optane memory, a laptop, such as this HP Pavilion x360. This is a well rounded
system, with a Core i7, 12 gigs of RAM, dedicated AMD graphics, and a one terabyte hard drive that is backed up by a 16
gigabyte Optane module. It works exactly like
any other Windows system. Wanna load up Chrome? Bam, it's there. How about jumping into
a quick game of PUBG? It's a lot faster than a
traditional mechanical hard drive. On the other hand, we
have a full on gaming PC, which has a whopping
14 terabyte hard drive, which is accelerated with Intel Optane. Now, mind you, this is a very extreme way of using Optane, but the point stands. We're running on a full video in this PC, which you guys can check out. But the way it works is that
we're using a 32 gigabyte Intel Optane module, paired
with our huge Steam library, to get some seriously fast speeds, even though we have 14
terabytes of storage. The best part is you don't
have to do anything different. As far as Windows is concerned, I have a one terabyte
hard drive inside my HP. However, what's going on in the background is that Optane memory is
speeding up everything without me having to do a thing. Now of course, this isn't for everyone. If you're buying a high end
workstation, for example you probably have the
budget for a huge SSD. For a lot of people though, this is a really nice middle ground between a super high end system, and a budget option with a
glacierly slow hard drive. Whether you want to build a new gaming PC or buy that new laptop, if I can communicate anything
in this video, it's this. If you're getting a new system, don't rely on just a
mechanical hard drive. There are just better options out there, including Intel Optane memory.