- Hey guys this is Austin. The iPad Pro is a big upgrade, but as much as Apple might
claim this is a full computer, it is not ready to replace
my laptop just yet. This is a question I took a look at a couple years ago when the very first iPad Pro came out and it
actually came pretty close to replacing a laptop for me
but inevitability I ran through the limitations of running
iOS on a 9.7" tablet. First of all, this is
coming from the perspective of someone who spends a lot of time with some fairly high-grade video. The iPad, it just can't
handle it, it's not even the hardware that's the
problem it really is iOS. Sure there's some decent editing apps, such as iMovie, Premiere
Rush, and LumaFusion for the iPad but the
issue is that none of them are as powerful as the
full desktop versions of Premiere as well as Final Cut. To produce videos like
this I need access to fairly high-level features, such as Lut support, full Pro Codex, such as Pro Res and Red Code Raw,
it'd be really helpful if I had a full finder
set-up where, I could, you know, access the file system and import things using that handy USBC port. Instead, well none of
this stuff really works unless I want to do some
very basic editing in iMovie. It's fine, it's definitely capable of it, but iOS just isn't there yet. A lot of what I do everyday comes down to things like writing an e-mail, and here the iPad is absolutely terrific. I've always preferred
the smaller iPad Pro size but that does mean you
have to sacrifice then on the actual keyboard,
it's a little bit smaller than a standard layout,
but I've been using it for long enough that it's
not really a big issue. Maybe it's still a little bit ridiculous that this accessory that
is basically mandatory if I wanna get any work done
on an iPad costs a full $180 but I mean I guess that's
everyone at this point. I mean even Microsoft doesn't include the keyboard with the Surface. If you want to avoid the Apple tax, you can pick up either
a blu-tooth keyboard or something that plugs via USBC, or an adapter, but at the end of the day I want to have a portable set up that is as close to a laptop as possible. Which means that I'm stuck
spending $180 dollars on the Apple keyboard which is just, okay, but not really worth that kind of money. Something I've been kind of
surprised by is the pencil. Updated this year with a
much less annoying design as apposed to plugging it into
the lighting port to charge instead all you need to do is attach it to the top of the iPad, and not only does it attach here magnetically, but it also wirelessly charges. I will give Apple this,
the iPad hardware is incredibly nice, this
is seriously the biggest update to the iPad since the original. Thanks to the lack of the home button the bezels are much smaller here which means that not
only do we have a bunch of iPhone 10 like
gestures, but importantly we get an 11" inch display and the same size chaste as the old 9.7" iPad. The finger print sensor as been replaced with face I.D. which has been crammed into the top bezel along
with the front facing camera. It should be no surprise that the screen is absolutely excellent. Importantly we still have
ProMotion which means that the iPad Pro has a
full 120 hertz display. This means that the iPad screen is running at twice the frame rate and twice the smoothness of pretty much any other mobile display out there. The only thing that comes close are some gaming laptops
that do have higher refresh rate displays, as
well as on the phone side the Razor phone has a
higher refresh rate panel but in the tablet space
nothing touches this and it does make a big difference
things are so, so smooth. - [Speaker] Nick Perry teamed up with Peter and Jack Margos to
fix the daily number game perry
- The screen is absolutely terrific so not only is it color accurate it gets fairly bright, there's really not a lot to complain
about and that goes double for the speakers, it
does have quad speakers with one on each corner,
and this thing sounds phenomenal as far as watching video goes this is better than almost
any other laptop out there. Gone are the days of lightening and in is the glorious
future of the USBC port and this is proper USBC it's 3.1 Gen 2 which means that it
does support a full tank it gets better transfer speeds as well as of course any kind of video out you do all the way up to a full 5K monitor. It will also charge up other
devices just like a laptop plug in your phone for example and the iPad will give it a full charge. In classic iPad fashion however, iOS does hold you back some
what with that USBC port that you can't connect
it to an external display and for some apps such
as Twitch and Netflix it will give you a full screen video but for the most part your stuck
mirroring the iPad display. Kind of helpful but no where
near as good as it would be if I could, you know, put
a window on the display and another window on my iPad, you know, like every other laptop on earth. Its so close but it's so annoying. I mean this is really close to being able to fully serve as a laptop right? I mean for me I have a
monitor plugged into my laptop all the time when I'm at home or at work, I legitimately like that
extra screen real estate and the hardware is
absolutely capable of it and even the software is to degree I mean I could put a video there but the issue is that if I'm say, watching Netflix and
wanting to work on something at the same time Netflix
will play on the 4K display right up until the
point where I alt+tab to another app in which
the entire thing closes, it's like we're so close, we're so close. If we take a quick detour
into garbage town for a sec. I get that Apple removed
the headphone jack on their phones a couple years ago, but this is a device that's
trying to replace my laptop I really do like having a
pair of wired headphones and now sure, blu-tooth might
be the future for some people but for me I appreciate having
a nice pair of headphones that have no latency something
that I can plug into say, a MacBook Air which coincidentally does still have a headphone jack. Now I get that this thing
is completely packed with technology it's got like magnets and batteries and stuff
but having a headphone jack doesn't seem like that big of a sacrifice. I mean sure I could use a USBC dongle but that's annoying, I could plug in my lightening headphones that
I bought a couple years ago oh wait no, I can't do that, 'cause this doesn't have lightening anymore. It's just a weird compromise, I mean, it's not a deal breaker
I can get away with using other types of headphones but it would be so, so nice
if they would have kept the headphone jack on something that's trying to replace my laptop. I could run through our
standard sweet of benchmarks which show that this
is hands-down not only the fastest mobile
device we've ever tested but right up there with
a lot of proper laptops but at the end of the
day, what good is power if you can't use it
which brings us around to my main issue with the iPad
Pro, this is where things become very dependent on what kinda work you do. I legitimately feel like I could edit some proper 4K video on the iPad Pro if I had those software improvements such as full file manager,
as well as final cut. If you do a lot of work
with graphics for example it actually is a lot better,
there are great apps such as, procreate, and full Photoshop
is coming to the iPad, but still for a lot of
people the story here is less about what it can do right now, and more about the potential which is kind of a bit of shame
because it's been like that for several years at this point. That just it though, this
absolutely can replace a laptop for some people and the
iPad Pro is legitimately getting better and more
powerful every year, but for me this is a
great secondary machine but it is not a laptop
killer, at least not yet.