- Here you go, I'm done with this. - Oh, thanks. (box rattling) Oh, no! So this is a little 3D printed PS5? (laughs)
Oh, no! So if you look at it from
this side, it's 100% fine. Don't mind all the broken plastic. Wait. Let's see if I
can pick up the pieces. I'll pick up the pieces. Here. One, two, three, four. This would have been a very funny segment where I'm talking about my little baby PS5 and how Sony made the PS5 slim. And now, I'm just sad because
I've completely ruined it. A little judgment going on
on this side of the room. I'm getting a lot of silence over here. I'm getting a lot of disapproving looks. Well, someone please save
me by throwing another item on the table before I
break this even further. Whoo! Sheee! Sheee See? I'm cool with the kids. - [Matt] We should have
never shown him TikTok. - TikTok's great. There's so many great TikToks. And you just threw my
AirTags all over the place. Thanks. This is a very simple
little Bluetooth tracker that if you lose an item, you could attach this with the loop or with the leather loop. And I think there are a bunch
of third-party accessories for these as well. They're actually not incredibly expensive. I believe the AirTags cost 30 bucks each or the four-pack is... - [Ken] 99. Also Apple did send
these to us by the way. - Thanks Apple. I won't make you regret sending
us stuff for Mystery Tech. That's clearly never gonna end poorly. So you do need iOS 14.5
to get this to work. But I mean, I think, it's just as simple as just taking off the little plastic sleeve, pulling it out. Oh, did you hear that? All right. So, apparently, there is a
little speaker built in here but the speakers are actually part of this outer little section. So this is actually the speaker itself. There's no speaker hole or anything. Okay. Let me actually
pair it up with an iPhone. There we go. Okay. AirTag connect. All right. We wanna name it. We're gonna name it. I have nothing to put on my AirTag. What should I AirTag? (laughs) Yep. Got it. Naming it Roboraptor. All right. So Roboraptor is with me. So if I want, I can play a sound. (beeping sound) That's actually not that loud. (beeping sound) Oh, I guess it's not too bad. So now, the next step would
be to attach the AirTag. Now, one of the downsides
with an AirTag not AirTags because it's a single device, is that there's no way
to actually attach this right out of the box, right? So theoretically, if you
have something like this, you could drop it into
say a bag or something. It's a little bit on the chunky side. So I wouldn't wanna put it in
like a wallet or something. Now, you do have these little loops, which we're certainly
going to need to attach it to our good buddy, Mr. Roboraptor. Wait, how much are the
loops for the AirTags? - [Ken] They vary. They're somewhere between
like 25 and 40 bucks. - Whoo! That's as much as an AirTag. Oh, you know what this is? This feels similar, not the same, but it feels kind of
similar to the watch band. Like the sport loop. So we're gonna put it around his arm. There we go. Roboraptor will now never be lost again thanks to the wonders of the Find My app. So say, that you're in
a terrible situation, where you've lost your Roboraptor or whatever else that your
AirTag is connected to. Now inside the Find My app, anytime someone with an iOS
device walks by your AirTag, it will ping it on the map, right? So if I can see that it was in an airport or anything like that, I would know the rough location. But say, I know that Roboraptor is in say the building but I don't know exactly where he is. That's when I wanna
turn on the find button. Now, to be fair, this only works on, I believe, the iPhone 11 or later. Otherwise, you just get
like the general location. But here using the U1 chip on the iPhone, I can see the Roboraptor's close. Eight feet to my left. Oh, actually, that's interesting. So you probably can't see this very well, but it actually gives me like
a little like sort of haptic, like vibration. So as I get a little
closer, it's bouncing. Okay, so I'm gonna walk. So seven feet, six feet,
five feet, four feet. And we are on top of Roboraptor and Roboraptor is clearly very
excited about being found. - [Ken] Okay. Now, demonstration point. - Yeah. - I'm gonna take Roboraptor. - Wait. No, no, no. Don't take Roboraptor.
Why would you do that? - Is it moving around?
- Yes. - Well, so stay looking this way. - Okay. - So is it like moving around as... - Yeah. So basically, you're moving
away as you walk but it says, "Item is moving and precise
location cannot be determined." So I don't get the arrow. I get the rough feet, but then it's a little bit off, right? So like, as you walked
behind, it was like 12 feet. This is actually pretty cool, right? I know. I agree. I agree. So the thing with this,
is that with an AirTag, you're pretty much taking
advantage of everyone, who has like an iPhone
or anything like that to find stuff, no matter where
you are in the world. Right? I mean, there are like
a billion iOS devices. So that certainly gives you
an advantage over something like Tile, which is
just going to be limited by how many people are using that app. That being said, though, there's not as much flexibility
in an AirTag, right? So it's a little bit on the chunky side. Now, to be fair, you actually
can replace the battery. So it uses a standard CR2032, which is very readily available. So that's certainly a plus, you don't have to go toss out
your charger or your trackers. This doesn't needs to be charged. The main thing, that I think I really have to complain about, is just
the fact that by the default, when you actually get it, you're pretty much gonna always have to buy some kind of accessory, right? Because think about it like this. If I purchase this AirTag and I wanna attach it
to a bag or something, I want people to actually
be able to tap it with NFC and find out what it is, right? And if it's stuck inside
like my pocket or something, no one's gonna dig
through my bag to find it. Now that being said, I can actually take an
Android phone and tap it, to see what happens. So with an Android phone, theoretically, I can just tap the AirTag. Yep. There we go. And now it sends me to an about page. So it gives me the serial number. So the idea is that if this
is something that you found in a bag and you think someone's tracking you, it'll just tell you how to like
pull the battery out, right? But if this was in lost mode, this tag would instead be
giving me some information on like an email address or
a phone number to contact me. Of course, if you're using an iPhone, you actually don't even need to tap it because you would already have this show up in the Find My app. Now, I know that I'll never be able to lose Roboraptor again. Whoo! (exhales deeply) (box thuds) That was a jingle. The other day, we were at the shop and you were like, "Hey
Austin, I need 40 bucks." I'm like, "They don't take card?" And you're like, "No." So I just hand you $40. You walked off, you started giggling. - [Matt] For the record, I had to put $3 of my own money into this. (laughs) - Oh, well is it because
this digital speaker looks an awful lot like Nibbler? I think that's exactly what
happened here, isn't it? - [Matt] Yeah. - You just want an excuse
for me to talk about your dog in this Mystery Tech. - [Matt] Yes. - How am I supposed to say this? (laughs) - [Ken] So the cool thing
is that believe it or not, this has Bluetooth. - Whoa! - That is not (chuckles) what? Hold on. Hold on. - [Ken] No. He's so muscular. Oh my God! - [Matt] Dude! (laughs) He's cut! - Lift the sleeve. - [Ken] That's pretty... - [Matt] Yo, this dog's gotta beat. (laughs) - Whoa, Whoa, Whoa. It's a little too anatomically correct. Why is the junk so well modeled? We gotta blur this now.
- [Matt] No way! We gotta blur this now! Look at this. That's... Why? Well, we've got stereo speakers. One up here, one down here. - [Ken] Yes. Up and down. - Yep. Up and down. So on his rear with
his tiny little stubbed tail, we have micro USB, on-off, an
SD card, as well as volume. But it's actually not
really a volume slider. All right. Let's just fire it up
and see what happens. (dog barks loudly) - [Matt] That was so aggressive! (Ken laughs) I mean, there's only one
song we can listen to, right? - [Ken] Oh, yes. - You know exactly what
we're listening to. - [Matt] I too love the 90s. ♪ Who let the dogs out? ♪ (beeping sound)
(gentle tropical music) - But you know where
Nibbler 2.0 is gonna live? - [Matt] We have to blur
him the every episode now? - Pikachu just live. (laughs loudly) - Is this an Ash Ketchum costume? (drums music) - What do you mean no? What do you mean? Look, there's his gloves. There's his blue shirt thing. This literally says Pokemon on it. - [Matt] Put it on, boy. - That's much better than "Take it off." - Oh boy, my name is Ash and
I can't do this voice at all! Oh boy, Professor Oak. I'm so excited. I literally can't do that voice. But you know what? I'm actually already kind of
wearing the jeans right now. So I feel okay about this. There's more of these things? This is a weird scale. So this is like the
mega ultra Pikachu size. This is another one of the pop figures, but it's like medium size also. It's Cubone. Does anyone actually like Cubone? - [Ken] Yes!
- [Matt] What?! Cubone's sad. No one likes... I feel bad for him. - [Matt] I'm so happy. In Detective Pikachu,
when that was his starter. Well, potentially his starter. - All right. You know what? I'm kinda about that. That's pretty cool. I feel like just as giant loser right now, dressed up as Ash Ketchum,
with my mega pop Pokemon pals. That's a lot of alliteration. You got any more Pokemon for me? Got another giant pop figure? Got any Pokedex? Is that the Pokemon trading
card game for Game Boy? Like, actually, the way that
I got super into the cards? Does it actually have
the promo card in it? Okay, this was actually one of my favorite Pokemon games they ever made, which was literally just a
TCG version for the Game Boy. So the box is in very good condition. I mean, it's certainly not
minty, like especially, you see there's a little bit
of wear here on the back. Woohoo! Now, okay. I'll immediately say this has been open cause someone put it in a card protector. So, that is the promo Meowth. If you look really close,
there's a little GB. All right. I will evaluate the
condition of this Meowth. And it's definitely not centered well. But I mean, that is pretty minty. Ooh, there's some factory lines though. It's nice. I would say this card
is not a particularly valuable card though. That's probably like a few bucks. And then last but not least, we do have the actual copy of the game. Now, the game itself actually
looks to be pretty nice. Definitely a used copy. You can see if you look
really close on the bottom or on the back. I mean, there's a lot of marks, which pretty much anytime you put a Game Boy game in and out, you have these little marks because it was just
sorta like making contact with the plastic. That being said, though,
it's still really nice. You said you paid 200. (box thuds) (Matt laughs) Today is just my day. So this is the Game Boy Pocket Printer. The Game Boy actually
had a lot of different pretty cool accessories, right? There's the Game Boy Camera. There's the Game Boy Link Cable. And one of the more popular
things was the Game Boy Printer. So you could like have a photo of your... - [Ken] Ignore the fact that
gave you one in a Ziploc bag. - Okay. - [Ken] We ordered a whole kit and I'm been actively
trying to sort through it. You probably like that one more. - Wait, wait, wait. We have multiple Game Boy cameras? - Put these here. - Oh my God. Wow! Yo, this is actually really hard to find. - And in case the normal
Japanese one doesn't work, we have another one too. - Is this the greatest day of my eight year old life or what? For literally, the first
time ever in Mystery Tech, Ken, I'm not gonna yell at you
for spending too much money. - [Matt] Good, 'cause we haven't
told you how much we spent! (Ken chuckles) - All right, you know,
I was gonna last slide. Now, I actually need to know. How much was all of this? - [Ken] We spent almost
a grand on all of this. - [Matt] We could have
gotten you the Game Boy game for like 40 bucks. - [Austin] Yeah. If even. - [Matt] But, one with a card is like 300. - You paid $300? Here we go. Game Boy camera review. It was nine years ago. - Hey, guys. And today, I'm here to
review the Game Boy Camera. - Oh, it's working on... (laughs) - [Matt] Oh, no! - I'll fire this up. Oh, you guys ready for a banger? (playful game) (beeping sound)
(gentle tropical music) What a banger, right? What a banger! Game Boy TCG game. We're all set. And let me dig through all of this stuff. Okay. So the next thing I'm
gonna do is I'm gonna take the pocket camera, connect
it to your Game Boy. You can actually see that it's actually really nicely colored matched. So it's got all that
translucent purple look that very much was meant to
go with the Game Boy Pocket. And then, if you wanna take a selfie, you have it in this direction or you have a rear facing camera. I don't know what literally
any of this means. (Matt laughs) - [Matt] What is happening? - [Austin] I'm just
pressing random buttons until I get the the... Oh! - [Ken] Oh. - We're on. We're on! Okay. Okay. Ready? And... (ticking sound) We got it! We got it! Okay. So let's get the
printer set up. Right? So, I'm gonna crack open one of these vintage Game
Boy printer paper things. I feel bad about this because like they're
not making this anymore. Like there's only so many
Game Boy printer things that can ever be printed. - You also have five of these.
- We also have a lot. - So, you know, like we'll preserve it. So you feed it in like this. - Okay. You won't be able know what's
in until it's all the way in. - [Ken] A matter of B so A. - A matter no. - Uh-oh. - [Matt] Why does he look like Jigsaw? - Dude, all the art in the Game Boy Camera or the Pocket Camera, the Japanese version is wacky! Like, it is so bizarre and weird. - Austin was pretty
hesitant in opening up the Pikachu printer but, I think, we've got to open it up. - Let's do it! Let's do it. Yellow? Oh, that is super yellow. - Oh, this is nice! Whoo! That is clean. Look at that! - [Austin] I swear everything used from Japan is so much nicer. - [Ken] It is. - People actually take care of it. Let's give it a try. So fire it up. That sounds good.
- Come on, buddy. It already works. Nice. - [Austin] Yeah! - Let's go! Okay.
- Go! - It's way too dim. Not sure, how well you can tell, but it's just like a faint
outline of the actual print. - Wait. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Did I put it on the wrong side? Cause that's shiny. - Yeah. You put it on the wrong side. Okay. We're gonna reload the... - I'm just an idiot. So. - I feel like kids today are watching this and like this is so much extra
work for something so stupid. But back in the nineties,
man, this was cool. - The principal, right now, of what we're doing is very similar to the Instax printers that they sell now. - Actually, yeah. - There is a novelty to
owning your photos physically because they're actually, you know, something that you can hold. It's tangible. All right. And moment of truth. - [Austin] Oh yeah, there we go. - Ah, that's better. Not by a ton that that is better. I think it's pretty safe
to say the Game Boy printer has seen better years and the paper has probably
seen better years. - The pocket camera works great. The printer is printing something. I've got baby Cubone here and
I'm dressed as Ash Ketchum. What more could you ask for out of an episode of Mystery Tech? And what more could you ask for before you subscribe to the channel and ringling that dingling bell? So you're always kept up to date with the latest and greatest
of Mystery Tech shenanigans. There's more? How was there more Pokemon stuff? Oh, good Lord Instructions. Important info. Okay. Hey guys, this is the Austin Evans DMG. Excuse me? Okay, so we've got ourselves,
a Game Boy flashcard, which is actually
something I've never used but essentially it allows you to use the ROMs directly onto your Game Boy. So I assume that's just a... It was a micro SD or something. That's very cool. Look, it's even got a
little Retro Modding pouch. Yo. So this is from Jake Simmons. So I guess you've been conspiring with on this Game Boy. I'll have all of Jake's
links in the description. Thank you, Jake for creating a what I'm sure is a one-of-one masterpiece. Shall we? - [Ken] Yeah.
- Open it up? I mean, I've gotta say this
like even just this pouch, I feel the power. (deeply inhales) Oh, it's yellow. Oh, it's yellow. All right. Oh! (laughs) Oh, come on, come on, come on, come on. Yo! Yo! That is so good! Look at it, we've got the little Pikachu. The original Sugimori art. We've got the Poke Ball. Oh, dude. He's got a copy of Flappy Bird in here. Oh my God! Oh, look at this! He's even got a fake little PSA logo. Look, it's Austin on
the bottom instead of PSA. 1999 Pokemon Game. Pikachu 1st edition - Red Cheeks. Yo! This is awesome. Wait, hang on. Let me see what else did he do here? Okay. So there's an IPS display. 1000 miliamp hour rechargeable DS lite battery. Wireless charging and USB-C. Wait. What? Make sure Ken gives you my Pokemon cards. I'm gonna subs... You know what? I'm gonna take a pause. I'm just gonna subscribe
to Jake right now. I recommend you do the same. We need to blow Jake up for this. But in a good way, you know, like positively blow him up with views. Okay. I'm subscribed. All right. Let's fire up and see. Oh my God! Look how... Bro. Dude, that IPS display is ridiculous! Oh my God! It is so, so sharp! Actually, it looks... Isn't that larger than the
original Game Boy screen? It looks maybe like a touch bigger. Oh, I just saw it! Look! The USBC port. It's on the bottom of the Game Boy! Do we have a wireless charging pad? Can somebody give me a
wireless charging pad? I want a wirelessly charge my Game Boy. - [Ken] Your Z Flip. - I'll charge you with the Z Flip! My favorite things all in one! I'm about to start crying. We ready? Up. Oh, I see the light. Do you see the light? The light is on and the
Z Flip started vibrating. We are successfully wirelessly
charging a DMG Game Boy using the Galaxy Z Flip. What a perfect combination. I am incredibly happy right now. I'm gonna play some Flappy Bird and enjoy this moment. Yo, the color palette is real. And the greens absolutely the way to go. Oh, wow. That's straight up Flappy Bird. This actually works pretty
well for Game Boy too. Oh, wow. - [Ken] Well, you're bad on it. - [Matt] That's Flappy bird! - This is by far the coolest Game Boy I have ever laid my hands on. The fact that you've got not only all of this support from Retro Modding, right? To be able to put all of these different components together, but also the fact that
Jake was able to put wireless charging in the Game Boy. USBC charging in a Game Boy. This incredible backlit LCD display. I mean that made it look so much better. And the fact, that it's actually really meant
for like a Game Boy, right? I mean, this is real Game Boy hardware. I can put whatever game I wanted to it. This is incredible. I could not be happier. Definitely go check out Jake's channel. Click the link is a description. And there's more? (box thuds) These are not all Game Boys. Jake did not make this many Game Boys. - [Matt] Yeah. - Wait, these are not... What are these like Game
Boy Pockets or something? Oh! They're Game Boy Macros. Yo! So this is actually a video we were trying to do a long time ago. Essentially, what you can do, is you can take a DS Lite and if you remove the top screen, what you have is something
that is, honestly, a really solid Game Boy advance. Dude, that is really cool! So this is like our actual
paint splattered version. Wait, what are the other ones? - [Ken] So he made six
of them for the team. - [Austin] Oh, so these are your guys's? - [Ken] Yes. - Okay. Okay. This is cool. I've actually never
used the Game Boy macro but I'll be okay with my DMG of doom. It's been quite the journey today. Gotta say. I'm gonna go play Game Boy all day now. I'll see you later.