- Today we are going to
be building gaming setups from Walmart and Target to determine, have you been missing out
on those always low prices or are you right on Target
for your next gaming deal? Thankfully we're here in our brand new office which is going to be
mostly demolished here in about two days time. The demolition is already beginning. I don't have to worry about
making a mess in here. Look what I found. - [Ken] Yeah, and? - Do you realize how long it has been since the last time I saw cards in stock. Look they got that, the boxes! Gonna do a chest. (chest clinking) So that was 25 dollars. - [Ken] At least you are counting it to your total dude. - I am absolutely. I think this one's actually pretty nice. I'm going for the sophisticated gamer who's grown up and trade my
Mountain Dew in for a Lexus. - Everything you buy needs to fit in one single shopping cart. (desk clinking) - [Ken] Oh Jesus Christ dude. - Okay, got my desk. Do I have to buy posters and
use the art inside the poster? - [Jared] Yes. - Wait is there a photo
department in this Target? I will print a photo right now. - Probably not. - [Ken] What do you think this is? - It's not a CVS. (Ken laughs) - [Ken] Oh I see his plan, I see his plan. Wow it has a lot of lumbar support. (Ken laughs)
- Does that even fit like the aesthetic of
your desk or anything? You didn't look at any other chairs?
- You mean my white and gold doesn't match coffee brown? - [Ken] No. - Fine Jared fine. Feel like I'm like setting
up a dorm room right now. - He didn't even go to college, how does he know what that's like? - I've been in dorm rooms before. Not mine. - Oh oh oh.
- That sounds. (Ken laughs) I'm telling Karen! - Not recently. - [Ken] Was this before
or after you got married? - Okay. (everyone laughing) - (heavenly music) Wow the PC section. - Here we go. A Tenkeyless BlackWidow. 60 bucks for the keyboard
30 bucks for the Viper Mini. Okay so I feel relatively
good about my setup right now, it's all really built
around this gaming laptop. So we've got a 1650 and a i5-10300H. This was only 750 dollars. I would actually say
that's a fairly good deal. My total after taxes cause we're including tax was 1,289 dollars and 46 cents. - All right so Walmart has
a lot more here than Target. Look at all this decor,
immediately way more than Target. I would like to point out, the poster frames are clearly sourced from the same place--
- That's the same one! (everyone laughing)
- That is the same background. I will actually do the
thing that Austin didn't do which was grab one of the
pre sourced pieces of art. You have to lean into what's available. This is my motivation for what the rest of
the room will be like. Oh my god we got lamps. - [Austin] But we need to bless our home. - This one looks like it
housed grandpa Charles. Wow this one looks like a pineapple. We're gonna have a fruit
themed setup today. Okay we need one accent pillow. Look how cheap that is! Five dollars for an accent pillow. Austin you have no idea how
happy this makes me feel. You might peg me as the person
that buys a lot of things and doesn't think about it,
but I think about everything. And in--
- That sounds ominous. - In this. Yes. In this particular case I'm in it to win it as usual. All right so now I am
finished, I'm all checked out, got everything I need from Walmart and my total came out to
975 dollars and 49 cents. I may or may not have
forgotten to buy a chair. I was actually gonna use
this stool as a lamp stand but that's okay this is now my chair. - As you can see I've already cleaned up, the wall looks much better
than it did yesterday. I took the liberty of bringing
my laptop home last night so it will be completely
prepped and ready. For 750 dollars this is a
really nice little laptop. I have a 1650 and importantly
I have that gamer aesthetic. Look at how green my RGB is. It fits perfectly with my
white and gold aesthetic 'cause everyone knows
white, green, and gold, those are the colors of success. How's your setup coming? - Yes. I may or may not have had a little bit of a late night last
night, not related to this. (Austin laughs) - [Austin] That sounds really sus. - I have my laptop here. So we're looking at Acer
laptops like this for a while. This is the Aspire 5. I think we've looked at a bunch
of Aspire 5's in the past. - [Austin] They're really good. - I should have 'em on CPU performance, GPU it's another story, but I'm not going for a gaming setup. I literally put a lamp together, put a poster in a little frame. Oh sorry I have to unbox my speakers. - [Austin] I mean those are gonna slap. - [Ken] They're gonna slap. - [Austin] We have our own office now, we can play music as loud as we want and no one's here to
complain besides Jared. - It's funny you talk about
being loud in the office. So for those of you that don't
know I have my own channel, YouTube.com/DenkiTime. And I have this crazy loud speaker. I could be as loud as I want. I've actually been curious, I went outside to see if people
can hear it from the outside and you can't. I have a really old Samsung
speaker from a video that we did where Austin bought literally every Samsung product in existence. All I have to do is
hook it up to Bluetooth. Nevermind I lied, I can't do this 'cause my
phone is in my car isn't it. (Austin and Jared laugh) - [Austin] You set it up. - I did. - [Austin] You got everyone so
hyped about the new Denki set and then you're like oh I can't show it. - My phone's not here, damn,
I keep leaving it in the car. (light music)
- What's goin' on? - So situation update. - [Austin] You accidentally
locked yourself out of your setup. - Well I'm sorry that
you didn't go through all of your keys to
figure out what's what. - [Austin] I can see your
setup looks great from here. - [Ken] Yeah the unfortunate thing is that my phone is there so. (Austin laughs) - [Austin] Ken you could
also just admit defeat and we could end the video right here. - I mean if it means I can go home. - [Matt] I mean. - We could literally
just break this window. This video was sponsored by Yubico. In today's world your online security is incredibly important, and
the YubiKey is the strongest two factor authentication out there. I've used them to secure
my accounts for years. The nano has lived in my laptop since 2018 and I always keep the NFC YubiKey
on me for access anywhere. Unlike relying on two factor codes via SMS which can be vulnerable, or mobile apps to keep
your account secure, the YubiKey is dead simple. Hundreds of accounts allow you to add one or more of
the hardware based keys as an additional layer to protect you in the event of a password breach. There's just nothing to it. When it comes time to log in all you need to do is press the key or tap the NFC version
on the back of your phone and you are good to go. Whether it's a Google account, email, password manager, or crypto wallet, you should absolutely have two factor authentication enabled. And hardware based YubiKeys are for me a complete no brainer. They have the YubiKey 5
and also a new series, the Security Key which I
am really excited about. Not only are they compact
and easy to take with you but also they're really affordable starting at only 25 dollars. You can get yours by using my code AUSTIN5 to get five dollars off
any Security Key series key or YubiKey 5 series key. Check them out at the
link in the description, and huge shout out to Yubico for not only sponsoring this video but for protecting my accounts. So while we wait for Jared
to get back with tools to break into Ken's office, Matt would you like to take
a look at my wonderful setup? - I have a feeling I'm
gonna be underwhelmed. - This! - Okay. - Is my expert gaming setup. This beauty direct from Target. - I'm gonna give you credit. (Austin gasps) Just initial thoughts, this is the first time that I think you've actually made a setup. That's. - Wait that's the whole--
- That's the level of credit I'm giving (Matt laughs) you. - Also I got you some Pokemon cards.
- I'm not sure. - To open on camera, 'cause
I value your opinion. - Here we have visual proof
that Austin is bribing me FYI. - Oh did I forget, I unfortunately left
a weird date on there. Oh Matt what's that date again? Is that the date of the
first episode of This Is? Oops. - [Ken] I think it's the first time he's ever remembered This Is. (Austin laughs) - Oh oh, oh weird!
(Ken laughing) How did that get there? Oh. - How long have we been
doing Broke versus Pro? Two three years?
- Many years. - I like that you've finally
learned how to play the game. - This isn't even a Broke versus Pro! Can you take a guess at how much it cost? - I'm gonna go fifteen-hundred bucks. - [Austin] Twelve-hundred dollars. - Twelve-hundred, okay okay. I'm gonna ding you that this chair is way too high for this desk. - I was hoping you wouldn't notice that. (Austin laughs) - See when it's. - [Austin] It fits! - Had you gone to college you would've known (harp music) in the Target aisle there's
over by the bedroom section are desk risers. A hand full of mattress risers cost about 10 bucks for a four pack. - But Matt I was so enamored by my color coordination of my runner. - I will give you the runner looks great. - It does look great. - [Matt] Okay that's my Afro. Look at those eyes. - [Austin] Look at that frame rate Matt, that's like 100 frames
per second probably. - [Matt] This is not
terrible I'm not gonna lie. (sirens beeping in game) (man groaning in game) (Matt laughs) - [Austin] Oh Jared you've
come to save the day. - These are keys. (Austin laughs) Keys to unlock the door. - [Ken] Ready? (tool clinking) - [Austin] What? - [Ken] No. - [Austin] Is this how you do this? - [Ken] I don't know. - (Austin laughs) You know sometimes I wish we faked this for drama
but it's not drama really it's just stupidity that
we're dealing with right now. - Yeah you don't have the keys to any of the things in your own-- - [Austin] You locked the door! - I feel like dude--
- I closed the door. - [Matt] Can you do it from right here? - [Austin] Thus locking it. (beeping) - All right so I had
to rush it a little bit but here is the setup. - So I'm gonna already just
amazingly give you points. The security that was here, it took us a while to get quite in here. - Yeah no it's basically Fort Knox. Also it's my son. - You got a map of the world! - I do! Look we are right here. Can you believe it? - So I'm noticing one thing. There is no chair for. - So about that, (light jazzy music) as usual Austin wants
to rush through shoots. We had a stool but I forgot to pick up an actual chair.
- It sounds like every problem you've had today you blamed on me somehow. - Yeah because you rushed the shoot! I was literally at the end of the day! - [Austin] Did I rush
your door being locked? - How is this still
somehow more comfortable? - (Ken laughs) What?
- Than Austin's? - [Austin] What? - [Matt] I'm not gonna
lie I love this painting. - [Ken] It's good right? Out of curiosity, what are
you doing with that after? - [Ken] You can have it. - I kinda want that.
- You can have anything. - Like that I like that, that's art. I do think maybe you
should've hung the painting. - I actually okay maybe this
is just personal preference, I actually like leaning stuff but. - Or like I don't like where it is. So just looking at this this looks like it's a
cheaper setup than Austin's. - It is by a lot. - I'm gonna say, so
yours was twelve-hundred? - [Austin] Yeah. - 700. - 950. - 950 okay. - I am gonna be leaning on Xbox Game Pass. Here's the thing, my setup was 900--
- Wait! - My setup was 950 bucks but
I forgot to buy a controller. - So I'm gonna round you up to 1,000. - No round me--
- Really! - Up to 1,000 but here. - [Austin] What, this is cheating! I was missing things from my setup too and I just had to go without! - [Matt] So it is a little. - [Ken] There's a little latency I can kind of.
- Little latency there yeah. (upbeat music) Let's go ahead and turn
that down just a tad. (birds chirping) - [Austin] Oh that audio
sounds a little choppy. - It's a little stuffy.
- This is. (Matt laughs) Woof. All right so this is definitely one of the harder
challenges that we've had. This isn't like Micro Center where it's like no one has
access to these things, this is Target, Walmart,
everyone has access to these, this is a very obtainable setup. I'm gonna say first from aesthetics I'm going with Ken's. Ken's felt cozier but
you were not far off. - There's character
development here though. (Ken laughs) Like actually. - He built something! - I did! - Game-ability I gotta give it to Austin. I very comfortably played GTA on here, no problems whatsoever. - I will admit that even
in the best case scenario my system is not as good as something that has
a dedicated GPU in it. - So we are tied one to one. So really what it's coming down to with you guys is ergonomics. - I'm pretty sure he
wins on ergonomics right? - I was gonna say you both
do really bad on ergonomics. (everyone laughs) Like I
wish you would've spent literally like a folding
chair, either one of you. - You know the funny thing is that he actually had one in his cart and we bullied him out of it and he bought that one instead.
- Yeah I did. - Jokes aside, I have to
give this one to Austin. - I win? - The overall I have to give to Austin. I gotta give it to you
because as cool as this looks and as like cozy as this looks at the end of the day you can pick that up and you could take it with you to school to wherever you gotta go. Ken's you're like that looked great but you can't game on it on the go. - That makes sense. - I don't know if this is conclusive. I think we need to do
a second one of these where you guys swap roles.