- Austin, hold out your hand. (table thuds) (shaving gel squelches) - Ah! What's that? - [Ken] I thought it was gonna be foam. - Oh, it smells lovely. Is that a Razer razor? - [Matt] That is a Razer razor. - Razer make razors now? - [Matt] Razer does make razors now. - This is the GilletteLabs Razer razor. (laughs) Effortlessly shave... - [Matt] Oh, we weren't gonna shave that. (cast members laughing) - I'll say whatever this shaving cream is, it smells delightful. If I cut myself on this Razer razor, I'm gonna be really upset. I do think I maybe have a
little too much shaving cream. Oh, thank you. - [Ken] You just soiled
your forehead. (laughs) - [Matt] How did you even manage that? - Where is it? So this promises effortless
shaving in one efficient stroke. Same. - What? Hmm.
- Hmm. - All right, so I'm
going to wash my hands, and then unbox the Razer razor. - [Matt] Yeah, you just
kind of jumped into it. - Gamers don't shave. We
don't compromise like that. - You know, like-
- Gamers rarely need to shave. - We talk about like, yeah,
gamers needing razors, but I think Razer needs to team up with Old Spice for some deodorant. Have you ever been to
an eSports tournament? Jesus (fart) Christ.
(Austin laughs) - [Austin] Oh I just, oh, wow. - [Ken] That's actually kind of nice. - That's, holy, what the? Why
is the Razer razor so big? Do you see how big that Razer razor is? - [Matt] Because it's
an effortless stroke. - Now it comes with some Razer Gold. And oh my god, it comes
with a magnetic base. Are you kidding me right now?
- Wait, really? (cast members laugh) - There you go. So if you wanted to
display your Razer razor on your cool streaming setup, boy, oh boy, does Gillette X Razer have
your Razer razor on lock. Oh wow, we got some left-right action? Oh, (slap) son. That is an advanced
Razer razor technology. So it's got four blades,
which looks sharp. It also has a little strip
on the top and bottom. - [Matt] To lubricate. - Lubrication for your single stroke, and then you've also got a
serial number on the top. Boy, this is some very fancy (slap). And let's investigate how
well the Razer razor works. I can't see anything, so I'm just gonna hope
that I land on a nice spot. Wow, that's sharp. I hear the hairs being sliced off my face. So not only am I using the
Z Flip as a recording tool, but I'm also using it to
shave with, all right. I feel like I just had the RGB experience. That really good blade made me a really good, bad gamer. Now you know who loves to charge you lots of money for gaming accessories? Razer. You know who likes to charge
you lots of money for razors? Gillette and Razer. How much is my Razer razor? - [Alex] $15. - For one? How much are additional Razer
razors for my Razer razor? - [Matt] I don't know if they exist. - Do they just-
- Do you just throw this whole thing away when
you need another Razer razor? - Probably-
- It's called a disposable razor.
- Well, they probably just have the-
- No, no, you can take this thing off, right? - [Ken] Yeah, they probably have the Gillette blades, right?
- Yeah. Right.
- I thought those were bigger. - If I'm honest with you,
this exists for the meme. But you could walk around and say that you shave with a Razer razor. Big thank you to today's
sponsor, Bitdefender. Bitdefender is constantly rated as one of the best cybersecurity
companies in the industry. Tons of the biggest
companies in the world rely on their technology. But now any business
can have Bitdefender's enterprise-level protection with GravityZone Small Business Security. Remote work has opened up tons of new opportunities for small businesses, but it also comes with
headaches like poor security. Working remotely can be less secure because it's difficult to
defend in multiple locations with potentially different setups. On top of that, remote workers might use
non-secure internet connections, or the computers may be vulnerable because of out-of-date software. That means hackers can
intercept security credentials to steal sensitive data or
compromise business accounts. That's where GravityZone Small
Business Security comes in. Its robust security includes
realtime threat detection and behavior monitoring to ensure your workers are
safe no matter where they are. And a centralized
management hub makes it easy for IT administrators to
remotely update software and maintain security across devices. Definitely be sure to go check out GravityZone Small Business Security at the link in the description to get an exclusive 50% off discount. And another huge thank you to Bitdefender for sponsoring this video
and keeping us safe. (box thuds)
Okay, I got that one mostly. Woo, it's got some heft to it. Okay, all right, all right. So this is the Alpha Freewrite, and what it looks like is a
little mechanical keyboard and a tiny screen on it,
and then does it print? "Zero distraction, wifi cloud syncing, lightweight and portable,
fast refresh display, mechanical keyboard,
and desktop kickstand." This seems like a dumb product. I actually feel like
I'm kind of down for it. Like it is actually kind of cool. Inside, we have the Alpha
Freewrite. Okay, all right. So it's actually larger
than I would think. So it's like a keyboard,
but it's really big. - [Ken] It's like if Teenage Engineering made a Fisher-Price toy. - Actually, that's a
great way to describe it. So I will say,
(plastic shell tapping) very cheapy plastic feel. Not a great sign. You
do have the wrist rest. Oh, ooh. Oh wait, no, here,
let me pop up the stands. So it does have a stand.
Yeah, that's gonna be better. (keyboard clacking) Oh. Look, when I saw like typewritery thing, I thought we're talking
like real typewriter like. (Austin imitates typewriter clacking) - [Matt] My dude wanted an Underwood. - I do! Or at least, I don't know,
something cool, all right. "Your distraction-free
writing experience awaits." We're gonna have to get
a real zoom in on this 'cause I'll tell you,
it's not a great screen. "Today," ooh, it's very responsive. "Ken throw a box at me." This is neat though. So the
keyboard itself is fine. I do wish, while it's mechanical, I do wish it was a little
bit more click-clacky. I don't know the battery life, I assume it is enormously long. And the fact that you
can just write all day, you can plug it into your
computer and copy documents off, or you can sync it and have
it automatically show up on like Google Docs and
everything, it's great. Here's my question, and it's gonna really determine
my thoughts on this product because it is very plasticky.
(plastic shell taps) How much is the Alpha Freewrite? - [Alex] It has 100 hours of battery life. - [Austin] Lovely, great. - [Alex] And you are correct, it uses like mechanical keys. So it uses the Kailh Choc
V2 low-profile switches. - [Austin] Totally fine, yep. - [Alex] It is $350. (Ken laughs) - Look man, I get, I get it,
I get it, I get it, you know. If you are the kind of person
who gets distracted easily, not that I've ever been
distracted a day in my life. I want to like this. I
kind of do still like it. For 350 bucks, I get it, we're obviously not
just buying a keyboard. You know, there's some
software, there's a screen, there's other stuff going on, but it just, it's a
little too plastic for me. And I understand the
idea that you want this to be somewhat lightweight
and when you fold it up, you can kinda like slide it in your bag, much like you could put
like a laptop in there. Like that's great, that's fine. I think we need a little bit more for this thing to be worth it, but I would give them-
- Say less, buddy. Say less. - What do you mean, "Say
less"? Are we to buy the beta? - [Ken] No, we can buy you the better one. - So next episode of "Mystery Tech", we'll have the better version that you didn't get, it's $1,000? The fact that no one's saying anything makes me very concerned, ha ha ha. They don't have $1,000
version of this, do they? - Say less, buddy.
- Oh, God. - All right. Oh, that's heavy.
- Okay. - This, oh my god, Ken, this
is for cargo aircraft only. You just flew that like it
was a passenger aircraft. - And it landed like a Boeing.
- (laughs) Oh. - Oh, man.
- Sorry, I was- - [Matt] I noticed
there's no wheels on it. I didn't realize you could buy Ken online. - How do you buy Ken?
- So I was browsing, and I'm like, "Oh, I could buy Ken." - I see Duracell.
- No, because here you go. - Wow.
- Okay. That's an Amazon stock
identification number, for those in the know, that-
- That is what Austin used to look out for
- Oh. - before he met his wife. - But my dudes, we're opening
a Duracell thing, man. All right, this is the Duracell
Portable Power Station. 150 watts, 91 watt-hour. Wait, what? Why is this Duracell? Okay, 'cause like there's
plenty of like very nice brands. - Okay, I get it now 'cause
it's a whole Duracell battery. - Yo.
(cast member laughing) - So-
- You heard about A batteries, you've heard about C batteries. - Those are triple Ds. - Yeah! - Well, it wouldn't be the first time. So we've got ourselves the
M150 power station and dock, which I assume this is wirelessly charging or just charging.
- Yes, all of the above. - So it's got 91 watt-hours, which is a pretty big amount of power. 60 watts of input and 100
watts output, very fast. You got USB-C and USB-A
and wireless charging with what looks like a dongle
or something on the top. There you go. That is, my friends, one big-ass Duracell battery.
- That is my favorite thing ever. - So what's funny is it
actually very much looks and feels like a little Bluetooth speaker. So we've got ourselves some USB-C ports, two USB-A ports on the back. Even though it looks like it, I actually don't think
this is a speaker, is it? - No.
- No. (laughs) - It looks like it should be though. Oh, you know what it is? This is probably like a fan for like active cooling or something. - Okay, I'll say that-
- Whoa. Wow. Don't eat inside the battery. So this is the charger for it. So I guess you have two
ways of charging this. You can plug it into a USB-C, or you can use this guy
and charge it up manually. This is a neat idea. I am a little bit sus
on why it's the shape because it looks funny, but imagine like you're trying to like carry this thing
around in your bag. Like it's way, way bigger just 'cause it's a cylindrical
object and not some kind of flat-packing cube.
- Square. - We've got this connected, so you can see the little LED on the back. It is indicating some sort of lightage. Now the ad or the box made it seem like I can just drop my phone on here. Is it going to be Qi
or MagSafe-compatible? I don't think so, but let's give it a try. - I think one of those things.
- Oh (slap). - Wow.
- Oh, okay. - So it is charging. Wow. - [Matt] What, did you
think I would get something that doesn't work? - I didn't think it was
gonna be like a MagSafe. I just thought it was just gonna be a wireless charging puck 'cause you obviously can do it flat, but it actually is like, you can see like it's definitely
magnetically attached. - [Ken] Well, don't hit it. - Who made this? Is it really Duracell?
- Duracell, yeah. - Did they just take the
mold from a Bluetooth speaker and shove batteries in
it and call it a day? - Yep.
- This is $130. - [Austin] Okay, that's a lot of money. - [Matt] That's actually not that bad for what it is compared
to other all in one. - Like you gotta be into
it for the novelty, right? Like you gotta be into it
'cause you're like, "Ha ha ha, I'm using a giant Duracell battery 'cause AA batteries just exist in my-" - [Matt] That's why I got it, for Matt. - Oh, interesting. - [Matt] I like battery. - [Ken] Okay. - Wow.
(plastic wrap crinkles) - [Matt] All right, we just
made you an Austin sandwich. - "Do not eat."
- Joanna wanted to have bread thrown
at you from all sides. - That was definitely a lot of bread. So it clearly says, "Do
not eat," on my bread. Wait a minute, the last time-
- What is your favorite item that's ever been on "Mystery Tech"? - Last time the bread hit the table, I got the most delicious
toaster experience of my life. Is this a, no, no, it's not. It's not an actual- (gasps)
(box thuds) Oh my god, isn't that-
- We're here today to challenge the reigning
"Mystery Tech" champ. - Is this a good toaster or a bad toaster? - [Matt] I'll tell you what,
take this and you'll find out. - Fighting words here. Water? What kind of water, is this toaster so advanced
that you need to liquid cool it? - [Matt] That's one way of saying it. - If you're a new "Mystery Tech" viewer and you're not familiar with the legend of the Mitsubishi toaster, which toasts one, count at
one, piece of bread at a time, then you should go watch my compilation of all the good "Mystery Tech" episodes. You can ignore the rest of them, but... "Hello Kitchen! Thank you for purchasing
BALMUDA," all caps, "The Toaster." I'm very curious. This is
not a traditional toaster. This is a toaster oven, right? I have a bunch of things here. So it says there's a Sandwich Bread Mode. Artisan, artisan? Artisan.
- Artisan. - You got them artisan breads in there? Artisan Bread Mode,
Pizza Mode, Pastry Mode. And there's Oven Mode, which
is apparently no water. I'm down to try this bread obviously, but I've got low expectations
'cause like I don't, like is this gonna be good? - [Matt] It just sits there, okay, it locks in.
- Uh-huh. - [Matt] And watch it. It's a little...
- Oh, man. - Man, I'm feeling desirable right now. - So let's plug it in. And I'm guessing we're gonna
need five CCs of water. No more, no less. This is the precise level of water needed for optimal (slurps). - I no longer want to, this
is just a little coffee cup. - It's quite small. - [Matt] Oh, that's satisfying. - It does look quite nice.
Okay, so we close this up. - It should be noted that
this bread is very stale. It's like weeks old. - I hear it, I hear it, you hear it? (timer clicking)
(water sizzling) It's like the water, ooh.
- It steaming up on the front. - Ah!
- Okay. - Okay, okay. Open, open
it quickly, quickly. - Oh, that smells good.
- No, don't. Okay, I realize we probably should have grabbed some tongs.
- How do we get it out? - Stick a fork in there? - [Austin] So I'll say that the two pieces are not quite uniform. So this one's a little bit burnt down here and a little bit sort of raw on this side, whereas this one's more fully cooked. Oh. Ooh, look at that.
- Oh. - The, mm, grill marks, grill
marks, a unique bold choice. Everyone ready to take
a dive into a toast? - You go first as the connoisseur. - I mean, I'll just kind of... - Oh, that does sound kind of nice. - Hold on, everyone quiet for a sec. (breads crunching) - [Austin] Goddamn. That's
some toast right there. - That...
- Actually though- - That's some toast. The bread sucks. - That kind of slaps. - Is this good as mine though? - Yeah.
- Uh-uh, but it is even.
- It's fluffy. - Here's the real question. How much is the BALMUDA? - [Alex] $300. - Significantly less
than my toaster. (laughs) (box thuds) That had like a not nice-looking thunk. Like it just, it sounded like... (box crashes)
- Okay, why? - It's like a VHS. Is there a VHS in here? - Just open it.
- It's roughly from that same era plus maybe - Is this "Back to the Future"? - [Ken] six or seven years. - Nobody's seen that movie.
- Open the box, open, just...
- Oh. - [Joanna] I'm tired of waiting 20 years for you to open up the box.
(cast members laughing) - The roast! Jesus, okay fine. I'll open the box.
- You know it's bad when Joanna's saying, "Hey-"
- Look, I'm sorry for making jokes and being
hilarious, ha ha ha ha. Wait, what? Is this your modded PSP? - [Ken] Yes, it's done finally. - Okay, okay. And you're
presenting this to me as a gift? Thanks, Ken. Wow, you know what? I'm just gonna love it, it's
even in a little carrying case. Ken, I know has been working
for a while on modifying a PSP, is it 3000, right?
- Yes. - So modifying a PSP 3000
with some modern accoutrement. And I know that I had to donate
a perfectly good PSP donor in addition to the one he already had to get this thing working. Does it actually function now? - [Ken] Yes, it does. - Okay.
- Both of them do, actually. - Oh, nice. You fixed the other one?
- Yeah. - Okay, thank you very much for that. So can I ask why you've given
this to me, oh, first of all, at all 'cause you've
already made a video on it at this point, I presume. But also, why is it in the carrying case? - [Ken] Oh, that's just 'cause
I wanted it to look nice. But here. (packaging clatters) - (gasps) Oh, you got the
thing! You got the thing! You may not be familiar with this. This is a GPS module for the PSP. Now I saw a Short a little while ago where someone had actually
plugged this into their PSP, and it still works. Now mind you, the maps are all outta date and I think it only was sold
in like Europe and Japan. So I don't think it works here. But like the fact that you actually found a new in box PSP GPS module is sick. - [Ken] Oh no, it actually
works here, supposedly. - Are we about to GPS a PSP? This is the most PSP-ness
thing I've ever seen. - Oh, yikes.
- There's so much PSP just encapsulated in just
one particular, like look. PSP, meet more PSP. I've seen this on TikTok enough times. I think I know how this is gonna go. Oh, good lord. (sighs)
(Ken laughs) I mean I will admit this looks
really cool, but like really? - Yeah, so you can use your PSP as a navigation device. Now obviously we have smartphones that can do that these days,
but this came out in 2008, maybe like two years
or so after the iPhone. But the fact that you
can do this with a PSP that you already have, kind of sick. All you need is this GPS module, which you have already unboxed. But yeah, it's just a
fully functioning GPS app. And this is a European piece of software, but it does actually have US maps via DLC, which I happen to have on here. So let's do Find & Go, Places, Around Current Position. Let's go to, what, a hotel? All right, so we have a Motel 6. - Okay.
- And this is probably the best way to test to see if the information is still accurate. - [Austin] Well, how old is this? - This came out in 2008. - [Austin] So it's gonna be a
map that's accurate from 2008? - Yes.
- Hey, don't PSP and drive, Ken. - [Ken] So you could change
views, 3D point of view. You can look at a bird's eye as well. - Oh god, the PSP's
sending us on the freeway. (Ken laughs) Oh, no.
- But what's cool though is that it's giving us things like our speed and how far the point of interest is, which I mean again is all
pretty standard stuff. But the fact that it's honestly accurate, like the speed looked totally fine to me. We can actually see all the
satellites we're connected to. All right, Austin, we're 1.6 miles away from the Motel 6. What do you want to do? - Why would you ask me what
I wanna do at the Motel 6? Leave. I don't wanna
hang out at the Motel 6. I'm gonna get, whatever
happens, I will be in trouble. Stop PSP and driving. - Hey, hey, hey. All right, so apparently,
the Motel 6 is on our right. - Where? There's no
Motel 6, wait, is there? It says, oh, there is the Motel 6! - Oh wow, it's still here.
We're at the Motel 6! - [Austin] The promised land. - Yo.
- All right, great time. Let's leave now. I don't wanna get out.
- Yeah, why not? - I don't wanna get out. - Why not? All those
people are staring at us. - Yeah, because we're a
bunch of dudes in a 4Runner at a Motel 6 with a PSP as our GPS. - They also look like
they live here. Let's go. - Yeah! Yeah, you think?
(Ken laughs)