- Today, we're doing
something a little different. Jackery sponsored this video where we're going to be
outfitting Colin's dad's boat with about as much tech
as we can cram into it. And hopefully we're approaching
at the right angle here. Cause I can't freaking see where I'm going ladies and gentlemen. Hey, how y'all doing guys? Hey, a continuity error. We're pretending it's still in the box. We're going to have some fun
today, ladies and gentlemen. - Step one is to get the
entertainment system going. You can see we've got a nice
lounging sort of, I don't know, shares bed? Is this a bed? - Yup. It's a bunk. - And we're going to put a TV on it. So this is a nice picture. - So this is the boat my
dad used to be a chef on. And it's got a haul tie. Still around. When I was born, he was
working on this boat and they hopped him in a floatplane and flew him to the airport. - Well, the thing about
when you mount something on a boat is, seems like
you do it in such a way as to such if there's waves that doesn't. And I guess the idea is we've
got this full range mount, so you can either lounge
in the bed and watch. Or pull it up. - You got the wrong way. - So the idea, then - [Colin] I need to keep
trucking on this wiring otherwise it's not gonna get done. I'm going to be working
on getting the Jackery, actually ready to plug in. So we're going to be taking
this chunk or extension cord. We're going to snip the end off of it. And we're going to run
it down into the cabin below the floor and back to
where the house wiring is, where we're going to connect
it to a rotary switch. So this is the front bridge
and there's some random wire kicking around here, but critically there's a
hole that goes down to by the steering wheel down below. And that's where this guy's going to go. And hopefully it'll just go right through. Oh, there we go. Okay. That was easy. Where I'm laying now is where the Jackery will be bolted down, and
then we'll have 12 volt power to recharge it coming from this port that I put in not too long ago. And now we're going to fish it down. We're going to open up this
deck and I'm going to straddle the big diesel motor. I'm gonna run it under the deck and into where the house wiring comes in. And that's where the majority of this work is going to take place. Cause there's already
outlets and 120 everywhere in the boat. It's just a
matter of getting the power from the Jackery up there, down into here. This is going to take awhile. - Slightly awkward thing for compact space saving living arrangements. Small TVs don't really exist anymore, but that's okay because
thankfully monitors do. So we've got a U28R55,
28 inch monitor here. It's an IPS type monitor,
it's got support for HDR, it's got an HTMI input,
so we'll be able to use it with our Apple TV and all that good stuff. And of course critically, it
has a VESA compatible mount on the back. I'm good, don't worry. - I see the cable. That's just light rit in my eye. Standing on the valve covers of it. Lovely Ford diesel motor. Now I get to get comfortable again. That's just not 46 degrees. This is the AC rotary switch,
so we have three inputs and a off circuit. So that means we're
going to have the Jackery as one of our inputs. And then you can switch it to
another input and that'll be running off shore power. And then the third input
is just there because buying the two position
switch was more expensive than buying the three position switch. I mean, really this went way easier than I thought it was gonna go. But you know, mark my
words, it's not gonna be two hours of fiddling. - We've already got one thing that might bonus here though, Colin. There are several standards
for the VASE amount in terms of spacing and the back of
this monitor is kind of stylistically curved. - There might be spacers in the hardware. - Spacers. All right. - Yeah, check the beautifully
laid out hardware kit that comes in those Kanto mounts. - Colin's all into Kanto now
that they give his friend and his dad are free mounts. - [Colin] Absolute Kanto show over here. - All right. That's on. Don't know about you Colin, but I'm making some pretty good prog, wow. - [Colin] Oh boy. - That's some Samsung quality right there. - [Colin] Maximum sag. - Unfortunately, our
mounting kit only comes with big old chunk of wood
screws cause they assume you're going to do something
sensible, like screw into a stud, but we don't have a stud. We just have this quarter-inch
wooden panel here. So we had to go digging through Colin's What do you call this? A bag of prayers?
- [Colin] A bag of dreams. - Bag of dreams to find
some nuts and bolts. And we did. Right against the window? Oh yeah, cause you've got to
walk past it and stuff, hey? Okay. - [Colin] Okay. Do you want to mark it? - I would like to. - Yeah. So that is like an
inch from the center bar. - We're not going to
worry too much about it being leveled because
realistically all it takes is me to shift my body weight. We're going to move at about
four or five degrees anyway. So what's the deal? You've
mentioned your dad was a chef on a boat before, so what do
you guys do? Like fish or like. - Well, that's the plan. So we have rod holder sitting
up top here and chart holders. But we haven't actually
taken the boat out really. We took it down the down the
way once for five minutes and then back, and then had lunch. - Oh, so you just got it. - [Colin] We just got
it. It took nine months to get it here cause we were
purchasing it during COVID. - Oh, cool. So that's why
you guys have been putting so much work into it lately. - We want to go do things. - Oh, right. We're going to be tacked out by the end of this video. - [Colin] That's the dream. - On it goes. Hold on. Let's just, yeah. You don't really need that. Do you want to pull it out? Comes out a little, something like that. Ah. Oh yeah. Now in true Colin
fashion, we'll be mounting the Apple TV using Am I just yoloing this, Colin? - [Colin] Yep. - There's no rules? - [Colin] No rules.
Make our own rules here. - [Linus] Is that cable management
cut your mustard, Colin? - [Colin] Oh, A plus. - [Linus] All right, it's in there. - [Colin] I'm ready to go plug it in. - [Linus] I don't see
the fire extinguisher. - [Colin] So one should
give you shore power. - There. - So the wiring's done, but shore power, isn't working for some reason. I don't know if I flubbed the
wire. I don't think I did. So we're going to plug in the Jackery and then we're going to see
if that turns on the monitor. - For my next project
while calling diagnosis, what's going on with the power
switch that hopefully works is to put these Polk speakers
up on the back deck here. Oh, excuse me, the stern deck. Yes. Are these weather sealed, Colin? - [Colin] Yeah, they're weatherproof and they're salt water resistant. The screw will go through. - This wall has seen some things, okay? This boat is 50 years old. All wood. Man, this would be a fun kind of project. Where is my dad's boat? This is one small thing
we may not have foreseen. This appears to have a
bit of a clearance issue with this speaker, majig.
- [Colin] Can you fix it? - Yes, I can fix it. We'll get you go. All right Colin, the good
news is that the brackets on. - [Colin] Are you applying those bad news? - The Bad news is that there
are no extra holes in the wall. - That's what Bondo's for. - [Linus] Sweet. - The problem we're having
is we've validated the power is getting through the switch. - Validated the switch functions. - Validated the switch
functions and we're connected to shore power, I can see the voltage, I can see it come across the switch, but we're not getting
any power to the outlets. Why are you not running? So that's what we're diagnosing now. - [Linus] The dud AC power switch ended up being human error. Colin found a little
jumper that've fallen out of the first switch. So with that fixed, what can I hook up next?
I did the speakers only. - You wanna do the mount the subwoofer? - Okay. I found your subwoofer. Oh, this is our plan for the video today. - [Colin] Yeah, that's all
the stuff we had to do. - Well, now I don't have
to keep asking Colin what to do next. And you wanted it in the very
corner seat. Is that right? - [Colin] I think like in the
wall between the two seats. I heard the shock back, come on. - I think it's working. Now that we've got power,
we can fire up our monitor and hopefully set up the Apple TV. And we're good, we're done. As much capacity as the Jackery has though obviously we're going
to need to charge it. So that is where these come
in. We've got not one, not two, not three, but four of these
Jackery solar generators. And these are good for
about 200 volts each? - Yeah, so total that's 800 watts, which is more than enough
to run everything that would normally be running on a boat. So we're pulling in. Wow,
it's still climbing, 275 Watts with the two panels. Our draw right now with the Apple TV and the actual monitor is 294 Watts. - Okay. So that speaker's
definitely working. Now these guys are not going? - [Colin] No, they're not plugged in yet. But base. - We're moored right now. - No, turn up. - We're actually kind of getting there. - So right now two panels will run the entertainment system indefinitely. - Well is the fridge running now too? - Yes. - [Linus] Compressor's going. - Yep. And we're now at 723 Watts. - [Linus] I'm checking out
the solar panels over the top. Look, Brandon's in the video for a change. We totally could get more up here. - Feasibly with two more
panels would be fully running this boat and then done. - Well here let's try it.
So the trick is if I fall, jump hard, hey? I'm good. I got this. Yes. - [Colin] Did you see
the end flop out over? - Sorry about that. Well, whatever the cloth
might think about it, the frame seems okay. - I am completely expendable. - It's not like if I die, everyone's out of work or anything. - We are inputting 500 watts, - 500 watts from the solar panels? - Yes, we are charging.
It'll be fully charged in two and a half hours. - That is sick. - [Colin] While running everything - [Linus] That is awesome. On the tech side of things,
the M1 12.9 inch iPad pro is both the navigation and media hub. When you're steering from
the cabin, it resides in a 12 inch RAM mounts
tablet mount above the helm, keeping everything within arms reach. From here, you can flip
through charts and Avionyx, the wind and weather
information with windy and controlled media,
or even watch a movie. Colin loaded up with iPad
iOS 15 Beta 2 as well to take advantage of the
improved multi-tasking capabilities. There's no networking on the
boat, so an iPhone is used as a wireless hotspot
whenever it's needed, but that doesn't come up
that often cause the iPad and the Apple TV under the cabinet here can airplay without it. Now the existing stereo didn't work, but some new wires to the
6.5 inch Kenwood speakers fixed that. - And I made these speakers. I think that looks pretty darn good. So we're going to get this
whole boat spick and span, and we'll get Linus to give
you a tour to the boat. - [Linus] A week of naggy
little details later, and the Jackery install
is finally complete. A customed Bimini covers
being designed by north sails to hold three or four of
the SolarSaga 200W panels for a peak output of
between 600 and 800 Watts all off the grid. Running all tech on the boat,
that's the fridge, freezer, Apple TV and monitor, power
draw is around 360 watts. That actually leaves us
with a surplus of power. That is until we add the
hot water tank to the mix. With that, we actually hit
the maximum of 1500 watts that we can get out of a
single socket on the Jackery. Now the Jackery can output more,
it just needs to go through multiple outlets. So Fiddler has come from
being a tired trawler to a tech cruiser, all thanks
to Jackery Solar System. So she'll be able to motor
around to her heart's content with ample power to run
all day and all night. And even more importantly,
she'll do so silently. No generator noise, just
nice, quiet sunshine juice. Which is a big plus
for neighboring boaters or noise sensitive activities. This was a huge build that
took a ton of evenings and a lot of weekend work by
calling in his dad, Gerald. So I'd like to thank
them for their effort. Wait a minute, thank
them for their effort? How did that end up in the script? They're working on their boat. I guess they did offer
to give me a ride though. So that's cool. Oh, and of
course I've got to thank Jackery again for sponsoring this video.