- Today we are putting TikTok
Tech Hacks to the test. That's a lot of Ts.
(bell dings) (men laugh) TikTok Tech Hacks squad, let's assemble. So because we're boomers, can someone please load
up our TikToks on the TV? - [Automated Voice] Y'all like my new PC? (Ken laughs) - Yes! - No, it's so disgust, ah. It's gonna get so slimy. - It's gonna smell good though. - [Automated Voice] Bye, bye, cables. - [Austin] Oh. I mean, this is just an ad. - That's not a tech hack. That's literally just a charger,
but it's a cool charger. - [Man] Now type this number in exactly. Once you type it in, you get to the testing
screen for the phone. This is where you can
test all your sensors, screen, pretty much
everything on your phone, and make sure everything's
working correctly. - I've never done that before. Let me go. - So this is a number that you dial when you drop your phone into the pool for a little too long and
it's working a little sketch. - Star, pound, zero, star, pound. Oh, there we go. Look at that. - [Ken] Ooh, nice. - [Austin] Okay, so red. Ooh, so it's like a screen test. - [Ken] Again, this is
diagnostics. So again- - [Austin] Yeah. - [Ken] If something happens to your phone and you wanna test a
particular thing, it'll- - It's blue. - Thank you. Your phone can show blue colors. That's it exactly.
- Wait, black. - Here, look at black. - Or off. - And touch. Oh, so it's like a little
like calibration tool. I've never seen any of this before. - If you're iFixit, you
probably have that on whenever you put a phone
back together, right? - Yeah. - Just to make sure that
it's all functioning. - Jared, hit us with a hot TikTok. - [Man] What happens if you use deodorant instead of thermal paste in your PC? - Yo. We gotta do this. Wait, wait, stop, stop,
stop, stop watching. I don't wanna see. I don't wanna see. We've done a lot of stupid
things with PCs in the past. We tried to cook on a PC, we've used different various
bad ideas as thermal paste. Deodorant is gonna smell delicious. I mean, delightful. (Ken laughs) Delightful. - Are you gonna eat it, dude? - Delightful is the word I meant. Delightful. Ken, I have a need, a need for speed. - Well, thank God we have Speed Stick. - The sponsor of today's
video. Just kidding. So, for this one, it should
be really straightforward. We've built a very scientific
test bench of a board with a Core i3-8100. So not exactly the most
powerful CPU in the world. You just disconnected something. - [Jared] What did you do? - I heard the Windows disconnecting. - I moved it because it was
on the edge of the desk. - So we should be able
to do this pretty simply. So we're gonna start out
by running Cinebench. And then we're gonna take
a look at to see exactly how hot it gets, if
there's any throttling. Five, four, three, two, one, and complete. So after five minutes, the
fan ramped up to 1300 RPM, we had no throttling,
and the hottest CPU core touched 62 degrees. So that is our benchmark. - [Jared] That it pretty cool. - That is incredibly cool. This is a older, lower powered processor. So if the deodorant's
gonna work with anything, this is like the best case scenario. For reference, that's
what the thermal paste is supposed to look like
on our actual CPU cooler. And you can see that it's actually a pretty
good application here. It was pretty smooth, pretty even. So let's wipe this off
and put deodorant on it. - [Ken] I don't think that
that's the best way to do that. - Okay, what do you think we should do? - I think you should cut
it in chunks and then flat. - No! What kinda psychopath... This is deodorant. It is meant to be applied on even strokes. You're not gonna like... What? No. - [Ken] But you're not gonna
get enough of it on there. - Oh, watch me.
- [Jared] I think he will. - Watch me. All right, we'll start with the CPU. - [Jared] Ow. - [Ken] Yeah, I think
cutting it's the best idea. - [Jared] I think he's just gotta put a little more TLC in there. - [Ken] It smells really good. - [Jared] And then if we put
some on top of the cooler? - Yeah, yeah. - [Jared] I mean, you
don't want that much. - You want a lot, actually. - [Jared] No, you don't want- - The more the better. So that's a healthy dose on our CPU cooler and a generous helping on our CPU, which looks a little sus, a little crusty. - Looks like you got more
of it on the heat sink than you did the actual- - I'm gonna just touch it up a little bit with a couple extra little dips and dabs. All right. Well, immediately I'll
say this is not good, 'cause we've not even
gotten into the benchmark and we're at 78 degrees. I gonna take a guess, we're currently at 97, 98,
99, 100, 100, 100 degrees. - Don't worry guys, I
got this, I got this. - What's happening right now is it is overheating dramatically. So 100 degrees, fan at max and then we have throttled down from 3.6 to about 3 gigahertz. - But, but we have a Glade plug-in. Smell it. - It does smell delightful. Does anyone want to take a bet as what this thing looks like? - I think it'll look fresh
and clean and masculine. - Burnt. - And confident. - Burnt. - Oh it, look it's, oh my God it dried. - [Jared] It melted. - Wait, wait, wait, no, no, look at this. - Oh wait, no. - It's not antiperspirant, it's perspirant. - At 100 degrees celsius it melted. Just look at little like
drops of like liquid on the CPU. And look, there's a bunch
more on here as well. It's like completely melted. - [Jared] So, do you think this is
still usable as deodorant? - I'm not gonna put a hundred
degree melted deodorant on my armpits. - I think you're just afraid. - Oh, it smells so good though, yo. This video is sponsored by stamps.com. Stamps.com is all about
bringing the services of the US Postal Service and
UPS right to your computer. When it comes to running a small business, it is so nice to skip
trips to the post office. By just hopping on stamps.com, you can schedule a
pickup while saving money with exclusive discounts
on postage and shipping with both the USPS and UPS. Stamps.com has been
around for over 20 years and they simply offer discounts
you can't find anywhere else like up to 40% off USPS
rates and 76% off UPS. Whether you're an office,
a side hustle Etsy shop, or doing full on warehouse shipping, it's as simple as using
your computer and printer to get up and running. Within minutes, you can
print official postage for pretty much any letter or package. So just simply no reason to waste time by making a trip to the post office. So what are you waiting for? Save time and money with stamps.com. There's no risk, and
you get a special offer, which includes a four-week
trial plus free postage and a digital scale. No long-term commitments. That's stamps.com/austinevans. Never go to the post office again. - [Man] Here's another iPhone trick I guarantee you didn't know about. Scroll down and find hearing then add it to the control center. Click on it and turn live listening on. You can now listen to what's
being said in any room where you leave your phone
through your AirPods. - Wait, really? - Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. So with that, your AirPods can hear
what your iPhone's doing. So if you put your iPhone on another room, as long as you're within Bluetooth range, you can hear what's
going on in your AirPods? - Well, let's test it out. - Can you hear me right
now? Can you hear me? - Yes. - So we obviously can't hear
any of this in the video. So you're hearing me on
the iPhone right now? - Yes. - Okay. So I'm gonna walk in the back. Hello, Ken. How's it going? I'm gonna walk and keep walking. Can you hear me? - [Ken] Yes, very well. - [Austin] I'm gonna
whisper. I'm gonna whisper. Can you hear me now? - Yes, you're whispering. So this is more or less
just a wireless hearing aid. Also I'm hearing myself talk
and it's messing with me- - [Jared] Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Because it's slightly delayed. But this is a very good
to hearing aid though. Like imagine if... Either he's demonstrating something or he's stealing my phone. - [Austin] Test, test one two. So this is a chest to see- - He said test wrong. He
absolutely said test wrong. - [Austin] Ken, if you can hear
me right now, nod your head. - Wait, what? - [Austin] Okay, I don't actually
know how I'm testing this 'cause I can't see or hear Ken in any way. (Ken laughs) - He's so dumb. Oh my God. - [Man] What happens if
you run your computer inside of your freezer? - Oh, it's going to die
because of condensation, right? Okay, thoughts on this one? If you put your PC in a
freezer, it will overheat, because even though a freezer is like meant to cool things off- - [Ken] There's no air circulation. - Well, there's also way more heat that's being released by your PC than the freezer could take care of. I feel like it's gonna turn into an oven at a certain point. That would not work. - Hello and welcome. I am Austin Evans and
today we are a fridge PC. (upbeat music) All right. So we just put the computer in there, we're gonna let it sit for a minute and let all the parts cool down since they're all still
at that room temperature, which is well above freezing. Okay, so we're gonna go ahead
and run the benchmark now. And we only really have one shot at this because once it's warmed up in there, we have a long wait time
before it cools back down, takes some time. We gotta be patient. You don't do this if you're in a rush. Well, don't do this at all,
but if you're gonna do it, make sure you give yourself some time. - What are you doing
with a PC on the floor? You guys shooting a video
without me right now? - No, 'cause you're here right now. It's not without you. - Why is there a bag of ice behind you? - Well, I mean, we didn't have any room
in the freezer, so. - [Austin] Oh my gosh. - It's extra performance. And we just got our numbers in. Do you want to know how much better it is? - Like, is it even cool in here? - [Jared] Yeah, no, it's cool. - Actually, it is kind of cool in here. - See? We think with our heads sometimes. - Okay. Does this actually work? What are you guys doing? - So we just pulled the scores up. This is our- - That's the same. That's the same Having two scores that
are the same I guess. - So we can see that we
have increased our score by a solid 80 points. - To really do this test
and to see the most benefit, you need to be overclocking and pushing this where you
actually need the cooling. - Exactly. Dude, you didn't even
mention the fact that now my gaming setup- - Yeah. - Has a built-in drinks dispenser. (both laugh) - Only if it's Mountain Dew in there. - Oh, that's- - [Austin] There's no
Mountain Dew in there. - We got, oh, oh, oh. - I need to get back to actual work. Can you please clean this up? (Jared laughs) Jesus. Oh, okay. I like this. - [Man] What happens if you
daisy chain multiple PCI risers and plug in a graphics card? - We use these all the time for all like vertical, like GPU mounts. So he was only able to get
it to run through one riser before it failed. I think if we get actual full 16x risers, which can do full bandwidth
for your graphics card, we can get three, four of those things. We can get a bunch of them that are all gonna be
daisy chained together. So for this one, it's
going to be interesting. I've seen a couple of videos on people trying to do this in the past, but what you need to
understand about PCI risers... What are you doing? - It's the edge of the table. - No, it needs to be on the edge, 'cause it literally will
pull out of the slot. Generally speaking, use one of these. And using it to like
vertically mount your GPU. If you use multiple, you're
not really supposed to, but I guess if we're
building like a desk PC where you want to have like
the GPU on one side of the desk and like your motherboard on
the other, it could be useful. - [Ken] You have five PCI risers. - Yup. - But no power button. - Yeah.
- Yeah. - What's the issue? - You spent $115 per riser, but couldn't buy a $2 power button? - No. - Wait, wait, wait, wait, to be fair, the Corsair ones are least 60. - Guys, wait. But, what's the- - Yeah, actually why is this
one so much more expensive? - Actually, that's a great question. - You bought these. - I grabbed all Corsair and you specifically sent me back. - No, no, no, no, no, no. - Look at the difference
in the flexibility. Look, see the Thermaltake
one is way wimpier. - [Jared] Wait, no, but that's, you want it to be flexible. - No, I want it to be- - [Ken] No, no, no, no. - [Jared] Go ahead and say it. Say it out loud, Austin. - You versus the guy she
tells you not to worry about. - No. No, no, no. This is plenty of flexibility. (Ken laughs) So we've got five feet of risers. - Yeah, I think we might
need to go farther than that. - I am installed here. Is this a handheld GPU, 'cause I don't know if that's
necessarily a great idea. Let's start running it this way. So if the PC's here, we're
gonna run it across the table. There we go. So we're three feet away. GPU's spinning. - All right. - It's a good sign. - It's a very good sign. - So far it works. Updating? Oh God. Windows just wants to update right now. - [Jared] Wait, already? - [Ken] Yeah. - [Jared] We just updated it earlier. - It's updating your system. All right, let's add two more risers. - All right. - It's gonna get really
annoying really fast. - There we are. It is on. - I mean, that's a good first sign. - [Ken] Yeah. - Let's see if it actually wants to post. Oh, well actually, hang on. - Well, it's also updating right now, so that might not be happening. - No, I don't- - I think it's spinning- - Nothing's coming up
on the display though. So is five too many? Five might be too many right now. Let's go ahead and pull
out the fifth riser. So let's try it with four first. - [Jared] Okay. - So will four risers work? Well, I mean GPU immediately spins up, which is a good sign. And monitor comes up. - Oh, there we go. Oh. - What the? Oh! - Oh, honey. - Whoa! - That's a chungus right there. So now we're running with one, two, three, four 300 mil risers and one meter riser. - [Jared] Yes. - Ooh. Oh! Oh! - Whoa! - So that's it. So how
far are we away right now? - No way. So we're 1200 plus, so
we're 2200 right now. - 2200 millimeters away
from our motherboard and the GPU is spinning. I think this is a success.
And that's pretty far away. - It is 86 inches long, which
is just over seven feet. So it is- - That's like- - [Jared] It's taller
than Master Chief is. - Our riser's taller than Master Chief. - [Jared] Yes. - That's a great frame of
reference that everyone knows. - [Jared] Yeah.