If you’ve ever driven or ridden in an automobile, 
there’s a near 100% chance you’ve hit a bump in   the road as you transition onto or off of a 
bridge. In fact, some studies estimate that   it happens on a quarter of all bridges in the US! 
It’s dangerous to drivers and expensive to fix,   but the reason it happens isn’t too complicated to 
understand. It’s a tale (almost) as old as time:   You need a bridge to pass over 
another road or highway. But,   you need a way to get vehicles from ground level 
up to the bridge. So, you design an embankment,   a compacted pile of soil that can be 
paved into a ramp up to the bridge. But,   here’s the problem. Even though the bridge 
and embankment sit right next to each other,   they are entirely different structures with 
entirely different structural behavior. A bridge   is often relatively lightweight and supported on 
a rigid foundation like piles driven or drilled   deep into the ground. An embankment is - if the 
geotechnical engineers will forgive me for saying   it - essentially just a heavy pile of dirt. 
And when you put heavy stuff on the ground,   particularly in places that have naturally soft 
soils like swamps and coastal plains, the ground   settles as a result. If the bridge doesn’t settle 
as much or at the same rate, you end up with a   bump. Over the years, engineers have come up with 
a lot of creative ways to mitigate the settlement   of heavy stuff on soft soils, but one of those 
solutions seems so simple, that it’s almost   unbelievable: just make embankments less heavy. 
Let’s talk about some of the bizarre materials we   can use to reduce weight, and a few of the reasons 
it’s not quite as simple as it sounds. I’m Grady   and this is Practical Engineering. In today’s 
episode, we’re talking about lightweight fills. This video is sponsored by 
HelloFresh. More on them later. The Latin phrase for dry land, “terra firma,” 
literally translates to firm earth. It’s   ingrained in us that the ground is a solid entity 
below our feet, but geotechnical engineers know   better. The things we build often exceed the 
earth’s capacity to withstand their weight,   at least not without some help. Ground 
modification is the technical term for all   the ways we assist the natural soil’s ability 
to bear imposed loads, and I’ve covered quite   a few of them in previous videos, including 
vertical drains that help water leave the soil;   surcharge loading to speed up settlement so it 
happens during construction instead of afterwards;   soil nails used to stabilize slopes; 
and one of the first videos I ever made:   the use of reinforcing elements to create 
mechanically stabilized earth walls. One of the simplest definitions of 
design engineering is just making sure   that the loads don’t exceed the strength 
of the material in question. If they do,   we call it a failure. A failure can 
be a catastrophic loss of function,   like a collapse. But a failure can also be a loss 
of serviceability, like a road that becomes too   rough or a bridge approach that develops a major 
bump. Ground modification techniques mostly focus   on increasing the strength of the underlying soil, 
but one technique instead involves decreasing the   loads, allowing engineers to accept the 
natural resistance of a soft foundation. Let me put you in a hypothetical situation 
to give you a sense of how this works:   Imagine you’re a transportation engineer working 
on a new highway bridge that will replace an   at-grade intersection that uses a traffic 
signal, allowing vehicles on the highway to   bypass the intersection. This is already a busy 
intersection, hence the need for the bypass,   and now you’re going to mess it all up with a 
bunch of construction. You design the embankments   that lead up to the bridge to be built from 
engineered fill - a strong soil material that’s   about as inexpensive as construction gets. You 
hand the design off to your geotechnical engineer,   and they come back with this graph: a plot 
of settlement over time. Let’s just say   you want to limit the settlement of the 
embankment to 2 inches or 5 centimeters   after construction is complete. That’s a pretty 
small bump. This graph says that, to do that,   you’ll have to let your new embankment sit and 
settle for about 3 years before you pave the   road and open the bridge. If you put this up on 
a powerpoint slide at a public meeting in front   of all the people who use this intersection on 
a daily basis, what do you think they’ll say? Most likely they’re going to ask you to find 
a way to speed up the process (politely or   otherwise). From what I can tell from my inbox, 
a construction site where no one’s doing any   work is a commuter’s biggest pet peeve. So, you 
start looking for alternative designs and you   remember a key fact about roadway embankments: 
the weight of the traffic on the road is only   a small part of the total load experienced by 
the natural ground. Most of the weight is the   embankment itself. Soil is heavy. They teach us 
that in college. So what if you could replace   it with something else? In fact, there is 
a litany of granular material that might   be used in a roadway embankment instead of 
soil to reduce the loading on the foundation,   and all of them have unique engineering properties 
(in other words, advantages, and disadvantages). Wood fibers have been used for many years as 
a lightweight fill with a surprisingly robust   service life of around 50 years before 
the organic material decays. Similarly,   roadway embankments have been seen as a popular 
way to reuse waste materials. In particular,   the State of New York has used shredded 
tires as a lightweight fill with success,   so far avoiding the spontaneous combustions that 
have happened in other states. There are also some   very interesting materials that are manufactured 
specifically to be used as lightweight fills. Expanded shale and clay aggregates are formed 
by heating raw materials in a rotary kiln to   temperatures above 1000 celsius. The 
gasses in the clay or shale expand,   forming thousands of tiny bubbles. The aggregate 
comes out of the kiln in this round shape, and it   has a lot of uses outside heavy civil construction 
like insulation, filtration, and growing media for   plants. But round particles like this don’t work 
well as backfill because they don’t interlock. So,   most manufacturers send the aggregate through 
a final crushing and screening process before   the material is shipped out. Another manufactured 
lightweight fill is foamed glass aggregate. This   is created in a similar way to the expanded shale 
where heating the raw material plus a foaming   agent creates tiny bubbles. When the foamed glass 
exits the kiln, it is quickly cooled, causing it   to naturally break up into aggregate sized pieces. 
You can see in my graduated cylinders here that   I have one pound or about half a kilogram of 
soil, sand, and gravel. It takes about twice   as much expanded shale aggregate to make up that 
weight since its bulk density is about half that   of traditional embankment building materials. 
And the foamed glass aggregate is even lighter. All these different lightweight fills can be used 
to reduce the loading on soft soils below roadways   and protect underground utilities from damage, 
but they also have a major advantage when used   with retaining walls: reduced lateral pressure. 
I’ve covered retaining walls in a previous video,   so check that out after this if you want to learn 
more, but here’s an overview. Granular materials   like soil aren’t stable on steep slopes, so 
we often build walls meant to hold them back,   usually to take fuller advantage of a site 
by creating more usable spaces. Retaining   walls are everywhere if you know where to 
look, but they also represent one of the   most underappreciated challenges in civil 
engineering. Even though soil doesn’t flow   quite as easily as water does, it is around 
twice as dense. That means building a wall to   hold back soil is essentially like building a 
dam. The force of that soil against the wall,   called lateral earth pressure, can be 
enormous, and it’s proportional both   to the height of the wall and the density of 
the material it holds back. Here’s an example: When Port Canaveral in Florida decided to expand 
terminal 3 to accommodate larger cruise ships,   they knew they would need not only a new passenger 
terminal building but also a truly colossal   retaining wall to form the wharf. The engineers 
were tasked with designing a wall that would be   around 50 feet (or 15 meters) tall to allow the 
enormous cruise ships to dock directly alongside   the wharf. The port already had stockpiles 
of soil leftover from previous projects,   so the new retaining wall would get its 
backfill for free. But, holding back 50   feet of heavy fill material is not a simple 
task. The engineers proposed a combi-wall system   that is made from steel sheet piles supported 
between large pipe piles for added stiffness,   in addition to a complex tie-back structure to 
provide additional support at the top of the wall.   When the design team considered using lightweight 
fill behind the retaining wall, they calculated   that they could significantly reduce the size of 
the piles of the combi-wall, use a more-commonly   available grade of steel instead of the specialty 
material, and simplify the tie-back system. Even though the lightweight fill was 
significantly more expensive than the   free backfill available at the site, it still 
saved the project about $3 million dollars   compared to the original design. The fill at 
Port Canaveral (and all the lightweight fills   we’ve discussed so far) are granular materials 
that essentially behave like normal soil, sand,   or gravel fills (just with a lower density). They 
still have to be handled, placed, and compacted to   create an embankment or retaining wall backfill 
just like any typical earthwork project. But,   there are a couple of lightweight fills 
that are installed much differently. Concrete can also be made lightweight using some 
of the aggregates mentioned earlier in place of   normal stone and sand, or by injecting foam 
into the mix, often called cellular concrete.   On projects where it’s difficult or time 
consuming to place and compact granular fill,   you can just pump this stuff right out of a hose 
and place it right where it needs to be, speeding   up construction and eliminating the need for lots 
of heavy equipment. There are a few companies that   make cellular concrete, and they can tailor the 
mix to be as strong or lightweight as needed for   the project. You can even get concrete with 
less density than water, meaning it floats! This test cylinder was graciously provided 
by Cell-Crete so I could give you a close   up look at how the product behaves. Of course 
we should try and break it. Let’s put it under   the hydraulic press and see how much force it 
takes. The pressure gauges on my press showed   a force of just under a ton to break this 
sample. That is equivalent to a pressure   of around 200 psi or 1.4 megapascals, much 
stronger than most structural backfills. You’re   not going to be making skyscraper frames 
or bridge girders from cellular concrete,   but it’s more than strong enough to hold 
up to traffic loads without imposing tons   of weight into a retaining wall or 
the soft soils below an embankment. The last lightweight fill used in heavy civil 
construction is also the most surprising:   expanded polystyrene foam, also known 
as EPS and colloquially as styrofoam.   When used in construction, it’s often 
called geofoam, but it’s the same stuff   that makes up your disposable coffee cups, 
mannequin heads, and packaging material.   EPS seems insubstantial because of its weight, 
but it’s actually a pretty strong material in   compression. About 7 years ago I used my car 
to demonstrate the compressive strength of   mechanically stabilized earth. Well, I still 
have that jack and I still drive that car,   so let’s try the experiment with EPS foam. This is probably around 5 to 600 pounds,  and there is some deflection, but the 
block isn’t struggling to hold the weight. In an actual embankment, the 
pavement spreads out traffic   loads so they aren’t concentrated like 
what’s shown in my demonstration to the   point where you would never know 
that you’re driving on styrofoam. EPS foam has some cool benefits, including how 
easy it is to place. The blocks can be lifted by a   single worker, placed in most weather conditions, 
don’t require compaction or heavy equipment,   and can be shaped as needed using hot wires. But 
it has some downsides too. This material won’t   work well for embankments that see standing water 
or high groundwater, because of the buoyancy. The   embankment could literally float away. They’re 
also so lightweight that you have to consider a   new force that most highway engineers don’t think 
about when designing embankments: the wind. Also,   because EPS foam is such a good insulator, 
it creates a thermal disconnect between the   pavement and the underlying ground, making 
the road more susceptible to icing. Finally,   EPS foam has a weakness to a substance that 
is pretty regularly spilled onto roadways:   it dissolves in fuel. If a crash, spill, 
or leak were to happen on an embankment   that uses EPS foam without a properly designed 
barrier, the whole thing could just melt away. Even with all those considerations, EPS foam is a 
popular choice for lightweight fills. We even have   a nice government report on best practices 
called Guideline and Recommended Standard   for Geofoam Applications in Highway Embankments 
(if you’re looking for some lightweight bedtime   reading). It was used extensively in Seattle on 
the replacement of the Alaskan Way Viaduct to   avoid overstressing the landfill materials that 
underlie major parts of the city. Thousands of   drivers in Seattle and millions of people around 
the world drive over lightweight embankments,   probably without any knowledge of what’s below 
the pavement. But the next time you pass over a   bridge and don’t feel a bump transitioning 
between the deck and roadway embankments,   it might just be lightweight aggregate, 
cellular concrete, or geofoam below your   tires working to make our infrastructure as 
cost-effective and long-lasting as possible. Speaking of lightweight, one of my goals in 
2023 is to keep eating healthy meals for dinner.   That’s a lot easier with HelloFresh, 
sponsor of this channel since 2019,   which means my wife and I have been filming 
ourselves cooking dinner together for 4 years   now. Sometimes we do it as part of the bedtime 
hustle, and sometimes we wait until the kids   go to bed and treat it like a date night. That 
has it’s benefits, but it has its downsides too. “I’m hungry” “I’m hungry!”
“Did I mention that I’m hungry?” “Does it say to do them one 
at a time? Grady, I’m hungry!” Luckily, HelloFresh’s latest line of meals, 
called Fast & Fresh, are ready in around 15   to 20 minutes. That’s faster than if you ordered 
delivery, and way faster than going to the grocery   store. Which means we have a lot more time to 
spend doing things we love, and spending time   with the people we love too. HelloFresh sends 
preportioned ingredients and easy-to-follow   recipe cards so you don’t have to be an expert 
chef… or even very good at cooking at all.  “Why don’t you just turn your bread 
upside down and rub it in that?”  You can turn cooking from a chore to your 
favorite thing to do on date night or any night   with HelloFresh, and right now they have a really 
nice discount for anyone who wants to try it out.   Go to HelloFresh dot com and use code PRACTICAL65 
to get 65% off plus free shipping. We obviously   love this service, and I think you will too. “I don’t know if you’re aware, but I am hungry.”  That’s HelloFresh dot com and use code PRACTICAL65 
at checkout to support the channel and try   something fun and new for the new year. Thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think.