- Hey guys, this is Austin! Chrome OS, ever since I got to take a look at the very first developer model, the CR48, all the way
back in ye olden 2011. The promise was absolutely there. Get rid of all the legacy stuff, of Mac OS and Windows, in favor of something which is, cleaner, simpler, which just works. I feel like I'm tryna say that like, Chrome OS is like the
vegan option of laptops. It's hard to argue with in theory. You've got a clean build of Linux, with just the Chrome browser on top. And realistically, you can get a lot of what you need done inside of Chrome. Especially considering that
most of these Chromebooks have very low end specs. We're talking Intel Celeron processors, or Rockchip processors. And you don't need a lot of power, to simply just run a web browser. And then there's the idea of having a more locked down system, can
actually be a real benefit. I mean, sure, you probably
know that you shouldn't really go visit sketchy site .org. But there are tons and tons
of Chromebooks in schools. Kids might not necessarily
have that same level of, of forethought and thinking
behind not opening every attachment and downloading
every weird emoji pack that you can see. Oh I guess they do it on
their phones, so, you know. And really think about it. Back in 2011. - Hi I'm Rebecca Black of 2011. This year was a huge year for YouTube. - There were a fair few things you could do inside a web browser. These days web apps have
gotten much more powerful. I know personally, I can
pretty much do everything on a day to day basis,
purely just inside a browser. So, things like Spotify,
Google Docs, Gmail. All these things run
just fine on Chrome OS. And arguably, that's sort
of the main selling point. Chrome really is simple,
clean and elegant. It's the vegan option of PC's. But of course the question is, can you actually do everything you need, inside Chrome OS? (upbeat music) I've gone on and off with Chromebooks over the last few years. In fact, I originally started working on this video last year,
with this Asus Chromebook. However I didn't actually,
finish the video. But today, with the brand
new Pixelbook Go coming out, is Chrome OS good enough,
or should you just ignore your plant based diet and go
straight to being a carnivore? A.K.A a Windows user, or a Mac user. I like that this metaphor went from like, a little joke to like, the
entire purpose of my video. And I'm kind of okay with that. Honestly just stay off the internet, that's really the best advice. And Chrome OS is the exact opposite way that you wanna do that. (upbeat music) Lets start with the Pixelbook go itself. This is the first time that Google has brought out their own first
party laptop in a couple years. If you don't count the Pixel
Slate, and you shouldn't. And the nice thing here,
is that this hardware feels very very premium. Now, the nice thing about
this, is a lot of the cheaper Chromebooks feel, shall we say, cheapy? Where as this is still super
thin, and super lightweight. But the important thing here
is that, in a hand it feels like a solid piece of laptop hardware. I feel pretty confident in
this lasting quite a while. It's made out of a
finely painted magnesium, which is one of the
things that helps it to be not only lightweight. One of the interesting things here, is that it's got this
sort of washboard texture. You're also getting an excellent keyboard, with great travel, and
honestly it's actually one of the quietest laptop
keyboards I've ever used. And around on the side, you actually get a pretty solid selection
of ports, for a Chromebook. A pair of USB-C ports, which
can not only handle power. They can also do data as
well as each can handle a 4K display. Which I tested, and it actually works. Not that lots of people with Chromebooks, are probably using multiple 4K displays. Is that a little
unrealistic of a use case? No, it is certainly not perfect. The specs are shall we say, not exactly blisteringly fast. Now I have the base model here, which comes with a
dual-core, Core m3 processor. Eight gigs of RAM as well
as 64 gigs of storage. And considering that
we're just web browsing, it's fine, but at $650,
you're definitely paying a lot for this design, and you're
not really spending a lot of money on the actually
spending money on the actual spec inside. The screen is also fine, it's
a 1080p 13 inch touchscreen. And while the brightness and
the viewing angles are fine, the bezels are a little
bit thick on this guy. And something I really miss
from the original Pixelbook, is the ability to actually
use a full two in one design. This guy just does, I mean. (upbeat music) It's fine, it's a normal laptop. But I just kind of
expect a little bit more. Especially considering
just how thin and light this laptop is. You actually could legitimately use it as a pretty useful two in one, but you can't. Honestly, my biggest
problem with this hardware is just the price. At $650 for the base model,
that's a lot of money for a Chromebook. And this thing gets incredibly
expensive as you start to add upgrades like a Core i5, more storage. there's a 4K display option which is like $1400. Like it just doesn't make a lot of sense. - Wait it costs $1400? - $1400, okay no, the
entire laptop costs $1400 when you upgrade, but its very expensive. There are other Chromebooks on the market which have very similar
specs for far less money. Take the $650 option
and compare it to this Asus Chromebook, which only
costs a little less than $400. The same Core m3, same
memory, same storage, slightly bigger screen. It's kind of hard to justify. Don't get me wrong, this is
still probably the nicest Chromebook that you could buy,
but with this kind of money, you're not just competing with two and three hundred dollar Chromebooks. You're competing with
full on Windows laptops, which really begs the question, if the hardware's largely
there, is Chrome OS? Spoiler, it's complicated, and
it depends on your use case. And whether or not you
need to do real work. The easy answer is, actually
a lot of people can use a Chromebook everyday,
provided you do have one with at least, sort of,
decent specs like this guy. Now, in addition to the fairly wide range of web apps out there, you
also do have access to most Android apps using the Play Store. Now of course, these
are still Android apps running on a Chromebook, which means that the quality is maybe not
quite as nice as say, oh I don't know, a native
Mac, or Windows app. Twitter's a really big
offender, it looks fine when you have it sort of
squished to the side of the screen, but the second
you go full screen with it, it looks ridiculous. There are a few examples
of apps which do run really well on Chrome OS. I know Adobe's Lightroom
in particular has been designed, obviously it's
based on the Android app. But there are a lot of
optimizations specifically for a large screen, keyboard
track pad for Chrome OS. Then you've got some
other stuff which is nice. So there's a full file
browser, and there's even a fairly rudimentary version
of Linux which you can install which while not full blown
or anything is definitely a nice little feature. Sometimes though, there are just no ways around the limitations
of a Chrome OS device. Now, sure, if you can
do a lot of basic tasks on Chromebook, more power to you. But, I think the issue here
is that a lot of people can do a lot of this
stuff on mobile devices. Such as, phones and tablets. Really when you come to a PC,
a lot of times that's because you need a specific feature. Whether you're doing CAD or video editing, or you're doing Photoshop. All these things generally speaking, require a fairly beefy PC. This is where your specific
use case really matters. It isn't 2011 anymore, and Windows and Mac but specifically Windows 10,
has made a ton of strides towards sort of, fending off
the Chromebook onslaught. Windows has absolutely
filled a lot of the void that Chromebook started to pick
up in those early days. I mean, when Chromebooks first came out, when the major advantages,
and even to this day has been in the price category. Put simply, you could get a
very very cheap Chromebook, because all it needs you
to do is run a web browser. Nowadays though, Windows 10 laptops have actually come down a lot in price. And while a lot of the laptops have pretty crappy hardware,
and not much in the way of screens or specs or anything. But the important thing is,
is they're about the same price as a Chromebook. And generally speaking, of
course you're getting a full version of Windows, as
opposed to a more limited operating system in Chrome OS. Speaking of things that you
can't do on a Chromebook, this video was actually
part of an editing challenge between a Mac and a PC. And between Justine and Linus. And as of recording
this, I have no idea who actually won and who was the edit that we used to post this video. I'm actually very curious to
see how this video came out. And if it sucks, you can blame them. - Justine will probably win though. Because Final Cut's better. - Final Cut is better. Oh wait no, I can't say that. Goodbye! Thanks for editing my video. Hopefully it wasn't that long. And I believe in you,
you're gonna win this. You've definitely got
this, I believe in you. - Justine. - No, I'm talking to
everyone who's watching this. Whoever actually ends up editing this. I have no idea. And make sure to make me look good. (upbeat music)