At 7:58 AM on April 3rd, 2024, Taiwan experienced
a big earthquake, measured at magnitude 7.2. As of this writing, there are thirteen dead
and nearly a thousand are injured - mostly due to rockfalls. There are a few trapped, for whom rescue efforts
are ongoing. Life is precious, and my heart goes out to
the victims and their families. Of course, people want to know about the fabs. They are fine. TSMC and other semiconductor companies across
Taiwan are reporting that the financial impact will be minimal. It is a huge contrast to the last big earthquake
back in 1999, which staggered the Hsinchu tech companies and made the world news. What changed? In this video, we look at the measures that
TSMC and other semiconductor companies undertook in wake of the 1999 earthquake to keep their
fabs and people safe. ## Beginnings Taiwan's most infamous earthquake in recent
memory occurred in September 1999 - the 921 earthquake. It was a magnitude 7.3 quake that hit the
central area of Nantou. Over 2,400 people died and 11,000 were injured
- the second most in Taiwan's history after another quake in 1935. TSMC, UMC, and other major electronics companies
were then highly concentrated within Hsinchu. They were unprepared for the earthquake and
it brought the chipmakers to a standstill. In the end, TSMC reported that 17,000 wafers
were lost as they were inside process equipment at the time - about 50% of their total monthly
production. No one else reported official numbers on wafer
losses. Worse yet, the earthquake came as suppliers
were ramping up for a holiday in the midst of a secular rising trend. Demand for TSMC silicon in 1999 was up 40%
from 1998, leading to shortages for PC and electronics companies in Japan and the US. Total damages for the Taiwanese semiconductor
industry - at a time when TSMC was only responsible for 7% of global IC production - were $10
billion or about $18 billion today. But this number is more nuanced than what
you might think. ## The Fab Back in 1999, the fabs owned by TSMC and other
semiconductor makers in Taiwan featured a double-shell structure. On the outside, you have a fab shell. The fab shell is a simple one-story structure
with long-span roof trusses. This just means that the roof is built to
span wide distances without the need for interior supports. Inside the shell is a multi-story interior
structure made from reinforced concrete. The cleanroom sits on the top floor, with
a second clean "sub-fab" below it to house supporting equipment. There is an air gap between the shell and
interior structure to shelter the cleanroom from micro-vibrations coming from the outside
winds. Both structures sit on a concrete foundation
about 2-3 meters thick. Again, this is to minimize vibrations from
nearby cars or construction. Piles might be driven into the soil as needed. The civil construction is about 3-5% of the
fab's total cost. As mentioned, the vast majority - 75-80% - goes
to the equipment inside. This means a little bit of extra investment
can go a long way. ## Bad Vibrations The 1999 earthquake's epicenter was about
100 kilometers away from Hsinchu, where the Science Park is based. Peak ground acceleration or PGA - the acceleration
of the ground at the earthquake's worst - was measured at 0.1 to 0.15 g-forces. This is as expected for a 7.2 earthquake about
100 kilometers away from the fabs. For reference, the Taiwan government measured
the April 2024 earthquake's impact on Hsinchu similarly. Based on this map and my eyeballing, Hsinchu
experienced a PGA of about 140 centimeters per seconds squared or 0.14 G. The PGA in Tainan - where TSMC's biggest manufacturing
complexes are located - was even lighter - 25 centimeters or 0.025 G-forces. ## Vibing In the case of 1999, structural damage was
reported as minimal with the exception of one Hsinchu site sitting on an ancient lakebed. Mostly minor cracking of external tiles as
well as cracks in the internal walls. Inside the structures, it is estimated that
the amount of acceleration needed to move an average piece of equipment sitting on the
cleanroom floor was measured to be 0.2 g-forces. This implies that friction alone would keep
most unanchored tools grounded. Observation reports found that most tools
were unanchored except for those containing hazardous chemicals. Since the cleanroom sits on top of a multi-story
concrete structure, there is a chance of vibrations intensifying like a Jenga tower. Furthermore, there is a chance of secondary
quake damage. Wafer processing requires the use of poisonous
and hazardous chemicals like hydrofluoric and sulphuric acid. Leakages can cause massive problems to the
cleanroom. But modern semiconductor facilities have systems
that shut down pipes when unnatural vibrations are detected. These worked as expected. No problems there. Apparently there were reports of some wet
etch tools - basically chemical baths where you dip wafers into to etch them - splashing
their chemicals during the shaking. But those flowed into the disposal system
and little damage was reported. And then it was reported that the sprinklers
went off in one factory at Hsinchu - unclear which company's - and that ruined one photolithography
machine and significantly damaged another. ## Equipment Damage: Furnaces The most significant equipment damage from
the 1999 earthquake was to the vertical diffusion furnaces. As the name indicates, these are furnaces
used to diffuse impurities into the silicon. These are often used during the doping part
of the semiconductor manufacturing process. The "vertical" part of the name indicates
that it stands up vertically - allowing us to process batches of wafers all at once. They can be up to 3 meters tall. 90% of these furnaces were damaged by the
1999 earthquake - with damage defined as silica tube damage, position gaps, or wafers falling
off their securings. Apparently because the furnace itself is so
tall and thin, it is quite susceptible to shaking. In 2013, the Japanese construction company
Taisei Corporation reported that they installed a seismic isolation tool to deal with this. It is basically like a roller-ball-on-rail
system that you put under the row of furnace devices. The furnace pulls in gas and electricity from
a secondary system underneath the floor, so the seismic isolation system includes a flexible
pipe system to ensure the connections underneath the floor do not break. That same year, TSMC reported in a case study
that they had installed a similar seismic isolation platform for their vertical furnace
tools. ## Stockers A major cause of wafer damage during the 1999
quake occurred through damage to the stockers. Work-in-progress wafers do not travel around
the fab exposed. They are enclosed within pods called FOUPs,
front opening unified pod. When waiting for their next process step for
whatever reason, the wafers and their FOUPs are stored on vertical shelves called Stockers. They are typically 4-5 meters tall and made
from aluminium. During the 1999 earthquake, many of the wafers
fell out of their stockers and FOUPs and were lost. So the chipmakers apparently installed stoppers,
braces and dampers - which are items to reduce shaking - to secure the stockers. Then in February 2016, there was the southern
Taiwan earthquake - measured at 6.4. It was relatively shallow - 23 kilometers
- and the epicenter was in Kaohsiung, not that far away from the Tainan fabs. That Tainan earthquake, because of its proximity
to TSMC's core fabs, delayed some 120,000 wafers in Fabs 6 and 12A by about 10-50 days. During that earthquake, the fabs' peak floor
acceleration experienced about 0.3 G-forces. But because the stockers are tall and bolted
to the floor, the acceleration forces experienced by the FOUPs were double that. Wafers collided and some fell out. New research suggests that it makes more sense
to install the dampers near the top of the stockers rather than putting them between
neighboring shelves as was previously suggested. It is not clear if TSMC adopted this, though
their 2017 case study suggests they did reinforce their tower stockers with additional stoppers. ## Dampers The 1999 earthquake made it clear to TSMC
and other companies that older fabs had to be retrofitted. Retrofits of course are challenging. The sub-fab floor is already full of equipment,
leaving limited space for new equipment. Moreover, retrofits cannot affect ongoing
semiconductor production - no way they stop the fab line. We cannot use gas, welding, and must avoid
generating dust particles. So TSMC engineers used what are called "viscous
dampers". These are hydraulic pistons installed into
the gap between the external fab shell and the interior structure. During an earthquake, the viscous dampers
absorb some seismic energy, dissipating it. Computer simulations of earthquakes at PGAs
of 0.3 g-forces - remember, the 1999 earthquake ranged at 0.1 to 0.15 - showed reduced stress
on supports and cut acceleration of cleanroom floors by 20%. This is good, but it is warned that dampers
will not have a significant impact if the building is hit by a major earthquake - especially
one more severe than what it is currently designed for. Newer semiconductor fabs built thereafter
can be built with modern anti-seismic technologies. This includes raised floors to add a void
for seismic isolation, and floating piles to dissipate seismic energy in the soil foundation. These were also detailed in the 2017 TSMC
case study. ## Early Warning After a damaging earthquake in Hualien in
1986, Taiwan developed at least three networks of earthquake sensors located throughout the
island. These are operated by various government and
university-affiliated organizations. My best guess is that TSMC adopted the network
set up by the National Center for Research on Earthquake Engineering, or NCREE, one of
Taiwan's national research labs. When an earthquake hits, seismic waves travel
outwards from the epicenter like ripples in a pond. First comes the Primary Waves or P-waves - which
are low-intensity. After that are Secondary-Waves or S-waves,
large surface acoustic waves that travel across the surface. They are slower than the P-waves but cause
more damage. I mentioned these waves during my video on
SAW RF filters. Surface Acoustic Waves from earthquakes contributed
to the early learnings on the science behind those RF products. The Early Warning Network is made up of several
dozen stations across Taiwan. Sensors measure the Peak Ground Acceleration
for 1-3 seconds and send a signal to the central server. The server determines whether there is an
earthquake using an algorithm and sends the alert out. Seismic waves can travel 80 kilometers in
15 to 20 seconds. If the Early Warning System works as planned,
then it can give people or a fab about 3-17 seconds of warning. Depending on where the epicenter is. It was originally used to give early warning
to Taiwan's schools, but in late 2015 or early 2016 TSMC had a system installed as well and
it seemed to have played a significant role during the Southern earthquake that February. I should note that with this 2024 earthquake,
a few early warning systems did not trigger. I live in Taipei and did not get an cellphone
alert. ## The Real Damage So if the 1999 earthquake didn't do that much
physical damage to the fabs, then how did it end up so financially damaging? As it turned out, the most financially significant
damage wasn't from the quake itself, but from interruptions of power to the fabs in the
wake of the quake and its aftershocks. In the weeks after the quake, the Taiwanese
government struggled to get the power situation in Hsinchu back under control. This was despite a stated priority to supply
the Science Park with power over even residential homes. When the power to the equipment cuts out,
the voltage suddenly drops, creating a situation known as "voltage sag". Abruptly pulling the plug on your PC causes
damage to it. Not hard to imagine the same thing happening
for a $50 million DUV lithography machine. Voltage sags do happen from time to time even
without earthquakes - TSMC memorably froze all production just before January 1st, 2000
because they were worried about the Y2K bug cutting power. After the main earthquake, power interruptions
continued for another two weeks. The fabs had built emergency measures for
voltage sag, but these items were not meant to power the fabs for extended periods of
time. So when the power cuts out, the fab people
first have to wait until the power comes back to learn the situation. Work-in-process wafers have to be discarded. And another 2-3 days are spent to repair and
recalibrate the machines. Thus, 95% of the reported $10 billion damages
suffered were not from actual physical damage to equipment and facilities, but lost revenues
from infrastructure cuts and business interruptions. In 2024, Taiwan's power utility Taipower shut
down four power generation units for checks and cut power in the eastern half of the island. But on the west side, the grid has so far
held on. Perhaps due to recent buildouts of solar and
wind energy. ## Conclusion Restarting production will take time and care. Nikkei Asia gives a hint about the work needed
to get everything back on line. Wafers need to be inspected, the machines
need to be tested, and procedures have to be run. It could be a few weeks before everything
is 100%. It is an all-hands-on-deck kind of thing. And Taiwanese media reports on full parking
lots late into the night in the wake of the earthquake. I know that for some people, the earthquake
is only another reminder that Taiwan - or Japan - shouldn't be relied upon for semiconductors. I can see the comments now. Yes, TSMC and the rest of the Taiwanese semiconductor
industry have been lucky. There hasn't been a serious quake in Hsinchu
since a 6.0 aftershock of the infamous April 1935 earthquake. But earthquakes are a natural phenomena, and
can hit anywhere. We just had an earthquake hit the New York
City area. The bright side is that because they are natural,
they can be ameliorated through good engineering, best practices, and training. Taiwanese people have been dealing with earthquakes
for decades. They know what to do. I wish the best for the families who have
lost loved ones in the 2024 earthquake. I hope they find peace.