- Playing alone sucks. I had so much fun at Whale LAN that I'm ready to pack up
and go to another LAN party. But no compromises this time. I want all the performance,
and I want all of my games. - [Voiceover] Ai-yah!
(bones crackling) - Ooh, this is not gonna work. If only there was some portable device that you could use to
replace your desktop, but without compromising on performance. Maybe it could be battery
powered with a keyboard attached. (choir singing) It's a laptop. When MSI heard that we
wanted to go all out on a mobile battle station. They stepped up to sponsor
this video with the Titan GT77. The most powerful laptop they offer. And we're gonna be upgrading it and extending it to the limit to make it a true desktop replacement. ("Supernova") Let's start with what it comes with. Every GT77 includes a
128 gigabyte flash drive. An M99 RGB gaming mouse. And a little Lucky the Dragon key chain. All of which I'm going to, oh, my God, find at some point here. (test signal tone rings) Because this machine
is designed for people who want the most overkill
possible performance, there's actually not a ton of choice when it comes to configurations. Our model, the 12-UHS, has a 3080 Ti. More on that in a bit. But, there's also a 3070 Ti available if that's too fast for you. And, in either case, you can choose between an
i9-12900HX, that's what we've got, or a i7-12800HX. Each with the same eight P-Core,
eight E-Core configuration. We've got all of this linked down below. Now, being in North America, our laptop is equipped with
a 120 hertz 4K IPS display. That's what they claimed. DCI-P3 coverage of 100%. Like a hundred? Like, wow. Alright. And, if you're in other markets, there's also a 1080p 360 hertz option in case you're looking for every possible competitive
advantage for gaming. Good gravy. And the best part, is that
if anyone tries to steal it, not only will they get tired trying to carry it down the street. But, you can throw this
power brick at them, likely stop them in their tracks. I think I trust it farther
than I could throw it. 330 watts. Nice reversible power connector. But, before we plug it in, why don't we crack it open? And see what it needs that
(object crashing) 330 watts for. Eleven screws later. It's time to reveal a feature that is exclusive to
laptops of this caliber, assuming I can actually get it to open. Come on, baby. Come on, you can do it. Okay, this is sick. Check this out. Not one, not two, but four memory slots. So you can load up a whopping 128 gigs of DDR5 memory in this thing. And, four. Count them. One, two, three, four SSD slots. That wild, or what? A quick word, by the way,
about these M.2 slots. The two up here are wired
directly to the CPU, while these two go through the chipset. MSI helpfully silkscreens this
Intel onto the motherboard, or you can just follow the
traces if you're a big nerd. For now, though, three of
them are painfully empty and that just won't do for our
overkill laptop build here. Is this thing on? Hmm. Oh, maybe we should power it off before I poke around too much
more with the screwdriver. The fastest way to fix this problem is to unplug the battery, which, I mean, we should be doing when we're working on it, anyway. Step 1, is to double our included memory, from 64 gigs to 128 gigs with these two 64 gig kits from Crucial. It should be noted that
having four sticks like this does put additional strain on our integrated memory controller, so we're gonna be limited to 3,600 mega transfer per second speeds. Holy crap! Are we putting 32 terabytes
of storage on this thing? 32 terabytes of storage in a laptop. The numbers gotten so big,
it sounds small again. 'Cause like it can't possibly be that, you know what I mean?
- Yeah. - Like if I say, yeah, it was 32 terabytes of
storage in this laptop, you'd go, oh, wow, it's a
Chromebook probably then. - Yeah.
- You're thinking gigabytes. No, no, no, no! Order of magnitude higher. We actually missed something. The keened eye among
you might have noticed that this M.2 slot is
a little bit special. It actually supports PCIe Gen 5. Unfortunately, Gen 5 SSDs
haven't quite hit the market yet. But this laptop will
be ready when they do. Probably this fall when all
the next gen CPUs arrive. Until then, we're gonna make do with our Gen 4 8 terabyte drive. (Crew laughs) And each one of these is four
times our original storage, which means we're at 16X
our original storage. That's actually more in storage than the cost of the laptop to start with. And, before you ask, yes,
we're gonna be RAID-ing them. We did RAID-0, right?
- Oh, yeah. - Huh, that's really stupid.
(crew laughs) Like, really stupid. One drive fails, whole thing gone. But realistically, we're just loading it up
with games anyway, right? So. We're almost ready to do that, but, first, there's a few things that we wanna take a look at inside. This is a 99.99 watt-hour battery, that is literally as large
as the law will permit if you wanna take your
laptop on a plane with you. Not that I would necessarily, eh. Ah, yeah, you could travel with it. Portable workstation, sure. Ah, we've got a pair of 2 watt speakers as well as a WiFi 6E
capable killer wifi card, which is, dat-dat-dat-dat-dat-da,
right there. To be clear, ah, killer
no longer means bad. It's actually got, it's an Intel chipset. So, cool. Of course, the piece de la
resistance is the 3080 Ti. This is a full fledged, non Max-Q design with 16 gigs of GDDR6 that will suck back up to 175 watts to hit a maximum boost
speed of 1,640 megahertz. And with an integrated MUX
switch, you can be sure that you're connected
to the 3080 Ti directly, rather than route it through the IGPU, which means you're gonna be
getting the most frames possible out of your laptop. That 175 watts is part
of the 250 watts total that MSI's OverBoost
provides to distribute between the CPU and the CPU
via Nvidia Dynamic Boost 2.0. What it essentially means is
that in GPU limited games, where you need every single
one of those 175 watts to feed the 3080 Ti, you'll still have 75 watts left over for the 12900HX to hit a
maximum turbo of 5 gigahertz. On the flip side, in CPU limited games
or other applications, either of the 16 core CPUs
available for this laptop can draw up to 150 watts, leaving just 80 remaining for the GPU. Unfortunately, no, you
can't have 175 and 150, because it's just not possible
to do in this form factor. And like, you'd be
overwhelming your brick. Remember, you gotta have all
kinds of other power available for connected peripherals and all that good stuff too, right? Now, keeping this mess cool are four fans. That's right! One, two, three, four fans in a laptop, which are all fed through
the ventilation holes in the bottom panel. There are also a total
of six exhaust vents. Although, in fairness, this back one kinda counts
as one gigantic exhaust. More impressive than the
number of fans though is the number of heat pipes. Let's count them, shall we? One, this one goes from
GPU to just this heatsink. Two, this one goes almost
in a complete square and is also dedicated to the GPU, feeding both this radiator
and this one with heat. Now, because we can share our power, that means we also need
to share our cooling. So this one runs over to
this and this heatsink in case our GPU is getting extra power and needs extra cooling. There's a little heat pipe right here that seems to be, just for memory? It looks like memory. Then with number five,
this one goes from our CPU all the way over to these
radiators right here, one, two. Six, this one is almost
a full circle again. And goes one, two, covers three radiators and goes over the CPU. Seven, these two rads, and the CPU. Took a little while to power on, thanks to our bizarro
RAID-0 boot configuration. Like, over a minute. Okay, this is an interesting strategy. To accommodate the powerful
internal components, MSI has a bit of a, ahem, caboose on the back of the machine. And I guess, rather than
try and stealthify it, they're like business at the
front, party in the back. It's got full RGB, (chuckles) RGB butt. Wear it, wear it loud and proud, right? Just own it, just own it. Yeah, I'm a big laptop, mm, mm, yeah. Anyone else noticing a problem right now? I'm sure it's gonna ramp
up to be very clear. But, yeah, there it goes. At idle, it is damn near silent. Okay, this is hilarious. We've a grand total of 372 Steam games
installed on this machine. And the best part? We're not even close to filling it up. (heavy energetic music) This is kinda nutty. We're not getting the full benefit of our 120 hertz display
on "Ultra Nightmare" at 4k. But that's unreasonable. But what we are seeing is anywhere from 80 to
110 frames per second. I would not have thought
this level of performance is possible for a laptop,
even just a few years ago. This is a cool, little feature. If the FPS indicator isn't
enough for you to know (chuckles) you can check if the integrated GPU or the dedicated GPU is running, simply by looking at the color of the LED
on the power button. So it's red right now, which means our dedicated
graphics card is running. Ooh, nice. But, actually tabbing out of the game won't be enough to change that. If I exit the game, boop, hmm, does it take a little while to decide to switch over to the IGPU? Well, oh, so there we go. Yup, it's white now. Oh, and it's red again. Oh, 'cause when you're
plugged in, obviously, you might as well just
use the 3080 Ti, cool. For a game at the other
end of the spectrum, I fired up "CS:GO." And the idea here is that
I wanna see what kind of power our CPU is drawing
now compared to our GPU. So we're running at somewhere in the neighborhood of
250, 300 frames per second. Boop-boop-boo, boo-boo-boo-boo. And, yeah, our GPU's only in the
neighborhood of 120, 130 watts. Our CPU actually is only
sitting at about 60, 65. Again, it's surprisingly quiet in game. But we're barely stressing
the cooling system. To be clear, I can hear it just fine. But compared to the way
that some gaming laptops, especially like the high-powered,
reasonably thin ones, will just sound like they're
gonna take off from the table. It's downright reasonable. (gun bangs) You know, for little tiny speakers, (gun bangs) honestly not bad. (In-game voiceover speaks indistinctly) (guns blaring) Blah, blah, blah, ba-blah, ba-blah. - [In-Game voice] Aagh!
(laughs) - 97 damage, gosh, darn it. - [In-Game voice] This is the end. Yes, I wish to exit. Something we haven't talked about yet is the IO on this thing
put some desktops to shame. Each of these USB Type As
runs at 20 gigabit per second. We've got one, two, three of those. A UHS-1 SD card slot. Headset jack. And then back around to the other side, that is not one but two
Thunderbolt 4 ports, as well as a Mini Display
port and an HDMI out. Oh, yeah, 2.5 gig LAN too. And more cool stuff. MSI has gone with a low
profile Cherry MX keyboard powered by SteelSeries. So you can use SteelSeries' software in order to configure everything from per key macros to
per key RGB lighting. We also have a large glass
touchpad, fingerprint sensor, and 720p IR webcam. And the infrared is really important 'cause that means you
can use Windows Hello and you'll never have to type
your password or a pin again. Though, if you do prefer a pin, it's actually got a number pad for you gaming accountants out there. At 23 millimeters thick
and 1.8 pounds lighter, the GT77 looks like an obvious win compared to the GT76 that it replaces. You guys can check it out at the link in the video description. Man, you can pack a lot of performance in a gaming laptop these days, assuming that it's got a large butt, mm. I mean, if you look at it, it's all basically cooling, right? Like, they've taken the normal
laptop form factor here, 16 by 9, they've gone, yep, all cooling. Well, that would've been extra thickness, but it's actually, probably
quite a bit more efficient to do it this way, which would
explain why it's so quiet.