- All right, so this is the Humane AI Pin. It is a brand new product, and a really, really
interesting form factor of an ultra futuristic wearable computer. So in a time of all these
crazy gadgets and Vision Pro, and wearable glasses, it's so sick that we get so many genuinely new first
generation products like this to give a shot. Unfortunately, it's also
the new worst product I think I've ever reviewed,
in its current state. There's just so many things bad about it. It's so bad, in fact, that I think it's actually
kind of distracting to like understand what
the point of the device is as we go through it. So I'm gonna have to separate
it out for this video. First, I'm gonna tell you what it is, and what it's supposed to do, and then I'll tell you what my experience has actually been using it. (mellow instrumental music) So this thing is a
small, wearable computer, with an AI inside, that can help you throughout your day. It's about the size of a large watch. It has a camera and a microphone, and can interact with
the world around you. But in case you can't use that as input, there's also a touch pad
and a projector inside, with this super new
style of gesture control, with the projection on your hand. It costs $700, plus... A $24 a month subscription plan for the data that comes with it, and all the services and
all the online storage. But yeah, $700, plus a subscription. It's already a fun start. So one of the big things off the top is, this does not pair to
your smartphone at all. This is its own standalone device, with its own internet connection, with its own phone number. And so this little AI assistant just goes everywhere with
you, it's always connected, and that's... You can choose how much
or how little to use it alongside your smartphone. So you know, on its face, maybe that's kind of
a cool idea, at least. Like the idea is you
talk to it like a person, it answers questions, it
gives you historical facts, or personalized recommendations, or helps you out with things, like brainstorming or remembering things. It can make phone calls,
and send text messages. A ton of stuff. The unfortunate reality though, is this thing is too much of a pain to use to actually want to do most of that stuff alongside your phone. But we'll get there. (mellow instrumental music) All right, let me actually
start with the hardware. This little thing, the
build of this thing, is actually impressive. Like genuinely, I think if
you're looking for a reason to feel like you're
not getting ripped off, the hardware packaging actually
kind of accomplishes that. Like this pin is solid, it's
aluminum, it's dense feeling. There's three colors, actually. There's all matte black,
which is the cheapest one. Or for a hundred bucks more, you can get white or
this black and silver one that I'm using. And then there's a lot of
sensors packed up there. There's a camera, there's
microphones, there's lights, there's a tiny class 2 laser projector. So this whole thing is
like really densely packed. And then the magnets also
that connect everything, are super strong. So the back of this pin
is called a "booster". It's another battery. So it's got its own internal battery, but then once you attach
it to your clothes, it cleverly, through your
clothes, magnetizes there. It makes a nice sound when you do. And that's how you get it attached. So you get two of these boosters. And since there's the internal battery, you can literally hot swap between them so the thing stays alive. Very clever. And then it also comes with
this extremely well-made, and also very, very
reflective charging case. So you can pop it in there,
or just your battery in there, keep it topped off. That charges by USB Type-C. This thing is nice. And it also comes with this
like desktop charging puck, where you can magnetize in the battery, or the whole thing. The pin and the booster at the same time. So that is a lot of charging and battery related accessories, but they all come with it. And this pin, you know, it's also got these
lights up at the top here that light up anytime
you're doing anything. And there's also a small
pin light notification for when there's
something waiting for you. So between the weight of the parts and the strength of the magnets,
how it all slaps together, like you can tell that a lot of effort was put into the
craftsmanship of this product, which I very much appreciate. It's the best part of the pin, by a lot. (mellow instrumental music) Okay, I want you to forget
about the smartphone in your pocket for a second. Like just for a minute, just
pretend that doesn't exist. Ignore it, right? This little pin can do a lot
of stuff, and is very helpful. So again, think of this
thing as an AI assistant that's like by your side,
all the time with you. So, you can ask it things. It doesn't have a wake word, it only turns the mic on and
listens when you touch it. So you can go... (AI Pin beeps) How tall is the Empire State Building? (AI Pin beeps) And then when you let go, it starts sending that
query off to the crowd. The- - [AI Pin] The Empire State Building is 1,454 feet tall to the tip. - The Cloud. And then gets you an
answer, which is great. And it also is multimodal. So that means it can look at the camera, and see things, and interact
with the world around you. So... (AI Pin beeps) Look and tell me what you see. (AI Pin beeps) So it'll scan the room,
use the Cloud again. That little noise was it
taking a little image, sending AI image to the Cloud, analyzing it, getting it back, then deciding what to tell me. - [AI Pin] You are sitting in front of a camera and a laptop. The camera is on a tripod
and pointed at you. The laptop is open, and
you are looking at it. There are three pictures of
dogs on the wall behind you. There is a window to
the left of the camera. There is a boom mic on
the table in front of you. There is a red carpet on the floor. - Great. The camera can also take pictures, or up to 15 second videos, which it auto uploads while charging. It can also remember things
you tell it to remember. And all these things will
show up in the Humane Center. So it's like this online web portal for all things connected to the pin. There's no app, it's just the website. So there, you can see a whole
history of who you've called, and texted, and what you've listened to, and what answers it gave to
your most recent requests, and all the things you
told it to remember. It is pretty well-rounded. I think probably its best
tech demo feature though, is the translate back and forth. You got a two finger
gesture, you can go... (AI Pin beeps) (Marques speaks in Spanish) (AI Pin beeps) - [AI Pin] Where's the library? - So it auto detects the language,
translates it to English, and the person who speaks
back can translate back, as long as you hold on the
pin and listen to them. Pretty cool. This is all voice stuff though. So if at any point you're in a loud area, or a very private area, and you don't wanna interact
out loud with your voice, that's where this projector comes in. So it seems crazy, but
you activate it like that, and then you just hold your
finger out, your whole palm, and it becomes a projector screen for the laser projector
built into the pin. So it takes a little practice, but eventually you get used
to holding your hand up in just the right spot, and then the UI gets
projected in this green 720p mini screen on your hand. So you basically use your hand, try to be as flat as possible, and then to interact with it, there are some movement gestures. So there's a time of flight sensor that keeps track of movement, and you move your hand around kind of like rolling a marble around in
your hand to select something, then pinch to select. You can then make a fist to go back, and then you literally push forward to move deeper into a menu. So this is like a 3D UI you have to learn. This is obviously very
brand new for people, but I think to be fair,
it is pretty intuitive. I think if you get a
quick 60 second lesson, you kind of already have
learned all the things you need. When you first connect
the booster to the pin, you can unlock it, and
unlocking it with my pin, is like this... Move your hand through space
to select the numbers thing. It's literally like moving back and forth through a Rolodex of real numbers. So it's one of those like
borderline magic things where the first time you see it, you kind of just get it, and it clicks. Even if it is a little fidgety, and a little bit inaccurate
and kind of slow. But that gets us into the review. (mellow instrumental music) So, unfortunately... This thing is bad at
almost everything it does, basically all the time. Where do I even start? So I guess first of all, okay, it's supposed to just
answer questions, right? It can kinda do that sometimes,
but one, it's often slow, because most of these requests go to the Cloud and come back, and there's just a long wait. And two, it's often wrong, because AI still can hallucinate, and there are still issues with it just not understanding correctly, or just saying the wrong thing. And that's not even
mentioning server timeouts, if you have a poor internet connection, which happens to me all
the time in this studio. So when they do most of the demos, like on their websites
and in their videos, they'll ask a question,
and then they'll let go, and keep talking to fill the silence, so it's not awkward as
you wait for an answer, and realize how long it is. But even on this fast studio wifi here... (AI Pin beeps) Who designed the Washington Monument? (AI Pin beeps) - [AI] Finding designer. The Washington Monument was
designed by Robert Mills, a prominent 19th century
American architect from South Carolina. The construction was
eventually completed by- - Okay. So you can just hold your hand up to put your answer on your hand, and interrupt that it's talking so much. But even that was like a
pretty good performance for the AI Pin. In ideal, fast wifi conditions. But there are many, many times when I feel like it's way slower, and it seems like it goes to the internet for almost everything. I mean there's a few queries I guess might be local, like... (AI Pin beeps) What time is it? (AI Pin beeps) - [AI Pin] 11:42 AM. - Like that's pretty fast. If I ask the battery life, it can tell me that pretty fast. But it feels like
basically everything else is just shoveling it off to the Cloud, not computing on the device,
and it takes a while. But it's also just wrong all the time. Like, I remember asking it
days before the solar eclipse when the next eclipse
was, and it said 2044. I asked it, "What's some
good Asian food in the area?" And over and over again it thought I said, "What's the best ash?" For some reason? When is the next Nets game? (AI Pin beeps) - [AI Pin] Finding next Nets game. The next Brooklyn Nets game
is on Sunday, April 14th, but no specific opponent
or location is provided. - I just Googled it. It says it's the 76ers,
so that's kind of weird. (AI Pin beeps) What's the traffic to the
Empire State Building from here? (AI Pin beeps) - [AI Pin] Finding direction. Use the voice command feature of AI Pin to ask for traffic information to the Empire State Building, and it will provide you
with the details you need. - I did? This stuff happens all the time. But then, speaking of battery life... Really bad. (Marques laughs) And inconsistent, which is annoying. So, it's already kind of bad enough that you have another device, that you also have to
charge every single day. But with this, it's
actually more than that. You have to constantly
babysit the battery, and swap out boosters
and charge this thing, and keep it charged
multiple times per day. So like I said before, you get two of these
things that come with it, and I've had a pin nuke through
the entire booster battery in two hours, while not
really doing much of anything. I've also had it last like four hours while doing a whole bunch of, you know, photos and videos and
requests and laser stuff. And it's also just like constantly warm the whole time. Just all the time. Which is a little bit concerning. I'll also say, multiple
times in various situations, I've had it just overheat
for seemingly no reason, and tell me to wait a
while for it to cool down. I think the heat problem is also amplified because of the gap
created by whatever fabric is between the booster and the product, that it is actively, inductively charging. You know, it is a lot of
very impressive engineering, but wireless charging is
notoriously inefficient, and loses energy via heat, and that's what's happening
in here all the time. So just the fact that it's warm, just this warm puck on my chest all day, was just enough to never quite
forget that I'm wearing it. Well, that and the weight. Look, it's well-made, like I said, it's really impressive hardware, but it's just a little... I mean, you see that little sag? It's just a little too heavy, in the same way that Vision
Pro is just a bit too heavy. When you're wearing the thing, you just wanna make it
as light as possible. It's why a lot of this
stuff is made of plastic. So when you decide to go
aluminum instead, yeah, it's just a little too heavy. I feel like Humane in
a lot of their videos, they've got all these thick
fabrics, and like heavy jackets, so it doesn't really pull
down and sag nearly as much. But if you wear some lighter
weight materials like I do, especially when it gets warm outside, this is really gonna start to be noticed. And yes, there are some
optional accessories that are lighter weight, but you never quite forget about it. This pin cannot set a timer. This pin cannot set an alarm. This notification light they
put up at the corner here, it's there and it works, but it is basically out of my
peripheral, my field of use, so I almost never see it. And you know, they also chose
this corner for the light, which means it's designed to be worn on this half of the body, which is fine, and you
get used to it there, but that's also exactly
where most seat belts go, in the US anyway. So, not their fault, just another annoying
thing about using it. The photos look pretty bad, and the videos look even worse. They're square-ish in
aspect ratio, very noisy, and they max out at 15 seconds. The hub that everything
syncs with, for me, just randomly stops working, and I have to refresh it
to get it to work again. The projector... As impressive as a technical
achievement as it is, it's just not very readable. It's not particularly bright outdoors, and it gets dimmer the
further from your hand it is because of physics. And unless I knew what
those words were saying, I really can't read very much. And... (Marques chuckles) There are no apps. There just are no apps. So when you first sign up
with your Humane account, you get to sync with four accounts. There are your Apple,
Google, Microsoft, and Tidal. So the first three are
basically for your contacts, and then the last one, Tidal
is the exclusive music partner. So there is no Uber access, there is no Spotify access,
there's no WhatsApp, there's no calendar, no
Gmail, none of that stuff. It's just... I can't book a flight, I
can't buy something on Amazon. It just will not do any of that stuff that I just do on my phone. (mellow instrumental music) So I know I've said like
a bunch of the downsides and the problems this device has, but I really genuinely
think the biggest problem this pin is going to have, is that smartphones are kind of OP. The number one thing I've reminded myself from the week of using this pin, trying to get it to do stuff, is that smartphones are not
going anywhere anytime soon. And I think a lot of the comments online have already picked up on this, even without testing and
using the pin, which is, okay, there seems like a lot of overlap between what this is and
what a smartphone can do. But everything that this pin does, a modern smartphone
does better and faster, and easier and in higher quality, and just better in every way. Like your smartphone obviously takes better pictures and videos, and you can frame things more easily. Of course, a phone can call
and text people more easily. You can use it in more
places, loud places, private places, use it
with literally any outfit. Also, a phone, like you
can quickly Google things, it's faster to message people back. And of course, it can email people, and use all kinds of app experiences. Do you know what happens
when you try to just send someone a picture from the AI Pin? You already know how
to do it on your phone. With the AI Pin, okay,
you take the picture, then you either try this with your voice, or you pull up the picture, which is just a green
720p jpeg on your hand. I guess that's a good
enough preview, sure. You go to send it, you pick your contact, or type in the whole phone
number with the gestures. Eventually, you go to send, and it has its own internet connection, and it sends a link to view the picture in the Humane web portal. Like the difference in how easy, how frictionless that is here versus here, it's not even close. And there are honestly many times where I'd be trusting this pin, like I'm reviewing it,
I'm living that life, I'm using it, and I'd ask it something, and I would wait so long, and my phone would just
be sitting right there, where I could just pick it
up and Google the answer in the time it takes me to get hopefully the right answer on the pin. It's just... Phones are OP. (AI Pin beeps) Look and tell me what this is. (AI Pin beeps) Or I'll just do this, I guess. Ah... It's a Cybertruck. - [AI Pin] The photo is of a Cybertruck. An electric pickup
truck produced by Tesla. - Yup. Also, I gotta say, when
I say phones are OP, like screens in your hand. So sick. Just for the last like 10% of any UI, like you can get almost all the way there with just your voice interaction. But let's say you call an Uber, and you say, "Take me to
the studio from an Uber." Even if it could do that, which it can't, but let's say it could. And as you're waiting, you're like, "I'm gonna just go grab a snack from this Starbucks on the corner." How do you adjust your
pickup location with this? Ugh. Just that friction of, I could just do it in
two seconds on my phone. Or buying something online is another one. I've seen a lot of demos
where someone's like, "Plan me a trip to Europe. Plan me an expedition." I don't even wanna buy
detergent online on this, because I need to check all
the ratings and the titles, and make sure I'm ordering the right one. I do not trust that with just my voice. But I think most critically,
for the AI assistant part... I actually love the idea
of a virtual assistant that you can talk to like a human. Like this is something
we've been chasing for years with Google Assistant, and Siri and Alexa. And now with this new
form factor of, you know, a little AI in a box that
can be with you everywhere, maybe that can deliver even
better on that specific promise, But the thing about a good assistant is it needs to know everything about you. That's even true with a human assistant. Like, it needs to know your schedule, it needs to know where you go every day, it needs to know who you talk to, who your preferences are
personally and for products. Like it needs to know
everything about you. And your smartphone already
knows a lot of things about you. But this is a standalone device that doesn't talk to your phone, and so it doesn't know any
of the things about you that your phone knows. So just from that, it's already at such
a massive disadvantage for the smartphone for being helpful. I mean, you can do what I did. Fully immerse yourself
for several days straight, and tell it to remember everything, and call people, text people from it, but it will always have that gap. And that's not even
mentioning this, like I said, it has its own phone number, and so if you text people
and call people from this, yeah, it can summarize all of
your messages from the day, and all that stuff from
these conversations, but it doesn't see any
of these conversations. So if you're texting here, this is not the same thread. That gap is always gonna be there. So I guess that begs the question, why didn't they just make
this connect to your phone? Everyone has a phone. That's the question that I think a lot of people are wondering. And I think... This is my theory, but I
think Humane wants this thing to eventually be a very powerful
standalone device someday. And in order to get it to that future, they can't set the precedent now of connecting it to your
phone, 'cause then that means they have to remove that
feature in the future, and they don't wanna do that. So this device as it exists today is hamstrung by its ideal
future version of itself. It's like Vision Pro. Like I talked about it
in the Vision Pro review. It doesn't actually pair
to your iPhone in any way. It's its own standalone computer. And of course, Apple sees down the road, that could just be like a
little pair of smart glasses. You don't need an iPhone to use that. But now, today, this thing is a victim of its future ambition. (mellow instrumental music) It was really hard to come up
with a title for this video, but I will say, at one point, my working title for this was, "This product is either
the dumbest thing ever, or I'm an idiot." Because yes, it's really,
really, really, really bad now. But every once in a
while, and I mean a while, I would use it, and it would do exactly what
it's supposed to do quickly, and I'd get it. And I'd really feel like that's
how it's supposed to feel, and I'd do another request, and it would remind me of reality. But here's an example, right? I've said a thousand times, like, my best ideas, golden rule, they always show up when
I can't write them down. Like when I'm about to fall asleep, or I'm in the shower, or driving, right? So I'm using the pin, I'm driving to the studio
and I have an idea. I'm not trying to write
it down on my phone while driving or pull over, but I had the pin, so
I'm driving and I just... (AI Pin beeps) "Remind me of this cool ABC outro idea for the Humane review." (AI Pin beeps) And I just kept driving. And it wrote it down, and it saved it. - [AI Pin] Saving memory. - And when I go check the Humane- - [AI Pin] The outro idea
for the Humane review has been saved. - The voice is kind of annoying. But now that's up in the Humane AI Center, so when I arrive at the studio, that thing that I told it to remember, is sitting there waiting for me. That was nice. Or the other thing, the
unique first person videos. I could put it in the center
of my chest, and take videos. I would never want to
distract myself while driving taking a video, but you know, even though the quality's not great, that's the most frictionless
version of that, along with smart glasses. That's great. And I think number one,
on top of all of this, is if you ask me like, "Who should buy this device right now?" I mean, nobody should buy
this device right now. But if there's one person
who would most consider it, it's the person that wants to spend as little time as possible
with a screen in their hands. Like as little time as
possible on their phone. And that's me sometimes. I don't wanna doom scroll the second I pull my
phone out of my pocket. For that person, if they want that at the
expense of everything else, this device represents just a glimmer of hope for that future. Now the problem, of course,
is with this device, there's just so much more
friction and fumbling and annoyance that comes with it, that you don't wanna do it, even though you would accomplish the goal of less screen time and
living in the moment. But yeah, that's the issue with it. I literally had a moment, like we did a shoot in Ohio the other day, which was like a travel day. And I woke up in the
morning and I thought like, "I don't want to deal
with this pin today." Like I have driving, so the
seat belt's gonna be annoying, and then we're gonna go to the airport, and then probably gotta take it off through the metal detector
and then put it on again, which means I have to log
in with the pin again and... Just all this, and I just was like, "I don't wanna have to
charge this seven times. Like , I don't wanna wear it today." So I skipped it. And you should probably
skip this product too. And never buy a product based on the future
promise of updates to it. Obviously, this is a product
that has a long way to go, and there's a team behind it. And look, I gotta say,
as a brand new product, and a team trying to make something new... That, I respect. I respect the attempt. Because we don't get a
lot of totally new stuff. But yeah, this has a long way to go. They do have a roadmap, actually. I'll say. They've shared it. There's some decent stuff on there, including number sharing, but that also has no date
and no other information. So I'll just say, good luck. Godspeed. Thanks for watching. Catch you in the next one. Peace. (calming steel drum music fades)