[Tadashi Tokieda] Here's an ancient, very traditional Japanese toy called kendama "Ken" means sword and "Dama" means ball and it's a sword and a ball. The French name is bilboquet There is the spelling, bilboquet We have some english versions of this toy but not so sophisticated as this one So, as you can see, a ball is hanging from a string attached to this sword, as we say. You see, there's a cup here and the challenge is to just tug the ball up and put it in the cup Now that's of course is very, very difficult to do. So you shouldn't do this in public... Because the chances of success are very small [Generic News Channel Song] [Explosion] [Crowd Cheering] [Tadashi Tokieda] Even if you succeed with the large cup you shouldn't try the smaller cup because that's much, much harder to do of course. Now, if you're a little mad you say "Ah! I notice that there is" some space at the end of this stick. Presumably that's not designed for play of this kind But you know, if you're ambitious, you might try and miraculously succeed. There is a place where you can rest you know? So surely I will not be able to do this but once in ten years or so I may succeed. But what is demonstrably impossible is you see there's a hole at the bottom of the ball Is to tug this up and then make it land on the stick And it's impossible because you see, when i tug it up the ball starts going in all sorts of orientations and what are the chances that when it lands, the hole is pointing straight down? It's very, very unlikely and very, very improbable. But there's a trick for this: There's a grand principle in Physics that permeates all parts of the Universe called The Conservation of Angular Momentum That means that any body spinning Once it gets spinning has a tendency to keep spinning exactly the same way Unless disturbed by external influences Not only at the same spin, at the same angular speed but also around the same axis. So we can begin by spinning the thing And you see that when I tug it up you saw that it keeps straight up Because this axis of spin is vertical and by the conservation of angular momentum once it gets spinning it always keeps the same axis. So, if I spin this and try, what seems impossible becomes possible. [Crowd Cheering] [Cheering Intensifies] [Tadashi Tokieda] You should contrast this with when I don't spin and how much harder and difficult it becomes I can do it anyway. I can reverse the roles of the sword and the ball I can hold the ball and then swing it and try to make the sword come into the ball. This never works. Hang on. Come on. Oh!