- So you've come looking for DDR5? I'll cut you a deal. Only
double retail pricing. It's a steal, for me, that is. (man laughing) - Scalpers have taken the
fledgling DDR5 market hostage. Look around you. Everything on Neweeg is
out of stock right now. And low end 16 gig modules
of DDR5 are being sold for as much as 32 gigs of
Trident Z is supposed to be. Meanwhile on eBay, you're looking at anywhere
from 700 to $1,000 for a 32 gig kit of the good stuff. We're in a bad place right
now, but there's a light, a light of justice because
the fact that DDR5 is newer, shinier doesn't mean
that you need to buy it. Unlike our sponsor,
GlassWire lets you see past and present network activity,
detect malware on your PC or Android device, and
block its connections to prevent things from getting worse. Use offer code Linus to get
25% off at the link down below. (upbeat music) I know, I know. We did a whole video about
why DDR5 is super cool, and it really is, but it's got a lot working
against it right now too. You've got first gen RAM chips interfacing with first gen memory controllers over imperfectly optimized
first gen trace layouts. And it's perfectly natural to
expect all this first genery to take a while to reach
its full potential. I mean think about how the
first PlayStation 2 games ended up looking worse than
the last PlayStation 1 games because developers had
no idea yet how to unlock the full potential of the Emotion Engine. And even in the computer memory space, this is nothing new. DDR2, DDR3, DDR4. If you look at contemporaneous reviews, you'll find a lot of reports saying that there is no practical
benefit to the upgrade and that it is certainly not
worth the early adopter tax. Like look at this dork back in 2014, the synthetic benchmark graphs show DDR4 absolutely wiping the floor
with DDR3 in raw bandwidth. But when we look at the numbers
in real-world applications, even this relatively low spec kit of DDR3, beats out the fastest DDR4
that was available at the time. Of course, as we all know, DDR4, like its predecessors, ended
up getting the last laugh with mid-generation refinements that led to much higher performance at ultimately lower costs. I mean, the hot item back
when that video was shot was, 3000 mega transfers per second CL16. Nowadays, we would call
that budget at best, cheapo at worst. And the same thing will
eventually happen with DDR5, just not today. Unlike our new water bottles, those are already proven superior and you can get 'em right now, no scalping required, lttstore.com. To illustrate our point,
we ran a bevy of benchmarks using our Core I9 12900K
paired with an RTX 3090. This is admittedly a
very high spec machine that not everyone will be using, but it allows both of
our memory technologies to put their best foot forward by removing system bottlenecks elsewhere. For DDR5, we've included both, the highest currently available JNX speed and a 5,200 mega transfer per second kit, which was the fastest that our
system could handle reliably. And then we've included
a handful of common DDR4 configurations. Kicking things off, our
high end DDR5 pulls off a respectable 5% lead over our
fastest DDR4 kit in F1 2021. Though it should be noted
that we're having issues running more than two sticks of the stuff at a time right now. And the other problem is
that our lower end DDR5 kit drops off significantly
from its bigger brother. In fact, while the average
FPS drop looks fine, it trails even our top
spec DDR4 by as much as 10% in minimum frame times. And that could easily
manifest as little hitches or stutters in your gameplay. Forza is a little bit kinder to our DDR5, but the improvement
offered by the high end kit is negligible and the
benefit over DDR4 is under 5% in both cases. Flight Simulator CPU
intensive nature seems like it should be a good fit for DDR5, but no. Both kits are actually
consistently between one and 4% slower than our fast DDR4 kit. That's surprising, but
not as surprising as CS:GO another game that CPU heavy. While the high-end kit
stays roughly equivalent with a few frames gained or
lost, depending on the metric, our lower end kit is on
par or worse than DDR4, running 400 mega trumps
frames per second lower. Civ VI for its part was more
or less the same regardless with less than half a
second separating our DDR5 from our fastest DDR4. Taken together then the
gaming tests average out to about a 2% win for the high-end kit and a 2% loss for the low-end
kit compared to high end DDR4, which, and I cannot emphasize
this enough costs less than half as much at retail. And that is pre scalper markup. Perhaps productivity will produce DDR5s proper performance potential. Cinebench sure doesn't think so. It's a total wash with a
measly 1% difference or less between our fastest DDR4 and DDR5 kits. Compiling Firefox though,
gives DDR5 its first major win even the lower end kit
picking up a 6% faster time compared to our best DDR4 and the higher end kit being
nearly a minute faster. Code compilation does hit system
memory pretty hard though. So this isn't a huge surprise, it's just nice to see
a W for it somewhere. Blender, meanwhile, doesn't seem to give two hoots
what kind of memory you have as long as it's lots and
PugetBench is an interesting case because every Adobe app tested here, gets a performance uplift, but none of them are
as stark as Photoshop. Even our low end DDR5 kit is 14% faster than our high end DDR4 kit
and that's saying a lot. Though, this again makes sense because of Photoshop's
memory intensive layer and effects operations, where
the GPU isn't really doing a lot of the work. Finally, we've got SPECworkstation where some ridiculously
memory intensive tests come into play giving us substantial 20 and even 30% performance uplifts
in the product development, life sciences and energy suites. So that stuff like CAD, medical imaging and geological surveys
where there's a lot of data being thrown around. Financial services in
general operations meanwhile, not so hot, which we'd expect
considering the lighter nature of that work and our previous results. Overall then productivity
nets us a rather significant, but kind of inconsistent five
to 7% bump in performance, DDR5 compared to the fastest DDR4. So this is one area where
depending on what you do, DDR5 might be worth the investment. Although I gotta say, that better be some pretty important work you're doing. To be clear, none of
what we're saying is that DDR5 has no advantages for average gamers. It's more power efficient for one. And the nature of it's more numerous, but smaller burst buffers
means that architectures that rely on responsive memory like Ryzen, may find more benefit even
at these earlier speeds, despite the looser
timings compared to DDR4. But since a DDR5 Ryzen
platform doesn't exist yet, and by the time it does both
motherboard manufacturers and memory manufacturers
might have a better idea of how to optimize their implementations, I think it's safe to say
that you shouldn't be paying a premium for it today. Leading us to the big question
we need to answer here, why are your scalpers scalping it then? Well, I think there's a
big emotional component. People like having the
latest and greatest thing. And I think that we in
the media need to accept at least part of the blame for that. But there's another angle to it and that's motherboard manufacturers. All of the highest end, shiniest, most appealing motherboards are DDR5 only. And now that there's a shortage of it, it's not just as simple for them as, plunking down some DDR4 slots
in place of the DDR5 ones to improve consumer options. Trace layouts and lengths, topology and of course the fact that
the power management IC is on each DDR5 module rather
than built into the board means that there's a non-trivial
amount of work involved with retooling a board for DDR4. The good news for you today is that, most of the highest end
motherboards don't really do a lot to justify the extra spend at least if you're not
overclocking with liquid nitrogen. As we've seen in our previous
motherboard investigation, down to earth gaming motherboards like, Asus Rg Strix or MSIs Tomahawk series are gonna give you
performance and features very close to the bleeding edge. And if you really must have high-end, Gigabyte actually has gone to
the effort of remaking nearly their entire lineup in DDR4 flavors, leaving only the cream
of the crop out of reach. We're gonna have some
links to these down below if you're looking to build a 12th gen rig. For today, though, the solution is to hoist
a great big middle finger to scalpers by buying DDR4
while it's still relevant. Hopefully by the time you
don't want it anymore, the scalpers will have moved
on to greener pastures. Maybe some game console
they can buy or something. Actually, please don't do that. Game console are one of the
only ways people can get a reasonably priced gaming rig right now. Thanks Brilliant for
sponsoring today's video. Brilliant teaches you by
solving puzzles and problems on their website and app. They've got over 60
interactive courses in math, science and computer science, and Brilliant is just a great
website to help you achieve your goals in STEM. Their courses are designed
to puzzle and surprise you. And one that probably all of you will like is, mathematical fundamentals. Is it possible to drag the number of tiles so that every row and column adds up to the target sum beside it? Find out by giving it a try today, just go to brilliant.org/linustechtips
to find out. The first 200 of you to click on the link, will get 20% off today. Thanks for watching guys, go check out our previous
video on DDR5 for more info on the inner workings and
just how it differs from DDR4. I promise it is super interesting, even if you can't or
shouldn't buy it right now.