One of China's most valuable 
companies makes liquor. Kweichow Moutai (貴州茅台酒股份有限公司 or 貴州茅台) is a   state-owned liquor company that 
produces Moutai Baijiu (茅台 白酒). As of this writing, Kweichow 
is China's second most valuable   publicly traded company - with a 
market cap of over $300 billion. This has always been a bit strange to me. I don't 
drink much but I am curious why this company   should be worth as much as PetroChina, Tencent 
or Alibaba. So in this video, Kweichow Moutai. ## Beginnings Let us first break down the strange name. Kweichow Moutai is named after a 
regional flavor of Chinese alcohol. The name's first term refers 
to the region. Kweichow is   an old Romanization of the Chinese name. Today if we are to use Pinyin 
romanization, we get Guizhou (貴州). Guizhou is a landlocked province in China's 
southwest, home to about 38.5 million people.   It is one of China's less developed areas and 
leans heavily on energy generation and mining. Moutai is the name of a town 
within the Guizhou province. Again, Moutai is an older 
Romanization. Using modern Pinyin,   we would call it Maotai. But for this 
video, I will stick to the original name. So basically, the name is like as if there was 
a company just called Tennessee Whisky. Moutai   Baijiu is not the only Baijiu available on 
the market, but it is the most prominent. ## A Legend People in the Moutai region have 
been making liquor for a long time. During the Western Han Dynasty in 135 BC, 
records find that people in that region   produced something called "wolf berry 
sauce aroma liquor" or "Goujiang" (枸酱). Sima Qian in his "Records of the Grand 
Historian" records that Tang Meng,   the county magistrate of the Han county 
of Fanyang traveled to the Nanyue Kingdom. The Nanyue Kingdom is an ancient kingdom 
covering areas of Guangdong, Guangxi, and Hainan. The Nanyue King treated Tang to Goujiang, 
which he thoroughly enjoyed. When Tang   returned to the Han capital of what is 
now Xi'an, he asked where it came from. Goujiang eventually reached 
the lips of the Emperor Wu,   who called it "delicious and sweet". The Emperor 
designated Goujiang as a "tribute item" - meaning   that it was of sufficiently high quality to 
be presented to the Emperor and his court. In other words, he put it on his Amazon wishlist 
- right alongside his neighbors' territories. ## A Qing Origin Now that I have told you the story, I 
can add that it is a bit of a legend. The Goujiang (枸酱) that so entranced Emperor 
Wu seems more like a fermented sauce than   a liquor. But histories claim that it is an 
ancestor of the Moutai liquor we drink today. Maybe, but I am a little skeptical since as far 
as I know, Moutai isn't made with wolfberries. But we do know that Guizhou people have 
been making good liquor for a while. In   the year 1105 during the Song Dynasty, a poet 
exiled to what is now the border of Guizhou   province drank and praised a regional liquor 
which they called "Zhangke liquor" (牂柯酒). So Guizhou people can make good liquor. But again, 
Zhangke liquor isn't Moutai. Moutai the village   was founded in the early 1700s as a small fishing 
village on the bank of the Chishui River (赤水河). By the late 1700s, there were already a dozen 
distilleries making regional Moutai liquor. An   excavated stone plaque from 1784 proclaims 
"Moutai Jise Shengjiu" ("茅台偈盛酒’号") which   I think means "Moutai, specially made liquor". Records during the reign of the Jiaqing Emperor 
- who reigned from 1796 to 1820 - praised the   Moutai liquor as the best in Guizhou. Its 
reputation from there on started to build. ## Moutai Baijiu can be made from any sort 
of cereal - wheat, millet, etc. Moutai Baijiu is brewed from fermented sorghum,   which is a type of cereal originating from 
Sudan. The grain and water used must come   from Moutai village, since the taste is 
tied to the village‘s unique geography. Westerners have remarked that it is definitely an 
acquired taste. Moutai's taste is described as a   very rough vodka and somewhat reminiscent 
of a Chinese sweet sauce or soy sauce. A 2009 article from the 
Atlantic describes the taste as: > Imagine rotten cabbage, ethyl alcohol,   and paint thinner, blended and 
strained. It smells like ammonia Some of these negative attitudes might be 
the result of drinking cheaper versions   of the liquor. It can regularly 
cost anywhere from $100 to $300   or more per bottle. The more premium 
stuff is said to be much more smooth. ## Three Distilleries
Until the second half of the 19th century, there were about 10-20 small 
distilleries producing Moutai. However in the 1850s, rebel armies fighting 
the Taiping Civil War and other local   rebellions destroyed those distilleries 
and there was no production for a decade. Then in the 1860s, a scholar-official in 
charge of salt affairs named Hua Lianhui   set up a small place called 
the Chengyi Distillery (成義酒廠). Hua apparently did it because his grandmother told 
him she tried the drink once while passing through   the area. And he saw an opportunity 
to sell it for formal ceremonies. He bought the land under a 
closed and razed distillery,   hired one of its old employees, 
and started brewing it. About a decade later, a second distillery was   set up in the area - Rong He (榮和燒房) - and 
they entered into a rivalry with Chengyi. And then came a third - Hengchang 
(衡昌酒廠) - apparently the lagging   edge producer of the trio. They 
struggled for a while before a   businessman took over and expanded 
its capacity and marketing heft. Over the years in Moutai, these three 
large distilleries consolidated their   position and became the largest 
producers of the liquor in the city. ## Prize Winning?
Notably, Moutai liquor won an award in the West. In February 20th, 1915, the United 
States held the Panama-Pacific   International Exposition in San Francisco to 
celebrate the opening of the Panama Canal. The organizers formally invited businessmen 
and officials from the Republic of China to   attend. The ROC was then ruled 
by Yuan Shikai. Who would later   that year, he would attempt to restore the 
hereditary monarchy - a deeply damaging move. The ROC Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce 
sought to gather local products from each of   the provinces to display at this exhibition. 
Apparently over 100,000 products participated. It is said that they submitted Moutai liquor from   two of the distilleries in the village - 
Chengyi and Ronghe. The liquor then won   an award - a silver medal - which 
brought a great deal of prestige. It then caused a kerfuffle over which of 
the two distilleries should receive and   hold the silver medal. So the local county 
chamber of commerce held it and printed   two certificates for the two of them to 
hold. Not sure where the medal is now. ## CPC The Communist Party of China has 
long had an association with Moutai. The village was occupied by the Red Army in 1935. 
There, Moutai liquor was said to have helped raise   the soldiers' sprits, allowing them to eventually 
defeat the KMT at the Battle of Chishui River. The battle was a turning point 
during the Long March. I keep   hearing anecdotal stories of Red 
Army soldiers using it to wipe   their feet and clean their wounds - but 
it feels too valuable to use for that. Chairman Mao personally loved the liquor 
a whole lot. He and his comrades drank   Moutai at the first banquet after the 
establishment of the People's Republic. And he occasionally ordered cases as 
gifts for his best dudes like Kim Il-sung. Because of this heritage, Moutai 
is the Party's preferred drink   of diplomacy. Henry Kissinger famously told 
Deng Xiaoping during a state visit in 1974: > "I think if we drink enough 
mao tai we can solve anything". And it is a tradition that holds 
to this day. Presidents Xi Jinping   and Obama drank it in 2013 during 
Xi's trip to Southern California. And when Xi met with Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou 
in 2015, they apparently drank Moutai there too. They also drank Taiwan's version 
of Baijiu - Kinmen Kaoliang Liquor.   Which I have tried before 
and find to be quite nice. ## State-Owned In 1951, the Guizhou government "acquired" 
the Chengyi distillery from its owner. The other two distilleries Rong He and Hengchang 
were shortly acquired as well thereafter,   and then merged into a single company - the 
state-owned entity Kweichow Moutai Company. The province continues to 
hold a 60.82% share today.   The state strongly supported the Moutai 
business throughout various difficulties,   scaling up Moutai production 
with an eye towards export sales. In 1958, Mao Zedong went on a walk 
with the Kweichow factory manager   and personally asked him to take 
a Great Leap Forward and increase   production of Moutai to 10,000 tons. 
That year, they had only done 623. So the factory marshaled the forces 
that they could - raising production   to 820 tons in 1959 and then 
912 tons in 1960. However,   in order to do this they had to 
seize grain from those who needed it. Records find that 20% of the county's rural 
population - 122,000 - perished from starvation   during this period of shortage. Another 1,300 
died during the forced grain requisitions. Then came the Cultural Revolution, and 
the company struggled to maintain its   quality and output amidst commodity 
shortages and political turmoil. In 1978, new management took over and 
helped grow the factory's output once   more. Moutai liquor's quality returned 
and the company started to hit very   fast levels of growth during China's 
economic growth periods in the 1990s. ## Supply and Demand
It is an interesting company. A vast majority of its sales come from within   China - some 90% - and even there it is 
not something for ordinary consumers. As I mentioned above, it is a very strong 
and expensive alcohol. So it is more often   for toasts in special events, or gifts. You don’t 
crack it open on your sofa at the end of the day. On the demand side, we have the Party's 
strong preference for Moutai. It is estimated   that - prior to President Xi's term - over 
half of the sales of all premium Chinese liquor   brands were to the government and military. 
Another 30-35% of sales were to businesses. For this reason, the company's fortunes 
are closely tied to the Party's whims.   When President Xi ran his anticorruption 
campaign shortly into his first term,   expensive liquors like Moutai's suffered heavily. On the supply side, Moutai is limited by 
how much production they can actually get   out of their factories in Moutai. The 
production process is very artisanal,   sometimes requiring years of aging in big urns. It is also very manual - the ribbon on 
each bottle is still tied on by hand. So this high demand but limited supply situation 
means that in order to find sales growth,   they need find some way to make more 
money from the supply they already have. That might mean raising prices - one 
18% price increase in late 2017 caused   the stock to jump 8%, rallying to a 
new high. Though how much they can   do this is limited for government 
and public reputational reasons. Or they can release more premium 
lines, including exclusive,   limited edition labels made for 
specific events or locations. But this also opens the door to 
corruption inside the company. In 2021,   the company's former chairman was 
jailed for reselling premium Moutai   for years - making $30 million USD 
in illegal profits while doing so. ## Giant In 2017, Kweichow passed Diageo to 
become the world's biggest liquor maker. For a $300 billion company, they are not 
as big as I thought they might be. In 2022,   they generated 124 billion RMB in sales - $18.6 
billion USD - and about half of that was profit. Compare that to another big luxury brand 
- Kering, which owns Gucci. In 2022,   they generated about $23 billion USD 
in sales - albeit with less profit,   $4 billion. Their market cap 
is just about $58 billion. In February 2021, Kweichow 
Moutai stock hit a new high,   over $450 billion - higher than 
giants like Disney or Nike. Back then as is now, the company's 
market cap was bigger than China's   four big banks. And those are some of the 
world’s most profitable companies, on paper. In 2022, ICBC alone generated $52 
billion in net profit. On paper. And   Agricultural Bank of China did $35.9 
billion in 2022 net profit. On paper. I asked Doug of FabricatedKnowledge - who studies 
far more than just semiconductor stocks - about   why this company's valuation took this huge step 
up in the 2016 era. He mentioned two things. First, the company has always 
been undervalued. It prints money   and that ability is only limited by the 
supply of Moutai that they have at hand. Second, there was a big distribution 
network consolidation story driving   the stock in 2017. Kweichow sells its Moutai 
through a complicated network of distributors,   who add substantial markups to the price. In 2018, a new General Manager named 
Li Baofang entered the company and   he sought to cut the number of total distributors,   and maybe even sell directly to consumers 
with the creation of a sales office. I want to add a few more things too. 
There is a large secondary market for   historic vintages and special collector 
editions of Moutai worth many thousands   of dollars. Kweichow has been trying 
to get a larger piece of that market. And finally, there was an overseas expansion 
story. Moutai is virtually unknown outside   of Mainland China. The company has 
tried some overseas advertising in   places like New York and Paris - kind 
of like Japanese whisky in the past. In late 2017, the company held a conference 
with the goal of overseas expansion with   the theme - "Making the World Fall in Love with 
Moutai". Part of this distributor consolidation   story had to do with this overseas push. It 
hasn't played out yet, but it still might. ## Conclusion I think I have spent enough time on a 
liquor that I don't personally drink. But Kweichow Moutai is indeed 
a very interesting and unique   company. They produce a beverage that is 
a legitimate and unique cultural treasure. And its history and success are very closely tied   to the history and practices of 
the Communist Party of China.