This 86-inch LG Ultra Stretch is so wide that it makes so-called ultra-wide monitors look downright square by comparison. With just 600 vertical pixels, no support for HDR, and a pedestrian 60 Hertz refresh rate, it's meant more for digital signage than for gaming. But when we saw this on Facebook Marketplace, we knew we had to try it anyway. Widescreen gaming was particularly challenging in the early days, but... Even now, some games struggle beyond the standard widescreen aspect
ratio of 16:9. So, you must be asking yourself, how are they gonna handle
something that is 3.6 times wider? Look at that high fidelity graphics there. Wow. As you just saw, in some cases, disastrously, but in other cases,
surprisingly well. And a shocking number of games, even ones that are older than the
last 5, 10... ...or even 20 years, were able to handle this aspect ratio with a
relatively clear, unstretched picture. Like this relatively clear and unstretched segue to our sponsor. War Thunder. Experience pure vehicle combat immersion thanks to
over 2,000 true-to-life war machines to control and wreak havoc with. Click the link below to score some bonus items too. First up, I just want to say you guys outdid yourselves with the
setup here. We wanted to illustrate just how wide this thing was and Tanner not
only grabbed... the widest desk pad available at LTTStore.com, but also built a
keyboard. Oh no, I didn't build this. This was built by... I forget the guy's
name. The company name is Pikatea. He did a limited run of these and actually sent us his personal
prototype. At a pixel count of 3840 by 600, it's a little over one quarter of
a slice of a 4K display, making this a very unusual piece of digital signage. But what makes a display "signage" instead of a... "TV" or a "monitor"? Well, for one thing, the price. Instead of costing in the 30 to 40 cents per square inch range, like a basic monitor or a TV, this costs over $3.50 per square inch. That's about eight times more. So while the actual screen area of this is less than that of a commodity 55-inch TV, it costs 4,000 US dollars. Now... I could tell you that, oh, but that's because they use a special
panel technology or exotic screen coatings or something like that.
but unfortunately, that would be a lie. It uses the same fundamental IPS
panel tech that you've seen from LG Display for decades with, at most, some more
resilient driving electronics in order to handle a heavier duty cycle and,
probably more importantly, a warranty that covers commercial use. So why does it cost so much? Well, there's the warranty support, but also a handful of features
that provide meaningful value to businesses, but that consumers don't
necessarily need, so LG can hold them ransom if you don't pay the signage tax,
like the robust support for picture-by-picture, picture-in-picture, the support
for control over serial, control over network, various signage network
protocols, and support for both DisplayPort input and DisplayPort passthrough. That last feature pairs really well with Simplink, which is a
protocol for connecting you directly to the wallet of your audience on Twitch. I'm just kidding. Simplink is pretty much CEC and allows multiple
daisy-chained displays to be controlled with a single remote. Oh, and I would say the software is another area of improvement. Would you look at that? The same webOS you know and love, except
completely devoid of ads. It's got other cool stuff too, like input failover, the ability to export and import settings so that if you need to reset the device, you don't have to fool around and tediously adjust every setting in every sub menu. And it can even send you an email if something goes wrong. So if all that sounds great and you really want one of these, we're gonna have it linked below like we always do, but enough chit chat, let's see how it games. Oh my God, the ergonomics of this setup are not great. It's a lot of blank space. I went into the display modes 'cause I was noticing there was a lot of motion blur. Yeah. And I was thinking, oh, is there a gaming mode? No, but if I need transportation mode or a government mode or mall mode, those are conveniently available for me. I like transportation mode. Let's do it. Makes it look like you're on a bus. That didn't change much, it's a little warmer. I gotta say this pixel density, not great. Nope. It's not fantastic. You can really make out the individual pixels. 'Cause this would be equivalent to probably what? Like a 75, 86 inch TV if it wasn't just all long? No, no. No, no, because 86 inches corner to corner, 84 times whatever, 16 divided by nine times 84, a number. Pixels per inch is 46. So what's a 27 inch 1080p monitor? 81. 81. Ah, and that's already at the lower end of what I would want to use for desktop use. Okay, well that explains it. That's not even as distorted as I kind of thought it would be. He looks so lonely though. There's no doubt that when you're this close to it and you're focused on what would be the normal size of a monitor, it not only looks fine, but it actually is a little bit more immersive. However. When you withdraw a little bit and pay attention to just how distorted things get toward the edge of the frame. Look at my buddy here. I'm doing battle next to wide Putin. Did you see that scoping? Actually kind of immersive. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, get, get, get out of here. Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. Overall, I think the most remarkable thing about this game is how unremarkable the process was to get it working. I launched it and it immediately worked. Is it providing a great gaming experience? No, not really, but the problems that I'm having are mostly related to its mediocre specs. I mean, 60 Hertz, slow pixel response times, not to mention that this menu right now is about 600 by approximately 1,000 or 1,100 pixels. You can barely read the text. The widescreen element of it in games has held up pretty well, but that wasn't always the case. Even though widescreen displays became readily available in the latter half of the 1990s, due to their price, they failed to reach any kind of mainstream acceptance for, well, quite a few years, and game support over those years has been spotty at best. Fun trivia fact, by the way, legendary developer John Carmack is known for using the Intergraph Interview 28HD96, a $10,000, 100-pound 16:9 CRT that he purchased in 1996 to work on
Quake II, which ended up looking pretty decent on our 58:9 display. Is it because it was designed for a widescreen? Yes, but also no. It's definitely stretched, but... If it were only designed for 4:3 and 16:9, the image would be far
more stretched than it is. Instead, the game renders in a scalable manner, so it doesn't
really care what resolution you run at. And this approach probably seems like common sense today, but many
older games were designed with a fixed aspect ratio and, well, didn't do so well. "Do, do, do, do, do, do... do, do, do, do, do..." "Do, do, do..." Damn it. I believe I was expected to notice something. Yeah, you're also expected to get further into the game. Hey, hey, hey, hey, look, look, I... Oh, oh, no way. Whoa, what? This is a standard ROM. It's the emulator itself that's doing things differently. Okay, when the enemies start just appearing out of nowhere, six feet in front of you, and you're not expecting it as much. Okay, so it's just caching whatever the last thing we saw was statically then. It's not actually dynamically updating anything that's going on on the left, on the non-focused parts of the window. And you can actually get a good idea of when the sprites are actually being rendered and kind of how everything is laid out this way. And it actually numbers the total, what like background draws or like scenes, or now we've got the entire level stretched out behind us. And this NES emulator shows the issue of converting 2D tile-based graphics to widescreen. The picture is going to get rendered as a whole picture with the
sprite images being stored in the character memory and the level layout being stored on the program memory. In order to change the size of the view, the entire process needs
to be changed to accommodate for this new size. When you've only got 32 kilobytes
of program memory, 8 kilobytes of character memory, and just 2 kilobytes of RAM, keeping size down is absolutely critical. You can't Add in code to make it widescreen if that would mean removing a
level or a feature. So the easiest way to convert a 2D game to run in this super
wide aspect ratio is to just fake it. This is not in fact the original Super
Mario Brothers, but rather a complete remake that is being rendered in our web
browser and doesn't use emulation or even sprites. Instead, everything that
you're looking at is a scalable vector. So . I'm sorry, but you can't just throw any old ROM at this thing and
see the whole level. Now that doesn't mean that it's impossible to adapt real
old 2D games to widescreen. It's just... harder. Anyway, there's a ROM hack of Super Mario World for the Super
Nintendo made for 16:9 that successfully injects code for widescreen support,
but such a change would need to be done for every game individually or your only
option would be to stretch. Thankfully, during the shift from 2D to 3D, scalable rendering like
we saw in Quake 2 became the norm, even in places where the resolution was
expected to remain constant. Take the PSP, for example. While later models do have a TV out
feature, the launch model could only play games on its own screen so there was
technically no need for the developers of early titles like Ridge Racer to make
their graphics scalable to any aspect ratio, but thanks to the power of
emulators. We should be able to get it rendering in 58 by nine anyway. So we've got our PSP emulator open here and-- I have never used a PSP emulator. They have some fun features and they can just do full screen like this. How do I even line up which thing I'm changing? Yardstick maybe? Oh. Oh yeah, there you go. Okay, V-sync. Okay, do we want that on? And now you'll see that the car looks correct. Yeah. Everything else looks wrong, but the car looks correct. And that's the difference between 2D and 3D there. So any asset that is just built at a fixed pixel count is gonna look terrible. And anything that was built using scalable graphics actually is gonna look, I mean, overall, it looks shot. That speedometer though. Overall, this is not nearly as horrible as I would have expected though. Bomberman would be amazing on this. I think we are going to cover the history of Bomberman and Ultra Wide Screen in the Floatplane exclusive. LMG.GG/Floatplane. You see we've got a couple different cheats here. We've got PSP 16x9, Ultra Wide, Super Wide, and then I've added my own Stupid Wide here. Yeah. Go to actually edit cheat file here. Yeah. We can see we've got a couple different cheats here. Now, the first part is the section in memory we want to change. So in this case, this memory holds. just the aspect ratio. Oh, very cool. The second number is a hexadecimal of the aspect ratio itself. So in our case, we've got 6.4 because it's 58 divided by nine. Yep. That's basically how this and a bunch of other consoles just handle aspect ratio. It's one spot in memory. It's the result of dividing the big by the little, the width by the height. Anyway, the point is for years, the PC side of things was full of similar half implementations of scalable graphics. And while many modern games have been designed in anticipation of weird resolutions, like on a Microsoft Surface or on one of these, older titles are full of issues during the transition years from square to wider displays, issues that will obviously be hilariously exaggerated on this thing. Oh no. It's a good thing the doors in this hospital are super wide, otherwise I would have no hope of fitting through them. Oh my God, this car. It looks like six people are sitting abreast here. "Hitman: Blood Money" supports widescreen, but you would never know it from the ultra cinematic view of the cut scenes. Nor would you know it from the configuration menu. The issue in this case, and in many, is that the developer just couldn't be arsed to expose the option to the user. So it supports the resolution, but there's actually nowhere to change it in this menu. And this isn't because it was necessarily a ton of extra work to add those options, but it's because any added features. It's gonna add development and testing time, both of which cost money. And money is a thing that the corporate overlords are not quick to spend unless they absolutely have to. So in the early days of widescreen, it basically came down to how many people are gonna be using one like this? Enough to bother? Oh, well then forget it. I also couldn't help noticing that this particular game appears to be a vertical minus game. Rather than a horizontal plus game. Even though everything is rendered proportionally accurately, we can't see for sh*t. We just have a slice of about a third to a quarter of what we
should be able to see. Before you ask, by the way, yes, there is a configuration menu
outside of the game, but as you can see, that's not gonna help us. No. To get help, we're gonna need a site like Widescreen Gaming
Forum. . They were a godsend back in the day, and while they're kinda dead
now, they were an invaluable resource for hacking your way into widescreen
gaming bliss. Sometimes literally. Lara Croft in The Guardian of Light is an excellent example of
this. A registry edit might not be a "hack" in the literal sense, but as
someone who went through the frustration of trying to get my beloved older games
working on my new widescreen gaming monitor, it definitely "feels" a little like hacking the Gibson when you
finally see everything load up and you're like, "aww yeah!" And the same goes for the classic .ini edit. Many games have a configuration file that tells the game which in-
game settings to use by default. For games that had engine level support, but just didn't expose the
option for a widescreen resolution in the menu, this was often, not only, the only solution, but also a pretty easy one. And fun fact, by the way, if you ever accidentally configure your game settings on a modern game, just ignoring the whole widescreen thing, into an unusable state, say you turned on DirectX 12 combined with some other setting that I still haven't figured out in Anno 1800, well, you can go into the .ini file and fix it, launch the game again, and then go back to your trial and error. Now, not all of these hacks were so not actually hack. And in fact, some games like Lara Croft and the
Temple of Osiris required the user to replace the executable itself with a modified one,
hopefully downloaded from a trusted source in order to add widescreen functionality. That threshold of
trust was up to you to decide. And I think 2024 me probably would have told 2007 me to be a bit
more prudent. I also would have told myself that sometimes it is just plain not worth it. See, there are two possible ways for a game to scale your view when trying to accommodate a super wide monitor. It can extend the horizontal view like we saw with our racing games. And actually it looks like Temple of Osiris extends horizontally. Or if the engine doesn't support it or the game's own implementation doesn't support it, it can just shrink your vertical view to match your aspect ratio like we saw in Hitman: Blood Money. Oh, apparently we get to play another game like that now. Oh boy, this doesn't seem like the kind of game that should do that. Yep, that's definitely a problem. I mean, obviously there's an argument against just seeing an endless expanse of water to the side of this island that we're all fighting over. But on the other hand, I can't even see the context of anything below me. I can't zoom out. That's maximum zoom. This isn't only a problem in games either. There are folks out there who have started collecting DVDs again, just so they can see visual gags that were lost when their favorite shows went widescreen for online streaming, like that famous Duff beer gag on "The Simpsons." I think "Seinfeld" has some really bad ones as well. Here's what I'm talking about, the episode called "The Pothole." You can't see "The Pothole" if you watch "Seinfeld" on Netflix. As bad of an experience as this is in your TV shows or games though, it can be even worse. In a game menu. Now, this is an issue that is obviously accidental and honestly doesn't come up that often, but with this particular display being only 600 pixels tall, the fact that menus have a minimum height in order to be usable is something not to be overlooked. Borderlands, in fact, plays just fine once you can get into the game, but in order to do that, well, you're going to have to, I don't know. Look at this. See, I can't move my mouse above options. So I just need to, ah, yes. Use the keyboard to navigate and either have a picture for reference or have memorized how many clicks. Maybe that one. Ah. Oh no. A common but thankfully less game-breaking widescreen implementation issue is aspect-locked FMV videos. These show up in games where otherwise the support is perfectly fine and the game is perfectly playable, but you reach a point in the story where it's time for a little bit of exposition or dialogue, and all of a sudden, either the aspect ratio shrinks to 16:9 or, heaven forbid, 4:3, or, worse than that, it takes a pre-baked scene and then just stretches it across your
entire screen. Thankfully, all it really does is break immersion, and it's
improved a lot in recent years, but it does still show up quite a lot. Of course, just because a game supports any resolution and avoids
the dreaded vert-minus-view syndrome doesn't mean that it's going to be without
issues. Parkitect, for example, looks great. Very playable, except, oh my
goodness, my UI is so far away that I'm having difficulty reading it. It's playable, it's not the end of the world, but when HUD and UI elements are anchored to the sides of the screen, they can end up so far out of view that in order to see them, you have to completely take your eyes off the action in the middle of the screen. And while it might seem impossible for anyone in their right mind to be using a 58 by nine monitor, in fact, NVIDIA Surround and iFinity setups using three 16 by nine monitors are pretty common and they form a view that is awfully similar to ours
just with bezels down the middle. One iFinity League of Legends modder went
so far as to build a tool that moves the HUD over from the sides of the screen and then resizes it
to the user's liking. The tool has been long abandoned but it was a great idea and a feature that
really should be baked into more games. There are a number of hacky tools that gamers have used
over the years to fix widescreen issues like custom resolution utility but there are too
many for us to demonstrate all of them today. Fortunately, it's far less of a problem these days and most games won't outright break if you try to launch them on weird resolution monitors. But it's obvious from a game design standpoint that it's just not possible to offer a perfect experience at every display size and shape. Oh, here's an example. On the first level of this game, you've got the farmer, right? Yeah. Or the gardener. And there's a lot of times where the camera wants to attach the gardener and it can actually move the goose outside of the view of the camera. It doesn't really cause any major issues, but you end up moving the goose around without it being on screen, which can become very confusing very quickly. It's clear that there's just games that aren't gonna benefit from a super wide monitor and are gonna look kind of silly if you have one. Yeah, I don't think I would choose an ultra, ultra, ultra wide monitor to play this game. You're not always given the choice. Some modern games don't support ultra wide resolutions for gameplay reasons. Starcraft 2 isn't the most recent example, but it's a very famous one of a game that supports various aspect ratios and resolutions, but no wider than 16 by nine in order to prevent owners of ultra wide monitors from getting a greater view of the battlefield, giving them a competitive advantage. This has been a source of considerable frustration for owners who are sick of looking at blank spaces on the edges of their match, especially when other competitive Blizzard games do support the feature. So in summary, monitors and TVs, they're probably wide enough at this point. And even for digital signage, we honestly had a hard time coming up with any use for this thing. We were thinking maybe like a menu for the concession at the badminton center or something, but like it's so skinny and the resolution sucks. So wanna buy the widest monitor? No? How about something from our sponsor? War Thunder. What could be more satisfying than watching large
vehicles get destroyed in a video game? Maybe watching over 2,000 vehicles get destroyed? War Thunder is a free-to-play PvP with a focus on realism. The combat is immersive, with every tank, plane, and ship being
modeled after their real counterparts, right down to how it feels to pilot them and the sounds they make. There's a game mode for everyone, from the casual to the most
hardcore players. One of the cooler features is the damage x-ray view. When you destroy an enemy vehicle, you can see where the damage was
done, how it affected the vehicle, and what ultimately led to your
victory, making strategizing for the next time easier. So join over 70 million players from around the world and start playing War Thunder free today at the link below. If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe check out our video on the
Samsung Odyssey Arc. It is absolutely huge and maybe somehow less impractical than this
monitor. What are we doing with this thing? Okay, it's for sale.