- [Austin] This video is
sponsored by Rhinoshield. The iPhone 13 might look boring,
but I have breaking news. This might be the first iPhone ever where, I can't complain about anything. In the past, I've certainly
done many videos on iPhones. I've certainly used iPhones
and they've always been good, but they've never been perfect. And certainly the perfect
device does not exist. But what I think is
been a difficulty for me is that I've always been tempted by something on the Android side, whether it's 5G, whether
it's a folding device, whether it's a 120 Hertz display. To me, it's always been like,
"The iPhone is great but..." "It's great for everyone except..." There's always been
some kind of qualifier. But with the iPhone 13 Pro, that qualifier can really
kind of be dropped out. This phone now does basically everything. So one of the things I
think is most interesting about these phones, is
how similar they look. I mean, you look at this iPhone 13 mini. And from the back, short of the camera being
slightly different looking, is pretty much exactly
the same as the 12 mini that's been living in my
pocket for the last year. Same thing goes for something
like the iPhone 13 Pro. Yes, it's got some new colors and yes, that camera bump is Chungus-y. Technically Chungus, wait, Big Chungus-y? So I always say Chungus, what's the... - [Ken] Chungi. - Chungi. In my first video, when these
things were first announced, I talked about how the iPhone 13 itself, not the Pro, but the 13, is I would say, a little bit
of a tougher sell this year. In the past, I think
it's been a little bit of an easier conversation to have, because when you go between
the regular 13 and the Pro, it's like, oh, it's
basically the same phone, this one's slightly different. But this year, for not
that much more money, the Pro is a significant step up. But I would argue that all of
the iPhone 13s are actually a bigger upgrade than most
people give them credit for. So there's a lots to like here. Of course, you've got
those high-end specs, the Apple A15, take a look
at all the benchmarks, it is incredibly powerful. But what's interesting this year, is that unlike on the
standard 13 and 13 mini, this has a more powerful GPU. So this has five cores
instead of four cores. Realistically, that's not going to make
a massive difference. But when you think about this
as a no-compromise device, the Pro is really this sort
of more complete package, especially when you consider the display. The iPhone 13 Pro and Pro
Max have ProMotion displays aka Apple's fancy marketing term for 120 frames per second panels. Now, the iPhone has always
had the performance, right? For seven, eight years now,
iPhones have pretty universally been the most powerful
phones that you can find. However, over the last
few years, in my opinion, they've been a little bit
hamstrung by their displays. 60 Hertz is fine, it seems smooth enough, but once you experience 90 or 120 frames per second on a phone display, you really can appreciate
just how smooth things are. And in a world where $200 Android devices have 90 Hertz displays, and even if they have a
fraction of the performance, they have that sort of smooth scrolling and that kind of capability, it makes the more powerful
iPhones feel inferior. But no longer is that a downside because the displays on
these phones are terrific. Now I don't want to sound biased here. I mean, I certainly spend a lot of time with my Z Flip 3, for example, which is still really my
overall favorite phone, but that is a phone that
is filled with compromise. And the iPhone just
isn't this year, right? I mean, yeah this phone
looks exactly the same as the iPhone of last year. People were like, "Oh,
it's an iPhone 12S." But if you think about what
you get with this device and the upgrades, they
are significant, right? Not only do you get the better cameras, which we'll talk about in a second. Not only do you get
the better performance, but you also get a big
jump to battery life. Anywhere between an hour and a half and two and a half hours
more than Apple quotes, based on which model you pick up. And in my limited testing,
that seems pretty accurate. I mean, all of these phones, but especially when you get to the Pro and especially the Pro Max,
they have serious longevity, which is great when you pair it with the rest of the package. Now, are there nitpicks? Sure, absolutely. Especially when you look
at the Pro and the Pro Max. These things are just heavy. And while that might not necessarily be the be-all, end-all of a phone, if you're using this thing
one-handed for awhile, you've got to get some forearm strength. Is that the finger strength? What am I using to hold this
right now? I'm using 1, 2, 3. Yeah, forearm strength. - [Matt] No, do you think
it's called forearm because there's three fingers and an arm? (beeps) - Speaking of iPhones,
this video is sponsored by our friends over at Rhinoshield. Now we've done a lot of tests on Rhinoshield stuff over the past. And these, in my opinion,
are the most durable cases and the most durable
packaging of any device that I actually would want to carry with me on a daily basis. These have survived some serious drama. How many times have you dropped my phone for a Rhinoshield spot? Why, what are you doing? (Ken makes gleeful noise) The nice thing about these, is that not only do they fit perfectly for the brand new iPhone 13
mini, iPhone 13, Pro, Max, as well as a lot of the
other earlier iPhones. I've got my 12 mini here in that sweet PewDiePie "Floor Gang" case. - [Jared] We got NBA. - [Austin] NBA?
- [Jared] We got League of Legends. - [Jared] League of Legends? We got NASA. - [Austin] NASA? - [Jared] We got Pac-Man. - [Austin] Pac-Man? - [Jared] We got dinosaur with soldiers. - I don't think that's a collab... Is that collaboration?
- [Jared] I don't know. - [Austin] There's also
a lot of customization with the Mod NX line, which can go from
everything from a bumper, and you can add the rear protection. You can also swap out the
color of just the buttons. Rhinoshield sell excellent
screen protectors. And you can also protect
your other Apple devices with things like cases for AirPods, as well as your Apple Watch. So if you're ready to protect
your brand new iPhone 13, or maybe even an older
iPhone or Android device, definitely be sure to
go check out the link in the description where
you can get up to 20% off for the first week this video
goes live, or 10% after that. They've got worldwide shipping. You've got full lifetime
replacement warranty if you're ever able to somehow
destroy your Rhinoshield. So of course, huge
thank you to Rhinoshield for sponsoring this portion
of our iPhone video. The biggest upgrade on the iPhone 13 that's really noticeable are
of course, the new cameras. Not only on the standard 13 and the mini, but especially on the Pro and the Pro Max. So this entire video is being
shot on the iPhone 13 Pro Max. And we've been using a variety of different lenses and stuff. And we'll talk a little bit more about some of the specifics. But the thing that I really appreciate is how big of an upgrade this truly is. What I like about this is the fact that Apple has put some
real effort into... What are with all the bugs? Is it because I'm
sitting on the bug bench? 'Cause there are like ants
crawling on me right now. So this is the setup we're using to record the video with right now. Ken's using the Pro Max, as well as we're using with
some of these Rode Lavs. Which of course, the audio
on an iPhone is decent, but it's never as good as
using something external. But the nice thing is this
is the entire rig, right, there's nothing else to this. Which makes a big difference
when it comes to actually making our content simpler
and easier to shoot. So the iPhone 13 sees a
slightly smaller camera upgrade. So the ultra-wide has been improved and the standard lens
is a little bit better. Essentially, it's very
similar to what we had on the iPhone 12 Pro Max last year. But the Pro is where it's
at, not only do you have a much improved ultra-wide
camera with macro mode, you've got the new main camera,
you also have the telephoto. And when we put all this
together with, more ants on me, then you'll find that
there's a, I would say, a significant upgrade in
iPhone camera performance. Now, no one would say that the iPhone 12 of last year was a slouch. I mean, honestly, a lot
of videos on the channel have been shot somewhat or primarily on an iPhone 12 mini, right? You've used the 12 Pro Max. Look, we use iPhones
all the time in videos and it cuts pretty seamlessly with a lot of our much
more expensive cameras. But the Pro this year, really does take it to the next level. I'm gonna wipe some more ants
off me before we continue. 'Cause they're definitely on my arms. - [Ken] I'd say that,
especially with people doing TikTok more.
- Yeah. - [Ken] And Instagram more, this phone is absolutely
meant for those people. - Absolutely. The Pro is a true, uh. The Pro name was always
kind of weird to me, but it does feel like it
is meant more for people who actually rely on these cameras for more than just taking
a quick shot, right. Like these are something that you can actually do pro things on. So the video what you're seeing right now, is being shot in the standard 4K 24 mode. However, there's also cinematic mode. This is an example of what
cinematic mode looks like. Now you can essentially think about this as portrait mode for video. Now, as you saw from a lot of the footage from earlier in the video, you actually don't
always need portrait mode to get this kind of like
shallow depth of field. But this cinematic mode
definitely does lots of amp it up. There are some sacrifices. So not only does this not
work on the ultra-wide, so it only works on the 1X
and the 3X telephoto lenses, but it also only records at
1080p 30, which 1080p is fine, although it'd be nice
if we could shoot it 24 instead of 30, for some weird reason. One thing I will say is that
there is still more to come specifically on the Pro model. So ProRes, the codec is
coming to these devices at some point later this year. We shoot a lot of ProRes on
our more professional cameras. And it is a good codec because
there's a lot of data there, but that's, I think, a little bit more of a
minor thing, honestly. Because I think, at least for a video, this is the best smartphone you can buy. - So obviously we use the
iPhone a lot for video, but something that I personally like is the fact that the iPhone has really solid cameras
for still photography. So for my social media stuff,
for Twitter, @kenbolido, I actually upload a lot of stills and I like shooting and
editing on the iPhone. Now what I want to try
is, the ultra-wide camera for normal stuff has never
really been that great, especially when there
are people in the shot. I'm gonna take a photo of Austin here. Yeah, it's not the most impressive thing, but it is better than it was before. - [Austin] It was really bad before, I think that's the thing.
- It was. - [Austin] Ultra-wide is like, so if I can switch to
ultra-wide right now, right? So this is what the video
looks like on the ultra-wide. And I actually think the video is a little bit kinder
to it than the photos. Because like, I mean, this is a cool look, like I can get right on top of you, and yet this still looks
fine and we have auto-focus. - Yeah. - [Austin] But when you go between this and the standard mode, there's a pretty
significant bump in quality. Something else worth
considering is the price. So these devices are
pretty much universally the exact same price as
their 2020 counterparts. There is one exception to that, which is the iPhone 13 and the 13 mini now have double the base storage, which is a nice improvement. That's about roughly a $50 price cut compared to where they were last year. But in a year that has been
filled with chip shortages of everything from cars to GPUs, that has massively inflated prices and certainly made it more
expensive for everyone, Apple included, to get
their hands on chips. I actually do want to say
that it is a good thing that Apple has been able to
deliver these phones on time and at the same price. It would have been the easiest
thing in the world for Apple to be like, "Oh, well, you
know, due to chip shortage, et cetera, et cetera, we're
gonna bump up the price of all the iPhones this
year by $50 or $100." And they would have
made billions of dollars in additional profit,
but they didn't do that. Now, I guess on the flip side, can I really be that happy about a company who didn't raise their prices? Probably not. But in a world where I pay double MSRP on graphics cards on a regular basis, it's certainly something to consider. The iPhone 13 Pro is an
incredibly solid package. And I'm really curious, what
do you think it's missing outside of something like Android? Seriously, let me know
in the comments below, because as far as I'm concerned, this is not only one of
the most complete iPhones that they've ever sold, this is one of the most
complete Apple products that I've tried in a very, very long time. (chilled music)