- Hey guys, this is Austin. Today Samsung unveiled their brand new Galaxy S10 lineup of phones, and while when you look
at that Galaxy S10, it's a lot of phone, but it's also a lot of money at $1000. And then there's this, the Galaxy S10E, which is a new, cheaper version of the Galaxy S10. As far as I'm concerned, it is the one to get. So as you might know, I have been using the iPhone XR recently. Now as you might imagine
from behind me here, you can see that they've
been really pushing it, but that's for good reason. Not only is this the budget iPhone, but as far as I'm concerned,
it's the better one. It's got better battery life, and the cuts you make
save 200, 300 dollars, seem totally worth it to me. Samsung is doing something
similar with the 10E. It's $750, coincidentally
the same price as the XR, and the same $250 cheaper than
their highest end S10 model. It does make a lot of sense
for I think most people. What you're getting here is a slightly smaller 5.8 inch display. Now it is only 1080p as apposed to 1440p. I don't know what that was, but I'm gonna continue going. But the important thing here is that while you lose a
little bit of resolution, as far as I was able to tell, it still looks really nice and sharp. And something else you loose are the curved infinity edges on the display, and that's something I
actually do kind of like. It's been around all the
way back since like what? The Galaxy Note Edge. But the most important thing here, is that all of the cuts
they've done to this E are very reasonable. It's small stuff that you're
really not gonna miss. Now it's kind of hard to show on camera, but the 10E is actually a fair bit smaller than even something like
the Galaxy S9, the S10, and especially the iPhone XR. As far as I'm concerned, bring it on. I love high end, compact flagships. Similar to something like the Pixel 3. It's a really sort of unique size, and especially with that
full-size display, it looks nice. Something the 10E does lack compared to it's higher-end brothers is an in display fingerprint sensor. Instead the fingerprint sensor is paired with the power button on
the side of the phone, and from my brief hands-on it seems fine, it's not something I'm
going to miss that much, but if that's something you wanna show off to your friends with, go spend $250 to do that. Spec wise, you're not giving anything up by going with the 10E. You still get that same Snapdragon 855, and while the base model does have six gigs of RAM, and 128 gigs of storage, the higher end eight
gigs with 256 gig model, has pretty much the same
spec as the S10, the S10 Plus, not counting the crazy, much ultra very, super-duper expensive 12 gigabyte, titanium, one terabyte model, but we're just gonna ignore that. That's like double the price of the 10E, so we're just gonna. It's fine, it's fast, it's fine. The main camera sensor is very similar to what you got on the Galaxy S9. So you do have the dual apertures, you've got the dual pixel auto focus. You're really not gonna see
a major difference here, although apparently it is a new sensor. What has been added to
all the Galaxy S10 models, is a new ultra wide angle camera. Now as always with these things, you do lose a little bit of quality, but what you gain is an
incredibly wild, wild? Wide field of view. I guess it could be wild too. A little exciting, a little
dangerous, a little wild. Now the higher models do have a third telephoto camera, which is nice, but I mean, I don't know. That's one of those things where I always find the
quality is so far off that it doesn't make a
huge difference to me. Now upfront, you do have the same 10 megapixel front-acing camera. It's nice and wide, and from
what I was able to tell, it looks pretty nice. But again, if you go all
the way up to the S10 Plus, you are going to be getting that secondary front-facing camera, but I mean, eh. So when it comes to the
rest of the good stuff, the S10E has it. So we still have a headphone jack, because Samsung for some
reason actually listens, that's pretty impressive. There's also WiFi 6 onboard, which is about 20% faster, and should give you much
faster response time. And on top of all of that, you do still have stereo speakers, even though you have
the hole-punch display. There's a tiny driver
on the top of the panel, and even on the 10E, I've gotta say, it sounds pretty good. There is a cool feature in that you an wirelessly charge straight from the Galaxy S10. All you need to do is turn on the setting, and then once you put another
phone on the back of yours, it will use Qi charging to wirelessly charge that other phone. Now that's a super cool feature. The down side though is that the Galaxy S10E only has about a 3100 milliamp hour battery. Now that should be fine, Samsung still quotes it as a
24 hour battery life phone, but especially after spending
so much time with the XR, where the battery really
is the strong suit, I don't have high
expectations with the 10E. I really hope that that Snapdragon 855 is super efficient, because otherwise it's
going to be, probably, average, decent, but I guess we'll see. Samsung Galaxy S10 lineup will be going on sale on March 8th. Now the thing is the 10E really is the one that
gets me the most excited. Now sure, the other phones are cool, and you are getting more features, but when you consider how
much more expensive they are, it's kind of hard to justify the price. Whereas as far as I'm concerned, I like that small size. I like the yellow, because
I'm a sucker for yellow. And most importantly, hi, can you be in my video for a second? - Yeah. What you need buddy? - Should you buy a Galaxy S10, an S10E, an S10 Plus, or save your money and buy a Palm phone? - Wow, Palm phone it is. - Okay cool, anyway. Thank you guys so much for watching. I appreciate it. If you guys wanna catch any
more on the Galaxy S10E, or some of the other phones
that are coming out soon, make sure to subscribe to the channel. Anyway guys, I'm going to go hang out at the Apple store 'cause it's right in the background and I thought it would be funny for our Samsung video.