- This is the ROG Zephyrus G14. If this looks familiar,
it's because it should. We've been using this laptop in the studio ever since it came out back in 2020. So, when our friends at
ROG reached out and asked if they could sponsor a video
on the brand new version of the G14 for 2024, I couldn't say no. Open... Oh, my God, it's a book. It's, like, bound into it. This doesn't even come
apart, like, it is a book, "A new horizon, ROG Zephyrus G14." Also, I know this is like a nerdy detail, this is like one of those, you know, like, those real fancy books. You're gonna walk into a
Congressperson's office, who you're probably sure
has been bribed in the past with some very fancy things, well, this is the kind of quality of paper that they would have on the books and their dining room tables or desks. (clears throat) Sorry, did I? (chuckles) It kind of just shows the way
they've actually designed it, so they show the colorways, they show that it's also
now made out of aluminum, which is actually kind of interesting, because with the previous G14s, and, honestly, like most
ASUS and ROG laptops, they're in, like, sort of a
traditional multi-piece design. So, immediately I get the idea that this is going to
be a more premium setup for the G14 this time. What? Look at this, look at
that, that's so cool. You got a triple fan set up. Look, there's a lot of stuff in here, and we've got the laptop itself. That is a really unique unboxing. Oh, snap, that's thin! Holy. And we've also
got, look at this size of that trackpad, too. The trackpad pretty much takes up the entire bottom of the chassis. I liked the original G14. Don't get me wrong, I don't
wanna make it seem like I'm complaining about this, 'cause this has been the
main laptop in the studio for the last three years for a reason, but this, if you handed
this to me and just said, "Oh, this is, like, the
next Zenbook," or something, I would be like, "Oh, neat," but the fact that this is
a full-on gaming computer with what I assume are quite decent specs on the inside, that is cool. Let me be real, if you're Razer, you're like, "Oh, (duck quacks)" Is there anything else in
here? (soft electronic music) Is this supposed to do something? I think this is supposed to do something. - [Joanna] There is a
USB-C port on the side. - Do we plug in our box? Do we plug in our book?
- [Joanna] Maybe follow the, you know.
- Yeah, you know what, that's fair, that's fair, I could do that. I feel like this is
supposed to do something. By the time you watch this
video, I'll be at CES. I will ask ASUS what
this is supposed to do. Is that a backpack? (backpack thuds) Ah! No! No, not the G14!
(crew laughing) I'm sorry.
(crew continues laughing) He hasn't even... (crew continues laughing) Take a moment and calm down a little bit. Well, it says, "Zenbook," on it. Wait, what? What is this? (box rattles) They sent Legos again, didn't they? I'm trying to review
laptops here, what is, oh, (soft intriguing music) - [Joanna] That's gotta be you. - But my concern is why
am I in so many pieces? We also have what I assume
has gotta be the G16, right? It does have the same design language. It certainly is made out of
the same kind of aluminum. One of the big upgrades with both of these laptops this year, in addition to the build quality, which I'll say is probably one
of the biggest differences, is the fact that they both
upgraded to OLED displays. So, Matt, - [Joanna] Austin can't put together, like, two Lego pieces. - No, no, no, here's the thing, okay? They sent me a Lego of myself,
but it came in a few pieces. Like, I'll be real, I didn't have plans of
trying to daily the G14. Like, I was like, "Oh, you know," like, I don't typically need to carry a gaming laptop with me every day. (soft upbeat music) The thought is currently crossing my mind that maybe this is my daily. - Your butt straps.
- Not butt straps, it's just called a little
bit of support, man. That's pretty good. (soft upbeat music continues) - Do you remember the kid
from, "Polar Express," - Okay.
- Who's like, "Um, actually," that's who that grew up to be. (Alex laughing) - Let's take a close look at
the G14 and the G16, shall we? Well, the new G14 looks
dramatically different. There are actually no new
graphics cards this year to cram inside of it, which means that the ROG
team can't just throw a 5090 in here and call it a day, which means they had to use
a lot of clever engineering to make it thinner, cooler, and in my opinion,
better across the board. Let's start out by talking
about the Ryzen 9 8945HS, which is a new CPU that's
just been released. We're talking eight Zen 4 CPU cores, the max boost clock of 5.2 gigahertz, and new for this generation
are the Ryzen AI cores, which deliver 16 TOPS of performance. Now, look, you're gonna hear
a whole lot about AI at CES, throughout the rest of this year, largely because it is a big, big upgrade. So, being able to do on-device
AI is an important thing, especially when you consider
that if the rumors are true, Windows 12 is going to
heavily be relying on devices that have some real AI
performance on board. The most important part of the new G14 is really just how much
smaller and lighter they managed to make it. So, they shaved about
a third of a pound off and almost 2/10ths of an inch. That might not sound like much, but you can absolutely feel it. It's funny, this actually
has very similar dimensions to a 14-inch MacBook Pro, which
is absolutely a compliment, considering the kind of hardware
that they were able to cram in this form factor. Now, you might think
that with all of that, and being so thin, it
would overheat like crazy. They've got liquid metal
cooling, not one, not two, but three of their
brand new Arc Flow Fans, and I will say that while
it loses out on a very small amount of performance compared
to last year's version of the G14 with the same GPU, we're talking a couple percent, but it is way quieter, especially from sort
of the normal distance, and, also, I just wanna emphasize how much more livable the G14 is. I mean, the G14 has always
been a very good daily laptop with the size and its form factor, but with this G14, it is so nice as far as the hardware goes. It also has their new ROG charge port, which means that you can fast-charge it. Now, keeping in mind that this is running pre-production hardware and software, I can't do any benchmarks of this device. What I can do is give
you some general thoughts on what it's like to game on. So, there are a few things
that are interesting about using this laptop for gaming, one of which is while when you're gaming, you certainly can hear some fan noise, and it gets very warm toward the top, the keyboard, and especially
at the trackpad area, feel relatively cool to the touch. Now, the screen itself is
another place where ROG have stepped it up. So, it's been upgraded from either an IPS or mini-LED, last generation, to an incredibly sharp
3K OLED with G-SYNC. Let me emphasize that it is a very, very different experience gaming on OLED. Sure, on paper, it is
not a complete upgrade. I mean, last year's
model ran at 165 hertz, where this one tops out at only 120, but I would absolutely take
it on the OLED in a heartbeat. Not only are you getting
the amazing contrast, the great colors, and you've also got the excellent response time. It is clear that, like,
especially with G-SYNC and everything, it is smooth as butter. The experience of gaming on this laptop is also just terrific. I mean, not only is it incredibly smooth and sort of responsive, but I'm talking about the
speakers absolutely kick ass. Like, they really, really do sound great. I could just walk around, but
I'm committed to the bit now. (upbeat electronic music) That sounds pretty good, right? Yeah, that's 30% volume. (upbeat electronic music grows louder) (upbeat electronic music continues) (chuckles) As I try to
look for my glasses, I think, and I'm not
exaggerating in any way, the G14 is now among my, like, top two or three laptop speakers, period. Even comparing it to larger devices, the G16 also has terrific speakers, it's a little bit bigger, but, like, what they're pumping out of a laptop of this size is unbelievable. So, it's so good, I lost my eyeballs. I just couldn't handle it. You know what I like about
this G14, not only the size, which feels very sort of daily drivable, but also the fact that there's not a lot of other compromise. You know, the screen, like, everything that makes it a
bright, smooth, contrasty screen great for gaming also makes
it a great everyday laptop. The webcam's pretty good. It's got Windows Hello Facial Recognition. It is really rare for me
to take a look at a device and have essentially no criticism. I already love the G14, and this one is just better in every way. (gun firing on laptop) Okay, well maybe I'll use the G14 to get a little more practice in. And all this also segues over to the G16. So, the G16 is, of course,
the 16-inch version of the same laptop, and it has
pretty much all the upgrades that I love from the G14. I will say, though, it does have a few extra
tricks up its sleeve. The G16 ships with the
Intel Core Ultra 9 185H, which is a monster of a mobile chip. It's got 16 cores,
which is split this year between six performance, eight efficiency, and two high efficiency
or high-power efficiency that can also hit a max
turbo of over five gigahertz, 5.1 on this side, compared to 5.2, but look, no noob will ever think that you're gaming on a laptop if you're rocking one
of these new Zephyruses. The G16 does have a choice of display, but there should be only one you pick, and that is this OLED. It is slightly actually lower resolution than the G14 at 2.5K, but it has a crazy
refresh rate of 240 hertz, and on top of that, it has a
960 hertz pixel emission rate. Essentially, the OLED
panel itself is refreshing several times for every new
frame you get in the game, to make that truly wild
response time a reality, or you could just go
with a regular TFT panel if you wanna save a few bucks, but honestly, don't even bother. The OLEDs on these are terrific. Now, the G16 does have slightly
higher-end GPU options, where the G14 for 2024
tops out at an RTX 4060, or specifically an RTX 4070, and this model, this one
will go all the way up to an RTX 4090, but let's be real, if you care about the maximum performance, you're gonna get a beefier
gaming laptop. Well, the Zephryus line is
about striking a balance between portability and performance, and personally, I prefer
a device like this. I value tons of raw horsepower and something that's an inch thick, that'll go into turbo mode, but, look, I want something
that I can carry around every day with me, and something that feels
nice and premium to use, and that's really where
the Zephyrus line sort of has its sort of sweet spot. Now, as we're recording this video, I don't actually know the
prices of these laptops. You probably will by the time
you're watching this video, and if I have it, I will
put it up on screen. It is almost certainly
gonna be more expensive than the 2023 models, since
these have that brand new aluminum chassis and whatnot, but look, I mean, it's super simple. The G14 is one of my favorite
pieces of laptop hardware that I have ever tried. Like, it is rare that
a single device checks so many boxes for me personally. I love the form factor and size. I love how thin and light it is, the trackpad, keyboard,
screen, performance, ports, I mean, pretty much everything you could ask for in a
laptop, it checks the boxes. So, thank you very much to ASUS and ROG for sponsoring this video. If you wanna learn anything
else about the Zephyrus G14 or G16, I'll have those
linked in the description, and make sure to stay tuned
and subscribe to the channel. This CES, there is an enormous
amount of very cool tech, and I'm gonna be covering
as much as I can, and when I finally take a nap
at some point in February.