- Anything is easy if you know
exactly what you're doing, but by the same token, anything can be difficult
or even impossible if you lack the requisite
skills, resources, or knowledge. - That's the basic premise of this video, where Linus and I, now three weeks into daily driving some form of Linux on our personal gaming machines, will change the gears and attempt to complete 12 simple tasks. - Simple as long as we've
actually been doing our homework to familiarize ourselves with our Linux desktop environments. Here we go. Thanks to NZXT for
sponsoring today's video NZXT wants to make building
a custom PC easier. Within NZXT BLD, just set a budget, see how the computer performs
with your favorite games, and BLD takes care of the rest. Use the link down below to
get your own custom PC today. (upbeat music) While the main idea behind the Linux Daily Driver Challenge is to evaluate the Linux experience from a gamer's perspective, even the most ardent gamer
will occasionally want to do other things on their
PC like print out a document or watch a video. And those things need
to not only be possible, but also fast and painless enough that they aren't immediately prompted to run back to Windows. So with that in mind, we've set a time limit for each
of our tasks of 15 minutes. - Compared to gaming, basic office work is much
more mature on Linux. And for anything that's
not straightforward, there's a good chance that
you can find a web app to fill the gap. These days, everything
from word processing to basic video editing or even creating 3D
mock-ups can all be done in a browser and often for free. - In preparation for this
part of the challenge, I practiced using PlayOnLinux
by installing Notepad++. And I hope that if I really need some other Windows application, that's gonna come in handy for me. If it doesn't, I also have a working
Windows 10 virtual machine that I set up using KVM, but Luke and I agreed ahead of time that using a VM that's running paid, non-open-source software kind of violates the spirit
of the challenge here, even if it is technically within bounds. So there's gonna be a 1/2 point deduction for using that workaround. - I didn't install a VM or do any other form of special prep, but because I work from home most days, I've been doing a lot of everyday stuff on my machine already, and I'm expecting this to
be pretty straightforward. - Here are the challenges
you must surmount in whatever order you please. Cut and paste a file from one drive. Oh. (laughs) Man, I was expecting them to come up with some stuff that's really challenging. So just like in Windows, Control + X, and I will paste it to
my Kingston thumb drive. It is done. 3.9 gigs, playing it back. Yes, I do appreciate the irony of trying to play Success.mkv and having it just be a black screen. - I'm going to cut this, and I'm gonna paste this. Done. Okay. Step one complete. - I mean, I really didn't consider that this might take me longer than like a couple of seconds, just like it doesn't take longer than a couple of seconds
to go to lttstore.com. Check out our great merch. This is really annoying.
MacOS does this too. There's no refresh button in Dolphin, so you can't force it to refresh. And I know what the philosophy is. The philosophy is you're not
supposed to need to refresh. Well, sometimes I do. So you need to have the button. (Andy laughs) Sorry, it's just I'm
still angry about this from like seven or eight years ago, or whenever I did my MacOS
daily driver challenge. VLC is not even opening anymore. Now I'm kind of afraid to touch anything. Nautilus reports a
completely different setup. Okay. The file is here. And for some reason, VLC launches now. Did it just take that long
to cancel the move operation? It did. I am grabbing us smaller file, Trying to install Teamviewer.txt. I'm cutting, and I'm pasting it. Success. Challenge two,
digitally sign this PDF. I have not specifically
installed any kind of PDF reader, so this is the default. Digitally sign. Oh. Oh, this is looking promising. Oh, draw a rectangle to
indicate the signature field. Okay. Do. A signature of this size
is too small to read. It's because it didn't.
No, I'm just gonna sign it. There are no available
signing certificates. Okay. Man, I thought I was gonna be
done this in like one minute. How to sign. - I'm assuming I'm not
gonna be able to sign it 'cause I'm assuming this is just a reader. Is there something on
here? Document viewer? I know what I use on
Windows for this is Sejda. Okay. Sejda. I'm gonna download Sejda to adjust in case this PDF mod thing doesn't work. Okay. This is what I use on Windows. So let's give this a shot. Sign, your signature. Save. Let me just verify that that worked. Let's get out of here. I don't need Pdfmod. PDF to sign, signed. Done. - Manjaro add PKCS signing certificate. Oh, you can get free trusted certificates from the Let's Encrypt. Oh, or we can use the mkcert tool. Come on. - [Andy] 12:14, you have one minute.
- Yes, yes. I know, Andy. - Oh. Blah, blah, blah. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah. What commands? - [Andy] Uh oh, time's up. - All right. It's clear that this is
a thing that you can do, and it's something that I could figure out if I had another half an hour, an hour, but unfortunately it's not
something that is quick or easy. Ah, I guess I get zero points. I should have bailed a
couple of minutes ago and switched over to my VM. I failed challenged number two. - Export a chart from the Excel. Right click, save as
picture an Excel file. This has gotta be the chart we're trying to right click, export as image. Did that work? I've never done this before. I wasn't even fully
aware that was a thing. Looks like it worked. It has a transparent background, but it doesn't matter I don't think. - So this black background is
not the color of the cells. The black background is just an image. Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Here we go, here we go, here we go. Okay. You just have to find
exactly the right spot. Export as image. Hey. Why is the name System Volume Information? Okay, why did it default to
System Volume Information? Okay. Yes. Okay. I needed a W here, and I got it. It's not quite right. You can see it's actually
missing the borders on the right and bottom, but everything else here looks fine. Calling that a W. - Add a new font. I'm assuming this is just
dragging it into the fonts folder. We'll just do this. Nope. I thought it was going to be as easy as just dragging it into
this folder, to be honest. How do you use install
a font in Linux Mint? Oh, usr/share/fonts/truetype. There we go. Gonna put a Font in here. Permission denied. Okay. So open as root. Done. Now if I load this again, I don't see it. - I'm just gonna copy it
to my Downloads folder. What just happened? Did that just copy to the folder? Why would it do that? I dragged this onto a folder, but because Arch is some
completely separate application that doesn't integrate
properly with Dolphin, it just goes, it just
dumps it into the folder instead of specifically on
the folder I'm dragging it to. So I have to open this
folder, then copy it. I can open Night Zone with... Sorry, what is this? kfontview? Oh, install. Do you want to install the fonts for personal use, system-wide? System-wide. Yes! I'm gonna change my user interface to it. Ha! All right. - I did not think this one
was gonna be difficult. I don't know how much
time I have, actually. I wasn't even paying attention 'cause I thought I was
just gonna blow through it. So it can just go directly into fonts. So it could go directly into there. I don't know. I'm just
gonna put things everywhere. Is it actually called a Font? Is it called Night Zone? Have I been done this whole time? Okay. (laughs) I got it right. I didn't realize it was called Night Zone. Thanks, James. Oh my God. Okay. Sweet. Sick. Print the Word doc. Okay. Here's my Word document. File, print. Yeah, theoretically. I haven't done any setup for a printer, but this looks like a
printer, so let's do it. Okay. A Word document is printing. I'll be back. That's in
my girlfriend's office. We'll see what's gonna happen. That was probably the easiest and best printing experience
I've pretty much ever had. I didn't detect that printer.
I didn't install that printer. I didn't do anything. I know from previously using Mint, I've seen the pop-up in the
top right-hand corner come up being like, "This
printer has connected." But I never did anything for it. And yeah. - Printers. Okay. Hold on. Whoa, whoa, whoa, what was that. Printer HP Device Manager. What is this? Do I even have an HP printer? It's a Samsung. That's gonna be... Wait, whoa. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Are you kidding me? There it is. Samsung CLP-310 series. Okay. I was, wait. Oh, it found a driver. This printer is actually a pain in the ass to get working on Windows because I think the last
time it got a driver was either Vista or Windows 7. I actually have it saved
to a folder on my server because there's no other
place that I can find it, or I can, but it's a real chore. You have to like extract
it from some other thing. Like it's a very giant pain in the butt. This just worked, as far as I can tell. But until I actually see the page, I'm not ready to believe it. Connecting printer, waiting for printer. Let's go, Andy. Let's go, Andy. The light's flashing. It's flashing. Cut on CLP. Yeah! - [Andy] Nice! - I was gonna say I've never been so happy to see a page printed out of a printer, but actually getting something to print is one of those things that pretty much every
time you need to do it, it's like kind of urgent and
kind of a pain in the ass. So no, no, I've been through this a lot. - [Andy] Success. (Linus sighs) - Challenge number six, compress and send all
the files on this drive. Okay. Compress here as .zip. Why is it .zip.uqjqfu? Well, that brings up nothing. Why would it put that there? Goodbye. Failed to open archive. Not a Zip archive. It's a uqjqfu? Nope, it just is broken. Perfect. - I'm going to compress to
a Zip right here. Create. Let's check top. Gonna make sure things are happening. 7zip is attempting to use 100% of my CPU. So things are happening. - Holy crap. Andy, you know what? I think I just fell for the same thing that I said I wouldn't fall for again. Compress here as .zip. It was doing it down
here, and I didn't notice. So I guess the six characters or whatever here is just random jibberish while it's a temporary file. I should change this font back. (laughs) - [Andy] Comic Sans. - I like it. Let's do it. Ooh, DSCU Comic. There we go. Are these files gonna
compress at some point? Dolphin, you're embarrassing yourself. Okay, let's try and do it in, I forget what this one is called. It doesn't matter. Archive name. At least it prompts me for
what I want to call it, but I don't see any kind
of progress indicator. Are you kidding me? Am I
gonna fail to zip a file? - This is not uploading. I was kind of hoping
that I was gonna be able to do every single task
in under 15 minutes. The fonts task really slowed me down 'cause I didn't realize the
font wasn't called a Font. And then this one is slowing me down because it just took a
long time to compress, and now it's taking a long time to upload. But other than that, these
have all been very easy so far. - And this one is clearly stalled. Hold on. Maybe PeaZip's got me still. Hold on. So this is all the stuff. Okay. Copy. Then I can go into Downloads, zip folder. Yes. This is the workaround. Oh my God. 10 minutes
remaining to copy these files. - [Andy] And time's up. - This is another thing
that I definitely can do. It just had some issues. Wait, wait. No, I'm good. I'm good. The first one I did in
Dolphin, it's done, I think. - [Andy] Nice. - Wait. No, I didn't get the point. I'm supposed to send them. Maybe I can weasel my
way out of this a little. - [James] Yello. - What do you mean by compress and send? - [James] Zip it up and
email it or something? - Well, I mean there's a
three-gigabyte file in it, so emailing it is not really practical. - [James] Then just
don't include that video. - Oh, well, I mean, I already zipped the whole
thing including the video. 'Cause like, okay. I'm giving myself the points. I could have emailed this to
someone. I think that's fine. - [James] Okay. - All right. - Okay, well, I can do other
tasks while I'm waiting. Yeah, let's do that. Okay. So take a screenshot. Screenshot. I can do the whole screen. I can do current window.
I can do area to grab. I'm gonna do area to grab, and I'm gonna screenshot this. Bang. It just shows up right here. I'm gonna throw it in the
Linux challenge folder. And there it is. There's a screenshot. I'm gonna wait for make a shortcut. I didn't read this line
before I started this. I don't have a network share. Set up Discord app to open on startup. There's probably, yeah,
startup applications. Add one, choose application. Discord. Add application. Discord's on startup now. Watch 4K content. I'm assuming that's this, the a video. - Google unveiled the
Pixel 6 and 6 Pro today, - Nice.
- but we already knew everything about it because we had every-
- Did we? Okay. Well, I guess I did that. This is done. That just got finished. Insert files using drive. Linux challenge. Okay. One person, view. Send. Got it. - This is really cool. If I search for a snipping tool, it actually is like,
"Ha-ha, we don't have that." But we do have Spectacle, which is a pretty cool
little screenshotting tool. So you just click Take a New Screenshot, and then you can do-do-do-do-do-do-do! Drag a little thing, press Enter. Cool. I get it. - [Andy] Nice. - Now I have to make a shortcut.
Oh man, I got this too. Ugh, no, you can't right click it to where you wanted to make a shortcut. So no, I will find another way to do that. Link to file or directory. Yes, this is a much better
way of doing this. Ha-ha. Name for new link. Okay. Can I copy the location? Yes, I can. Ha-ha. - [Andy] Ay. - Done. - I've like never made shortcuts. I don't make shortcuts in Windows either. I can hold the Shift and Control keys, highlighting and dragging
a file or folder. Okay. Seems a little weird, but let's
make a shortcut of a video (energetic music) That looks like it's a shortcut. Yeah, it's a link. It's a shortcut. Nice. - Connect to a network share. This is actually crazy easy 'cause while I am using
Samba on my Linux NAS, it's a Linux NAS. So yeah. So network, shared folders SMB. Ba-bada-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba! Ladner server! Oh, does it want me to
like map a network share? I mean, that's not really necessary. I can just add a shortcut
to this right here. See? I'm gonna call that good enough. So now, every time I open up Dolphin, I just click Linus, and it will go to my
share, just like that. Mm-mm-mm-mm-mm-mm. - I have received confirmation from James. I don't have any
network-attached storage devices at my home right now, so he said it is okay if I
set up a folder for sharing. I'm gonna go into property.
Oh, sharing options. Let's try that. Samba needs to be installed,
appropriate firewall rules. Let's do this. This is the first one where
I haven't done anything with this at all yet. I've used Samba, but it was 10 years ago. Share this folder is on. Allow others to create and
delete files in this folder. And let's do guest access as well. Add the permissions automatically. Cool. It is now a network share. You can see a little thingamajig there. I think that's it. So in the end, that took me
less than 40 minutes in total. The majority of that time was waiting for a file to compress,
waiting for a file to upload, waiting for a response from
the task master himself, et cetera, not doing the actual tasks. I think that would have taken
me a very similar amount of time in Windows. Actually, the print a file
portion probably went better than it would have on Windows, (laughs) to be completely honest. So yeah. Overall, no problem. Really easy. - Compressing files
failed. copying failed. Yeah, thanks a lot, Dolphin. You suck. Set up Discord app to open on startup. I think it might just do that by default. The first thing I'm gonna do, then, is just test that. I'm feeling good, Andy. I got this. - [Andy] I see Discord. - Hey. Okay. Apparently I had already configured this. So another point for Linus. Watch 4K content. a video.mp4. Where'd it go? Hello? Wait, it goes black in full screen? - [Andy] That's a nice feature. - Why? I grabbed mpv media player, the official repository community version 'cause that seemed like
the most credible one, and then I was able to
immediately open the video in mpv player, and boom, full screen. Solved. Look at that gorgeous guy. Challenge number 12, watch HDR content. As far as I can tell, this is basically just James rubbing in that I have not been able to consume any HDR content this month. Here's an article from a month ago. RedHat has announced it
wants to hire an engineer. Oh, that's a fail, but
everyone's gonna fail. So I feel pretty good. Other than digitally signing my PDF, I managed to complete all
of my possible challenges, but that doesn't mean that the road to get here was as painless
as what you just saw. - I've had a very frustrating issue where any amount of Windows movement, especially if I dare to have
an even low-performance game like "FTL" running, will be very laggy. I've had a few fixes suggested to me that maybe helped a little bit. I can't really tell. None of them have fully
solved the problem. I could distro hop and try something else, but I'm hesitant to do that, even if it would solve the problem, as that means a lot of
additional work just to get caught up to where I am now, and it's possible other
things will break anyways. - Meanwhile, on Manjaro KDE, I've had a relatively smooth experience. I do have little complaints like that the show desktop button doesn't
actually minimize anything, and as soon as you grab
a focus application, everything comes ripping
back onto the screen, or that the application
labels are underneath the window previews when you
cycle through with Alt + Tab, making them harder to read. But overall, if all I needed
to do was run a web browser, do some basic word processing, I wouldn't have anything
to complain about. Installing and managing
applications, on the other hand, has made me wish that my Pop!_OS experience
hadn't been so discouraging. Manjaro has a graphical
package manager called Pamac that allows applications to be installed in a couple of clicks, but by default, it contains only some
of the things I need. It can be unlocked to search for Flatpak, Snap, and AUR packages which dramatically
increases its usefulness, but, if this Manjaro
developer is to be believed, these non-official sources
can result in downtime. And if they do, everything
is working as intended. Fortunately, I haven't
really encountered that yet, though I have only been
at it for a few weeks, but it's this kind of
hit-or-miss functionality that has turned using my computer from something that I do for fun into something that feels more like work. Okay. Here's one. Miraculously, the Browser Source Plugin that I needed for OBS
was available in Pamac through the Arch User Repository. But the thing is, I ended
up only stumbling upon that by finding a post referring to it as I was fighting my
way through attempting to manually copy the plugin files into the appropriate system folders, which, in fairness to me, was based on a guide I found and actually got me really close. I was able to launch OBS, but as soon as I tried to
actually use that source, it would crash. Now, I understand that this
is totally a power user thing to do, but it's also absolutely
something that a gamer, particularly a game streamer, might need. - I wasn't able to install
the Browser Source Plugin as easily as Linus was. I did figure out how to
get it to work eventually, but in the hardest way possible because using my Windows brain, I installed OBS by following
the commands on their website, rather than using my
distro's package manager. If I had actually started with that, the main OBS install
would have just included the Browser Source Plugin to begin with. Ah. In my opinion, it's an
unintuitive user experience to not include the Browser
Source Plugin by default for all the main ways of acquiring OBS. People who've been using
this thing for years. It's in there by default on Windows. It is buried under the
build instructions tab, but come on. - Honestly, some of my dumbest
problems have been caused by my default file manager, Dolphin. Among other things, it
does not allow the user to copy anything into a folder that requires administrative privileges, with no obvious way to
override it in the GUI. And I've run into this twice so far. Adding insult to injury, the community responses to this
user who shared my concern, that not everyone wants to
copy files using the terminal and that Linux should allow the user to do what they want to
do with their computer, were some of the most
painfully condescending and stubborn things that
I've had the displeasure of reading throughout this challenge. Now, I lost my link to
the tweet, unfortunately, but I saw an interesting
criticism of this series that basically accused me and Luke of intentionally
smearing Linux and its developers because we were gonna come into this with a basic Windows gamer perspective and try to do things the
way that they do things. Well, newsflash, guys, that's most people. And if you legitimately,
like, in your heart of hearts, want Linux desktop to grow, you need to accommodate those people. So you can sit there and
go, "Am I out of touch? No, it's the users who are wrong." But you're literally a meme at that point. The only question is whether
you're self-aware or not. - Well, that depends. I strongly believe that enthusiast distros for advanced users should stay advanced. There is immense raw potential
and an unfettered experience. It is important for new users wishing to eventually achieve mastery of a system and for current masters of that system to be afforded full
control and responsibility in order to maximize their ability to learn, grow, and realize potential. That being said, not everything
fits under that umbrella. There are distros out there more for gamers or inexperienced users. So for those systems, we really hope that there's a lot of good that can come from us doing this. We also don't want to paint
everyone in the Linux community with the same brush because
it's a diverse bunch of people with a wide range of
experience with Linux. People like Wendell from Level1Techs, Jason Evangelho from Linux For
Everyone, and Gardner Bryant from Gardner Bryant
(laughs) have been inviting and supportive, not just to us, but to fans of the channel
following in our footsteps, which is super cool, but. - Something that the good eggs in the Linux community you
need to understand, though, is that you guys are great, and there's lots of you. It's just that it only takes a couple of toxic gatekeepers to turn people off. Like, you gotta remember, it's not always easy
for people to reach out and ask for help. And if a literal developer of their distro goes out of their way to type extra unnecessary
words to be condescending when they could have just pointed the user to the resources that they needed, it is extremely damaging to the good work that the majority is trying to do. And there has been so
much of that good work on display throughout this project. I mean, getting my Windows VM, which I've only ended up needing to ingest some audio using
Rode's weird, unnecessary utility and to configure my audio interface, was kind of a nightmare. Between incomplete guides,
meaningless error messages, accidentally installing
a version of VirtualBox that was made for the wrong
version of the Linux kernel, and needing to enable an
additional BIOS option that it didn't tell me I needed, it took me literally hours, but I got there. And it's worth noting that
it can be a real hassle to set up a VM on Windows too, especially for an inexperienced user. And hey, at least on Linux, it's incredibly powerful and it's free. Now, there's a lot more
that I could say right now, but I feel like most
of it is better suited for the upcoming parts where
we focus on game compatibility and performance and our
overall conclusions. So I will see you there. Thanks to NZXT for
sponsoring today's video. With NZXT BLD, getting a custom-built
PC is easier than ever. Just set your budget, see
how your PC will perform in your favorite games, and BLD takes care of the rest. Their recommendation engine
provides benchmark data for the expected performance of your build at 1080p and 1440p, and their FPS estimates are guaranteed to be within 10% accurate. You can customize and upgrade your build from various NZXT case options with RGB lighting and all that good stuff. They feature transparent pricing with a flat $99 assembly
fee in your local currency, and it will be built and shipped
within 48 business hours. With all your PC's components covered under one warranty plan, NZXT will manage any problems you have, and you can contact their live chat for real-time help in troubleshooting. So go check them out. They've got 13 years of experience
developing PC components, and we're gonna have them
linked in the video description. If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe go check out one
of the previous parts. It is a heck of a ride, this whole series. It's been a lot of work, but
it's also been a lot of fun.