In May of 1992, the Space Shuttle 
Endeavour launched to low earth   orbit on its very first flight. That first 
mission was a big one: the crew captured a   wayward communications satellite stuck in 
the wrong orbit, attached a rocket stage,   and launched it back into space in time to 
help broadcast the Barcelona Summer Olympics. Endeavour went on to fly 25 missions, spending 
nearly a year total in space and completing   4,671 trips around the earth. But even though 
the orbiter was decommissioned after its final   launch in 2011, it had one more mission to 
complete: a 12 mile (or 19 kilometer) trip   through the streets of Los Angeles to be 
displayed in the California Science Center.   Endeavour’s 26th mission was a lot slower and 
a lot shorter than the previous 25, but it was   still full of fascinating engineering challenges. 
This October marks the 10 year anniversary of the   nearly 3-day trip, so let’s reminisce on this 
incredible feat and dive into what it took to   get the orbiter safely to its final home. I’m 
Grady, and this is Practical Engineering. On   today’s episode, we’re talking about the 
Space Shuttle Endeavor Transport project. This episode is sponsored by 
Henson Shaving. More on them later. As midnight approached on October 11, 2012 the 
Space Shuttle Endeavour began its harrowing   (if somewhat sluggish) journey from LAX airport 
to the California Science Center near downtown   LA. Although Endeavour traveled into space 
25 times, launched a number of satellites,   visited Mir, helped assemble the International 
Space Station, and even repaired the Hubble   Telescope, it was never designed to navigate 
the busy streets of an urban area. But,   despite spending so much of its career nearly 
weightless, it was too heavy for a helicopter,   and it couldn’t be dismantled without 
causing permanent damage to the heat tiles,   so the Science Center decided to foot the roughly 
$10 million it would take to move the shuttle   overland. The chilly late night departure from 
the hangar at LAX was the start of the transport,   but Endeavour’s journey to Exposition Park 
really started more than a year beforehand. In April 2011, NASA awarded Endeavour to the 
California Science Center, one of only four sites   to receive a retired shuttle. The application 
process leading up to the award and the planning   and engineering that quickly followed were 
largely an exercise in logistics. You see,   Endeavor is about 122 feet (37 meters) 
long with a 78 foot (24 meter) wingspan,   and with 58 feet (18 meters) to the top of 
the vertical stabilizer during transport.   It also weighs a lot, around 180,000 pounds 
(80,000 kg), about as much as a large aircraft.   Transporting the shuttle through Los Angeles 
would not be a simple feat. So, the Science   Center worked with a number of engineering 
firms in addition to their heavy transport   contractor (many of whom offered their services 
pro bono) to carefully plan the operation. The most critical decision to be made was what 
route Endeavor would take through the streets of   LA. The Shuttle couldn’t fit through an underpass, 
which meant it would have to go over the 405, the   only major freeway along its path. It also would 
face nearly countless obstacles on its journey,   including trees, signs, traffic signals, and 
buildings. 78 feet is wider than most two-lane   city streets, and there are a lot of paths in 
Los Angeles that a Space Shuttle could never   traverse. And this isn’t a sleepy part of the 
city either. Exposition Park and the Science   Center are just outside downtown Los Angeles. The 
engineering team looked at numerous routes to get   the Shuttle to its destination, evaluating 
the obstacles along the way. They ultimately   settled on a 12 mile (or 19 kilometer) path that 
would pass through Inglewood and Leimert Park. On the NASA side, they had been stripping the 
Shuttle of the toxic and combustible fuel system   used for the reaction control thrusters and 
explosive devices like hatch covers to make   the vehicle safe for display at a museum. With 
Endeavor attached to the top of a 747 jet,   NASA made a series of low altitude flyovers 
around California to celebrate the shuttle’s   accomplishments and retirement before 
landing and offloading the vehicle at LAX,   a short distance but a long journey away from its   final destination. Three weeks later, 
the last leg of that journey began. For its ride, the shuttle would sit 
on top of the Overland Transporter,   a massive steel contraption built by NASA in 
the 1970s to move shuttles between Palmdale   and Edwards Air Force Base. Even though 
it was designed for the shuttle program,   this was Endeavour’s first ride on the platform. 
Before this move, the transporter had been parked   in the desert for the last 30 years since the 
last shuttle was assembled in Palmdale in 1985.   Just like the Shuttle Carrier Aircraft, a modified 
Boeing 747 that ferried the shuttles on its back,   and the main fuel tank that attached to the 
orbiter during launch, the overland transporter   used ball mounts that fit into sockets on the 
shuttle’s underside (two aft and one forward).   The contractor used four Self-Propelled Modular 
Transporters (or SPMTs) to support and move   the shuttle. These heavy haul platforms have a 
series of axles and wheels, all of which can be   individually controlled to steer left or right, 
crab sideways, or even rotate in place (all of   which were needed to get this enormous spaceship 
through the narrow city streets). The SPMTs used   for the Endeavour transport also included 
a hydraulic suspension that could raise or   lower the Shuttle to keep it balanced on uneven 
ground and help avoid obstacles. Each of the four   SPMTs could be electronically linked to work 
together as a single vehicle. An operator with   a joystick walked alongside the whole assembly, 
controlling the move with the help of a team of   spotters all around the vehicle. And yes, it was 
slow enough to walk next to it the entire trip. About 6 hours into the move, the Shuttle 
pulled up to the shopping center at La   Tijera and Sepulveda Eastway, the first of 
several stops to allow the public a chance to   see the spectacle while also giving crews time 
to coordinate ahead of the move. Huge crowds   gathered all along the route during the move, 
especially at these pre-planned stops. In fact,   the transport project may be one of the 
most recorded events in LA history, a fact   I’m sure gave a little bit of trepidation to the 
engineers and contractors involved in the project. Even though this move was pretty unique, 
super heavy transport projects aren’t   unusual. We move big stuff along public 
roadways pretty regularly when loads are   quote-unquote “non-divisible” and other modes 
of transportation aren’t feasible. I won’t go   into a full engineering lesson on roadway load 
limits here, but I’ll give you a flavor of what’s   involved. Every area of pavement sustains a 
minute amount of damage every time a vehicle   drives over. Just like bending a paperclip 
over and over eventually causes it to break,   even small deflections in asphalt and concrete 
pavements eventually cause them to deteriorate.   Those tiny damages add up over time, but some 
are more tiny than others. As you might expect,   the magnitude of that damage is proportional 
to the weight of the vehicle. But, it’s not a   linear relationship. The most widely used road 
design methodology estimates that the damage   caused to a pavement is roughly proportional 
to the axle load raised to the power of 4.   That means it would take thousands of passenger 
vehicles to create the same amount of damage   to the pavement as a single fully-loaded semi 
truck. And it’s not just pavement. Heavy vehicles   can cause embankments to fail and underground 
utilities like sewer and water lines to collapse. Because heavy vehicles wear out roadways so 
quickly, states have load limits on trucks   to try and maintain some balance between the 
benefits of the roadway to commerce and the   cost of maintenance and replacement. If you want 
to exceed that limit, you have to get a permit,   which can be a pretty straightforward process 
in some cases, or can require you to do detailed   engineering analysis in others. Of course, 
nearly every state in the US has different rules,   and even cities and counties within the states 
can have requirements for overweight vehicles.   Most states also have exemptions to load limits 
for certain industries like agricultural products   and construction equipment. But, curiously, no 
state has an exemption for space shuttles. So,   in addition to picking a route 
through which the orbiter could fit,   a big part of the Endeavor transport project 
involved making sure the weight of the shuttle   plus the transporter plus the STMPs wouldn’t 
seriously damage the infrastructure along the   way. The engineering team prepared detailed 
maps of all the underground utilities that   could be damaged or crushed by the weight of 
the orbiter, and roughly 2,700 steel plates   borrowed from as far as Nevada and Arizona were 
placed along the route to distribute the load. Another place where Endeavour’s weight was a 
concern was the West Manchester Boulevard bridge   over the 405. Around 6:30 PM, 19 hours into the 
move, Endeavour pulled up to the renowned Randy’s   Donuts, its astronomically large donut a perfect 
prop for photos of such an enormous spacecraft.   Photographers had a heyday, and they had time 
to line up their shots perfectly because there   was plenty of work to be done to prepare for the 
next leg. The shuttle’s permit wouldn’t allow it   to be carried over the bridge using the four heavy 
SPMTs. Instead, they would have to lift it off the   transporters and lower it onto a lightweight dolly 
to get over the 405. The SPMTs were sent over   the bridge one at a time ahead of the shuttle. 
Then, longtime donor and Science Center partner,   Toyota, got a chance to shine. The dolly 
was attached to a stock Toyota Tundra pickup   truck that slowly pulled the shuttle across the 
bridge. Toyota got a nice commercial out of it,   and that pickup still sits outside the Science 
Center as part of a demonstration about leverage   (although sadly, it was broken when I was 
there). By midnight, the shuttle was over   the bridge and crews were working to reconnect 
the SPMTs so that the journey could continue. Through the night, Endeavour continued its trip 
eastward, passing the Inglewood City Hall. By 9:30   the next morning, the shuttle had reached its next 
stop, The Forum arena, where it was greeted by a   marching band and speeches by former astronauts. 
But even though the shuttle was stopped,   the crews supporting the move (both ahead of and 
behind the orbiter) continued working diligently.   During preparation for the move, the engineers 
in charge had used a mobile laser-scanner along   the route to create a 3D point cloud of everything 
that could be in the way. Rather than use crews of   surveyors to walk the route and document potential 
collision points, which would have taken months,   they used a digital model of the shuttle to 
perform clash detection on a computer. This effort   allowed the engineering team to optimize the path 
of the shuttle and avoid as many traffic signals,   light poles, street signs, and parking meters as 
possible. In some cases, the Shuttle would have   to waggle down the street to clear impediments on 
either side, sometimes with inches to spare. The   collision detection also helped engineers create 
a list of all the facilities that would need to be   temporarily removed along the way by the Shuttle 
delivery team. Armies of workers ahead of the move   used that list to dismantle and lay obstacles 
down, and armies of workers behind the move   could immediately reassemble them to minimize 
disruptions, outages, and street closures. By around noon on Saturday (36 hours into the 
move), the Shuttle had reached one of the most   challenging parts of the route: Crenshaw Drive. 
This narrow path has apartment buildings tight to   the street, narrow straights for an overland space 
shuttle. Endeavour’s next stop was scheduled for   2PM at Baldwin Hills Crenshaw Plaza, only 
about 3 miles or 5 kilometers away. But,   as the shuttle continued its northward crawl, 
it encountered several unexpected obstacles,   mainly tree branches that had been 
assumed to be out of the way. By 5PM,   the shuttle was still well south of the party 
as chainsaw crews worked to clear the path,   but event organizers decided to go ahead 
with the performances. The Mayor took the   stage to welcome Endeavour to Los Angeles, 
but the shuttle was still too far to be seen. Later that night, Endeavour finally made 
the difficult turn onto Martin Luther   King Jr. Boulevard for its final eastward 
trek, dodging trees all along the way. The trees were probably the most controversial 
part of the entire shuttle move project,   with around 400 needing to be cut down along 
the route (often in the median between travel   lanes). Many in the affected communities 
felt that having a space shuttle in their   science museum wasn’t worth the cost of those 
trees, several of which were decades old. To   try and make up for the loss, the Science 
Center pledged to replace all the trees   that were removed two-to-one and committed to 
maintain the new trees for at least two years,   all at a cost of about $2 million. But the 
tall pines along MLK Boulevard were planted   in honor of the famed civil rights leader 
and deemed too important to remove. Instead,   the shuttle zigzagged its way between the 
trees on its way to the Science Center. Endeavour continued inching eastward toward 
Exposition Park on the last leg of its journey,   facing a few delays from obstacles, 
plus a hydraulic leak on one SPMT. But,   by noon that Sunday, the shuttle was making 
its turn into Exposition Park to a crowd of   cheering spectators. It hadn’t hit a 
single object along the way. With an   average speed of about 2 miles or 3 kilometers 
per hour, on par with the rest of LA’s traffic,   the orbiter was nearing the end of its 
voyage and achieving the dream of any   multi-million dollar engineering project: 
to come in only 15 hours behind schedule. By the end of the day on Sunday,   the shuttle was safely inside its new 
home at the California Science Center. It took only a few weeks for the center to open 
the space to the public, and 10 years later,   you can still go visit Endeavour today (and 
you should!). Here’s a dimly lit picture of   the channel’s editor (and my best friend) Wesley 
and me visiting in 2018. The shuttle sits on top   of four seismic isolators on pipe support columns 
so that it can move freely during an earthquake.   But the current building is only meant to be 
temporary. The Shuttle’s final resting place,   the Samuel Oschin Air and Space Center, 
broke ground earlier this year. Eventually,   Endeavour will be moved the short 
distance and placed vertically,   poised for launch complete with boosters 
and main fuel tank in celebration of all   26 of its missions: 25 into space and 
1 through the streets of Los Angeles. Just like the incredibly tight tolerances 
required to transport Endeavour through   congested urban areas, my sponsor Henson Shaving 
makes a razor that exposes the blade by less than   the thickness of a human hair. They offered 
to sponsor an episode. I said send me a razor,   I’ll try it out and then decide. Well it’s been a 
month now, and I’m pretty sure I’ll never go back   to my plastic 3-blade disposable cartridges. 
I always thought that safety razors were old   school technology, but this thing feels like 
it came off the shelf of a high-end aerospace   manufacturing facility… that’s because it 
did. Before they made razors, Henson built   parts for the Mars Rover and ISS. Through their 
research, they found that one of the key aspects   to a good shave is supporting the blade across 
its width, something that cartridge razors don’t   do. I also thought using a safety razor would 
come with a learning curve. Not true. In fact,   I found the Henson razor simpler to use than 
a cartridge because you have two sides, and   the razor has these channels that make it easy to 
rinse out. And it uses these standardized blades   that are super cheap and easy to find. If you’ve 
used any kind of high-quality tool before, you   know how nice it feels. This is seriously worth a 
try if you want to upgrade your shaving experience   and it makes a perfect gift too. If you visit the 
link below and use the code PracticalEngineering   at checkout, it will not only help support the 
channel, it’s going to get you a free 100 pack   of blades with the purchase of a razor. Feel 
like an astronaut while you shave. Again, use   code PracticalEngineering at the link below. Thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think.