- Welcome my friends to
a very special episode of BROKE vs PRO. As you can see our fine
sponsor Micro Center is currently undergoing a
massive amount of construction so much so that I've got myself lost in this store twice already this morning, but we have a simple challenge. Today, I am going to be
building a gaming laptop setup to go head to head with none other than Mr. Ken Bolido's gaming desktop. Wait till you see the end of
this video what I got planned. All right, I've already scouted it out. I know exactly where I'm going. - [Ken] All right, show me. - I am feeling confident because after the last couple of times where there were some, some shenanigans, when it came to the judging. (beep) - I'm giving this one to Austin. - Yes. BROKE vs PRO champion of the world. - You act like you've been there before. I'm giving this one to Ken now. - I have a foolproof plan, thanks to our kind
sponsors at Micro Center. The Micro Center Platinum Collection. Ken, do you know what the Micro Center
PLATINUM COLLECTION is? My secret weapon. Ryzen 5 5800H, we've got
16 gigs of RAM, 512 SSD and a 3050 Ti with 144 Hz Display. - You mean to tell me that he's
just getting a laptop really for BROKE vs PRO. You have to shop through Micro
Center like that from now on. And now it is my turn. Austin might have the Micro
Center PLATINUM COLLECTION, but I might have something up my sleeve. Maybe this is the episode
where I actually try to up you in value at least a little bit. - [Austin] Price performance? - Maybe? Maybe? - [Austin] I would recommend
a Core i9. This is- - [Ken] No, no. You know what- - [Austin] A 100% ROI on that. - I'm going to start my
build with the Ryzen 5 5600H. - [Austin] Wow. So revolutionary Ken. No one's ever used a
Ryzen 5 in a build before. - So what Ken doesn't realize right now is that there is a very affordably priced, 11th gen Core i5 11400, which- - [Ken] 11400? Really? Cool. Let's go. - [Austin] Oh, no. What are you doing? No. - I don't know if Austin
knows how sound works, but he just went to the next
aisle and started spewing out some secrets that he probably
shouldn't have told me. It's kinda crazy that he shills
Micro Center to the point where he actually just
helps the competition, but a W is a W. Alright, well, I hope it's a W. That's a whole $100 cheaper and save $20 with an eligible motherboard. Oooh. - [Austin] Motherboards you
say, I happen to see a few of... Why am I helping you? - Look, the Micro Center
shill will always shill inside the store too. You're gonna give me the best
deal because that's your job. - [Austin] (laughs) - Austin keeps going on and on and on about this Micro Center
PLATINUM COLLECTION with its awesome line of laptops. So I'm gonna make my own,
make my own collection, the KEN COLLECTION. B4, that's a really cheap board. - [Austin] That seems like a
perfectly reasonable choice. - $109 is in my strike zone. - [Austin] Actually, that's (indistinct). - I think the KEN COLLECTION
needs a little bit of brand consistency and
it just so happens that Micro Center has MSI cases as well. So if I have an MSI board, I
might as well get an MSI case. What else does MSI sell? - [Austin] A power splice? - Look at you. - [Austin] I can't help
myself, I'm being helpful. - 650 watts should
probably do me good. Right? The KEN COLLECTION endorses mystic light, the best RGB solution
for your PC (indistinct). - [Austin] The KEN COLLECTION seems like you just saw the MSI badge
and just bought everything. And then you're like, cool I'm done. - Look, the KEN COLLECTION
is very different from the collection
that Ken actually wants. The KEN COLLECTION is things
that everyone can afford. And the thing that Ken wants is just what's the most expensive thing. Sort lists of products by most expensive. - [Austin] This is branding
makes no common sense. - I'll figure it out and post. - [Austin] Josh is just
gonna go select all and delete your entire section. - Probably will actually.
This is probably gonna be like two seconds. - [Austin] It should be two seconds- - Josh is probably gonna cut me mid- All right. So I have the KEN
COLLECTION of PC goodies. Oh, this doesn't count in
the budget, but I bought us. - [Austin] Wait, what? Go ahead. - I bought us a label
maker for the office. - [Austin] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. This doesn't count towards your budget. What do you need a label maker for? Oh God. Do I need to ask? Are you making KEN COLLECTION stickers? - Actually. Yeah. What else would I- - [Austin] How much was the label maker? This goes against your budget. Whoa, what does that sticker say? $49.99. You just crushed off the $100 mark. Well, Micro Center has great deals, but they're not that great - Are you gonna tell them that or is that gonna make
it in the video, Austin? - [Austin] That Micro
Center has excellent deals, but not a $100 off. - I heard Micro Centers is not back great, is what I heard from- - [Austin] Whoa, whoa, whoa,
selective hearing friend. - That is very vertical. - [Austin] That is very
vertical. That's a weird shape, but that actually is pretty cool. - [Ken] I don't hate it. - [Austin] Yeah. I hate it. It's terrible. It's not as good as my laptop. - You haven't even opened your laptop yet. Let's see, what should I
start with the motherboard because why not? - [Austin] Because you watched our 2021 gaming PC build tutorial. - [Ken] No, I'm not (indistinct). - [Austin] Whoa. Wow. Have you ever seen a
motherboard board before? So this is where you put your CPU. - No, Austin. I've seen
a motherboard before. This is really odd though. - [Austin] Hey Ken? - Yeah. - [Austin] There's one very key difference between Anton and AMD processors. Do you know what it is? - Oh, you have to shave
off the pins. (laughs) - [Austin] Jared approves of this. Ken, you spend too much time on Tik Tok? Ah, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. - [Ken] What? What? I'm doing right. - [Austin] That's (indistinct)
aggressive my friend. Are you sure that's safe? I don't know. - Arrow. Arrow. It's right there. So just put this down, right? And then boom. And this
thing will pop off. Right? That's very tight, whoa.
Wow, maybe I did that wrong or right. We'll find out. - [Austin] So much confidence, man. - The next thing I gotta install
the power supply and then- - [Austin] Knock, knock. The
secret weapon is here, friends. This is exactly what I need to complete my ultimate gaming setup. If you recall there was an
episode of BROKE vs PRO last year where Ken built a set up in a box. Well today, I've got a better box. I may or may not be recycling
this from my setup last time on BROKE vs PRO. I'm gonna use it as an F1 cockpit. - [Ken] Wait, this was my setup. - No, I used it last time. This is where I built
my setup on last time. - [Ken] But it was for my monitor. (upbeat music) - So I'm going to start painting. - [Ken] Oh, we're going
to be here all day. Oh, my God. You're not
even masking anything. - [Austin] What's- - [Ken] Dude, you just put
paint on the edge, dude. (upbeat music) - Welcome my friends to the judging day, of BROKE vs PRO aka the day
that Austin redeems himself from the tragedy that
was the last episode. - Are you proud of this paint job? - Absolutely. It's the best
paint job I've ever had. Whoa, whoa, no, no, no. Okay, okay. Look, I was trying to be
environmentally friendly and only use the amount
of paint that I needed to. So we're just gonna put
this right back here. - I understand the whole painting one side because you're lazy, but
I'm getting confused, if you're going for the whole
Formula One NASCAR theme, I see you have one number on this side, which is your actual
number for the race. Right? There's a completely
different number over here. - Wait, what? - Yeah. - I didn't do that one. - Well, that's my point. So now we're confusing
the judges, the fans. - [Austin] When it was shipped
here, someone wrote 606 on- - Right. So if I'm rooting for
my favorite race car driver, am I rooting for 606 or
am I rooting for 3303? - The fans are gonna
have an identity crisis. We can't have that. - One of the other things
that's kinda bugging me is that this has wings. So this is more of a flight (indistinct)- - But usually- - If you had rotated this, before we drop everything on you. - Oh. - I feel like that right there- - But that doesn't count
though because you helped him. - What laptop do we have here? - So this is the ASUS TUF A15
from the PLATINUM COLLECTION. Our fine sponsors of Micro
Center have graciously provided the world with a high quality laptop for your gaming pleasure. - Now, I actually do really like this. It's gamery, but it's toned down. I don't like it when it's
like in your face gamery. This looks really good. - All right. So we have the KEN COLLECTION of fine PC parts and accessories. - So this is- - Are you okay dude? - I get what you were going with here, but I am going to dock you
points because this looks ugly. - What are you talking about? - This is not aesthetic.
Here and here and then here. - What? - And at the bottom of the keyboard. - Yeah. - All right. I do like the
inside. It's nice and minimal. I like the subtle blue. Again, I'm not a huge fan of rainbow RGB. I know that's unpopular. Hey, I'm the judge, you're not so. I can't help, but notice
that you somehow managed to get the fan header cable
stuck in front of your P2- - What? - Yeah. - Wait. Really? - Oh, what's that? - So- - Oh, wow. - Oh, we'll just- - No, no, no, no. We have
to let that stay there for when we get in (indistinct). - I did not see that at all. - Hang up. Judge, can I
just point to something? - Yeah, what do we got? - Look at the orientation
of those two fans on the AO and how one is push and one is pull. - [Ken] What? - [Matt] Whoa, whoa,
wait a minute. Oh wait. - [Austin] I'm no PC expert.
That seems (indistinct) - [Ken] I was in a little bit
of a rush here (indistinct). - [Matt] What we're gonna do
is you two are gonna game. - Yeah. - Yup. - Then we're gonna take
your (indistinct) scores, your three mark scores. And then I'm gonna judge you on the aesthetic and creativity. - Best of luck. Best
of luck. Best of luck. - Look, I'm just out
here, if I win, I win. If I lose, I lose. We all know where this is gonna go. I mean the graphics card,
we know where it's gonna go, but I know where the rest
of the piece is gonna go. And so either way I feel
like I won. Are you okay? - Yep. I'm fine. I'm just preparing the winning system. - [Ken] Whoa. Okay. - [Austin] Look at that
sweet 170 frames per second. - [Ken] 200 And something. - Wow. This screen is high quality. All right. All right. I gotta just be nice and calm here. Nice, calm, and collected. - All right. Let's go. Oh, come on. Yes. Oh God, there's another one. - Oh, what the hell? What the hell? - Oh. Well, at least I'm
on a second on the board, so I mean we're good. Oh, let's go. Okay. - I'm three on four right now. - Shots coming back. Okay. We're good. What's great is that I
think my MMR is still higher than Austin's so I'm like- - No. - Oh, I just shot Austin. Hell, yeah. And as per usual, I shot him in the back. It's the only way to do it. Let's go. Yo, I'm wrecking
right now. (laugh) All right. Well, that was a
good streak though. I'll take. - I will say my arm positioning
for the mouse and keyboard. Not great. I'm a little high for
(indistinct). That's fine. - I can say that I'm very ergonomic here. Even though I'm sitting on a bar stool. My back definitely isn't
happy right now, but okay. - I'm just dying a lot. - What's the... Okay,
back to (indistinct). Okay. Well we're all doing bad, but Austin's doing worse
and that's all that matters. - How the (inaudible) Bro, we gotta do this again. - Oh - Was that you? Was that you? - That was me. You killed me. - I got you. - I got Ken. I got Ken. - Oh no, I lost. Well, I won against Austin,
but I lost the match. - I lost everything. - I got 36 Kills. - Oh look, the game's over. I can't see how many kills I
got. It was almost 36, I think. - Well, how much was it? Because it does tell you at the end. - 10. - So I'm three times better than Austin. - So, with how bad you just got beat, I'm gonna go ahead and say, you need to beat Ken by a
minimum of three seconds in F1. - So Ken's gotten off to a lead and he's blown the apex by a mile. - Oh my God. I can't- - [Austin] Oh, I'm stalking him right now. I'm just sizing him up, waiting for him to miss
another apex like that. Because you are leaving me
behind a little bit right now. - Yeah, I know. Because
now that I have my bearings and know what's going
on, I'm driving better. - This is very bad. Oh God. Oh God. I
spotted 20 miles an hour. Oh yeah. Thanks Jerry. Yeah,
this feels very accurate. Oh, (indistinct) I just
pulled a half a second on you. I'm catching back up. All right. It's the last lap. I'm still only a second
behind you right now, but I need you to make a mistake. - (indistinct) You're like 1.2,
what are you talking about? Oh, this is not a good line. - No, no. - Yellow flag, Let's go.
Yellow flag. Boys let's go. - Okay, fine. I'll give you the gaming
section. I will concede that, but price performance, creativity, I might still have a shot here. - So, we have our results in. You got destroyed in the gaming section. I don't feel like we need
to spend a whole lot of time talking about how you got
destroyed in the gaming section. - No, we're good. - Ken, you destroyed Austin
in the gaming section. We really don't need to go into
too much detail about badly- - I agree. I definitely destroyed
him in the gaming session. - So next up we have price to performance. So the formula that we use
for price to performance is we take GPU scores,
we take the CPU scores, we add them together. We divide them by the cost of the systems. Austin, you had a total of 18,728. Ken, you had a total of 18,366. And because yours was a cheaper
overall system at $1,112, you have a score of 16.8. - Wait, how much was my build? - Ken your build was a total of $1,483. - Wow. - So your score was 12.3.
This was very close, but the point goes to Austin on this one. - I'll give that to him. - So, we have aesthetics. I love laptops, everything like that. Look, I gotta be real. Ken, I'm sorry. - What? - But, if Austin had done
this from the beginning, instead of having me fix his crappy setup, I would have given him the point. But because he didn't,
I'm giving you the point. - Yeah. Let's go. - What? Wait. What? - Yeah, because he made
years better with the- - This looks great. - Matt's edition looked really good. - If you had done this from the beginning, I would have given you the point. - So, I only lost because this was rotated in a slightly different orientation. - Yeah. It's all about creativity and you didn't have the creativity to wrote it rotate it 90 degrees. - But his fans were upside down. - It doesn't matter. - But I can't see that. - It's true. - And I don't know shit about fans. - At this point, I should
have won three BROKE vs PRO in a row. And each one of them keeps
getting stolen away from me. It's almost like if there's collusion. I felt good about this one. I
thought it was going to win. How could I lose with the power
of my Micro Center mousepad? Like this is all I really needed. This is humiliating. - Now it's approved. - Well, if you feel like
you should've just put it. - Oh yeah. - Because Ken made you
his (indistinct) today. - Wow (laughs) - Thank you very much
for watching this episode of BROKE vs PRO. If you excuse me, well,
you know where to find me. I'll just be here. Thank you very much for
watching this episode of BROKE vs PRO. Make sure to check out our fine sponsor, Micro Center, the links in the description where they sell many things
that are not the KEN COLLECTION. Speaking of our fine
sponsors at MICRO CENTER, they have a truly incredible
deal going on right now for new customers only. If you sign up at the
link in the description, you can get yourself a
free 240 gigabyte SSD. Yes, friends. You've heard that, right? A free 240 gigabyte SSD. What are you waiting for. Make sure to subscribe and
ringling the dingling button for the next time that Ken
destroys me and Matt cheats, and I build something else,
which is questionably named. - You would have thought by now he would've picked a different judge.