Compared to the raging dumpster 
fire that was Evergrande,   the rise and struggle of Country 
Garden (碧桂園) has been more subtle. Like a whale, passing under a boat. 
Its founder is extremely low-key. Nevertheless, Country Garden blow-torched its 
way to be China's biggest real estate giant. Then in 2023, their fortunes reversed. In this 
video, we talk about China’s Country Garden. ## Beginnings Yang Guoqiang (楊國強) was born in 1955 amidst   poverty in Foshan City within 
southern Guangdong province. Until 1978, when Deng Xiaoping started opening 
up the country Yang worked as a simple farmhand,   plowing the fields. His biography 
- which he has often repeated in   interviews - claims that he did not 
own a pair of shoes until he was 18. In 1978, his brother brought him onto a local 
housing construction site. After that, Yang joined   a government-owned construction company - the 
Beijiao Economic Development Company of Shunde. Beijiao is a town in the district of Shunde, 
which in turn sits within Foshan City,   Guangdong Province. This agricultural town was 
once the smallest of smallest backwaters. But   today it hosts two of China's biggest companies 
- Country Garden and the appliance maker Midea. Eventually, Yang and a group of investors 
purchased the Economic Development Company during   a restructuring. Yang became its general manager - 
kind of like a CEO - and eventually its chairman. ## The Property Opportunity In 1988, China began a series of land reforms 
(关于在全国城镇分期分批推行住房制度改革的实施方案) that would forever   change the country's real estate industry. The overarching goal of these reforms were 
to encourage workers to buy and own their own   homes. Some of the measures included 
the privatization of public housing,   the commercialization of housing, and 
the development of a new housing sector. Yang - well-positioned as the head of a real 
estate company - quickly recognized the huge   opportunity that these reforms would create 
in the private housing market. So in 1992,   he merged Beijiao with two other companies 
to form a property development company. The next year 1993, the new 
company started to develop a   new community of high-end villas 
in Beijiao Town. The project was   named "Shunde Country Garden" or just 
"Country Garden". It quickly struggled. ## Real Estate Development
In my previous video on Evergrande, I neglected to give a detailed overview of 
how these real estate projects and their   pre-sales work. I certainly at first had no 
idea how they worked, especially in Asia. In the early 1990s, the Chinese government 
amended its laws to create the land sales system   that is so famous today. Local governments 
- unable to raise large sums of money for   development - are allowed to sell plots of 
land to real estate development companies. Now for the real estate development company buying 
the rights to that land - via bidding, listings,   or auction - they need to plan, design, and sell 
a project for them to make their investment back. The project could be one big building,   a bunch of small buildings, or an entire 
community with homes and all that. Real estate companies often 
have large "land banks",   which represents the parcels of land that the 
company can develop down the line. Investors   want to see companies with bigger land 
banks in valuable or up-and-coming cities. No matter what the project is, it is going 
to cost some money. So to fund the project,   the real estate development company 
sets up a sales office and pre-sells   units to the public. 90% of 
units in China are pre-sold. Once they pre-sell enough units, they 
can start construction. Construction   usually takes about 1-2 years. 
If the company is reputable,   then they are giving constant updates 
about the progress of the construction. If all goes well, then buyers get their 
homes. The real estate development company   might continue to generate revenues 
from these tenants through building   management services like security 
guards, maintenance, and what not. ## Success Factors The real estate development 
industry is incredibly competitive. You are building a very capital intensive thing, 
which means you want to construct it quickly,   sell it quickly, and get money back quickly. 
The stakes are high. The business owners   want their return on investment. The 
customers want their homes. And so on. To increase their projects' 
attractiveness to customers,   large development companies build entire 
communities - including schools, shops,   hotels, entertainment, and the 
like - with their own specialities. For instance, the giant Dalian Wanda builds 
big commercial real estate projects like   their Wanda Plazas. Wanda Plazas are 
full multifunctional complexes with   five star hotels, department stores, 
office buildings, and movie theaters. This full integration allows the company 
to capture more profits across the entire   value chain - something that is 
increasingly necessary as net   profit margins on the actual real estate 
development activity falls below 10%. ## The Country Garden Breakthrough
In line with this multi-functionality, we go back to Yang's first real 
estate project, Country Garden. The first phase launched in 1993 and Yang 
struggled to sell units for it amidst a difficult   housing market. Two of his shareholder partners 
in the project pull out. Desperate, Yang reaches   out to a Xinhua reporter named Wang Zhigang 
(碧桂園) for an article to promote his project. Wang went to the unfinished site, and 
tells Yang that if Country Garden wanted   to distinguish itself from the competition, then 
it can't just make "steel and concrete". Rather,   it needed to make a whole life style that 
its potential customers can aspire to. Yang was already mulling the idea 
of building and running a small   school as like an attached gym-type 
amenity. But Wang's suggestion hit   like lightning. Yang immediately hires 
Wang to master-plan Country Garden. Country Garden goes all-in to produce not 
only a high-class international private   school but also a five-star international club. 
Aware of the growing importance of education,   Wang positions this school as an absolute luxury. Thus in 1994, we have Guangdong Country Garden 
School - a posh boarding school that goes from   kindergarten to primary to junior high 
to senior high school. Dump the kid in   boarding school for 15 years and enjoy 
the international club. I see the appeal. The school was also one of the 
first schools in inland Guangdong   to offer IB (International Baccalaureate) classes,   and is located on a sprawling 200,000 square 
meter green campus. It looks very nice. In order to secure a spot at this top-ranked 
school, you need to pay $50,000 USD up front. The   families of 3,000 children in the rising Guangdong 
province signed up. And their deposits immediately   solved Country Garden's cash shortfall, anchored 
the community, and sparked the company's rise. The masterstroke established Wang's reputation   as a marketing guru and he worked 
for them for another three years. ## Rise and Rise Country Garden hit its stride 
with this lifestyle concept. That is reflected in their advertising slogan 
- "Giving you a five star home" (给你一个五星级的家). In 1995, Country Garden is the 
first company in the Chinese real   estate industry to introduce hotel-style 
concierge, 24-hour security, maintenance,   house keeping, and other such 
services to a residential area. Country Garden quickly found appeal 
with richer Hong Kongers looking for an   investment or second home in a more affordable 
inland area of Guangdong. Some 30,000 buy in,   and people nickname it the "Mini Hong Kong". In 1998, Country Garden moves out of its 
native Shunde District and starts building   their second massive project "Guangzhou 
Country Garden". In only its first month of   open pre-sales in 1999, Guangzhou Country 
Garden sells an astounding 3,000 units. The 1997 Asian Financial Crisis 
had caused many other real estate   developers in the mainland to hold 
back. But Yang boldly pushed forward,   borrowing large sums of money at crippling 
rates in order to buy more advertising. And so they build multiple "Country Gardens" each   year - including Phoenix City, which 
sold like gangbusters, and more. They don't build outside of the Guangdong 
province until 2006 when they debut Country   Garden Changsha Venice City (长沙碧桂园威尼斯城) in 
the Hunan Province. Opened in October 2006,   it is a Venetian-style water city on an island 
with hotels, schools, and business parks. Despite this, the company is not 
interested in simply just sticking   to luxury niches. Yang greatly admires 
Walmart and its founder Sam Walton's   "everyday low prices" motto. He wants to 
expand and go big as fast as possible. ## How Country Garden Competes
Yang has explained his business strategy for Country Garden - which has echoes 
of Walmart's - as the following: "Low-cost land, large-scale production,   and fast sales". Let us go 
through some of those one by one. Low-cost land. Walmart began its 
conquest of the American retail   market by targeting large suburban areas 
and small towns where the land was cheap. Country Garden would later do the same thing, 
pushing into China's second and third-tier   cities which are not as well developed 
as Shanghai or Beijing. For instance,   Foshan City, where it all began 
for them is a second tier city. And while the name of Guangzhou Country 
Garden Phoenix City (碧桂园 凤凰城) refers to   the Tier 1 City of Guangzhou, it is 
actually located in the suburb of   Zengcheng District (增城区) outside of the main city. As a result, Country Garden's cost of land 
acquisition for its projects is less than   10% of the total project budget. They 
can pass those costs on to the customer. Second is "large-scale production". One of 
Walmart's early differentiators was to build   in-house logistics and distribution systems 
to cut costs and offer the lowest prices. Country Garden decided to do something 
similar to squeeze costs out of every   part of their supply chain. Yang had 
visited Xiaomi's Lei Jun who told him   to go achieve as much scale as possible. The 
larger the scale, the greater the profits. For their 2001 project, 
Country Garden Phoenix City,   Country Garden not only constructed the 
project, but also designed, planned,   and managed it. They own their own factories 
to produce the glass, brick and decoration. And lastly, "fast sales". Walmart wants to 
make their cash back as fast as possible   to minimize their financial risks. Same with 
Country Garden. And it is their secret weapon. ## Speed Country Garden's competitors - Evergrande, 
Sunac, and the such - also go into tier-2,   tier-3 and tier-4 cities. They 
also have their own factories. What makes Country Garden different 
from those other guys is the brutal   speed with which they produce 
and develop projects. Typically,   it takes a Chinese real estate company about 
10 months to start getting cash back from its   projects. This makes it difficult for them to 
put more cash to the next project without debt. Country Garden is not satisfied with 
that. So they run what they call the   "567 method" - 5 months after launch to get 
the first sales, 6 months after launch to   recover all their invested capital, and then 7 
months after launch to start turning a profit. Other projects go even faster, running a 
"4568 method" - 4 months after launch to   sell the property; 5 months after 
launch to collect the payments;   6 months after launch for positive cash flow; and 
8 months to start reinvesting in other projects. For Country Garden, there is no such thing 
as a "fastest", only "faster". The company   invested in methods to speed up the construction 
process including automated mechanical production   and casting. Not to mention close interactions 
with the local government to speed up approvals. Even for the Chinese, this is crazy. You can 
speed up sales. You can make employees go hard   and work overtime. But you can't speed 
up the construction process at the risk   of causing quality defects and accidents. 
And accidents would later indeed happen. In a speech at the 2018 Boao Real Estate 
Forum (博鳌论坛), Ronnie Chan (陳啟宗), chairman   of the legendary Hong Kong real estate 
developer Hang Lung Properties, called   those running a "high turnover" model - perhaps 
a subtle reference to Country Garden - lunatics. But Yang has pushed ahead - seeing 
an opportunity to win China,   and even the world. Privately, 
Yang is said to have told his CFO: > "We acquire land at low cost, develop 
rapidly, ensure proper facilities,   and open at low prices... Such 
speed is unachievable by others,   such control is unattainable by others, 
but I, Yang Guoqiang, can achieve it" ## A Madman We should talk about Yang. His outward persona is 
that of an incredibly humble and low-key person. His autobiography which I just 
recounted earlier has Yang as this poor,   simple farmer who bumbled into fame 
and fortune through luck and hard   work. In the few interviews he gives, 
he continually sticks to this story. He has called himself the "stupidest man in 
the world". In front of government officials,   he is very low-key and self-effacing. 
He often claims to be a dumb farmer who   does not read often and does 
not understand many things. And indeed, he is easy to underestimate. His 
suits do not seem to fit him. He is balding,   got a crooked smile, and is not an 
attractive man by conventional measures. Unlike Evergrande's flamboyant founder and CEO, 
Xu Jiayin, who debuted flashy EV companies,   bought a soccer team, donated hundreds of 
millions of dollars to charity and so on,   Yang keeps it on the down-low. He too donates 
to charity, but again does it very quietly. But in 2018, there was this interesting 
book written by Country Garden's former   CFO and executive director Wu Jianbin (吴建斌). 
For 27 years, Wu worked at China Shipping - a   stodgy old company that keeps debt at just 20% - 
before joining Country Garden from 2014 to 2017. After leaving, Wu writes a book called "My 
1000 Days at Country Garden" (我在碧桂园的1000天). Country Garden immediately cracked down on 
the book, and Wu subsequently issued a public   statement saying that its plot was fiction. 
So take what follows with a grain of salt. Anyway, the Yang in Wu's book looks 
like a simple peasant on the outside; But on the inside he is a ruthless, 
relentless, ultra fast-paced Reddit degen. He has an incredible appetite for risk. 
As I mentioned, he dived into Hong Kong   despite the 1997 Financial Crisis. The book 
says that in 1995 he borrowed 20 million   RMB just for advertising, earning just 
10,000 RMB back in sales. A year later,   he borrows 50 million RMB, 
earning 100 million in sales. And he is a ferocious motivator of his 
subordinates. Wu once suggested a warrant   stock program so ordinary workers 
can get stock in the company. Yang   killed it on the spot, writing 
that human nature is "selfish". Yang prefers extreme incentive alignment. In 2012,   he allocated an unprecedented 20% of the whole 
company's after-tax profits for its top workers,   giving nothing to everyone else. He told 
his guys: "If you spend an extra RMB,   20 cents of that is yours, so calculate 
every expenditure and be careful" Wu describes one remarkable Sept 2014 event where 
Yang gave 200 million RMB or $28 million to just   37 regional presidents and project managers. 
Country Garden does not practice egalitarianism. This extreme incentive alignment goes both ways 
- stick and carrot. If the project manager opens   the project within 3 months after launch, 
they earn a 200,000 RMB bonus. 4 months,   they get nothing. 5 months, they get 
a fine. 7 months, they are fired. Remember. For other Chinese real estate companies,   10 months is average. 6 to 9 
months is said to be really good. Later on, he would also implement 
a project co-investment mechanism,   allowing managers to make money directly 
on Country Garden projects. This only   poured more gasoline on the raging fires 
inside these managers to push push push. All of these management systems are a little nuts. 
But Yang is relentless. The book has him saying: > "In the 1980s, some people likened me to 
a tiger leading a flock of sheep ... Now,   I am still a tiger, but leading a 
group of tigers. Think about it,   doesn't that make us invincible 
and unbeatable in every battle?!" In a rare moment of self-reflection, 
Yang says of himself: > "Frankly speaking, I am a person 
who does not play by the rules,   like a madman; think about it, I can 
hire 400 PhDs. I've already hired 200,   probably no other company in the world does 
this; under the current real estate environment,   I can instruct to buy another 300 plots of 
land, probably no one else in the country does; > The 'Achievement Sharing' ... (the 
aforementioned project co-investment   mechanism) that I decided to implement [is] 
beyond others' imagination; the 'Forest City'   I developed in Malaysia is something nobody would 
dare to conceive... I am a madman! A fanatic!" Yang is indeed, a madman. ## Going Public
In 2007, soon after their debut of Venice City, Country Garden goes public on 
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. In yet another unusual move, before the 
IPO Yang Guoqiang gave almost all of his   70% share stake to his second daughter 
Yang Huiyan - then just 25 years old. After graduating from Ohio 
State University - why no   Harvard? - she entered the company 
in 2005 as a purchasing manager. Ar the time of the IPO, Country Garden had 
a very complicated corporate structure. It is made of 41 separate on and 
offshore companies operating in   four major business segments - hotels, real 
estate management, real estate development,   and a catch-all called "theme 
parks/construction/decoration". On the first day of trading, the 
stock price surged 35% making the   second Yang daughter the richest 
woman in China with a $9 billion   fortune. Several other of Country Garden's 
co-founders became billionaires as well. The IPO's publicity and its $1.9 billion 
windfall marks a major change in pace and   strategy for the company. Prior to that, the 
company largely built and marketed in its core   market of Guangdong's Pearl River Delta. The 
real estate mix however then began to change. The company added millions of square meters of 
land, but only 17% of those acquisitions are   in its former core Guangdong province. That 
year, Country Garden adds 23 new projects,   entering provinces like Heilongjiang, 
Inner Mongolia, and Liaoning. ## The Financial Crisis Then came the 2008 Financial Crisis. Country Garden is hit hard. They were going to buy 
a stake in Hong Kong's dominant broadcaster - TVB   studios - owned by Run Run Shaw. It would 
have been an interesting diversification,   but Yang lost the $1 billion loan needed 
for the deal, and it fell through. Back on the mainland, the housing market 
slows down. Country Garden's stock price   falls about 90% from its Sept 2007 high of 
$13 HKD to just $1 HKD in November 2008. Construction on many Country Garden sites 
slows down. So the company announces a   "Year of Quality" (品质之年), where they 
consult with buyers for feedback. They   rebrand with a new logo, research 
new types of apartment layouts ... sell about $300-500 million in high yield bonds no 
big deal, and formulate a novel national strategy. Even with the pause, they still manage to 
launch 14 new projects in 2009. In late 2008,   China launches a massive fiscal stimulus that   supercharges Chinese investment and real 
estate prices across the whole country. Then in 2010, Country Garden appoints Mo 
Bin (莫斌) as its new president and executive   director. Mo Bin is an outsider - having worked 
in a number of real estate companies. He organizes   the company and begins hitting tier 3, 4, and 
5 cities under his "Rolls Royce" strategy. The Rolls Royce strategy believes that 
every city - no matter what tier - has   a small group of prosperous or rising local 
businessmen and corporate executives. Country   Garden wants to build the best houses within 
that local area and market to those guys. In 2011, they launch the Country Garden·Shili   Yintan (碧桂园·十里银滩) project in Guangdong. 
Its opening sales of half a billion USD   set a record for single-day sales 
in Chinese real estate history. In 2013, Country Garden ramped up 
sales again and hit 100 billion   RMB ($14 billion USD) for the year. 
Ladies and gentlemen, we are so back. ## Forest City The Yang in Wu's book mentioned 
the madness of doing Forest City. In 2012, Country Garden paid some $330 million for 
the rights to prime land in the Iskander Malaysia   area. It was the largest ever investment 
by a Mainland Chinese company in Malaysia. Their first project there launched in 2013, 
the Golden Bay Project in Johor Bahru,   which sold over a billion dollars of sales and 
made Country Garden the largest developer in   the country. A second project, a Spanish villa 
type thing called Diamond City, did well too. This led the way to their third and biggest 
project - Forest City. Kicked off in 2014,   Forest City spans over 1,300 hectares and 
is a complete integrated town capable of   housing thousands of people, just 
a few hundred yards from Singapore. Country Garden owns about 60% of the 
project. It includes a sports stadium,   golf hotel, marina hotel, and a golf course 
designed by legendary golfer Jack Nicklaus. The project caused a great deal of controversy. 
The company's fast moving style did not mesh   well with the locals. Fishermen were not 
consulted, and were taken aback when Land   reclamation crews began dumping sand on 
their fishing grounds in January 2014. The project's eventual target market was also a   problem. Forest City apartments targeted 
middle and high class Chinese households   overseas - "international buyers" 
as Country Garden put it. Obviously,   these locals are trying to move their money out of 
the country, parking it overseas in real estate. So the project hit a bit of a snag at 
the end of 2016. That year, $33 billion   of Chinese money went into foreign real estate 
and it was pissing everyone off. Not only the   Chinese government but also the governments 
of those whose real estate was being bought. So the Chinese government made everyone 
taking money out of the country sign a   pledge not to use their $50,000 quota 
to invest in real estate. Those who   violated the pledge would be put on a 
watchlist and lose several privileges. At the same time, the Malaysian government 
changed administrations. The new president,   93 year old Mahathir Mohamad,   said that he would not allow residential 
visas for any foreign Forest City buyers. These two developments basically put 
a stopper on Forest City's progress. Many Chinese nationals who put down money on 
a deposit were left high and dry - which is   unfortunate for them. But Forest City itself 
is still around, is still building though   nowhere near as fast, and has a few residents. 
Like, so few you might call it a ghost town. Golf club apparently pretty popular. ## Accidents In 2017, Country Garden produced about half 
a trillion RMB ($~78 billion) in revenue. This made them China's 
largest real estate company,   and put them on 467th on the Fortune 
Global 500 for the first time. Yang's side project - an education company 
called Bright Scholar Education which runs   Country Garden's various high-end schools - 
also listed on the New York Stock Exchange,   raising $160 million USD. 
Things were looking good. At the end of the year, the company 
had 1,468 projects in 768 counties   or towns. Nearly 60% of those projects 
were in third or fourth tier cities. Next year in 2018, they wanted to 
double and get to a trillion RMB.   But all that speed spread across all of 
China took its toll, leading to accidents. In July 2018, a retaining wall and worker 
dorm at the Country Garden Anhui Lu'an   project collapsed due to stormy winds, 
sending 16 people to the hospital. Six   died. Chairman Yang apologized, saying that 
he and his company would deeply reflect. The media furor diminished and things went 
on. At the end of 2019, Country Garden had   2,512 projects - about two thirds of those are in 
third, fourth, fifth, and even sixth tier cities. ## The Three Lines As real estate prices rose and rose, the 
Government took steps to restrain speculation. In late October 2017 at the 19th Party 
Congress, President Xi Jinping said in   a speech that housing should be "for 
living, rather than speculation",   setting off an extended government campaign 
to cool prices and tamp down speculation. This drive hit its peak in late 2020 
when the government passed their infamous   Three Red Lines policy. Those three red 
lines - more like danger zones - were: A percentage ceiling on the ratio 
of liabilities to assets of 70%,   excepting advances from contracted projects; The percentage of net debt 
to equity cannot exceed 100%; And finally, a requirement to hold at least   one dollar or RMB of cash for each 
dollar borrowed in the short term; I mentioned these Three Red Lines 
in the Evergrande video. The highly   levered Evergrande needed cash flow to 
both build its properties and pay down   the debt taken out to acquire its 
land. But without cash, they can't   finish properties. Without properties, 
they can't get cash. Spiraling decline. Unlike Evergrande, Country Garden seemed okay. 
In 2020, their net debt to equity was 56% and   they had 1.7 RMB of cash for each RMB of short 
term debt. In 2021, that would go to 2.15 times. Their asset-liability ratio was 
80%, which was higher than the   70% red line. But they were working 
on that. In 2021, the ratio was 78%. ## The Worst is Past? Very quickly however, Country 
Garden realized that business   in the real estate industry cannot go on as usual. Evergrande's crash would flood the market with 
unfinished apartments, causing prices to spiral   lower. This weakens confidence in the market, 
making it harder for companies to raise money. To find growth, Country Garden began building 
up many diversification initiatives. In 2019,   they announced themselves to be a 
"high tech comprehensive enterprise",   and began investing in two pre-existing business 
lines in agriculture and construction robotics. By the end of 2021, Guangdong 
Bozhilin Robot unveiled their   first medical and construction robots, 
which Country Garden said would replace   manual laborers and be safer and 
more environmentally friendly. That same year, their agricultural division - 
Country Garden Agriculture - announced that it   will build a large-scale "unmanned" farm. To 
be honest, many of these initiatives are given   more attention than their substance 
warrants. Country Garden is nowhere   near replacing its real estate revenue 
streams with robot and farm revenues. Through 2022, Country Garden managed to produce 
like as if normal despite a deteriorating real   estate environment. The Chinese business 
magazine Caixin reported that the company   delivered 700,000 units in 2022 - more than 
its competitors Evergrande and Vanke combined. ## Slowdown and Fall So if Country Garden was in a better 
space financially than Evergrande,   and they seemed to do so well 
in 2022, what happened in 2023? On the whole 2022 ended strong, but things 
really struggled through the second half of   that year. Country Garden only completed so many 
units thanks to help from local governments. So 2023 was a continuation of that, 
with sales in every month lagging   those in the previous year - down 65% 
year over year for the first 9 months. The key point is that when things got soft,   there was a flight to safety that benefited 
the tier 1 cities like Beijing and Shanghai.   But Country Garden had bet big on lower 
tier cities - targeting residents in   the growing white-collar class. Those areas 
suffered some of the worst price decreases. Falling prices and bad sales - sales 
fell 81% in the crucial September 2023   month - hurt the company's ability to build 
houses and service debt. No matter how your   assets and liabilities are, losing 60% 
of sales will cause significant problems. In October 2023, the company defaulted on   some of its dollar-denominated bonds - 
hurtling it into the global news sphere. Country Garden's financial instability is more 
worrying from a policy perspective because it   is building so many more units. Country Garden 
delivered 400,000 units in the first 9 months   of 2023, but the Japanese bank Nomura estimated 
that there are a million units still in the works. There will be social unrest if those apartments 
are not finished. So the company chose to use its   limited cash flow for paying workers to finish 
real estate units rather than paying back bonds. I do feel like Country Garden will eventually 
finish these homes. Governments are highly   incentivized to see these units completed. 
They might be worth 40% or 60% less now,   but they are worth nothing if left incomplete. I do wonder, however, how willing those 
buyers will be to continue paying their   mortgages if those mortgages are underwater. 
I am not familiar with Chinese debt laws,   but I wonder if walking away like 
what happened in the US is an option. In March 2023, Yang Guoqiang resigned 
from Country Garden for age reasons.   His second daughter Yang Huiyan takes 
control. We know little about her,   but the Yang Huiyan in Wu's book 
is a close copy of her father. ## Conclusion Country Garden's original winning 
business model was to find cheap   land and build great things 
on top of it - a la Walmart. In the end, that business model failed 
them. Yang's ambitious expansion into the   lower tier cities was a great gamble. 
This one might take the company down. Walmart also suffered from its attachment 
to its early business model. In one of   his last interviews, Charlie Munger 
talks about how Costco took advantage   of Walmart's resistance to going into 
the rich suburbs and paying for good   locations there. Country Garden fell into 
a similar trap - paying more for sites in   the tier-1 cities might have done 
them some real good in these times. Country Garden might be on its way down, 
but I believe that the Chinese real estate   industry isn’t going anywhere. In China, real 
estate development is more than just building   a simple roof over your head. It is an integrated 
platform that incorporates 50-60 other industries. Real estate will remain a massive part of 
the Chinese economy for a long time. And the   government's recent moves to soften-ish its 
prior regulations on debt and the like make   it clear that a complete move away from 
real estate would be a terrible mistake.