I make glass Klein bottles and I make cloth Klein bottles. Fabric Klein bottles that fit on your head. If you start taking this inside-out I notice - oh, you pull it inside out and keep going, keep going, keep going - eventually you get a shape that - remember this is the same, same bottle. Where the fabric is going in one direction and the other direction there's a circular hole where my finger touching this part of the manifold is going the left, this finger is going to the right. So there's a round hole around here. Okay, I looked at that and I said: I'll bet that that's related to what in topology is called a cross-cap. I looked at it and I said, okay, that's nice to know. So one day I'm over here doing the laundry - Brady come here, come here, check this out. So I'm doing the laundry one day and I reach in and pull out my jeans. Well, my jeans see a lot of service. And I pull it out and I look at the pants leg! And well, there's a hole in the knee - I know that, I'll keep wearing it. But the pants leg has pulled through its hole so that it goes up along here and down along here! In other words if I had it the right way out, if it hadn't been pulled inside out; it'd be just an ordinary pants leg - with a hole in it. But it popped out of the dryer looking like this! And I looked at it and said, wait a second. This shape here, where one side is going this way, this side is going this way - it's the same fabric shape as I had with this! Okay, so I said, hey I could probably make a Klein bottle out of this pants leg! All I have to do is cut it across here and bring it around and sew it together. Okay, so I start with this - cut off the leg right there. So now I have a pant leg, with a hole in the knee, in this funny shape what I'm calling a cross-cap and I think it's a topological cross-cap. All I have to do is bring this around, and do a fell seam to get this! I now have a, this hole has got to be the same as this hole! This pathway up here is the same as this pathway up here. This is a denim Klein bottle, that you can make! And the way to make it - if you don't want to use denim - is you say, okay, find a shirt or a pair of pants. So you have a shirt that's, you know, your usual J-random shirt. And start by cutting the sleeve off, cut the sleeve along here. Now I have the ingredients for a Klein bottle. There is the hole that was in the sleeve, the cuff - I'll bring this, bring the cuff through the hole. I now have that interesting cross-cap going up this way, going down this way. Bring these around so that the shoulder part is sewn to the cuff and that'll make a Klein bottle. So this is the way, if you want a Klein bottle out of an old shirt, you don't have to come to kleinbottle.com and buy this! You don't have to go get a Klein bottle hat at - at my website! Save you money, save me time, and recycle an old shirt into a topological manifold. You can get two Klein bottles out of every old shirt you got! And another pair of Klein bottles out of every pair of pants! Is that a deal or what? And yes, there are Klein bottles in here.