High-NA EUV is ASML's next-generation lithography   product, and is popularly marketed 
as the machine to save Moore's Law. ASML has shipped one early machine to 
Intel this year. The two are testing   it as we speak. ASML is planning to do 
20 High-NA EUV machines a year by 2028. A year ago, I did a video that updated us on 
High-NA EUV's latest progress. It was fun. Since another year has passed - time 
really flies - let us dive in again   into High-NA EUV technology. 
How are things going so far? ## Beginning One thing before we start. I plan to be in 
Antwerp, Belgium for IMEC's ITF World 2024   in May 21st and 22nd. It's my first 
trip to Belgium. If you are in town,   please let me know. Would love to speak to you. Let us briefly summarize 
what High-NA EUV actually is. High-NA EUV systems raise the Numerical Aperture 
or NA from 0.33 to 0.55. This would theoretically   shrink the size of the machines' half-pitch 
lines some 64% to 7.5 or 8 nanometers. Raising the NA requires utilizing 
more light. But ASML found that it   could not expand the size of the 6-inch EUV 
photomask standard. More on this bit later. So ASML had to design its way around 
this restriction by using larger and   stranger projection lenses. I have 
already covered that part in prior   videos. No more lens talk, 
please. Zeiss is watching. Anyway. These major architectural 
choices - made many years ago in   different times - set the stage for the 
technical and economic issues that ASML   and its partners have needed to overcome to 
get their new machine ready for fab floors. ## Stitching One unavoidable consequence 
of these changes is that the mask field size - the area on the wafer 
exposed in a single expose step - gets   cut in half. The new field size is 
about 26 by 16.5 millimeters. This   "Halvening" of the mask field 
size has major consequences. If the customer wants to make a die larger than 
this new field size - and there are valid reasons   for doing so - then ASML will need to do something 
called in-die stitching or just stitching. Here, we take the original design and cut 
it into two. Then we expose both masks with   some overlap. This overlap section is called the 
stitching region and receives a double exposure. Now Intel has worked with mixed field sizes before 
- they called it "1:2 printing" but not like this. Setting aside the colossal mechatronics 
challenges of lining up the stitch - the   overlay here is less than 1 nanometers - 
we need to consider all the weird dynamics   at play inside the Stitching Region. 
The EUV photomask has two borders - a   border for the mask image, and then a 
black border that is highly absorbent. This black border exists to prevent scattered 
light from affecting the die's neighbors,   but it is still a little reflective, 
about 1-3%. This creates a tiny bit   of a flash kind of like lens 
flair which can blur the image. The border also collects the various mechanical 
stresses from the multilayer deposition and   cleaning processes. SEM images of the region find 
that the multilayer does not drop evenly straight   down. There is some undercut - theorized 
to be because of repeated wash stages. These mechanical displacements add complexity and 
can cause placement error. So we need to model   out the interactions between the mask image, 
the mask image border, and the black border. The transitions between those 
three areas are complicated.   And reflections can wash out neighboring images. Recent experiments done by Siemens in 
conjunction with IMEC have suggested   that a double exposure hurts image 
contrast for certain features like the   contact holes used to wire up the 
different parts of a transistor. There was also some exploration 
done with nifty ways to cut the   design. The simple thing would be to 
just cut it straight down the middle. The risk with that being you leave 
some short tails on one side of the   cut. If the stitch is not perfect then we 
might be left with some cut-off polygons. But you don’t always have to 
cut straight. First "Smart   cuts" retain certain polygons across 
the border while leaving others out. And "stagger cuts" have a jagged shape 
that leave the ends of lines semi-isolated,   making them slightly easier to print. And of course, chip designers can 
also just move critical structures   like electrical connections away 
from the stitching area. To me,   this feels like the most obvious solution 
though it is unlikely to be a permanent one. In the same line, you can say all 
this nicely benefits the ongoing   chiplet and advanced packaging boom. 
The A15 Bionic chip inside the iPhone   13 is reported to be 8.58 by 12.55 millimeters. Skip the stitching headaches by 
doing a smaller compute chiplet   with High-NA EUV-enabled nodes. Then use 
advanced packaging to add on chiplets   made using less sophisticated nodes 
like how it is with the AMD MI300. Or ... maybe ASML goes and makes 
an even crazier machine? A wild   proposal from Kiwamu Takehisa of the 
O2 Laser Laboratory caught my eye. A TWINSCAN lithography machine already does 
two wafer stages and chucks at the same time. Why not have it run two 
photomasks at the same time too? Crazy right? But crazier things have happened. And   early throughput simulations do show this new 
scan paradigm raising throughput by 1.5 times. The only question is: Should 
we call it the TWINTWINSCAN?   Or the TWINSCANSCAN? Vote now on 
your phones for your favorite. ## The Resist The resist receives the light and thus 
helps retain the design on the wafer. The main concern has been the 
much thinner depth of focus,   which among other things means that 
we need to apply thinner layers of   resist - maybe 40-60% thinner - to 
maintain good focus during exposure. Existing EUV resists are organic "chemical 
amplified resists" or CARs. They are mixes   of carbon-based chemicals that have been 
used for lithography since the 1990s. Within the CAR, there is a photoacid generator 
molecule that creates acid when it absorbs   EUV light. The acid then causes other 
reactions during a post-exposure bake   step to amplify the photons' impact 
like a photodetector in a chemical. The issue is that CARs are relatively 
transparent to 13.5 nanometer EUV light,   which makes their use rather less than ideal. So having a thinner layer of them means 
more issues in resolving a clear image. We also have now have to more consider how   the wafer's own reflectivity 
affects the exposed image. And it also heightens the impact 
of stochastics - random isolated   defects that basically cannot 
be avoided because quantum. Tests done at ASML Taiwan found that cutting 
the CAR layers by 30% and 50% introduced 3-7   times more defects, as recorded by electron beam   inspection. The resolved images were 
also fuzzier, suffering more noise. The ASML Taiwan team notes that if we expect to 
use thin CAR layers for High-NA EUV, we will need   to accommodate these defects in the recipes and 
use aggressive metrology to find and repair them. Or better yet. Don’t use CARs 
at all. I want to note a new,   highly promising resist candidate 
- Metal Oxide Resists or   MOR. I don't know if that name was chosen 
deliberately but MOR for Moore's Law hah. It is not clear to me how MORs exactly work - 
if I knew then someone broke an NDA somewhere.   But I wonder if it has to do with the 
introduction of tin atoms to stop and   absorb energy like how early contrast fluids 
for CT scans used the heavy metal thorium. Anyway. With a MOR layer, you 
can print features with less   line width roughness - which is good 
because you want cleaner lines - using   slightly less UV light - which is good 
because it means less time in exposure   and thus more throughput - than you would 
need with an equally thin layer of CAR. The tin content also means that the 
resist becomes highly resistant to   etch processes after it undergoes 
the post-exposure bake step. We   shouldn't take this benefit too 
lightly, it is really helpful. Though there seem to be an issue with 
this particular post-exposure part.   Unspecified atmospheric conditions between the 
exposure and bake steps can cause bridging,   pattern collapse, and pinching - visual 
names for certain types of print defects. Recently, Tokyo Electron started talking 
about a new method and tool modification   they call Enhanced Sensitivity 
develoPER Technology - or ESPERT.   They say ESPERT - marketing needs to 
look at that name again - can modify   the chemical image to fix or avoid 
defects and get very tight patterns. As I mentioned, CARs have been the 
photoresist of choice for nearly 30   years now. So if the fabs switch from CARs 
to MORs it will cascade throughout the whole   lithography stack. A lot of existing things 
that worked before will have to be thrown out. The leading supplier of MORs is Inpria, which 
first spun out of Oregon State University but   was acquired by the Japanese chemical 
company JSR in 2021. Considering its   emerging importance, a great get for the Japanese. ## Metrology Metrology is going to be playing 
a huge role in High-NA EUV. I have not much mentioned the importance 
of metrology - the study of measurement.   But the High-NA EUV era will once more grow the 
role of semiconductor metrology and inspection. Stochastic failures will become more frequent, 
and it is already slowing down the process   cycle. More metrology measurements have 
to be done to find and flag these fails. At the same time, smaller resolutions 
also bring down the minimum size of the   defects. Checking line width roughness 
is harder because we are now measuring   in the sub-nanometer dimension. How 
do we can guarantee a consistent   resist layer when the layer itself 
is just 10 to 30 nanometers thick? This challenges existing tools, which 
are largely based on optical principles,   and opens the door to electron 
beam-based metrology and inspection.   Essentially mutant electron microscopes for 
finding defects that optical tools cannot see. IMEC has started to bring tools like Transmission   Electron Microscopes into their labs 
and integrating them into the line. And there are papers detailing something 
called "massive metrology", which sounds   like a mobile game but describes a need to review 
many features at the same time. Hitachi and IMEC   collaborated on a device that can inspect a 
million contact holes at once for defects. And it is not just stochastic 
defects to inspect for. For instance,   the flatter depth of focus means that 
not only the resist layer but also the   wafer itself has to be far thinner. We are 
going to need a whole lot more metrology   and inspection tools here and the fabs 
must pay through the nose for all of it. ## Computational Lithography As you might be guessing by now, we are 
coming towards a massive increase in the   computer's role in lithography 
- computational lithography. The use of anamorphic lenses that demagnifies 
one side more than the other. The fact that   there is now a hole in the middle of the 
final projection lens. The effects of the   thinner resist layer. And the fact that the mask 
shops aren't changing their methods or tools. This all needs to be incorporated into the 
computational lithography methods used to   produce the rules and simulations for today's 
EUV masks. It is an exceptional challenge. In a prior video, I talked about CuLitho, 
the library of algorithms from Nvidia that   helps make it easier to do certain 
computational lithography processes. Stuff like Optical Proximity 
Correction - modifications we   make to the chip design in order to make 
it print better. Or Inverse Lithography   Technology - completely reworking a chip 
design backwards to make it print optimally. Nvidia recently announced in March 2024 that TSMC   and the EDA firm Synopsys has started 
to put CuLitho algorithms into action. Nvidia noted how CuLitho helped optimize 
the OPC module in Synopsys’ mask synthesis   solution Proteus, accelerating speed 
and saving users many hours of time. It amuses me to think of TSMC making GPU 
wafers for Nvidia and then buying them   back from Nvidia at a way, way higher 
markup. But I think this trend of using   AI and parallelism in litho will only strengthen. I also want to call out TSMC's dire 
need for more accurate computational   lithography models to predict what are called 
"hotspots", certain areas in the design which   are more susceptible to open circuits 
or short circuits for whatever reason. Hotspot detection is more of a general lithography 
thing but they will become even more desirable in   the High-NA EUV era because of all the stochastic 
issues and the machine's high cost of ownership.   Anything to cut the number of defects at 
the design level is highly appreciated. It feels like something solvable, and 
over the years there have been a number   of papers touching on it. But traditional 
pattern-matching methods miss new types   of hotspots and machine learning methods ring 
too many false positives. The search continues. ## Economics High-NA EUV's single biggest competitor 
isn't a machine made by the Chinese or   Japanese. Rather, it is another ASML machine. The alternative to buying a $300 
million High-NA EUV lithography   machine would be doing multiple passes 
of standard Low-NA EUV. Right now it   looks like the economics are not 
quite in High-NA’s favor just yet. As I mentioned in the last video, lithography's 
cost of ownership is calculated as depreciation   cost divided by the product of raw 
throughput and equipment utilization. Assuming you are utilizing the equipment 100% of 
the time - which is impossible - then you can only   lower ownership cost by raising the throughput, 
which is measured by wafers per hour processed. The thing that most concerns me 
are throughput issues tied to the   low power source. If you raise a 
lithography machine's resolution,   then unless you also upscale its power 
source then the throughput will go down. The reason for this is - again - 
stochastics. We need more photons   hitting the photoresist to overcome 
the fact that a certain percentage   of them will "quantum" their 
way to where they shouldn't be. If your power source cannot generate enough 
EUV photons because it is underpowered,   then the only way to compensate is to hold 
the wafer under the power source for longer.   This slows throughput and hurts cost of ownership. Right now, ASML has not raised the 
power of the power source enough to   compensate for the resolution. They 
will try to do this by changing the   drive laser and accelerating the frequency 
of the tin droplets to 60,000 a second. To make a design to do this, we need to 
measure and model the behavior of molten   tin at the higher-than-atmospheric 
pressures inside the ASML machine. No instrument nor modeling software exists   for this. Yet another major metrology gap 
to plug. The US's National Institute of   Standards and Technology is working 
on it, as well as the Chinese. If we can pull all that off, will the 
power gain be enough? I wonder. But   there seems to be no impending desire to 
change the EUV power source design - and   the industry seems super insistent 
that synchrotrons are not the answer. Moreover, we have the half-sized field, the 
impending need to change the whole resist stack,   the gaps in current metrology, and 
so on. Taking this into account,   it seems like the High-NA EUV 
ecosystem is still a bit immature. It is good that Intel is trial 
running these devices with ASML   and helping to work out the kinks. They are 
very smart and will make many breakthroughs,   I reckon. But it's going to cost them. Luckily Intel is awash in cash and time! I think it is somewhat telling that TSMC has 
not yet started buying these machines in bulk.   It indicates that TSMC wants to 
see the cost of ownership for the   machine and its ecosystem go down. 
That gap needs to close somehow. Perhaps with that new nano-patterning technique,   Directed Self-Patterning? DSA can 
heal defects smaller than the pitch,   reducing the number of errors. I'll look at 
that one later, if people want to hear about it. For additional information, I suggest reading 
"ASML Dilemma" and "Intel’s 14A Magic Bullet:   Directed Self-Assembly (DSA)" by Jeff Koch and 
Dylan Patel of SemiAnalysis. Great as always. ## Conclusion Over the past few years covering 
the lithography industry,   I have reflected - hah! - on a few things. One of the reasons how ASML has gotten to where 
it is now is because of its system integrator   role - sourcing parts from a broad supply chain 
and retaining the job of putting them together. Like Boeing, but ouch let's not 
make those comparisons right now. But the downsides of that is that 
you are dependent on those companies   to cooperate with you on the future 
roadmap. Who knows what High-NA EUV   might look like today if the mask makers 
agreed to expand the size of the masks? Intel's Pat Gelsinger has told 
friend of the show Ian Cutress   at More than Moore in an interview that 
he wants ASML to explore larger masks. But the mask makers won't agree to do that 
unless TSMC and Samsung sign on - giving   either a veto on technological progress in 
the industry. It's the 450 millimeter wafer   upgrade problem all over again. ASML has been 
ninja-ing its way around that refusal ever since. As EUV advances down the line, there might be 
an argument for ASML to leave some of its former   approach behind and take more components in-house. 
This would greatly expand the company's breadth,   dilute its focus, and raise its cost structure. 
So it should not be take this decision lightly. But if an integrated approach helps them 
get these things out faster and avoid   these major headaches, then maybe 
they should at least consider it.