A diamond is a carbon crystal. Each carbon atom 
inside is bonded to four other carbon atoms. This strong bond gives the 
diamond its famous hardness as   well as its league-leading thermal conductivity. Small impurities or lattice distortions in 
the crystal give the diamond its colors. Isolated nitrogen atoms make the diamond yellow. Pairs of nitrogen atoms make 
it brown, green, or violet. And distortions in the lattice crystal structure 
give pink diamonds their wondrous pink. In the wild, diamonds are formed deep within 
the earth - about 150 to 700 kilometers - over   a long period of time. They are then brought to 
the earth's surface through volcanic eruptions. For millennia, the only way to get a 
big pretty diamond was to randomly pick   them out of geological formations. Panning the 
rivers in the hope of finding something lucky. Today, we can make a big, beautiful, perfect 
diamond in a piece of semiconductor equipment.   In this video, we explore MPCVD processes for 
diamond production. For gemstones and more. ## A Brief History of Synthetic Diamond I covered the history of diamond 
synthesis in the previous video. I recommend that you check that video 
out but here is a drastic summary. In 1797 we discovered that diamonds were just 
carbon, so scientists tried to heat charcoal   into diamond. That failed because we could 
not get hot enough. Happens to all of us. Then in the early 1910s, we realized 
that we did not have to replicate   all the conditions of the earth's 
mantle to make a diamond. Rather,   we can use high pressure in combination 
with high heat to make a diamond. General Electric first pioneered 
what we now call the High Pressure,   High Temperature method or HPHT in 1955. This method requires us to subject carbon to 2,200   degrees Celsius of heat and pressures 
of 1.5 million pounds per square inch. HPHT methods started off quite crude,   but have gradually improved in both quality 
and yield. By the 1990s, we had large,   gem-quality HPHT diamonds in various colors 
- though most come out yellow-orange. The HPHT method remains the most economical 
way to produce just any diamond. And there is   still a lot of research on it being 
done. Nevertheless, its high defect   rate and long cook time meant that it did not 
much damage the natural gem diamond industry. ## CVD Chemical Vapor Deposition or CVD 
takes precursor materials in a   gaseous phase and deposits it onto a substrate. The semiconductor industry can use it to deposit   single-crystal layers of pure silicon 
onto wafers. Why not for diamonds too? To make CVD diamonds, we start with a gas-phase 
carbon precursor, usually methane gas. This methane is mixed with hydrogen or oxygen. 
This stabilizes the diamond's surface and   prevents the diamond from converting 
into unwanted graphite impurities. Then, we use some form of energy to "activate" 
the precursor gases - basically decomposing   them into atomic parts. This energy can 
be delivered in a variety of ways - heat,   flames, microwaves, or something else. So the gases decompose ... And then somehow, the carbon atoms recompose 
themselves on the surface of a substrate - usually   a seed diamond introduced for this very 
purpose - in the form of mire diamond. I say "somehow" because we remain not exactly 
sure what is going on behind the scenes to cause   this and why. In part because we haven't yet 
developed tools to observe it as it happens. How does it all work? Nanomachines, 
son. Let’s just accept it and move on. ## Output and Economics Scientists have been demonstrating the growth 
of diamond crystals with CVD since the 1950s. The prevailing issues are 
output quality and scale. There is a quality gradient of CVD diamond 
available. The highest quality are called   "optical" or "electronic" grade. 
These are pure enough for us to take   advantage of the diamond's special 
electrical and thermal properties. On the far other end, we have far 
cheaper industrial-use diamond. Today,   HPHT-made diamond grit can be made for 
less than $1 per carat. Dead cheap. Whatever we would use this diamond for, 
we need to make it at scale. It is easy   to use some lab equipment to produce one 
or even a few diamonds. The issue comes   about when we want to scale that up, which 
brings new technical problems to overcome. In many ways, it is quite similar to 
semiconductors. It is easy to make   a single perfect integrated circuit. The problem   is when we want to make millions 
of perfect ICs at a good price. The first successful deposition of diamond 
at a practical rate - meaning more than   a micrometer an hour - occurred in the 
mid-1970s by the Soviet scientist B.V.   Derjaguin. His success using a variety 
of methods raised eyebrows in Japan. The Japanese took those methods and eventually 
identified two of the major CVD methods used   in the lab-grown diamond industry today 
- Hot Filament and Microwave Plasma CVD. ## Hot Filament
Let's discuss the first one. Hot Filament CVD injects energy into 
the precursor gas mix using a very hot   tungsten filament - heated to something 
like 2000 degrees Celsius. There are a   variety of setups and arrangements for these 
filaments - leading to a diversity of designs. Hot Filament CVD does work and is a pioneering 
method. But there were several serious problems.   First, while it represented a breakthrough leap in 
formation speed, it was still initially too slow. The first experiments produced a 
growth rate of about 1 micrometer   per hour. Assuming that you wanted a 
nice gem diamond about 5 millimeters   tall - generally about 2 carats - that 
will take 5,000 hours or 208 days. To speed things up, scientists 
introduced nitrogen to the process.   But as I mentioned earlier, nitrogen 
atoms make diamonds come out yellow. Not that there's anything wrong with that.   Yellow diamonds deserve the same 
rights as all other diamonds. But a yellow diamond is not as 
useful for electronics applications,   which was what the team at the time was going for. Last and most seriously, there were concerns 
about the filament. Over time it might be   affected by carbon corrosion and heat. It 
might start to warp and bend, affecting the   deposition rate. Worse yet, the filament material 
- tungsten - can contaminate the growing diamonds. ## MPCVD So today, the CVD method most often used 
to create lab-grown diamonds is Microwave   Plasma CVD or MPCVD, representing 
about 50% share of the market. One of the big benefits of the MPCVD method is   that it avoids the contamination issues 
of having a filament inside the reactor. To make a diamond, we start with the substrate 
- little seed diamonds that we will grow the   final thing on top of. They look like little 
plates, but they indeed also made from diamond. A single chamber can accommodate up to 
18 seeds all at once. The seeds all go   inside the reactor chamber, which 
is then filled with the precursor   gas mix. We then bombard that mix 
with high frequency microwaves. Early prototypes used the same 
2.45 gigahertz waves used for   commercial microwave ovens - largely due to the 
availability of the tubes. I find that amusing. The microwaves ionize the gases' atoms, meaning 
that they either lose or gain an electron as   those electrons energize. When a significant 
percentage of the gas atoms become ionized,   we get a plasma. During deposition, we completely 
immerse the substrates in this ball of plasma. If the substrate surface conditions are heated to 
and maintained at a sufficiently high temperature,   then the precursors will settle on 
it and then a diamond will grow. After a few days - how long it takes 
depends on how large a diamond you   want - the diamonds come out in these silver 
and clear platter-chunks. There are crusts   on their edges and sides. That 
is all diamond dust and grit. You then use a laser to cut the 
diamond platter into smaller pieces,   leaving you with these raw cubes. 
These cubes are ready to go to a   jeweler for cutting and polishing 
into a finished brilliant stone. Speed of growth - especially pure, 
defect-free growth - remains an   issue. But it is getting faster thanks 
to improved reactor designs. Furthermore,   we can ameliorate this by growing 
diamonds in batches in parallel. ## Gems? Today, 2-carat diamond rings cost anywhere 
near $5,000 or so a pop in Costco. Costco mentions that all of their diamonds 
are "natural", which I presume to mean   "mined". It implies that only mined diamonds are 
natural. But that should no longer be the case. In 2018, the US Federal Trade Commission 
amended its definition of "diamond" for   its Jewelry guides. Previously, the guides used 
to include the word "natural" in the definition. But MPCVD and other lab-grown 
diamonds have the same optical,   electrical, and physical properties as 
the mined stuff. The FTC has decided that   adding the modifier "natural" 
in there is no longer useful. The FTC also allowed for the use of the word 
"cultured" to describe lab-grown diamonds. The   mined diamond industry fought this, recommending 
that the FTC only reserve that word for pearls. They know what cultured pearls 
eventually did to the natural   pearl industry. 99% of pearls sold today 
are cultured - I did a video about it. Widely accepted, cheap, perfect 
cultured diamonds could similarly   overwhelm the mined diamond industry 
and their substantially higher costs. In 2022, the global gemstone industry 
generated about $30 billion in total   value. Admittedly my sources for 
this number are not the best. But the number seems pretty 
reasonable considering that De Beers,   the world's leading diamond company, 
generated $6 billion in revenue in 2022. Anyway, my point is that there is a lot 
of money to be made here. And every year,   CVD diamond makers are improving the speed 
and scale of growth. At the same time,   the public is warming up to these stones. The gap in prices between mined and cultured 
gem diamonds is growing. People want cheaper   diamond jewelry, and cultured diamonds can take 
them there. Eventually the price gap will become   too compelling for consumers to ignore. And 
I wonder what will happen to the market then. In a previous video, I mentioned that De 
Beers sees the writing on the wall. They   are transitioning from once controlling a raw 
diamond cartel to controlling a jewelry brand.   In their vision, consumers will buy brands, 
not stones. That is where the value will be. ## Other Applications Considering the ongoing price pressure 
issues in the cultured diamond market,   why study CVD diamond technology at all? Right now, there are university 
and industrial teams all over the   world still investing significant 
money into diamond production. Not because they want gemstones. But because 
there is a larger opportunity in exploiting   the diamond's extreme electric, optical 
and thermal properties. The first major   commercial use case for CVD diamonds 
was not for rings, but heat spreaders. Cultured, single-crystal diamond has the 
highest known thermal conductivity of any   room temperature solid. In some cases 
outperforming traditional materials   like copper and silicon carbide 
by a factor of three or more. This makes them very useful for heat 
sinks and heat spreaders. These are   structures for transferring heat away from 
its source to cooler areas elsewhere. Since   heat is the single biggest reason for 
electronics failure, it's a big deal. AT&T commissioned the first CVD-diamond based 
heat spreaders for cooling high-powered laser   diode arrays, which send signals through 
under-sea optical cables. CVD diamond heat   spreaders helped shrink the package 
and extend its operating lifetime. This funded the development of 
new techniques to polish and cut   CVD diamonds as well as metallization 
techniques - which involves applying   metal layers onto the diamond for 
mounting into electronic devices. The heat spreading benefits of CVD diamond 
have been mooted for advanced packages in   semiconductors as well. Considering 
the massive thermal issues associated   with today's 3D stacked chips, I would not 
be surprised if the semiconductor-makers   aren't already sniffing around CVD 
diamond heat spreaders for options. If you don't think it's a big opportunity,   then I just want to remind you that 
Synopsys paid $35 billion for an EDA   software modeling thermal interactions in such 
3D stacked chips. There IS something here. ## Conclusion Before we conclude, I want to thank Ropac, 
a Taiwanese company based in Taichung,   for giving me access to their 
MPCVD equipment for filming. As well as their openness in answering questions. 
An incredible experience to see it all in action. If you are interested in their technology, 
and maybe even buying one of their MPCVD   reactor tools for your diamond 
lab, get in touch with them. For guys like Ropac, CVD diamonds have more 
potential than just rings and even heat spreaders. CVD diamonds offer tantalizing possibilities 
in things as varied as power semiconductors,   precision optical lens for lasers,   and even detector materials for 
fusion plasma measurement tools. The key goal is to find an end-user 
application that can only be made   possible with CVD diamond. Not one that 
merely replaces an existing material. That   would be the true diamond in the rough that 
all the equipment-makers are searching for.