- Hey guys this is Austin, and this is a Razer computer. Banana for scale, I
can't do this joke right. Banana for scale. This is the Razer Tomahawk, and with only ten liters of capacity, no joke when I walked in here, I straight up thought this
is going to be an eGPU. But, it's a computer, with computer things and GPU
things and a power supply, all in one tiny package
for your enjoyment. - [Ken] Where's that Banana? - I'm just gonna just move on from this, this is not (laughs) Josh, no, Josh why are
you doing this to me Josh? Please no, (laughs) - [Matt] Austin's one banana tall. - Now this is a very
different kind of computer than you're probably used to. So because it sits in a
card-like form factor, you essentially plug
it in to PCIe slot on a daughter board just like this. You plug in your graphics card here, and there also M.2 slots underneath. So depending on how you wanna set it up, you can take advantage of SSD storage not only inside the Compute Element, you can also add additional storage inside this daughter board. All of this is made possible by this, the Intel NUC Compute Element. Now well it might look
like a graphics card, what you got here is essentially a full laptop motherboard built into a card with a PCI slot. So you look around back
you'll see pretty much all of the ports you would expect. So we've got a couple
Ethernet ports, four USB 3.0, two Thunderbolt as well as
an auxiliary audio jack. What really cool about this, is it inside we have a full 9th
generation Core processor. Now mind you, it is an
H-series so it's essentially what you would find in
say like a Razer Blade, like a gaming laptop, but
it goes all the way up to an 8-Core Core i9 and something which can go into a very,
very small form factor. So because I have a microphone
in my hand and I'm lazy, would you like to build the computer now? - Definitely, I will show
you guys how it's done. - Okay, so the first step is
to install the graphics card. So that will go right into the PCI slot and then you have this
power supply specifically has a very short cable so it pretty much all just plugs right in. Then we drop the NUC in which
just slides right into place. And with that, plug in the graphics card, plug in the NUC, and then, no pressure but that's, there you go. I'm very proud of you and
then just slide it right in, close the handle and look at that you just built a
computer, how do you feel? - I feel proud of myself. - Have you done this more
or less than 10 times today? - Did it probably 50 times. - Now as of right now the plan for Razer is to sell this as a not
only a completed computer but also just as the chassis itself which will be known as the Tomahawk N1, now I don't have pricing on it however the release date should hopefully be in the first half of this year. Now, the fun isn't just
kept to the desktops, as Razer has also updated
their laptop line. So first of all the 13
inch the Blade Stealth is seeing an update which is, well I can't really tell you much because all I know is
that it will be getting a faster display, a higher
refresh rate display of some variety. So that's gonna be fun at some point. But probably the more exciting
thing is that the Blade 15 as well as the Blade 17 will
be getting a 300 hertz display. Yes, my friends, not 60, not 144, not 240, 300 frames per second. Now do you need 300 frames per second? Of course you do. You're not a true gamer, if you're running at
240 frames per second. If you're running at
280 frames per second, no, you need 300 hertz. Now these won't be shipping until roughly the first half of the year. However, they should be taking advantage of the 10th generation Intel processors. Which word on the street says might be up to like five gigahertz. So you know, probably be
helpful when you're trying to run your game at 300 frames per second. On the mobile side of things. We have the Razer Kishi. Now this is a controller, which is meant to clip to
a wide variety of phones. So they actually do have
the Junglecat right here, which is sort of similar to what you could get on the Switch. However, it only works with
a few different phones. However, with the Kishi, it
should work for most phones with a USB-C port on the Android side, and they are also working
on a version for iPhone. The idea here is that on the back, you can kind of stretch it out to kind of get the exact size of your phone, but this should be solid controls for a wide variety of devices. There's also this, the Sila 5G router. Now this is a router which can
take advantage of not only, of course, your standard
internet connection. But importantly, it could
also take advantage of 5G, whether it's millimeter wave or sub-6. You can easily imagine this replacing your standard WiFi at your house. And the cool part about it is especially when you consider there's a lot of cloud gaming stuff coming up. 5G really is meant for that
super high bandwidth high, low latency, low high latency (laughs) Yes, don't, doesn't everyone
like high latency gaming? - [Ken] The authority on tech. (laughs) - Hey, man, you gotta run
your Google Stadia somehow, I'm I right? - [Ken] Is this why you're
bad at every game you play? - It's 'cause I'm bad at life Ken. I'm bad at talking. I'm obviously bad at finding
friends to hang out with. - [Ken] Yeah, you have to, put them on payroll. (laughs) - Goodnight, thank you very much for watching. (laughter)
- [Ken] That's a window. - Where are you going?
- Yes, yes, Ken it is a window. It's that time of the night. So that is a look at
what Razer has at CES, definitely be sure to
subscribe to the channel for more CES coverage. You can also check out some
of our other CES videos here. Now if you excuse me, I'm
going to go find friends who are real friends because Ken Bolido, he's just not cutting it anymore. Like that just wasn't
uncomfortable silence because it's a lot of
truth in that statement. - [Ken] You have a friend
that's just holding a light for you.