November 1965 saw one of the most widespread 
power outages in North American history. On   the freezing cold evening of the 9th, the grid 
was operating at maximum capacity as people   tried to stay warm when a misconfigured relay 
tripped a breaker on a key transmission line.   The loss of that single line cascaded into a 
loss of service for over 30 million people in   the northeast US plus parts of Ontario in 
Canada. Restoring electricity to that many   people is no simple task. In this case, the 
startup began with a little 12 megawatt gas   generator in Southampton, New York. That’s 
about the capacity of four wind turbines,   but it was enough to get power plants in Long 
Island back online which were able to power up   all of New York City, eventually returning 
service to all those 30 million people. The grid is a little bit of a house of cards. 
It’s not necessarily flimsy, but if the whole   thing gets knocked down, you have to rebuild 
it one card at a time and from the ground   up. Restoring power after a major blackout 
is one of the most high stakes operations you   can imagine. The consequences of messing it up 
are enormous, but there’s no way to practice a   real-life scenario. It seems as simple as flipping 
a switch, but restoring power is more complicated   than you might think. And I built a model 
power grid here in the studio to show you how   this works. This is my last video in a deep dive 
series on widespread outages to the power grid,   so go back and check out those other videos 
if you want to learn more. I’m Grady and this   is Practical Engineering. In today’s episode 
we’re talking about black starts of the grid. This video is sponsored by 
HelloFresh. More on them later. An ideal grid keeps running indefinitely. Maybe it 
sustains localized damage from lightning strikes,   vehicle accidents, hurricanes, floods, and wayward 
squirrels, but the protective devices trigger   circuit breakers to isolate those faults and keep 
them from disrupting the rest of the system. But,   we know that no grid is perfect, and occasionally 
the damage lines up just right or the protective   devices behave in unexpected ways that cascade 
into a widespread outage. I sometimes use the word   blackout kind of freely to refer to any amount 
of electrical service disruption, but it’s really   meant to describe an event like this: a widespread 
outage across most or all of an interconnected   area. Lots of engineering, dedicated service from 
linesworkers, plenty of lessons learned from past   mishaps, and a little bit of good fortune have all 
meant that we don’t see too many true blackouts   these days, but they still happen, and they’re 
still a grid operator’s worst nightmare. We   explored the extreme consequences that come from 
a large-scale blackout in a previous video. With   those consequences in mind, the task of bringing 
a power grid back online from nothing (called a   black start) is frightfully consequential with 
significant repercussions if things go wrong. The main reason why black starts are 
so complicated is that it takes power   to make power. Most large-scale generating 
plants - from coal-powered, to gas-powered,   to nuclear - need a fair amount of electricity 
just to operate. That sounds counterintuitive,   and of course configurations and 
equipment vary from plant to plant,   but power generating stations are enormous 
industrial facilities. They have blowers   and scrubbers, precipitators and reactors, 
compressors, computers, lights, coffee makers,   control panels and pumps (so many pumps): 
lubrication pumps, fuel pumps, feedwater pumps,   cooling water pumps, and much much more. Most 
of this equipment is both necessary for the   plant to run and requires electricity. Even the 
generators themselves need electricity to operate. I don’t own a grid scale, three-phase generator 
(yet), but I do have an alternator for a pickup   truck, and they are remarkably similar 
devices. You probably already know that   moving a conductor through a magnetic field 
generates a current. This physical phenomenon,   called induction, is the basis for 
almost all electricity generation on   the grid. Some source of motion we call the 
prime mover, often a steam-powered turbine,   spins a shaft called a rotor inside a set of 
coils. But you won’t see a magnet on the rotor   of a grid-scale generator, just like (if you 
look closely inside the case) you won’t see a   magnet inside my alternator. You just see 
another winding of copper wire. Turns out   that this physical phenomenon works both ways. 
If you put a current through a coil of wire,   you get a magnetic field. If that coil 
is on a rotor, you can spin it like so. This is my model power plant. I got this idea 
from a video by Bellingham Technical College,   but their model was a little more sophisticated 
than mine. Let me give you a tour. On the right   we have the prime mover. Don’t worry about the 
fact that it’s an electric motor. My model power   plant consumes more energy than it creates, but I 
didn’t want to build a mini steam turbine just for   this demonstration. The thing that’s important is 
that the prime mover drives a 3-phase generator,   in my case through this belt. And the generator 
you already saw is a car alternator that I   “modified” to create an Alternating Current 
instead of a Direct Current like what’s used   in a vehicle. The alternator is connected to 
some resistors that simulate loads on the grid.   And I have an oscilloscope hooked up to one of 
the phases so we can see the AC waveform. Yeah,   all this is so we can just see that sine wave 
on the oscilloscope. It could have been a couple   of tiny 3-phase motors; It could even have just 
been a signal generator. But, you guys love these   models so I thought you deserved something 
slightly grander in scale. There’s a few   other things here too, including a second model 
power plant, but we’ll get to those in a minute. The alternator I used in my model has two brushes 
of graphite that ride along the rotor so that we   can supply current to the coil inside to create an 
electromagnet. This is called excitation, and it   has a major benefit over using permanent magnets 
in a generator: it’s adjustable. Let’s power up   the prime mover to see how it works. If there’s 
no excitation current, there’s no magnetic field,   which means there’s no power. We’re just spinning 
two inert coils of wire right next to each other.   But watch what happens when I apply some current 
to the brushes. Now the rotor is excited, and I   have to say, I’m pretty excited too, because I can 
see that we’re generating power. As I increase the   excitation current, we can see that the voltage 
across the resistor is higher, so we’re generating   more power. Of course, this additional power 
doesn’t come for free. It also puts more and   more mechanical load on the prime mover. You can 
see when I spin the alternator with no excitation   current, it turns freely. But when I increase 
the current, it becomes more difficult to spin.   Modern power plants adjust the excitation 
current in a generator to regulate the   voltage of electricity leaving the facility, 
something that would be much harder to do in a   device that used permanent magnets that don’t 
need electricity to create a magnetic field. The power for the excitation system 
can come from the generator, but,   like the other equipment I mentioned, it can’t 
start working until the plant is running. In fact,   power plants often use around 5 to 10 percent of 
all the electricity they generate. That’s why a   black start of a large power plant is often 
called bootstrapping, because the facility   has to pick itself up by the bootstraps. It 
needs a significant amount of power both to   start and maintain its own creation of power, 
and that poses an obvious challenge. You might   be familiar with the standby generators used at 
hospitals, cell phone towers, city water pumps,   and many other critical facilities where a 
power outage could have severe consequences.   Lots of people even have small ones for their 
homes. These generators use diesel or natural   gas for fuel and large banks of batteries to get 
started. Imagine the standby generator capacity   that would be needed at a major power plant. 
Five percent of the nearest plant to my house,   even at a quarter of its nameplate capacity, 
is 18 megawatts. That’s more than 100 of these. It’s just not feasible to maintain that amount 
of standby generation capacity at every power   plant. Instead, we designate black start sources 
that can either spin up without support using   batteries and standby devices or that can remain 
energized without a connection to the rest of the   grid. Obviously, these blackstart power plants are 
more expensive to build and maintain, so we only   have so many of them spread across each grid. 
Their combined capacity can only supply a small   fraction of electricity demands, but we don’t need 
them for that during a blackout. We just need them   to create enough power so that larger base load 
plants can spin up. Hydropower plants are often   used as blackstart sources because they only need 
a little bit of electricity to open the gates and   excite the generators to produce electricity. 
Some wind turbines and solar plants could be   used as blackstart sources, but most aren’t set 
up for it because they don’t produce power 24-7. But, producing enough power to get the bigger 
plants started is only the first of many hurdles   to restoring service during a blackout. The next 
step is to get the power to the plants. Luckily,   we have some major extension cords stretched 
across the landscape. We normally call them   transmission lines, but during a blackout, they 
are cranking paths. That’s because you can’t   just energize transmission lines with blackstart 
sources. First those lines have to be isolated   so that you don’t inadvertently try to power up 
cities along the way. All the substations along   a predetermined cranking path disconnect their 
transformers to isolate the transmission lines   and create a direct route. Once the blackstart 
source starts up and energizes the cranking path,   a baseload power plant can draw electricity 
directly from the line, allowing it to spin up. One trick to speed up recovery is to blackstart 
individual islands within the larger grid. That   provides more flexibility and robustness in 
the process. But it creates a new challenge:   synchronization. Let’s go back to the model to see 
how this works. I have both generating stations   running now, each powering their own separate 
grid. This switch will connect the two together.   But you can’t just flip it willy nilly. Take 
a look at my oscilloscope and it’s easy to see   that these two grids aren’t synchronized. 
They’re running at slightly different   frequencies. If I just flip the switch when 
the voltage isn’t equal between the two grids,   there’s a surge in current as the two generators 
mechanically synchronize. We’re only playing with   a few volts here, so it’s a little hard to 
see on camera. If I flip the switch when the   two generators are out of sync, they jerk as 
the magnetic fields equalize their current.   If the difference is big enough, the two 
generators actually fight against each other,   essentially trying to drive each other like 
motors. It’s kind of fun with this little model,   but something like this in a real power plant 
would cause tremendous damage to equipment. So   during a black start, each island, and in fact 
each individual power plant that comes online,   has to be perfectly synchronized (and this is 
true outside of black start conditions as well). I can adjust the speed of my motors to get 
them spinning at nearly the exact same speed,   then flip the switch when the waveforms match 
up just right. That prevents the surges of power   between the two systems at the moment they’re 
connected. You can see that the traces on the   oscilloscope are identical now, showing that 
our two island grids are interconnected. One   way to check this is to simply connect a 
light between the same phase on the two   grids. If the light comes on, you know there’s 
a difference in voltage between them and they   aren’t synchronized. If the light goes off 
and stays off, there’s no voltage difference,   meaning you’re good to throw the breaker. Older 
plants were equipped with a synchroscope that   would show both whether the plant was spinning 
at the same speed as the grid (or faster or   slower) and whether the phase angle was a 
match. I bought an old one for this video,   but it needs much higher voltages than I’m willing 
to play with in the studio, so let’s just animate   over the top of it. Operators would manually 
bring their generators up to speed, making slight   adjustments to match the frequency of the rest 
of the grid. But matching the speed isn’t enough,   you also have to match the phase, so this was a 
careful dance. As soon as the synchroscope needle   both stopped moving and was pointing directly 
up, the operator could close the breaker. During a black start, utilities can 
start restoring power to their customers,   slowly matching generation capacity 
with demand as more and more power   plants come online. Generally, 
the most critical loads will be   prioritized during the recovery like natural 
gas infrastructure, communications, hospitals,   and military installations. But even connecting 
customers adds complexity to restoration. Some of our most power-hungry appliances only get 
more hungry the longer they’ve been offline. For   example an outage during the summer means all 
the buildings are heating up with no access to   air conditioning. When the power does come back 
on, it’s not just a few air conditioners ready   to run. It’s all of them at once. Add that to 
refrigerators, furnaces, freezers, and hot water   heaters, and you can imagine the enormous initial 
demand on the grid after an extended outage. And   don’t forget that many of these appliances use 
inductive motors that have huge inrush currents.   For example, here’s an ammeter on the motor of my 
table saw while I start it up. It draws a whopping   28 amps as it gets up to speed before settling 
down to 4 amps at no load. Imagine the demand from   thousands of motors like this starting all at the 
exact same instant. The technical term for this is   cold load pickup, and it can be as high as eight 
to ten times normal electrical demands before   the diversity of loads starts to average out 
again, usually after about 30 minutes. So, grid   operators have to be very deliberate about how 
many customers they restore service to at a time.   If you ever see your neighbor a few 
blocks away getting power before you,   keep in mind this delicate balancing act 
that operators have to perform in order to   get the grid through the cold load pickup for 
each new group of customers that go online. The ability to black start a power grid quickly 
after a total collapse is so important because   electricity is vital to our health and 
safety. After the 2003 blackout in the US,   new reliability standards were issued, 
including one that requires grid operators   to have detailed system restoration plans. 
That includes maintaining blackstart sources,   even though it’s often incredibly expensive. Some 
standby equipment mostly just does just that:   stands by. But it still has to be carefully 
maintained and regularly tested in the rare   case that it gets called into service. Also, the 
grid is incredibly vulnerable during a blackstart,   and if something goes wrong, breakers can 
trip and you might have to start all over   again. Utilities have strict security measures 
to try and ensure that no one could intentionally   disable or frustrate the black start process. 
Finally, they do detailed analysis to make sure   they can bring their grid up from scratch, 
including testing and even running drills   to practice the procedures; All this cost and 
effort and careful engineering just to ensure   that we can get the grid back up and running to 
power homes and businesses after a major blackout. Cost and effort are good things to 
spend on electrical infrastructure,   but I prefer our family dinners to be inexpensive 
and easy. Between juggling naps, chores,   and activities, it gets hard to fit cooking 
dinner into the schedule. HelloFresh saves us   time on the crazy weeknights by making cooking 
simple and quick. Plus it’s just a lot of fun. “A tomato…” HelloFresh has a lot of recipes that you can 
choose from each week, and different plans to help   you meet your goals, try something new, or just 
keep everyone happy, including family friendly,   fit and wholesome, vegetarian, and a bunch 
of options for side dishes and upgrades. “Yeah, really get your thumb in there…” We’ve been using HelloFresh for more than 3 years, 
and really, it’s not because of how convenient,   delicious, and healthy the meals are. It’s 
really just because we enjoy it. HelloFresh   is basically a shortcut to a memorable night 
in, and the meal at the end is an added bonus. “Isn’t zesting something just peeling 
it and not throwing away the peel?” They have a new offer if you’ve been on 
the fence about giving it a try. If you   go to HelloFresh dot com and use code 
PRACTICAL18, you’ll get 18 free meals   plus free shipping. I really think you’ll 
enjoy it. That’s HelloFresh dot com and   use code PRACTICAL18. Thank you for 
watching and let me know what you think.