A sewage collection system is not only 
a modern convenience but one also of the   most critical pillars of public health in 
an urban area. Humans are kind of gross.   We collectively create a constant stream of 
waste that threatens city-dwellers with plague   and pestilence unless it is safely carried 
away. Sewers convert that figurative stream   into a literal one that flows below ground away 
from public view (and hopefully public smell).   There are a lot of technical challenges with 
getting so much poop from point A to point B,   and the fact that we do it mostly out-of-mind, 
I think, is cause for celebration. So, this   video is an ode to the grossest and probably most 
underappreciated pieces of public infrastructure.   I’m Grady, and this is Practical Engineering. 
In today’s episode, we’re talking about sewers.   This video is sponsored by Curiosity 
Stream and Nebula. More on that later. As easy as it sounds to slap a pipe 
in the ground and point it toward   the nearest wastewater treatment plant, 
designing sanitary sewage lines - like   a lot of things in engineering - is a 
more complex task than you would think.   It is a disruptive and expensive ordeal to install 
subsurface pipes, especially because they are so   intertwined with roadways and other underground 
utilities. If we’re going to go to the trouble and   cost to install or replace them, we need to be 
sure that these lines will be there to stay,   functioning effectively for many decades. And 
speaking of decades, sewers need to be designed   not just for the present conditions, but also 
for the growth and changes to the city over time.   More people usually means more wastewater, 
and sewers must be sized accordingly. Joseph   Bazalgette, who designed London’s original sewer 
system, famously doubled the proposed sizes of   the tunnels, saying, “We’re only going to do this 
once.” Although wantonly oversizing infrastructure   isn’t usually the right economic decision, in that 
case, the upsizing was prescient. Finally, these   lines carry some awful stuff that we do not want 
leaking into the ground or, heaven forbid, into   the drinking water supply whose lines are almost 
always nearby. This all to say that the stakes   are pretty high for the engineers, planners, 
and contractors who make our sewers work. One of the first steps of designing a sewage 
collection system is understanding how much   to expect. There are lots of published studies 
and guidelines for estimating average and peak   wastewater flows based on population and 
land use. But, just counting the number of   flushes doesn’t tell the whole story. Most 
sanitary systems are separated from storm   drains which carry away rainfall and snowmelt. 
That doesn’t mean precipitation can’t make its   way into the sewage system, though. Inflow and 
infiltration (referred to in the business as I&I)   are the enemies of utility providers for one 
simple reason. Precipitation finding its way   into sewers through loose manholes, cracks 
in pipes, and other means can overwhelm   the capacity of the system during storms. The 
volume of the fabled “super flush” during the   halftime of the Superbowl is usually a drop 
in the bucket compared to a big rainstorm.   I&I can lead to overflows which create 
exposure to raw sewage and environmental   problems. So utilities try to limit this I&I to 
the extent possible through system maintenance,   and engineers designing sewers try to take it 
into account when choosing the system capacity. Once you know how much sewage to expect, 
then you have to design pipes to handle it.   It’s often said that a civil engineer’s only 
concerns are gravity and friction. I’ll let   you take a guess at which one of those makes poop 
flow downhill. It’s true that almost all sewage   collection systems rely mostly on gravity to do 
the work of collecting and transporting waste.   This is convenient because we don’t have to pay 
a gravity bill - it comes entirely free. But,   like most free things, it comes with an asterisk, 
mainly that gravity only works in one direction:   down. This fact constrains the design 
and construction of modern sewer systems   more than any other factor, and I’ve built 
some demonstrations in the garage to show   you how. I’m pumping a slurry of sand and water 
through this clear pipe which represents a sewer,   and we’ll take a look at the factors 
engineers consider in designing these systems. We need some control over the flow in a sewer 
pipe. It shouldn’t be too fast so as to damage   the joints or walls of the pipe. But it can’t 
flow too slow, or you risk solids settling out   of suspension and building up over time. We can’t 
adjust gravity up or down to reach this balance,   and we also don’t have much control over the 
flow of wastewater. People flush when they   flush. The only things engineers can control 
are the size of the sewer pipe and its slope.   Take a look at what happens when the slope is 
too low. The water moves too slowly and allows   solids to settle on the bottom. Over time, 
these solids build up and reduce the capacity   of the pipe. They can even completely clog. 
Pipes without enough slope require frequent   and costly maintenance from work crews to keep 
the lines clear. If I adjust the slope of the   line without changing the flow rate, watch what 
happens. The velocity of the water increases.   This not only allows solids to stay in suspension, 
but it also allows the water to scour away the   solids that have already settled out. The 
minimum speed to make sure lines stay clear   is known as the self-cleaning velocity, and 
you can see why in the demo. It can vary,   but most cities require that flow in a sewer pipe 
be at least three feet or one meter per second. So far I’ve been using sand to simulate the 
typical “solids” that could be found in a   wastewater stream. But, you might be interested 
to know that we’re, thankfully and by design,   only scratching the surface of synthetic human 
waste. Laboratories doing research on urban   sanitation, wastewater treatment, and even life 
support systems in space often need a safe and   realistic stand-in for excrement, of which there 
are many interesting recipes published in the   academic literature. Miso (or soybean) paste 
is one of the more popular constituents. This   polymer slime toy is as realistic as I want to 
be while keeping this video family-friendly,   but feel free to take your own journey down 
the rabbit hole of simulated sewage after this.   I mean that figuratively, of course. The slope of a sewer pipe is not only constrained 
by the necessary range of flow velocities.   It also needs to consider the slope of the ground 
above. If the slope is too shallow compared to   the ground, the sewer can get too close to the 
surface, losing the protection of the overlying   soil. If the slope is too steep compared to 
the ground, the sewer can eventually become   too deep below the surface. Digging deep holes to 
install sewer pipes isn’t impossible or anything,   but it is expensive. Above a certain depth, 
you need to lay back the slopes of the trench   to avoid having it collapse. In urban areas 
where that’s not possible, you instead have to   install temporary shoring to hold the walls open 
during construction. You can also use trenchless   excavation like tunneling, but that’s a topic for 
another video. This all to say that choosing a   slope for a sewer is a balance. Too shallow or 
too steep, and you’re creating extra problems.   Another topographic challenge faced by sewer 
engineers is getting across a creek or river. It is usually not cost-effective to lower 
an entire sewer line or increase its slope   to stay below a natural channel. In these 
cases, we can install a structure called   an inverted siphon. This allows for a portion 
of a line to dip below a depressed topographic   feature like a river or creek and come back up 
on the other side. The hydraulic grade line,   which is the imaginary line 
representing the surface of the fluid,   comes up above the surface of the ground. But, 
the pipe contains the flow below the surface.   The problem with inverted siphons 
is that, because they flow full,   the velocity of the flow goes down. That means 
solids are more likely to settle out, something   that is especially challenging on a structure with 
limited access for maintenance. This is similar   to the p- or u-trap below your sink, that spot 
where everything seems to get stuck. Notice how,   even though the pipe is the same size along the 
full length, settling is only happening within   the siphon. To combat this issue, inverted siphons 
often split the flow into multiple smaller pipes.   This helps to keep the velocity up above the 
self-cleaning limit. A smaller pipe obviously   means a lower capacity, which is partly why 
siphons often include two or three. You can see   that, even though there’s some settling happening, 
it’s not increasing over time. The velocity of the   flow in the smaller siphons is high enough 
to keep most of the solids in suspension. The volume and hydraulics of wastewater flow 
aren’t the only challenges engineers face.   Sewers are lawless places, by nature. There are 
no wastewater police monitoring what you flush   down the toilet, thank goodness. However, that 
means sewers often end up conveying (or at least   trying to convey) substances and objects 
for which they were not designed.   For a long time, grease and oil were 
the most egregious of these interlopers   since they congeal at room temperatures. 
However, the rising popularity of quote-unquote   “flushable” wipes has only made things worse. 
Grease and fat combine with wet wipes in sewers   to create unsettling but aptly named, “fatbergs,” 
disgusting conglomerates that, among other things,   are not easily conveyed through sanitary sewer 
lines. Just to illustrate the issue, this is how   quickly toilet paper breaks down when agitated in 
a mixer. And this is a wet wipe labeled flushable.   You can imagine the problems 
this would cause. Conveniently,   most places in the world have services 
available to carry away your solid   wastes so you don’t have to flush them. But 
they usually do it in trucks - not pipes. Obviously, this issue is more complicated than 
my little experiment. The labeling of wipes has   turned into a controversy that is too complex 
to get into here. My point though, and indeed   the point of this whole video, is that your 
friendly neighborhood sewage collection system   is not a magical place where gross stuff 
goes to disappear. It is a carefully-planned,   thoroughly tested system designed to keep the 
stuff we don’t want to see - unseen. What happens   to your flush once it reaches a wastewater 
treatment plant is a topic for another video,   but I think the real treasure is the 
friends - sewers - it meets along the way. If you’re here at the end of the video, I’m 
guessing that means you’re pretty thoughtful about   the kind of videos you spend your time enjoying. 
In other words, you probably prefer learning new   things about the world more than run-of-the-mill 
television programming. You probably also don’t   enjoy watching ads like this one, which is great, 
because Nebula doesn’t have any. Nebula is a   streaming service built by and for independent 
creators like MinutePhysics, Real Engineering,   Wendover Productions, and a bunch of others 
(including me). It’s a way for us to try new   ideas that might not work on advertiser-supported 
platforms like YouTube. My videos go live there   the day before they publish here, with no ads 
or sponsorships. And, we’re super excited to   be partnered with CuriosityStream, a service with 
thousands of documentaries and non-fiction titles   on pretty much every subject you can imagine. 
CuriosityStream loves independent creators and   wants to help us grow our platform, so they’re 
offering free access to Nebula when you sign up at   CuriosityStream.com/practicalengineering. I know 
there are a lot of streaming services right now,   and all those monthly subscriptions can be tough 
to keep track of. That’s why this bundle is such   an awesome deal. CuriosityStream is taking 
26% off an annual plan - that makes it only   $15 for an entire year of access to thousands 
of awesome documentaries on CuriosityStream   AND everything on Nebula as well. You can watch 
awesome long-form content on CuriosityStream.   I loved this David Attenborough special called 
Light on Earth about all the different animals   that exhibit bioluminescence. Or, watch Tom Scott 
pit other YouTubers against each other in his   Nebula-exclusive gameshow, Money. It’s a great 
way to support my channel and a whole host of   your other favorite educational creators. Plus 
it’s just a great deal. Do us both a favor and   click that link in the description. Thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think!