Sewage is always better when it’s out of sight and 
out of mind, and the only reason it stays that way   is wastewater infrastructure. We’re in the middle 
of construction for a new sewage lift station just   outside San Antonio, Texas. I’m filming the entire 
process and sharing it with you, because it’s not   always easy to understand how projects like this 
come together, and I want everyone to appreciate   how much hard work goes into the infrastructure 
they might not even know they rely on everyday.   In the last episode, we saw the underground piping 
go in, the manholes installed, and an overview of   how this pumping station will work together with 
its neighbor to deliver raw wastewater uphill to a   nearby treatment plant. When we left off, this 
monster plug valve had just arrived on site.   Let me show you how to install a valve so big 
you could fit your head in it, and lot’s more…   I’m your host, Grady Hillhouse, 
and this is Practical Construction. The San Antonio River Authority’s existing 
lift station is in service at this site,   working 24/7 to keep the wastewater moving. The 
construction of this new lift station will make   it easier to take the existing one offline 
for maintenance. But first, it will need this   enormous valve to redirect wastewater flows from 
the existing wet well to the new one. And it needs   to be installed below a concrete slab. A crew uses 
a diamond saw to cut out the concrete above where   the line will be excavated. Then an excavator 
begins work to remove the soil above the line.   Like all the trenches on this job, this 
one will need shoring to keep the soil   from collapsing while crews are working inside. 
Eventually, the crew gets the line uncovered,   but it can’t be cut just yet. Remember that 
all the wastewater from the surrounding area   has been collected and concentrated into a 
single pipe (this one!). Before the valve   is installed, all that sewage will 
need to be temporarily redirected. This bypass pump is just the right piece of 
equipment for the job. The crew lays out the   hoses for the pump between an upstream 
manhole and the downstream lift station.   Then they build a ramp so vehicles can get over 
the top. An inflatable plug will keep wastewater   from flowing into the 24” or 600 millimeter 
diameter sewer line while the valve gets   installed. The pump will divert the wastewater 
straight into the lift station, bypassing the   sewer line. A worker monitors the level of 
sewage in the manhole and regulates the bypass   pumping to keep up with the wastewater flow. 
Meanwhile, a crew works to cut the existing line.   Once a section of pipe has been removed, 
the valve can be lowered into place.   This valve uses a mechanical joint to 
connect to the existing plastic pipe.   Bolts connect a gland to the valve 
and compress a gasket between the two,   pressing it tightly against the 
pipe to make a watertight seal.   The crew finishes installing the valve with 
haste, and then they use gravel bedding to   backfill the trench just like the rest 
of the underground piping on the project. At the new lift station across the 
site, it’s time for more backfill.   It might be hard to tell,   but all of this work is still happening 
under what will be the final grade.   Now that all the pipes are installed, the site 
needs to be brought up to its designed elevation.   Anywhere that will eventually get concrete 
is backfilled with this select material. It’s   basically road base: crushed rock that interlocks 
and compacts into an extremely stable subgrade.   The other parts of the site that won’t be used 
to support any structures can be backfilled   with the native clay. First, the material is 
spread out in an even layer called a lift.   Then the roller compacts it into place.   An inspector checks the density of the backfill  as a quality control measure. A hole is hammered 
into the new compacted soil using a metal pin.   Then the tester pushes a source rod into the hole.  This rod has a radioactive source on the tip.   It actually requires a license to operate one 
of these gauges, but backfill is important.   A lot of expensive stuff is going to sit on this 
material, and we don’t want it setting over time.   The nuclear gauge can calculate the density 
and water content of the soil based on how   much of the source radioactivity makes it 
through to the sensor above the surface. Most of the underground work is done by now, but 
not all of it. This lift station will use some   pretty big pumps, which means it needs robust 
electrical connections. The conductors between   the pumps will run in underground conduits. First the trenches are shored.   Then the bedding gravel goes in to provide even 
support to the conduits once they’re buried.   With the conduits installed, a layer of 
red concrete goes in. The red color is an   extra precaution to warn anyone digging in the 
future that there are electrified lines below.   Finally, the trenches are backfilled with select 
fill and compacted to prepare for construction of   the controls shelter. They use a vibratory 
plate compactor around the larger areas,   and a tamping rammer (also known as a 
jumping jack compactor) to get into the   tighter spaces. At this point, there’s 
a lot happening all at once on site,   so don’t mind if I show a few things 
out of order to keep the story clear.   Construction schedules are rarely 
designed with narrative structure in mind. This area will eventually get a concrete slab 
and a steel shelter to protect the lift station’s   electrical equipment and controls.   The shelter 
will be supported by three posts concreted into  these holes in the ground. The crew works to 
install the concrete forms that will make up the   posts’ foundations and compact the surrounding 
soil to create a firm base. Each form tube is   checked for level and elevation before it’s 
secured into place with backfill. Each hole   will also get steel reinforcement before 
the concrete is placed. This rebar helps the   concrete foundation resist forces like wind 
loads that the shelter will be subject to. Once the posts have been installed and 
concreted into place, the crew works   on forming the rest of the shelter pad.  They install formwork around the edges,   tie reinforcing steel to be embedded in 
the slab, and form around locations where   electrical conduit comes up from underground. And, 
before long, it’s time for the concrete trucks.   Concrete is placed into the forms 
using the chute on the truck.   It’s spread roughly into place with shovels. 
Then a screed board sets the top surface.   Once all the concrete is in, a magnesium float 
is used to smooth the surface and embed the   large aggregate in the concrete. The bull float 
has a tilting mechanism that makes it easy to   smooth the concrete in both directions, pushing 
and pulling. Then the slab is left to cure. It’s a little hard to see with the 
concrete in, but the entire perimeter   of formwork is lined with these little 
wooden triangles called chamfer strips.   When the formwork is removed from this slab, you 
can see the nice 45-degree corners, or chamfers,   these strips create. The chamfers not only improve 
the appearance of the slabs, but they reduce the   chances of the corners chipping or breaking 
over time, extending the lifespan of the pad.   Once the slab is complete, the rest 
of the shelter can be installed.   Steel sheets are attached all along the roof 
and the back wall. These sheets will eventually   protect the electrical equipment panels from sun 
and weather. We’ll come back to this shelter when   the electricians have made some progress on those 
panels. Right now there’s more concrete to place. The area between the wet well and the new shelter 
will eventually have all the discharge piping from   the pumps and other equipment aboveground. 
But first it needs a concrete slab. The   crew finishes compacting the subgrade below 
the slab and checks the level using a laser.   Just like the electrical shelter, this 
equipment slab starts with formwork around   the perimeter and a mat of reinforcing 
steel. The concrete arrives on site.   However, before it goes into the forms, a little 
bit goes into a wagon for the testing lab. How do we know that the concrete delivered 
to a construction site actually meets the   specifications required by the engineer? 
We have to do quality control tests,   or at least a technician on the site does. 
First, the technician performs a test to check   the workability or consistency of the mix called 
a slump test. A cone is filled with the concrete   and rodded to remove air bubbles. Then the 
cone is lifted, allowing the concrete to slump.   The distance from the top of the cone to the top 
of the concrete is measured, and this must be   within the allowable guidelines. Too little slump 
and the concrete won’t flow easily into the forms.   Too much slump may be a sign that the 
concrete has been improperly mixed.   This test also helps verify that the concrete 
across multiple trucks has similar properties. Next the technician checks the 
air content of the concrete.   The air meter applies pressure to the concrete 
sample, compressing the bubbles within the mix   so that the change in volume can be measured. 
Not enough air entrained in the concrete can   make it brittle and subject to flaking, 
especially under freezing conditions.   Too much air can make the concrete difficult 
to finish and create surface defects.   Finally, the technician uses plastic 
molds to form concrete cylinders.   These cylinders will eventually undergo 
compression testing after they’ve had   time to cure to make sure that the concrete 
is as strong as required by the engineer.   If the concrete company made an error 
in a batch they sent to the site,   it would be caught by one of these tests, and 
the slab would have to be taken out and redone.   Luckily, all the concrete on this project 
passed quality control with flying colors. This equipment slab is placed just like the one at 
the electrical shelter. Just before the concrete   is too stiff, a broom is run along the surface 
to provide a non-slip texture to the slab. That’s   another one done on this project, but we’re still 
far from finished with concrete. The next task is   the light pole. Like the shelter, this pole will 
be supported using a drilled concrete shaft.   And the drill just arrived in a pickup truck. Skid 
steers are versatile little machines, and this one   has been equipped with a miniature drill rig. 
The surveyor has already marked the centerpoint   of the hole, and now it’s time to drill out 
the soil so the concrete can be installed.   The process is simple: spin the auger 
until the soil is broken up in the hole;   pull it out and shake it off; then do it again;   and again.   It doesn’t take long at all to reach the final 
depth of the hole, almost as deep as this little   auger can reach. Then a trench is dug to run 
the power lines through conduit to the light.   Reinforcing steel is placed inside 
the hole and a cardboard tube is used   to form the pier above the ground. 
This will get concrete in a moment. Meanwhile, workers are making progress 
forming the slab over the top of the wet well.   First, scaffolding will have to 
be assembled within the wet well.   Something has to support the underside of 
the concrete slab while it is cast in place,   so scaffolding is erected inside the wet 
well to provide this support. All this   scaffolding will have to be removed through 
the access hatch once the concrete is cured,   so all of this has to be easy to disassemble when 
the time comes. Finally, the carpenters install a   plywood false cover over the top of the wet well 
that will form the bottom of the concrete slab. Unlike the equipment slab that is essentially a 
continuous area of concrete, the wet well cover   slab has a lot of embedded items. In addition to 
the formwork, it gets blockouts for the vent pipe,   the stilling well, each of the three discharge 
lines for the pumps, a suction line for the   backup diesel pump, and vent line for the 
air release valve. Don’t worry if all this   equipment means nothing to you right now. I’ll 
show you what all of it does when it’s installed.   Of course, the biggest blockout is the 
access hatch that will allow people and   equipment to get into and out of the 
wet well once the project is finished.   The access hatch is placed where it 
will be embedded in the concrete slab.   Then it’s secured into place so that it 
doesn’t shift during the concrete pour. One challenge with the concrete slab above the 
wet well is that it needs to stay attached to   that structure no matter what. If the heavy 
concrete wet well settles over time, we don’t   want the slab on top being separated from the 
rest of the structure. The project’s structural   engineer developed a pretty cool way to make sure 
these two components of the project act as one,   and it involves a lot of cardboard. These are 
void forms designed to fit perfectly within the   space of the wet well cover slab. Well, perfectly 
with a bit of excavation. This shot is a perfect   reminder of how strong this select backfill can 
be. That angular crushed rock compacts so tightly   you need a hammer drill to break it loose. The 
void forms were manufactured and delivered to   the site already built, so it’s kind of like 
a puzzle getting them all to fit just right. These cardboard forms are strong enough 
to hold up the concrete while it cures,   but they will quickly deteriorate, 
leaving an empty space below the slab.   The concrete is designed to only be supported 
by the perimeter of the wet well itself. That   ensures that, if the wet well settles 
over time, the slab will settle too   without experiencing undue stress from the 
underlying subgrade pushing back upward. If you had a careful eye, you may have caught 
these retaining blocks being cast onsite earlier   in this episode using some simple carpentry for 
molds. We called them pavers, since they look   like stepping stones you might buy at the hardware 
store. Once they’re cured, the retaining blocks   get placed all around the formwork for the wet 
well cover slab. After the cardboard void forms   deteriorate, they leave an empty space between the 
concrete slab and the subgrade, which is an issue   around the edges. We don’t want soil collapsing 
into the void that’s left behind, or any animals   getting in there either. So, the project requires 
these precast concrete retainers be installed all   around the perimeter of the wet well slab. When 
the cardboard dissolves, these will keep soil from   filling the void while still allowing the slab 
some freedom to move up or down with the wet well. The reinforcing steel is installed inside the 
forms. That gets an inspection to make sure   it conforms to the engineered plans. And 
finally, it’s time to place the concrete.   All that reinforcing steel is needed to make sure 
this slab can cantilever out past the wet well,   since it won’t be supported from underneath (once 
the cardboard dissolves). And all the blockouts,   electrical conduits, and the access 
hatch are secured in place.   The concrete is spread into place with rakes.   And, it’s vibrated to help it consolidate 
and flow around the dense mesh of rebar.   You can see the air bubbles coming up out 
of the concrete as it’s vibrated into place.   The finishing crew carefully floats the 
surface all around the penetrations. The foundation for the light pole 
gets concrete in the drilled hole.   And then it gets more concrete in the trench 
carrying the electrical conduit that will deliver   power to the light. This is a perfect example of 
the pace of heavy construction. It’s taken days   and weeks of hard work to get this light pole and 
wet well cover slab formed and ready for concrete.   And then, the trucks and finishing crews arrive 
and are done with the pour before lunch time. A few more structures need to be installed 
before the concrete on this job is mostly over.   One is the slab that will hold a diesel 
pump that can be turned on in the event   of an emergency or power outage when 
the main pumps are out of service.   The subgrade below the slab gets backfilled 
and compacted. Electrical conduits are   installed that will carry the control 
cables. Then the concrete can go in. The wet well also gets an electrical rack to 
hold all the connections between the panels,   sensors, and pumps. There will also be 
an outlet here for any equipment needed   to service the wet well when it’s complete. 
The conduits stub up from their underground   trenches and the wet well cover slab here. 
The carpenters assemble the formwork. And, the  fresh concrete is placed inside.   Once the concrete is cured, the forms are stripped 
off these slabs and they get compacted backfill   around the sides. Before long, the electricians 
have the rack and junction boxes installed at the   wet well. And while they're backfilling, the crews 
finish installing those concrete retainers. You   can really see how soil might collapse into the 
void forms below the wet well lid without them.   Another concrete placement is for a curb 
that surrounds the diesel pump slab.   If the pump ever leaks fuel, this curb will keep 
the diesel from contaminating the adjacent soil.   A pipe with a valve makes it possible to 
drain the containment area of rainwater. The last place we need some concrete, 
for now, is at the new manholes. The   cast iron covers have already been installed 
on the concrete manholes, and now they need   concrete around the rim and valve box covers. 
This area is backfilled with select material;   compacted, and formed. Then the concrete 
is placed as required in the plans. Remember that these manholes aren’t doing 
anything yet. The active sewer lines are   still running straight through them with no 
connection. One thing that’s needed before   those lines can be cut is on its way. 
But they need to be cleaned out first. A   crew power washes the inside of both manholes 
and the wet well in preparation for what’s next.   That’s the job of this box 
truck pulling into the site.   If sewage decomposes without a good supply of 
fresh air, it can generate hydrogen sulfide gas.   This gas is not only poisonous, but also 
extremely corrosive to steel and concrete.   To protect these new structures from the 
challenging environment in a wastewater system,   the walls and floor of the manholes and lift 
station wet well will get a spray-on epoxy liner.   The worker dons a protective suit and 
respirator before descending into each   manhole to apply the coating. The gun mixes the 
two part epoxy right before it exits the nozzle.   Touch ups are applied topside.   Next, another worker uses a trowel to smooth 
the lining and ensure consistent coverage.   It only takes a few hours for the 
epoxy to fully cure and harden. The parts of the wet well that won’t be lined 
are masked off first. Then the spray lining is   applied to the inside walls. The worker checks 
the thickness of the wet epoxy to make sure he’s   applying the right amount. The manholes and wet 
well are now considered “confined spaces,” so   there are special safety precautions about 
working inside them. The crew uses a gas   meter to check for a hazardous atmosphere. They 
use ventilation fans to keep fresh air flowing.   They have a rescue winch installed to lift the 
worker out of the hole if anything were to happen.   And they have a spotter whose only job is to 
keep an eye on the worker inside to make sure   they’re staying safe. Before long, the entire wet 
well walls are lined with the protective coating.   The masking is removed from the access hatch.   And, this team will be back once the bottom of 
the wet well is finished to complete the job. The concrete slabs are almost all complete. 
The manholes are ready for wastewater;   The electrical shelter is ready for equipment; and 
the wet well is ready for pumps. It seems like a   lot is left to be done, but these last steps 
of the project will happen before you know it,   and we’ll see the San Antonio River Authority’s 
newest lift station start up for the very first   time. That’s the next and final episode 
of this series on Practical Construction. A few statistics you might find interesting: This 
project took about ten months total from start to   finish. We were on site a full 70 days throughout 
construction to capture the all the footage you’ve   seen so far, and the last episode took 20 more 
days of shooting. That episode is live on Nebula   right now at the link in the description if 
you can’t wait to see the rest. I had to get   a drone license (and a drone); New camera gear, 
including solar-powered time lapse rigs that   sometimes worked and sometimes didn’t; We had 
to upgrade computers and storage to handle all   the 4K footage; work with lawyers and insurance 
to be on a construction site. We got production   help for graphics, color correction, editing, and 
even had music composed for the show. All this to   say that producing Practical Construction has 
been a huge leap from the normal videos I make   on this channel, building garage demonstrations 
and talking to the camera in my spare bedroom. This series was meant as a pilot to see if we 
viewership and interest could justify all the   extra cost and effort that went into documenting 
this project. You can look at the stats on   YouTube: the viewership isn’t anywhere close 
to my normal videos. But that doesn’t tell the   whole story, because a big portion of the people 
watching the series are doing it on Nebula. You   know about Nebula by now, the streaming platform 
built by and for independent creators. You could   never get a show like Practical Construction 
greenlit on a TV network these days unless   it was full of drama, fake cliff hangers, 
and fluff. I don’t want to watch that show,   and I don’t think you do either. So consider 
subscribing to a streaming platform that actually   empowers independent creators like me to make 
shows like this. Nebula has totally ad-free videos   from excellent educational channels, original 
series and specials that can’t be found anywhere   else, and even classes from your favorite 
creators like Sam from Wendover Productions. Watching the last episode of Practical 
Construction a full 2 weeks early is dead simple:   click the link below and you’ll get 40% off an 
annual plan. That means you pay just one time,   30 dollars, for an entire year’s access to Nebula. 
That’s less than 3 dollars a month. Help me show   the world how cool construction can be without 
having to turn it into a reality show by clicking   that link in the description below. Thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think.