- [MrBeast] Me and the
boys are going to win every single prize at one
of the largest theme parks in America. These dots are where the games are at. We are going to go to every single dot and win every single prize. There are a ton of games like ring toss, balloon
pop, water squirter, basketball, and many more. Dusty, win every prize here. Chandler, you played baseball,
you wanna take this one? - [Chandler] I got it. - Christopher, you like water. - I do like water. - You're in charge of this one. Ty, do you wanna play with him? - [Chris] Ty, play with me. - Yeah, I shall play with you. - The rules for this game is you have to knock all three blocks off with one throw. (balls thudding) (somber music) - Dude, watch this. Still nothing. - [MrBeast] Did you guys win? - I did. (bell ringing) (men cheering) - [Chandler] Okay, I'm going home. - Across, man. - [Cameraman] I think
Chandler's pile is bigger. - [MrBeast] Chandler,
you guys are killing it. - Winning these challenges
was unbearably hard. - All right, this is where
we're gonna be storing all our prizes. - Pick up your toys. - There's gonna be like 10,000. (female employee yelling) (bell ringing) - [Female Employee] Keep
going, keep going, keep going. Looks like we have a winner! - Yeah! - It looks like we have a winner. - [MrBeast] Chris, Ty,
you guys are killing it. How many prizes do they already have? - Well, somebody wins every time you play. (upbeat music) - So far we've won about 3% of the prizes. - Bulbasaur, I choose you. It's not very effective. - There's so much stuff. We're gonna need like eight more hours. Ty, come here. What are you good at? - I'm good at basketball. - All right, win every prize. What do you wanna do? - Whatever. - We need all hands on deck. - I'll win anything, man. - Go down there and pick one. There's literally only nine prizes, Chandler, can I trust you with this? - No. - All right, well, you and
Marcus are in charge of it. I can trust you? - You can trust me. - All right, keep him
straight, win some stuff. All right, I have about 10 people playing 10 different games,
we will win every prize. Apparently, if you hit
five shots in a row, you win everything. - [Male Employee] There you go! - [MrBeast] Two. - [Cameraman] You win a prize, right? - Yeah. He's probably already won everything. Four. (crowd groans) Oh no! - [Cameraman] Okay, okay. - Oh, it's like a game now. Have you ever seen somebody
have to get the stick at Six Flags? - [MrBeast] You guys
cleared out shop over here. - We got a lot of prizes. - [MrBeast] What about that side? - [Dusty] Those are the display ones. - [MrBeast] We can't win those? - No. - No, they're display. - [MrBeast] All right, well,
if this is all we can win, let's get them over, Dusty. - There you go, that's one. Hey, that's two. That's three. Four. Hey, one more. (crowd cheering) - Good job, Ty, cleared out shop. - Do the flea flicker. Flea flicker. Getting all our prizes, we just won 23. That's what we do, we
win big here, boys, oh! Invest, ShopMrBeast.com. - I'm sweaty. - [Cameraman] What are you going to do with all these basketballs? - Put them in a pile of
everything else, come on. - Did you finish winning your game too? - Yeah. Did you finish winning yours? - I did, I got some cool piggos. - It doesn't look like you won that much. - I got some more boys
carrying them for me. We did it. - [Man] I can't get on the last one. - So as you can see, there's
people in the background. That is because this theme park, one of the most busiest
ones in America just opened, so you take a YouTuber with
20 million subscribers, you put him a very public
location to film a video, it's not a great formula. Chandler, we have to win the prizes here. I need you to hang for 90 seconds. 60 seconds left. - When you let go of
your thumb, you let go. - Five down. Six down, that's display, we can't win it. Number seven, that is seven
games completely cleared out. And from those seven games,
these are all the prizes we won. Hi, Squirtle. Now this may look like a lot, it's literally like 1,000 stuffed animals. We're not even a quarter of the way done, so we're about to take
things to the extreme. All right, Chandler, I need
you to win all the prizes here. Guys, he's in charge of
it, don't let him leave. Win them all, okay,
son, can I count on you? - Yeah, Dad. - I know I can't count on him. Marcus and Chris, you guys
are good at Wackamole, have at it. - I'm gonna win. - [Male Employee] Three,
two, one, go, go, go! - [MrBeast] Marcus is winning. - [Male Employee] And we have a winner. - Oh, that's it. (upbeat music) (bell ringing) (somber music) - [MrBeast] Chandler, how you doing? - Dude, I'm hanging in there, man. - [MrBeast] Dude, only the top row left. - Yeah. - [MrBeast] You're doing good. - [Chandler] Can I get food after this? - [MrBeast] Chandler, if
you win every prize here, I'll get you food. - Chicken tenders and nacho cheese. - [MrBeast] Yes. - That's all I want. - Okay.
- And a Dr. Pepper. - [MrBeast] There's still a row left. - All right. - [MrBeast] Guys, remember, you guys have to win every prize here. - Can we win all this stuff, or is this just display? - Everything up here is display, but I got a bunch in
here for y'all to win. - Let's do it. (bell ringing) (Marcus cheering) - He cheated. Oh, it's a sphere. - Sphere? It looks like a triangle to me. - Do you know what a triangle looks like? - No. - Oh, okay. (bell ringing) - [Male Employee] Winner, winner! - Let's go! - Here, let me go, let me go. I'll show Marcus who's boss. (bell ringing) - Yeah! - Hey, we won more prizes. - Yes, we are focusing on the prizes, not the competition. - [Marcus] Yeah, just prizes, look at all the prizes we have. (bell ringing) - [Male Employee] Hey, winner, winner! - What, he was getting more moles than me. See, pure skill can be
trying to be a cheater. (bell ringing) - [Male Employee] Hey, you got one! - Oh my god. - No skill, woo! (upbeat music) We won all this stuff by
whacking all these moles. - [MrBeast] Hey, well, congratulations, let's take these back, guys. - We gotta carry all this back? - Yes. There's one final step, we have to carry these to the pit. (Chandler sighs) We got more here. There we go. The whole squad is carrying your winnings, good job, brother. - Thank you, everyone, for helping me. Where are the chicken tenders? Good job, everyone. - The stack is getting quite large. - Our stacks are phat. - Dude, I whacked a lot of moles. You're welcome. - You still have a hat on. Is that a plunger? - This is mine, yes, it's a plunger. - [Cameraman] Chandler, what
are you doing right now? - Eating chicken tenders. - [Cameraman] Are you happy? - Chandler, I got your chicken. You got four buckets of chicken tenders. - I don't remember ordering that. - This is number nine. This is number 11, and it looks like we didn't win much, but we really did. We just had to leave prizes, 'cause they won't let us win everything, and if we clear out everything, that ruins the theme park. This is number 12, and as you see, we won all the prizes. This is number 13, and the
prizes were on the shelves. We can't win these things
hanging around the sides. So kids... My butt is being touched. I called you here today... Stop biting me and touching my butt, guys. - All right. - So who wants to do that? All right, Ty, you do it. - I have to do that? (group laughing) - You and Connor, go for it. Chandler, you like
basketball, you can do that. - Okay.
- I like basketball. - Who here do you like the best? - I like everyone. - Don't run away from me. - [Man] I like Nick. - All right, you're with Nick. Marcus, you're on squirting. - Okay. - Chris, you like to play with balls, so you can throw the balls. Luke, you play with balls too. - I'm gonna wear this jersey once I win. - [Cameraman] You're
gonna wear this jersey? - Yeah, watch. I missed it, hold on. All right, you know what, nevermind. (upbeat music) - [MrBeast] Hey,
Chandler, from back there. - Yeet. (group cheers) It worked when I said yeet. I said yeet! (mellow music) All right, that's the last one. Got the horses, man. All right, so we got these. - Chandler, I heard you won everything. - I won everything. - Oh my gosh, you're sweaty. - Yeah, dude, I'm grinding over here, working for these prizes. - [Cameraman] Connor, what's the trick to this one here? - There's no trick, it's just
losing and losing and losing. - [Cameraman] Oh, okay. You guys gotta win these prizes. These are the biggest prizes in the park, by the way, guys. Ty, you're almost there. No! - Hold my ball for me. That's hard. Connor! - [Cameraman] He's still on. Luke got one. Go Marcus, go Marcus! Yes! (upbeat music) Another one, yeah, Gary got it. - Does having a lot of people watch you make you nervous? - [Chris] A little bit, just a little bit. I feel like a zoo animal. (group cheering) - Here you go. - Thank you. - Another one down. Another one down. No prizes left. Another one done, these are
displays, we can't win them. We just won a lot of prizes, it's time we do another
trip back to our prize pit. - Yeah! - Everyone, be careful. Geez, this teddy bear
literally weighs 40 pounds. Here's all our new
stuff, come on brethren. Throw your 40 pound bears over there. It was nice knowing you, man. Have fun. Oh, we lost Chris. - I'm trying to move. Oh, you're sweaty! There's a basketball in my kidney. - What do you want to do? - Basketball.
- Go. What do you wanna do? - Soccer.
- Go. - The whole thing, first one
to hit it gets the whole thing. Big prize. Good job. Yeah, you're a winner. (dramatic music) Can we just steal them next time? - One ring on the bottle. - Like this?
- Yeah. - I decided to come
give these guys backup, they haven't won a single thing yet. I call this the blitz strategy. I don't think it's possible. I said the first one to hit one gets $500. First one to make a ring
on the cup wins $500. Go over there, they've been
doing it for 20 minutes, haven't landed a single one. First one to make a ring
on the cup wins $500. - [Crowd] Chandler, Chandler, Chandler! The world is cheering you on. 500 on the line, what are you gonna do? Boys, it's now $1,000
if any of you land it. How? How are we gonna win all the prizes, we can't even land one. This is 50. - Oh my gosh! - Here, hold on, let's
throw 1,000 at one time. - We all gotta make a toast. (group cheering) - [Group] Three, two, one, go! (group cheering) - That was me! - Play it in slow mo, who did it? I think I did it. - It was me. - All right, so we're
taking an L on this game. We only won one prize. I wanna win them all, but it would just take too long. So guys, we won almost every single prize in this entire park, almost. That bar hanging one, we cannot complete, and we missed the three point one. I know, Chandler's mad. We literally could not get to it without a crowd forming. Yeah, guys, we literally won, what five, six, seven,
10,000 different items? I don't know. - 10,000, probably. - I'm just making up a
number, 10,000 items. This took the entire day. Now if we're being honest, we have no use for all these toys, so we're actually gonna give
them back to the theme park, because I don't want them to go to waste. - But wait, I wanted to live here. - Well, Chris is now
living in the theme park. Do you want to live here? - No. - You wanna go get a hot dog? - Yes. - I'll wrap up the video,
I'll be there in a second. That's how you get rid of Chandler, you just tell him to go get a hot dog. And there you go, subscribe or I'll delete
your Fortnite account, actually Minecraft, 'cause
it's relevant again. - Help! Help! ♪ MrBeast6000 ♪ ♪ MrBeast6000, yeah, you know his name ♪ ♪ He changed it once or twice ♪ ♪ But I think it's here to stay ♪