Here in MSI's booth, they're showing off everything from laptops and monitors to car chargers But what I wasn't expecting was for them to get into a new category, which is paint Yeah, I pulled you into the video just to make that joke, sorry Cliff In all seriousness though, the MSI claw does a lot more than just change the color of the existing handheld gaming systems on the market From the outside, yeah, it bears a lot of similarity to a system like the ROG Ally or the Steam Deck But on the inside, it is running Intel's all-new Core Ultra Series processors Which promises some pretty interesting benefits. I'll get to that in a bit. First, I want to talk about what's special about the outside. But first this message from our sponsor Headphone juice is not something you should be proud of. These are your typical headphones that accumulate heat while you game Ew. Wicked Cushions add a cooling gel to their cushions to keep your ears sweat-free You can easily replace them on your headset. Check out Wicked Cushions at the link below While you can get Hall Effect joysticks as an add-on for consoles like the Steam Deck, MSI has opted to go for both Hall Effect joysticks and triggers right out of the box with the Claw I wasn't expecting this move after Valve stated they opted not to use Hall Effect joysticks over reliability concerns But given how much I prefer using them, it's definitely a welcome one to me Even if I don't know something could go wrong at some point. Other than that They've ticked all the important boxes. Dual stereo front-facing speakers that are not covered by your palms Love to see it. An integrated fingerprint sensor in the power button. A micro SD slot that Hopefully doesn't overheat and Good enough feeling buttons and ergonomics that I don't expect this to be an issue whether you're more of a Rested in front of you gamer, sit it in your lap gamer, or just hold it up gamer. Whether they came up with that on their own or Borrowed from their competitors. I don't know but realistically at this point It doesn't matter because there's one other standout feature that I absolutely love to see. Because they've gone Intel They have an integrated Thunderbolt 4 port, which means that like the Ally you'll be able to run an external graphics card on the claw But unlike the Ally you're not limited to Asus's proprietary XG mobile graphics interface. Now Thunderbolt does have a disadvantage This is Thunderbolt 4, not Thunderbolt 5, so it runs at half of the total bandwidth of Asus's solution But as long as you're not hooking a 4080 or a 4090 up to this thing You can still get a healthy graphics boost by docking it to a GPU. And a part of what enables that is the strong CPU performance of the Meteor Lake Core Ultra 5 or Core Ultra 7 processors that are at the heart of these things Which of course we're about to take a look at here Hey, no, no, you're not gonna break that one. What? You can try this one. I want the real one. Oh, is this just a dummy one? No, it's actually functional. Oh Well, then why is this a sacrificial lamb? Because this one is more important. Okay Fair enough to even get to open it for you guys at all. I had to sign away my life They said they want two free sponsored videos if I break it Yep. But you said this one's not important. Not as important. After all the shenanigans I've gotten up to in their booths over the years I'm surprised they're letting me do this at all but I couldn't resist an opportunity to show off the very early prototype of our precision screwdriver kit coming soon to lttstore.com and besides a big selling point of competing handhelds like especially the Steam Deck is the ease with which they can be opened up and Upgraded or repaired so I would like to see if that's something that can also be said about the Claw We're off to a good start six screws all of which are the same Oh And a fairly easy Single piece back that gives us let's see. Oh A dual heat pipe cooling system love to see it. My goodness No, what I didn't even think about it But that was running Assassin's Creed Mirage and I could- I mean I'm in a show floor, but I could barely hear it Not bad MSI not bad There's actually a lot to appreciate in here for one thing Look at this battery. I was wondering how they packed a 53 watt hour battery into this thing and I guess the answer is with a really funky shape but that's a really good thing it contributes to a really even hand feel and Intel claims will give you a full two hours of battery life running full tilt at the 35 watt maximum TDP that this thing will do when it's running on battery power They claim more like eight hours when it's running in the 10 watt endurance mode And there's more good news The Wi-Fi module is not soldered and we saw the importance of this when valve Upgraded the Steam Deck to the Steam Deck OLED and we saw a dramatic increase in download speeds when they went from Wi-Fi 5 to Wi-Fi 6e of course That's gonna be less of an issue on the claw in the first place because it ships with Wi-Fi 7 meaning you're probably gonna run Into a CPU bottleneck for downloading games before you max out your Wi-Fi as an added bonus with that chip While you can use the three and a half millimeter headphone microphone combo jack It's Bluetooth 5.4 Meaning that with a compatible headset you can expect much lower latency even over traditionally kind of crappy Bluetooth Coming back to that CPU again There are two different chips that you might find in the MSI Claw the Core Ultra 5 135H or the Core Ultra 7 155H both of them have two of what Intel are calling low power efficiency cores Which are basically just the same as their regular efficiency cores, but built on a different process and tuned to handle background tasks They both have eight regular efficiency cores. And then the difference is they have either four or six Performance or P cores so depending on the triple-A games that you might want to play It could make more sense to go for the 155H especially given the relatively low difference in price. End of Q1? Yes. At three different price points starting at $699 with the middle one looking like the best one in my mind because that 512 gig SSD can easily be upgraded just by removing a few screws and popping in a new 2230 m.2 SSD. Oh and all my excitement about the speeds and feeds I kind of glossed over a major detail. The screen is 1080p 120 Hertz and should reach a peak brightness of around 400 to 500 nits So about what you'd expect for a machine of this class, just like you'd expect this segue to our sponsor Are your headphones cushions hot like a tiny steam room? Stop steaming your ears like your broccoli. Wicked cushions offer all sorts of cushion replacement for your headphones And it's not just your regular cushions. With added dual layer cooling gel They ensure you keep a cool head even your team is feeding. Looking for a crack? Wicked cushion gives you a crack free comfort They use top-notch materials like breathable sport fabric and memory foam. With over 25,000 reviews and a 365 days to fall in love warranty. Don't listen to me listen to your ears this time Check out wicked cushions at the link below. If you guys enjoyed this video Hopefully you're enjoying the rest of our CES coverage. And if you're not well go watch it. I know you will Enjoy it that is I don't know you'll watch it. I hope you do