- Hello, good morning! And today we've just gotten
our first look at Xbox Series X Gameplay with huge titles such as Halo, Forza, and many, many more. Let's actually compare
how the Xbox Series X is now shaping up with some of the excellent-looking PS5
gameplay we already have. So one of the interesting
thing is that all of the games shown off at this
morning's Xbox presentation are all actually being
available on Xbox Game Pass. Now that is something which is cool, 'cause obviously Game Pass means that you get all this stuff for free, and you also get it all
immediately on day one. But let's actually take a
closer look before we dive into the big stuff like Halo. It's some of the launch titles that are being brought over to Series X, 'cause as far as I'm concerned this almost tells us more
about the performance and the power of the console when you look at something like Ori. Now Ori was a great looking game. It's a little on the simpler side on something like the Xbox One. What we're getting on the Series X is full 4K HDR 120 frames
per second support. That is something which, if you would have asked me six months ago, I would have not expected to
see the console generation. But it makes a lot of sense. These consoles are capable of 4K and 120 frames per
second at the same time. And it's really encouraging
to see on pretty much day one of the console launch. We're going to see at least some games, and admittedly stuff that
may be on the older side. We're going to see games
that are going to be fully supporting that. Now it's interesting to compare this with something like Spider-man
Miles Morales on the PS5, which is sort of an
interesting blend of a game. Now obviously we don't have
a ton of gameplay on that, it's a little it more of a
cinematic trailer at the moment. But the thing with Spider-man
is, this in a lot of ways feels like it's more of a kind of, I don't want to say expansion pack, 'cause that's obviously
not quite this case, but it seems like very much a little bit of a smaller scope game
when you look at this compared to the PS4 version of Spider-man. Now there's nothing wrong with that, obviously there is gonna
be a lot of new content, whereas a lot of these
games for the Series X are just straight
getting a patched come-up for the Series X. But the thing is, I think
it's really interesting to look at the approach
that Sony is taking versus Microsoft here. Sony are going into this with like, "Hey, you know what? "We're not really focusing a lot "on the PS4 backwards compatibility." They're not really
talking a lot about games that are getting patches to work on PS5, whereas Xbox has been all about that. Now obviously I like the idea
of buying my Xbox Series X, plugging it in and on day
one having all of these games that are already optimized for Series X. But it's interesting
to look at the way that each of these companies
are tackling this problem. Now part of that will certainly
will come down to the fact that while, yes, they are both
huge technical leaps forward, there are certainly advantages
on the Xbox side, right? While the PS5 does have a faster SSD, the Xbox has a slightly faster CPU and a significantly more
powerful graphics chip. And as we'll talk about a little bit later when we get into more of
the head-to-head stuff, I'm going to be really curious to see how some of these things line up. Because especially when
you look at how heavily the ray-tracing implementations
are really going to play into this next
generation of consoles, I think it's going to be really
interesting to see exactly how much muscle these consoles have to truly push the visuals that you expect out of a new generation. Now there are a lot of other new updates, say for example, Forza Horizon 4 is going to be running
at a full 4K 60 Hertz. Now some titles, such
as these Next Gen games like Watch Dogs: Legion, we don't have a lot of information on, but we can see that there's
things like ray-tracing which are being implemented. Surprise, surprise. Obviously we've already seen
some PC previews of Watch Dogs, and they look great. Some of the other games that
are being updated include, not only Dirt 5, which I will say is actually
one of the very few games, especially considering
it's a third party title, which will be supporting
not only 4K resolution, but frame rates up to
120 frames per second. Now obviously when we talk about
the high frame rate gaming, it's kinda difficult to sort
of really get a good idea that on stream, where you're
obviously not going to be able to see 120 frames per second, but for me that's one of the
things I'm most excited about for this console generation. It's obviously a feature
we've had on the PC for a very long time, and the ability to have
120 frames per second games right out the gate is
really exciting, right? And obviously this is
something we're going to see on the PS5 side as well, but it's nice to see that developers are feeling confident
enough to really make this a huge priority day one,
versus like four years from now we start seeing some games
that are starting to push it. I mean it's easy to forget, that a lot of the previous generation especially on the base Xbox One, we're running games at like 30 FPS. Now sure, I'm assuming that there will be some 30 FPS games here and there, but generally speaking
we're seeing a lot of 60 FPS and a lot of games that are
reaching for that 120 FPS which is gonna make a big difference. Again, what we actually have
a lot of experience with is Gears 5 running on the Series X. 'Cause we're actually able
to play a little bit of that back in our early preview
in February or March or in the before time. So we know for a fact they're pushing the envelope on this one. So we know that they're
running ultra textures, some actual details that
are running above PC spec. And we also have a little
bit of a better idea of some other games,
such as Sea of Thieves, which are getting a full Series X pass. In fact, that's one of
the nice things about this is that a lot of these games
that Xbox have announced today, are sort of easy free patches that you don't even need
to worry about, right? You install the game that
you already play on Xbox One, and it will be not only
running on Series X, but importantly, it will be
getting a sometimes minor, but sometimes pretty
major graphical update. And this also applies to a
lot of third party titles. So we already know a bunch of
titles such as like Cyberpunk are going to be supported on the Series X, but we also have stuff like
Assassin's Creed of Halo, which while they're a little bit vague on like exactly how far
they're pushing the hardware, we do know the targeting
things like 4k, 60 all that kind of stuff. And a lot of the gameplay
and (clears throat) gameplay we've seen about
it looks solid so far. Now the game I was really
excited to see today is the brand new edition
of Forza Motorsport. So this is the main line entry and they've sort of dropped the numbers. But essentially while we only
got a very small trailer, so you look at something like Gran Turismo where we actually got real gameplay and even the menu and stuff,
it's kind of hard to judge. But when you put these
two titles side by side, I think this might be the best
like apples apples comparison with the PS5 and the Xbox Series X. So let's take a closer
look at Forza first. So we see a lot of things on display. So first of all, and something
kind of interesting to me, even though Microsoft
had talked a lot about a lot of these games are going
to be across generations. So for example, Halo runs on
Xbox One and PC and Series X, this new Forza game, which
is early in development, so we don't even know
when it's coming out, is an exclusive to the PC and specifically to the Xbox Series X. So that means that some of these
things such as Ray tracing, I think should be pretty much
standard across the board. Now Gran Turismo also
does feature Ray tracing, and honestly, you look at
some of the stuff like this. I mean, you look at the Garage games, it looks incredibly good. If you do some pixel peeping, you'll see the Ray tracing implementation is a little bit lower resolution. Now based on this Forza footage, it's a little bit hard to see, but my assumption is that
while both of these consoles do have what seems to be pretty
solid Ray tracing capability, it might not quite be on the
same level of something like the RTX cards that you get on the PC. That being said though, the
level of detail that you can see in this clip, I think is
really interesting because, for Forza, it's a game that obviously has always prided itself on sort of being a little bit more realistic, right? And same thing with Gran Turismo, right? I would feel like these are
very sort of similar games. I'm really curious to see
exactly how they stack up, because right now they're
pretty much matching each other. Ray tracing, HDR, 4k,
60 frames per second, all of that stuff. What happens when we get
maybe a 120 FPS option? What happens when you start pushing the envelope a little bit more? I wanna see more footage,
but from what I've seen, I'm very excited for Forza. But man, that could give us like a little bit of gameplay. I mean, it's all an engine, but like, it just wasn't very long. The game we think everyone
was really excited to see today is Halo Infinite. Now we've seen this tease
for quite a while, all right? So we saw it at E3 2018,
a brief little teaser. We saw a lot more of it last year at E3, we saw a little bit of
it at the Game Awards. This is a game that I think
a lot of people are hyped for and there's a lot going for it. But also while it's probably
our best representation of some real gameplay, right? So they showed us the menu, they showed us what I assume
was a very fast loading screen and a few minutes of the campaign. My main takeaway here is that
while yes, it looks good. This is an Xbox One game, right? Don't forget, this is an Xbox One game that is optimized for XBox Series X. And while that might not sound
like a strong distinction, this is a game that has been
in development for years right? And with that sort of base Xbox One and One X sort of in mind, I think it limits a little
bit the scope and the scale. So let me talk a bit about that. So the Halo Infinite that we've seen was running on Series X. Now we do know that it's running at 4k, we know that it is
running at a locked 60 FPS and the performance looked good. It's always hard to
judge the image quality when you're watching a
YouTube or a Twitch stream, especially when you
look at like live stuff, it's a little bit sort of low bit rate. You lose a lot of the detail,
gets a little crunchy, but from what I could
tell, it looked good. Especially when you look
at the cut scene, right? So the cut scene did a
good job of showing off the lighting especially. You look at like the
faces, it looks great. And like that depth of field
was very, very natural. It looked cinematic, right? And especially how they
transitioned very seamlessly from the cut scene to the
actual gameplay, great. The gameplay itself looked fun, right? I mean, it looks like Halo,
as you expect Halo to play. There are a couple of new additions, but I think my big takeaway here, is if you look at Halo Infinite, combined with something like
Ratchet & Clank on the PS5, which is probably the best example of PS5 gameplay we have right now. I mean, I love Horizon, it's
a very cool looking game, but that was a trailer, right? That's not real gameplay,
it's a little hard to compare. So if you look at Ratchet & Clank, obviously this is a very, very
different art style, right? So it's much more colorful,
it's much more poppy. So you really can't do an apples to apples,
comparison of graphics. But my real takeaway
is that Ratchet & Clank was really taking advantage of the PS5, in a way that it kind of feels
like Halo Infinite isn't. So as a game that has to work on Xbox One, all the way up to Series X, to me, it looks like the Series X version is just running at a higher
resolution with better textures and all the kind of stuff that you expect out of other Xbox One games that are being ported to the Series X. There's nothing wrong with that. And I do know that the
actual scope of Halo Infinite is much larger than before, right? So they've said something like
it's several times larger. One of the Halo rings
is several times larger than the previous Halo games combined. Look man, I've up very early this morning. So the scaler is cool there, but like I'm not out here to play games that are a huge open world, right? I mean, obviously something
like Red Dead or GTA five, I mean, these are huge open world games that we're able to run last generation. That's cool, but that doesn't sort of give you that huge scale. Now sure I'd bet Elevator
at the beginning was a cool sort of shot to show like,
hey look, this world is big, there's a lot of verticality there. But I'm excited to play
Halo, I think it's very cool. But I don't think it's
showing the Xbox Series X off at its true potential. And I think that when you
look at some other games that are coming out, I think there's a little bit more that can be pulled out of this. But actually before the event started, I sat down with Jeff Keeley
for the Xbox pre-show and talked a lot about my expectations for what I really think the
Xbox Series X is capable of. - Also I wanted to ask you about the specs and the frame rates and
all that type of stuff, you live in the world of tech and our DNA, our
architectures and whatnot. Like what does that
all mean to the gamers? Like how do you think the games
are going to be different? Or what are the things
we should look for here and Ray tracing and things like that, like what do you think are
gonna be some of the big leaps that we're gonna see, in some of these games, hopefully today? - So I think the interesting
way of looking at sort of the previous generation
sort of Xbox One PS4, going into this new generation, is that it's a much more
well rounded package, right? So you look at something
like the Xbox Series X, spec wise, it is equivalent
to a very high end gaming PC. That's not something we've seen in the console space
for a long time, right? You look at the Xbox One,
it had good graphics, right? It was able to provide some
really impressive games. You'll get something like Red Dead 2 running on an original Xbox One, it's really impressive that that was able to be sort of accomplished. But the thing is this
generation with the Series X, we have now the SSD, which I think people are going
to very quickly get used to not minute load times, but
a few second load times. But also you have that
really powerful CPU, which is going to enable
these bigger open worlds sort of more interesting looking physics. And then you have on the graphic side, now only sort of more detailed things. And I think the higher frame
rates are something that, especially as more and
more TVs are developing that sort of tech that people are gonna really
start to appreciate. But also these new features
like Ray tracing, right? Which are just going to
help ground these worlds in a much more sort of
realistic sort of location. Like I guess for me, it's
more about making the console a much more complete package, right? You're not sort of
sacrificing because you're playing games on your PC
versus your Xbox or anything. Like you're gonna be getting a very similar level of performance. And a lot of cases,
something like the Series X is going to be significantly more powerful than any other gaming device in your home. So the summer of consoles
is fully upon us. So hopefully you guys enjoy, make sure to subscribe to the channel for lots more content on the
PS5 and the Xbox Series X, including maybe some new
hardware announcements in the next few months hopefully. So thank you very much for watching. And now if you'll, excuse
me, I'm gonna go take a nap. - [Ken] An Infinite nap? - No, I don't know what... - [Man] That's called dead. - That's dead, Ken.