- Hey guys, this is Austin! And welcome to the loudest
video I have ever made! If you can't tell right now,
Diplo is playing behind me! It's quite loud here! So the new Motorola
Razr is a folding phone. So if you've seen the Galaxy Fold, you'll have a little bit of
an idea of what to expect. Although, instead of having
the fold on the inside, with a sort of weird screen, you actually have a proper, flip phone. So it's very un-menacing
when you look at the design, especially on the bottom
of of the little chin area, we have the speaker, the USB-C port, as well as the fingerprint sensor. But the thing that really
jumps out to me about this, is it's actually really well done. So with the Razr, what you're getting here is a 6.2 inch pOLED display. Now like in the Galaxy
Fold, it is very flexible, so you can easily open and close it, but unlike on the Galaxy Fold, it's actually, I don't
wanna say perfectly smooth, because you can feel there's a little bit of a metal mechanism
underneath the screen. But there's no real crease in it, it's actually really impressive to use. While it's a little bit
bigger than the original Razr, what I'm impressed with, is
it's the exact same thickness, as that OG Razr. Like seriously! It is 13 millimeters thick
when it's open or closed. So with the Motorola Razr,
what we're getting is a phone which is running Android, but it is a much more modern
take on the standard Razr. So, to talk to the Android expert himself. (upbeat music) Hi, don't you love these video conditions? Anyway, that was a word
from Marques Brownlee. Noted YouTube celebrity and
huge fan of the Motorola Razr, specifically this event! Don't you love the lighting and the lack of any kind of
ability to speak in here? - Absolutely! I couldn't even hear
you, I'm just agreeing. - It's a good general strategy in life! While I'm jamming out to Diplo, being a cool kid, like the cool kids do, let's talk about what
makes the Razr special. So with that 6.2 inch pOLED display, what you're getting is something
which is a foldable phone, but it's actually in a
reasonable form factor. So one of the things that really struck me with the Galaxy Fold, is that it's cool, but it doesn't actually
seem particularly practical. However with this, I'm a little bit concerned
about durability, so as you go to close the phone, you'll see there's actually
a little bit of a gap in the, underneath the hinge, as well as, when you look at the bottom of the screen, it actually tucks in
and out as you fold it. But generally speaking, in the hand, it does feel fairly sturdy. There also is a front-facing display, which is again, very similar
to what you get on the Razr. What's cool about it, is that
you can use it for the camera, which is nice for taking selfies with the main shooter,
since it's on the outside. Now one the things which
I am not a huge fan of, is the actual spec of the phone, as it's running a Snapdragon 710. So if you're familiar
with the Snapdragon 710, it has graced such wonderful devices, such as the Smartisan Nut Pro 2S, the Mystery Tech phone that
we took a look at recently. And by recently I mean last year. Look, it's weird that
this is a very expensive, high-end phone that has a
mid-range 2018 processor, but, they definitely spent a
lot of money on the design, on the screen, it does actually
feel really impressive. Is it easy to recommend a
$1,500 (cha-ching) phone? Yeah, I mean it's cheaper
then the Galaxy Fold, but it is a $1,500 phone! A lot of the specs, realistically, with this phone are fairly underwhelming. The processor isn't anything
on special, that's very bright. As well as you're getting a okay camera. It's not actually that good, but I mean, from my early testing,
it seems to be fine, especially, it's very dark in
here, it's kinda hard to tell. It doesn't have a massive battery, I think it's somewhere in the neighborhood of about 2,500 milliamp hours, but the thing is, the Razr
is not a practical choice. This is not a phone which
you can just say, oh yes! Obviously, that's the new
phone I'm going to use. It's a novelty, it's something cool, it's something very different
and unlike something like, I gotta, I keep bringing
up the Galaxy Fold. It's really the only major competition, there's actually a real use for the Razr. The Galaxy Fold is great, but you know it's gonna
break in like five seconds. This is a much smaller
phone and importantly, it still seems usable, right? Like once you open it
up, it's not that big, it's not that wide. It just kinda feels like a normal phone. When you fold it, it is much, much smaller and I appreciate that. That's a legit gimmick,
it's not just like, oh, we've got a giant tablet. It's like, no, this is a normal phone, which is half the size
it normally should be. The thing is with the Razr, it's cool. It's something which I'm honestly, really excited to check out, so the pre-orders go live in December and this should go on sale, ow that hurt! This phone goes on sale right around CES, or early January of next year. $1,500 is hard to justify! I mean, it is really,
really hard to justify, but especially when you look
back at the original Razr, there's definitely a lot
of nostalgia there, right? I mean there's nostalgia
for flipping your phone. Hey Ken, how's it going? Oh you didn't spend enough
money on Mystery Tech! (clicks phone) Come on, we all miss that, right? So to sum my thoughts
on the Motorola Razr, essentially, it's Diplo approved! And also, I probably should
go back to the studio and talk more about the
original Razr right now! (upbeat music)