- 1080P became the
ultimate goal for gamers back when the seventh
generation of consoles launched, and even the PCs of mere mortals were able to reach that
holy grail with AAA titles by the time the Radeon HD
5970 and G-Force GTX 480 came out in 2010. So why are we still getting excited about 1080P graphics cards in 2021, especially when they
cost, what almost $400? Am I in a time loop? Oh man, not again! Maybe if I review it, it'll stop, or maybe if I tell you
about our sponsor, iFixit. Do you like to repair your own electronics instead of having to spend hundreds on expensive replacement
or repair services? Find out more about iFixit's
Essential Electronics Toolkit at the end of the video. (upbeat techno music) The RX 6600 XT is a strange
release in many ways. Yeah, it makes sense to release a GPU that's less than half the
die size of the RX 6800XT. And, yeah, it makes sense that it would use 16 gigabit GDDR6 chips. Both of those things make it far easier to manage supply constraints that have been strangling production and are projected to continue
into 2022 or even 2023, depending on who you ask. No, what's strange is the pricing, which we will get to, I promise, but also the fact that because there isn't an AMD branded card this time around, AMD
has made the decision to send factory overclocked
cards to reviewers, which means that everything
you see from this point on needs to be taken with a pinch of salt. Sure, the card has all
the same basic features. It's got eight gigabytes of
GDDR6 memory, 32 compute units, and as many megs of infinity cache, and all the goodies that come with RDNA2, like Ray Accelerators,
real-time Ray tracing support, but that's where the similarities between the basic spec and
what they've sent us end. And what they've sent us is AsRock's seriously overbuilt
Phantom Gaming D card. With a whopping three fans
and as many heat pipes to handle the 160 Watts worth of heat this thing is supposed to be kicking out. The overclock itself is pretty mild at about 80 megahertz in game and under 20 megahertz at peak boost, which Andy says will be typical of other factory overclocked cards, so this atypical cooler
is probably overkill. The back plate for its part is thin and seems to mostly be for show with what looks to be a pair
of thick boy thermal pads on the back of the PCB. I say looks like, because in order to
get the back plate off, you need to take the cooler off, and we've got benchmarks to do before we mess with the card's
thermal characteristics. You know the drill: GPU
bench, latest updates, AMD's immediate family,
and the two Nvidia GPUs that the 6600 XT is most
likely to take head-on. You'll note we're using
more RAM than before. Dual write memory is good
for you, you should try it. Helps keep Ryzen fed anyway. All our games will be
running 1080P max settings with Ray tracing turned to
minimum where applicable. Starting off with some surprising wins, Forza Horizon 4 and
Assassin's Creed Valhalla put AMD's mid tier GPU ahead
of NVIDIA's RTX 3060 Ti by about 15 to 25%, which
is absolutely fantastic considering the cards are
priced so close together. Unfortunately, this
pattern doesn't hold up as we move on to other
games like Final Fantasy 14 and F1 2021, where even
with Ray tracing off, the Radeon loses out by about 10%, putting it closer to the cheaper RTX 3060. This gets even worse when
Ray tracing is enabled and especially for a
global illumination title like Metro Exodus, where we see the diminished
Ray Accelerator count really bring the pain. Thankfully, global illumination
is not really common yet, but it's worth testing them all the same. None of these results are
especially bad, to be clear. The lowest non Ray tracing
result was still well over 60 FPS and 1% minimums. And it's consistently much
faster than the RTX 3060, but when you're forking
over 3060 Ti money, it all starts to look
like an advertisement for that card instead. As always with cards
this low on the ladder, productivity isn't a major consideration, but we're including benchmarks here, because it's very possible that you need something
affordable for work at home. And given that for $20 more, the RTX 3060 Ti punches up to trade blows with the RX 6700 XT, it's no surprise that the cutdown 6600 XT can't really compete here either
even against the RTX 3060. That's not to say that
there aren't some AMD wins in productivity though, even
though the infinity cache is much smaller with this card, its ridiculously fast speed helps it in memory intensive tasks like in the energy and
medical tests in SPECviewperf. Although, chances are this class of card will never see that kind of workload, so it's a hollow victory. Sort of like how our
water bottles are hollow. You gotta fill them
with victory, you know? Lttstore.com. For thermals, considering
neither the cooling nor the clocks are stock, and this card's probably not
destined for a workstation, we'll do something a
little different today and use two loops of five laps in F1 2021 to simulate gameplay and see if that game clock
can endure some heat. As it turns out, AMD's
total power estimate was pretty accurate, with an average of about
180 Watts and a peak of 225, well below the RTX 3060 Ti. But unfortunately also about
as far above the RTX 3060. The extremely overbuilt cooler does the job fantastically though, with temperatures hovering
around 60 degrees at all times in our closed chassis bench. It kept boosting too, with clocks throughout
the test staying stable at about that 2.6 gigahertz
advertised maximum. Not a bad showing at all, but then again, this is a factory overclocked card. Your mileage may vary. And here's another weird
thing about this launch. See these, these pins here. As the pre-launch rumor
suggested, they're 100% for show. You can even see where they stopped being connected to anything. Yeah, this GPU is wired for
only eight lanes of PCI Express, which seems like a waste of material. Like, why have a full
x16 cartridge connector filled out with pins? I guess it helps with physical stability? I mean, this genuinely threw me for a loop when I first noticed it,
but eight lanes of Gen 4 makes sense when you think about it. Not only are they equivalent
to 16 Gen 3 lanes, most GPUs at this performance level won't even begin to
utilize the full bandwidth of a 16 lane slot. This means that you're giving up nothing to use one of these cards in one x16 slot and then populate the
other with a dual NVMe card or something, without compromising the
performance of either. Heck, if you're not squeamish,
you can safely mod the card for use as a server chassis or something without losing any functionality. The pins simply are not connected. But now, we've gotta talk about the price. At $380 for the base
model, it's a steep ask. When this card was announced, we went into the reasons why
this price, while painful, makes sense in today's marketplace, but it's going to continue being compared to the launch price of the RTX 3060 and especially the 3060 Ti, which is priced very
competitively at $400. The only problem with this take though is those prices no longer
exist and arguably never did. Third parties were charging
well in excess of that before those cards launched. There's no founders edition for the 3060, and third parties are going
to prefer higher margin cards with the precious few
GPUs they're able to get. In my opinion, that MSRP only really exists
as a contractual obligation to make it seem like it's
cheaper than it really is in order to undercut the competition. And I suspect the same is true
of the RX 6600 XT's MSRP too. Just look at how much backlash
they got for saying $379. In fact, it seems that
they're so concerned with perception that they
wouldn't even tell us how much this particular AsRock card costs and neither did AsRock. If they pipe up before the video is done, I'll put the price on screen now. All of which is to say, it's impossible to tell
you what the real MSRP of any of these cards is other than what Nvidia
and AMD say they are. That makes it difficult to put the RX 6600 XT into perspective. On the one hand, it's
slower than the RTX 3060 Ti, that is its true price competitor, but on the other, whether
that price exists or not depends on who you ask. Our recommendation therefore is this: if MSRP matters to you, the RX 6600 XT is an underwhelming,
but not disastrous, GPU. You could do way worse. If features matter to you, the competition has DLSS
at this price point, and their video encoder is better for you streamers out there. And if scarcity pricing matters to you, well, our recommendation as
always is to get it if you can. Be careful though,
we've got a video coming on how scam GPUs are
becoming even weirder, so be sure to get subscribed
so you don't miss that. And okay, I know that
people don't like that buy it anyway recommendation. It sounds like I'm telling you to just be a mindless consumer, I get it, but the uncomfortable
truth for both you and I is that even if you don't want it, it's a sound move for as long
as demand outstrips supply. Thankfully, I've got more
than enough supply of segways for sponsors like iFixit. Thanks to iFixit for
sponsoring today's video. The iFixit Essential Electronics Toolkit is a great basic kit for new users. It gives you what you need for the most essential electronics
repairs in a compact size that includes the most
popular precision bits. They're all held in place
with high density foam, so you can throw it around without any of the bits falling out. They've got a lifetime warranty, so go ahead and get one
today at iFixit.com/LTT. Thanks for watching, guys. Go ahead and check out our recent video on just how viable old GPUs
can be for modern games. Maybe if you're still
rocking an old flagship, you don't need to worry about these selling out
right away, you know?