- Did you know that Sony still sell the PS4 brand new for $330? (dog groans) What, $330? Isn't that more than this was when it first came out in 2016? This is a brand new PlayStation 4. No, not a PS4 Pro, a PS5,
no, this is a PS4 Slim. Why are they selling a $330 PS4 that's almost 10 years
old when the PS5 exists? Let's find out. We're gonna crack the seal on one of the very last
brand new PS4s ever made. (Austin exhales) Goodbye, resale value. (bird squawks) Okay, it's done. - You did it.
- I did it. - Congratulations.
- Thank you, appreciate it. So for reference, you actually don't have to buy this specific console. So Sony actually are also selling the vanilla PS4s for 300 bucks. You'll find them in stock at
a couple of stores right now. But it does seem like they made a lot more of the "Modern Warfare" consoles,
which are 30 bucks extra, but does come with a
digital copy of the game. Oh, it's so little. Manufactured September of 2022. So it is confirmed. This is a brand new console that was manufactured
just a few months ago. So I spent about a week using the PS4 Slim and there's a lot of stuff that I like and a few things that I don't. So first thing I did was
actually upgrade the hard drive. Since the PlayStation has
started including hard drives all the way back on the PS2, you've always been able to do this and it is very straightforward
on the PS4 Slim. This model comes with a
one terabyte hard drive which is totally fine. But instead, for only 60 bucks, I upgraded this with a one terabyte SSD. Now, sure you can use the
hard drive that comes with it and it is going to be completely fine. But having the SSD is going to give me, not only a little bit more speed, especially when it comes to load times, but importantly, if you
are using a 500 GB PS4, you're gonna notice a
very, very real problem. PS4 games have gotten huge. I kind of knew this from the PS5, the games are 70, 80, 90 GBs. But I didn't really
realize the games on PS4, even the base model, are also still pretty much that same size, meaning that five or six AAA games and that 500 GB drive is full. So going up to one terabyte,
I think, is a no-brainer, especially at 60 bucks. It's easy, it's quick. I'm not saying that you need
to do this for your PS4, but I do think it actually made a little bit of a difference here. Something else that I've found with PS4 is how much I like this interface. Which to be fair, I also
love the XMB on the PS3 and not to say anything
negative about the PS5, I think it's also a a
nicely designed interface. But I was really kinda struck, especially with the SSD, of just how snappy everything feels. It could just be a little bit of a placebo 'cause it's not that big of a difference. But it definitely felt kind of pleasant going back to using the PS4. There were also some legitimate advantages to the software support on the PS4, specifically when it comes to media. So not only does it support
more file formats than the PS5, which doesn't support AVI or MPEG2, this also has much better audio
support with MOVs and MKVs and the PS4 support subtitles, which the PS5 is super spotty with. It's almost like they want
you to sign up for Crunchyroll instead of downloading
and loading up on a USB or anime or something. Not that Sony would ever
do something like that and nerf their newer console or anything. Now, yes, you only have
1080p out on the PS4, which I'll admit is a pretty big bummer. If you're watching something like Netflix and YouTube and stuff, those are all pretty much
the same experiences. Especially if you plan on using the PS4 as a little bit more of a media machine, there are some legitimate
advantages to this that the PS5 can't touch. It does kind of feel like Sony maybe watered the PS5 down a little bit, probably because they want
you to play games on it and especially when you consider the fact that if you want a disc drive in the PS5, that's $200 more than this, it does make actually the PS4
make a little bit more sense. But, I wish it had 4K support. Another breath of fresh air, not only does this come
with a full warranty, but importantly it's not,
how should I say this? Scuffed by GameStop. I'm not trying to throw
shade on GameStop or anything but while it might seem
crazy to spend $300 on a new PS4, GameStop
are selling these PS4s for 250 bucks and while
50 bucks is 50 bucks, having a brand new system
that has not been abused, doesn't have 10 year old thermal paste or six year old thermal
paste, it's not all gummed up. I can see a little bit
of an argument there because I think when
I went into this video I saw that Sony still sold a PS4. I'm like, "What? Why?" When you consider that PS4s
and especially PS4 Pros have kept such good resale value, it does kind of make sense for Sony to do another run of these. In fact, actually in the
middle of making this video, I was at Target and I actually saw a few PS4s on the shelves,
the only PlayStation that I actually could buy in the store. So clearly they're making these
and people are buying them. It's not just to plug
the hole in PS5 sales because they didn't have
enough to hit store shelves. The PS4 does actually have a real place. Now, I'm not gonna tell
you to buy one of these because it's gonna be
a great long-term play, but if you're considering
buying a PS4 now, the prices have not plummeted
like they did last generation. In fact, it's almost the opposite. These have hardly lost any value at all in the seven years that
the PS4 Slim is out. Just think about that for a second. Good? Yeah, that's what I thought. I can sit here and talk all
day long about the software and the hardware, but you buy
a PlayStation to play games and my biggest fear going into this video was how well the 10 year
old hardware would hold up with modern games because
it's easy to forget, this is still supported by
the vast majority of games that are coming out
into 2022 and into 2023. Mind you, we'll see how that evolves over the next year or two and we'll talk about that in a minute. But for games that you can play and that are coming out right now, the PS4 is still largely the console that they are developing for
and I'll tell you for sure this base PS4 is holding up a lot better than the Xbox One, which
feels like it's just waiting for someone to come and
put it out of its misery. The first game I played was "Warzone 2.0." Now again, this is a game, well technically "Modern Warfare," but this is a game that
was included in the box. So they're clearly trying to say that, "Hey, this is a great experience," and it's a pretty good experience. Now, "Warzone 2" definitely
feels like it has been designed with next generation consoles in mind and I do think this is
an area where the SSD that I installed here is making a little bit of a difference. It is a massive open world, it's like 150 players or something and I would say the experience
is generally pretty decent. When it comes to image quality, I think one of the things
that really jumps out to me is while obviously you're
running at lower settings and lower resolutions
and that kind of stuff, but the thing that is a
little bit bothersome, especially if you've played
any of the newer consoles, is how soft the image quality is. It's clearly they're doing a lot of things like temporal anti aliasing,
which is trying to reconstruct over multiple frames,
sort of extra details so that you can kind of mask
that lower sort of pixel count and I think it's largely successful. It just has this sort of side
effect of making everything just look a little like vaseliney. But if that's the trade off between being able to play these games and enjoy them on this older hardware, for me, I don't think it's
an unreasonable thing to do 'cause otherwise you can go
full Nintendo Switch mode and be playing at 480p and it's gonna look like garbage. All of these sort of
post-processing effects, especially in "Call of Duty"
with like the motion blur and the film grain and stuff,
it's trying to dress up an image which is a little bit subpar and I think it does a fairly
solid job and in fact, I would actually say the
performance is reasonable. You're not getting a locked
60 FPS most of the time, but it's also not like
diving into the twenties. Again, if you think back to the end of the PS three generation, those later games were not running well, maybe the "Call of Duty's" were a little bit better optimized than a lot of other games. But if you just think
about from the context of this is a 10 year old game console and the fact that brand new
games are coming out today that are running pretty well, I think it's an impressive feat and it's even doubly so if you look at some of the dedicated first
party titles for PlayStation. A game that has no issues
pretty much whatsoever is "Gran Turismo 7." Now this is a game that
I'm very familiar with 'cause I've been playing it on the PS5 since it came out last year. So I know what this game looks like, I know how it performs and honestly, the PS4 is
incredibly impressive. Yes, you're losing a
little bit of the fidelity and yes, you're running at 1080p, but the performance, rock solid, very, very impressive and the visuals honestly,
not that big of a downgrade. Certainly nowhere near
as much as I thought. Now sure, if you wanna
go digital foundry on it, you can definitely pixel
peeps and little issues here and there and it's
certainly not going to be the full experience of the world. But as far as actually playing the game, focusing on the gameplay
and not the vistas and the close up shots of
the cars and everything, honestly, you could probably fool me. If I'm playing on 1080p display, I probably wouldn't immediately be able to pick out the PS5. It is incredibly impressive
this is running on base PS4. People are gonna be really mad at me now. They're like, "You can't
tell the difference? "What about the rate tracing? "How am I supposed to deal
with ambient occlusion?" Another game which runs surprisingly well on the base PS4 is "Fortnite." Now, while it's a little
bit of an older game, Epic have done an
absolutely incredible job of constantly updating the
game and, specifically, recently it got an update
to go to Unreal Engine 5 and I gotta say, it looks great. Now, with a little caveat that, of course, you're not getting all
those features from the PS5, you missed the global illumination and some of the rate tracing features and just some of the sheer
like draw distance and whatnot and yes, just like in "Warzone,"
there are some frame drops. You're not sitting at
a smooth locked 60 FPS, but also just like "Warzone," you're getting 40, 50 a lot of time and I will say that on the
whole playing "Warzone" and "Fortnite" back to back
as they're broadly similar kind of open world games,
"Fortnite" runs better and I would say "Fortnite" looks better. It's clear that Epic
have juiced absolutely every single teraflop
they can out of the PS4 at this point, which it's only 1.3 or 1.8, but every single one of those
flops are flopping hard. Boy, I'm glad I'm not Digital Foundry. Okay, so there's a lot of good, honestly, a surprising amount of good. I had very low expectations going in, but then there's also some bad. First and foremost, this is a
10 year old console this year. Not the PS4 Slim specifically,
but the base PS4 hardware which is identical to this
as far as performance. It is old. From this point forward,
I think that they've sold enough PS5s that, honestly,
a lot of developers are gonna be like, "I
don't wanna have to deal "with this PS4 anymore." That's just a hunch. Maybe this has another couple years of great software support
and I'll be very surprised. But it does feel like with these DLCs and with games starting to become more and more exclusive to
PS5, it does make sense because while this is a
remarkably competent device considering it's made it
10 years, there is still some major drawbacks
compared to a modern console. First and foremost is the CPU. It is bad. I was gonna use a different
word, I'm gonna stick with bad. This was a mobile eight core processor that was literally the only
thing AMMD had off the shelf at the time when they were developing this back in 2012, 2013. The CPU is hilariously slow
even by like the standards of what you've got in your
pocket for your phone. While the GPU is decent, it
lacks a lot of modern features. It's like rate tracing and whatnot and while I've upgraded this with an SSD, again, a developer has to assume that this is running a slow hard drive which also severely impacts the size and loading times of like
open worlds and stuff. It's clear the PS4 is starting to run into the the inevitable march of time and I think that gaming
as a whole will be better when everything can be targeted like a PS5 and having
an SSD and everything and there's the price to consider. Did I mention that this is $300 brand new? Same price as it was
when it came out in 2016. It's also easy to forget
that the PS4, literally, is the only PlayStation ever, besides I guess technically
the PS one by default because it was the first PlayStation, that doesn't support any
kind of wards compatibility and yes, before you try to
tell me the PS Now is great. No, it's not. It's not good. It wasn't good when it first came out. It's definitely not good today. I don't wanna stream a bunch of PS3 games that run like crap, that look like 720p run through a Jello
factory, that's not it. The PS5 at least will play
PS4 games, PS4 Pro games, it'll take advantage of
any kind of optimizations the games have sort of developed and you can't play PS1, PS2
games, anything like that, which is arguably kind
of one of the reasons why I would actually say that you may want to consider a PS3,
especially an earlier PS3 that has full PS2 backwards compatibility. If you want a single device
that will give you a lot. A PS3 plus a PS5 will play basically every PlayStation game of all time. Short of the Vita, I guess. Boy, if only there was a next gen console that was a readily available for $300 and sometimes 250 bucks
and really, really rarely, sometimes $230 that has
all the wonderful features, it's Xbox Series S, you should buy that. I'm not even kidding. I loved spending time with this PS4. It is so much fun to go back and it is surprising to
see just how much works but this Series S is better
in almost every single way, almost every single way. Yes, it has a smaller SSD so it's only got about 500
GB as opposed to one terabyte and that does make a
difference when games are huge and unlike this, you
can't easily upgrade that. You pretty much have to buy one of the very expensive Xbox
sort of little memory sticks which are like 200 bucks on their own. So I get that. But if you can be a little
bit careful with your storage, you are going to find it is
a much better experience. The Series S, while it can output 4K, most games are largely targeted 1080p. They're always, always gonna look better than what you've got on
the PS4 and importantly, it feels like it's a
better long-term play. Games are gonna be coming
out for the Xbox Series S for years and years and years
and years and years from now. It is part of this current
generation of gaming. It's not going anywhere. This PS4, the life cycle's not going to be that much longer. Even in that optimistic
estimate of another year or two of decent support, that's not gonna even hold a candle to where the Series S is gonna
be in five, six, seven years, which I still think it
will be fully supported at that point. I gotta say, most people
who are even remotely considering buying this
PS4 should just buy a PS5 or a Series S, that's the
sad part of this video because it's better than I expected, but I expected it to be really bad so that's not exactly a
resounding recommendation. I think that the PS4 deserves
a long happy retirement as a device that has great media controls, that has a really nice software layer, has tons and tons and tons
of games that perform well. You can even stream your PS5 on your PS4, it just doesn't need to be $300. Thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe
if you enjoy this video and let me know what console should I try to resurrect from the dead next time.