- Yes, the PS5 is worth it. Not since the PlayStation 3 generation, have we seen such a big leap,
not only in just performance, but in the overall experience
of next generation gaming. Now you may have seen all
of our videos this year on the rumors and every
little bit of information we've gotten on the PS5, but until you have the
DualSense in your hand and a 4k HDR TV in front of you, can you really appreciate just how big of a leap the PS5 truly is. It's good. It is really, really good. This video is sponsored by the new SteelSeries Arctis 7P headset. It all starts with the
DualSense controller. Now I'll be honest with you. Last generation, I preferred
the Xbox One controller. It was more comfortable and it just felt more
natural for me to play on. But this time around it is very clear. Sony have taken the
lead with the DualSense. Not only is this a nicer
controller to use and to hold, but importantly, it gives you
an entirely different level of immersion in the game. So first of all, we
have "Astro's Playroom". Now this is a game which comes
pre-installed on the PS5, it's free, it's similar to
something like "Wii Sports". And that it's almost a little
bit more of a controller demo, but it does an excellent job of showing you why this controller is completely unlike anything
you've used in the past. So every little motion inside
the controller, you can feel. So for example, as I went left to right, I could feel the controller vibrate, the triggers are unique because like, there's like actual real
resistance there. Can you see that? That's in software. Look at that. That's crazy. Not only do I have the sound
coming from the controller, but the vibration sort
of moves back and forth. It's something which is
difficult to get a good sense of on video. (whirring) The way that I feel a vibration
for every little step. It is so cool. Now of course, "Astro's Playroom" is certainly a proof of
concept to make the DualSense, look and feel as absolute
best as possible, but it's actually a pretty fun game. The fact that this is
included with the PS5 I do think is, it's more than just a demo. You can definitely spend a few hours having fun with this thing. Now, if I have one nitpick
with the controller, it is battery life, especially with a game
like "Astro's Playroom", which really does take
advantage of all aspects of the vibration, the
triggers and whatnot. It drains battery pretty quickly. I mean, you could be
spending something like five or six hours between charges, which to be fair it's USB-C,
you can easily plug it in, but if you're playing a lot of games that take full advantage of things, you gotta charge your control
a little bit more often than you're probably used to. Now launch games are
never the greatest example of what a console is capable of three, four, five years down the road, but we do have enough titles to at least get a sense of
where the PS5 is headed. So I think Spider-Man, Miles Morales is probably the most
high-profile game that's out and it does something
kind of interestingly. So you usually have two
different modes here, you have 4k 30 and 4k 60, quality versus performance. Performance looks good and runs well and is certainly a step up
over what you have on the PS4, specifically, when you
look at like the load times and how you're able to
seamlessly fly through the city without any sort of bottlenecks, but a thing I find a
little bit more interesting is the quality mode. This enables all the bells and whistles, including ray tracing. In fact, actually "Astro's
Playroom" does a pretty good job of showing you how ray
tracing can kind of make the world feel more elaborate
and sort of more lived in. So if you look at the way that his visor is naturally reflecting the environment around him and even his entire body is being colored by this
green grass around him, essentially what ray tracing
does is it grounds a game in much more of a realistic
lighting solution, right? I mean, essentially
what you're seeing here is exactly the way that
light works in real life. If you stand next to
a bunch of green grass with a ton of light around you, and you're a reflective
surface, guess what? You're gonna look green. And that does a lot to make games look so much more realistic. He doesn't stand out because
he's all white and blue or whatever he blends in
naturally to the environment. And I think that's just a little taste of what ray tracing can deliver by not necessarily making the
graphics higher resolution or anything like that, but just making everything
feel more grounded in reality, when it comes to playing
these next-gen games. Another game I wanna give a
shout out to is 'Demon's Souls". Now this is of course a
remaster of a PS3 game, but they've done a really good job of not only looking great. I mean, you've got stuff like those reflections, you've got the quick load
times in fact, actually, that's one of the main differences, but what really jumps
out to me on this one is the way it takes advantage
of the DualSense controller. When playing Spider-Man, it feels like I'm just
using a DualShock 4. You get a little bit of rumble,
but it's not anything crazy, but "Demon's Souls"
takes it a step further. Not only do you get a lot of audio from the speaker inside the controller, but the vibration feels much better. Like every step you can
kinda feel left versus right, as you sort of clash swords, it's nice. "Dirt 5" also takes advantage
of the DualSense controller. Now it's a little bit early, I'd say the support is a touch rough, but you do get a little bit of a sense for what things are going to feel like. So for example, the right trigger as you're driving with the throttle. You actually feel a lot more resistance because they've sort of tuned
that into the controller. And it's nice that games
have that full capability of changing the way the now
you have the resistance, but the rumble, the feel you've got a lot of the stuff that makes the DualSense feel kind of next gen. Now, especially as more
and more racing games are gonna take advantage of this. I love the idea that as I
sorta jump on the brakes, I can feel like the ABS
pulsing or something. We've got a little bit of a sense for that with the Xbox One controller, but those impulse triggers
were never really implemented and they certainly don't
have the same fidelity in that experience that the DualSense has. So early days, but you're
starting to really kinda see the wheels turn, I'm
like, "Oh, wait a minute." This is really something
that feels next gen in a way that you won't ever notice by watching YouTube gameplay. You notice it when the
controller's in your hand and you feel the brakes lock up or you feel the backend come around as you get on the throttle too quickly, it's a unique experience. Now, if you've been eyeing that PS5, you might be interested in
the sponsor of today's video. SteelSeries brand new Arctis 7P headset. Now the Arctis 7 was already
the best wireless headset in the game. And now the 7P is all about that brand new PS5. So not only does it match
and it is super comfortable, but on top of that, it supports
all of the audio features of the PS5 with it's super low latency, 2.4 gigahertz connection. On top of that it also has a
Discord Certified microphone, excellent audio quality,
24 hours of battery life, which is probably more than
you wanna game at one time. And it does support also the
PS4 as well as most devices via the USB-C dongle which
comes included in the box. You've also got full controls
built into the headset, and I've gotta say, this is
one of the most comfortable gaming headsets that I've ever worn. So if you wanna go check out the Arctis 7P you can find it at steelseries.com or at the link in the description. And of course, huge
shout out to Steelseries for sponsoring my PS5 coverage. Now, the looks of the PS5 might
be a little bit polarizing. I'll say I like it, although I do think
that the digital version looks a little bit nicer, especially when you have
it sitting by itself. This sort of disc tray bulge
looks a little bit strange, but I think they've done a
good job of the overall design. And there are a couple
of nice little features. So in addition to three USB-A ports, you also have a USB-C port up front, something I wished the Xbox had. You also have things like Wi-Fi 6 built in where of course you could plug
it into ethernet if you want, but I've seen really good download speeds, taking advantage of that Wi-Fi 6 network. And when you put it all together with what you get in the box, you don't really need a lot
of extra stuff for it, right? I mean, that stand, like
I said, comes included. And while the size is going to
be a problem for some people, I generally like a lot of
the little hardware details they've done. I mean, if
you look really up close to the little bit of
texture on the inside, it's a bunch of the PlayStation symbols. I mean, there's just a
lot of little Easter eggs that make this thing a little bit of a cut
above that PS4 hardware specifically from the style perspective. Now on the flip side, especially after we'd done the tear down, I have an appreciation for
the way they've designed this. So I'm gonna be quiet for a second, okay? You hear anything right now? My microphone is two inches
away from the exhaust of this console and it
is almost entirely silent and I'm not just sitting on a menu, right? This game has been running
for over 45 minutes now. And the PS5 has not gotten
louder in the slightest, that I think is a big win
for Sony this time around because look, the PS4 was a great console, but sort of the noise, maybe
not its strongest suit. So while yes the PS5 is large,
it is large for a reason. They've done a lot of work to make sure this thing
runs quiet and cool. It absolutely does that. There's also a side benefit of that in that the PS5 takes
advantage of boost clocks. So essentially the quieter and specifically the cooler it runs the better performance you can get, still might not be quite as powerful as something like the Xbox Series X, but quiet, cool, high-performance are all great things in my book, as long as you have a very,
very hard space to store it. Something else which is really striking about this next generation of consoles is how fast everything is. So I spoke a little bit about this in my Xbox Series X review, but these consoles are
just simply really fast at pretty much everything. So from loading games to
hopping between menus, to even firing up for the first time, they're incredibly snappy. These things are packed to the gills with cutting edge technology. They've got excellent processors which help with things
like moving between apps and downloading games and
multitasking. It runs really well, but you also have plenty of memory. You have cutting edge graphics with literally all of the latest features, including stuff that came
out in graphics cards like five days ago. You also have an SSD, now that I think is probably going to be one of the most noticeable things just going between the
last generation of consoles and the PS5. Everything loads so fast, right? I mean, you saw with Astro's Play world, you jump into a level, two
seconds later, it's loaded. You know, the days of waiting for three minutes for your
Red Dead 2 save to load up are simply gone. And while yeah, there's
certainly trade offs there. This is an 825 gigabyte console. Yeah, so out of the box, you have 667 gigabytes free on the PS5. And there was only a
couple of things installed, I'm down to 490 gigs. That is
certainly a downside, right? SSDs are expensive and the fact is you're simply gonna have less space to work with on these new consoles and the games are going to be bigger. Now on the PS5 specifically, the hardware actually does support you to upgrade the SSD yourself. So we've actually done
an entire tear down, which you can feel free to check out, but it's pretty easy to just
slide off the side panel and install an SSD. The
problem is, of course, those SSDs are going to be expensive and those SSDs are also not available yet. Even if you can find one, it actually doesn't support
it. You're got to wait for a future firmware update. That being said, though, the fact that we have
super fast SSD storage really does mean that
everything on this PS5 absolutely flies. I don't wanna give you the wrong idea while the PlayStation
has a ton of strengths, it is certainly not a perfect console. So when you line it up
beside the Xbox Series X, you can see that the Xbox is a little bit more of a
technically focused console. So not only does it have more
raw graphics performance, but on top of that, the
Xbox has a lot of functions and features that just simply
are missing on the PS5. So take, for example, the
ability to output a 1440p signal. If you had a 1440P gaming monitor, you just simply can't get
that resolution out of the PS5 while the Xbox handles it no problem. Same thing goes for things
like auto low latency mode and specifically variable refresh rate. You have things like
FreeSync built into the Xbox that simply are missing at least
as of right now on the PS5. Now none of these things
are deal breakers, but the Xbox does a much better job of handling a wide range of displays and giving you a very smooth output. If you plug in your PS5 to a
standard 4k TV, this is fine, but all those weird edge cases, the Xbox handles much better. Something else I've been
missing coming from the Series X is full backwards compatibility. Now I'll give Sony props. They do finally have
PS4 support in the PS5, So you can play most of the games you've purchased over the last few years, but there's no support
for the PS1, PS2, or PS3, which is understandable when you look at the
Xbox side of the house, which is able to play
pretty much every Xbox game from the original all the
way up to the modern titles on the Xbox Series X, it
is a little bit of a miss. I also really find myself
missing quick resume on the Xbox. So on the PS5, it works just
the way that the PS4 works. So you're playing a game,
you wanna play another game, it quits it, launches the next title. That's fine, especially with
the SSD it's much quicker, but on the Xbox side, the quick resume built in means that you can actually jump
to the last handful of games that you've played. And they will load in a couple of seconds to exactly where you were before. It's a feature that again, sort of in keeping with the
theme of these new consoles is all about getting you into the game as quickly as possible. And it's something that pretty frankly, I miss coming from the
Xbox over to the PS5. But I'm actually gonna be doing a much more in-depth comparison between the PS5 and the Xbox. So make sure to subscribe,
to see my full thoughts, but there are certainly some trade-offs on either side at the moment. At this point, I think it's pretty clear. I personally think the PS5 is worth it. This next generation of gaming
adds so many new features with so few compromises, at what I think at a pretty
reasonable price point, it's hard to go wrong. Now on top of the PS5, you also do of course have
the PS5 digital edition, which I didn't really
talk about in this video, but it's pretty much the exact same thing, but it's $100 cheaper and you don't have the optical disc drive. And on the Xbox side of the camp, they actually do match
up pretty well, right? I think PS5 and Xbox
Series X are much closer than the PS4 and Xbox One ever were. And if you really wanna go
on the budget side of things, little baby Xbox Series S
while it's not as powerful does offer a lot of these
same next gen benefits. But regardless, if you can't get your
hands on a PS5 right now, I wouldn't stress on it too much. Well yes the console is good right now, there still aren't a ton of games, and there are a lot of features that either need to be
updated or added in firmware over the next year or so. So if it takes you a little
while to get your hands on one, I don't think you're
missing out on that much, but when you do, that next
gen is very, very real. Thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe to
the channel if you enjoyed and until my next clickbait
PS5 video, I will see you then.