I’ve partnered up with the San Antonio River 
Authority to walk you through the construction   of a major sewage lift station project. And, it’s crane day! Check out that all-wheel steering. At the end of the previous episode, this 
300-ton mobile crane had just finished   getting set up on site with its outriggers 
and more than 100 tons of counterweight.   And, the contractor brought in another (smaller) 
mobile crane to help get trucks unloaded.   The main part of this sewage lift station is 
called the wet well, and the main components of   the wet well, precast concrete ring segments, 
have just started arriving at the site. It is almost a universal human experience 
to enjoy watching big things get built,   so, why not do it with a tour guide?   I’m your host, Grady Hillhouse, 
and this is Practical Construction. Crane day is a big day, not just because 
of the size of the equipment on site.   There’s a lot that can go wrong when lifting and 
moving heavy loads, so there are a lot of people   on site to make sure things run smoothly. It might 
seem like overkill, and it might seem like a lot of folks just standing around, but some days you 
have to hope for the best and plan for the worst. And, spoiler alert, the only problem that 
happened this day was a flatbed truck   carrying counterweights getting 
high centered in the driveway.   That’s why the contractor decided 
to bring in another crane.   This way, delivery trucks can stay on 
the road, get offloaded, and be on their   way without any difficult maneuvering that 
might put a kink in the day’s busy schedule. The first piece of the lift station’s wet well 
is, naturally, the bottom.   The rest of the wet well will sit on this concrete base.  The crew 
takes it off the truck with the first crane. But,   before it’s picked up by the big crane and set 
into place, it needs a little work. These concrete   segments are designed to easily stack on top of 
each other. However, a concrete-to-concrete seal   held together by gravity is not very watertight. 
And trust me, for large containers full of raw   sewage, it’s best that they don’t leak. So the 
crew is installing compressible gasket material   anywhere concrete surfaces will mate together. 
And, to make sure that everything slides together   just right, they’re also applying lubricant to 
the rubber gaskets. Once it’s ready, the bottom  segment is attached to the crane with chain slings  and slowly swung around to the excavated area. Workers keep the heavy concrete slab 
under control using attached ropes   called tag lines as it's lowered toward the hole.   Spotters keep a watchful eye on everything 
and everyone on site to maintain safety.   The signal person is the eyes and ears of the 
operator. They use a combination of a radio and   sometimes hand signals to guide the motions and 
directions of the crane. Slow is the name of the   game, because sudden movements can cause the load 
to swing or crash into the side of the shoring.   And even a little crash can be a big deal when 
you have as much momentum as this concrete slab. Once the bottom of the wet well 
is just above the mud slab,   workers take measurements and communicate with 
the signal person to make tiny adjustments and   get the slab in just the right place.  When it’s 
perfect, they make the call to set it down.  Crews disconnect the slings, so that 
the crane can move on to its next load.   It’s not the next wet well segment, 
but actually some heavy-duty tools to   help workers guide each segment into place. 
These scissor lifts just barely fit into the   corners of the excavation around the edges 
of the wet well, but they’ll help the crew   reach the higher joints and keep an eye on 
each segment as it’s lowered into place. The next segment of the wet well is the 
first actual ring that will sit on the base.   Just like the base, it arrives on a flatbed truck 
that needs to be offloaded by the small crane.   And just like the base, it needs gaskets 
and lubricant to seal perfectly with the   precast segments above and below it in the stack. Attaching the ring segments directly to the 
crane hook using chain slings would put too   much horizontal force on the concrete, potentially 
causing cracks or breaks. Instead, the crew uses   a spreader bar between the segment and the 
hook. This spreader keeps the forces in the   chain slings vertical so they don’t squeeze the 
concrete and cause undue stress during the lift. Once the segment is off the ground, the crew 
can lubricate the recess where it will slide   onto the bottom slab. You can see smaller precast 
concrete manhole segments in the background there.   Those will be installed in a future episode. Just like before, the segment is 
swung around to the excavation,   then carefully lowered into the hole.   The crew in the hole tells the signal person 
what they need, and he tells the crane operator what to do.  Before long, the second segment 
is in place, resting comfortably on the base. Each following segment goes through essentially 
the same process. First, offload from the truck.   Next, gaskets and lube it up.  Then, hand off 
to the big crane, and lower it into place.  Disconnect and send the 
crane back for the next one.   Oh, and don’t forget the pizza break for lunch. Each one of these segments weigh about 
15 tons, roughly the weight of an average   city bus. That’s nothing to sneeze at, 
especially if it’s hanging above your head.   As the day wears on, the work starts 
to click into a predictable pace.   Everyone has a job to do and they 
anticipate the needs of others.   The worksite gets quieter as 
everyone settles into the rhythm.   And, slowly but surely these massive 
pieces are installed one-by-one. When the penultimate segment goes into place, the 
scissor lifts can’t reach any higher. So the   mobile boom lifts come out to help the 
crew lower the final segment into place.   This one is a little smaller than the others 
to make up the final height of the wet well.   Eventually this segment will be attached to the 
surface concrete slab and given an access hatch,   but we’re still quite a ways from then.  And just like that, we have a wet well installed.  It’s a relatively minor milestone in the 
project, but a major accomplishment for the   day to have everything go so smoothly 
and be able to be home by dinner. Even though the wet well is in place, that 
doesn’t mean it’s ready for the dirty job   of holding raw wastewater. A crew lowers a scissor 
lift into the wet well to make it easier to access   the inside walls. They install grout by hand 
into each of the joints between the precast   segments to protect any exposed gaskets 
and help seal any potential leakage paths.   Once the grout cures, it is 
painted with a waterproof coating.   This isn’t the final protective coating that 
will go on the inside walls of the wet well,   but it will work together with the grout at 
the joints to reduce the chance of leaks.   To prove it, the wet well is required to go 
through a leak test before it’s backfilled   to make sure it is water tight. That’s as simple 
as filling it to the brim with water and leaving   it for several days. At the end of the test, 
if there’s still water at the rim (minus an   allowance for evaporation) and no visible leakage 
on the outside, the wet well is good to go. The   crew did a little bit of epoxy injection into some 
small cracks as a precaution during the leak test.   That’s the source of the foam you 
can see floating on top of the water.   After the required test period, the wet well 
was certified leak free and ready for backfill. Backfilling this wet well isn’t as simple as 
dumping dirt into the hole. It has to be carefully   coordinated with the removal of the shoring 
system we saw installed in the previous episode.   Crews fight the rain getting ready to start this 
process. And they make sure to clean up the muck   and mud in the bottom of the excavation, because 
this hole won’t actually be filled with soil,   as you’ll see. Since this shoring 
system was installed, the ground   has had time to settle and shift, increasing 
the pressure on the panels holding it back.   That means getting these panels out is going to 
be a little bit harder than it was to get them in. The contractor first uses the excavator to bump   and push the shoring system around to 
loosen the panels and free them up. A hydraulic puller is connected to 
the inner plates to lift them up.   But even that wasn’t enough in some instances. The 
reaction forces required to pull these plates up   along the guides, with the friction of the 
soil they’re holding back, are tremendous.   A few times, rather than lift the inner panel 
up, the hydraulic puller instead forced the   outer shoring panel deeper into the ground… or 
bent the reaction beam. With a lot of persistence   (and a big excavator), they got the panels lifted 
enough and ready for the first layer of backfill. Rather than trying to compact 
soil in this tight area,   the plans call for Controlled Low Strength 
Material, also known as flowable fill.   This is a slurry of cement, fine aggregate, and 
water that sets up like concrete although with   a lot less strength. It might sound strange, 
at first, to intentionally use a material with   low strength, but it has an advantage, because the 
contractor is going to have to trench through this   backfill later in the project when the pipes 
are installed. It also saves a lot on cost.   Conventional earthwork would be nearly 
impossible to do well in this narrow   excavation, but flowable fill is considered 
self-compacting, and it won’t settle over time.   It’s used in all kinds of irregular excavations or 
voids like this where compacting earthen material   would be difficult to impossible. In this case, 
they can pour the flowable fill directly into   the excavated area using a wooden chute, and 
even the irregular areas behind the shoring   panels are filled with material that will harden 
within a few hours and never settle over time. The backfill comes up in batches that 
equal a few feet or around a meter each   so that the shoring can maintain support 
of the excavation as the level comes up.   The next batch of backfill follows a few days 
afterward. Now that the shoring system panels   are loosened up, they can be lifted up with some 
gentle but persistent tugs of the excavator arm. This batch of flowable fill is being placed with 
a pump truck to make it easier to get all the way   around the wet well, and the pump truck operator 
is already getting it set up. The panels are being   lifted up just in time, as mixer trucks are 
starting to arrive. Each truck unloads into   the hopper of the pump and takes off right away 
to make room for the next one. The pump truck boom   moves the hose to each corner of the excavation 
to place the flowable fill. There’s a little bit   of water in the hole, but it’s not enough to 
cause any issues with this backfill operation.   The controlled low strength material 
continues to backfill the excavation,   and all the while, the crew continues working 
on removing the shoring system for the hole. Over the next couple of days, the 
crew continues to remove elements of   the shoring system from the excavation 
so that they can continue backfilling.   Before the flowable fill trucks show up, the 
crew works to get the final panels pulled out.   Rather than pull them all the way out 
before the previous layers of backfill set,   some of these panels were left in the 
ground while the flowable fill cured.   That balanced the earth pressure on the 
other side, making them easier to pull out.   Getting them out last also 
makes the access a lot easier.   They work on cleaning up the shoring system 
so it can be sent back. And they also clean   up the excavation to remove loose soil so they 
can continue to backfill using flowable fill.   And they’re just in time for 
the trucks to start showing up.   Mixer truck after mixer truck arrive to 
continue filling this hole up to the top   of the second stage of excavation.  Almost looks good enough to drink! Once that layer of fill has cured, it’s 
time to start backfilling with soil.   First, any uncompacted soil is removed from the 
excavation to make sure there are no loose pockets   of dirt. The backfill soil is brought into the 
hole, spread out in an even layer called a lift,   and then compacted into place. Every once 
in a while, a technician checks the backfill   with a density gauge to make sure it meets the 
specifications. A lot of important parts of the   project will eventually sit on top of this fill, 
so it’s important that it won’t settle over time. A surveyor comes out the next day to 
mark out the next step of the project.   Even if it won’t settle much, the compacted soil 
might settle a little bit, so the most important   parts of the project will sit on flowable fill 
all the way up. It’s just easier to backfill the entire area with soil and only carve out the  spots that need to be flowable fill afterwards. An excavator carefully cuts away the areas that will 
eventually be backfilled with flowable material. The next day, it’s more flowable fill.   Truck after truck arrive to backfill 
this excavated area just like a bathtub.   It’s almost hypnotic. All in all it took 11 truckloads of flowable 
fill to finish out this part of the job.   And the San Antonio River Authority’s newest 
wet well is backfilled not far from where   the ground surface will eventually be. We 
started this episode with a big dirt hole,   and now we have a big concrete hole. You 
might be wondering, “Where are the sewer   pipes? How is wastewater supposed to flow into 
the wet well?” Installing those pipes for this   sewage lift station (and a whole lot more) in 
the next episode of Practical Construction. But if you can’t wait to catch that next episode, 
it’s already live on Nebula at the link below.   Practical Construction is an experiment for 
me. It’s not like anything else you’ve seen   me do on this channel. But I think watching 
construction is nearly a universal human joy,   especially if you can do it with good 
photography, helpful explanations,   and (of course) a friendly host. I think we 
deserve to see how the constructed environment   we depend on gets built around us, even if 
a 5-part series on sewage infrastructure   isn’t the best fit for the YouTube algorithm. 
That’s why the series is best seen on Nebula. If you, like me, have given up on the TV 
networks but don’t want to give up on high   quality educational content, Nebula has got 
you covered. And unlike TV, you’ll never see   an ad or interruption on Nebula. You’ve probably 
heard me talk about it before. It’s a streaming   platform built by and for independent creators. 
No high-powered industry executives deciding what   projects get the green light; just people like 
me who are passionate about a topic they want to   share with the world. No where else are you going 
to see someone spend a year on a construction   site just to show you where your wastewater goes. 
And Nebula just keeps getting better and better:   totally ad-free videos from excellent educational 
channels, original series and specials that can’t   be found anywhere else, and even classes from your 
favorite creators like Dan from the Coding Train. I know there are a lot of streaming platforms out 
there right now, and no one wants another monthly   cost to keep track of, but I also know that if 
you’re watching a show like this to end, there   is a ton of content on Nebula that’s going to be 
right up your alley. So I’ve made it dead simple:   click the link below and you’ll get 40% off an 
annual plan. That means you pay just one time,   30 dollars, for an entire year’s 
access to Nebula. That’s less than   3 dollars a month. Help me show the 
world how cool construction can be,   and get the best viewing experience on the 
internet while you’re at it by clicking   that link in the description below. Thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think.