- Our friends over at Best Buy have a wide selection of tech
at sometimes good pricing. However, we're gonna go one layer deeper by buying some open-box tech to see exactly if it's a great deal or if it's a fancy way of saying you're gonna get scammed, boy. One of the things that makes
the most sense for Open Box, in my opinion, are PC components. Now, that might sound like a
weird choice on the face of it but think about something
like a graphics card. If this was returned within a few days or maybe a week or two, odds are still in pretty
much light new condition but they could be slashing
serious money off of it. So for this, I've got three options. Open-Box Satisfactory
is the cheapest at 298, but it's unavailable. But Open-Box Excellent is, and it "Looks brand new. Includes all original
parts and accessories. And typically contains packaging." And that is a $50 discount on the GPU. Now mind you, that's still
not an amazing deal for a 3050 but because this is the
overclocked version of the card I am probably saving 40, 50 bucks. I have two questions for today's video. First of all is, can I get a good deal
buying Open-Box on Best Buy? But the second question is, is it even worth buying
these in the first place when they say "fair" or "satisfactory" or "excellent" condition? If you do see a good deal on
Best Buy and you wanna buy it, what exactly kind of quality
levels should you be expecting? How about a console? So this is an Xbox Series S. If I want this open-box... So $300 new, excellent
condition in Open-Box is 287.99 so is $12 off, Open-Box
satisfactory is 285. Who doesn't pay $3 more to get the brand new looking console compared to the moderate
signs of cosmetic use? Here's a deal that
actually might be worth it. So this is a Victus
15.6 inch gaming laptop. So 1650 is a totally reasonable
GPU, 144 hertz display. New is 580, but Open-Box
excellent knocks off a $100. Or Open-Box satisfactory
knocks even more off. Time to get my Geek Squad mobile. I am right now outside of the
first of the two Best Buys that I'm supposed to be
picking up orders from. The problem I think is that Best Buy doesn't
really keep great track of their open-box items. So I have gotten, no lie,
about 15 calls from Best Buy due to my two orders. Interestingly, while I was inside, there were a ton of open box items kind of spread throughout. They had a cage up front,
they had some Apple products, they had some stuff over in the PC area. There were some legitimately good deals. I'm quickly coming to the conclusion that if you want to buy Best Buy open-box, online's just not the move. It's kind of annoying. And plus, if you do go in stores you actually can look at the
physical items themselves. Not only do some of them just
not straight have boxes at all but even if they do, supposedly you actually can
look at the quality of each one. So when I wanted an open-box item I did hope at least to get a box. All right, let's take a look. Now, as a refresher, this
was listed as good condition which meant some minor cosmetic issues but generally pretty much all complete. However, it obviously didn't come with the original packaging, but more importantly, it didn't come with a power adapter. Let's take a look at our gaming laptop. Okay, good condition I would
definitely say on the lid. Some very minor like scuff
here, but that's nothing. Ooh, nope, nevermind. It's dusty. Yes, this is totally a floor unit. So if you can see a bit right in here, there's clearly a bunch of dust. This is probably sitting
on for a few weeks or a month or whatever. Let's see what's inside. Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. We're good with this.
We're good with this. There's some fingerprints on the display but the finish is fine. It's not dirty. Yeah, yeah, this is okay. This is okay. Alright, so I have now
got this up and running and I have a few initial thoughts. So, I have to kind of separate this because on one side I'm not really reviewing
the laptop, right? I'm much more so reviewing
the open-box experience from Best Buy. And just at a base level, the fact that I did not
get a power adapter is bad. So this device was just
a little bit over $490. It does seem like it was correctly reset. I think there are two, maybe
three dead pixels over here. I can't tell this is placebo or not. It's a little laggy. Dude, this thing's not good. This is a fresh copy of Windows. Oh, it finally showed up. There we go. Oh it took, 30 seconds. Not a fan. Not feeling it right
now, not feeling Mr. Krabs. - Are you feeling it now Mr. Krabs? - Let's see what we've got
inside our open-box laptop. First impression is
just that this is fine. It is not massively dirty the way that it kinda looked
like from the outside. So yesterday when we unboxed the Victus, I noticed some weird performance issues. So today we're actually using this laptop in a comparison with some other devices and we found massive issues. The CPU on this device ping
pongs between full speed and basically idle. It goes down to like
three or 400 megahertz, which massively stalls it out. So we ran in Cinebench and this should be a score of about 10,000 and it's less than 2,000. So I'm not entirely sure
what's wrong with it, especially 'cause it's
a fresh copy of Windows. But yeah, this is actually really bad. (thumping) I shouldn't have did that. So, as a refresher, this Xbox Series S was
listed in fair condition, which is the lowest quality
that Best Buy will offer. Importantly, it does come
with the box, which is nice. Also, importantly, it was very expensive, like more so than a
new Series S on Amazon. But we're gonna disregard
that for a second and let's see what a fair
quality item looks like. (thumping) (grunting) That's... They literally
got nothing for the bottom. So we've got ourselves the controller, which is wow, yeah, that's pretty scuffed. Mind you, some of these
scuffs may have been just because it was sitting in the box, but oh no, no, that's
like ear wax or something. Yeah, I mean it feels fairly fresh but it smells vaguely of gamer. We also have the power adapter, which, or sorry, power cable. Let's take a look at this Series S. (thudding) That's fine. Damaged, they say. Little scuff right here, little dirty. We'll say I'm not seeing damage anywhere. It seems very minty on the inside. I don't know where they
come up with damaged. Hey, hey wait a minute. It didn't come with an HDMI cable. Alright, we'll see if our Series S works. Good sign. There we go. Boom. Okay, I'm not surprised
that it physically works. The console itself looks
to be in great shape. If we just put the value
aside for a second, we just purely evaluate the way that they judge these things, you kind of can't listen
to what Best Buy say the quality level is. You kind of need to go into a store and actually put your
eyes on them yourself. Which neatly segues me into
the items that I did not do so. So both the laptop and the
Series S I ordered online, went into store and picked them up. Every other item that I've
got to take a look at today was ordered site unseen
purely by listening to the quality level that they
advertise on Bestbuy.com. Let's see what we've got in here. Man does, does Best Buy
know how to package things. (thudding) This is my SSD. So I've got this box which is empty, and then I have a Best Buy refurb box. So this says backed by our return and exchange promise cover under warranty verified to work properly. And on the side here it does
show one terabyte 970 EVO. This is a lot of packaging for what is quite literally
the world's tiniest item and it should be an M2 SSD and it is. Wow. What a great way of packaging my SSD. (chuckling) I don't know if that's
so, okay, all right. Now I will say that while I don't love the
way that they shipped it this was actually a pretty solid deal. This is a little over $50 for
one terabyte sampling SSD. Assuming that it is mostly new which I mean looking at
it, it looks pretty minty. I think it was probably
installed like once 'cause I can see a tiny bit of wear where you would screw it down onto like a motherboard or something. But other than that clearly
has not been used a lot. But that being said, it's an SSD. Like the real test is gonna
be actually plugging it in and seeing what we've got here. So we have installed our 970
EVO plus on the test bench minus the bench part. It's a computer, okay? So, first thing I'm gonna do is open up Samsung Magician. Now this will give me the
information on the drive, like cycles, all that kind of stuff. This SSD has been used and this tells me how much
data has been written to it. The problem is it gives
me a number of 1,953,764 which each one of those is a
thousand blocks of 512 bytes. Oh my god, I'm stupid. I'm a big stupid idiot. It says how many gigabytes are written right on the damn front of
the page, 932 gigabytes. Wait, no, no. This is not supposed to happen. It's the same price as a
new one. What happened? (grunting) I should not drop packages. Actually, I just remembered this is the Best Buy we're talking about. They clearly don't pack it well. Oh wait, this is the first
package that doesn't rattle like Matt's bones after a Thursday night. - Bruh. - Our Moto G power. Interesting. There's a lot of stuff going on here. So on the box we have... This was in January of 2023, the erasure was successful and
diagnostic status was passed. So this is an item that
has clearly seen some level of TLC from Best Buy. This is one of the more promising deals because this, in "excellent" condition direct from Best Buy, costs $130, but the new version of a
Moto G Power is 250 bucks. (beeping) And look at that, that's actually... Okay, this is what I'm talking about. If this is what I'm getting for open-box I'm absolutely out here for it. Okay, so we've got ourselves the cables, or the cable singular, but we've got a USBC
cable, which is lovely. And we've got a phone that's actually put in
a box the right way. Okay, so screen a little dusty,
but screen looks terrific. No scratches, scuffs
or anything like that. There's a little, like,
little schmutz on it. I didn't put the schmutz there. It's quite an interesting finish. I will say I think it looks
a lot better on camera than it does in person
'cause very plasticy. But again, this is a $250 phone but we got basically for half
off an excellent condition. Hi there. Hello. How's it going? Hello there. While I download 45 updates that are gonna take about
an hour on my Moto G, why don't we take a look at our next item. All right, inside we have our Beats. All right, so we've got
a Beats Studio Buds. (chuckling) A little nervous about these. So these are Geek Squad refurbished, which I hope means that they
cleared out all the ear juice from my new headphones. And this was a good deal. So this is a little over $80. The MSRP on these is, I think, 150, although they are typically
on sale for like 120 bucks. But even so we're saving some good money. Before I actually open it up, I have some good news. This looks like original packaging, so I don't think, these
may not have even been used if I'm being honest with you. So we've had all of our paperwork here including we've got the USBC to C cable and the ear tips, which
have not been used. Those look pretty new, smell new. And we've also got the package, which looks like it's... That looks actually like,
has it been refurbished? No, that adhesive is original. Well here, actually, let me see. I'm gonna peel it and
see if I can resick it. Okay, so can I resick it the same way? Oh yeah, you can resick it. Okay, so maybe they've
been used, I'm not sure. This looks pretty good. The USBC port also doesn't look like
it's been really plugged in and the earbuds don't have... Oh, they don't have the, okay they don't have the ear tips on. - [Matt] So it's clearly been used. - Wait, that's not good. Yeah, so wait. So, it comes with small
and large ear tips. The medium ones should
have come on the earbuds and they're just not there. So, either they were used
or they weren't used, but regardless, I think
they opened these up took the medium ear tips, threw them away, and then put them back in. So, I used this medium ear tips. Guess I'll go up to large today. My ears are feeling a little bit big. Okay. Yep, so everything
does seem to work here. So it all shows up well
enough in the actual app. Let's listen to some music, shall we? Yeah. No, this is great. Okay, so I can say with full certainty, maybe for the first time in this video, these Beats are solid. 80 bucks, I think, it's
difficult to get a pair of fully wireless Bluetooth headphones that have active noise cancellation and sound this good
for that kind of money. I'm actually pretty happy with these in all honesty. What I'm not as happy
about is this Moto G. I get it, like, obviously
we saved a bunch of money. The problem is though, is that even at like 120
bucks, this is not great. The performance is bad and I waited a long
time for all the updates and everything to go in the background. Phone itself is kind of slow and feels very cheap. But as far as my open-box
experience on this device I will say both the Beats and
the Moto G get a thumbs up. Just not a very big thumbs up. You know, it's that like,
it's not one of these. It's like one of like, one of these. (glass shattering) (thudding) Oh, ooh, no, I don't like that one. Okay, let's see what we've
got in package number, whatever this is. Oh, it's got a box. We have a box. So this my friend is an RTX 3050. Is it so hard to keep
the original packaging? All right. On the little sticker here it does say that it is
in condition "excellent" with no comments. Okay, this is the original inner box. Inside we have the graphics card. Okay, so it actually... Wait, why is it? Why is it so loose in here? So this is our Gigabyte RTX 3050. Now this is a hilariously large card. You can see that this is the
actual PCB where it ends. I do notice there's a little
bit of a scrape right here on the the aluminum, which
doesn't matter at all, but clearly someone got a little too eager when they were installing this probably. They definitely removed
all of the I/O shields, which is fine. Without actually plugging
it in first impressions, it's pretty good. - Wait a minute. - Every time I try to say something nice about an open-box item on Best Buy they turn around and they make
my great deal a terrible one. This $380 is now on sale for 300 bucks. Aka, I could buy a new one of these directly from Best Buy right now for less than I got the open-box one from. I'm not gonna use the Samsung. I want my iPad. I was trying to find a good deal, but no. Oh no. Mr. Buy said, "Boy.". You can put the camera down. We're done. The video's already over. We're done. - [Joanna] Oh you
packaged it like Best Buy. (chuckling) (clattering) - [Matt] So much for returning it. (chuckling)