During my last trip to Japan, I visited 
Tokyo DisneySea. Nice place. Very fun. While walking the park and enjoying the 
strange food, I learned something interesting. Did you know that Tokyo Disneyland 
(東京ディズニーランド) and DisneySea are the   only Disney theme parks that the Walt 
Disney Company doesn’t own any share in? The parks are 100% owned and operated by 
the Oriental Land Company. Oriental Land   runs some other stuff, but their business 
is mostly the resorts - over 80% of income. As of this writing in October 2023, Oriental 
Land is Japan’s 14th largest company by market   cap - beating more famous companies like 
7-Eleven, Honda, Nintendo, and Itochu! And yet how many people have heard of 
this company with its vaguely offensive   name? In today's video, we talk about the 
Japanese giant behind Tokyo Disneyland. ## Beginnings In July 1955, the Walt Disney Company opened its 
first park - Disneyland - in Anaheim, California. Founder Walt Disney envisioned Disneyland as 
a celebration of both the past and the future. Adults can savor nostalgia of their 
childhoods, while children can fuel   their imaginations with depictions of 
the exciting futures ahead of them. The park quickly expanded beyond what 
Anaheim had available for Disney. So   they then crossed the continent to what is 
now Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida. Unfortunately Walt did not get to see the 
Florida facility open. He unexpectedly   passed away in 1966 from lung cancer. 
His brother Roy O. Disney postponed his   retirement to oversee the completion of 
Walt Disney World - which opened in 1971. After the opening, Roy retired. He soon then 
passed away from a stroke at the age of 78. A team   of executives including Card Walker, Donn Tatum, 
and Ron Miller took over managing the company. ## Oriental Land The Oriental Land Company 
started off with a railroad. In 1960, the Keisei Electric Railway company 
started reclaiming land from Tokyo Bay off   the coast of Urayasu City in the Chiba 
Prefecture. A very large plot of land. Keisei operates trains in Tokyo and 
the Chiba Prefecture. They wanted to   develop this area and pondered possible 
commercial and residential uses for it. Unable to secure money for the venture on its own,   Keisei struck a joint venture deal with 
a real estate developer - Mitsui Fudosan,   a member of the massive Mitsui Group. They 
eventually took a 20% minority equity stake. Keisei Railway's president Chiharu Kawasaki 
(川崎千春) became Oriental Land's first president. ## Difficulties
Kawasaki was very hands-on. He took the lead in negotiating face to 
face with a pair of fishermen cooperatives.   Oriental Land's plans required that the 
fishermen give up their fishing rights in   the area - and thus lose their livelihoods. 
The process was expected to take years,   but Kawasaki's direct involvement 
helped accelerate the process. But things didn't get easier after landfill 
began in 1962. The company suffered a couple   of major political scandals. One 
involved bribery and another,   improper land reclamation without permits 
from the Ministry of Construction. These   scandals caused turmoil in the 
upper management ranks and delays. The permitting issue in particular delayed 
the third and final plot of the landfill   work. And then in 1969 when the Ministry 
finally approved the work to go forward,   they cut 77 hectares off said plot. Oriental Land spent another five years 
lobbying for those last 77 hectares. The   company's efforts to secure this extra land 
ahead of time reflects Disney's experience   after opening Disneyland. When Disney wanted 
to build hotels to complement their park,   they found the land had already been acquired. ## A Theme Park
The Chiba government approved the joint venture's plan on the condition that the land 
be used for a recreation facility. So Oriental Land planned for a leisure facility 
named ... Oriental Land. Ergo the name. Oriental   Land would have had four areas - a hall area, 
a play land, auditorium, and fashion square. Originally President Chiharu Kawasaki wanted 
a rose garden in this park. This rose garden   was eventually built and is now the 
Yatsu Rose Garden in Narashino City. While scouting for roses to 
put into the rose garden,   an Oriental Land executive went to 
the United States and saw Disneyland.   He came up with the idea of inviting 
Disney to build a theme park in Japan. ## Disney and Japan - Part 1
Now Disney has some history in Japan. A decade earlier, Walt Disney himself 
had worked with a businessman named   Kunizo Matsuo on a Japanese version of Disneyland. Development went well, but then negotiations 
fell through over contract fees and the use   of the Disney name. And thus, in 1961 Nara 
Dreamland opened. It definitely reminds you   of Disneyland. Except that it isn't, and 
it probably violates a few trademarks. Future President and Chairman of Oriental 
Land Toshio Kagami relates in his memoirs   a story that Walt Disney saw a photo 
of Dreamland and exclaimed "I will   never work with the Japanese again! I 
absolutely cannot trust them!". This   distrust is said to have caused issues 
for Oriental Land at the beginning. I was unable to find a corresponding American 
source for this anecdote. While it is true that   the Disney company did not seriously engage with 
Oriental Land until 1974, it seems more likely   that this was due to the company being busy 
completing Walt Disney World out in Florida. ## Disney in the 1970s Heading into the mid-1970s, the Walt 
Disney Company had seen better times,   both creatively and financially. While some of their animated films like 1973's 
Robin Hood and 1977's Rescuers did well,   their live-action stuff - movies like "One   of our Dinosaurs is Missing" - 
didn't quite become classics. That funky fossil frolic was nothing 
like my favorite - That Darn Cat. The 1973 Oil Crisis had also left a significant 
impact on the company's theme parks business.   Americans were less able to travel all the way 
to California or Florida to visit a theme park. When it came to Disneyland, the 
company can raise ticket prices,   introduce new types of tickets, and market to 
the large local population. But Walt Disney   World in Florida was meant to be driven 
to, and it suffered from the energy crises. What this meant is that while Disney was 
open to the idea of overseas expansion,   they wanted to approach it in a very 
financially conservative manner. ## Approaching Disney At Oriental Land’s invitation, Disney 
executives came to Japan in 1974. They listened to Oriental Land's pitch 
and reviewed the land. They liked it.   The location was close to the Tokyo 
Metropolitan area. It was bordered by   rivers and the sea on three sides. And 
it looked quite pleasant from the air. Oriental Land was not the only company in 
the bidding. Mitsubishi - Mitsui's arch   rival - invited Disney to build a park on 2,450   acres of land surrounding Mount 
Fuji. Disney executives visited,   but their strong demands as well as a lack of 
funds eventually caused Mitsubishi to drop out. Disney worked on a series of feasibility 
studies and provided them to Mitsui at   cost. Tokyo Disneyland was designed 
to be a close replica of the original   Disneyland - copying several themed areas 
and featuring many of the same attractions. After the concept was finalized, it 
was time to enter into negotiations.   These negotiations would drag on for a 
long time in a stop and start manner. Walt Disney’s financial conservatism at 
the time - they were already investing   in building the Epcot theme park out 
in Florida - meant that they wanted a   reliable revenue stream without 
risking any of their own money. Thus, Oriental Land was asked to 
shoulder all the cost of building   the park. But Disney would retain control 
over the park's design. They also wanted   10% royalty on the admission fees 
as well as food and drink sales. Mitsubishi - Mitsui's arch rival 
who dropped out - had previously   grumbled that Disney "wanted the royalty 
but [wanted to] pay nothing". Mitsui and   the other members of Oriental Land's 
board of directors concurred, saying: > We have never seen such a lopsided 
contract condition and high royalty Mitsui also objected to Disney's demands 
about the length of the contract - 50 years. Their president Azuma Tsuboi (坪井東) said: > It is such a violently moving time 
that we have no way of knowing what is   going to happen 10 years ahead, how come 
we can have a contract for as long as 50   years. Doing so makes it something similar 
to the US-Japan Trade Agreement of the Edo   Period. We will never be able to 
accept such a servile agreement. The US-Japan Trade Agreement reference is 
likely a callback to the Treaty of Kanagawa,   which ended Japan's centuries of seclusion and is   today considered an "unequal treaty". 
This is not to be brought up lightly. ## Negotiations
Things hit their nadir in 1977. Midway through the talks, Keisei began 
suffering the repercussions of the 1973   Oil Shock. In 1977 Kawasaki resigned and Keisei 
took a temporary step back from the negotiations. This left Oriental Land's other equity partner 
Mitsui Fudosan to fill the void. This turned   out to be a disaster. Mitsui Chairman 
Hideo Edo grumbled in an interview: > With ... the internal difficulties in 
Keisei - which was the initiating force   behind our negotiations with Disney - the 
ball landed in Mitsui's field ... We were   obliged to go on with it, although 
we lacked the will from the outset Mitsui Fudosan was a traditional real estate 
company. Their speciality was in towers,   apartments and malls. They had little 
experience in building theme parks.   Real talk, they originally wanted to 
build houses on the reclaimed land. The aforementioned Azuma Tsuboi - the   grumpy Mitsui president - had 
gone on the record as saying: > Disneyland is a remnant of the previous 
century. The Japanese would soon be bored of it. No surprise then that they were not the ideal 
partner to talk to Disney. One of Disney's   two negotiators - lawyer Ron Cayo - felt that 
Mitsui was just waiting for the deal to collapse. There was also a money problem. The Tokyo 
Disneyland budget had blown up from 50   billion to 120 billion yen. Since Disney 
would not help with the construction cost,   Oriental Land had to find some 
way to come up with the money. That means a loan. But the banks were 
cautious about doing business with   Oriental Land. The lead bank Industrial 
Bank of Japan thought it was weird that   Disney was so insistent on just taking a 
fee without an equity stake in the venture. In the end, Oriental Land's new President Masatomo 
Takahashi (高橋政知) saved the day. He was all in on   the Tokyo Disneyland project - seeing it as his 
lasting legacy for Tokyo. A talented negotiator   and a very functional alcoholic, he earlier served 
as Oriental Land’s VP. Back then he wooed the   Urayasu fisherman by taking them to high-end 
restaurants and drinking them towards a deal. Realizing that the project was at a critical 
point, Takahashi went straight to the Chiba   Prefecture Governor Yutaka Yunoki (柚木豊彦). 
He managed to get the land rezoned,   which allowed the banks to issue another 
$550 million in loans for the project. With that done, Takahashi then used all of his   people and political skills to get the 
two sides back together. On the fees,   he asked Disney if they would accept 5% on 
admissions and 5% on all food and beverages. Disney did not accept this. In January 1979,   Disney CEO Donn Tatum sent a 
paper email via post, saying: > If you cannot accept the terms, 
we have to stop this project Disney was confident that 
the park would be a success,   believing that Japanese would be amenable to 
American culture. Thus Takahashi conceded on   the original terms - agreeing to pay 10% of 
admissions and 5% on all food and beverages. Disney's only concession was to 
shorten the contract term from   50 years to 45. That was nice of them, I guess. ## Technology Transfer Building Tokyo Disneyland was a 
massive technology transfer project. Construction began in December 1980. A 
hundred Oriental Land managers went to the   United States for training. 200 Disney employees 
traveled to Japan to provide on-site guidance. Over three hundred technical 
manuals were provided,   laying out procedures. The manuals 
describe what is "Disney-like behavior"   including instructions on how to 
dress and act while on the job. Not everything was transferred one-to-one. Some 
traditional Japanese behaviors were modified   to be in line with the "Disney Way". Famously, 
cast members are requested not to greet guests   with "irasshaimase" - which is traditional for 
businesses and means "Welcome to the store". Tokyo Disneyland asks cast members to unlearn 
this, and instead say the friendlier "konnichiwa".   This is because accepted Japanese conduct 
is that the guest does not have to reply   to "irasshaimase", but they do need to reply 
to "konnichiwa", facilitating communication. Jokes and puns for things like the Jungle 
Cruise attraction had to be completely   rewritten for language or sensitivities. 
Like, "keep your arms inside the boat,   these crocodiles are always 
looking for a hand-out!". When changes were made, they were made in line 
with the spirit of the goals. For instance,   the Western River Railroad does not wind around 
the whole park like it does at Disneyland. This is because if it did, guests would have 
been able to see the surrounding city of Chiba at   various points of the route - and that was judged 
to break the fantasy of being at Tokyo Disneyland.   Thanks to these mechanisms and considerations, 
Tokyo Disneyland opened without a hitch. ## Tokyo Disneyland Opens
The park opened on April 15th, 1983 with six themed lands. About 46 hectares large, 
it was 50% larger than the original Disneyland. It was an immediate hit. Just 
about a month after the opening,   over a million people had 
visited Tokyo Disneyland. In its first year of operations, Tokyo 
Disneyland received over 10.3 million   visitors - smashing all expectations and 
even matching its forerunner in Anaheim. All the money that Oriental Land borrowed for the 
project was paid back within three years. This was   despite the heavy royalties - about 6-7% on the 
whole - that Oriental Land had to pay to Disney. In 1997, Oriental Land paid $60 
million to Disney in fees. In 2016,   the latest number I can find, that had gone 
to an estimated $242 million. Very nice. Japan fell into a long and protracted recession   in the 1990s. Yet Disneyland 
grew all the same. In 1988,   attendance had grown to 15 million visitors. 30 
years later in 2019, nearly 18 million visitors. Key for Oriental Land's growth has been its 
focus on growing visitor in-park spending.   Tokyo Disneyland is more adult-oriented - young 
couples especially like it. During the mid-1990s,   the average visitor spent over $74 in 
an average outing in food and merch. ## DisneySea The plans for Tokyo DisneySea 
came a bit later afterwards. Concepts for a second park - a Hollywood 
studio thing - started in 1988,   with construction start planned for 
1993. However, that fell through due   to Oriental Land's concerns that the Japanese 
did not strongly resonate with movie culture. So Disney transplanted a proposal for a new park 
that they had originally developed for Long Beach,   California. The $2.8 billion Disney Port 
project - centered on a boat called the RMS   Queen Mary - was dropped due to financial issues, 
environmental concerns and local NIMBY backlash. The concept was instead brought to 
Japan for Tokyo DisneySea. It would   target adults who had been children back when 
Tokyo Disneyland opened. And since the Japanese   had a strong attachment to the sea, people 
felt that the DisneySea idea would resonate. Oriental Land and Disney agreed to retain 
the licensing fee structure - with again   some bitterness. In April 1996, the two signed the   basic DisneySea agreement. The concept 
was announced on August 1997. Oriental   Land was left to raise the some $2.5 
billion to build the thing themselves. DisneySea opened on September 4th, 2001, and again 
it has been incredibly popular. It receives almost   as many visitors as Disneyland, making it the 
second most visited theme park in Japan in 2019. ## Conclusion Disney got a guaranteed stream 
of income, which was their goal. However, they could not participate 
in what turned out to be the world's   third and fourth leading amusement parks - as 
measured by pre-pandemic attendance numbers. This left a little taste of bitterness, with 
later Disney president Eisner murmuring in the   1980s that Disney got the short end of the 
stick. FOMO only intensified after Oriental   Land went public on the Tokyo Stock Exchange 
in 1996, and seen great stock growth since. Profits have since grown from $240 million in 
1997 to over $700 million in 2019. After that,   we have attendance caps - you know the COVID and   everything - so things have 
been a bit weird since then. Anyway, Disney has since changed their way 
of operations to have some equity ownership   of their foreign parks. Though as 
the company would soon learn with   Disneyland Paris and Shanghai Disneyland, 
that hasn't been the smoothest road. Meanwhile in 2018, Disney and Oriental 
Land agreed to extend their current   licensing agreement until 2076. So 
far it is working out for everyone.