- Hello, my friends. Vacation Austin here. Now there's something
I wanted to talk about before we get into this video, which was filmed a couple of weeks ago. First and foremost, there
has been some developments when it comes to ASUS, specifically when it
comes to their support. Now I'll be honest with
you, it's not great. Now a few people have made videos on this, and you can go watch those
if you want the details, but the TL;DR is essentially
there were some major lapses when it came to not only
the support being helpful, when it comes to repairs,
when it comes to warranty. There's just some issues that definitely need to be addressed. So while that doesn't
really change the contents of this video, as well as the videos that are gonna be going live
for the rest of this week. So I do have a partnership with ASUS. They are sponsoring this video
and a couple of other things, but I do wanna mention it because
I do think it's important. Now I've had a couple of
conversations with my friends over at ASUS about the situation, and it seems pretty clear to me that they are taking it seriously. So the support team is
making some adjustments, and it's certainly a major,
major issue for them, and it rightfully should be. Support is incredibly important, and when you send in a
product and it comes back, or they start charging you, or all these kind of things that are not what you had
initially sort of expected, that's not great. So I just wanted to mention this at the beginning of this video. Again, the rest of this
video and the video that's coming live
tomorrow were all filmed before all this stuff happened, so I just wanted to make
sure that you're aware that things are changing, things
are trying to be improved, and hopefully, hopefully, the
situation will be resolved. So we'll see. Anyway, back to the studio
before Austin had facial hair, and you know, was enjoying
my best life. (chuckles) Okay, so I'm a little impatient. This laptop showed up yesterday, and while I'm supposed to wait
to get stuff like the specs and the information, well,
that could be for tomorrow. Today, I'm just gonna unbox
it and see what's inside. Now I do know one thing, which is this is the brand
new ASUS Zenbook S16. Inside we have... Okay, so it's got that plasma ceramic aluminum. Oh, okay. I got it. It's a thin boy. It is literally, on it's thickest point, barely as thick as the HDMI and it tapers down significantly. Oh, snap. That gives me some G14 vibe. So it's definitely all aluminum. It's maybe not like the
world's thinnest laptop. I do think it's a little
bit thicker than the S13. So here's my hand and here's
the size of the trackpad. That might be the
physically largest trackpad I've ever seen. Let's actually see what actually comes specs
we're working with here. It is running a AMD engineering sample. Oh, uh-oh. Is this one of those new AMD
CPUs that I've heard about, that's under embargo right now that I don't actually know
the information about? It's got 32 gigs of
RAM, a two-terabyte SSD. It does have an NPU, and
the GPU shows as a Ryzen 9. I'm gonna assume that's
integrated graphics. All right, so it's a 1800P OLED, and it's running at 120 hertz, very nice. Now I have a few weeks to
spend with this laptop, so I'm gonna learn a lot more about it. But my first impression
is that it is super thin with a 12-core future Ryzen chip inside, probably fairly powerful. You can use the trackpad
to change your volume, so I can turn the volume down. I can also change the
brightness up and down. Oh my God, if you do the top, it like fast forwards your video. Whoa, whoa, whoa, look, as I do that, it's like fast forwarding
the video forward and back. Oh, so they must have like
some custom touch points in the trackpad. Oh, it's also got a stylus. What the? I almost missed it. It
comes with the ASUS Pen. So presumably, this is
probably gonna be good for like graphic artists
maybe doing a little bit of like light video editing and perhaps a little bit of gaming. Although you're probably not gonna game on something that's this thin. So I'm gonna crack this thing open, but my biggest question
is what's like the target for this laptop? They're onto me. (laughs) I took the screws out, except there's one in the
middle with a sticker on it. I bet on the other side
of the sticker that says, "Hey Austin, don't take this off." (Austin snickers) (laptop chassis clicks) All right, inside, we have, oh boy. Okay. So we have ourselves a decent
sized 73 watt-hour battery, and pretty sizable speakers here. I mean that's pretty much the whole sort of this side of the device. Now the motherboard is up here. Now even though it is super
thin, it does have dual fans, and they blow out through
these heat sinks on the top.  I actually think that ASUS are doing
something a little unusual 'cause I've never seen any of
their laptops with the design. First of all, like this red stuff here. What could that possibly be? Clearly, to put a relatively powerful chip in a chassis that is
this thin and this light, ASUS had to make some creative decisions when it comes to the cooling, 'cause this all is cooling, right? That's actually a substantial amount. Even though the laptop's not thick, they're making up for
it with surface area. Is this just a super
thin laptop that's meant for Photoshop and Lightroom all day? Or does this have a little
bit more performance? Like how much power can
they really dissipate with this cooling? 'Cause I think that's gonna
really make the big difference on if this is a lightweight
little portable laptop that looks good but doesn't
have a lot of performance, or if this is something that actually has like
some real beans behind it. The design is obviously a major point, and ASUS has a new name for
this finish, Ceraluminum. So the way it works is
the top lid is aluminum that gets blasted by a ton of electricity, which results in the soft touch finish. Definitely a unique look, and it should be much more durable than traditional anodization. Now that same uniqueness also
comes across to the chassis. I can only think of maybe one other company
who makes a 16-inch laptop that is remotely this thin. We're talking 11 millimeters in thickness, and it barely tips the
scales at 3.3 pounds. I do tend to gravitate toward 13 and 14-inch laptops personally just because I really appreciate
the smaller footprint. But if you want a bigger screen, the advantage here is
there's really not a lot of extra weight carrying it in your bag. The next big question
in my mind was cooling. So I did confirm that
they're using a vapor chamber along with the two thin fans as well as a pair of graphite sheets on both sides of the cooler. This is mostly to keep
too much of the heat from transferring to, say
your lap or the keyboard. And the result is a 28-watt TDP, which means that this properly thin laptop can still handle some serious workloads while fitting a very sizable
battery inside as well. The screen is a standout feature, a 3K touchscreen OLED with a buttery smooth
120 hertz refresh rate, which surprise, surprise, looks great. So by no means is this a gaming PC, but with this kind of performance on tap, I did want to try playing
the brand new "Hellblade II". Now this is the very beginning
of the game, so no spoilers. And a couple things jump out to me. First and foremost, this is
a phenomenal-looking game, even on full low settings and
playing at like 1280 by 800. Now if you've ever played
one of these games, you'll know the audio is a
huge part of the experience. Am I cranking on the speakers?
- This dark land, it pushes back. - This puts a lot of the speakers on their gaming laptops to shame. Now you're not gonna want to use this as your gaming laptop, right? Like it's certainly capable of it. Same thing with like, you know, maybe a little bit of
editing or something. You've got the performance there. I understand why AMD waited
for these new Ryzen chips to build a system like this. It has enough performance inside
to get a lot of stuff done, but importantly, still in that
super thin form factor. Now if I'm gonna give you some negatives, there are a couple, one of which is even with
those graphite sheets between the board, the keyboard gets warm, and this thing is incredibly
thin vapor chamber and the fact they're pushing 28 watts, it's a little toasty, right? So especially toward the
top, it's actually warm, but even the keyboard gets a
little bit warmer than I like when you're actually gaming
and sort of running it through an extended bit of load. That being said though, I'm impressed. I still wish that this
had dedicated graphics, but I completely understand
that that's just not possible in this thin form factor, right? And what they've done with this size of this laptop is fill it with a surprisingly rich set of speakers. That's the thing that
I'm almost more impressed about more than anything else. That being said though, for something that's
this thin and this light, it's actually a pretty good experience for lighter gaming and
lighter creative tasks. And with that Ryzen AI chip as well as a Windows Hello webcam, it is very snappy to wake up from sleep. As you can see here, the quality is actually pretty
solid on the webcam too. So when you put this all together, it's a very interesting device because you've got a
large 16-inch form factor that's super thin, but you also have a very
nice 120 hertz OLED display. You've got those terrific speakers. But let's get real for a second. This isn't the normal kind
of laptop that I look at. So typically when you have a larger laptop that's supposed to be thin and light, the size means that it
doesn't really feel all that thin or light, but this really does. I always assume when I have
a larger device like this, I expect a little bit
of extra performance. Now something like a dedicated
GPU seems like it's normally what you're gonna find
in a 16-inch device, especially when you have
such a solid port selection like HDMI, USB-A, SD card reader, USB4. But the thin and light design
does make this a bit unique, and to be fair, it does have a lot of performance thanks to that new Ryzen AI SoC. You get all the fancy new features. There's a lot to like here. I'm a little torn because I don't really
have a lot to criticize. This is an incredibly
well-thought-out design that it's great for the right person. I just might personally
prefer the smaller S13, really just to maximize the portability. Regardless though, definitely be sure to go check out the S16
in the link in description if you want to learn more. And of course, huge thank you to ASUS for sponsoring this video. Stay tuned too. It is Computex time, and I've got a lot more cool
stuff coming up real shortly. (upbeat music)