- [Producer] Oh. - [Ken] We give him presents and he just drops them on the floor. - Okay. Gaming cup noodles.
What makes these gaming? - [Ken] So, it has like caffeine and a bunch of other things in it. - Oh, you know what? It's
shrimpy. It's super shrimpy. - It's garlic and shrimp, I believe it. - It is. Matt, you're gonna get high smelling this. - [Producer] Yes, the- - Oh, let's go. Oh, that's smells so good. - [Producer] It's literally
called energy garlic. - I love how you just glide over to Matt like here Matt sniff this and he's the one that's allergic. - I'm allergic, he just like- - You'll give the best reaction to it. Cooking is activated. I'll be right back, once I've
poured them into the sink. - There's like a 70% chance he's gonna set the building on fire. - [Producer] By the
way, that has 41 grams, milligrams of caffeine. - Okay, grams and milligrams
are two very different numbers. - So basically half a cup of
coffee in your cup noodle. So actually not like an insane
amount of caffeine, I'll say. But I know the caffeine's bitter. So if you add a lot of
caffeine to something, that's why coffee tastes
the way it tastes, is like you've got that
sort of flavor in it. - Oh yeah, I know. I experience bitter every
day when I talk to Matt. - [Austin] That's fair, actually that's, he has a lot of regrets. - Wait, that's not where
they were connected, why are you doing it that way? - No, I do it this way anyway just to make sure that
there's nothing on the ends. Just a warning for headphone users that, it's coming your way? - That's about as good as
cup noodles can get it. - Yeah, I agree with
that, I agree with that. - Now the fact that's got caffeine in it is a little bit of fine, I would say I would rather have caffeine with like coffee or something,
but I mean it's not bad. I will say I don't usually
like the garlicky flavors. It's fine. But if you like garlic, I mean
this is actually quite nice. - Did you just say you
don't like garlic flavors? - No, not really. - [Producer] You've just
insulted his entire heritage. - Mm, I don't like it. - Don't bother touch my Spaghetti. - A huge thank you to the
sponsor of this video, Acronis. Acronis' Cyber Protect Home Office is still one of the best data backup and cyber protection personal
solutions on the market, but now, with identity protection. Cyber criminals are getting smarter and even using AI to
enhance their attacks. In 2022, over $10 billion has been stolen through identity theft. Think it won't happen to you? You're vulnerable even
when ordering food online, shopping or booking a flight. Don't let that happen to you. Acronis provides real-time monitoring and alerts for identity theft attempts. But just in case anything does happen, Acronis' certified experts are available to help you restore
your losses and identity 24 hours a day, seven days a week with up to a million dollars
of identity fraud insurance. So if you need award-winning
backup software, malware protection, and now identity theft all in one easy to use
dashboard, Acronis has your back. Just use code Austin Evans
2023 for a 40% discount, which we use for all home office products. And thank you very much to Acronis for supporting the channel
and protecting us all. What is inside of here? - [Matt] Bubble wrap? - Yeah. Well, it's something
that's nicely packaged. Okay. The Analogue Duo, now hold on a second. - [Ken] Ah. - So if you're not familiar, Analogue is a company who
do retro gaming right. So this is a care package
from Analogue I'm guessing. - [Producer] Yes. Especially considering it
is still on pre-order and, so, we got this super early. - Well, thank you Analogue
for hooking us up. So we have a couple of 8BitDo controllers which are quite nice,
and they are micro USB. Well, immediately we'll say
wonderful packaging and that- - [Ken] That's it?
- Yeah. This looks dope. So it's got a CD-ROM drive. It also, I assume is where, this is where the cards would go in. You can run the majority
of TurboGrafx games using this device. It does look kind of like
metal, but it is plastic. However, it feels really nice. They also have this like lovely like sort of like rubber
texture on the bottom. First impressions is based on what Analogue
have done in the past, there's a lot of care, love, and attention that has gone into this. So, let us start by turning on the unit and hoping that it works. Aye! So we are using this with a plasma, which obviously, this is meant to be used
with modern television since it has an HDMI. But this is, this is an HDMI plasma. So we're kind of splitting
the difference here. So this is one of the areas I think Analogue does
a really good job of. Essentially, all of their hardware allow you to customize the display. So for example, when it
comes to Analogue Pocket, you can change the actual
RGB values of the screen. So if you want it to
be original like green, like the original Game Boy, you wanna have different
color palettes or whatever. And it seems like much the same thing here where they allow you to change,
I'm sure like scan lines, the actual scaling, like typically
they do a pretty good job of giving you a good
level of customization, especially if you're trying
different types of hardware. So, let us start out with PC Circus '91. Oh, I mean, immediately
that HDMI looks terrific. Now if I press select
and then left and right, I can change the modes. System, Headphones, HDMI, I'm gonna just play it as it is for now. So I've played this game
a little bit before, it is really fast. Now the advantage of the Duo being an FPGA is that it's not really emulating, it's running the actual
games, the actual cards, and it is doing it the exact same way that the original hardware would do it. And it'll say that, as
far as I'm concerned, this looks exactly the same. And now, we're gonna
try a Super CD-ROM game, which is a gorilla playing baseball. I'm ready to baseball it up. So do I wanna play manual, auto
catch, simulation, or auto? Ha, ha, ha, auto, please. So this is a sprite based game. I think that pretty much
everything PC Engine was pixel based. It's not actually gonna be 3D stuff, but this is like sort of the era where sprite and pixel based content was kind of at its peak, right? 'Cause I think after this
people moved to 3D and sort of, it's a different sort of era, but like look at like the
fidelity of these graphics. Like it's cool. Auto is like literally
I'm not playing the game. So I will say that the Analogue
Duo is a niche product, but that's what I love on Mystery Tech, something weird, something unusual, clearly a labor of love
on behalf of Analogue. So it's not for the vast
majority of you, I'll say. If you see this, you think
this thing looks dope, check it out the link
description, I'll drop there. I don't know, when you're watching this I think the pre-orders are
still probably gonna be live. From everything I'm seeing here, did a really good job of bringing
an old series of consoles back to life in a very modern way. Coming in hot. Oh it's actually very light
and it's a Union Jack. - [Matt] Hello Governor. - [Austin] Sure, sure. - [Matt] Wow, Austin Evans
disrespects the Union Jack. Oh, caught in 4K. - Okay, so it's just some box stuff and there's a letter inside, should I read the letter or no? - [Ken] Yeah. - "Hey Austin, my son and I are long-term fans of you in the channel. We live in Manchester, England." Oh, I'm sorry for slicing the
Union Jack open my friend. - [Joanna] Oh gosh,
don't you feel bad now? - I do feel bad. - [Matt] What a jerk. - Sorry, I just, I was
opening a box. Okay. "We saw your recent studio tour video and your PSA graded Pokemon cards on the stands on your shelf, and we heard that you
like to swap them around. So we sent you one of our
graded card slab storage boxes, we put a generic geometric
shaped circle on top. If it resembles anything familiar, it must be a coincidence." Yeah, surely not a Poke Ball or anything. Jack and Chris, thank you very much. I, in fact, do keep a rotating selection of PSA grade slabs in my office and this looks quite exciting. Oh, you already grabbed my slabs. Let's see what we've got here. Oh yo, wait, wait, wait. Yo, this actually looks really cool. Look, I see what you mean about
the generic geometric shape. Can't imagine what that could possibly be. Oh, oh, oh, I get it, I get it. So you're supposed to put
the slabs along the side. Oh that actually looks really
cool, that is very cool. And you can put this on top. I see what they mean about like if you actually put
on like a rotating stand so you can just sit there
and watch your card spin. This is really neat, and it really fits those slabs well. You can tell it's definitely made for PSA. It's not literally wobbling
around or anything. I wouldn't necessarily notice
that this is 3D printed unless I actually took a
little bit of a closer look, like it's actually really nicely done. Chris and Jack, thank you very much, I will gladly use this to display some of my cards in my office. Shout out to Chris and Jack. They didn't even like plug
their like store or whatever, I don't even know where
you could buy this. This is very, very nice. Aha. The 8BitDo retro mechanical keyboard. So 8BitDo are typically known for their Bluetooth controllers,
they have a large range. And honestly, most of
them are pretty solid. What I don't like is the
fact that nowhere on this box does it say what kind of switches. It just says mechanical, which is probably not gonna
leave you a lot of confidence. That's like saying your car has engine not a V8 or something. It has all the gamer stickers I need like, - [Matt] Emo! ♪ 'Cause tonight will be the night ♪ ♪ That I'll fall for you ♪ - [Austin] I don't know if I love it. So, USB-C on the back, but it also have a A, B, X, Y like little like AUX connectors. What? - [Ken] Huh? - [Austin] What?
- [Ken] Huh? - Okay, this makes a
little bit more sense now. So you're not just getting the keyboard, you're getting the chunky
buttons where you can- - [Ken] That's so you can
play Family Feud with a- - [Producer] Yeah, that's what those stickers
are supposed to be for. - Oh. - [Ken] Get the hell out. - [Matt] What's the emo button then? - The problem with this
board, how much is it? - [Producer] A hundred dollars. - Okay.
- Oh actually- - I feel better at a hundred, I was assuming it's like 200 bucks, okay. - Dude it has, it has a power light. - Nevermind, nevermind. Let me do a little
typing test here and see. That was actually my very first run, 92 words per minute, 100% accuracy. It is rare for me to land on a keyboard and not have a little bit
of an adjustment period. I will say my favorite part of this by far are the actual switches. I think that, I like
the clickiness of them, the keys themselves, I
like the actual key caps. It, this is solid. Like honestly, I think I was
a little bit negative on it 'cause I assumed it was gonna be way more
expensive than it is. At a hundred bucks very
little to complain about. I wish that they had maybe
spent a little bit more money on like the build quality and some little fit and finish things to just kind of take
it to that next level. And honestly, I kinda wish that they just put some weights in it just to make it feel a little bit heavier. 'Cause like very sort
of hollow on the bottom, but at a hundred bucks, I
cannot complain, this is neat. - Oh please don't throw that one. - Oh, no. Okay. Nondescript brown box. I see Japanese characters. A Canon Transformers Optimus Prime R5. And also it comes from someone who's given me a five Yen
coin, which is worth, oh. - [Ken] Half of a penny.
- Yeah. That's very nice though, that's very, you know, thoughtful of them to give a neat little five Yen. Here, don't spend it all in one place. - Oh, geez! - This is Optimus Prime who turns into a Canon R5,
which is kind of great. I'll admit, this is kind of great. And then you said this goes with it. - [Matt] Well, what does
every Transformer need? - [Ken] An SD card? - A nemesis to make the
episode really entertaining. Oh wait, it's a USB.
He sprouted a USB port. I don't see a face or anything anywhere. I'll let you do this while
I try to build the Canon. - I love how there's no assembly required, yet it's still a challenge for him. I can't wait for you to
unbox the real thing. - Yeah, I'm a little
afraid of this next one. 'Cause like, here's the thing, I am zero for zero for building
these things correctly. Well, can I just ask, why does
his USB stick out of this? What? What? What is it? - [Matt] Does your USB
not stick out your butt? What do you do? Oh my god. - Oh, we got to censor that, sorry, sorry. - [Matt] Offending the entire '80s. - Oh, this is cute. Lens cap and our 24 to
105, oh, that's that. Oh look, wait, I see legs
inside. I see legs inside, okay. So this is gonna pop out of there, yep. And then we've also got
our Canon R5 itself, which obviously is much smaller
than the real thing, but. - [Ken] This is-
- [Matt] Also, this went, this went rear window real fast. - Yeah, POV you're in the
bathroom and you see Austin Evans. - We also have a baby model of
the camera, which is adorable and just really, really
little, really, really little. Oh yeah! Yeah, I got that, that's fine. - [Ken] It's all pictures,
you should be able to get it. - Okay, that's already
things are happening. So his legs are supposed to spread now. - [Matt] Well. - So on this step where... - Okay, I'm willing to admit this is a little bit complicated. - And there we go. After a mere three minutes of building our Transformer has
rolled out and assembled into a 93% correct
implementation of Optimus, the Canon R5 camera. - [Matt] And now he's can
take pictures of the wildlife with the other one. - Yeah, exactly. - [Ken] Dattebayo. - Is it time? Is it time? (upbeat music) - [Matt] Wow, is that the One Piece? - Don't you do it. - [Ken] Boogie water. - I don't have the headband, but I feel ready for this next item. - [Matt] I still like the
sexy Magikarp on pin. - Oh! For that, dude, that was a Mystery Tech from like four years
ago. I forgot about that. I'm assuming that this is a
Naruto-themed HyperX item? What is this? - [Matt] You don't need the headband when. - Is it a headband built
into some headphones? I'm a little rusty on Naruto, I haven't seen it in a long time, so. - [Matt] Just all you gotta do- - My references aren't good. I don't know my sexy
clone jujitsu, I lost it. That just looks offensive Matt,
that just looks offensive. Oh, you can't show that, oh my god, oh. Inside we have HyperX has
you covered. I'm sure you do. Wait, wait, these are
just orange headphones. What? I mean they're kind of cool. Wait, this is just a
regular 3.5 mil headset? And it does have the detachable boom. So I just attached this here. This is the normal HyperX
Cloud Alpha headset just with a Naruto colorway. It actually, you know, I mean,
this metal feels pretty nice, very plush headband. I will say the orange and the
black stitching looks nice, this looks a little like cheapy to me. It's just like sort of screen printed on. Where's my Bluetooth? This is... Go blu mobile bluetooth headphone amp. Okay. So, I'm guessing I just plugged this in and then it will mobily
bluetoothsized my headset. - [Ken] Yeah, in theory. - Okay, all right. Inside we have an instruction. Oh, that's really tiny, oh, you know what? Okay, now I get it. That is- - [Ken] That's cute. - [Matt] So much smaller than
I thought it was gonna be. - Yeah, that's really good. So we got USB-C on the
bottom, we have a microphone. Oh listen to this. Nice tactile response. And we have ourselves, oh look at that, a little leather bag. This thing is actually really like legit. My problem with these, traditionally, it's just been, I don't
wanna carry it around. Like honestly I'm lazy,
like I'm not gonna do it, but this is small enough. If it has remotely decent battery life that's actually like,
I mean, that's not bad. So just playing around this, there's a lot of stuff going on here. So you can not only have it call out to you what kind
of Bluetooth you're getting. So it's aptX right now, 44.1 kilohertz. USB-C socket isn't just a charging port, it also plays up to 24 bit 96
kilohertz directly from USB. - [Ken] Let's go. - So if you want to, you
could use it for Bluetooth or as an actual little DAC, this is neat. I feel like, how much is this? 'Cause I feel this is gonna be expensive. - [Producer] $200. - So the DAC this little guy cost $200, whereas my headphones cost 75, so my problem here is I just
can't really fully judge the quality of this just because these headphones are fine. I mean, I'll listen a little bit more, but like they're not, they're
not blowing me away over here. I'm cranking up to almost full
volume and it's still not- - [Matt] Are the headphones
cranked? Yeah, like or the... - Oh my god, there's an inline
control for the headphones. Ah! Ah! I hear the headphones clipping
'cause it's so much power. Okay, nevermind, this little
guy packs one hell of a punch. - What is this? - [Ken] Jesus.
- [Matt] Oh god. - [Ken] Oh. - They don't sound great even
with a absolute badass DAC. And honestly given how loud that was and how many different features, like this thing actually
does seem to be pretty legit. Now, to give it a proper go, I would need to not only try it via USB-C, connect it to some headphones
that are actually worthy of being driven by something like this, but this thing seems neat. It was easy to set up. It's super tiny, which I appreciate. I'm just not gonna carry
something big and bulky. Like I just don't care enough
about a Hi-Fi audio experience to carry a bunch of nonsense, right? Like I want something that's super thin, super lightweight, super
portable, this is actually cool. (thunder rumbling)