- Inside this box is the dumbest Apple
product I've ever purchased, and that's saying something. I would explain, but it's better (table thumping)
to just show you. Behold, my friends, my new computer, (foam squeaking)
(rhythmic music halting) an iMac. Yeah, I'm not kidding. This is my new computer. I custom ordered a very expensive, yellow iMac. The way this one's set up might be the only one in existence, because I don't think
anyone is dumb enough to order an iMac the
way that I ordered it, and by I, I mean I asked
Ken to help me order it, and then he ordered it wrong, so, it's even weirder. (chuckles) (Ken laughing) Now, you might look at this and think that it is an
incredibly questionable purchase, but when you see my existing office, you'll see that I have a lot of room to make some improvements. So, before we get started, let me give you a tour
of my actual office. I've shown this in videos in the past, but I've always cleaned it up,
we've tried to decorate it. This is what it actually looks like. I actually need to kinda,
like, design this sort of setup a little bit more. It's still a little bit
basic, but there's that. The couch, I can't show you. We're gonna have to censor all of this, 'cause (clears throat)
this is where I leave embargo products that
have not been dealt with, so, we're just gonna move on from that. Then you'll see this, my Samsung Frame TV. Now, there's a little bit
of a theme in my office, where I have a lot of items
that don't really make a lot of sense from a value perspective, but I irrationally want it, and I wanted one of these
Frame TVs for a while. So, my existing setup
is basically unchanged since something like 2016. So, a lot of it is built around
my LG UltraFine 5K monitor. Now, I'll be honest, I love this display. This is the original launch model, and I've used it for many years. The problem is that it is
starting to go out on me. Not only have I ever since day one had Bluetooth and 2.4 gigahertz interference, which means that things
like Bluetooth mice tend to be a little bit flaky with me, but on top of that, especially
the last year or so, I've been getting this purple fringing around the edges of the display. It's fine, but it's
getting worse and worse, and honestly, I know that I'm gonna have to give up eventually. Look, I'm stubborn, it's a
really good display, I like it, but it is definitely
time for a replacement. The problem is, is that with
my office, what I tend to do, because I have a lot of
products come in and out, a lot of stuff, it all just
kind of lives on the desk. I gotta stop doing that. I know I gotta stop doing that, but for now, that's where things live. I am going to fix this desk. That is my goal for this video. So, I'm going to upgrade and
completely redo my setup. Now, this setup is really
designed to be used with a laptop, and that's been my primary system, so, it's been a number of
laptops over the years, but I've pretty much
always taken my laptops and plugged them in
via a Thunderbolt dock, which then goes to the 5K
display, 10 gig ethernet, all that kind of stuff. It's really quite a good setup for me, because I can take the laptop
with me when I go home, when I travel, when I come to the office, one system everywhere. Now, there are other, like, 4K
monitors and stuff out there. There are even some
OLEDs that are tempting, but to me, it feels like
this is a good opportunity to try to go back to a
device that I have wanted to use since day one, which is the iMac. The issue though is that using a base iMac becomes a little bit of a challenge when it comes to doing a little
bit more of creative tasks, you are running lots of apps and stuff, because all those base iMacs only have eight gigabytes of RAM. Now, we've talked about this in the past. We made an entire video
using the MacBook M3, the MacBook Pro with eight gigs of RAM. It is a usable setup,
but for me, it's not... I'm not gonna, look, it's 2024, I am not gonna daily drive a system. I don't care, Apple Silicon or
not, with eight gigs of RAM, that's just not an option. This is a good opportunity for
me to actually tidy, clean, and redesign this setup with at least a little bit of thought in mind. (screen whooshing)
Big thank you to the sponsor of today's video, Bitdefender. Bitdefender is constantly rated as one of the best cybersecurity
companies in the industry. Tons of the biggest companies in the world rely on their technology, but now, any business
can have Bitdefender's enterprise-level protection with GravityZone Small Business Security. When you think of cyber attacks, you might think of a hacker breaking through your firewall, but did you know that almost 90% of successful cyber attacks
start with email phishing? That's when a criminal
literally goes fishing for your critical information. Criminals use social engineering, usually emails to impersonate
legitimate businesses, or pretend to be someone you know, hoping you take the bait and click on something you shouldn't. All it takes is for one person in a hurry, or not being careful enough
(alarm ringing) to make a single mistake,
and it can all be gone. With GravityZone Small Business Security, you've got a multilayered defense, starting by blocking anyone impersonating real businesses that you work with. It also automatically blocks
known phishing websites, and continuously scans content for malicious payloads that can steal your security credentials. Best of all, GravityZone
Small Business Security is flexible. Set the level of protection that you need, and let the robust defense
system do the rest. Just use the link in the description to get yourself an
exclusive 50% off discount. And another huge thank you to Bitdefender for not only sponsoring this video, but for keeping us safe. (screen whooshing)
So, this is my 24-inch iMac. It looks so weird with this VESA stand. Take a look at... (upbeat music) Wow, that is a white-ass bezel. I'm gonna put this back on now. We're just gonna cover this up. (crew laughing)
I'm gonna show, make sure that I keep my
screen nice and protected until I get it on the actual VESA arm. The way I'm going to
configure this in my office, is this is going to be on a VESA arm, so I actually have some
sort of flexibility, because the base stand that it comes with is a very short, squat, little thing that just adjusts a little bit of tilt. So, that was one of the main things that I wasn't sure I wanted, and then Ken ordered it with a VESA arm, and then I was like, "Okay,
I guess I'm gonna commit to the VESA life?" Oh, good lord. - I mean, I have the
Slack message. (chuckles) I basically sent you the invoice, did not realize it was VESA, and you were just like,
"Ah, the one with the VESA. Ah, actually, (duck quacking)
it, I'll just order it." - That is an exact quote?
(Ken laughing) - That's literally what you said. I didn't even have time to respond to you. You made your decision up on your own. - [Austin] That is
exactly what I said, yes. - [Ken] You could have turned back. (screen whooshing)
- So, it is time to start cleaning up this desk. I need to order a bunch of accessories, a bunch of peripherals. I have some ideas right now, but this is the starting point, and hopefully by the end of this video, this whole setup will be much
tidier, and much, much cooler. (Austin muttering indistinctly) Yeah, yeah, there you go. (arm thumping) I did it. (bright music) So, with my VESA arm built, it is time to layer our iMac into place. Goodbye to this beautiful, gold exterior that I'm never gonna see, 'cause I'm looking at
it from the other side. All right, I'm gonna
adjust this very slightly, tighten everything down, and we're gonna get this
iMac up and running. My questionable decisions continue. Ready and... (computer chiming) Whoo! Those speakers are actually not bad. I have a little bit of
second thoughts right now, I'm not gonna lie. Screen's a little small, a little small, but something that's
small, never hurt anybody. (bwow intensifies) I'm gonna see how well I like this iMac, and I'm gonna start
thinking about the rest of the desk, but, I feel good. Asterisk, a little nervous. (screen whooshing)
And now, the peripherals are in, it is time to
look at my new desk setup. So, in addition to my yellow iMac, I also have this keyboard, which was built for me by
Betty from Switch and Click. I have swapped out the key caps to make them a little
bit more Mac friendly, but on top of that, I am
using the Magic Trackpad that came with the iMac, plus
my Logitech MX Master 3S. All of this is on a yellow desk pad. As you can see, I've tried,
not super successfully, but I've tried to get a little bit of color coordination with this setup. I also now have some basic
things, like a headphone holder, and an Anker USB-C charger on my desk, where I can charge laptops,
and phones, and you name it, but I'll tell you what, I've been using this iMac setup for a few weeks, and I'm actually kind of happy with it. So, let's discuss the iMac M3 It's not terrible. You know, you've got
the Apple M3 processor, which is very powerful, even today. So, you've got very good
single thread performance, enough sort of graphics, and
sort of general horsepower to do things like editing, which I've had zero problem with, and you've also got a very
nice, 24-inch, 4.5K display. What I've been using this iMac for is a mixture of basic
tasks, like, you know, web browsing, and writing,
and researching everything, but I also do a lot of
video editing on this. Now, primarily, the things that I edit these days are Shorts, so, certainly a little bit
(graphic whooshing) easier to handle, but I will tell you this,
the M3 has had absolutely no problem chewing through it. It shouldn't be a surprise. I used to edit our main
videos on my M1 MacBook Pro all the time back in 2020, so, the fact that this has
significantly more performance than that easily makes it powerful enough for anything I want to throw at it, but I will say, it'd be really nice if at least I could have
outfitted this with the M3 Pro. That is still a significant
step up in performance, and because they've
got the pro-level chips in something like the Mac Mini, I don't understand why they
couldn't put it in the iMac. It does feel like they're
sort of artificially trying to separate out their product line, and let's be real, they
probably don't sell that many of these iMacs. It is a very niche product
that is much more so for consumers than for
actual professional use, but it just looks so cool, right? It's one thing for me to tell
you all about my new setup. I need to actually bring in an expert. Luke Miani has made many,
many, many wonderful videos on the Apple products of
yesteryear and tomorrow, but does he approve of my setup? (screen whooshing)
Behold, my friends, this is very secretive, my office setup. Can I direct your attention
to my setup over here? And can I get your honest opinion, unbiased, as much as possible? Don't tell me what I wanna hear. - Okay, first off, I love this keyboard. The keyboard, 10 outta 10. Now, the yellow iMac... - Uh-huh? - I'm not sold on it. - Oh really?
- I'm not sold on it. It's... (Austin and Luke laughing) See, the thing is they need a bigger iMac. - What?
- I miss the 27-inch iMac. - [Austin] It's a little small. - It's a little small, but I like the idea that you've done here. I like the coordinated
yellow, that's a good touch. - So, I've had this setup now
for about three weeks now, so, I've been spending some time on it. My thoughts are I'm gonna
replace this VESA arm. - With a yellow one. - Well, I need something that's less ugly. I actually wanna put,
like, a small display. I was actually thinking about maybe running an iPad with Sidecar. I was thinking about it, - Oh.
- 'Cause I want something that's kind of small. - I like that.
- More so just, like, to kind of put, like, just a little bit of extra information down there. Some of the other things I've got here, and in fact, this is new to you, because I've spent the last
couple of weeks tweaking and tuning this setup. I now have the Osmo Pocket,
which now functions as a webcam. So, now, I have a decent webcam, which you can see will actually follow me. So, as I move around, get
close, get farther away, it works pretty well. I also have the Neumann mic, which I can just pull right down here. So, if I need to podcast,
I can just be ready to go as quickly as this. Hit a couple of buttons with the lights, (remote clattering)
it feels good. This is the setup now. I'm gonna evolve it more. I've already established some
areas that need improvement, - Mm-hmm.
- But does it get the Luke Miani seal of approval? - Oh yeah, this is an excellent
setup, you have my seal. Would you like a handshake to confirm it? - Thank you, appreciate it. So, you agree that a
$2000 iMac is a good idea? Thank you very much.
- No, no, no, no, no. Wait a minute, wait a minute. (Luke chuckling)
- So here's the next part of the video that I've been waiting to talk about for a long time. This iMac, (hands clapping)
let me actually show you how expensive this was. You look at the iMac, it
starts at 1,300 bucks, right? But who wants no USB 3 ports, gigabits, and then nah, of course not. And you also have to go
up to the higher configs for the colors.
- The colors. - [Austin] So, we're
starting at 1,700 bucks, then we go out to $1,900.
(cash register chiming) - [Luke] God. - [Austin] And then we
had another 50 bucks for the Trackpad,
(cash register chiming) making this computer
(pen scratching) $1,949 for an M3 iMac. (exhales) Is this still
Luke Miani approved? - You don't even have a terabyte. (Austin wheezing) - [Austin] No, I could have! That would've been just another 200 bucks. That would've been 2,000, I wanted to keep it under-
- That's insane. - I wanted to keep it
reasonable at less than $2,000. Well, you know what? Have you ever made an irrational purchase? Have you ever done something dumb because your heart told you to? - Yeah, I bought an M2 Ultra Mac Pro. (Austin laughing) Even I'm not that dumb. - Yeah.
- Well, you made some videos out of it, though. - I did. - I'm making a video out
of this, which helps me to justify.
- There you go, I mean, only YouTubers could
justify it, then, is what we're basically saying.
- That's true, that's true. This is my new system. I am quite happy with it. I really like the aesthetic of it. I like the fact that it is
really a super minimal setup. I don't have to have the tower, I don't have to have the laptop. It is outrageously expensive, but if you can get past that price, or just don't configure it with a VESA arm and everything, like I
have, it's really solid. (screen whooshing)
So, is the M3 iMac worth it? No, it is not, it is not. It is not a hard conversation to have. Now, if something like the
iMac is interesting to you, I would highly recommend
to consider a refurb model. When you're talking about
sub-$1,000 for a system, even with an M1 that has
still plenty of performance, you've got years of updates down the line, Apple Silicon, a beautiful display, it's not an actually bad system. It really is pretty solid. The problem though is that
when you get into the value. When you look at the upgrades, when you look at trying to get this thing to, like, a reasonable sort of spec, it is absurdly expensive. And the fact that the iMac does not have any CPU options at all is
incredibly frustrating, because if it had the
pro chip as an option, that would make such a big
difference to the performance. Thank you very much for watching. Don't do what I do, but what you can do is subscribe to the channel on the ringaling that dingaling button. If you don't, then, a charge for $1,949 will be magically debited
out of your account, and Tim Cook will be hiding in the bushes, laughing maniacally that someone
finally bought this iMac, the only one that they've
ever made like this, because it's dumb. (upbeat music)