(upbeat music)
(drumming) - Why am I starting with a hat? All right, hey guys, this is Austin. And today, Ken's gonna
make me look stupid, which is really nothing new, particularly. (banging) Is this what you got at E3? So we were shooting a video
at E3 a couple of months ago, or a month ago, and Ken made me look away as he had to purchase
some Mystery Tech item. - [Ken] You like Fortnite. - No, I got my ass kicked on the stupid Fortnite spinny thing. - [Matt] That was a very
special moment for me. - Is this a onesie, what is this? What, it's got the... (laughing) Oh no! No, man,
aw man! Do I have to do, look, it's way too big, wait, no look, look, it's like way too big. - [Ken] By the way, it was $70, so... - Why you gotta tell me that? What is, it's got pockets,
that's good at least. How's that, Matt? Does my audio sound
great with my hoodie on? - [Matt] Ya sound as great as you look. - [Ken] So you have a lot of frustration that you wanna vent out,
so feel free to write it. (banging) - "The Rocketbook Everblast." Oh, I've actually heard about these. So is this one of the
ones where you can write and put in the oven, or you can erase it with some kind of
special ink or something? "Everblast is an endlessly
reusable notebook you can use with any pen
in the pilot FriXion line." Oh, the FriXion Pens, oh those are cool. So you literally, it's
like an erasable pen. Oh word, this is cool. Oh no. - [Matt] Ken! What did we tell you
about water on the table? - Do you not remember
last time when water got in all of our power-- Oh, what? What? Oh, okay. I mean, it looks like
a pretty okay notebook. It's got some grid lines and
a QR code, which I assume-- (sniffing) Ugh. (sniffing) Ugh, that's the worst smelling
notebook I've ever smelled. "Do not microwave this notebook." It's not a big notebook,
it's what, 30 Pages? - [Ken] But it's reusable. - Yeah I guess, how
many pages do you need, but you can just erase it. All right. So, with that, ah dude (water dripping),
was that necessary? - [Ken] Can never be too sure. - I think this is enough water. - [Ken] I believe it said
"damp" not "soaking." - That's an uncomfortable noise. Well I can see already,
it's literally running away. So if I just rub it, oh it's gone. Totally gone. (high-pitched voice) Hi, my name's Ken. I make really questionable
decisions on Mystery Tech. And I make Austin-- oh no.
(banging) Oh, wait wait wait. A Stirling engine? Please don't tell me I have
to build this (laughs). So this is a physics toy which will be an electricity generator. All right, (mumbles) this is fine. How much was this
particular Stirling engine? - [Ken] $100 - Oooh, little pricey! Curiosity is the most
powerful thing you own. Do you own your curiosity? I feel like your curiosity owns you. This is very deep. Oh look at this. Yoo,
that's actually really cool! So we need alcohol, which is 95% pure. This better not have come out of the Mystery Tech
budget (bouncy music). You don't have any actual alcohol do you? We need, like, rubbing alcohol. Oh, you did come prepared. Ha you got me. How much was this? - [Ken] The Don or The... - Yeah this. - [Ken] Oh. A lot.
I bought it to share. - Oh no really? You weren't
going to drink this by yourself? You don't just pop a
bottle of 2009 Dom Pérignon and just be like, (high-pitched voice) I'm Ken Bolido, gulp gulp gulp gulp gulp. (lighter lighting) Oh
that looks excellent. All right, we're gonna
gently move this underneath, without burning myself. Okay that is a big flame. So now we need to wait about 30 seconds for the thing to warm up and then I should just be able to give it a little kickstart and we will have ourselves
a Stirling engine. This is pretty cool and that's
definitely a solid flame. Oh it almost started there. Oh look at that! Ho-ho! Dude! - [Ken] Oh, it's RGB! - Look at that! So this is a
100% alcohol powered engine. So essentially the alcohol is
being fed through the wick, it is lighting up our chamber, which is then, I'm guessing, just like adding enough heat to sorta pressurize this piston. And then that is spinning a flywheel which is running a generator and giving ourselves a tiny little LED. Yo, dude this thing is really cool! Even sounds like an engine. You hear that? Oh it's even speeding up! This is so cool! And then (blows), it
should run out of power and slowly turn itself off. (Stirling engine running) Oh no. That might be one of the coolest items we've ever had on Mystery Tech. I can even forget my stupid eyeballs. (banging) (Austin closing studio door) I just stormed out of the room and there's a dude who just gave me the weirdest look ever. I literally turned right back around and walked inside cause
I was so embarrassed. God (bleep). Look there's
only one Roboraptor. There a bunch of weird derpy cousins, thank you very much Matt,
you're a real supporter. There's a bunch of derpy cousins, and stupid versions, but this is the OG. This is what really
keeps Mystery Tech alive. (laughing)
Wait, wait. Do you realize how dumb this looks? (laughing) He's got a rocket launcher on him. All right, this is going to be fun. So I'm fueling up this
stupid dinosaur with water - [Matt] Do you guys
know how to use water? (roaring) - [Austin] Oh! Ohh, what? What? All right, yoooo, this is actually cool. (disco music) (crashing) Yeah, oh yes! Fight, fight, fight Whoa! Whoa! Get it! Get it!
Get it Roboraptor! Ohh, oh, it's dead. (crashing) Yes! Roboraptor is victorious!
Good job. The new one has fire breathing and - no oh okay, well, no, don't fall. It's okay, he's just really excited because he won that battle. It's like it died. It's just like breathing
smoke and trying to get up. (indistinct talking) Yeah okay, Roboraptor wins this round. - [Ken] Also, now is a
very good time to point out that I made a Twitter
account for Roboraptor. - [Matt] Follow it, FOLLOW IT NOW! - I'm getting sweatier and
sweatier the longer we go. All right, Square Bear? What?
Oh! Why do I have to build things? I don't want to build things, Ken. So this is Square Bear. So I have to put this together? - [Ken] No, it's a bear
figure that comes in a square. - Oooohhh. Oh.
Okay, all right. This is the bear? I just made the bear right now? - [Matt] Have you seen a bear? (fumbling) I'm looking at the box and it doesn't look like
you got it that well. (crashing) - Done. (banging) Status?
(high-pitched voice) Oooooohhh So you guys may be familiar with my love of Status headphones. The CB-1s have lived in my bag for years. That is until they
finally broke, actually, a couple of months ago. So this is the SAHD-1BT. The BT1, as the kids say. (shaking) - [Ken] You have a Pixel right? - I do have a Pixel, yes. - [Ken] It does do aptX. - Ahhhhh
Ken with the classic. It's a bunch of weird
stuff at Mystery Tech and then there's a pair of headphones. Which these, are you gonna steal these? - [Ken] No, they sent me one too. (laughing) - Wait, did they bribe you? Is the reason that these
are at Mystery Tech because Status hooked up you, they sent you a pair of headphones, like hey, sneak this into Mystery Tech? You getting that kickback, Ken? - [Ken] No? - That was the least convincing
'no' I have ever heard. Oh! So they're on-ears. Mmmm, they feel pretty decent. Um, they're lightweight. Maybe a little bit on the cheap side, but we'll see how they actually sound. So I am traditionally not a
huge fan of on-ear headphones. But... - [Ken] You can take off the hoodie. It's fine, it's fine. Okay, got it? Got it? - [Matt] You could put
those underneath it. - Oh look, I can't hear you. What great passive noise
cancellation these headphones have. I'm just going to wear these
for the rest of the video. The highs are actually really pronounced. Like most of the headphones
I feel like I listen to, especially on Mystery Tech, are a little bit on the bass-heavy side, but these actually are really clear. Especially for Bluetooth. All right, time for the
'Hotel California' test. Okay, so, they don't quite
have the same bass punch that I usually like to have in headphones. It's a little bit more
on the treble-y side, but it's not bad. It's certainly not bad. It's just a little bit
of a different style, specifically compared to those CB-1s that I've listened to so often. That being said though, for 100 bucks, I mean, yeah, they do feel a
little bit on the cheap side, but I like that they have USB-C, I like the fact that it
does support aptX HD. And honestly, these might
actually end up in my bag. Um, although the carrying
case is a little big big. But ah, yeah, not bad! 100 bucks? Okay. (muffled music) (Pokemon music) (crinkling) Oh, what?
Oh no. - [Ken] Put it on the
floor, put it on the floor. - You did not buy the Snorlax. Did you buy the Snorlax? Ken, did you buy the Snorlax? Is this the lifesi... (slamming) Ken, how much was the Snorlax? (plastic crinkling) - [Ken] It was being liquidated so. - [Matt] A STEAL at $150. - Oh actually that's not bad. I've seen this thing
for like 4, 500 bucks. - [Ken] I've been
pestering him to get this since I've started. (plastic crinkling) - Ah
This, this is adorable. (laughing) (groaning) All right, so anyway, thank you very much for watching this episode of Mystery Tech. Unfortunately, this item
is no longer available, but links to everything else that is will be in the description. As well as Ken's resume
for an excellent job of Mystery Tech this month. Why am I laying so seductively like this? - [Matt] Yikes Oh no. (beanbag shifting) - [Austin] I'm sorry Mom.