- Welcome to the $100 MacBook Project. My goal is simple. With $100 in my pocket I'm going to attempt
to purchase a MacBook, upgrade it and fix it
up to as much as I can and get it usable in 2023. Ever since Apple Silicon came out, there've been absolute floods
of older Intel MacBooks. That are being sold for
next to nothing on eBay. So I saw a terrific Luke Miani video where he was able to find a $24 MacBook. Now, while I'm not gonna
go quite that cheap. My hope is I can find a MacBook
that's maybe 40, 50 bucks. I'm gonna straight do what
Luke did in his video. I'm gonna go for buy it
now, lowest price first. So let's see what we can find. Well, number one is a pizza cutter. Am I cutting apple slices? Old Apple MacBook for repair or parts. Okay, so it's like 20, a little over $20. Oh my God. What did someone run over
this with a car or something? MacBook Air. Okay, so whoa, what are
you selling this thing for? Put that in the recycle bin. Look how swollen the
middle of this MacBook is. Uhuh, nope, nope, not doing that. Ooh! Lots of MacBook parts. I might need some of these. What do we get here? We get some screens  and some keyboards for some MacBook Airs. and a Pro. Huh. Oh, you know what? Potentially, what if I buy two MacBooks and Frankenstein them together
into one functioning MacBook? Ooh, okay, okay. So here's one that's actually
functional and booted. $40, but there's keyboard issue, there are few keys on the
keyboard that doesn't work. If the only issue with
this is I need to buy it and swap out the keyboard, I
can get a replacement keyboard. Or I could just buy another MacBook and just Frankenstein the parts together. Here is another 13 inch MacBook. This might be my move. Visually, it looks great. The screen is fully functional. I think I've got the MacBook that I want to start this project with. Let me put my order in,
try to get my hands on it and let's see exactly how much work I'm really gonna need to
do and how much budget. I'm gonna have to do it with. My friends, it is here. This is our $20 MacBook
plus 37.99 shipping and I'm very excited. So the listing that we purchased said that it is pretty much a
fully up and running MacBook. It's got hard drive, RAM everything we need except that it is booting
to a white screen. Now that doesn't sound good, but at $38 shipped, I'm feeling optimistic and I also just really wanna play with it. So I actually accidentally opened the box before I realized it was a MacBook but I have not actually opened it. Don't worry, I'm not, I'm not
a dirty cheater like that. Because we only have a
hundred dollar budget. I've had to be very careful with the things I purchase. However, I did preemptively go ahead and buy a MagSafe power adapter. This ran me, I think $13. So I definitely need that. So visually, the outside's fine. Some nicks and scuffs but
nothing out of the ordinary for a 10 year old laptop. Smells quite pleasant. Ooh, okay, so the, the hinge is not straight. So you see how on this side
it's like flat and flush. On this side look how
much the gap is there. The whole thing, like wiggles, like can you see how much the gap, like that should not be there. Like look on this side, there's nothing. So that makes me a little concerned. See what it looks like on the inside. Okay, this is fine. This is fine. That hinge has definitely
seen better days like it, if you listen to it. (popping sound) (grunts) What I'm gonna try to avoid with this is having to buy a second MacBook and Frankensteining the
good parts together. That would be in some ways the best move 'cause I could buy
another like $40 MacBook. But at that point I'm gonna
have no budget for upgrades. Again, I've already spent
$13 on the power supply. So this point I've only
got, I feel like 40 bucks, maybe even a little less than
$40 to work with right now. First test is to see if the battery will
take any kind of charge. If not I'm gonna be spending
some decent money on a battery. Oh okay, okay. So yes, yes, yes. So the battery's been turned
on, it is now charging. Okay. So at least we do have
a battery inside here which will hold some level of charge. We'll let the battery charge a little bit. Let me crack it open
and take a look to see if there's any obvious
signs of water damage or of disaster on the inside. Okay. Let's crack it open and see what we got. Ooh, okay. It's actually quite clean on the inside. Like, I mean, a little tiny bit of dust but nothing that's, that bad. So we've got a battery, which is of course it's an
official actual Apple battery. So it's not been replaced. It's certainly not gonna be good 'cause it's gonna be, you know,
10 years old at this point. But if it holds any kind of charge, I can probably work with it. So for the sake of completeness
I have removed the battery and I've removed the hard drive. I've reseat the RAM and
I've dusted everything out. So theoretically it should
boot without the battery. Oh wait, I hear something. It turned over. Wait, it turned off. Oh, the fan spinning, the fan spinning. Oh, oh, oh, okay, okay, we got progress. We actually have some signs of... (loud cheering) What! And it chimed too. It's a white screen, but it chimed. Okay. Not perfect 'cause we
still gotta figure out why it's not actually posting but at least we have signs of life. Resetting.
Oh, there we go. So we're resetting the PRAM. So we'll give that a first try. Oh, oh, oh, oh, we got
it, we got it, we got it. Okay, we got the flashing disc icon. Okay, so resetting the PRAM did do it. So now it's just looking
for an operating system. (magical sound) I was really worried there for a second. We've got, this is, this is
exactly what you want to see. This just means that the
MacBook should be functional if we can just get an operating system on. So now I'm gonna just try
putting the hard drive back in first just so I can
get any kind of life out of it. Hard drive's clicking away. Oh okay, interesting. So I hook, hook up the hard drive. Now instead of getting a no
disc error I'm getting a... It doesn't like the disc. So either there's no OS on the hard drive which would be strange or
maybe the hard drive has died. Next step, I'm going
to plug this hard drive into a newer MacBook to see if
it will function in any way. So the drive is trying to spin up but that doesn't sound good. Oh wait, no, no, it does, it does. Macintosh HD. Mac OS 13.3.3. Mac OS Extended Journaled 320 hard drive. So the hard drive does actually function. Apparently Christine with
a C and Khristine with a K. So Christine, I will delete
everything on your drive, don't worry. But our hard drive works. Right now I'm feeling pretty positive, like this is, this is
actually really good news. This thing, when it was not
booting at all, I was stressed. So let me make the installer first. - [Austin] So this is the
MacBook that I'm working on. So what I had to do to make the installer is I had to pull out another
old MacBook that was compatible with El Capitan and it took so long to actually
get the installer to work. Thankfully it is now copying
all of my El Capitan files over here. The copy of the installer app failed. - Of course it did. Why would it work? I didn't think that by trying to work with a hundred dollar budget, my biggest problems would just be... Getting a USB installer to work. - [Ken] What are you still doing here? - Hello my friends. I have made progress. So I did have to use a MacBook Air because apparently this is dying and keeps ejecting USBs
after a few minutes. But regardless, I now
have the USB installer and this is fully functional. So first of all, I do
know that this disk works. So in disk utility, even though the OS looks like it's broken, I actually have it up and running. But now I wanna find out
what the battery health is because it has actually now
started to take a charge which it was not going yesterday. So this battery does
have a capacity of 3933 compared to 5450 when it first came out. I don't know the math on that
but it's probably somewhere in the neighborhood of 75,
80% of the original capacity. So I think it's safe to say that this is now a fully
functional MacBook. A fresh copy of Mac OS and
it will be up and running. But even factoring in shipping even factoring in my actual charger, I still have about a $50
budget to upgrade this thing. So now I really just need to think about what do I actually want to
do to this to make it better. So I've never worked on one
of these motherboards before. So I know that on the flipside
of this is like my CPU. So like I can like, you know,
change the thermal paste and clean and tidy up. I got a bunch of like dirt
out of the heat sink already, but something's not letting it out. Ah! Okay. I've got some progress here and I can also see is I
think I still have a cable underneath here. I do. Okay. - [Austin] So ah, this is why I want to
pull the logic board out. That is about 13 years of dust that has just been
absolutely caked on here. You can get a little bit of
just compressed air here. So you know what I'm
looking at is what was, what's attached to is actually
the bottom of the keyboard. So if I wanted to, I could actually remove this
as well, but I don't need to. The keyboard as far as I
know is fully functioning. I should have checked keyboard. Well to be fair, the
listing didn't say anything about a broken keyboard and I
did type on it a little bit. I think it's fine. I'd be really grumpy if I
have to redo all of this. - [Austin] Okay, so now that I have removed the logic board. I'm going to take off the heat sink. I'm going to repaste both
our CPU and GPU here. Get some dust off the speaker. Just try to clean up as much as I can. And while I'm in here I also wanna see if I
can maybe fix the hinge but that'll be a problem for later. I'll go ahead and set
this off to the side. Let's clean up this logic board. Cue the slow motion dust blowing montage. (soft music) (soft music continues) - I pulled in a ringer. Luke is the editor on Denki. - It looks like this
has just like popped out but what we probably
should do is take it apart. Just take it out and then
we can push it back in and then clip the whole thing back. - Um.
- Yeah. (laughing) - [Ken] Are you okay? (laughing) - So I had all my screws
in very specific spots and now they've got a
little jumbled, that's fine. - [Alex] See, that's why
we use the magnetic pad. - Well I, the mag- - [Joanna] Yeah, I was
wondering why you didn't use it. (cross talking) It's right there. - I have things on my
magnetic pad and here. It's okay I can remember
big screw goes in big hole. Little screw, little screw, it's fine. Okay, so I have now undone the hinge. - [Ken] I'm surprised you have kids. (laughing) - I'm a big fan of
don't ask for directions or favors just ask for forgiveness
when you break the thing. - Who's gonna forgive you? - The commenters when I
have to buy another MacBook and pretend that I never did this one and stay in my $100 budget obviously. - There you go.
- Oh my goodness. Let's go boy. Freedom! - [Austin] What is wrong with this hinge? Because we actually have
not actually fixed anything. We've just gotten access to
find out why it's broken. - It looks like it literally
just got bent out of shape and it's been stuck that way forever. - It looks, yeah, it looks
like it's been bent, right? - Okay, let me crack, I wanna. - Oh! - Oh that! - Just like that. (crosstalk) - I fixed it.
- How did you just fix it? - Just like that. - Put it back. - Oh my god! That's it, it's fixed. (laughing) - [Luke] Let's go. - All right, we saved ourselves the money. - [Ken] Denki  saved him the money. - Subscribe to Denki for excellent advice, like how to fix MacBooks and how to make videos
that don't get views. - [Ken] What? - [Luke] Whoa whoa! Okay! - Now I gotta um... Remember where all my screws went and put everything back together. So now let me show you how I
have spent my remaining budget to upgrade my MacBook. So I was able to get this
240 gig WD Green for 14.99. So not only is this almost the same size 'cause it was a 320 gig, but importantly this is going to do a lot for my responsiveness. So this my friends, is a total of eight
gigabytes of DDR3 memory. Now if this MacBook was
very slightly newer, I could have put 16 in there. And technically I do think there's a way that you can kind of make 16 work but I didn't have the money for that. Eight gigs of RAM cost me 15.99. A $17 third party battery, not
a good idea for most systems, but again I'm working with
a hundred dollar budget. So if you tally up the
laptop, the shipping, the SSD, the RAM and the battery, you get a total of 99
dollars and 40 cents. So I said a hundred
dollar budget, didn't I? Here's the thing, I already
did all the hard work. Disassembling it, repasting
the CPU, fixing a hinge. These upgrades are the
kind of upgrades that if you bought this system, especially if you're able to
find one that was functional. I mean look, I'm done. I should put some screws in but like technically
this should now fire up and maybe work. Okay, here goes nothing. (suspenseful music) - We're eating good tonight. Especially 'cause we
didn't spend all our money on the MacBook. Okay, so we are into El Capitan. So let's actually make sure that everything is showing up. Look how snappy it is. Oh wait, what? Why does it show four gigs of RAM? Oh, okay, so I need to check that, that's not right. But you can see here that we've got ourselves a
240 gigs solid state drive. So this is the mid 2009 model with the 2.26 gigahertz Core 2 Duo. And it does have the Geforce 9400M. I can play Minecraft and... Runescape and should be able watch
HD videos actually. So the battery is showing up fine. So basically all I need to do
is just restart the computer and make sure that both of
my sticks of RAM are working. But assuming that I just
didn't insert it all the way or something. We've got a fully functional MacBook. - [Austin] Yeah baby eight gigs of RAM. Mmh! So I'm gonna give you a full tutorial but I'm using OpenCore Legacy Patcher. So what this allows me to do is to create a MacOS installer, which I did pick MacOS Monterey. And then you can build
and install OpenCore which basically patches it to
put a lot of like the drivers and the support for this
specific MacBook in. Theoretically, I can
now restart this system with my flash drive installed. It will load up a copy of MacOS Monterey which is two years old, but
it's quite quite recent. And then I think I need to run one thing after the fact and I will have a fully functional MacBook that actually can do stuff in 2023. - [Austin] So I'm gonna hold option and hit the power button. That should give me the USB
as a boot drive and it does. Okay, so we don't need that. I think I need to do EFI boot, yes. OpenCore Patcher, let's do that. All right, yes, so I want
to install MacOS monitoring. Yes, I do. - Hey yo, MacOS recovery, boom. So we are in, so I guess what I'll do is I will just nuke my
existing OS installation. Okay, goodbye El Capitan. (laughing) Hope this works or I'll have to start from scratch. (bouncing sound) - [Austin] Uh-oh, I
don't like a beach ball. That's not good. (laughing) Yahoo. I don't want on a beach ball
on the very first screen. Oh no Oh, oh, oh, oh, what? Yes, I agree, I agree, yeah, boy! Yep. Yep. Is it actually gonna work? - It's working! Yes! Okay my friends. So assuming it doesn't crash
and burn on me in 23 minutes I'll have a copy of MacOS Monterey on my hundred dollar MacBook. (grunting) Okay, I'm gonna be
patient, let this install and then we're gonna see
exactly what it's like to use a 2009 MacBook
that's been fully upgraded for less than a hundred dollars. And I'm also gonna gloat a lot. - So I've been using the
MacBook for a few days and I have some thoughts. First and foremost, this
is a 14 year old system so tempering your
expectations is important. That being said, though,
it is usable here in 2023. The keyboard is decent, the
track pad is phenomenal. The only thing I can really ding it for for everyday use is the actual screen. Now the quality of the
display is totally fine. It's the resolution that let's it down. 1280 by 800 is just not enough pixels for even like regular web browsing, especially considering that MacOS typically loses a little bit of the top and the bottom of you have your dock up. It's workable, but it
does feel quite cramped especially considering
this is a 13 inch laptop. At a hundred dollars for this
100 dollar MacBook challenge, I think it did pretty well. But if you were to spend say $200, you get a significantly
newer retina MacBook. Or if you spend like three or $400 you're getting into
MacBook Touch Bar territory. - [Austin] At the end of the day, I bought a laptop that
was pretty much destined to become e-waste and turned it into a
fully functional device that can be used in 2023. - [Austin] It's got years
of life ahead of it. Thanks to the newer version of MacOS and the upgrades I've done. Plus I now have a system
that has an optical drive and FireWire. It's really neat. - But if you enjoy, definitely be sure to
subscribe to my channel and let me know in the comments below what project should I do next?