Camphor helped save the elephants and 
let Hollywood make their films. We do   not hear much about it today but this fragrant 
substance used to be a critical ingredient in   Western industrial production. And almost all 
of it came from Taiwan, then a Japanese colony. The Taiwan camphor monopoly was immensely 
profitable for the Japanese government.   But its toll on the environment and 
the Formosan natives was devastating. And Japan’s grip on this 
critical industrial substance   alarmed the western powers and caused 
them to scramble for an alternative. It was not until the synthesis of a synthetic 
that the West broke the camphor tree monopoly.   In this video we will look back at 
one of Taiwan’s bygone industries. Camphor is a waxy, transparent 
solid with a strong smell.   The word is an old one and its etymology goes all 
the way back to the Austronesian word "kapur". It comes from the camphor tree, a 
certain evergreen tree with many species.   You chip off the wood and leaves, and 
then you steam it like a xiaolongbao. What can you use this thing for? At first, 
camphor's primary use was as a medicine   and insect repellent. There is a brand of 
stuff today called Salonpas that you put   on your skin when your muscles get sore. But 
beginning in the 1850s, camphor began to gain   prominence for its role in the production of 
celluloid, probably the first man-made plastic. Manufacturers used celluloid as an ivory 
replacement in items like billiard and ping pong   balls. Celluloid not only helped to save the lives 
of many a pachyderm but also the sport itself. The billiard industry needed such an ivory 
replacement so badly that they offered a $200,000   reward for its discovery - though it seems 
like it was not claimed by John Wesley Hyatt,   the man who economized the 
production of celluloid. Afterwards, celluloid found 
an even more valuable use:   Film and photography stock. Its ability 
to produce a photograph image whilst also   being flexible enough to put into a spool was 
a critical step towards making longer movies.   Because of it, the motion pictures industry 
as we know it today became technically viable.   As Hollywood grew in popularity, so did 
celluloid and the use of camphor to make it. Celluloid’s downside, of course, 
was its legendary flammability.   It basically self-combusts when exposed to 
temperatures over 150 degrees Celsius - a   problem because movie projectors and their 
big hot bulbs. Infamously, almost all of Fox   Corporation’s silent film repertoire burned up in 
a 1947 vault fire. Same with MGM with a 1965 fire. They used to use celluloid to make 
shirt collars, keeping them straight.   But because celluloid is so flammable, wearers 
had to be careful around cigars and lit flame.   Ergo, the phrase "don't get 
too hot under the collar". By the 1930s, camphor usage 
was 80% for celluloid and film;   10% for medicine; 6% for religious ceremonies; and 
the rest for various other things like gunpowder.   All of this thanks to a tree. Camphor 
was the rare earth mineral of its day. As I mentioned, the camphor tree is native 
to many locations. But large, old-age natural   groves of the tree were long extinguished or 
unsuitable for use. The only remaining location   with trees suitable for making industrial 
grade camphor was in Taiwan's wild northeast. Taiwanese aboriginals noticed the tree's 
medicinal properties, its unique smell,   and thus worshipped it. Chinese merchants 
arriving in Taiwan during the 15th century   also observed the tree's valuable properties 
and began exporting it to the mainland for sale. By the time the Qing emperors took 
possession of the island in the 1680s,   mass conflicts in the island's northeast 
border areas were already taking place. The Han Chinese settlers were pushing the 
Taiwanese aboriginals from their native lands   deeper into new and unsettled lands. They would 
build these large stoves to cook and process   the camphor trees into the final substance. It 
smelled pretty bad and were vulnerable to attack. The burgeoning camphor trade only exacerbated 
these clashes. Partly to calm those tensions (and   to get their cut as well), the Qing government 
declared the first camphor monopoly on Taiwan   in the early 1700s. They enforced it with blood. 
In 1720, records show that 200 violators were   convicted of defying the monopoly and 
had their heads cut off for punishment. In the 1850s, celluloid and its 
connection to camphor was discovered   and western merchants rushed to Taiwan to harvest 
the camphor forests. Briefly, the Americans had   the first step - receiving a concession from 
the Qing to handle the camphor export trade. They dredged out the Tainan 
port, raised a lighthouse,   and fought off a series of attacks by enraged 
aboriginals for harvesting their forests.   But 87 boats soon filled up with camphor 
wood and a rich American industry sprung up. America's first ambassador to Japan, Townshend 
Harris, urged the United States government to   acquire Taiwan Island from the Qing in order 
to secure the lucrative camphor supply.   The idea was never seriously considered 
due to the impending American Civil War,   but that would have been fun to imagine. In 1895, Japan acquired the island from 
the Qing Emperors and sought to remake   the colony into an agricultural 
and natural resource breadbasket. The government passed a new ordinance 
shuffling control of the camphor monopoly   into a new Bureau of Monopolies alongside 
the alcohol and tobacco monopolies.   I talked a bit about this move in my video 
about the Taiwanese north-south divide.   Prices for natural camphor began rising, 
doubling in the years after this reform. Of course, the main reason for this 
monopoly was to maximize revenue and   squeeze the market. Japan had incurred a great 
deal of war debt from the Russo-Japanese War   and had to pay it off. Taiwan, as a 
Japanese colony, needed to do its part. But there was another reason to regulate the 
harvest. Camphor trees take a long time to   grow to the harvesting stage - a minimum of 45 
years or so. The Taiwan government planted new   trees for each one cut down - 5.6 million new 
trees in 1909 alone - but the long growing time   threatened the industry's future without some 
form of government intervention and regulation. In 1899, the aboriginal conflicts went to a 
whole new level. Camphor production had passed   from random small firms to large multinational 
companies. The monopoly was a big government   business and the government needed to protect the 
company workers as they harvested the forests.   1,500 government funded paramilitary troops 
were stationed at the Japan-indigenous borders. The various neighboring tribes unified 
into a single coordinated fighting force   and stepped up their guerrilla 
attacks on the loggers.   In 1896, 62 people died in indigenous raids. Two 
years later, that number had risen to 557 dead   and 134 injured - with attacks 
taking place almost every day. The year 1900 saw a full scale aboriginal uprising 
in what is now the Daxi District in Taoyuan.   The Daxi area had the Dahan creek, 
which helped transport harvested trees.   The area was also heavily settled 
by the aboriginal Atayal people. The Atayal are a fierce people known for their 
skilled warriors and head-hunting traditions.   If a male fighter brought back a head from 
their forays, then they would get a facial   tattoo. Women got their facial tattoos for showing 
exemplary skills in weaving. They are certainly   known for more than this, but in the context of 
this story this is all I have time to provide. The Japanese gathered a literal army 
in Daxi to invade the Atayal lands   and "pacify" them. The two biggest 
Atayal groups forged an alliance to   repel this invasion and armed themselves 
with guns. The two clashed in August 1900. The Japanese invasion force of 400 people marched 
on a large village. But as they approached,   they found themselves attacked by Atayal 
warriors. Caught in a pincer movement,   they had to fall back. The next day they came 
with artillery and attempted to shell the tribe   into submission. But a fighting band of 200 
warriors ambushed them, forcing a retreat. The Daxi Atayal in the long 
run could not win the war,   but their high altitude guerrilla attacks 
continually forced the conventional Japanese   armies into retreat. It would take several 
more years of high-explosive shelling,   economic blockades, and transfer payments 
to pacify relations between the Japanese   and aboriginals. These conflicts are worthy of 
another video, but that is all we can do for now. Natural camphor's high monopoly 
prices incentivized the creation   of a synthetic or natural 
alternative. All over the world,   attempts were made to break the 
lucrative Japanese monopoly. At first, industrialists sought an 
alternate place to grow camphor trees.   Plantations were started in Sri Lanka, 
Indonesia, Egypt, Italy, Spain, and Australia.   Within the United States itself, attempts 
were made to grow camphor trees in Florida,   Texas, Louisiana, and California. 
All with little success. Taiwanese camphor trees were brought over to 
the then-colony of Mauritius but the trees   failed to yield in economic amounts. 10% of them 
failed to produce usable camphor. And the camphor   trees native to the area produced a form of 
camphor that was not suitable for industry. Suitable natural camphor could 
not be found outside of Taiwan,   so synthetics had to be formulated. One 
was finally worked out shortly before the   outbreak of World War I from a chemical 
precursor to turpentine called "pinene".   This could be produced from 
America's plentiful pine trees. However, this early chemical process was 
complicated and expensive. The process had   many steps, its byproducts cannot be recycled 
(making it environmentally unfriendly),   and further refining was required to 
separate the target camphor chemical.   It prevented the synthetic from 
fully taking over the market. Nevertheless, the Schering Company in 
Germany began ramping up the production   of synthetic camphor, making 
600 tons a year of the stuff.   This new entrant in the market broke the 
monopoly and the Japanese Monopoly Bureau   was forced to reduce prices from nosebleed 
levels. For the reasons I listed above though,   natural camphor kept a foothold in the market and 
prices stayed high: As high as $3.55 per pound. Then in 1930, the American company Du Pont along 
with researchers in the Soviet Union discovered   that turpentine can be directly converted into 
camphor through the use of a catalyst - an   introduced substance that transformed a chemical 
into another without itself being affected.   This catalyst was Fuller's 
Earth, a type of dry clay,   and later switched to titanium dioxide, 
which further improved the process yield. This revolutionized the process of synthesizing 
camphor and disrupted the natural camphor   industry. A plant in New Jersey on the Delaware 
River started up, producing 4.5 million pounds   of synthetic camphor. Prices 
crashed to $0.44 per pound in 1944   and the Taiwanese camphor tree industry collapsed. In the 1960s, the film industry 
switched to acetate film stock   and the last great usage of 
celluloid went away for good.   The billiard ball industry had switched 
to using Bakelite in the 1920s. Today celluloid is useful mostly for musical 
instruments like guitar picks. Camphor itself   is still useful as an insect repellent 
and for that I am thankful. But today   the chemical is nowhere as necessary 
to modern industry as it used to be. Reflecting now on this industry long after its 
rise and fall, it is kind of weird that some of   the West's great growth “tech” industries 
- celluloid and film - depended almost   entirely on the exploitation of a 
single type of tree on a tiny island. As they say in technology, the Stone Age 
did not end because they ran out of stones.   In the early 1930s, right on the 
eve of the synthetic revolution,   Japanese analysts calculated that Taiwan's 
camphor forests still had 75 years of supply   left for the market. As long as market demand 
held up as before, of course. Which it did not. For those technologists and industrialists who 
think that the good old days will never end,   the breaking of Formosa's camphor tree monopoly   stands as a lesson that some times 
things do change and can change forever. Pictures and video from the National Museum 
in Nanmen, once the largest camphor processing   factory in the world. Thanks to my two 
friends for coming out to visit it with me.