- This video is sponsored by Acronis. Today we are going to be
putting TEMU to the test. I'm gonna be buying nothing but gaming gear, games, game consoles, you name it from TEMU. We're gonna see is it
real or is it...fake? All right, let's just
look up Nintendo, right? Surely we're gonna see
nothing but legit stuff here. Super Mario Odyssey for Nintendo Switch, which is a $41 copy of the game. Apparently it's 68%
off. Normally it's $133! So this is one of those items that seems pretty legit, right? Like surely they're not gonna gimme a fake Super Mario Odyssey, right? I feel like I've seen this before. It's a like PS Vita knockoff that they just colored like a Switch. It apparently will play free games and it is for Christmas, Halloween, and a Thanksgiving Day gift. You know, I love to celebrate
the Thanksgiving season by giving my loved ones
in life a knockoff PS Vita that is skinned to look like a Switch. But for 28 bucks, what could go wrong? Oh wait, no, this is actually
cool. Hold up, hold up. So it's just a little plug
that you put in the back of an N64 and it gives you a 1080p out with a 3.5 mil audio jack. For 12 bucks, that's actually
legitimately kind of cool. So these are like weird knockoff JoyCons that are transparent,
which I'm always a big fan of transparency, but it comes with this like m sort of shape. So it's rotated around and
it comes with both a high and a short 3D joystick for 18 bucks. Dude, I feel like I can do a whole video just on Switch stuff. This is actually great. (laughs) Everyone ready to add RGB to your PS5? Well, with this ugly
USB powered extension, you can load it up inside your
PS5 and have beautiful RGB. Wow. Let's look up Razer. So, okay, there's a lot of
Razer stuff here. Is it real? So this is the Razer wired
ergonomic universal game mouse. Boy, that font does not
fill me with confidence. This is $17 mouse. Uh, sure. Oh, this is gonna be
bad. A Switch VR headset. Now there are a couple of
Switch games that do support VR. I'll give it a try. This is not going to be good. So with that, my friends, it is time to push the big orange checkout button and I'll see you on the other side. I'm very excited for today's video because we got some really
legitimately cool things. - [Ken] Not legitimately. - Really, who needs a first
party like Nintendo Seal of Quality? When I've got the TEMU
seal of quality? What? No. All right. Oh, well I see
a game right off the top. So what's different is, so
this is the Hong Kong version of Super Mario Odyssey in Chinese, which hopefully there's an
English language option. Over on this side, we've got
a Japanese model Switch Lite. Okay, so this seems totally legitimate. That's, I mean, that's
definitely a real Switch Lite. I mean, obviously you could
spend a little bit more money and get a US model Switch, which does come with a proper warranty. But if you compare that with a used Switch, I
mean, this seems fine. Thank you very much. Let's
though, see how the game is. All right, inside, we've got a...a game. Of course, there's only one real true test to see if this is a
legitimate Switch cartridge. - [Ken] Don't do
it. No, I'll, I'll, I'll - [Joanna] You mean put put it in the, the Switch. - It's real. That's very bitter. We'll see what we got. Yeah, it's just, this is just straight
up Super Mario Odyssey. I love Bowser in his pimp arc. Yeah, I mean, look, I
don't know what there is to say negative about this. I mean, it is certainly an
authentic, legitimate Switch. The game is real.
Everything works just fine. We can't say that we got scammed by TEMU. I mean, we got exactly what they promised at
relatively decent pricing. So, two thumbs up. Good
start. Yeah, you know what? Here Ken, let's do this old school. Why don't you just throw me items? Yeah, we'll spice it up a little bit. - (laughs) Look, it's Ditto. - Ditto, Ditto, Ditto, Ditto. - [Ken] You said like the good old days. - It is like the good old days. Snorlax. - [Alex] Stop blocking the road. - How much did I pay for these Pokemon accessories and accoutrement? - [Alex] The Snorlax costume is $21
and the Ditto plush is $9. - You know what? Good deal
across the board, I'm going to use Ditto to transform
back into Austin. Whoa, look it worked. Ha man! My little buddy knows
how to use Transform. To bad he didn't transform
into a better YouTuber. - [Ken] Or a million dollars. - Yeah, I'd take a million dollars. A huge thank you to the sponsor
of today's video, Acronis. Acronis Cyber Protect Home Office provides complete protection for
your data and digital life. It's the only personal solution With a unique integration of cybersecurity and backup technologies. Safeguard your sensitive data
against all modern threats like cutting edge cyber
attacks, accidental deletion, disc failure or device loss. Gone are the days where
you need several services to keep your data safe. Acronis saves you time, money, and it's super simple to manage everything from a single interface. Bad actors are getting
smarter and harder to stop. Acronis has your back with
award-winning backup software that neutralizes cyber threats
like ransomware attacks. And you've also got comprehensive
coverage protecting you against malware and even identity theft with features like 24 hour
support, up to $1 million in identity fraud protection, and real time monitoring and alerts, you can rest easy knowing that the thieves can't easily scam you. Just use the code to
AustinEvans2023 for a 40% discount, which can be used for
all home office products. And thank you again for Acronis for sponsoring today's video. PS5. Okay, so we've got ourselves, we've got ourselves LED
strip lights for PS5 for both disc and digital,
which looks just lovely. So after putting the little tiny bits of adhesive on, let's give it a try. So I'm gonna start out with this fan. Now, I think I need to just
route them with the cables this way. Actually, you know what?
That fits pretty well. Okay, before we actually test
this, let's get rid of this. A regular shell. What is
this? A Sony commercial? Oh, no, no. Oh, no, no, no. Let's take a look at these face plates. So this is the HonCam
Console Faceplate for PS5. If this looks a little
dbrand-y to you, it's because it's very dbrand-y. And if it looks like they
ripped the Legion logo, they also did that too. Well, let's do it, my friends. And we've got the shell? You know what? That's
actually kind of nice. And here's the other side, which is the exact same kind of thing. So honestly, like fairly
high quality plastic. I mean, 34 bucks is not
unreasonable, honestly. I mean, certainly cheaper than
any other options out there. And it is, it's nice. Like I thought this was
gonna be like super cheapy, but it's actually like
pretty high quality plastic. Nope, that's not going on there. Uh-oh. I wonder, is this too thick?
Is this causing a problem? Hey, just shove it really hard. Can we dim the lights
and see how this looks? So I'm gonna start cycling through. So I turn it green, for example. You can see what it's doing.
It looks cool from the top. It looks, yeah. Like yeah,
from the top. I agree. But boy that you know what? This is just not meant to be
used with a shell like this. - I would argue it's
also not meant to be used with a black shell. Like I would say throw
the white shell back on, or... whoa! Okay. That looks kind of cool. - [Ken] Wait, that chase actually
looks surprisingly nice. Like it is fluid animation. - [Austin] But you can see, look,
if you watch the chase, you can see it doesn't quite line up with the holes in this shell,
which I guess is fair enough. You can see it kind of
goes like up here. Okay. You know what? I had the perfect answer because we have another set of shells. Oh wow. That's a, well, thank you indeed. That is quite the shade of r-orange. Orange. Wow. So for context,
this is a good shade of red. This is not, I think they forgot to
turn the saturation up. Add a little extra red pigment in the dye 'cause this is, ugh. Now I will say that
this was also around $30 and it's not even close. Those other plates are so much better. But let's put it on, let's
maybe fire up these LEDs again and see if it looks any better. (laughter) So, remember that thing I was
telling you about the quality of these plates being a little subpar? Oh my gosh. Is that a super mini SN-01 Home Entertainment System? How much was this Cheapo McCheapo face? - [Alex] It was $25. - Too expensive. Too expensive. So this is meant to
look like the SNES mini, except it's just look at, look, look quality smells like, like nail polish remover. Let's fire up this
disappointment of a console. - Give it a chance.
- Wait, it's already on. - Maybe I spoke too soon. - Yeah, I think you did what the. Hey. Alright. It works. And it is
a generic NES clone machine. Whoa. Can't believe it. UFO race. Nah. I actually do wanna play
UFO race. That sounds fun. We're never gonna get to
Earth at this rate. This is the audio. Listen to that beautiful audio. - [Alex] What? It's just one lap. (laughter) - This is the, oh, this is
our Genesis cart, right? - [Ken] Yeah. - Wouldn't be buying fake stuff from TEMU without some sus ROMs and carts. So this is for the Genesis
and this is the super 480 In 1 Classic Collection Hot 4G bit which is probably enough for
every single Genesis game ever. You know what I'm kind of curious about? I'm gonna actually try
it. I'm gonna open it up and see what's inside this thing. - [Alex] Before
you should try it first. - Hmm? Try, try it. Yeah.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. I'll open it up in a
minute after I try it. Can you remind me how much this one was? - [Alex] This was a whopping $35. - This was $35? Yes. Okay, well, you know I got
nothing. Super 481, activate. Yeah. Keep in mind that this
poor image quality is purely because we're using RF because it's the only cable we've got. If we had a higher quality setup we would, but it does actually
seem like it's a thing. So we've got 480 games for the Genesis. What do I do? Wait, how'd you start? This is riveting! Yeah, if you really want a
bunch of ROMs for your Genesis, you could buy this fake
cartridge from TEMU, which I'm now going to open
up and see what's inside after I turn off the horrible static. Because it says it's got four gigabytes, which obviously would
be a tremendous amount for a Genesis cart,
which had probably, oh, so we've got a button
cell battery on the back and then we've got a bit of flash memory, an Alterra max little chip. So I guess I do kind of
understand why this is $30, because I mean, good luck
trying to get your hands on one of these, like trying to
manufacture a new one today. Like this is probably all like super, super old stock or whatever. I mean these chips probably
made 15, 20 years ago. Ah, TEMU, what would we do with you when we wanna find
elicit back market ROMs at kind of expensive pricing. - This isn't Back Market.
- Nope. If it was Back Market, they probably would not be selling me fake ROMs. (laughter) Hey. Oh okay. This is the one that I saw on
TEMU and didn't understand. This is the AR Game Console. This was not massively expensive, right? - [Alex] It was kind
of expensive. It's $53. - Oh, okay. The reason why
this really stands out to me is that when you go on TEMU and
you're looking for things, typically it falls into
one of two categories. Either accessories or
stuff for real consoles or fake versions of games
or you know, knockoffs or emulators or whatever
this is neither of those. This actually seems like,
at least on the surface, like an actual legitimate
real standalone device, which is really strange. So I'm curious to play
with it and see like, is this just based on something? Are we playing NES games in AR? Is this something that's
completely unique? Like, I'm just really curious. Okay, well we've already got some stuff. So HDMI, it's a good start. USB A to A cable. Very strange. This is an LED
ball. It has a USB port on it. Is it? What the hell am I looking at here? So confused. I'm so confused. Okay, so (laughs) it's got a face, of course it's got a face. Alright, we got a lot stuff going on here. So we've got a little projector
of some sort, I think here. Maybe that's the camera. I'm not sure. We have a USB port on the
top, which I'm gonna guess is for the LED. We have a little switch on the back. HDMI, another USB-A and a microSD card, which
is already installed, which is four gigabytes. So that's just, I'm guessing our game slash OS or something. It's telling me to plug
in my wireless dance map that just equipped with batteries. - (laughs)
- Huh? - [Alex] It doesn't, the listing
doesn't say anything about a mat. - [Ken] Maybe it
projects it on the ground. - Well, I guess there's
one way to find out. Ah, shouldn't have looked at that. Boy. That's an LED doing my
eyeballs. I can't see anymore. Oh, there we go. Dude, it is so bright. That is not something you should be looking at with your eyes. That hurt me. (upbeat stock music playing) - [Ken] Here at Overclock Media, we strive for excellence, but in order to achieve this
excellence, you'll watch through a 101 step process
on how we make our videos - Using stock footage. We have revolutionized the ability to use AI generation to create content. The people are not necessary
when you have the AI. (beep) So I've got motion sport
games, puzzle casual games, AR games, which apparently has
a camera and classic games. Let's start with classic games. A boy and his blob, I'm gonna
play a boy and his blob. That's the game I'm playing now. (theme music) - Oh,
- It's just an (laughter) - I think I know what this, okay. Oh yeah, that's my, is that my blob? So this just has NES games. Oh, I'm supposed to throw 'em jelly beans. What? I don't know how to play
"A boy and his blob." Okay, so it's got a bunch of NES games on it
because of course it does. Let's try AR games next. Cut the fruit. Grazy Ping pong. Happy
Rope Skipping, Header Boy. Let's do cut the fruit. So, oh my god, it's an actual camera! What is this thing man? This
is actually kind of cool. All right, I'm gonna move
it down a little bit. Ha ha. I'm a real person. I'm a fruit ninja. Ah, nope, nope. Let me do that dude,
this is actually legit. Who would've thought that
I could find something that's on TEMU? This is actually cool. Yeah, this thing is truly
one of the most bizarre items I've ever found on TEMU because it kind of works
and works pretty well. I mean the motion games
suck, but the AR stuff and like the fact that they've got a bunch of NES games randomly like,
this is actually kind of cool. And importantly it has
some great stock music so you can just vibe. Razer DeathAdder
Essential and Logitech G102. So these are mice that are maybe or maybe not legitimate,
authentic and real. How much was this? 'Cause these are both like way too cheap, right? - [Alex] Yeah. So the
Razer mouse is $17 and the Logitech mouse is $23. - Both of the real versions of these mice should be a
good chunk more expensive than that I would say. Even if they're some weird,
like gray market something. Let's just take a look
at 'em one at a time. This Razer, I mean like that looks like a dead giveaway
that that's a fake box. Like it's kind of similar, but I mean literally like the text almost goes over the edge. Okay, well yeah, that's
okay, that's not real. Razer master guide. Pretty sure that that
is not the Razer font. Look at the way it was typed.
It's like in the world's tiniest little font. No, there's no shot. I mean I think the real tell for both of these things is gonna be
when I actually plug them into the laptop to see if they're
recognized as generic mice or if they actually show up and work with Logitech or Razer software. It does say setting up Razer
Deathadder Essential. Okay. And oh, Razer stuff is
popping up. It's legit. Yep. Look, I'll be honest, if
Synapse believes it, it looks as legit as it is. It is suspiciously cheap. I don't know what more
you can say about it. Let's try the Logitech. It's got a little G on the bag. The, it's got that very thin cable, which looks like a real Logitech thing. This is a real mouse. I
am quite confident. G102. Oh yeah, the DPI selector's working. You know what, I think we
actually have two legitimate mice from TEMU. Why, hello there it is a
couple of weeks in the future, as you can see from the
evolution of the set. And I have a different haircut.
The main reason for this is that we were actually missing
a couple of items from TEMU, which ended up getting canceled. Now thankfully we actually
did get refunds for both of these automatically. It just took a few weeks. Beyond that though, let's take
a look at some of the last of our items including this. It's my JoyPad, not a JoyCon.
Nope, that's copyrighted. And it's not for my Nintendo Switch. No, no, that's for my NSW. For world of knockoff
JoyCons is quite extensive and oh, that's nice. That actually is. They need
to have a slide down thing so you're not a moron. So we actually have what seems to be a pretty nice
looking JoyCon for $19. These work wirelessly, they feel better than
the original Joycons. They have removable sticks, if I can figure out how
to put them back on. It has this nice little rotating grip. They charge via USB-C and via the Switch. I literally, and unless maybe
the vibration motor sucks, I actually don't have anything
bad to say about these. Oh, you know what? That
vibration's actually not bad. I mean, it might not be quite
as nice as the full HD rumble, but it doesn't feel terrible, certainly for a third party controller. And I will say that those
taller sticks make quite a big difference because with
the standard height sticks, it's fine. But this definitely feels
like I've got a little bit more range of motion. This is really legit for
$19 as my battery runs out. What a perfect segue to... ...our second set of JoyCons. Look, I couldn't help
myself. Okay, so 27 bucks. I have slightly higher
expectations, mostly just because these are so good. I'm gonna say something I may regret. I think these are the best
JoyCons I've ever used. Like obviously just kind
of first impression stuff. But these feel better than
JoyCons in pretty much every way, which means that these are gonna have some stiff competition. And also I think what we're learning here
is don't buy real JoyCons. So these are a little bit more similar to the standard size of JoyCons. In fact, they're actually
pretty much the same. So if I put that side by
side with an original JoyCon, of course it's gotta have the
turbo and the macro button, but largely looks the same I'll say. The party trick with
these though should be that if we connect it to our Switch one and two, Hey we got RGB! Eh, you know what? That actually looks kind of cool, right? I mean you can, if you
look closely, you can see that there's just like four LEDs there. So they bleed a little bit on each side. So it's not quite as diffused, but like honestly, for less than 30 bucks,
do you really care? 'Cause I don't, you know
what I'm missing here? There's no rumble on these JoyCons. A little bit of a ding I mean, again, I use my Switch Lite, which
doesn't also have any rumble, but that's probably the main downside here is that there's no rumble. Whereas the cheaper JoyCons do
actually have rumble as well. Nah, go go with these. Go with these. Honestly, this is legit. Before the Apple Vision Pro, before the Meta Quest 3,
there was the real GOAT when it comes to virtual reality. We're talking about the Nintendo Switch. Yes, my friends, the Nintendo
Switch does support VR. So let's take a look at the
headset, which I'm sure is gonna be as basic as it gets. Oh yeah, dude, you know
what this reminds me of? Of there is an era, you know, in like 2013, 2014, 2015, where everyone's using phone based VR. So things like Gear VR,
Google Cardboard, Daydream. Wow, this looks awful. Oh my god. So the problem with this is
that you're looking at a 1280 by 720p display, which is split. So you only get half of
those pixels per eye. And then the only tracking to speak of is really just the gyroscope. So like as I move it is
only vaguely connected. You know, actually, I will say though, that first impression,
actually adjusting these makes a fairly big difference. It's not good, but at
least it's kind of doable. Unless you are obsessed with trying all the VR
capabilities of Nintendo Switch, this is probably left in
2018 where we found it. So that my friends is everything
we've gotten from TEMU, we actually got some pretty
good stuff this time around and some not so good stuff. It's almost like buying
fake gaming gear on TEMU.com is not always a great idea. Who would've guessed? All we need to do is
subscribe to the channel and Ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling button and happiness will be
coming straight to you my baby birds, just keep on flying. Never stop. You just gotta
flap flap, flap away. Flap flap, flap away. So you reach the sky, realize
it's really cold up there. You wanna go back down to
the ground 'cause warmer. Oh, sorry, I - And of course,
huge thank you to Acronis for sponsoring today's video. Flap, flap, flap away.