- So we're here at our
wonderful sponsor Micro Center where I have the
reasonable gaming PC build. I'm starting out with an AMD Ryzen 5 5600X and a GTX 1660 from MSI. Unlike my esteemed colleague,
Ken Bolido who's going for something far more ridiculous and totally unnecessary. - I don't know about far, far ridiculous, but I have a Ryzen 7 5800X
and a coveted 3060 TI. - For this episode of
Broke vs Pro, Ken and I are going head to head
to see who can build a better invisible desk gaming PC. And to make it a little bit more fair, we're going to be judged
by our good buddy, Matt. So of course, being at our
wonderful sponsor, Micro Center, they've given me a wide variety
of parts to choose from. (laughs) They have Crucial
Ballistix MAX RAM, 16 gigs. It is a DDR4-5100. It is a $960 set of RAM right there. That is the fastest RAM I've
ever seen with my own eyes. Damn. - [Ken] So... - No, no, no. Don't do that. - [Ken] Why? - Don't do that. - [Ken] Why not? Why not? Why not? - No, no, no, no, no, no. - Can I just point out that this 4000 megahertz memory is $158 and the 5000 is almost 10 times the price. - Yeah, but it's a million times the performance. - [Austin] You're being a
pro, you're just being a pro. Micro Center's going to watch this video and realize what you
spent on your pro setup. You're gonna be banned from the store. You realize you're gonna be
banned from the store, Ken. They're going to have your
face on the front door and then walk in and go,
do not let this man in. So because I am taking advantage of the highly sophisticated
broke set at this time, my thought is to build
it around an Ikea desk. Now this desk is only 40 bucks, but because it is so
affordable and, importantly, it actually looks pretty
nice, I think that I can actually work with the
little shelf that's built in to build my system on that. And then, I have a secret weapon. What Ken and Matt don't
know, is that I am going to install a very
sophisticated series of mirrors to hide my entire setup. So it'll literally be
the invisible desk PC. All I need is literal smoke and mirrors. or may, maybe just mirrors. If there's smoke, that's
probably a bad thing. - Ooh, $32 for an 80 PLUS 430W? I could almost get away
with this actually. So for the SSD, I am going to be using a 500GB Crucial P5, which
would give me not only the performance, but
importantly, it's going to save me those dolla dolla bills. I can't believe I said
that with a straight face, but you can't tell because
I'm wearing a mask. (groans) That's how I feel inside right now. Just gonna walk away. - [Ken] Just gonna walk away? Josh cut that out. Cut that out. I didn't make that joke. Cut that out. (singing) Mouse. What mouse do I want? What mouse should I get? - Well, if you want light, we have the - That's Bluetooth? - We have the Atheris here. - Bluetooth would be helpful. I'm trying to make the invisible
setup, it can't have wires. - There you go. - [Ken] Wait, what what,
what is, what is that? - What's what? What's that? Huh? - [Ken] Is that a, is
that a Linus lanyard? - Uh, uh. - I take it back, I
don't like you anymore. - [Ken] (laughs) Are you okay? He really doesn't like Linus. First thing that I need to get for my setup is an air cooler. I didn't want to get an
AIO because of the way that my desk is designed. Not that, not that I, - What? What was that? - Nothing. So I'm gonna let you guys
in on a little secret I've actually been wanting
to build a PC and a desk, specifically, a school
desk, for the longest time. I found my desk on eBay
for about $50 to $60 and it's refurbished as well. So I didn't have to do any repainting. I didn't have to do any resurfacing. It just looks fantastic. And most importantly,
there's a lot of room to build a PC in there. The Evo V2 looks like it'll
fit my aesthetic pretty well. Yeah, I'll go with this. All right. So we have 650W SFX power
supplies here from PowerSpec. I think this is probably more
than enough for what I need. - That's not a cart, that's You gotta carry, you have
to carry everything you buy. New rule. - Thanks Matt. - Wait, wait. Wow. Favoritism. What the. What? What is that? - These look nice. I, I like these. - Well, what else do you want? - I mean, my build could use some. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. Go, go. It's on, it's on the pro's budget today. - I'm just saying this is a
little sus, as the kids say. It's a little sus. So the cool thing about Micro Center is that they also have a
crazy amount of monitors. - Ooh. - 4k for 250, 280 hertz, excuse me? This isn't a 1440p monitor
this is actually 4k. And this is also 32 inches. I don't need 4k though.
I'm not going to be gaming. - Hello audience. Ken is busy trying to choose a monitor, but I would like to take this opportunity while he wastes time, and tries to pick something
that's far too expensive, to tell you about our wonderful
sponsor Micro Center's excellent new deal. So all you need to do
is check out the link in the description and you
can get yourself a free pair of Bluetooth headphones. All you gotta do is sign
up for the email list. And then the next time you
go into a Micro Center store you can come and pick it up. Why not sign up? It's free stuff. Literally free stuff. Anyway, we'll get back
to Ken choosing monitor or whatever nonsense. Obviously you don't care about that. You care about free stuff.
Thanks Micro Center. - And last but not least,
I need my peripherals. All right. I think I'm going
to choose the Mambo wireless. Oh, I need a mouse pad. You know what, I'm going to grab two. Just in case one pad is too big for the whole entire
surface that I'm using, I also have a small
one just for the mouse. - Wow. Way to flex on me Ken. - That's what I'm here for, Austin. Ken "Flex" Bolido. - [Austin] That's not gonna catch on. You realize that's not
gonna catch on right? Look at this. - [Ken] Wouldn't it be a
shame if I just, you know tested the durability of your glass. - [Matt] Is it tempered? - [Ken] Look, I'm just
looking out for your safety. - Oh, I'll show you my temper all right. So that goes like this. [Ken] Oh my god, we're
going to be here a while. - I'm working with the tools that I was
provided with, Kenneth. Right now, you can see, this
is the entire size of my desk. I'm going small. Which means that my invisible
setup will be so small that your eyes won't be able to see it. - [Ken] Is it a mirror? - No. Are you trying to tell
me you're already done? Did you already pre-assemble your desk? - I'm here to learn, teach
me how to build Ikea. - You follow the directions, and then you do it all over again when you realize that you
put something on wrong. - [Ken] Thanks Mr.
Evans. I have a question. - [Austin] Yes. - Are you qualified to teach
us how to build Ikea furniture or do anything remotely worth learning? - I'm a licensed YouTube professional. I think I'll put my PC right here. - [Ken] And you're going to
put a mirror in here, right? Wait do you, do you even have the mirror? - I'm not gonna use a mirror. - [Ken] Oh, you're not. What, what are you going to use again? - Well, since you figured me out I'm going to come up
with something new now. - [Ken] Oh, I was right. I was right. - We knew he was gonna catch it. - I'm going to use aluminum foil. - [Ken] Oh that's so much worse. - [Matt] That's a mirror with extra steps. And less effective. - There's a lot of trash-talking going on in this side of the room. - [Matt] Probably not a good sign that the trash talking is
coming from the judge. (laughs) - [Ken] You make a good
point. You make a good point. And now it is my turn. So I'm here to build what I
think is the best invisible, "invisible" PC setup. Now, I'm going to take inspiration from something that I have always wanted. I don't know if you guys have seen the Acer Thronos, I think it's called? The Acer Thronos Air. Which is a whole entire setup built around, like, a chair with
a crazy monitor mount. Essentially you just sit in it and you are, you know, immersed in the whole PC gaming experience. So what I'm going to do,
is I'm going to put all of my PC components down here. Probably a big concern that
a lot of viewers, especially if you are PC inclined,
probably are wondering is how air flow is going to work? Because there is no throughput for air, I'm going to be drilling holes
on the other side of this. We'll use that as exhaust. We won't have any intake for air, but, the world is our intake. We'll make it work. It's not there, it's everywhere. Air is everywhere. Yeah? Yeah. - So Ken is currently across
the hall getting ready to build his setup. Now I'm just grabbing
all of my components, making sure I have everything together. And one of the things I realized
was that Ken left his 900 and. Shh, shh, here he comes, here he comes. Anyways, so, let's get ready. Oh, good morning. How's it going? - [Ken] What is going on? - You, you seem ready to build a PC. - Yeah. I don't know what he's up to. He's just kind of sneakily hiding things, or not hiding things, but he's
definitely hiding something. It's probably nothing that's going to blow any of our socks off? Let alone mine. I think his grand plan
is doing nothing at all. I wouldn't be surprised. I think it could just be all mind games. - Okay that was a close one. He almost busted us. As I was saying, before
Ken so rudely interrupted. Ken made a key tactical
error by leaving his RAM out. So what I'm going to do is because we're using
Crucial Ballistix memory, I'm going to just gently open up the seals and swap the DIMMs and see
if he notices that, instead of using his $900 overkill
monster, he's using mine. So if he's trying to overclock it, And he won't understand why
it's not actually getting to the speed. (laughs) Don't sell me out, okay? - [Matt] You're asking the judge? - Yeah. To not - To film you cheating. - I'm gonna try to gently lift the seal and put it back so that he
doesn't notice anything is wrong. Look at that. Look at that. He'll never suspect a thing. My regular normal people
memory is coming out. Gently remove his overkill memory. There we go, doop. And doop. My ruse was successful. Now it's time to go sneak this back over across the hall for Ken. And he'll be none the wiser. - All right. So I have an MSI B550i Gaming
Edge Max Wifi Motherboard. This is probably the easiest
PC build that I've done as far as actually just, you know putting the PC part of it together. The, that, will need a little work. Cross pattern for this. That's what Austin Evans taught me during his PC build tutorial for 2021 Screw everything in a cross pattern so that you apply equal
pressure to each sides. You don't stress any of the
components on your board. So again, this is the
Crucial Ballistix MAX. It's a 16 gig kit. Two 8gb DIMMs that go
up to 5,100 megahertz. This is probably the fastest
RAM that I'll be holding in my hands for quite a while. You know, what's funny is that this just feels like normal RAM. It doesn't feel any different, any more or less substantial or heavy. - You can't feel the speed? - Before I get too carried
away, I want to see if the stuff fits vertically
in the setup here. Ooh, just barely. Look at, Oh that looks really nice in there. Ooh. I have a little room
to push this back, too. There was probably a
good like six ish inches through the back there, so. - You're gonna rely on an extra
six inches to save the day. - You wouldn't know what
that's like, though. - No but I know what five inches is like. - Something I didn't need to know today. (laughs) - So this is my building test bench. Okay. That's a little smaller than I thought it was going to be. All right, just to make
sure that there's no static or anything. There we go. That's, that's where
I'm building my system. - [Matt] Can I just confirm with you, - Yup. - That your entire plan, - Yep. - is to just set all your
components on this mousepad, and call it a day? - No. I've got my normal pleb RAM. Unfortunately I'm not fancy
like Mr. Ken Bolido over here. You think you're actually going to be able to get more performance because you have your stupid overkill RAM? - [Ken] Well, it's more of a fail safe. Just in case I need to one up you. - Well, guess what? I have my
own fail safe to one up you. Now. - [Ken] Yeah? - I do need to make it from here to here. And this is slightly longer than that. So some bending may be
required, but that's fine. - [Ken] Some? - [Matt] It's not very invisible. - So with the game, with
everyone on Austin's train of knowing what I'm going to do, my new plan is going to be a radical one. I'm going to do the
opposite of the challenge. Invisible PC? How about a visible PC. How about the brightest,
biggest, most in your face middle finger of a PC you've ever seen. I'm going to build my PC so that you're forced to stare at it. It's going to be so beautiful. It's going to be so unabashedly
a gaming PC masterpiece. - [Ken] Mind if I pitch a suggestion here? Hold the camera. Hold the camera. - You're gonna, wow you're
really help me, aren't you? - [Ken] Yeah. Hold the camera. - All right. All right. - That's what I thought,
that's not gonna fit. That's, that's, that's. That's actually not, like,
the worst idea I've ever seen. Okay. So I'm going to
drill a bunch of holes within these hundred 120 mill circles. And that should give me,
hopefully, enough air flow going from the open side
through to this backside. - The other thing that
we're going to do first, is he has to drill this kind of twice. Not just because there's two
holes, but because it's not a great idea to just use a
giant bit to do this, you kind of want to do a small hole
first for each of these, and then do a big hole. - Yep. Shouldn't you drill
the holes for your fan first? And then do this in the middle? - So, we thought about that. Zero confidence that we can
get the screws to actually work to keep the fan in place
with the bits that we have. Yes. Well, double-sided
tape, but, it's better. - Yeah. It sounds like
something I would do. - Yeah. - Wow. That was way easier than I thought. That was cool, but you have
to do that a lot more times, but that was cool. Okay. - [Austin] Is it montage time, Ken? - It is montage time, because realistically we
cannot film all of this. - [Ken] What a great looking SSD. Wow. That looks so fast. - [Austin] I bet it's going to be so fast that you won't even see it coming. Just like the punchline of this joke. That was the punchline of the
joke in case you're curious. Okay. - [Matt] The best jokes are
the ones you have to explain. - You're a mom. I don't have to explain
that one now, do I? - Sorry, Grace. - So, the next hurdle is
going to be powering this, because regardless I want
to put the power supply on the bottom. Look at this. That'd be so easy to
cable manage and hide. This 3M tape is incredibly
sticky, which is important 'cause I want this to not fall. All right. Here goes nothing, gents. Firmly adhere it. Look at that. That is already falling off. Damn. Okay I'm just gonna let that
sit, for like, a minute. We're gonna appreciate
the fine craftsmanship of the artisans at MSI for building some very tough components
that are going to hold my graphics card up with
literally no support whatsoever and the cable is going to bow it out. Look at that. That's vaguely correct. (laughs) - [Ken] Wow. All right. Status update. So our drill was running out of power and we don't have any battery packs left. So I only installed one fan in there. But, if you come over to the other side, you can see how clean it is. Now. I don't know if that
will necessarily give us a lot of air flow, particularly
exhaust, but you know what, again, I'll say that this is
probably better than nothing. I'm just going to, I'm
just going to drop this in. So let's just try this. - [Austin] Damn son. - It's a little tight in there, but. - Did you put a, you put a button? You have an actual power
button on the side? - [Ken] I do have an actual power button. - What the hell? - [Ken] Yeah man. Look, I thought ahead. - This chair has more power
buttons than both of our builds. - [Ken] It does? (laughs) - I 100% use a screwdriver to start my build every single time. - Yeah. Except I realized
very quickly that that would not be an option for me, so. - That's smart. That's smart. All right. - In theory, if my power
button is wired up properly, I should just be able to,
and, (click) oh my goodness. The RGB, all my fans are not hooked up. I forgot to do that, but,
that's some RGB engine there. Look at that. - Wow. That's actually real airflow. - Is that real airflow? Oh yeah. That's real airflow. Yo. The crazy thing is that because the whole side of this is open. You just have a lot of sound. And the fans are kicking
at a hundred percent, so we'll have to tune
that a little bit, but, it's working. It's working. See, see, I told you. - This is good. This is good. I told you, I got this. I got this. - Welcome to the judging
day of broke versus pro, where our kind friend and
compatriot Matt is going to be judging exactly how much
better my system is than Ken's. As you can see, since the
last time we all spoke, I've done some expert cable
management, lots and lots of tape and zip ties
holding this all together. I also, as you'll notice, have installed some beautiful RGB
lighting that I've set to G to match my razor peripheral. Oh no, no, no. That's fine. Aw. - What's going on here? It seems like some of
the cable management has, this is just a wad of tape. So, I have a concern right off the bat. - Go ahead. - There doesn't seem to be a chair. - So, I thought that I
could just steal a chair from the office, however,
I've been informed that I cannot do that. So this is how I'm gonna be gaming. So, you know, you get a
little bit of that, like, kind of a stretch action. It's, it's really good for your posture. Plus, you know, I'm going
to stay light on my feet. You know, like what happens when Ken tries to sneak up on me? Baboom, boom, boom, boom,
boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. - Here's my other concern. You're sitting here gaming and, and there, you seem to be hitting. - No, no. What are you talking about? Matt. I am an, a pro broke
gamer. I have precision. I'm not going to just, my,
have my hands fly wildly all over the table. - I'm still concerned that you didn't, you didn't build anything. - What? What are you talking
about? I built the desk - You put the motherboard on a mousepad. - Okay, well the mouse pad,
to be fair, is slightly askew at the moment. - It's not attached. Now let me ask you, how
much was your entire setup? You don't remember, do
you? Fun fact, I do. - Yeah. Why are you asking me a question you know the answer for? I believe it was $1,300? - It was $1,439 dollars. - $1,400 bucks. For everything
everything, in 2021? - Everything except a chair. - All right. So it is judging day and this
is my school desk PC setup. Matt, what do you think? - I mean already, just right off the bat, without even you showing me anything, this looks so much better
than Austin's. (laughs) This is my first time seeing
the arm with the monitor. And one of my concerns
with it was that it, it was going to tip over. - The weight distribution
tends to lean, probably around here, realistically,
but there's enough happening under the chair with the PC components, where it's anchored enough. - So I gotta tell you too,
your cable management looks so much better than Austin's. I don't see any, just,
wads of tape hanging off the sides of it. - I don't have my headset plugged in yet because I wanted to keep
the cable management tidy. This is a wired headset. Mainly got it because it's
the Razer Kraken Kitty, you guys might've seen me
talk about this before, but - I might dock a couple
points for that one. How much did you spend on this? - I spent around $3,800. - I do have the actual
number, it's a little, You, you, you did, you were
close, but it was $3,682. - Oh. - So $100 off. Yeah. - Save $200. - There you go. - [Austin] What? - [Matt] You know, I know
this is supposed to be the invisible gaming PC, which, I would say this is fairly invisible. - [Austin] Ah, excuse me? - But then if we do want to change it to the super duper visible,
like Austin wants to - This still looks better as
a visible PC than Austin's. - Still visible. - I am really, really happy
with how this turned out. It could have been a lot worse, but again, I think I've been sitting up on a lot of this pent up
creativity that I've had on this one idea, and I'm
happy that I have the pro setup to just go to town on it. It's, it was really fun. - I got a lot to ponder here. I wanna see how these guy perform before I make some final
decisions on who won this. But I think it's, I think it's Ken. I, I think, I think it's
Ken, like I think so. - Matt. Matt. - Yeah? - Do you have a Ryzen 7? I also, I also have fast RAM. - You got fast RAM? I have faster RAM. Do, do you, do you want fast RAM? - I could use some fast RAM. - Okay. - So one of the main
tests that we have here, in addition to the simple test
of skill and aesthetic, is the price to performance. So we're going to be evaluating
that with 3DMark Time Spy for, it's a little bit of an overall test, but mostly on the graphics side. So right now, I have my
perfectly visible GPU. Guess how quiet it is? Quiet. Well, here's the thing. So, normally the system is very quiet, but I, in how confident I am in the setup, and how much I loved working on it, actually did some slight overclocking and I tuned my RAM. - Got a little question for you. - Mhm? - Tell me more about your RAM. Where are you at with your RAM right now? So, I would like to preface that I am not a memory overclock-er. That, that sounds like a lot of work. If you do memory overclocking, you guys are very good at what you do
and I admire your patience. I got my RAM to 4,000. - 4,000? Wow, actually
that's, wait, really? - Yeah. So base, - That's actually impressive. - there is also some slight
hardware compatibility with it, like, you need to
find a Ryzen motherboard that actually works with it. - What kind of RAM did you purchase? - So I purchased 5,100
megahertz speed RAM. - What's the name of your RAM? - It's Crucial Ballistix MAX. - Oh really? Hmm. It's interesting. Because, take a look at my system. What does that say right there? - Oh, that would make a lot of sense. Wait, wait but. (laughs) See, that would, that
would make a lot of sense, but, I got it to 4,000. So like, so like, I like
how impressed you were. But I overclocked the RAM. - How long did it take you to
hit what you should have just been able to click one button to get to? - I was here 'til midnight. (laughs) - But, but, - 4, 4,000? Joke, jokes on me, I'm running mine at 3,600,
you're 5,000 megahertz. I'm only running at 3,600
on a Ryzen five, so. - Austin now has spent,
you spent $950 on your RAM? - No, I didn't. - Yeah you did. It's on your receipt. - Hey. Can I, can I see the Micro
Center receipt for a second? - I think I, - Can I, can I see the
Micro Center receipt? This is the Micro Center receipt that has both of our quotes on here, so, who's to say what
was what, who had what? All I know is what's in my
computer, is in my computer. What's in his computer,
is in his computer. Enjoy your $950 RAM, that you couldn't even
get faster than mine. - Can we get a judge in here
to judicate this nonsense? We'd like the boxing ref
to come in, call the fight, and call, who is the winner here? Is it Austin or Ken? - In my weird math, which
I won't explain, just, - Sure. - Know that I, know that I did it. - We'll just take your word for it, what's my score now? - If we had gone with the original builds, with the original price
and what we got here. - Austin pre cheating score, got it. - It would have been 14
and a half versus 22.7. - I would have won. - However, because you are
a dirty cheating scoundrel, Austin Evans, your score
was 12.7 versus 19.3. - Yeah. - So, Ken, give me a high five. - Yeah, thank you. - Point goes to Ken. - I should have had this one in the bag. It's price to performance
as the broke setup. And somehow it got a thousand
dollars more expensive. - 'Cause you cheated. - And it's not even any better. - 'Cause you're bad at cheating. - Now the real winner here, is Matt, because he gets to take home
not only a Ryzen seven 5800X, but also - Wait. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. - 5,100 megahertz of RAM. - Whoa, whoa, whoa. - Yeah we, we, yeah,
settled that outside of. - You heard that. They're
literally cheating. The judge is shaking
hands with the contestant for his bribe, on camera. - It's not a bribe. - What? - It wasn't a bribe. - It was an agreed upon payment, for me to change the outcome
of the thing. (laughs) - You guys act like it's over. We haven't even done
the other two criteria. What about the aesthetics?
Who wins the aesthetic? - Him. Totally. - Me. - Oh. - (laughs) That wasn't even close. - We don't, we don't even have to, we don't even have to play
F1 and see Austin crash. - I don't even get to use my setup? I, I want to game, I want to beat you. That doesn't even matter now? - No. I mean, I feel like we
can preemptively just assume that he's going to beat you on that. - Thank you very much
for watching this episode of broke versus pro. Please check out our
wonderful sponsor Micro Center at the link in the description. - And remember ladies and
gentlemen, cheating is for losers. Bribery is for winners.