For years now, I've dreamed of water-cooling my gaming PC with my pool, and today, that dream BECOMES A REALITY! It's heavy! Oh no, he's drowning! Obviously, that's not how we're gonna do it though. This pool was designed from the ground up to act as a giant thermal mast and heat sink for the space inside. All we have to do is figure out how to get the heat from there into here. Oh, it stinks! Which is no mean feat. Like this segue to our sponsor. Whatever, I'm wet. Signal RGB. Skytech Gaming, Intel, and Signal RGB have come together to give away this Diablo 4-inspired gaming PC. The swirling potions inside the chest react to your health and mana in real time, and all you've got to do is click the link in the description to learn more and enter the giveaway today. The original plan was to take these tubes that run to the server room and, instead of running them to this car radiator, connect them to in-ground tubes that would run to the pool. Unfortunately, contractors being contractors, there were supposed to be four lines buried. Two for this, two for the solar panels, and we only ended up with two. So, that's only enough for the solar, and we need a new plan for the server room. One option we considered is to keep doing what we're doing, but better. Plumbing hot water from the server out to a radiator and pumping it back inside. The issue is that on a hot day, like today, that ends up working against the air conditioning in the house, heating the room. And I don't want something that I have to micromanage or set up a bunch of automations for. I want this to be set and forget. That's where the pool shed comes in. Remember when I used that high-tech gizmo to find PVC piping that was buried in my backyard? Well, that runs from the server room to right here. We have since capped these and pressure tested them, meaning they are ready to carry water. Meaning all we had to do was trench from the pool house to this box where we can connect to the lines that are running all throughout the bottom of the pool. Unlimited cooling capacity. Look at it all. Hey, don't splash my shoes. Oh, sorry. Only one small problem. I have to get the water from here over to where the pool loop comes out here and from my computers, which are over here, to these pipes way over in the corner here. Fortunately, I have a watertight plan for that. Or more like four of them and increasing jankiness. How much do you know about plumbing? I watched four videos yesterday on YouTube. Because you asked for this to be done, like professional plumbers, we have a bunch of PEX tubing here which we can use to run up around to the server. That should be pretty simple. Getting all of it adapted to each other might not be so simple. You know how you said that you wanted this to be done properly and I said we would have to buy specialized tools and all of the stuff and it would be expensive? Oh, God. Do you want to know how much all of the specialized tools and the bits cost? How much? $950. Thanks for your approval. What? You said $300 yesterday. I meant $300 for the crimper and the crimps. Did you really buy another pack of Teflon tape? No. That's from last time. The good news is we have way more than we need because it all comes in like 250 foot lengths. So we can do this many times. We should find out which one of these is uncapped. Uncapped? Yeah, one of them doesn't have a cap on it and it's filled with water and it looks really nasty. Three and four are labeled. Not so much one, two and five. You know what? How about this? I go on the other end and I just blow on them and you watch for the water to move. Wow, that was easy. Oh, and that water is draining now. Uh-oh. I sincerely hope that that water is not draining into this room. No, the answer is no. Okay. Everything is fine. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. There we go. Wow, they're all disgusting. Great. These caps worked so well. And wow, this is going to suck. Hey, oh. Not sure if that did anything. I guess that's whatever Linus just blew into. It stinks. That one I think I heard water splooshing. Oh, but I think I have a camera operator. Yeah, good job, Glen. So which one did you just blow into? What do you mean by just? I blew into two. First one, then another one. Yeah, it doesn't really matter. They both spurted really gross smelling water all over the place, so. Okay, cool. So first was eight and then it was one. Three, one. Perfect. Got it. Yep, we know we have fun here. We need to do something about that water. We purge it with that water. In fact, these are threaded. Do we have anything that goes into them? Do we have anything that goes into them? We're planning on using them for the whole video. I own more plumbing supplies than I would have ever cared to own. Perfect. Okay, we're going with number three. All right. You hooked up? Yep. You know what? Hold on. That's mains pressure. This particular hose bib is running like city pressure. Okay, it's pre the down pressure, whatever thing for household use. So it goes. Linus, when I turn this on, do you want to go outside? Let me know when it. How about when I turn this on, do you want to go outside? I've already smelled how bad it is. You can do that. Are you excited to dump a bunch of swampy water into your freshly cleaned pool? Oh no, it's not going to go in the pool. How hard are you expecting this to go? Whoa, hi. Is it working? Oh wow, that is very dirty. Yeah, it's really gross. Oh, it just hit me. Oh, that is dank. Is it still hurting? No, I'm still seeing bits of crap coming out of it. All right. Are you giving it full pressure? Oh yeah, it's full bore right now. We probably should have added a filter into this somewhere. That would have been smart. That'll be the final deployment. Maybe go ahead and cut and we'll just let it run for a few minutes and then. Yeah. What I'm currently trying to figure out is how we connect from those hoses to the server itself, or I guess the computer. My plan was to use this guy right here. And with the magic of JB Weld, it stays there forever. Oh, okay. Well that works. But that still doesn't answer the question of what we're running on this. Oh, that goes to the pecs. Oh, I see. And we just crimp it onto here? Alex, I noticed you brought flex tape. You're not really planning on using this, are you? We're not planning on using it. Okay, how many of these do you want? Two. Okay, I can do that. Oh God. I don't remember the last time I used an epoxy tube that wasn't completely crusted over. So I pushed a little harder than I needed to. This one's brand new. I'm going to try to move pretty fast here. Wow, she's setting already. Yep, that's it. That's all the time you get. Holy schnikes. And it's jelly. Well, that's good. As advertised. Do you happen to have a stepladder? Stepladder? I do. Are you sure you wouldn't rather have my biological ladder? What? Or as I call him, stepladdy. Do you want to climb on him? We now need to make a pecs tubing tutorial while doing it for the very first time. Step one, unwrap. Luke's dad be watching this like, oh. Luke informed me that he could help with this after I had already bought everything and the plan was completely concrete. How much did this cost? $130. Oh, sick. It comes with a go no-go gauge. So, if this one goes on, you're fine. If this one goes on, when you like rotate it a bit, it means that you have like oveled it. Cut it to length using the wonderful Castrator 9000. Wow, that does actually work really well for this. Yep. Everything else we've tried to use this thing for has been kind of a disaster. We insert this. There we go. Okay. Can we just go straight up suspended and then straight across? Okay. Okay. Well, conveniently we can use this piece. All right. This goes here, right? And then theoretically that is flipping on there. Now, we just got to add more. It occurs to me that our plan today is only to hook up the one system. So, we don't exactly have a payoff where we pull the whole rack or whatever, but what we can demonstrate is that with that giant thermal mass out there, we should be able to get better results for our CPU and our GPU temperatures. Of course, to prove that, I have to start a stress test while we're still running on the radiator that's just at the back of the rack here. So, I'm going to do that. Alex, do you want the CPU running too? Hit it all. Hit it all. Okay. You know what I just realized, Linus? Yes. We need a pump. Oh, shoot. Yeah. We talked about this before. The pump is supposed to go there and it's supposed to be from that. Yeah. That is the plan. We kind of forgot about that though. We just simply cut this tube here. This one's too long anyway, so now, hey, look, it's parallel. It goes over there to the pump, then back. I mean, I don't have a better idea. Cool. I swear, the final deployment of this will be like... Everything going to plan? Oh, yeah. This is beautiful. I'm quite certain that you did this correctly. The pump's in the right direction. Okay. I mean, after not having a pump at all, surely we wouldn't make a mistake like putting the pump facing the wrong way. Okay. There's our anti-vibration mat. And then how does it come back into the bucket? I'm going to run another PEX tube over to here and then just soft to it. Okay. Temporary. I'm sure the plumbers out there are cringing through their computer screens right now, but while we might be using JB Weld and we might have too many right angles in our setup, I think we're pretty close to having this functional at least. Which way does the coolant flow in each of these? This one goes out, up. This one right here is in. Okay. So this one right here goes like that. That way. The plumbing looks great. Hopefully, none of it leaks. Now, one thing that I've learned from going to plumbing supply stores is that you need to check the things that they give you. I was supposed to have four of these. I have one of these and three of these for reasons. It's going to be fine, but we need to go out to like the connections outside from the water cooling your house thing and steal a bunch of male to male things. Can't we steal from these guys right here? We can, but then we have water right above your server. No, no, no, no, we got this. Look, I found a bucket. Okay. I'm just going to go outside and do it. Okay. We'll see who gets a fitting first. Let's go. He took the vice grips. You can't do that. Oh, Jake, what are you doing, buddy? I almost fell over. It's fine. Are you kidding me? I'm trying to do something right now. What? I'm trying to do something right now. Yeah. Too bad. I'm filming a video. I'm filming a video too! I'm filming a video. Stop, please. God, you animals. Do you want to go let Alex know that I have these fittings now? If he could just give me the vice grips, these bad boys are dripping. There's foamy water all over the floor. Uh, it looks not too bad. I don't think there's anything. Oh wow. The whole side of the rack is wet. I think everything's still up and running though. Whoops. So sadly, this isn't quite what we need because these are hose fitting to NPT, which means that we cannot use the PEX tubing outside. We do not have the correct connections. Hopefully he's out of the way now. Now, do you know what we can use outside because this right here terminates in NPT right there. The tubing that we already have. The soft tubing? Yeah, the soft tubing. That is really not ideal. Nothing's ideal. I mean, there is something that's ideal. It just isn't that. Yeah. Let's do it. This side should be relatively simple. Just PVC glue, PVC pipe, doo, doo, doo, doo, boop, boop, boop. You're done. But? No, that's it. That's all you do. The other side. Well, our PVC glue is hardened. Medium bodied gray. That looks more like thick bodied gray. Is this going to work? Yeah. Okay. Maybe a little less enthusiasm. We're going to know really soon. Okay. Theoretically, that forms a chemical bond that is as strong as if it was just one piece. I don't know what anime has to do with any of this, but there you go. It actually does seem to be on here pretty good. I think we might've gotten away with one here. The connection on this side is going to be absolutely disgusting. So the plan was to simply use this fitting right here, which goes from this tube to this tube and you're set. That's all that you need, but I do not have any way to go from this tube to the soft tubing that we are now using, which means that I need to use this to this tube to this fitting to this thing. And then we're there. None of it will leak for sure. One thing I didn't think of until now is that this tube shouldn't be filled with crap, but it might be. We'll find out. Goodbye. It smells like glycol. That's good. It occurs to me that I have absolutely no idea which of these goes in and which of them comes out. But in theory, it shouldn't really matter since it's just a big loop down in the floor of the pool. So if we go in from this side of this side or this side of this side, it doesn't really make a difference. How's it going? Absolutely fantastic. Really? Yeah. Really? Yeah. Okay. See, now we're getting to the truth. Okay. Really? Yes. It's fantastic. You remember when I said that there were four plans? Yeah. This is the fourth. You've got the adapter to the adapter to the other adapter to the more different adapter to the hose. Yes. Can you crimp this one? Not really. No. Flex tape? That was my plan for that. You're freaking. Can I make a suggestion? Yeah. What if we just put some silicone in first? Yeah, that's probably a good idea. We are actually using flex tape. Yeah. I thought it was just a meme. It's both a meme and a product. And if it leaks here today, then they're a memeing bunch of liars, I guess. Well, I mean, you didn't really apply it very well. Well, but like, have you seen the commercials? They're just like, boop, and then it works. Holy crap. We're ready to test this mess. I looped around the one that goes to the system, so the idea is that we'll just fill the loop and then we can just put a bucket under it and pull that off, connect the system, and then go. Because that's the highest point of the loop. Okay. We ready? Sure. Pump going? I don't know. I can't tell. Give me water though. Yeah. Yeah. Water, water. Go, go, go. Pump's gone? Yeah. The pump's definitely going. Wait. We need to go outside. We need to know what it's doing. Alex, can you see that from there? Uh, yes. Okay. Then you're on the thing. Uh, is he gonna, is the pump on? I can't, I can't tell what's happening right now. This one seems to be empty though. And this one's full. The flex tape is somehow not leaking yet. That is truly remarkable. How much tubing is in there? I don't even remember. I think we have, I think we have footage of it from before. Hey, hey, hey, here it is, here it is. Oh, oh, it's a little grungy. Uh, it's a little grungy. It's actually, oh, that's a rock. There's a rock. There's a rock in it. There's a rock in my water cooling loop. We're going to need a filter in this. Whoa. Well, the flex tape isn't working. The way that it's leaking is super weird though. And this, uh, this fitting that I asked Alex about, he said is definitely right, is definitely not right. You know what though, none of this prevents us from finding out what the cooling results are like though. Let's head inside. I heard you have a fitting that's leaking. Do you know how many fittings I have that are leaking? All of them? Well, the both flex tapes are leaking and that hose thing that I asked you about is definitely leaking. That's not supposed to spin like that. Yeah, the only thing that I have that's leaking in here is also the connection to the soft tubing. So that seems to be a theme. Did you Teflon tape backwards? Is that why it's leaking? It could be. As janky as it looks, all that matters is the results. And right now in our pretest, we're looking at 73 degrees on our CPU, 53 on our GPU. I think we can beat that or at least match it without kicking heat out into this room. It's intolerable right now. This is one of the worst things we've done in a while. And like we very recently did the heater core and this is definitely worse. Oh, the heater core was fine. For those of you who are concerned about the pool equipment, by the way, this is all completely weatherproofed and designed to be out in the elements. So it's fine. Flex tape is great. Sure. But it's not for this. Why is this still spraying? I don't know. Are we sure that the pump's off? Yeah. Can I help with this? I got gloves. Yeah. I might need small hand man for this. Okay. You guys ever have this happen? Your boss is like, oh, you have half a day to plan a thing. And you're like, that's not enough time. It's going to go wrong. And then they're like, it's going wrong. Why didn't you think of it? That's like, well, yeah, we saw that coming. You did think of it. You just had to get the more expensive crimp. Although I would have been pretty upset about spending $500 on a PEX crimp that I'm never going to touch again. Do you want to see if we have more worm drives? Jake had a good suggestion, putting two worm drives on each one. We are shockingly close considering all the janky solutions that we've tried today. We are down to about one drop every 30 seconds on the high pressure side. And what we're going to try is another worm drive clamp running in the other orientation to see if we can close that off. What do you think is going to happen when buddy that set up all of your pool stuff and still needs to come back every day or two arrives tomorrow and sees this? What do you think he's going to think? I mean, hopefully he says, I have the right tool. Let me fix this. Yeah. That would be an ideal solution. Let's hope for that. Is it still leaking? No. Really? Damn. Oh, I thought the hose clamp wasn't going to fit though. All right. All right. All right. All right. Calm down. Wait, why isn't Fermark running anymore? Whatever. We got the before before. I believe it was 53 and 74 on the GPU and CPU. The idea here is we're just going to let this little bit of the top of the loop drain into here. Then we can connect our fittings to the system and we're ready to test it. That's a lot of water. Yeah. That's a lot more water than I was expecting. Yeah. Okay. It's fine. It's fine. Okay. We good? I was only a bit concerned. Oh, it's a good thing there aren't computers all over the place. Yeah. Is there a reason we're doing this or did it just start leaking again? Yeah. It just started doing it. Is this the right kind of tubing for those fittings? It might be. That would be very convenient because then we could just run these tubes up there. It is. It is correct. Okay. So this is out, which means this one, G one quarter, really not designed for these kinds of pressures, but hey, she'll try hard. I was talking to the AlphaCool CEO at Computex and was like, yeah, some of your fittings failed when we put them under the pressure of a pump and he was like, oh, those are rated for about seven APSI. What were you doing? I was like, uh, pump's rated for a hundred. He was like, yeah, they will fail. Okay. We need to turn this on. Oh yeah. The system has no pump and no rad. Okay. Hold on. Hold on. Did you just turn it on? Yep. Holy crap. I wasn't quite ready yet. No, no. You're good. You're good. You're good. You're good. You're good. Okay. Turn it on. Okay. Hold on. What's our temp set? Alex be ready to hit it. Okay. Hit it now. We're 95. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Okay. Let's take a second to settle in here. CPU die average though. It looks like we are about 15 degrees lower than we started. How's our GPU. Well, GPU is going to need some time. Actually no. Normally you would have to wait for the loop to equalize in order to take a reading. This loop is never going to change in temperature. So whatever we're getting now is what we're getting. I have the math on how long it will take for this loop to saturate the pool. So first of all, your pool is large enough that it will take 118 kilowatt hours to increase it by a single degree Celsius. So that is the entire battery of a model X. Also, if we assume no losses at all and we run this system at full wattage, it will take 9.89 days to increase it by a single degree. And there are losses. There are losses. Big losses. Heating a pool takes a ton of energy. Our GPU is at 38 running a firm arc load and she is rock solid. Holy crap. Alex, you said you thermal camera'd this. Not recently. Holy crap. Well wait, it can't be heated up that much from the computer. Wait, hold on. Maybe no, it's not. Yes it is. It is the hot side. I mean, it's only like a degree or two. Yeah. How much? That's four degrees. Really? That's quite a bit. That doesn't make sense. That makes no sense. That must be the side from the pool. Wait, no, that doesn't make any sense. How hot is your pool? What the hell is happening? It should be set to 30. Oh no, I don't know what it's set to. That is a hundred percent the hot side from this. That's the hot side from the server. We are moving heat out of here. That's a lot of heat. You're going to put a heat exchanger on this long-term, right? Nope. I talked to Alex out of the heat exchanger. We're going to put a filter on it. Yeah. Filter should be fine. So stupid. One thing we are going to do though, is we're going to create a manifold that mounts in the back of the rack with shutoffs so that we can stop individual systems, but keep the whole system, the main pump running for maintenance. And like quick disconnects on everything. Holy crap. It's working. You've done a lot of stupid things and had a lot of stupid ideas. This one is actually like pretty low on the stupid meter for me. I don't know. Getting a pool in the first place is pretty dumb. Yeah. Yeah. Well, but if you have one, there's actually public pools in Europe that are using this exact concept. I don't know if I came up with it first. Probably not, but real actual public infrastructure is built like this in the medium term until we have all these systems built water cooled and ready to be connected to the system. It would probably make more sense for me to just connect to that radiator back there and use the pool to cool the air cooled systems in the room, but it's working. And also we used all of the fittings that I was planning on using to connect that radiator outside. So we can't, you know, we really can do though is give you this message from our sponsor Floatplane. Hey, it's us. Have you ever wondered what it takes to make one of our videos well Floatplane is a great place for you to learn more about us from behind the scenes videos to team member highlights to travel vlogs and more. You can see exclusive content that you won't find anywhere else. Check out our most recent exclusives like this walkthrough of the stubby screwdrivers design or this wild hot sauce challenge, or dig through the archive of over a hundred exclusive videos that were recorded over the last couple of years. If any of this sounds good and you want to see more of us, you can check it out at LMG dot gg forward slash LTT Floatplane. I'll see you over there. Hope you guys enjoyed the chaos today. I promise you the final deployment will be very sleek, almost as sleek as this plug for our LTT store towels. Oh, Alex. No. No, no, no, no, no.