- Don't try this at home. Well, I don't think that's... That doesn't look correct. (laughs) So bad. So today we have a challenge. Our wonderful sponsor
Micro Center have given us the brand new AMD Radeon RX 6700 XT early, which means that we
have less than 24 hours to build a cool gaming PC, test it, and post this video. Should be easy, right? I want to look cool. - [Ken] That is a lot of 212s. (Austin laughs) Dude, they're actually 35 bucks. That's actually a really good deal. Did you do measurements? - Oh, absolutely not. Not even a little bit. - [Ken] How ambitious do you wanna get? - I mean with this video, it
needs to go live tomorrow. Oh, wait, no! Oh, I just realized. What if we get a power
supply with RGB? (laughs) Wait, does this have RGB? Wait, this doesn't have RGB, does it? - [Ken] No.
- Oh. - [Ken] You just assumed. - I did, I saw R- Look, I see ROG, I immediately assume RGB. I mean the Kratos actually,
looks to be pretty cool, right? It better look this cool, okay. Well, they've got the white
and the black Vengeance Pro. So, we are going with a white motherboard. So we could rock that white Vengeance Pro. Our goal today is simple.
(plastic rustling) We need to build an entire
gaming PC around this. The Red Devil PowerColor
Radeon RX 6700 XT. Now, this thing aims to be a competitor to something like an RTX 3070, which means they- While, yes, in theory, we should build a very simple
straightforward system. Instead, we're doing this. Inside this box is a system
that came out 20 years ago. You got to lift with your back. Don't lift with your knees, lift with your back. One, two, three. (foam rustling) So, this... is a computer that I actually used to own. In fact, I did a video on this
system, back in like 2010. We're going to be taking it apart and reusing this chassis. So that, we have a sleeper (foam rustling)
on the outside. Complete with our
Windows XP and Pentium 4. But on the inside, we're going to have an absolute
overkill gaming PC for 2021. Now, this system was purchased
off of eBay for parts. So even though, it's in pretty good shape, it is missing I think, a hard drive and some other components. So, don't worry. We're not ruining an ancient
piece of art. (laughs) Oh, look at this. We've got the original
specs of the system. Pentium 4 processor,
half a gigabyte of RAM and 80-gig hard drive. Whoa! Oh, wow! That's so clean. Oh no, we can't screw this up. This is actually really nice. Look how like clean everything is. This was supposed to be not working, but I can see it's just
missing a hard drive. Now, one of the cool things
about this chassis was if you actually press this bottom bit, it was a little spindle for like your CDs. For the aesthetic, I really want this to look as sort of authentic
on the outside as possible. I don't want anyone to realize that we have a modern gaming PC. The biggest problem is going to be, where are we going to put cables? If you look around
front, we've got our DVD, our CD and everything. I don't want to have to remove those, but we're not going to
have space for cables, if we keep the full drives in. - [Ken] You could probably
take these drives out and just keep the front plates. - I'm really regretting the lack of time we have to work on this. Okay, we just gotta start taking it apart. (upbeat music) All right. So, we've gotten pretty
much everything else, short of the optical drives and we've got a good
amount of space in here. So my first test, before we even move on, can I fit our mATX board inside? Look at that. Perfect. It's funny how so many things have evolved and changed and yet so many
things are the exact same. Okay, that is very good news. When was the time you saw a graphics card that didn't even need a heat sink? Wonder, do you think I could
Ethereum mine on this? One of the main problems is
going to be cable management. You cannot run cables in the back, right? I mean, this is it. We can't hide anything. Like, all of our cables are going to come from the power supply. They're gonna need to go
somewhere and be routed down. We're going to have to take out
those optical drives, right? 'Cause the idea here really is, from the outside, total sleeper. From the inside, as soon as you pop that side panel off, it's RGB town. Basically, what we really want. We just want this front piece to go on the front of the chassis, (plastic clinks) but then, we can keep all the rest of the space
for our cable management. - Yeah, the main (machine
whirring) problem is that, this is all still plastic in the front. So, I don't want to tear anything out. - [Austin] Meanwhile, I've got myself, the Ryzen 5 5600X installed, which is really nice to see 5th gen Ryzen starting to actually
be regularly in stock. We also have our 16 gigs
of Corsair Vengeance RGB, which looks so sick in the white. Underneath here, we have our two terabyte, 970 Samsung EVO drive. Okay, so progress has been made. First of all, the front of
the chassis looks the same. However, as you come around back, you'll see that the drives
are now completely missing. So, Ken did a great job of gluing that stuff back in place and tearing apart this
old CD and DVD drive. On my side, I've gotten the board all set. So now that do we have our X570 board, but we also have our memory. We have our SSD and I installed our 212 with a pair of the Corsair LL120s. A little bit overkill but we have to keep in mind. These two are the... not only the CPU fans but also the main case fans in the system. We do have that little 80 mil fan, which I do think will fit
in the back of the chassis. But like, yeah, there's
not going to be a lot of how should we put it, air flow!
(cheerful music) You know what Red Devil
cards are known for? Their performance. You know what they're not known for? Being small. Should've thought about
this before. (laughs loudly) Not even close. I think that we can take
these drive cages out. I actually think that might be okay. Oh, look at that. Am I tripping? Or are there no stand-offs on this. I don't think these are grounded though. Does it seem like a bad
idea to not use stand-offs? Remember when I got all excited (plastic rustling)
about finding RGB on the power supply. You know what I forgot to look for? It's modular. It looks really cool
from this side, right? Don't mind the fact that
we now have to find a way of cable managing all of
this (laughs) in the side. Wow, that's not even close. Don't try this at home. Always use all the screws (machine whirring)
on your power supply. Sometimes, when we're recording a video, I get this little like sneaking suspicion. There's like some goofy
music playing right now. And it's the beginning
of the fail montage. So, come around to the back of our system. You'll see that there's a little bit of a gap here on the bottom of the supply. That's known as extra cooling. This was all part of my plan. (laughs) So bad. (inhales) My main worry is, first of
all, will it look decent? 'Cause why did we go
through all this hassle if it looks like garbage? And second of all, are we going to overheat the system? There's not a lot of
airflow in this case, right? Even with a couple of extra
fans on the CPU cooler. I mean, there's just not
a lot of air flow here. We're gonna need all the help, we can get on this system. 'Cause you know something
else I'm realizing. There is no intake anywhere. How do I get enough air
flow for my entire system through this narrow
little series of slots? I went from being all confident but like, "Oh this is not so bad to like, there's no cooling in the system." I think we gotta go for it though. Okay, so as I've been
installing the motherboard, a new problem has arisen. So, if you take a look at our 212, which should fit in the
vast majority of cases and ya come down to ground level. I think these little caps are barely going to keep us from putting
the side panel on it. (gasps) It works, wait, does it fit? (PC parts clanking) How does that fit? Like it doesn't actually
fit super well, but- Oh! Whew! Man, this is gonna be, for an old chassis, absolutely packed with hardware. (laughs) That is so obnoxiously
full of PC hardware. - [Ken] It actually
looks really nice though. - It's almost like we planned it and I didn't buy this chassis off of eBay. And then, we YOLO'd it today with zero backup plan whatsoever. We clearly thought this one through. Now, comes the fun part. Of trying to make it not look
like, Wall-E vomited inside. - So, I'm trying to wire
the power button that came with the case originally to the board. And I am not doing
exactly the greatest job. I would probably even argue that this is somewhat
of a fire hazard maybe. (Austin laughs)
I don't- probably not. It should be okay. All right, so, Austin has plugged
in the power supply and... (metal softly clanking) - [Austin] Sad boys. Yeah, you know, it would be helpful if I actually flipped this power on. - [Ken] Okay, hold, on, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. (Austin laughing)
No, no, no, no, no. (switch clicking) - [Austin] Well, I don't think that's- That doesn't look correct. I think your cables might be
touching there. (chuckles) The thing is, we've
got like two hours left to get this thing with Windows installed and to game and benchmark. - [Ken] I know, but I'm stubborn and I want to get this okay. - [Austin] That's fine, I am too. Oh, hi! I didn't see you there. I was just browsing our fine
sponsor Micro Center's website when they just happened to have a great promo going on right now. Where you can get a free,
not only 32 gig micro SD card but also flash drive. Look how simple it is. Put your email address in. Show up in store. It's an in-store free coupon. I mean (laughs) it's hard
to beat a deal like free. Sorry, I was just distracted
by their very fine and wonderful offer from our
kind sponsors at Micro Center. I get distracted easily, it's fine. Behind me, you will see a 100% stock and unmodified Compaq
Presario from the year 2001. See, it's got Nvidia graphics. That's a lie. It's got a Intel Pentium 4 processor and Windows XP, also lies. But if you come around to this side, you'll see that there's a little bit of a secret lurking inside. Not only do you have a little bit of a red glow on the bottom, but especially, if you
come around to the back, it looks straight evil. Like that does not look good. It looks like it's on fire. Which I can assure you,
it is not on fire yet. Now, have Ken and I have been building it for seven straight hours today? Yes, yes, we have. Did we require a BIOS
update at the last second, even though, I've used a
5th gen Ryzen processor in this board before? Why, yes.
Yes, we did. Did we have to take (kettle
whistling) the whole thing apart and spend an hour troubleshooting? Uh-huh! Guess what? It all works. What we did, was we made
it as clean as possible, (machine whirring) while still delivering
that sweet 2001 aesthetic. So behold my friends. (PC parts click) Our handiwork. Now, yes, yes, yes. Everyone's screaming. "Oh, look at the cables!" "Oh, it's disgusting." But keep in mind, that a mere handful of hours ago, this was a mostly
functional Windows XP system and we have swapped out pretty
much every single component. Now, this is the very first time that we've actually been
able to try this card, as it comes out in less
than 12 hours from now. So, while yes, you can go watch your JayzTwoCents or your Linus Tech Tips for
all the hardcore benchmarking that's probably already been live. The main thing we're going to do today, is to see how well it works inside an incredibly thermally limited chassis. But if you come close, what
you'll be able to tell, is that even though, there's
next to no air flow inside of this chassis. It's actually not that loud. So yes, the graphics card isn't
really doing anything yet. So, (laughs) as soon as we
actually started stressing it. But like, I'm actually
pretty happy with this. And importantly, the power button works. With the original old boy. It was good, but there are
certainly some telltale signs that it wasn't quite legit. But not only was this an iconic PC, I mean, they sold so many of these. But on top of that, we've got all the original
stickers in such good shape. But on the inside, I mean,
this is a legitimate gaming PC. So first off, we have a quick
3DMark Time Spy benchmark. While you should certainly
not build a system in a chassis like this with
very, very little cooling, these parts are actually
really energy efficient. You look at that Ryzen 5 5600X, that is a fairly low wattage CPU with still a lot of performance. Which is part of the reason why we're actually able to run this. And I've got nothing as an intake, besides this little grill on the bottom, and my power supply which I can crank up to max fan. And that is my exhaust. So- And the result is ten thousand,
nine hundred and eighteen. We're certainly down a
little bit on the 370, but considering that we're using a Ryzen 5 and not like a higher-end processor. We're certainly losing some
of that on the CPU score. All right, let's see
how it actually performs in a real game of Black Ops. So we do have the ability to run this game with Ray Tracing enabled. Now, just like all of the other AMD cards of this generation of the 6000 series. The ray tracing performance isn't amazing. The nice thing about this card, it does have the full 12 gigs of VRAM. Yeah, so with Ray Tracing enabled. This game looks great but we're diving down to about 60 FPS and that's at 1080P. I mean, not to say that 60
FPS is bad, but I guarantee if we turn off Ray Tracing,
we will hop up quite a bit. I got to say, though, you know, this is actually a good
benchmark for the card. 'Cause look at that, we're seeing it over 9
gigabytes of VRAM used. I am really happy with
how this build came out but of course, if you enjoyed, make sure to subscribe to the channel and ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling bell. Check out our fine sponsor, Micro Center, at the link in the description. And if you've built a gaming PC recently, you can submit your
build on the Micro Center Build Showcase with #MicroCenterMadness, to be entered to win one of
two Micro Center prize packs. The submissions will
run through March 26th and the following week a
bracketed community vote will begin, narrowing it down
to the grand prize winner. Until the next time, I get an idea to build (PC part clicking)
a Compaq Presario from 2001. We'll see you then.