- I'd like to welcome a very
special guest for this segment of Mystery Tech, the man, the myth, the bored legend, King, would you like to come
onto the set, please? - Hey guys. - Oh, you said the thing,
you said the thing. - I stole that intro from him. I finally admitted now I stole from him. - If you're not familiar,
King has a terrific channel where he gently loves technology. - Basically I treat all
electronics with respect and act like they're the most
rarest thing on earth so. - Great, well, I've got
a rare vintage piece of technology for you to gently love on. This is just a little gift. Welcome to Mystery Tech, my friend. Would you like to open
it up and experience? - I wonder what it could be? - Oh wait, does it say on the side? - Wow, a red Dino? - No, no, no, no Not just a dinosaur. Could you read what it's called? - The Charizard Dinosaur? That's a lawsuit. - It doesn't look like
Charizard in any way. They just called it
the Charizard Dinosaur. I thought that was hilarious. As you can see, I left
the receipt in here. You can read this. $42 and 60 cents. 'Cause I knew I was gonna
forget how much I paid. - Overpriced. - Apparently they overcharged you. 'Cause the price tag got $38. - It's probably tax. - On Mystery Tech, we have a mascot and his
name is Robo T Raptor. Would you like to have a cage match with Robo Raptor versus Charizard? Would you like to experience the real Mystery Tech lifestyle? Oh, look at that. See, everyone loves Robo Raptor. - We can't wash him now. - See, he's all excited. - He's excited to see you. Alright, here we go. A very sharp knife. I know that you're. - I don't need that. - All right, you know what? Live your best life, man. - Would you like me to show you how to actually unbox something? - Please do. - Let's go. - A master at work. - Man, we're out here with Austin taking an
hour to unbox something. King's out here. - And I didn't even cut anything. - Is there, oh wait, wait. There's wings. - I think you're missing
a couple pieces there. - So tiny compared to Robo Raptor. - He's RGB. - [Both] Fight, fight,
fight, fight, fight, fight fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight. - I like this. Just the same sound effect
played over and over again. - Oh, get him. Get him. - Hit him. - Get him. [Both] Go, go, go, go,
go get him, get him. - Get him, get him. (everyone cheering) Let's go. - Whooo. I'm just curious. What do you do when a piece of tech is thoroughly disappointing? What should Robo Raptor do
to the the vanquished enemy? - Hmm. - Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I have better idea. Carefully pick up this cube. - It's actually, 3, 2, 1. Get the slow mo ready. (everyone cheering) - To, do, do, do, do. Nope, you can take that back. Today I'm taking over Mystery Tech. With my own selection of mysterious items. You'll never see it coming, Bidoof to you my friends,
look, he's even got a tail. Oh my God. Oh, they've skinned him. - No. - [Matt] What they've done to my boy. - I got a Charizard theme deck. You might make fun of
me, but I'm not done. Oh no, I got a lot more. - Mom, can you pick me up? I'm scared. - Okay. So if you've subscribed
to the wonderful channel This Is, we did a video
buying tech at Target and today I found the most
impressive Target item yet. And to make sure you
know it's from Target, I left it in the bag. Target make film cameras. This is a legitimate 35
millimeter camera that I got from Target with - [Matt] Kodak! - Kodak film. Now it's got a 28 mil F8 focus free lens which is not really good. And it also cost me, I think
like 35 bucks, I think. I'm so happy. Hey, you're opening me. Yay. - I'm gonna throw you. - And we've got our little purple camera. Lilac, some might say, wow, that is the lightest
feel how light that is. - Yeah - I pretty sure that's lighter than like an actual disposable camera. - There's sprockets right here. - Actual good use of the word sprocket. Okay, so how do we know how many photos we've got now that you wound the film? - You kind of don't. Some cameras would actually count for you. But like this one just. - So here's the deal, we're
gonna take some more photos, we're going to develop these
and then we'll be right back after a short time when I go to Walgreens or something
and get these developed. And then we'll see what they look like. Hey, oh is our film back? It took a couple months for CVS. - [Matt] Oh, it did
take a couple months. We put 'em on your desk
and you just lost them. - Incorrect. That was the receipt for the pickup. The store didn't do it in stores because I guess they say
that film is for losers, digital is the future. First photo is, oh wow. That's a photo of me and a Bidoof hat. We've got Ken looking like he's straight outta
1982 running the camera. - [Austin] That's.
- Oh, whoa. - [Austin] Exciting. Oh boy. Oh boy. Wow, that's a photo right there. - That one was supposed
to go to someone else. - I will say though,
that's actually not bad. The dynamic range though
on this is quite awful. Like, I mean you could
basically see the flash and everything else, even though this is a fairly well studio, it like the background just goes black. Matt, what are you doing? - Sending this to people. Jesus Christ. That was perfect throw - This is the mobile device mount, a wheel great idea. I wheely hate that one. This is not a real product. We did an item that this on
Mystery Tech once before. This is one of the fake boxes, prank you. Yep, it's the prank box. I knew it. Instead we've got the nut button, which unfortunately doesn't
nut very well anymore. - [Button] Nut. - [Ken] We bought a new one. - The nut has been resolved. We have renutified. We have reloaded. But there is one more item in this box which is the Nut Flowy. Oh my God. It's a lot of nuts. - [Button] Nut. - This is too many nuts. - [Button] Nut. - Stop with the nuts. - [Button] Nut. - Okay, you know what? I'm gonna find a new word
that's not the N-U-T word. How about the legume? Legume. ♪ Wrong, wrong, wrong ♪ - Okay, so look at this
wide variety of legumes. A type of, - [Button] Nut. - No, let's crack open our legumes and we're just gonna just. - [Ken] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. - Open wide, here comes the nut. - Stop trying to nut me. (everyone cheers) - We got it. - You think a fat guy I'm not gonna be able to catch food in his mouth? I've been doing that since
before you were born son. - [Austin] This is the
Fullware Nuts Flowie. Convenient in the hygienic
way of enjoying your nuts. Children under the age of six
require parental supervision, to use the Nuts Flowie. My mother watches this show. She'll be very upset. - [Ken] There we go. Can we get a slow motion on that one? ♪ Tell me that it's mine baby ♪ ♪ Tell me that it's red ♪ ♪ Hit it to the Maxwell ♪ ♪ Tell me how it's ♪ - Oh - I don't know how I feel about
Austin nutting in my mouth. - Is that what I think it is? Is that what I think it is? I know a little bit about this item because I am a huge fan of Sony earbuds. We've done a segment on the 1000XM4, which are some of the best in your headphones period, in my opinion. And we've also talked about
these, the LinkBuds S, which have no lie lived
in my pocket for like I think a year and a half now. So Sony were very
kind in sending this out not a sponsored segment. They just sent this out for review. These headphones, MSRP for $299. That is a lot of money for earbuds. Ohhhhhhhh. So, for comparison, this is what
the Mark 4 earbud looks like and this is the Mark 5. As you can see, these are
significantly smaller. It might not be super obvious on camera, but I can just tell you
that that's a lot closer to something like the LinkBuds. Okay, they are a little
bit bigger than LinkBuds. I think this is okay. Okay, so we are now connected
to the 1000XM5's. Lemme try the noise canceling. All right, can someone talk? - Yeah, yeah, yeah. Test, test, test, test, one, two. Lewis Fraudmenton will not win the championship ever again. Okay. - Formula 1 sucks. I can hear you, but it definitely sounds like I've got like heavy duty earplugs in. Especially like that
sort of like the bass low frequencies. Like, you know, like
the sort of the general like Jesus Christ, you
wait, wait, do it again. (machine whirring) It's actually very quiet. I mean, I feel the wind. Now comes the real test. How do these sound? - [Ken] He's taking a walk. - [Kinsey] He's like,
I'm the main character. My little AMV. - Lemme try a little bit EQ. I cannot hear a word you're saying. - Dope. - Obviously I'm listening
to it a little bit loud. I hear absolutely nothing right now. - [Ken] Wow, I wish
that was for the both of us. - I definitely dunno what you're saying. - Where'd you buy the matches that you used to set your house on fire? - Oh, you know what? Even with the ambient sound on I, okay. I can hardly hear anything. The passive isolation of these
is actually pretty serious. What do you? - [Ken] Don't, don't worry. - The audio quality, I
would say is very good above something like AirPods Pro. Certainly above the, I would
say it's a little bit better than Mark 4's in the
same kind of ballpark, but certainly better than
something like the LinkBuds. So I wanna spend some more
time with these really kind of actually kind of
experience them in everyday use. But my first impressions really
are that they sound good. The ANC is wild and they are way, way more comfortable than the Mark 4's. Honda keyboard? No, this is not an actual Honda keyboard. Honda designed for office and home use. Enjoy wireless technology, 10 meter wireless working range. So this is a Korean keyboard. - Wait, hold on. - Yes. - Oh, okay. No, you are right. - Speaking of Korea. - Go ahead. What is that? Oh good lord. Are you trying to tell me that I'm about to plug a Honda keyboard and mouse into a Hyundai Mini PC? So I can see this from Micro Center 'cause
it has $149 sticker on it with Windows 10 Professional. I'm pretty sure buying a license for Windows 10 Professional
is more than  $150. So, okay. There you go. Inside we have nothing. So that's just the 2.5 inch drive. Yes, this is really not meant to be a user upgradeable that much,
but again, who cares? This is meant to run signs and
my super cool new wallpaper. I don't understand why Honda
licensed this keyboard. I don't understand it at all. Oh wow. That's awful. What the hell? - [Ken] Wait, wait. That's Championship White. Well first of all, it's
got a protector on it. - [Speaker] Oh, yuck. - Also, can I just draw your attention to the mouse. Now I'm not, might not be a big hand king over here, but this a little small. It's a little little. The little guy. Okay, let's start out with the keyboard. 56 words per minute. This keyboard is not good. I'll try without this like silicon cover. Oh, oh, it's so much better without that. Oh. There we go. I went up to 72. So this is an Pwnage Ultra Custom, a fairly standard mouse. It's like you, guy, she tells you not to worry about. Ohhhh. So this was 30 bucks, $33. What you've got with this
system is the absolute bare bones possible that will run. In fact, the SSD shows up as just an SD, which means it's probably
either an SD card or showing up as like eMMC flash. Like this thing is ridiculously low end. But if I'm sitting there and playing some video
or something, it works. I'll be honest, more
of a Toyota guy myself. But I don't think Toyota
make gaming gear, do they? Woohoo. I'm flexible, boy - [Matt] If you touch one of those
lights with your feet, I'm gonna touch your face to the ground. - Oh my God. (alarm sounding off) - Dive, dive, dive. - Help me. So normally these guys
choose Mystery Tech, but the other day I
received a message asking if I wanted to check something out that I could not say no to. The reveal is an Xbox Series X or is it? - Oh, this better not. Oh, I know what it is now. - [Ken] I (beep) hate you. I hate you so. I hate you so much. - This is the limited edition, 1 of 75 Porsche Xbox collab. The Xbox crew were incredibly
kind to send this out. And I am going to have it framed on my wall with a cable
out the back you wall. - When's the last time you played an Xbox - Last night? - No, you. - Here's the thing. I wanted this thing so bad. I'm the one who's into the Xbox!
- I play Xbox too! (beep) - So inside it actually looks
like a standard Series X but from what I've seen there's like a number of different types. So I actually don't know
exactly what this one's going to look like, but
I am massively excited. Okay. - 3, 2, 1. Oh, it's sealed. Oh, wait, wait, wait. There's extra stuff in here. There's extra stuff in here. Behold the limited edition, 75th anniversary Xbox Series X. Oh, look at this. (everyone laughing) So it's got the limited edition
75 Porsche on the front. It's got the full like seventies,
eighties graphics on it. It also has the badge on
the back and on top of that as if all of that wasn't
enough, I think what they did was they made a white Xbox Series X. 'Cause you can still see that
it's got like the black fan and the green sort of
like shroud on the inside. And then they obviously painted
the whole thing like this. But there's even more. Inside here we have, here's the thing, can we just get a real time shot of Matt's face as he sees this? We have. - Torture - The controller. Matt, I'm gonna do a thing. That I'm gonna really deeply regret - Oh, oh. - Do the funniest thing ever to come on. - Oh, you so.
- Sike! (everyone cheering) - Oh no. Okay, subscribe to Mystery Tech. (everyone laughing)