Founded nearly a hundred years ago, Texas 
Instruments has undergone many transformations. Over the years they had smoothly 
evolved from oil exploration company   to military electronics supplier to 
cutting-edge semiconductor maker. In the 1970s and 1980s, they sought to 
make their most ambitious transformation   yet - into a consumer electronics 
company. And a computer-maker. It was a disaster. In this video, 
we are going to take a look at   TI’s ill-fated push into consumer 
electronics, and the home computer. ## Beginnings Texas Instruments as we know it today emerged out 
of a small oil and gas exploration service called Geophysical Service Inc or GSI. GSI was founded in 1930 by John Clarence Karcher   and his good friend Eugene McDermott 
to commercialize a new technology that   Karcher invented for discovering 
oil - reflection seismography. It kinda works like sonar for the 
earth's insides. We use a dynamite   explosion or an air gun to create seismic 
waves. The waves bounce off things and we   can read the responses to detect underground 
structures like those that might contain oil. So the company's early business model 
was to send crews of people out into   the field on behalf of the big oil 
companies to find new oil fields. ## GSI
The technology worked, but 1930 marked the beginning of one of 
America's worst economic depressions. Oil fell to historically low prices. GSI 
responded by expanding internationally,   sending crews to Venezuela, Ecuador, India,   and Saudi Arabia. This business did quite well 
before Europe fell into war later in the decade. But back home, the exploration crews had 
nothing to do. So management moved away   from oil exploration/surveying and towards 
production. Eventually the company found   and developed several oil properties in 
southwest Texas, Louisiana and Alabama. The oil companies did not enjoy the idea of their 
former partner eventually competing against them. To defuse the tensions, Karcher and McDermott 
proposed a restructuring. Karcher would run the   oil development business - named Coronado 
- and GSI became Coronado’s subsidiary. ## Independence
But the whole entity still lost money and clients still threatened to cancel 
over conflicts of interest. So finally in 1941, Karcher decided to sell the 
whole business including its 2,000 barrels of   daily oil production for $5 million to Stanolind 
Oil & Gas - forerunner of Amoco, which is now BP. To do right by GSI's customers, Stanolind 
offered GSI's management the option to   purchase the subsidiary's assets 
for $300,000. The potential buyers   were Eugene McDermott and his partners Cecil 
Green, H. Bates Peacock, and J. Erik Jonsson. It was not a slam-dunk decision. 
The business was losing $10,000   a month. The war raging in Europe 
had curtailed the international oil   exploration business. Competition was 
rising. The future seemed uncertain. Cecil Green was reluctant at first - even 
writing a letter threatening to resign - but Jonsson eventually convinced him to 
change his mind. Green and Jonsson had   to mortgage their personal properties 
and stocks to pay their $75,000 share. ## War
The buyout closed in November 1941. A month later was the attack on Pearl Harbor and the 
United States entering World War II. The war meant all of GSI's crews 
working abroad had to come home.   One GSI crew doodlebugging on the 
Indonesian island of Sumatra scrambled   to escape the Port of Sunbaja ahead of 
the approaching Imperial Japanese Army. With shots firing on the outskirts of 
town, two members of the team boarded   a small rubber transport ship which was then 
hit by a Japanese torpedo, sinking all their   possessions. They scrambled into a tiny lifeboat, 
got picked up by a passing ship and made it home. With no choice, GSI pivoted to defense 
technology. It came about a funny way.   GSI cofounder McDermott receives 
a call from a former colleague at   Columbia University about building a thing 
for the Navy. What’s that thing? Classified. That thing turned out to be 
a submarine detecting system   called "Magnetic Anomaly Detector" or 
MAD. It looks for submarines by finding   disturbances in the earth's magnetic 
field created by a large iron body. Despite first receiving a faulty circuit design 
from the National Defense Research Committee,   the machine they built worked 
perfectly. Throughout the war,   GSI became one of the nation's 
biggest providers of MAD equipment. After the war ended in 1945, GSI was keen 
to continue its pivot towards defense   electronics. Jonsson really liked one of the 
military guys he worked with during the war, a 31-year old at the Navy's Bureau 
of Aeronautics named Pat Haggerty.   Haggerty wanted to try something 
new so Jonsson offered him a job. ## L&M Haggerty joined as the new head of the Laboratory 
and Manufacturing Division, or L&M Division. Established in the Spring of 1946, 
the L&M Division numbered about 85   people. Their goal was to shore 
up GSI's manufacturing chops to   make them more competitive for 
military electronics business. Meanwhile the end of the war allowed GSI's oil 
exploration crews to return to Saudi Arabia,   Mexico and Brazil. These international revenues   sustained the company as they built 
out their manufacturing expansion. In 1947, GSI won their first large military 
contract for a bomb sight. Two years later,   they outbid Philco for their biggest 
contract yet. To win the deal,   GSI promised to deliver the APS-31 
radar system - a thing they never   built before - in just nine months at a 
fixed price. They nailed it, of course. ## Texas Instruments
It was a time of great change for GSI. The Korean War was raging and the 
company's L&M Division was rapidly   growing from military contracts for air 
radar systems and other equipment. The   company was making millions in sales 
from these products - not from oil. So in 1950, Jonsson and Haggerty felt 
GSI needed a new name and organization   that better reflected its current situation. 
But what name? After a closed door session,   they first came up with General Instruments, 
which was announced in January 1951. But that name happens to be similar to 
another defense contractor in New York   called General Instrument. Singular. 
People got confused and annoyed. So Jonsson threw a bunch of people into 
a room and told them to come up with a   new name. His only instructions 
were that it should have "Texas"   in the name. Not soon afterwards, 
we got Texas Instruments, or TI. TI did an extensive restructuring, making 
the GSI oil exploration business one of   its subsidiaries. That business ran 
alongside all the semiconductor stuff   for actually a pretty long time - it was 
finally sold off to Haliburton in 1988. ## The Transistor In June 1948, Bell Labs announced 
to the world the discovery of the   first transistor - the point contact transistor. I covered this in a prior video. A transistor is 
a device capable of either amplifying a signal,   or controlling it like a switch. 
The point contact transistor was   a legitimate scientific breakthrough, but not 
rugged enough to be commercially successful. The later junction transistor - also known as a 
bipolar transistor - offered better stability and   reliability. It is made up of three alternating 
sections of doped silicon or germanium. Those sections are called the emitter, 
base, and collector. The boundaries   between those areas create the "junctions" 
that give the Junction transistor its name. The transistor will take in a small 
voltage that is its input signal,   and use that to control a larger current flowing 
through from the emitter to the collector. Advancements in growing pure germanium 
and silicon crystal allowed Bell Labs to   create a commercially viable junction transistor. Key to that effort was a Bell 
Labs technician named Gordon   Teal. He became one of the world's best at 
growing crystals and selectively "doping"   them with other elements like antimony to 
create N and P-type silicon or germanium. ## Getting the Transistor Soon after the 1948 Bell Labs announcement, 
Haggerty quickly realized that the transistor   would be special and decided to invest 
in this semiconductor technology. Luckily for TI, there existed an avenue 
to acquire it. AT&T's anti-trust deal with   the US Government required them to license 
out their technologies. So throughout 1951,   TI tried to engage Bell Labs and acquire 
a license to transistor production tech. The Bell Labs people did not hide their 
skepticism about these random cowboys.   Jonsson recalled being told by Bell executives 
that TI was unlikely to succeed in transistors. They were not entirely wrong to be skeptical. Back 
then, the value proposition for transistors was   not so clear. Vacuum tubes were more battle-tested 
and cost far less - like 60 cents each tube. Each   Germanium transistor then had to be made 
by hand - so they cost about $2-3 each. But TI persisted. They mailed a 
$25,000 check to pay for the license   fee and Haggerty even took graduate 
physics courses at night. In 1952,   Bell Labs held a big symposium to discuss 
how to produce transistors. TI attended. Upon returning, TI immediately set upon the work 
of automating transistor manufacturing - assigning   the task to one of their top guys 
Mark Shephard. By the end of 1953,   Shephard's team was turning out thousands 
of grown junction transistors each month. ## Going to Silicon The beginning of 1953 saw another 
big milestone - TI hired Gordon Teal. Haggerty and Teal had met at the 1952 Bell 
Labs symposium. Teal was born in Dallas,   Texas. After working for 22 years at Bell 
Labs in New Jersey, he wanted to come home.   TI offered him that way home along with a higher 
salary and a chance to run his own research lab. So in January 1953, Teal became 
a TI Assistant Vice President and   founding head of TI Research Lab. 
Soon as he started, he got to work   building a team to produce very pure single 
crystals of silicon for making transistors. Most of the early breakthroughs in solid state 
physics occurred with germanium. But it soon   became clear that germanium's lower melting point 
and band gap made its transistors less reliable. When their internal temperatures hit 
75 degrees Celsius, germanium-based   transistors leak electrons and basically 
fail. Silicon-based transistors on the   other hand with their higher band gaps can 
sustain temperatures of up to 130 degrees. ## Silicon Dreams The major challenge though would be 
creating a silicon crystal pure enough. Silicon's higher temperature and strong 
reactivity mean that it easily absorbs   impurities like oxygen as it is being 
pulled out from the melt. Yet within a   year and a half of Teal's arrival on April 1954, 
TI produced silicon grown junction transistors. Teal recalls in a later oral history: > It took just the time necessary to 
get somebody to help turn my suggestions   into pieces of pulling equipment. I gave 
suggestions ... so they built a crystal   puller based on my suggestions and also 
[from] looking at crystal pullers that   I was using in Bell Labs and had 
already been using for sometime. So anti-climactic. Teal first announced the 
breakthrough in May 1954, at a meeting of   the IRE National Conference of Airborne 
Electronics in Dayton, Ohio. He recalls: > During the morning sessions, 
the speakers had unwittingly set   the stage for us. One after the other 
they had remarked how hopeless it was   to expect the development of a silicon 
transistor in less than several years. Teal listened, knowing that he had a few 
production silicon transistors literally   in his pocket. Then he got up and gave his 
presentation. Two-thirds of the way through,   he dramatically revealed to 
the audience what they had. Stunned, a person in the audience asked "Did you 
say you have silicon transistors in production?"   Teal said yes, and demonstrated their temperature 
resilience by dumping a silicon transistorized   amplifier into hot oil. It still worked, and 
the audience members rushed to report the news. Texas Instruments had actually not been 
first to create a silicon transistor. Bell   Labs' Morris Tanenbaum - Teal's colleague 
- first fabricated them in January 1954. But Bell Labs failed to capitalize 
on their achievement. They just sat   on it. Either because they were already 
heavily invested in germanium transistors,   or it was not patentable, or just did 
not think it was all that important. Meanwhile, TI rushed their 
silicon transistors - TI 903,   904, and 905 - to market. And for several years 
until 1958, they were its only producers. Sales   skyrocketed and margins were fantastic. The 
silicon transistor became TI's big break. The US military was especially 
interested in silicon transistor   technology. The Soviets had recently sent 
up Sputnik, and the silicon transistor’s   ruggedness offered the American space 
program a significant advantage. ## Pervasiveness
As the silicon transistor neared its debut, Haggerty in the spring of 1954 decided 
to make a transistorized radio. Making a consumer electronics device 
might seem like a strange step for a   company with a history rooted in transistors 
and oil exploration equipment. And indeed,   they just wanted to make transistors 
and sell them to whoever wanted them. But as his protege Morris Chang would later say, 
Haggerty always believed in the "pervasiveness" of   semiconductors. These needed to be produced at 
huge volumes. And to do that, TI needed a high   volume sales channel. The military market was 
great, but the commercial market was greater. Haggerty wanted to demonstrate to other 
electronics companies still putting   vacuum tubes into their products that transistor 
technology had matured. And it was ready for them. ## The Radio Building what would eventually be 
the Regency TR-1 was a regal ordeal. Haggerty initiated the program in Spring 1954, 
and wanted the radio on consumer shelves by   Christmas. The timeline was very tight. A 
dozen engineers worked 10-12 hour days on   a circuit board design, trying to balance the 
right number of transistors and their cost. For instance, the radio might play 
beautifully with the newly introduced   silicon transistors - but each of those 
transistors cost $100. And even $30 for the   whole radio was a bit much. So they stuck 
with germanium. After this crash program,   they had a 4-transistor board. But who was 
going to manufacture and distribute it? Cofounder Cecil Green recalls: > Well, as I say, the major radio 
companies weren't much interested,   but we found that a small high fidelity instrument 
making company up in Indianapolis named Regency. At the time, Regency was only eight years 
old. Founded by a few ex-RCA engineers,   they were then making TV boosters. They took the 
job because they were unafraid of anything new,   and crafted a device big enough 
for a good-quality dress shirt   pocket and with a battery 
life of about 20-30 hours. The radios went into production in November 
1954. They sold at Neiman Marcus for about   $49 each or $510 in 2021. It apparently 
sold well enough to warrant successors. During its run, Regency's parent company   chairman Ed Tudor said that half 
of their sales came from radios. A few years later however, Japanese companies like 
Sony, Hitachi, Toshiba, and Matsushita/Panasonic   flooded the market - capturing 80% share 
and driving the Americans out of the show. For TI, the financial impact was mixed. All in, 
the program lost about $1.25 million - including   assets bought and R&D spent from 1952 
to 1955. But the device was a strategic   success. Semiconductor sales rocketed, and in 
1960 hit a staggering $200 million per year. One of those radio buyers was 
a guy named Thomas Watson Jr.,   president of IBM, and the founder's 
son. Impressed, he struck a highly   coveted licensing deal with TI for their 
transistor technology in December 1957. Then he wrote a memo telling his 
sprawling organization, "After June 1,   1958, we will build no more machines with 
electron tubes". Haggerty’s big bet paid off. ## Inventing the IC(?) Over time, transistors gave 
way to the integrated circuit. Scientists and industrialists have long envisioned 
the commercial viability of mass-producing a   miniaturized circuit with various transistors, 
devices, and critically, their interconnects. In March 1959, TI announced that their 
researcher Jack Kilby had produced the   first working integrated circuit 
or IC. Tested on September 1958,   it had a transistor and a few other devices on a 
slice of germanium. A silicon version came later. TI called it the greatest thing since 
the commercialization of the silicon   transistor earlier in the decade. 
And indeed, there was some value in   demonstrating the feasibility of putting all 
these devices on the same sliver of material. But the reality is that Kilby's device was 
not very practical for commercial use. It   didn't solve the IC's major issue of shrinking and 
mass-producing interconnects between the devices. Six months after Kilby's invention, 
Robert Noyce - future co-founder of   Intel but then working at Fairchild 
- invents a fully integrated IC by   building on top of his colleague Jean 
Hoerni's breakthrough "planar process". Simply speaking, the planar process 
leverages a special silicon trait - its   ability to produce a layer of silicon 
dioxide in the presence of water and   heat. This thin silicon dioxide layer was 
previously seen as a nuisance and removed. But silicon dioxide is an insulator, 
and Hoerni recognized that they can   use those insulating properties to both 
protect an IC's various components from   contamination - as well as electrically 
isolate it to prevent interference. Noyce then realizes that the silicon dioxide 
layer can also prevent the metals in a metal   wire connecting the IC's devices from 
seeping into and poisoning the silicon. So he creates a step now known as 
"aluminium metallization" - the back   end process of laying down all of an IC's 
connecting wires in a single wondrous step. The result is what we now call the 
monolithic integrated circuit. It   underperformed competing circuits of the 
time, but it was far more reliable. And   the fact that we can now print and produce 
it in steps that do not correlate with its   size or complexity allowed for rapid 
miniaturization and cost scaling. So Kilby's thing came first, but Noyce's 
thing was more practical. A long patent   war thus naturally ensued, ending up 
with the two guys sharing joint credit. And history largely concurs. Kilby and Noyce 
would have won the Nobel together in 2000 had   Noyce not passed away in 1990 at the still-young 
age of 62. I truly wish I could have met him. If you would like to deep dive 
into this nerd rap battle,   then there is a very very long 
Wikipedia article you can read. ## The Calculators
Throughout the 1960s, US Military spending on missile and rocket programs push 
early IC investment. TI had over   a hundred military contracts for products 
like Transistor-Transistor Logic or TTL. But Haggerty still wanted more. Harkening back 
to the Regency TR-1 radio, he decided to try the   tactic again. Let us build something with these 
ICs and sell it to the people to stimulate demand. In 1965 while boarding a business flight, 
he suggests to Kilby the idea of a "personal   computer" that can replace big heavy desktop 
electric calculators and the slide rule. A slide rule predates even my time. 
Wikipedia says that it is a mechanical   calculator consisting of slidable 
rulers for mathematical calculations. My father used to use one in 
university and later handed   it down to me when I was little. I 
had no idea how to use it - still   don't - but nevertheless treasured 
it and it now sits in my study room. Anyway, Haggerty throws around a lot of dumb 
ideas - one other suggestion on that 1965 flight   was to make a lipstick sized dictation machine 
and that was a stinker - but this one stuck. Kilby interpreted Haggerty's vague idea 
to be a digital calculator product that   would cost less than $100, can fit into a 
coat pocket and do addition, subtraction,   division, multiplication, and maybe a square root. Kilby wrangles a team at TI's IC department 
to build it, which is soon named the CAL-TECH. The working calculator was shown to Pat Haggerty 
a year later in 1966. Made from solid aluminum,   it was about four inches wide and 
six inches long. It had 18 keys for   input and printed out the results on a paper tape. TI shows the CAL-TECH to various companies and 
Japan's Canon shows interest. The two partner   up to produce the Canon Pocketronic 
- released in April 1970 or 1971,   sources differ. We largely consider it the 
first commercial digital pocket calculator. Then in 1972, TI officially enters 
the calculator market with the TI-2500   Datamath single-chip calculator, 
the SR-10 scientific calculator,   and others. The division became a $100 million 
business, and a $200 million business the second   year. TI previously had only wanted to 
make transistors. But money changed that. ## Going Hard Into Consumer In 1973, Texas Instruments had 
become a $1 billion company. Coming off the gleaming success of 
the consumer calculator program, the   company decided its future was to go deeper and 
deeper into this consumer electronics strategy. The man chosen to spearhead this push was 
Morris Chang. By 1967, he had risen to be   general manager of TI's integrated circuits 
division - its most important semiconductor   division. He then became vice president 
of all of TI's semiconductor businesses. After about six years or so there, TI gave Morris 
the consumer business portfolio. At a conference   in 1974, Chang laid out the company's 
thinking behind this push to consumer: > "The most important motivation for 
vertical integration by semiconductor   manufacturers is the opportunity for higher 
growth resulting from increased value added   for products where the principal function 
is already performed by semiconductors" 30-35% of a calculator’s business 
value is in its chip. Simply speaking,   Morris said that by making better semiconductors,   you can bring more differentiated and 
valuable products to the market at lower cost. Chang mentioned other products 
with high market opportunity to   be data terminals, electronic watches, 
point-of-sale systems, and computers. The consumer market - then in the midst of 
an Asian invasion - was a bloody battlefield,   but TI had confidence. At a 
shareholder conference in 1976,   they officially announced their 
entry into consumer electronics. ## Toys and Watches
At the 1975 Consumer Electronics Show in Chicago, TI displayed their next big 
consumer product - digital watches. These watches had red LEDs or LCDs and 
were powered by custom TI-made integrated   circuits. In 1976, TI entered the market 
with a bang - bringing out two high-end   LCD lines selling for over $250 as well 
as a low-end red LED watch for under $20. But the watch market is brutal. 
Other semiconductor makers like   National Semiconductor and Intel also took 
the plunge into the watch business. The year   TI came out into the market, there were 
over 40 different digital watch vendors. TI tried to undercut the market with a $9.95 
watch, but margins were brutal. After few years,   TI exited in 1981. Eventually 
the traditional watchmakers   reclaimed the market, focusing 
on luxury and status-signaling. Overall, Chang did not look back fondly 
on his years working on TI's consumer   business. In retrospect, the calculator 
success was perhaps a bit too much of a   sweet success. New CEO Mark Shepard 
refused to enter a business unless   it had the potential to be a $200 
million business within 3 years. Things that could have been 
a decent niche business were   set aside because the market wasn't 
judged to be big enough. In the end,   TI could only enter super-competitive, bloody 
red markets - like the digital watch industry. And many of the businesses that TI did end 
up entering required stretching outside   TI's circle of competence. Throughout 
the 1970s, TI made radio receivers,   digital thermometers, home thermostats, 
educational video games, and a CB radio. They even opened a retail outlet - the 
TI Store - to showcase their products   to the public. There were TI Stores 
in Dallas, Italy, Berlin, and the UK. One product that Chang did seem to 
be proud of was the "Speak & Spell",   which used the world's first single-chip speech 
synthesizer. The product grew out of efforts   to find a commercial application 
for higher capacity bubble memory. It was the hot toy of 1978, and even had 
prominent roles in the ET and Toy Story movies. ## The Computer TI's final, most costly foray - its 1812 invasion 
of Russia - was into the home computer market. TI had been working on single-chip computers for a   while. The Speak & Spell was built using 
a TMS 1000 microcontroller - which also   powered a variety of machines like microwave 
ovens, calculators, video games, and so on. But TI largely disregarded the computer 
and minicomputer market. Back then,   such computers were at least the size of cabinets,   which limited their market potential. 
How many such devices can you sell? What the people at TI and many other 
companies did not foresee was the   microcomputer - something we now call personal 
computers. Kicked off by the Altair 8800 in 1975,   the microcomputer industry spawned new names 
like Apple, Commodore, and Tandy/Radio Shack. And when softwares like the 
VisiCalc spreadsheet hit the market,   microcomputers became more than just toys. 
They became valuable record-keeping and   scheduling tools for small businesses 
like accountants, dentists, and so on. TI realized that this market was 
not going away. They knew what they   had to do. So throughout 1979, the rumors 
started to crop up everywhere. The giant,   Texas Instruments, was going 
into the home computer business. ## The TMS-9000 To power this computer, TI 
needed a microprocessor. They wanted their offering to be the first 16-bit 
home computer, meaning that its circuitry can   handle 16 bits at the same time - more memory 
capacity allowing for more complex tasks. By comparison, the then-dominant 
Apple II and Commodore PET ran 8-bit   microprocessors. So TI's computer would 
theoretically have a compute advantage. TI had long built custom minicomputers for 
customers in the oil and scientific industries.   TI VP Walden "Wally" Rhines later recalled in 
an IEEE article that there was a "one company,   one architecture" rule. So 
they decided to adapt their   minicomputers' 16-bit architecture 
for this new microcomputer chip. That turned out to be a mistake. The team 
struggled to get this microprocessor - the   TMS 9900 - out. Peripherals were limited 
due to there being no 16-bit chips,   necessitating the weird engineering 
hack of adding an 8-bit port. But   that compromised any benefits of the 
processor having a 16-bit architecture. The chip also had 64 pins rather than 
the traditional 40 pins, limiting its   design wins outside of TI's own products. It would   have done better had it been designed from 
the ground up as a microcomputer product. In late 1978, Rhines gave a presentation about 
the TMS 9900 chip to a small group at IBM in   Florida for an unnamed project - the IBM Personal 
Computer. Unimpressed by the 9900's shortcomings,   Boca Raton chose the 16-bit Intel 8088 for 
their PC's microprocessor - a fateful choice. ## 800 Pound Gorilla Anyway, it didn't seem like a 
huge loss at the time because   Texas Instruments was the 800 pound 
gorilla of the semiconductor industry. They were the ones that Apple, Tandy, 
and other guys feared would enter their   space. Then it happened. In 1979, TI 
brought out their 99/4 home computer. The computer's introductory price was 
about $1,150 or $4,600 today - which   was high for the time. Customers noted 
the limited selection of peripherals   and software - which focused on education, 
personal finance and home management stuff. They also complained about 
the calculator-style chiclet   keyboard - reminds me of Apple's issues with their 
own chiclet keyboard. Some things never change. At first, sales grew slowly. So the 
TI team overhauled their strategy.   They made a better keyboard, more peripherals,   and cut the price by over half. The result 
was the 99/4A Home Computer, or just the   TI Home Computer. It sold to the retailer 
for about $340 and to the consumer at $550. To sell the 99/4A, TI coopted many of the 
microcomputer vendors' tactics. They cut   deals with over 5,000 traditional 
retail stores - Toys R Us, K-Mart,   and such - not the special computer 
shops they used before. They hired   thousands of teachers to educate 
customers on how to use the machine. And they also orchestrated an ambitious 
marketing campaign to get the word out.   They bought a big TV ad campaign featuring 
Bill Cosby - bad move looking back at it. ## Disadvantages
But things soon spiraled out of control. A Texas Monthly article recalls how 
TI originally wanted to do three   computers - with a high and middle-end 
computer alongside the low-end 99/4A. However, manufacturing issues and personnel 
squabbles derailed that effort. The other   business groups felt the consumer group 
was encroaching on their fiefdoms. The company's engineering-focused culture 
also gave it a bad case of "Not Invented   Here" syndrome. So they were unwilling to court 
software partners and share profits with them,   hurting their ability to build a strong third 
party developer ecosystem around their computer. This especially hurt when IBM quickly captured 
the professional market with the PC. TI,   Commodore, and Tandy thus found 
themselves in the low-end consumer   part of the pool - setting the 
stage for a bloody price war. Nevertheless, TI invited 
the battle. Years earlier,   Texas had fought and won the calculator wars 
- beating Commodore in that market so badly   that they nearly filed for bankruptcy. 
A story for another video, perhaps. Semiconductors have always been about dominating 
the market with scale and low cost. Chips were the   key part of the machine, and TI is a chip 
master. This should be their game right? Looking back at it, entering into a price war 
was the wrong thing to do. They could have   gone for an education niche like with the 
calculators. The 99/4A was a high-quality,   well-made computer. Better designed, more capable,   and more costly to make than its competitors. 
TI should never have gotten into that octagon. ## War But they did and this time 
Commodore made them pay. Their low-end Commodore Vic-20 
computer's simpler design combined   with their production lines in 
Asia allowed for far deeper cuts   than TI could sustain. Commodore's 
executives knew this. TI's did not. The Vic-20 hit the market at $300. So TI matched.   They cut retail prices on the 99/4A down 
from $525 at that time to $449 to $300. Already at this point, the computer is selling for 
very little margin. Then Commodore cuts the Vic-20   price down to $200. That pricing situation 
persisted throughout the spring of 1982. In September 1982, the 99/4A is selling at 
$300, but the Vic-20 is about $100 cheaper.   That is when TI added rebates to cut the 
price down to $200 - a shot across the bow. Sales surged. During the second half of 1982,   TI was selling 99/4As like hotcakes - 150,000 
units a month in 12,000 retail outlets. TI's   PC business had blown up into a $200 million 
business almost overnight. Books and software   were being written for the computer. 
Large user support groups sprouted up. But even as sales skyrocketed, TI refused to 
open up the architecture to and share profits   with third party software developers like Apple 
or Commodore did - building a lockout chip into   its computer just like Nintendo did. TI 
really did need those software profits,   but it was another missed opportunity 
to build something long-term. In an attempt to keep up, in December 1982 
Atari cut their 8-bit home computer the Atari   400 to under $200. They were a distant 
third in the segment and fading fast. But Commodore had more to give. In January 1983 
- just as TI were feeling themselves at the peak   of the home computer market - Commodore cut their 
top-end Commodore 64 computer down to just $400; and their low-end Vic-20 to under $130. TI   in turn matched by cutting retail 
prices on the 99/4A to just $150. The retailers screamed foul. Cosby joked about how easy it was to sell a 
computer when TI paid you $100 to buy one. Atari could not sustain this kind 
of competition. In February 1983,   they abruptly fired a quarter of their US 
staff and moved all of their factories to Asia. Then TI blinked and stumbled. As 
Atari melted down, TI discovered a   serious issue with the 99/4A's power 
supply transformer - not referring   to the LLM architecture - that could 
potentially cause users to get shocked. Nothing yet happened, but nevertheless TI reported 
the issue and decided to shut down the line to   rework the product. For a few critical months in 
1983, the 99/4A was not available on the shelves. In April 1983, Commodore delivered the 
final blow. They cut the Vic-20 down to $99,   which was about what the 99/4A cost TI 
to make. TI had no response to this,   and for the first time they did not match. Commodore also slashed the 
Commodore 64's retail price   as well as prices on software - the 
only thing sustaining TI's margins. Commodore had won. Assembly lines kept 
cranking out TI 99/4As, but now the   retailers started returning unsold inventory. 
Sales projections missed again and again. TI's accountants realized that the home computer 
division and its price wars had lost the company   a staggering $200+ million - causing a total 
$119 million loss in the second quarter of   1983. Such a loss, even a giant like TI could not 
sustain and the stock shed a third of its value. The home computer division head Bill 
Turner resigned. And in October 1983,   TI announced their exit from the home 
computer business. Taking into account   both operating losses and write-offs, 
they had lost a staggering $680 million. Looking back again at it, pulling out so abruptly   from the home computer market might 
not have been the right thing to do   too. It was a good computer. There was a 
lot of goodwill built up by enthusiasts. With the new 99/2 in development - internally 
nicknamed the Apple Killer - a pivot into   education to challenge Apple Computer might 
have sustainable. But alas it was not to be. In the wake of this painful withdrawal, TI made 
a final grasp to the professional market with   the TI Professional Computer. But IBM was already 
there with their PC, and TI - again with the Not   Invented Here syndrome - refused to make their 
product fully IBM-compatible. It failed too. ## Conclusion TI's failed foray into the consumer 
electronics field had lasting implications. It torpedoed Morris Chang's previously 
fast-rising career at TI. While he was   promoted to Senior Vice President, he 
lost his shot at the coveted CEO spot. Put out to pasture, he left for 
General Instrument and then after   that - Taiwan. Perhaps a bit sour over 
TI's ventures into consumer electronics,   he later proposed a semiconductor 
company that would never do such a thing. The home computer failure not only lost 
TI their place in a growing market,   but also snuffed out the only big end 
user demand market they had for their   own microprocessors. Their digital 
logic business was never the same. TI has since largely retreated back 
to their core competencies of making   semiconductors - with a focus on 
analog, mixed signal and digital   signal processing ICs. They remain one of 
America's biggest semiconductor companies. Though they still make calculators. The TI 99/4A remains a classic, 
and one of the most famous home   computers in American history. 
Its fans remember it quite fondly. For more information about 
Texas Instruments' history,   I highly recommend this 2005 book by Caleb 
Pirtle III. They made it for the company's   75th anniversary so it's a bit biased 
but the pictures and stories are great.