What is the absolute best laptop you can get for 500 bucks? We went to Best Buy, and it turns out it's this. It's from HP, which isn't a bad thing, but as it turns out, savvy shoppers these days aren't getting their HPs from Best Buy. They're going to Aliexpress or to Chuwi.com, because on paper, the Chuwi Corebook X is so impressive that it deserves the first dedicated laptop review that we've done in over a year. I'm talking more power, more pixels, more battery, and more street cred. That is, if their claims hold up to the scrutiny of the lab, just like this segue holds up to scrutiny. The Ridge, you're a stylish and practical person, so you deserve a wallet that matches. The Ridge Wallet's minimalist design lets you carry your essential cards and cash without the bulk, which is very clearly unessential. Check out the link below and use code Linus to save 10% off your purchase and get free shipping. Chuwi has been around for probably longer than you realize, primarily selling their laptops on Aliexpress, but recently they launched their own store where we first saw this machine, and we were floored that you could get a Core i5 powered laptop with a freaking 1440p display for just 500 bucks. Normally for that price, you're lucky to get 1080p, and can I just say, it doesn't even feel like a $500 laptop, regardless of spec. If you asked me how much I thought this machine was worth, I'd say, yeah, it probably starts at $999 for like kind of a mid-spec. It's not like you're gonna get a unibody chassis at this price point, but the fit and finish of this multi-piece chassis is so good that it doesn't bother me at all. Power adapter. They definitely saved a buck here. Standard barrel jack charger. With that said, however, it does have, count them, one USB-C port that does take up to 65 watts of power delivery, so as long as you have a USB-C charger around, then you can use USB PD. It's also got a USB type A, a headphone-microphone combo jack, and a micro SD slot. One of the other really unexpected things about this to me is how big the trackpad is. It's the little things like, no way. Is this a 16 by 10 display? Even better. Three by two? They went Microsoft Surface on this biz? Wow. Oops, I almost threw this box. See, there's no shortage of Chinese companies that can make or rebadge a laptop that has a decent spec and sometimes even a pretty good price, but they always compromise on something critical. Whereas by contrast, this trackpad feels pretty good. This keyboard is way better than it has any right to be. And it even uses an Intel Wi-Fi chipset. Is this thing just knock it out of the park amazing or have $500 laptops just gotten a lot better? To find out, we explored the $500 options on Best Buy and found a few key things you're going to want to keep in mind if you're shopping in this price point. First and foremost, you should never buy a $500 laptop at full price. You want to be a bargain hunter. Find something on sale. You should expect something one to two generations old in the i5 or R5 range, 16 gigs of RAM, a real non-EMMC SSD, and at least a 1080p display. One thing to really look out for is the Wi-Fi card that they're using. We were tempted to buy this ASUS VivoBook until we saw it had a one by one Wi-Fi card, which is going to make internet browsing, especially if you're multitasking significantly slower. So with all that in mind, we chose the HP laptop, not HP Envy, Pavilion, or Spectre. It's literally just called HP laptop. In spite of its name, it earned our purchase. It hit all of the marks that we expect for a budget conscious machine. But how does it compare to the Chuwi? I can tell you right now it feels cheaper immediately. Like, holy crap, it's also, oh, why does it feel so much thicker? It's not even, but it feels thicker. Did you notice that? It looks thicker. Right? Oh, you know what? I know why it feels thicker, because it is thicker. Watch this. Boom, thicker. The Chuwi has taller feet, so it's actually getting more airflow to the bottom vent. With that said, HP obviously is going to have some advantages here. More robust IO, two type A's, along with a type C, HDMI out, full-sized SD card slot, and headphone microphone jack. Does this type C accept power and delivery though? Because it also ships with a barrel jack. Let's try it. I don't have especially high hopes though, because on the Chuwi, you'll notice that that USB-C port is right next to the barrel jack, where the power delivery is on the main board. On this one, they're on the opposite sides. That's a negatory. Type C charging's a big deal for me. And for a student or someone who might be picking up a machine like this, it's probably a big deal for them too. Having just one charger in your bag, for your phone, your laptop, maybe you have a Nintendo Switch or something like that. It's nice to not have to carry around anything else in your backpack. Oh, and speaking of backpacks, lttstore.com. Even aside from that, this machine just looks and feels like it's from 8 to 10 years ago. There's a rough edge here. That's how bright the screen gets. And this track pad, you are going to find yourself wishing you had one more like this. Is this one even at max brightness? This one wasn't even at max brightness for the comparison. Okay, I need to put the same wallpaper on, just so you guys can get some idea of what's going on here. This is bad. Oh wait, no, they're reigning me in. I'm supposed to do a weight test now. Okay, hold on. We'll talk about the displays in a minute, because, hmm. In fairness to HP, the screen is notably larger. And it has a number pad if you're into that sort of thing. But it also has these arrow keys that make me want to murder someone. I think those are fine. Hmm, let's see you play Liero on them. I became very high level in Tetris Battle with keys like that. Before we weigh these, for context, ultrabooks of this size start around one kilo or 2.2 pounds with anything around three pounds being pretty normal. The Chuwi is 2.999 pounds, three pounds exactly, not bad. And bearing in mind, of course, that the HP does have a substantially larger display. It comes in at 3.5, not bad. I think that's pretty reasonable as long as it has a good sized battery in it. Before we get into the keyboard and track pad in more detail, I want to do a quick test that Alex calls the Maraca test, because one of the parts of the laptop you will touch more than anything else is actually the palm rests. So watch this. That amount of vibration, pretty acceptable. Actually not bad, I'd say similar. But for context, this is, what is this, a dragonfly? Okay, so it turns out there is a reason that people buy more premium laptops or get their work to get into them. I don't mind the shift position. Alex gave it an A minus, taking off points for the mediocre lateral stability and some key to key inconsistencies. He also doesn't like the right shift key. I don't mind it. I actually agree with his grade though, because for me, it's the sound and the feel overall that are holding it back a little bit. You do just get a little bit too much Maraca effect. With that said, this is relatively very mushy. Some people will prefer the quieter sound, but while I don't blame the key switches themselves, there is so much flex in the deck that you're never going to get a clean solid tactile touch typing experience out of this. Coming back to the Chuwi, it definitely has deck flex too, but to its credit, at least it's more consistent across the entire board. Whereas with the HP laptop, there's parts that are more solid and parts that feel like there's a sinkhole under them. The size on the HP didn't end up being as big of an issue as I expected it to be. And while neither of them are using a glass top or anything premium like that, both of them functioned well as expected, registering everything from taps to drags to multi-taps for your right click or whatever else the case may be. He's doing a thing, I don't know what it is. All that I am doing is opening paint and paint bucketing red at 255. Oh, that is the same red. That is so much worse than I expected. This looks so flat and dull and lifeless. On the one hand, it is a matte style display, so it does affect your perception of color vibrancy, but not that much. Even if it's expected, it's still disappointing and color gamut was not the only way the Chuwi ran away with this. It reached a peak brightness of 445 nits with HP stuck in the dust at 280 nits, which isn't as bad as it sounds because our response to brightness is non-linear. The HP will appear 82% as bright, but I can tell you it doesn't feel like 82% as bright. It's just like, man, when you hit this thing, na, na, na, na, na, na, na, na, na, na, na. That's a big difference. One thing we glossed over, does the Chuwi have a backlit keyboard? Oh, yes it does. Okay, nevermind. No advantage, HP laptop. Also, this is cool. Function Space Bar is a shortcut for fan and performance profiles. Back to the displays though, Chuwi managed 97% coverage of the sRGB color space with HP coming in at 63%. Ouch, you know what? I bet that's a big part of why the perceived difference in brightness is so much greater. Oh yeah. Because color plays a major role there and this ain't got it. As for accuracy, Chuwi managed an average Delta E2000 of just 2.4 with a maximum of 4.8, whereas HP was 3.9 average maximum 19.7. That's what poor color gamut is gonna do to you because even if the panel's calibrated, it just doesn't have the physical capability to represent those colors. With that said, it's not like I'm gonna recommend the Chuwi for professional color work or anything like that. It's not quite at that Delta E of two that we'd wanna see. But if you're just casually editing photos for uploading to Facebook or something, it's a great little machine for it. Speaking of getting worked on on your laptop, let's talk performance. For the CPU, the Chuwi is equipped with an Intel Core i5-1235U. That is a 10-core processor with two performance cores and eight efficiency cores. And while it's only a generation newer than the i5-1135G7 in the HP, the jump from 11th to 12th gen in laptops was huge. We are talking a 71% increase in Cinebench multi-core scores. Now, in more single-threaded workloads, the gap isn't as large, but the Chuwi still managed to smoke the HP in every test we threw at them, which includes games. While neither of these is marketed as a hardcore gaming machine or anything like that, we do expect people to play casual games like Dota 2 or Rocket League on them. And especially with the turbo mode enabled, which gives it about 11% more performance, the Chuwi stomped all over the HP, like obliterated it. Also, I just can't get over how bad that HP looks. It's like in Gears of War filter. Yeah, I'm not over it either. This looks like a completely different map or like they did a palette swap or something on it. Look at that. It looks brown. The grass looks dead. Oh, wow. Did we do a sound test on these? Listen to how much louder the HP is. I'm not even running the game anymore. And the Chuwi, I think the HP is louder in my microphone. It's dead quiet. Wait, is that in the script? No. Oh, yeah. Well, I don't think we even need a sound chamber to tell which one won that test. Another thing you need to look out for in budget laptops are cashless SSDs. But to explain why that's terrible, let's take a look at this one terabyte drive from XPG Right here we can see the NAND flash memory chips, which are what store your data. You could think of them kind of like the shelves in a library Over here we have the SSD controller which is kind of like a librarian between them, we have the DRAM cache which contains a map of where all of the data on these flash chips is stored. Kind of like the computer that a librarian would use. Without the DRAM cache,  that map of the library gets stored onto the NAND flash which is way slower, kind of think of it  like making that poor librarian switch back to using index cards. As a bonus, since the map of the SSD is stored on the NAND flash itself, the reads and writes are way increased which means a lot of cacheless SSDs have a shorter warranty period than one with a proper cache. I was supposed to do a demo here showing how sometimes Crystal Disk Mark can be deceiving. The Chuwi actually outperformed the HP in our initial runs, but I guess that it's, um, garbaged up enough at this point that it's showing its true colors and yeah, this is what we're looking at here. It's noticeable in day-to-day use, but there is a silver lining. Under these two screws right here is an open M.2 slot that I would recommend you start saving up to fill pretty much as soon as you buy this thing. Cool little thing I noticed by the way, there's a little thermal pad, a little spacer that allows that SSD to dissipate heat using the chassis. Hey, we did another run of this to get a B-roll shot of the results and it- the Chuwi is winning again. I wonder if it's thermal related as well or something. This is very eccentric behavior from it. No, it's just the cache and if it's filled up or not. Got it, got it. Now let's find out if you should be saving up for some speakers in a webcam. Hey, oh, hi, Alex. Hey. We got both set to 720p. Yep, that's the max they'll both do. And wow, the Chuwi is bad. If I had to guess, I'd say they didn't calibrate it for white skin. Wow, that's not fair at all. Look, I'm completely blown out. I love this. The CPU pillow behind there, lttstore.com, looks like just a solid brown thing on the bottom. Not what it looks like at all. Let's see, where did we completely lose that detail? Right around here. Tinny, boomy and unfocused. I'd take the Chuwi. Oh, I don't know. The HP is so much louder and has so much more low end. So much more distortion though. I'd take my phone over both. Your phone also costs more than both. Are we taking apart both or just the Chuwi? Might as well take apart both. Oh, this is just two screws. Oh, HP. What? You dickheads. But that's good. No, it's definitely underneath these feet. Oh, I'm not opening it then. That's dumb. You heard it here first. HP certified dickheads. It's so unnecessary. Just put the screws here and here. It doesn't matter. It's a $500 laptop. Who are you trying to impress? Or like there and there. Yeah, like you did on this much more premium model. You dickheads. I do still like your laptops though. This one's great. Oh, wow. This is really not as easy to take apart as I was hoping. I think they did it too. Chuwi, you dickheads. Certified dickheads. Oh, dickheads. Okay, well, it comes off a lot more easily now. Oh, I'm sorry. Are you guys just noticing that the top of the screwdriver is still spinning? Coming soon, lttstore.com. One of the things I wanted to see in here was the battery. Chuwi's equipped this thing with a 46 watt hour battery, which is a little over 10% more than the capacity of the HP. And that combined with a 12th versus 11th gen CPU should add up to significantly better battery life. Unfortunately, in the real world, things don't always work out the way they do on paper. As a baseline, our HP laptop was able to last an impressive six hours and 52 minutes in our battery life endurance test. Now, Chuwi claims eight hours of battery life on their website, but in our testing, we only managed three hours and 17 minutes. Yikes. Now, normally we do our endurance tests in the balanced profile with battery saver on, the logic being that we've heard from multiple laptop makers that less than 10% of users ever touch a laptop's power profiles. But for the Chuwi, we were so disappointed that we wanted to see what happens if we run a battery test in their eco mode with the screen at minimum brightness, and it still only lasted for three hours, 41 minutes. Double ouch. We reached out to Chuwi to see if maybe we got a model with a bad battery, and their response is one of the most incredible takes we've ever seen, with them saying three and a half hours is expected for continuous usage, while the claimed eight hours is for on and off usage when you're using your laptop intermittently. I mean, by that logic, I get 80 hours of battery life out of my laptop when I leave it in my backpack over a long weekend. How did, seriously? Oh, do you have the email? It's possible that some of this is due to power management of the CPU, so maybe it could be improved with a BIOS update. I saw that framework actually had a blog post recently talking about the challenge of dealing with things like USB power management, CPU power management for one of their upcoming laptops, investment disclosure, but Alex's theory is that most of this is coming down to that 1440p display. I mean, that is a big part of why we liked this thing so much in the first place, but having a higher resolution, higher brightness panel has a big effect on your battery life. For general usability, I'm sure that some people would sacrifice some battery life for a better screen, but I'm sure that a lot of people would actually feel the opposite way about it. Oh, geez, don't take it out, don't take it out. Remember, it's on and we still need to get the webcam stuff off of that. Oh, okay, here, here, I'll show you that. Originally, we did think that it had no DRAM cache, but a system info tool told us it did. I don't see one. I don't either. You know what, if I had to guess, I'd say it's probably using system memory for a cache, but it's just like a slow, crappy controller. Yeah, maybe. So it's probably just doing a really poor job of managing it or something like that, and maybe that fooled that utility that you guys were using. This does not have DRAM on it, though. It's physically not there. For that matter, does the HP have a DRAM cache? Oh yeah, it has an actual Samsung SSD. One thing that we did notice, though, is that it does get slower under really, really long workloads, because this is a plastic, which is in a great heat sink, and it does overheat. With that said, in talking to people about what's important to them in a laptop, you'd be surprised how many don't need to run long blender renders and don't care if it eventually overheats. I was also surprised to find out how many people didn't care about decent battery life. I mean, I get it. If it's just gonna sit on your desk at home or on your desk at work and only be a couple of hours away from the wall a day, that might be livable for you. So if you're in that boat, the Chuwi is fantastic in every other way for the price. Otherwise, you might have to make some compromises on spec for a more not fatally flawed product. We'll have both of them linked down below, along with a link to our sponsor. Delete Me. Delete Me has a strong moral intuition that companies who constantly share your personal information online without your consent probably shouldn't be doing that. So Delete Me's mission is to help you find and remove hundreds of online profiles that are sharing your personal info, which can be used by scammers, to bombard you with robocalls and spam emails. And in more extreme cases, it can even lead to identity theft or fraud. And fun fact, those are bad. Removing all this information by yourself is possible, but it would be an hours long slog. And thanks to Delete Me's software and their team of experts, they can shorten that time to just minutes. On average, Delete Me finds and removes over 2,000 pieces of data for our customer in their first two years, which is as helpful as it is kind of scary. So if you want to go back to when you only got phone calls from your mom, go to joindeleteme.com slash LinusTechTips and use code LTT for 20% off. If you guys enjoyed this video, it wasn't really a review per se, but we did check out the cheapest laptop on the market and it was fun.