- Today, the word PlayStation is basically synonymous with gaming. Its impact stretches across decades and generations of players have grown up with titles like Uncharted, Gran Turismo and The Last of Us. I mean, just hearing the
intro chime of the PS1 gives me goosebumps every single time. (mimicking PS1 chime) (clears throat)
I'll work on my impression. The beginning of the
story is kind of wild, Sony announced the Nintendo PlayStation only for Nintendo out of nowhere to announce a partnership with Philips and completely burn Sony. Fueled by revenge, Sony
struck out on their own and developed the only console to ever truly challenge
and win against Nintendo and the rest is history. But it is most definitely not that simple. The story actually begins
years before the PlayStation ever saw the light of day. Ken Kutaragi, a hardware
engineer inside Sony, believed deeply in the
untapped potential of gaming. However in the 1980s, Sony's focus was firmly
on consumer electronics and entertainment, not toys. It seems wild in hindsight, but video games were still
seen by many as a niche market. Undeterred, Kutaragi took a gamble that would change everything, he embarked on his secret project without letting most of
senior Sony management know, which is always a really smart idea for furthering your career. He developed an advanced audio chip for Nintendo's upcoming
Super Nintendo console. Now the original NES (Super
Mario music playing) was capable of making some iconic sounds and music, but there was clearly
room for huge improvement. (Super Mario music playing) It's hard to understate just how much of a bold move this was within the rigid corporate
structure of Sony. However, Kutaragi's gamble
paid off spectacularly. Not only did his sound chip
become a core component of the Super Nintendo, but it also served as a proof of concept. The success made Sony executives realize that gaming could actually
be a lucrative venture. It's important to set the stage here, by 1990, the Japanese economy was booming and there was a real sense of optimism, especially among Japanese
electronics manufacturers who were newly flush
with cash and confidence. These companies began looking
beyond traditional electronics for what would be the next big thing. The growing video game industry suddenly looked like the perfect prospect. Fueled by the success of Nintendo's NES and the rising popularity
of home computers, video games were growing quickly and captivating a wider
audience than just kids. It was an easy pitch, tech giants like Sony saw an opportunity to leverage their expertise in both hardware and
software, not to mention doing something with those
newfound piles of cash to carve out their own
slice of this gaming pie. This wasn't just about profit either, there was a real incentive
to show the world that you were the top
tech company in the world and video games really did represent the cutting edge of technology. At the time, the landscape was largely
dominated by two companies, Sega and Nintendo. Their rivalry was the beginning
of the first console war that has shaped so much of gaming since. After the success of the original NES, Sega fired the first
shot with the Mega Drive, also known as the Genesis
inside of North America. It's edgy marketing and
faster paced titles like Sonic were quote unquote cool, and titles like Mortal Kombat brought all the blood and violence that you would not find
on a Nintendo console. In comparison, the Super Nintendo, with its bright and vibrant graphics and classic titles like Super Mario World was a huge leap forward over the NES, but we were living in
a world of Nintendon't. There was one clear
winner in the cool factor and it was Sega. And yet a major disruptor
loomed on the horizon, the advent of 3D. Well not brand new, I mean games like Starfox
on the Super Nintendo had proved that 3D was
possible on consoles, but the technology very much
remained in its infancy. In the arcades, Sega really
was at the forefront. Their Model one and
Model two arcade boards showcase the potential of 3D gaming. We're talking titles like Virtual Fighter, which wow with its polygonal fighters and Daytona USA in 1993,
which absolutely blew minds with its smooth visuals and
realistic racing experience. Well mostly realistic at least. These arcade experiences
gave gamers a taste of the next generation of gaming, fueling the appetite for
true 3D gaming in the home. The race was on to bring immersive polygon based worlds to the living room, and Sony had one more major
weapon in its arsenal, the CD. Co-developed with
Philips in the early eighties, the CD format was huge
for the music industry. And by the 1990s, CD
manufacturing costs were dropping, making the tech attractive for gaming. Compared to cartridges, CDs offered way more storage
for high quality audio and even full motion video, although maybe the less
said about that, the better back in the early days. Yikes. The potential was clear, but it took a while to get started. Sega took the first major
step with the Sega CD, an add-on for the Mega
Drive released in 1992. While it showcased the
potential of CD based gaming, titles were often seen as
expensive and gimmicky, not really showing off
the formats capabilities. It also didn't help that
it was very expensive, at $299 or $657 adjusted for inflation. Yeah, no wonder it didn't take off as an add-on for a console
you already had to own anyway. Despite this less than amazing start, there was a reason why
people expected CD tech to be the next generation, and Sony were arguably positioned better than pretty much anyone else to bring that shiny optical
disc to gamers everywhere. Fueled with the success
of Kutaragi's gamble with the Super Nintendo sound chip, Sony were finally
convinced to dip their toes deeper into the world of gaming. A small dedicated team led
by Kutaragi within Sony began exploring the concept
of a standalone console designed to push the
boundaries of 3D rendering. This was the beginning of what would eventually
become the PlayStation project. With the opportunity of the CD format, Sony wanted a partnership to give them a foothold
in the gaming space. The history with Nintendo
made them a natural fit. The initial collaboration focused on creating a CD-ROM add-on for the wildly popular Super Nintendo. This seemed like a win-win scenario, Nintendo would gain extended
capabilities for their console while Sony would secure their entry into the console market. And so it was. All this was announced
by Sony at CES of 1991. And the very next day, Nintendo announced that instead they were partnering with Philips. Now can we just take a minute? Can you just imagine something
like this happening today? It's as if Sony announced that the Switch was getting support for PS5 games, and then the next day Nintendo goes, "Nah, nevermind. We're just
gonna run Android games". Look, it's absolutely wild. So what went wrong? Well it seems that behind the
scenes tensions were brewing. The exact terms of this deal are still a little hazy even today, but supposedly, Nintendo
executives grew uncomfortable with the terms of the deal, which would've given
Sony considerable control over not only licensing, but also development for CD based games. Additionally, there were concerns that the proposed Nintendo PlayStation leaned too heavily on Sony's branding, relegating the Nintendo part as a footnote for what was probably been
perceived as Sony's new console. Now to show you just how close
this got to the finish line, there were rumors that there was as far as a
contract already being signed, which would make sense if
you're going to announce it, but supposedly it was mysteriously voided by Nintendo's president at the 11th hour. Or I don't know, whatever hour you call it after you announced the
(quaking) thing already. Because remember, Sony has gone on stage saying, "Hey, the Sony PlayStation, it's a thing that works
with Nintendo stuff". And then Nintendo said, "What's up, Philips?". Back in 1991 though, the fallout was swift and it was brutal. I mean think about it, Sony, the company with a
reputation for innovation and being on the top of the tech world felt humiliated and betrayed. Ironically, this public
embarrassment sparked a real sense of determination
within the company, which before this, kind of just treated gaming
like a little side project. Senior executives at Sony recognizing the potential
of the gaming market really got behind the
idea of going it alone, developing their own console to directly challenge
Nintendo's dominance. And boy oh boy did it. With the benefit of hindsight, you can make the argument
that this was one of the biggest decisions in gaming history that directly led to the
PlayStation that we know today. Meanwhile, Nintendo's new
chosen partner in Philips brought out the heavily flawed CD-I, an expensive mess of a console that spawned some of the
worst games of all time. - Gee, it sure is boring around here. - It all set back Nintendo years. Even the successor to the
Super Nintendo, the N64, only shipped a disc add-on way after the Sony
PlayStation hit the market, and it was such a flop that not only did it not see
a release outside of Japan, but many of the games
that were planned for it ended up just being held back for the next next generation GameCube. Whoops. So with all the
backstory for context, what happened when Sony actually
released the PlayStation? With a blank slate to start from, one of the first decisions was on specs. From their initial work focused
around a 3D home console, Sony rejected the traditional 16-bit architecture of the era, instead opting for a
cutting edge for its day 32-bit RISC processor. This potent CPU gave the
PlayStation the raw power to render complex 3D worlds in real time, maybe not quite on par
with Sega's arcade boards, but at a price point that
people could actually afford. Alongside the powerful CPU, they equipped the PlayStation with a dedicated geometry
transformation engine or GTE. This was a specialized part of the CPU, responsible for the complex
mathematical calculations that underpin 3D rendering. This was important because
the concept of a GPU wasn't really well defined
in the early 1990s, but the GTE hardware worked
in tandem with the GPU to enable smooth polygon
rendering, texture mapping and advanced lighting effects. It was a fairly powerful piece
of hardware for the time, especially as a first generation effort. So much so in fact, that Sony hid some of the more advanced
features of the PlayStation until much later, including high resolution
modes for 2D content, texture filtering and more. Surprise, surprise, it was also terrific for
playing CDs with audio quality that rivaled some of the very best audiophile grade CD players of the day. As you might imagine,
as a brand new platform from a company with no
real history in gaming, initially a lot of
developers were skeptical. The PlayStation's focus on 3D graphics was such a huge departure from the 2D sprite based games at the time that an all new approach
really was required. I mean, just imagine how big of a complete rethinking of game design was to go from Mario Kart to Gran Turismo. However, developers
quickly saw the potential. The PlayStation's emphasis on 3D opened up enormous possibilities for creating immersive worlds, cinematic storytelling
and gameplay experiences that were just simply not possible on previous generations of consoles. Sony was also smart in making things fairly
easy for developers. The PlayStation's development tools were considered relatively
accessible for the time and Sony actively tried to
attract third party developers, knowing that no console could survive without good games to stand on. This stood in stark contrast with the main competitor at the time, which was the Sega Saturn. Now the Saturn was a very
technically impressive console that ended up borrowing a
lot from the arcade boards. But it was enormously
complicated to develop for with a dual CPU architecture and a high $399 price tag in the US. In comparison, when it came time for Sony to announce the price of the PlayStation, they summed it up pretty quickly. - $299.
(cheering) - I feel like I've seen this clip before. None of this mattered though, both critics and gamers
alike bought in early. Reviewers praised the console's 3D graphics and that $300 price point really helped propel
PlayStation to instant success. They sold 2 million units in the first six months in Japan and had lines out the
door in the United States. Meanwhile, Sega tried
to get the drop on Sony by surprise announcing that the Saturn was going
on sale immediately, except they forgot to inform retailers, some of whom were so mad that they didn't even stock the Saturn. You know, as much as hard work
plays a big role in things, it really, really helps
when your competitors are too busy shooting
themselves in the foot to even compete with you. And with that, the PlayStation was well
and truly off to the races. Throughout 1995 and 1996, gamers really began to see what
the console was capable of. Games such as Resident
Evil, Tekken and Wipe Out all pushed gaming far
beyond what was capable on the older 16 bit sprite based consoles and made the PlayStation
look like a killer upgrade. (PS1 startup music playing) If you could distill my childhood down to a couple of noises,
those are the sounds. Gran Turismo was not only the number one selling
game for the PlayStation, Gran Turismo 2 was like
the third bestselling game. But it's hard to understate just how much of a leap this was. Before this, we had titles
such as Daytona USA, which was a great game,
but it was very arcadey. This was one of the first
times that video games had actually seen a more
realistic racing simulator. And the thing is, Sony did a lot of really
smart moves with this console. You had like proper
actual soundtracks, right? Like you're listening
to CD audio right now. It wasn't just one of those things where it was just some 8-bit
chiptune kind of thing. Like it was like an actually like really, really good soundtrack. I think a big reason why the
PlayStation was successful was because Sony were able
to go into this generation without a sort of playbook for how they needed to do things, right? I mean, you know, for the 3D generation, I mean we're talking about
the N64 for Nintendo, and at that point the game
was very well established, you know, you had to have Mario,
you had to have, you know, obviously some incredibly
cutting edge titles like Donkey Kong, but like ultimately it was a console that had
to be a Nintendo console, that was the mold that had been set. But for Sony, they could kind
of do whatever they wanted. And not only did they start to develop a lot of first party titles
in this sort of generation, but also the third party support was huge because they could actually develop proper cinematic games like Final Fantasy, you could take advantage of the CD format and have proper audio, you'd have so much more to work with. And Sony did a lot of smart decisions, as far as like making
it easy to develop for. Oh no, no! Ghost come back! No past Austin! All right. Look, I could sit here and talk to you about
Gran Turismo all day long. You see the smile on the face right now, that is what this game gives me. But let's also talk about a couple of other games, including, Tomb Raider. Look at this. Look at this, it's a cut
scene in a video game. Imagine that. We're FaceTiming right now. This seems so old, but this is like actually cinematic
storytelling in a video game. We take it for granted today. This is something that the PlayStation was hugely influential
in actually bringing out. Are we gonna go save them? (gun firing)
(animal whining) Ah, is that blood? Oh my God, did you see blood? Oh no. She accidentally shoot her friend. No, we shot him. No! Well we're on our own. So if you look closely,
actually this is a good example, look like on the wall here, you see this kind of like
weird like artifacting? That was one of the downsides
of the original PlayStation. I'm not entirely sure why the PlayStation handled
graphics in this way. It was something to do with the way it handled triangles, I think. It certainly was not ideal, but it definitely gave
PlayStation 1 games a very sort of distinctive look. By the time Nintendo finally
released the N64 in late 1996, the PlayStation had been
on sale for two years and was the dominant gaming console. While technically more powerful, the N64 was held back by its expensive, low capacity cartridges. While the PlayStation enjoyed its cheap, easy to manufacture CDs and the controller situation. Someone at Nintendo looked at the N64 controller and said, "(quaking) it, let's ship it". Or at least I assume so, I don't know
what they actually said but, I'm not sure why. You look at this and say, "Sign me up, captain". Meanwhile, Sony iterated on the already excellent
PlayStation controller with the DualShock, incorporating not only the
much needed analog sticks, but also including a rumble feature, which yes, this might
be my bias showing here, but it ran absolute rings around
the stupid N64 controller. In 2000, Sony released the PS One, a slim redesigned version
of the original PlayStation. This smaller, more affordable model really revitalized the consoles sales and extended its lifespan
deep into the next generation. While the PS One continued
to draw in new players, the competition had evolved significantly. In 2001, Nintendo released the GameCube.  Well around the same time, Microsoft entered the fray
with the powerful Xbox. Despite facing rivals with far more power, the PlayStation's late lifecycle was a period of incredibly
good games for the platform. We're talking about classics
like Crash Bandicoot, Spyro the Dragon and
Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, that did a lot to keep
the PlayStation relevant. It's kind of crazy to think about the
PlayStation's longevity. Its official production
didn't end until 2006, a full six years after the
PlayStation 2's launch. It's no wonder that the PlayStation was the best selling console ever in its time, only to be passed by none
other than the PlayStation 2. But that is a story for another time. If you enjoyed this video, make sure to subscribe to the channel. As I'm sure you can tell, the original PlayStation has a very special place in my heart. (mimicking PS1 startup music) - [Joanna] That did not sound like whatever you just did.
- Yeah. - Would you like to try to do the (mimicking PS1 startup music)?