Malaysia's semiconductor industry 
has seen impressive growth.   Following in the footsteps of its Asian neighbors,   the country successfully built itself up as an 
attractive location for foreign direct investment.   It leveraged that to make a place of 
its own in the semiconductor industry. But that industry has found itself sort of caught 
in the middle. Unable to invest in the future,   the country’s small local cluster of 
semiconductor firms find themselves   stuck in a tenuous place low in the value 
chain. With seemingly few good prospects. In this video, we are going to look at Malaysia's 
place in the global semiconductor industry. Malaysia began its journey into 
electronics assembly in the 1970s   with the second Malaysia Plan of 1971-75.   The plan pushed for the creation of free trade 
zones to generate light export manufacturing jobs. Western semiconductor companies chose 
Malaysia over cheaper alternatives   like Thailand and Indonesia for a few reasons. First, they were attracted to certain aspects 
of the workforce. Malaysian laborers at the   time were considered to be more disciplined 
and English proficient than their neighbors. And second, the government dangled heavy 
tax incentives (10 tax-free years!),   lucrative tariff exemptions, less bureaucratic 
red tape, and a lighter regulatory touch. For example, in a prior video I talked 
about the National Economic Plan   ("NEP") and its realignment 
of the Malaysian economy along   ethnic lines. Go watch the video to 
learn more about it and why it exists. Anyway. Part of the NEP's tenets is the 
distribution of stock to native Malays,   the Bumiputera race. But to ease the concerns of   western industries and kickstart the 
desired export manufacturing sector,   the Malaysian government largely waived the NEP's 
ethnic employment and shareholding requirements. The first major investments into Malaysia 
came from National Semiconductor and Intel.   In 1972, Intel opened its ever first offshore 
assembly plant in the small island state of   Penang in the north. Companies like AMD, 
Hewlett Packard, and Hitachi soon followed.   Penang today remains one of 
Malaysia's core semiconductor regions. Those initial factories focused on assembly and 
testing. Assembly and Testing. What are those? Let us pause for a bit and dive 
into what that is all about. The semiconductor manufacturing processes 
- so not including R&D and design - can be   very broadly categorized into two general 
stages: The front-end and the back-end. The first stage, the "front-end", involves the 
fabbing of the semiconductor wafer. You use   super sophisticated lasers and all to 
print designs onto a slice of silicon.   TSMC, SMIC, and Samsung Foundry with their 
big billion dollar fabs. What those fabs are   largely doing is front end wafer fabrication. They 
are making the wafers that would turn into chips. But how do you get from a pizza-sized 
printed wafer to an actual chip that   you plug into your Asus motherboard? 
Someone has to cut the wafer into chips,   encase them within ceramic or plastic 
so to make it easier to handle,   and test them to ensure quality. These 
steps are called "assembly" (I have also   seen it referred to as “packaging”) and "test". 
Together make up what we call the "back end". Workers have to handle special 
materials or operate a machine.   The work is mundane and repetitive but 
at the same time requires dexterity and   close attention. Furthermore, productivity 
is relatively low. According to McKinsey,   50-70% of the time the employee is waiting for 
another machine to finish what it is doing. Thus historically, back-end processes 
were characterized as being relatively   low-value compared to the front end. 
(Side note. That’s no longer the case   today. There has been a lot of exciting 
things done in packaging in recent years.) It is largely for those reasons that assembly 
and test processes were first outsourced and   off-shored with Malaysia the main beneficiary. 
Now I do want to note that OSAT is a big and   varied industry. Companies in Taiwan offer these 
services too with the largest being ASE Group.   TSMC can do it too but if I recall 
correctly, most of their customers   with the exception of Apple opt to go with 
someone else to handle that afterwards. One can say that this first phase 
of semiconductor investment showed   mixed results. This will be a 
recurring theme in this video. On one hand, jobs were created and exports 
soared. Semiconductors contributed most of   the 15% annual growth in Malaysia's 
electronics and electric industries.   The industry at one point represented 
20% of the country's entire GDP. Exports grew by nearly 70%. In 
1978, Malaysia exported $658 million   of semiconductors to the United 
States. This massive number was   on par with Singapore and South Korea 
and three times larger than Taiwan. Judged on terms of employment, also a green 
checkmark. Between 1973 and 1985, employment   grew by an average of 61% each year. Malaysian 
unemployment rates in the 1970s reached 8%   and poverty was widespread so this growth was 
welcomed. Unemployment would fall to 4% by 1980. Good stuff. But there were items for concern. 
For one, the jobs were definitely not   easy. Working conditions in these test 
and assembly factories were - to say   the least - not great. Plant managers did not 
properly observe safety regulations. Workers,   mostly women, complained of failing eyesight and 
heavy, unfair discipline from their managers. These jobs paid little, though much better 
than other factory and textile jobs available   at the time. The average hourly wage in 
1973 was 13 Malaysian ringgit in Japan,   12 in the US, and just 1.43 in Malaysia. The work hours were relentless. 
The Malaysian government amended   a previously existing labor law 
to allow 24 work hours a day,   done in three shifts. Paid holidays off, sick 
days, and maternity leave were at a minimum. And high unemployment meant that the companies   could lay off bunches of workers 
at will and with little recourse.   Workers complained about being laid off with no 
warning. Physical stress was through the roof. But worst of all was that the 
workers were not learning anything.   From a policy making perspective, a critical 
goal of attracting these multinational companies   to set up shop here was to "upgrade" the 
knowledge and know-how of the native Malays.   You want technology transfer from 
the multinationals to domestic firms. But the way these companies set up their 
factories and stock ownership prevented   such transfers from happening. Workers did not 
see the whole process from beginning to end.   They were segmented and isolated to doing a 
single task with no visibility to anything else.   They were worked too hard to learn anyway. The Malaysian government realized that the 
domestic semiconductor industry was not   upgrading itself and decided it 
needed to recalibrate its policies.   But before it could, the market 
performed a recalibration of its own. The mid-1980s offered an opportunity 
amidst pain. A wave of overproduction   plunged the entire electronics 
and semiconductor industries   into a crisis. This happens from 
time to time in the industry. The down cycle triggered a wave of layoffs and 
consolidation around the world. Semiconductor   employment in Penang went from 19,000 in 1983 
to 18,226 in 1985, to 13,100 in 1986. Workers   came out in force to protest the retrenchments 
and the police had to be called to keep order. But in the wake of this devastating forest fire, 
green shoots. The Malaysian semiconductor industry   survived, burned off its cruft, and got healthier. 
Underperforming companies were taken over.   Smarter companies used the crisis as an 
opportunity to upgrade their operations,   bringing in more automation and 
preparing for when the good times return. Furthermore, the 1985 Plaza Accord forced the 
appreciation of the Japanese Yen, New Taiwan   Dollar, and Singaporean Dollar against the US 
Dollar. I mentioned some of the other consequences   of this historic event in my other video 
about the Bank of Japan's stock purchases. This ate into the competitiveness 
of manufacturer exports in Taiwan,   Japan and Singapore. Exporters in those countries 
thus set out for cheaper grounds overseas.   Many of those companies would settle on Malaysia. Focusing on the recession and seeking to 
take advantage of these secular trends,   the government sought to get people working 
again. They devalued the Malaysian Ringgit   and extended a series of investment tax credits. Combined with the wave of foreign direct 
investment from Japan, Taiwan and Singapore,   these moves succeeded. 
Employment and exports rebounded. But this recession prevented the Malaysian 
government from doing what it had wanted to do   and what Singapore and Taiwan were able to do: 
Upgrade their industry's place in the value chain.   For several years, the government instead 
focused on improving the wages and working   conditions of its semiconductor workers. 
Important but not the greater goal. It was not until the 90s that 
they finally took major steps   towards technical upgrading with Silterra. In 1985, Malaysia's First Industrial Master 
Plan, which spans the time from 1986 to 1995,   emphasized the upgrading of skills, technology 
transfer agreements between multinationals and   domestic firms, and the establishment of 
local suppliers. Lofty goals but the plan's   actual concrete thresholds remained relatively 
humble due in part to the ongoing recession. That same year, the government established the 
Malaysian Institute of Microelectronics Systems   (or MIMOS) with the goal of developing 
an indigenous semiconductor industry.   Begun as a part of the Prime Minister's office and 
spun out into an independent organization in 1993,   it would be Malaysia's answer to Taiwan's ITRI. In 1995 the institute came out with a plan of 
action: the Action Plan for Industrial Technology   Development (APITD). A pathway towards 
building semiconductor national champions   within the chip design and wafer fabrication 
sectors using the Taiwanese industrial model. Malaysia decided that it needed a TSMC of its 
own to diversify away from back-end technologies.   Thus in 1995, MIMOS launched Wafer Technology   (Malaysia) Sendirian Berhad. The 
startup would be later renamed Silterra. But as I said, things got off to a slow start. 
The idea to launch Silterra first emerged in 1995,   but the actual company did not launch until 
2000 with the completion of its first fab   at the Kulim Hi-Tech Park. MIMOS had attempted to 
find a foreign technology partner for the launch,   but there were no takers. Thus, Silterra launched 
with only its own indigenous technologies,   far behind the cutting edge. In contrast, Morris Chang came up with the 
idea for TSMC some time in the mid-1980s   and the company launched less than 3 years later 
in 1987 with a 3 micrometer process just one or   two generations behind the cutting edge. And as 
I noted in another video, the company launched   with full technology participation and patent 
protection from Dutch electronics giant Philips. So like I said, Silterra started quite 
late and a little behind in the industry.   Which is not necessarily a dealbreaker. After 
all, SMIC launched at around the same time too.   SMIC was able to advance their leading edge 
node processes and "catch up" very quickly. However, Silterra lacked many of the 
advantages that SMIC had at the time.   First and foremost, SMIC was 
infused with amazing human capital.   It had TSMC DNA. Founder Richard Chang brought 
over with him a massive team to help him scale   his factories and bring them up to speed faster 
than any other startup foundry ever had before. Human capital as it turns out would be Silterra's 
greatest weakness. TSMC had Morris Chang as its   CEO, an American with extensive experience 
in the industry. SMIC, as I already noted,   had Richard Chang (not related) a CEO 
already on his second foundry startup. But Silterra, to be charitable, did not have 
that. The company's early top leadership lacked   tacit knowledge and experience with 
the front-end semiconductor industry. Again, not an unusual situation. What you should 
do then is to bring in someone who has that   experience. Singapore's Chartered Semiconductor 
brought in expat talent from abroad too. There are   even several talented Malaysian semiconductor 
leaders like Loh Kin Wah, an ethnic Chinese. But for whatever reason, political or otherwise, 
Silterra declined to bring in that foreign talent.   Weak linkages between the industry and the 
universities further stemmed a potential   pipeline of indigenous talent. As a result 
the company failed to make ground within   the ultra-competitive semiconductor industry. 
Today, it is the 16th largest pure play foundry. As is so often is the case for lower-ranking 
foundries, Silterra mostly made losses year   after year. Annual losses got to as high as $100 
million a year according to the Business Times.   From 2008 to 2017, the company's total losses 
were second only to Malaysian Airlines.   In 2019, the company's net profit margin declined 
by 40 percentage points and lost $41 million USD. The losses forced the company to de-emphasize 
R&D and focus on getting profitable. Silterra   was owned by the country's sovereign wealth fund 
Khazanah Nasional, which has its own profit-making   priorities. Thus, the foundry has been the subject 
of sale rumors as early as 2011. Khazanah is not   super excited about bankrolling these losses even 
as everyone recognizes its strategic importance. In 2021, Bloomberg reported that Khazanah 
finally sold a big stake in the firm to a   consortium of Malaysian and Chinese investors 
for $150 million. The investors have announced   a turnaround plan and another capital 
injection to make Silterra great again. Okay so now the present day. First, the good. 
People still want Malaysia's electronic goods   and services. In 2019, the industry made up 
34% of the country's total shipments abroad.   More than its petroleum and palm oil industries. 
And the growth trend is on the up and up with 2019   up from 2015. Penang is responsible for some 
8% of global back-end semiconductor output. There also exists a number of publicly 
listed Malaysian semiconductor companies.   Two are valued at over a billion US dollars: Inari Amertron Berhad, Malaysia's largest 
listed tech company. It does OSAT for   radio and optoelectronics products in nine 
factories around Asia. Inari is the biggest   member of a Malaysian Big Four. MPI, Unisem, 
and Globetronics Technology are the other three. And Vitrox, Malaysia's largest equipment maker 
and a provider of automated testing equipment   for the semiconductor packaging industry. 
Its cofounder and CEO Chu Jenn Wang   is one of Malaysia's richest men. So all of that is the good. Now for the not so 
good. As you might have noticed from the list of   companies I just mentioned, the industry's 
strengths remains in assembly and testing,   the same as it has been since the start. Which 
means it holds low value in the value chain. Furthermore, there are now challenges 
from both the high and low ends.   On the high end, you have companies like ASE 
Group pushing the envelope in chip packaging   and taking share at the high end. TSMC 
is also looking to offer advanced chip   packaging solutions too. On the 
low end, challengers from China,   Vietnam and the Philippines seek to take 
a chunk of that market for themselves. An inability to spend on R&D research or 
find sufficient human capital remains a   prevailing challenge. Indigenous firms 
cannot afford to pay well. So talented   Malaysian scientists and technicians go to 
Australia, Singapore or the United States. To stay competitive in the market, semiconductor 
firms import affordable, talented labor from   abroad, something that the government 
did not allow until relatively recently.   Today, Malaysia hosts the most 
foreign workers in Southeast Asia,   as many as 4 million according to 2013 
estimates. Half of them are illegal. Lastly, the industry is still dominated 
by foreign multinationals. Remember what   I said earlier on about the lack of technology 
transfer? That remains the case to this day.   Indigenous semiconductor OSAT firms like Inari 
are the exception, not the rule. The majority   of the industry remains foreign-owned, a situation 
that the government has not been able to dislodge. Don't get me wrong. We should still admire and 
praise the country for having done this much.   For having created this industry from scratch.   There are many places who have failed 
to even get this far - like Hong Kong.   But we must also acknowledge that there is still 
a lot more ways to go in the journey ahead. Malaysia's semiconductor story is an interesting 
study - a lesson in striking delicate balances.   You need to be able to bring in foreign 
talents to learn fast and gain experiences,   but in a healthy way that makes long term sense.   You cannot let the foreigners run the show. 
And you cannot let yourself get stuck.   You always be moving forward, because there 
is always someone else coming up from behind.