For much of the 1900s, pubs in the United Kingdom 
could only sell a particular brand of beer. They were tied. Tied to a particular 
brewery. The end result of a wildly   profitable vertical integration move 
that created six British Beer empires. The tied house system was an obvious monopoly. And 
in 1989, the British government broke it apart. What happened next is intoxicating. In today’s 
video, we take a swig of the Beer Orders. ## Beginnings As we embark on this video, I am going to presume 
that you have a working knowledge of beer. The word "Pub" is short for "public houses". 
I actually never knew that before. Basically,   pubs are establishments licensed to 
sell beer or other alcoholic beverages. They are descended from the alehouse, 
but are more of a social institution.   This was because pubs were open to 
the public - unlike alehouses - and   lacked accommodation - unlike inns. 
It is a place to relax and socialize. For this reason, most British beer is 
consumed outside of the home. Even today,   85% of UK beer is consumed at a 
licensed premise - which includes a pub. Since beer and alcohol are a lucrative 
revenue source for governments,   pubs have been long the subject of 
licensing. The first dates back to   1495 when Henry VII gave any two magistrates 
the power to suppress an alehouse or pub. Magistrates are ordinary 
citizens who hear cases in   their community. They are not the same as judges. However, when a magistrate 
granted a license to a pub,   they were essentially giving this newly created 
pub a local monopoly to sell beer. And that   opened the doors to corrupt collusion 
between the magistrates and the brewers. ## Beer Act of 1830 This monopoly power and corruption 
had serious repercussions. Local pub monopolies meant artificially 
high beer prices. When you pile on duties   and taxes on top of that, then you 
start to get ordinary people riled up. Concerns over this corruption led to the Beerhouse 
Act of 1830. The Act introduced "free licensing"   to the market - allowing people to purchase a pub 
license if they paid a sum to their local office. It was an extraordinarily controversial 
piece of legislation. The clergy hated   the pubs - seeing them as centers of 
sin and crime. The ruling classes saw   them as facilitating social unrest 
particularly in the countrysides. But it passed, and we can demarcate 
the 1830 Act as the beginning of the   modern British beer industry. In only 
six months after the Act's passing,   24,324 new pub licenses were granted 
in both the towns and countrysides. Interestingly enough, the actual amount of beer 
consumed - as measured by malt sales - did not   increase as much. Just one big jump of 40% from 
1829 to 1831, and then it plateaued from there. What this data point hinted at is that these 
new pubs frankly sucked - drawing criticism   from local authorities. So forty years later in 
1869, the UK passed the Wine and Beerhouse Act of   1869. It gave the magistrates the power to close 
"low quality" pubs based on certain criteria. ## Ties This seemingly innocuous 1869 
law changed the relationship   between the brewers and their retail pubs. Throughout the 1800s, beer brewing sprouted into a   major business. New technologies like 
pasteurization and refrigeration made   it possible for brewers to offer 
a "standardized" beer product. The United Kingdom of the 1800s 
was an exporting power - fueled   by globalization/colonization, 
railways and the steam engine. Fueled by these drivers, the beer industry 
consolidated, with bigger fish eating the smaller   ones. In 1839 the United Kingdom had 48,636 
brewers. By 1880, that number fell to 21,223. Now it was a long standing practice for brewers to 
secure their local markets using exclusive supply   contracts with a retail pub - ties. A pub that is 
so beholden to a brewer was called a "tied house". These ties exist in several forms - an exclusive 
beer supply contract, or loans made to the pub   in exchange for beer exclusivity, or 
just outright ownership of the pub. Ties have existed since at least 1750. 
But one can argue that the practice was   not particularly widespread - though 
exact numbers are hard to come by. Because of the tie's nature, it can 
be difficult to count how many "tied   houses" there were. Speculative 
estimates say that in 1870,   somewhere around 50% of the UK's pubs 
were tied. Probably less than more. ## Changing Times The 1869 Act changed the way the brewers 
felt that they had to do business. First, despite a booming population the number   of pubs was actually shrinking. 
The magistrates quickly exercised   their new privileges with the number of 
licenses declining 20% from 1869 to 1904. And new licenses were rarely granted 
- as each new pub faced considerable   opposition from the temperance movement. Second, simply issuing out a mortgage 
to a tied house or its operator was no   longer enough to maintain its quality 
and avoid closure. The brewers needed   to get more involved in their direct operations. And finally third, beer consumption per-capita 
peaked in the mid-1870s. This was in part due   to the aforementioned temperance movement but 
also because people's tastes were shifting. So to sum it up, by the 1880s the 
breweries realized that their domestic   market was shrinking. And that their 
best tactic to lock in their share of   that market was in tied houses. But the 
supply of such tied houses was limited. Thus the breweries began spending 
massive sums of money acquiring   tied houses in good locations 
before their competitors could. This was fueled by capital raised in the emerging 
stock and debt markets. On October 25th 1886,   Guinness went public, raising 6 
million pounds. The listing was   massively oversubscribed - closed 
in just an hour. Others followed. All the tied houses these breweries acquired 
raised their total assets, which then helped   collateralize more borrowing for yet even more 
acquisitions. The flywheel was now in motion. ## The Tied House Boom In 1892, 76 breweries in England and Wales 
each owned over 100 houses outright. The top   11 had 200+ properties. And if you count leases 
and contracts, that number grows yet further. And this was before the boom hit its peak 
in the late 1890s. Between 1895 and 1902,   the brewers were buying 500 leases a 
year - lending out the entire purchase   price in a surefire sign of an overheated market. Some of these breweries looked more like 
property firms than beer companies. For   instance, in a period in late 1888, the 
Georges Bristol Brewery was acquiring two   dozen pubs a month. They eventually got to 
380 houses owned, and another 120 leased. Pointing out the local monopoly 
that each pub possessed,   CEA Georges was quoted in an 
1889 stockholders meeting: > "a tied trade was an absolutely safe trade, a 
safe dividend paying trade for the proprietors" Prices were craziest in London but even 
in provinces, things got wild. In 1896,   the "Ord Arms" pub was sold. The pub 
was strategically located across from   a new factory by Armstrong Whitworth - a big 
manufacturer - and was sold for 28,100 pounds. To compare, you can buy a good mansion and 700 
acres of land in the same county - the Twizell   estate - for just 25,000 pounds. 
Or about 3.7 million pounds today. By the end of the frenzy in 1906, nearly 
90% of all the UK’s pubs were tied. And the   brewers now had big real estate portfolios worth a 
substantial portion of their overall asset value. ## Consolidated After a series of mergers in the 1960s, six 
very large national brewer-retailers emerged. Those six were Allied-Lyons, Bass, Courage,   Grand Metropolitan/Watney Mann, 
Scottish & Newcastle, and Whitbread. Out of the 220 brewers in the country in 1986, 
the Big Six produced 75% of its total beer. By the late 1980s, 80% of all the pubs 
in Britain were tied to a brewery. The   Big Six by themselves had 
75% of all those tied pubs. The families owning these massive brewers 
were referred to as the "Beerage",   an amusing play on words. The tied 
houses made up a substantial portion   of their overall wealth - about 
65% of their total asset value. ## Investigations There is little argument that the tied 
house system looked quite troublesome. In 1969 - near the end of this 
huge wave of horizontal mergers   and consolidations that produced the 
Big Six - the Monopolies Commission   issued a report saying that the tied house 
system worked against the public interest. The report said that the system restrained 
competition - since any insurgent beer   brand needed to be in the pubs to gain scale and 
that wasn't possible thanks to the tied houses.   Furthermore, it seemed like the modern brewers and 
distributors didn't need tied houses to compete. But the system was complicated. And in the 
end the British government and public at the   time felt that breaking the ties would not 
benefit the pub tenants or the consumers.   So in the end, they relaxed the granting 
of licenses but left things largely alone. ## Changes Afoot
Two decades later, the atmosphere began to shift. Consumer tastes were changing. Spending on 
spirits, wine and cedar tripled from 1968 to   1987, while beer grew by just 15%. Beer imports 
grew, especially in the premium bottled sector. British beer production continued its decline 
- 41.7 million barrels in 1979 to 33.5 million   in 1993. And yet for that, the Big Six 
brewers continued to dominate the market. By 1976, the seven largest beer companies 
had 82% market share - sparking concerns   of a cartel. Another report by the Monopolies 
Commission in 1979 said that the industry had   "the classic conditions for a monopoly which is 
likely to operate to the detriment of consumers". That was because beer prices continued to stay 
high - rising at rates beyond that of inflation,   despite negative trends. The brewers' 
aggressive price strategy - which included   a 4.8% increase in 1985-1986 alone 
- curried consumer dissatisfaction. Combine that with some the highest taxes 
and duties on beer in all of Europe - which   themselves rose by 59% between 1979 and 
1993 - and you have a difficult situation. In 1986, the Conservative British 
government commissioned another   report from the Monopolies and Mergers 
Commission. It was issued in 1989. ## The Beer Orders The report made its point very clear. The tied 
house system was a monopoly and hurt the consumer: > We have unanimously concluded that 
a monopoly exists in favour of those   brewers who own tied houses or 
who have tying agreements with   free houses in return for loans 
at favourable interest rates... The report's primary recommendation - 
and the heart of what we call the 1989   Beer Orders - was that the national brewers 
be restricted from owning over 2,000 pubs. Selling this massively valuable 
real estate portfolio - estimated   to be worth 10 billion pounds at 
the time - seemed unthinkable. After heavy lobbying, the divestment 
order was modified to only divesting   half of the pubs over the 2,000 pub threshold. A second major effect of the Beer 
Orders was to ban ties based on   loans between the brewers and the pubs. 
Existing loans could be grandfathered in. And finally, the Beer Orders allowed the 
tenant-operators of the pubs to sell at   least one beer that is not the landlord's - 
the "guest" beer, which is a funny phrase. ## Resistance As before, the brewers rose 
up against the Beer Orders. The brewers funded a publicity campaign 
accusing the Secretary of State for Trade   and Industry at the time, Lord Young, of 
destroying more pubs than the Luftwaffe had. They argued that the tied house system 
was in the public interest because it   incentivized the brewers to invest 
in improving the pubs' facilities. That money contributed to local 
character. Pub owners unable to   sell other products or cut prices 
competed on amenities - spending that   extra pound for the right ambiance 
they felt their customers wanted. As I mentioned earlier, the pub experience 
is not about getting the absolute cheapest   beer - it is a social gathering place. Pub 
customers will always grumble about prices,   but it's not what they are there for. A 1989 survey by the Consumers' Association 
found that only a small percentage of people   cared about the price of their pub's 
beer - though that same survey also   found that those same customers were 
visiting pubs less because of it. But the British government had tapped a 
popular issue - who doesn't want cheaper   beer? The tabloids buzzed about 
increased competition bringing   down beer prices and more choices in the pubs. And then there was the European Commission, 
which would have banned the tied house system   anyway were it not for the UK's 
"block exemption" regulations. And the EC was soon to review whether the 
Tied Houses fell into that exemption. The   block exemption is supposed to 
only apply to certain critical   industries like food and telecom, not beer. And finally, the tied house system 
was a complex product of antiquity,   which didn't fit the atmosphere of the 
1980s. Thus the government moved forward   in the name of public interest - cheaper 
beers, more choice, and overall reform. ## Shakeup The Beer Orders shook up the industry 
during a generally disruptive time. In the United Kingdom during the 1990s,   real disposable income growth was limited 
especially for the middle and lower classes.   Unemployment rates stayed rather high. And 
house prices went into the stratosphere. The demographic changes of the last 
few decades shifting people away   from beer continued on. The British 
population got older and their tastes   more fickle - with new credible options 
for their nights - like the TV and VCR. And in the midst of these headwinds, the Big Six 
were given three years - 1992 - to sell off what   was estimated at the time to be over 11,000 
of their pubs. The final number was 14,000. The choice then for Big Six was to choose - 
retail or brewing. Which one do you want to do? Several exited the beer brewing business entirely. 
Grand Metropolitan and Allied-Lyons pivoted to   focusing on the international spirits industry 
before the 1992 deadline. The former Grand   Metropolitan in a very complicated 1991 asset swap 
deal with Courage, who bought their breweries. And the latter Allied eventually exited the 
brewing business with a series of transactions,   divesting them in 1992 to a joint 
venture with Carlsberg - maker of   Carlsberg beer - to create 
Carslberg-Tetley Limited. Bass sold off their pubs and then sold 
their brewing business to Interbrew,   the Belgian owner of Stella Artois. Though the British government later overturned   that deal in 2001 - so Interbrew 
eventually re-sold Bass to Coors. Whitbread decided to exit beer brewing 
after 258 years to become a retail and   leisure dining chain - adding thousands more 
pubs and outlets in a 1999 deal with Allied. Later in 2007 Scottish & Newcastle was swallowed   up by two European competitors - Heineken 
and Carlsberg - for nearly 8 billion pounds. Despite this round of musical chairs, the beer 
industry remained extremely consolidated. In 1989,   the Big Six had 78% of the market. By 1995, the 
remaining Big Four - Carslberg Tetley Limited,   Bass, Whitbread, and Scottish and 
Newcastle - had 84% market share. ## Outcomes If the intention of the Beer Orders 
was to build up more independent pubs   by severing that vertical link to the 
brewers, then the Beer Orders failed. What instead emerged were large independent Pub 
operating companies - PubCos. They are kind of   like the theater chains over in America, 
owning and running large numbers of pubs. In 2004, two largest PubCos - Enterprise Inns 
and Punch Taverns - owned over 60% of the pubs   in the UK - essentially creating 
a horizontal monopoly. To compare,   prior to 1989, the two largest of 
the Big Six controlled just 40%. The PubCos were often backed by financial 
players seeking to pull off a rollup play.   And for that reason they struggled quite 
mightily after the Global Financial Crisis,   when land values fell and debt became toxic. 
It is in general a difficult business. One of the widely publicized goals 
of the Beer Orders were to reduce   the prices of beer in the pubs. 
These hopes were frustrated as well. The price of a pint of beer at the 
pub has continued to rise at higher   than the rate of inflation. The 
gap between beer sold at retail   and at wholesale widened in the 
20 years after the Beer Orders. The price dynamics of beer as it goes 
from wholesale to retail turned out   to be much more complicated than first grasped. The PubCos were able to extract wholesale 
discounts from the brewers as expected,   but were not able to pass those savings on. 
In some cases, they added their own margins   onto the pub tenants' beer costs - 
a practice called the "wet rent". There are other reasons for the rising 
margins too. Policymakers have pointed   out the costs of needed improvements to 
the locales, rising wages for bar staff,   and an inability to automate 
either of those things. On the question of consumer choice, that has 
turned out much better. Pubs used to offer   just beer, and only a certain type of beer 
too. Now pubs offer a wider range of beer,   and they have introduced food options. To compete, pubs have started catering 
to certain niches - so now you have   pubs more favorable to families, pets, 
students, non-smokers/smokers, and so on. Unfortunately, the number of pubs 
has continued to decline despite   the population growing through most of the decade. Stressed by high rents, rougher economic times, 
and competition from other locations selling beer,   pub tenants have ditched the job. This trend 
is especially prevalent in the villages,   where as early as 1997 - 38% of the country's 
villages did not have a pub of their own. ## Conclusion
The beer and pub industries continue to evolve. Changing consumer tastes and international 
competition have continued the push towards   consolidation. The top three players - Heineken,   AB InBev and Molson have 
half of the market in 2020. Breaking the tied house system might 
have been unavoidable considering   the forthcoming European Commission 
reviews. But the government perhaps   should have re-examined their assumptions 
of what might happen with the Beer Orders. The lower prices and increased 
competition did not happen - and   for the pubs, removing one dominant 
overseer only brought up another.