♪ Boop boop, boop boop, boop boo ♪ ♪ Bum ba dum ♪ ♪ Ba dum ba dum ♪ - Ah! (laughing) That didn't go well. - [Cameraman] What'd you do? - I fell. Did you not see me fly off the table? - [Cameraman] I thought
you dropped something. Are the Switches okay, though? - Yeah, the Switches are fine. I landed on my hand,
but thanks for asking. Hello and welcome to
our Switch OLED video. Oh wow, look. The seven inch OLED display
also has 64 gigs of storage. Wow. That's double the original
Switch for $50 more. To be fair, even with 64
gigs, you're pretty much definitely gonna need to
pick up a micro SD card. But the nice thing is,
they're cheap and fast. So, there's no reason not to. But I like how this little part of the box just says everything new on it. Not only do you have
the dock with ethernet, but you also have the adjustable stand. Thank you very much for watching. Make sure to subscribe
for Austin's Box Review. Oh my God. Look what I did. Can you see this? Look at this. - [Cameraman] I can't
wait to see what you do when you open it up. - So for context, the Switch
OLED will be available very shortly, for $350. A full $50 more than the original Switch, which is still on sale for some reason. So, these are white, which
I don't actually know, have they ever shipped white
Joy-Cons on anything before? So first impressions,
this looks like a Switch. Now the, oh. (light rubbing) Do you hear that? - [Cameraman] I do hear it. - That fine texture. - [Cameraman] Ooh, that
screen looks great though. - It's off, no it's off. How dare you? - [Cameraman] No, I
know, but the front glass actually looks way better though already. - Okay, we'll do a side-by-side. One of the advantages here is that while the physical dimension
should be pretty much identical to the original Switch, you're getting a much larger display in the same size chassis. So we've got ourselves,
not only an HDMI cable, although to be fair, this
is still an ADP only. So, while the Switch OLED has
seen a number of upgrades, it is not a more powerful system. So you're still looking at the exact same performance and whatnot. Maybe the same battery life too. Now, I'm just gonna put
my cards on the table. I still use the Switch Lite. This, this is the move right here. One of the things that's
always bothered me, and actually we can
just test it right now. That is the, sort of the
rails being a little loose. I'm curious, obviously I've
modified these Joy-Cons, but even the stock ones always have a little bit of flex to them. We'll see how the rails
feel on this new Joy-Con. (rubber crunching) Yeah, it's the same. (rubber crunching) Okay, cool. So anyway, that's why
I like the Switch Lite. Thank you very much for
attending my Ted Talk. Make sure to subscribe and
ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling bell for other nuggets of wisdom, like Austin likes
Joy-Cons that don't drift. - [Cameraman] Ooh, I
like the back of that. - Panda, panda, panda baby. - [Cameraman] Show me the
back, show me the back. - Look at that. - [Cameraman] Oh, I like that. - That's it. - [Cameraman] Ooh. - 2021, the year of the Panda colorway. So. - [Cameraman] Wow. - I broke it. - [Cameraman] Nevermind, I hate it now. - It is nice though. So essentially you've given
up one of the USB ports, but on the inside you
have the AC adapter, HDMI, and you now have ethernet. My first sort of thought though, is how does this kickstand feel? 'Cause the old one was obviously
just garbage town central. This feels much nicer. So I can play like this. Lean it back. Big fan of that. Oh, that's weird. So the micro SD card actually now goes into the side like this. - [Cameraman] It is like a Surface. - [Austin] Yeah, it's very Surface-y. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I'll immediately say
the size of the screen makes a difference. Obviously I usually play on a Switch Lite, which is even smaller, but especially when you compare
this to a standard Switch, this looks a lot better. That sounds great. - [Video Character] The
particle gun is online and ready to fire. - That definitely to me, I mean, I guess I would have to
do them side by side. That sounds a little bit louder
to me than the last Switch. Unlike the old display, which kind of felt like
it was sort of sunken in, this feels like the display
is all the way forward against the glass. Now this is a really impressive panel. (crashing) That's sound though, man. I just keep getting, being
surprised by just how loud it is. All right, we'll turn the brightness down. Oh, wow. Okay. That is perfect for when you're
alone in your bed at 3:00 AM playing Astral Chain. Not that I would know anything about that. Look, I'll just spoil the
rest of the video right now. I can't see much of a reason
to buy a standard Switch. If this exists for roughly $50 more, I'm not saying you should go out and go throw your current
Switch in the garbage. But if you're considering
buying a new Switch and you're not gonna get the Lite, I mean, why would you not
spend a little bit more to get the far better display? You're gonna get the better
kickstand, 64 gigs of storage. You've got the ethernet on the dock. This is clearly a big upgrade. There's no doubt that the
Switch OLED on the surface looks better, larger, much better display, speakers sound great. The kickstand is actually useful. And now of course, as you got
Bluetooth support and whatnot, like there's a pretty
substantial upgrade here. What I'm curious about. We can see what it looks
like on the surface. We can see the aesthetic
modifications that have been made. But you know what we don't know? What lies inside. Is there a fan of this? I could probably stop listening to it and actually see if I can open it up. That seems like a probably better idea. That's a more thorough test. See if there's a fan
inside and see if it spins. So to help take a closer
look at the Switch OLED, and because this is not my Switch OLED. This is where you come in. ♪ Do do do do do do do ♪ ♪ Do do do do do do do ♪ Oh, is that Nicole from SuperSwitchGo! who let me borrow your Switch OLED? Now I'm gonna have you here,
so that I inevitably break it. - I saw you already dented the box. So, we're making good steps here. - Have you been here the whole time? Shall we take apart my
Ultimate Switch first? So have you ever taken
apart a Switch before? - I've taken apart of Joy-Con. - Oh, that's way harder. I will say immediately, just looking at the two side by side, this looks like it's easier to open up potentially to repair it. There's just there's fewer
screws, it looks like. All right. - [Nicole] There we go. - So that is the existing red box Switch with the larger battery. For context, let's take a look
at what's inside the OLED. It's okay. - Okay. (chuckling) - It will be fine. We're doing this for science. - For science. In the name of science. - No Switches were harmed in
the filming of this video. That's totally a lie. (chuckling) I'm assuming I'm gonna have
to take apart your kickstand. I don't know how that's gonna come out, but we'll come back to that. 'Cause that, I mean is
just gonna get in the way. - The kickstand is my
favorite part of the OLED. So, if that's the one part that's broken. - It's fine. There's nothing wrong. Look it's literally, that's it. One half of it's already off. - Yeah, I feel like this is
like when you're in the car with a friend who's a bad
driver, and you just all. No, no, no. Wait, let me finish, let me finish. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. - All right, so now what
I just need to investigate is there's certainly something
that's holding it on. It's about to give up its secrets. There we go. There we go, all right. - It's open. - Is everyone ready? Let's see what's inside the Switch OLED after all that hassle. (vintage video game music) That's not very exciting. So the back panel does
have the hinges built in. So that's certainly a difference. I can tell that already. What I want to see is underneath this. It is.. (hands drumming) The wow. - [Cameraman] Basically the same, wow. (laughing) - You've got the SOC, which
is essentially the same underneath here. You've got a heat pipe, which
I guess does look a little bit smaller, but I mean, it's
not a huge difference. The fan is also, I would say
slightly smaller as well. The battery looks like it's
the exact same unit, HAC003. If you would like your
opportunity to win yourself a completely unopened Switch OLED, Nicole has a very fancy new giveaway where you can win one that
has been completely unmodified by yours truly. What do they need to do to
enter said wonderful giveaway? - All you gotta do is
check out my channel, youtube.com/superswitchgo. - Wow, that's so easy. It's almost as if someone who
opened Switches could do it. Technically, this looks
like a slightly smaller heat pipe and fan. (chuckling) - [Cameraman] Oh, hold on. Hold on, I got you, dude. - I need you to take a
little bit of a deeper dive, and there's only one guy to talk. No, no, get, get, get, get, no, no. We gotta blur this. I gotta blur all this now. I gotta blur this. All right, Steve, from Gamers Nexus, are you ready to duo evaluate the Switch? I don't even know you call this. - I think that's about
as good a word as any. - For reference, this is just
an unmodified standard Switch. This is the original launch model. This right here is the
red box, the 01 Switch. And this on top is the Switch OLED. Oh God, do you see this goop? Look how much thermal paste is
just sitting on top of that. - I think that's where Mario ended up. - So this is the original red box Switch. So we're gonna close it up. And that is 8.98 right here. Let me make sure it's, 9.02, 5.76. Yeah, so it looks like, I mean,
that's about where it's at. - So I would, yeah, I
would just call that a six and the other one a nine. And so then the length of the heat pipe could affect it further. Where it's contacting can affect it. But the size of the heat pipe doesn't necessarily tell us
too much about the cooling, especially because from
what it looks like also, the fan may have changed. - Yeah, so the blades on the original. So you see, so it's
just, it's all uniform. I don't know how many blades that is. We could probably count it, but-- - The fan's different though. For sure the fan's a little different and we don't know if the
fan speed may have changed outside of normal variants either. Did you take it apart past
where it is right now? Have you taken the
heatsink off or anything? - No, so basically both of these have the little metal sorta exterior. - So, that's the big
question I have, is if, 'cause originally it was,
they did a back plate and then the red thermal
putty and then the heat pipe. And then there was another plate under it, and then thermal paste
and then a copper shim, and then thermal paste, and then the SOC. So it worked fine for, 'cause the device isn't that high power, strictly speaking, that's
extremely inefficient, because you're transferring
through all these layers. Every layer is worse. - Having used it, I will say, I, after playing a few minutes of games, I couldn't hear the fan at all. I had it straight up to my ear. So, regardless of what
they've changed here, I don't think there's
any scenario in which it's gonna be dramatically louder. I think it's very, very quiet. - There may be differences
in thermally or whatever, but you get into
territory where it's like, maybe it's measurable, but not noticeable. - You know what might be
more interesting though? Is not using it in handheld, but actually using it in the dock. That might make a little of a difference once it starts ramping
up the clock speeds. - It would also be interesting
because that actually, that helps to control the testing a lot, because now you're eliminating the screen. - All right, my friend. Well, I think there's
only one thing for it. I'm gonna put this thing back
together, ship it off to you, and see if it gets the Gamers
Nexus seal of approval. (chuckling) - Yeah, we'll stick a bunch
of thermocouples on it. - So that, my friends, is
a look at the brand new Nintendo Switch OLED. At first glance, it does seem
like a substantial upgrade, especially with that screen and whatnot. Make sure to stay tuned, not only go subscribe to
Nicole over at SuperSwitchGo!, but of course, our boy
Steve at Gamers Nexus is gonna have much more
in depth coverage of if the Switch OLED is different
in any meaningful way. Because I certainly will have
no opinion on that whatsoever. - [Cameraman] I'm gonna take this. We don't need it anymore. (upbeat music)