It’s Friday afternoon, and you just sent
your last email of the day. Your eyes move around the room and you slowly
exhale, leaning back just one… tiny… inch and [crash]. It’s happened to all of us, and there’s
a simple explanation to why something so clumsy can sneak up on you. I’m Grady, and this is Practical Engineering. On today’s episode, we’re talking about
static stability, or the study of objects at rest, and how far is too far to lean back
in your chair. One thing I love about engineering is that
it gives us the tools to communicate concepts that we already know through intuition. It’s second nature to us that pushing on
this block will cause it to fall down, or that tall, narrow objects aren’t very stable. Even cats can grasp this. Statics allows us to take our intuitions one
step further and answer specific questions like how hard can I push this before it falls
down, or how narrow can this be before it’s unbalanced. Engineers use the same methods to answer questions
like how many trucks can this bridge support, and how heavy does a dam need to be to resist
the pressure of all that water? It all starts with Newton’s Second Law,
which says that a net force on an object will cause it to accelerate. Well, we don’t want our roads, bridges,
dams, and buildings to accelerate. In fact, the job description of a structural
engineer is essentially just to make sure that acceleration doesn’t occur. So to keep things static, we need we need
to balance our forces. Here’s a simple example of how this works. Imagine an object is floating in space…
any object will do. How about a classic square? Applying a force to this object would cause
it to accelerate. If you’re an aerospace engineer, your job
is finished here, but in civil engineering terms, acceleration is bad news. So, we can add another force to make the net
force acting on the object zero. We’ve achieved static equilibrium, which
means we keep our job for another day. Stay with me because now it gets fun. What if I take the two forces on this object
and adjust them so they are not inline with one another. The sum of the two forces is still zero, but
you intuitively know that this object is not going to be static. It’s going to spin. A rotational force is known as a moment or
torque. Here’s another intuition you already have:
torque is the product of the force and its distance from the center of rotation. So a small force with a long lever arm is
equivalent to a large force with a small lever arm. Static equilibrium requires not only that
net forces be zero, but also that the moments be zero as well. And that’s really all there is to it. For an object to be at rest, you simply have
to satisfy these two conditions. Static analysis involves adding up all of
the forces and moments on an object and making sure they sum to zero. So, let’s take our newfound knowledge and
apply it to a situation we’ve all been in. But first we need a chair. We all lean back in our chairs. To recline is human, I think, and leaning
back satisfies not just our need to relax, but sometimes a way to combat boredom. But occasionally the lean is mean, and chances
are at least once or twice you’ve pushed the limits a little too far and fallen right
over backwards. How can we be so clumsy? It turns out that leaning back in your chair
has a very subtle point of no return, and we can see how it works through static analysis. For our purposes, we can assume however hard
your body pushes down on the ground, the ground pushes up to match it. So, the forces in this system are always balanced. But let’s look at the moments. Your point of rotation is the back legs of
the chair, and gravity pulling on your body is generating a moment about this point of
rotation. A human’s center of gravity while sitting
is somewhere in front of their belly button. With no other forces in the system, you can
see that your weight would generate a moment that would rotate your forward. But, when we lean back in our chairs, we use
our feet for support. Your feet and legs create an equal but opposite
moment about the point of rotation to keep you static. One of the first things you learn in statics
is that you can’t push a rope. In other words, a rope can act in tension,
but it’s pretty useless in compression. In exactly the same way, your feet can push
on the ground, but unless you have been bitten by a radioactive spider (or recently stepped
in chewing gum), they can’t pull on the floor beneath you. Watch what happens in our diagram as you continue
to lean back further and further. As soon as your center of gravity passes over
the point of rotation, the moment that it creates reverses. But, unlike before, there is no way to use
your feet to counteract this rotation because they can’t pull on the ground. All of the sudden, our moments aren’t balanced. You can kick your legs forward to try and
move your center of gravity. You can wave your arms to try and counter-rotate
using conservation of angular momentum. You can even try whatever Beyonce used at
the Grammy’s this year. But more than likely, if you’ve made it
this far, there’s no going back. Well, actually there’s only going back. You’re going to fall. It might seem silly, but this is the exact
same type of analysis engineers use every day to design anything that’s meant not
to move. A perfect example is a crane. Lifting heavy objects and moving them about
is just like leaning back in a chair because they both have the same effect of shifting
the system’s center of gravity. Some cranes even have sensors to monitor to
the pressure on the outriggers and make sure that center of gravity never gets on the wrong
side of the point of rotation. Statics is a fundamental skill that is broadly
applicable not only to engineers, but anyone who has anything that needs to stay put (even
if it's just their own butt). Thank you for watching, and let me know what
you think.