Building a few houses isn’t enough to 
make a neighborhood. You also need to   build the roads and sidewalks to connect them. Same with an integrated circuit. You can 
stick a billion transistors on an IC,   but they are useless if you 
cannot also connect them. That is what interconnects are for. They 
are wires for transmitting the electrical   signals between transistors 
and other circuit elements. For over 30 years, we used to make these 
interconnects and their insulating layers   from aluminium and silicon dioxide, respectively. But by the late 1990s, it became 
technically necessary to use new   materials. Big technology transitions 
are opportunities for certain companies   to pull ahead of the rest. In this 
case, that certain company was TSMC. In this video, we are going to look at another one 
of the semiconductor industry's major transitions:   The transition to copper/Low-K interconnects. ## Metallization Since these interconnects are made from metals,   the industry calls the process of 
laying these down "metallization". As a "back end of the line" process,   we do this metallization after we make 
the transistors on the silicon wafer. The step where we produce 
those silicon transistors is   called - what else? - "the front end of the line". So at the start of metallization, we have 
the wafer with its transistor circuitry   etched into silicon. To get our 
interconnects, we then put on layers   of fine metal wiring - called “metal 
layers” - on top of the transistors. The metal layers are separated by 
layers of an insulating dielectric   material. The technical term for 
these is "intermetal dielectric   layers" - which is as literal a 
name as you can possibly hope for. We will also need to cut holes into 
the intermetal dielectric layers   to connect together multiple metal 
layers. We call these cuts "vias". So initially, you might think of 
an integrated circuit as this flat,   idyllic landscape of silicon circuitry. Wrong, my dudes. Today's advanced ICs are 
more like Hong Kong's old Kowloon Walled   City. Layers and layers jumbled on top of 
one another, intricately interconnected. ## RC Delay We just want our interconnects to work. Is that   too much to ask? Apparently 
not, because reality sucks. We need to talk about something known as RC delay.   The "RC" in RC delay stands 
for resistance-capacitance. All wires have resistance in 
them. Resistance impedes the   flow of electrons through the metal - 
degrading the signal and losing energy. A wire's resistance is dependent on its 
material and proportional to its length. So,   thicker, shorter, and wider 
wires have less resistance. And then there is capacitance - which refers 
to objects' abilities to store charge. Because the wires are so physically 
close to each other and have these   insulating dielectric layers in between 
them, the whole setup stores charge. Why? It is because the setup mimics a real-life   capacitor - two conductors 
with a dielectric between them.   This higher, unwanted capacitance slows down 
the interconnect's ability to carry signals. So resistance and capacitance join up to create 
something called RC delay. It is the extra time   for an electric signal to travel through 
an interconnect. The longer the RC delay,   the longer it takes for signals 
to propagate throughout the chip. A way that I have seen it explained is like 
filling a bucket of water. Resistance is like   how fast we can put water into the bucket. 
And capacitance refers to the bucket's   literal size. How fast it takes to fill the 
bucket with water, that is our RC delay. ## Local Interconnects A single microchip has several 
types of interconnects within them. The lowest layers of metal wires to go on top   of the transistors are referred 
to as the "local interconnects". As the name implies, local interconnects 
connect local "blocks" of adjacent elements.   Kind of like the small roads and 
streets in your neighborhood. Since these interconnects don't have to go so far,   we can make them thinner and put them 
closer to each other. But since they are   so close to the transistor layer, they 
also need to be more heat-resistant. We commonly produce these local 
interconnects from materials   like poly-silicon, tungsten or aluminium. ## Global Interconnects Higher up on the chip, we have 
"global interconnect" layers. These are larger, longer connections that span 
large portions of the chip. So you can imagine   that they are like city avenues or even highways 
- connecting together large neighborhood blocks. These global interconnects are also used 
to deliver other signals necessary for chip   operation. Clock signals to synchronize the chip's 
different parts. Power to operate the chip. So on. Because they have to cover 
large distances within the chip,   we want their resistance to be 
as low as possible. So we make   them to be as thick as possible and use 
low-resistivity metals to produce them. In between the global and local metal layers, 
we have medium-distance metal layers. These   have a variety of names like semi-global 
interconnects or intermodule interconnects. So on. ## Logic versus Memory You tend to find more metal layers 
on logic chips than memory chips. Memories might have perhaps 3-5 metal layers. 
There are a few reasons for this. First,   memory has a repetitive, very dense structure 
that doesn't need a lot of interconnects. Second, memories tend to have a bumpy 
structure. There might be things   like trench capacitors - deep holes in the 
silicon used for storing electrical charges. Logic chips on the other hand are 
much more irregular, with less   device density. But it is more important 
that they are connected the right way,   so we generally need more interconnects 
and more metal layers. Sometimes 10-15. ## Materials In the beginning, we used silicon dioxide 
for the intermetal dielectric layer and   aluminium for the interconnects 
- especially the global ones. The primary reason for this is that 
both silicon dioxide and aluminium   are very easy to work with in manufacturing. You can easily lay down a good, 
thick layer of silicon dioxide   in between the metal layers thanks 
to chemical vapor deposition tools. And as for aluminium, the metal has the 
fourth lowest resistance behind silver,   copper, and gold. It also works well with the 
silicon dioxide in a manufacturing context. Here is how we do it, we start 
with a layer of silicon dioxide. Now we lay down a plain thick layer of 
aluminium on top of the silicon dioxide. We then use lithography to transfer the 
pattern over to the aluminium metal layer. And then simply etch away the parts we don't 
need. There, we have a metal layer done. If we still have more layers to do, 
then we need to deposit another layer   of intermetal dielectric on top of the this metal,   polishing it down so that we can start 
again with a smooth, flat surface. Aluminium and silicon dioxide suit each other. 
When you lay down that aluminium metal layer   on top of the silicon dioxide dielectric, the 
two react to create aluminium oxide or alumina. This alumina layer acts like a protective 
sheath, preventing the rest of the aluminium   atoms from diffusing into the rest of 
the silicon dioxide. For the first 30   years of semiconductor technology, this 
process worked quite well until it didn't. ## Getting Denser Over time, chips got more dense. Transistors got smaller. We were 
putting more of them onto a single chip. More transistors means more 
interconnects. Generally,   semiconductor designers scaled the 
interconnect system in two ways. They first shrank the size of 
the interconnects. For instance,   pitch or the distance between two parallel wires. But this raises the electrical resistance of the   wires. More resistance means more 
RC delay, slowing down the chip. So engineers responded by simply making 
the wires relatively taller. But there is   a limit to how much taller these wires can 
stand up over the rest of the landscape. This step-like structure is difficult to 
work with in manufacturing. Just imagine   trying to coat and etch such 
even angles at nanometer scale. Not to mention, denser clusters 
of wires leads to more unwanted   capacitance. More capacitance means 
more RC delay, slowing down the chip. So let's just add more more metal layers right? 
Well, this has its own set of process challenges.   These layers still have to go through the 
semiconductor game loop of depositing thin   layers, transferring the pattern onto 
them using lithography, and then etch. The more stacked metal layers there are,   the more chances we have to mess things 
up. The more chances to mess things up,   the worse the yield will be. And bad yields 
make the chip less economically viable. ## The Big Problem In the beginning, manufacturers and 
designers did not much care about RC delay. This is because the RC delay was smaller than 
the delays from the circuit devices themselves. But as time progressed and chips 
have gotten more complicated, RC delay has become a more significant 
contributor to the chip's final speed. By the mid-1990s it became clear that things 
could not progress the same way they had before.   In 1978, IBM reported that the interconnect 
pitch for the second metal layer - called   M2 - was about 20 micrometers. Remember M2 
is a local interconnect, so the thinnest. By 1994, the interconnect pitches on the highest   global layers - which are supposed to 
be the widest - were 1.8 micrometers. New technological changes convinced the industry 
to use aluminium interconnect technology for one   more generation - the 250 nanometer node which 
started ramping up in 1996. But the end loomed. Looking ahead at the 100 nanometer 
process node scheduled a few years away,   it would take six times as long to 
transmit a signal through a 1-millimeter   long interconnect as it would to send it 
through an equivalent-sized transistor. Lame. They might as well put 
the signals on a mail pigeon. ## Copper & Low-K So we need to figure out a way to 
fix this RC delay issue. The way   the scientists came up was to replace 
the interconnect system's materials. First, we change the low-resistivity metals in the 
interconnects themselves from aluminium to copper. This was an obvious choice. Copper lines have 35% 
less resistance than their aluminium counterparts. Second, we can cut unwanted capacitance 
by changing the material in the insulating   dielectric layer from silicon dioxide 
to another one that carries less charge. We measure a substance's ability 
to store charge using a factor   called "dielectric constant" or "k-value". So this new material needed to have a k-value 
lower than that of the traditionally used   silicon dioxide - 3.9 - it was referred 
to as "low-K dielectric". Creative. Together, a copper & low-K solution lets 
manufacturers do fewer metal layers and   thinner wires - potentially cutting 
the RC delay time by a factor of four. ## IBM's Big Announcement In September 1997, IBM shocked the semiconductor   world when they announced that they had 
successfully produced copper interconnects. They had been working on the problem for 
15 years. As the project - code-named   "red aluminium" - ramped up, a team of IBM 
engineers worked 18 hours a day in secret. Engineer Ron Goldblatt recalled 
standing at the IBM parking lot   at 3 AM, wondering if he should 
bother driving home. He says: > "There was a real period of time when we 
lost all track of time ... they couldn't   pay someone enough to make them do it. It 
has to be a different sense of motivation" It was a triumphant achievement, capped 
by one of the most famous images in   semiconductor history. Six layers 
of copper interconnects. Beautiful. IBM said that they intended to mass-produce 
copper-wired wafers by "early" 1998 - with   the first chips going to its critical 
customer Apple Computer for their Power Macs. ## Copper Problems IBM's announcement was such a big deal because 
copper has some serious manufacturing problems. Aluminium and silicon are good friends,   manufacturing-wise. This is 
not the case with copper. First, copper atoms can quickly 
diffuse into silicon or silicon   dioxide and accumulate there like 
mercury in a tuna. This hurts how   well the chip can perform. They don't 
call it "copper poisoning" for nothing. So the semiconductor manufacturer must 
produce what is called a "diffusion   barrier" to block off the copper 
from entering into the silicon. This barrier has to have special 
properties. It must stick to both   the copper and low-K insulation layers. 
It must not corrode. And we must be   able to easily and evenly lay it down. We 
usually use materials made from tantalum. ## Damascene Perhaps most troublingly, you can't etch copper. Copper does not have a suitable etchant. This 
means that - unlike with aluminium - we cannot   just deposit a layer of copper and 
etch away the parts we don't need. So we have to do something else. IBM decided to   reverse the traditional sequence. 
Rather than subtract, we shall add. We start by first laying down 
the intermetal dielectric layer. Then we do lithography to 
transfer the interconnect   patterns - including the trenches 
and vias - onto the dielectric. After that, we etch the pattern into 
the dielectric layer. So far, so good. Next, we apply the aforementioned diffusion 
barrier - our protection to keep the copper   from slipping away. It is usually made from 
tantalum or some chemical compound with it. After this, we fill our trench with copper. This 
would be done using a method like electroplating   - an electrochemical deposition process that IBM 
knew to be its secret sauce. More on that later. But we are not done! No, no. Before we finish, 
we have to sand off any excess copper and then   apply a capping layer on top of the copper 
to keep it from diffusing where it shouldn’t. Because this method kind of reminds you of the 
fancy metal inlay techniques they used back in   the Middle Ages, this whole roundabout process 
was named after Damascus, the capital of Syria. The damascene method. Sounds complicated 
and unintuitive? It is. Semiconductor   manufacturing is literally black magic. 
All of this just barely works, man. ## The Copper Road Behind IBM's ground-breaking announcement was a 
series of cumulative technological advancements. We needed to have first discovered tantalum and 
tantalum nitride as having good diffusion barrier   properties. Research on this started in the late 
1980s and progressed through the early 1990s. And we needed to have 
invented the damascene method,   which was not particularly intuitive. 
IBM invented this some time around 1985. But the biggest sticking point 
was how on earth were they going   to fill the empty trenches and vias with copper. IBM tried various traditional semiconductor 
manufacturing methods like sputtering,   physical vapor deposition, 
and chemical vapor deposition. All of these methods left defects. This was 
because they steadily applied copper atoms on the   trenches' side surfaces until the copper growth 
met in the middle. You end up with seams or voids. Finally in 1989, a small group came 
across the idea of "super-filling" or   "bottoms-up growth". Here, we fill 
the trench from the bottom-up like   as if it were a regular liquid. This 
was only possible with electroplating. In 1993, a small team at IBM mixed this 
winning combo of diffusion barriers,   damascene, and electroplating to 
produce multi-level copper wires.   This was the first inkling that we 
can use copper instead of aluminium. However, this first damascene production method 
was not economically viable. The throughput   and yields - particularly with the vias - 
did not meet IBM's internal requirements. Another IBM team led by Dan Edelstein 
re-engineered the process recipe. It includes what is called a "dual 
damascene" methodology that produced   both the trenches and vias 
together at the same time. In 1995, this new recipe passed internal 
requirements and IBM committed to bringing it   to high volume production. After two more years 
of development, they made the big announcement. ## Bringing it to the Fab But Announcements of this or that breakthrough are 
a dime a dozen. Show it to me working in the fab. Doing it in high volume would be 
a formidable task for IBM's chip   foundry, which had suffered from 
cost-cuts throughout the 1990s. Since copper can poison the silicon and 
cause defects, we must keep it out of the   rest of the fab. So tools on the copper lines 
- lithography, metrology, otherwise - should   be isolated. A tricky task to pull off since 
many fabs share tools across different lines. Oh also, copper easily dissolves into 
water. Copper in water is quite toxic   so we need to install new waste disposal 
technologies in the fab in order to handle it. ## Rumblings At the time of the November 1997 announcement,   newspapers and others in the media declared IBM 
to some 1-3 years ahead of their competitors. Then just 2 weeks after IBM's announcement, 
Motorola announced in early October 1997 that   they too had produced copper interconnects. 
How did everyone catch up so fast? Before 1989, IBM was the only company in the 
industry investigating copper interconnects.   But after then, the whole industry realized 
the deficiencies of aluminium interconnects   and that something else had to replace 
it. Copper was an obvious choice. People also sensed through IBM's published 
papers and other subtle signs that Big Blue   was working on "something" with copper. 
So the other companies slowly got into it. Motorola started their copper work in 1990 - 
having caught wind of it through their alliance   with IBM for the PowerPC chip. IBM never told 
them anything, but Motorola guessed through   changes that IBM made to the PowerPC design rules 
that some sort of copper breakthrough was nigh. AMD, some time in 1995. They were slow but quickly 
ramped up. And AT&T - Bell Labs - around the same   time. Interestingly, AT&T developed their entire 
copper interconnect stack separately from IBM. Perhaps most surprisingly, Intel didn't start 
their copper interconnect program until 1997. And that is despite their own researchers having   published a paper on using electroplating to 
produce copper interconnects back in 1989. ## Rapid Catch-up So in the few years before IBM's big announcement, the number of published articles on copper 
interconnect technology steadily rose. Much of this research was done through 
Sematech. Sematech is an R&D consortium   that helps coordinate public-private 
partnerships around the United States. Many executives at those companies also have 
positions at Sematech. Inspired by IBM's releases,   they directed public R&D funds to universities to 
study the technology. The findings were released   into the public domain and the semiconductor 
companies hired grad students from those teams. So while IBM tried very hard to keep certain 
details of their work a secret - particularly   the copper fill part of it - the rest of the 
semiconductor industry rapidly caught up. ## 180 Nanometers As I mentioned, the next leading edge node was 180 
nanometers - scheduled for high volume in 1999. This major node saw a large series 
of technical changes. First,   180 nanometers - they called it 0.18 
microns at the time - not only had   the copper interconnects but also another 30% 
reduction in feature size as per Moore's Law. Second, it was about the same time the 
fabs started receiving new 193-nanometer   DUV excimer laser lithography tools. So 
they were learning these at the same time. And third, the 300 millimeter wafer transition 
was supposed to happen with this node too. But   considering all the things that were 
already going on, Intel and the rest   of the industry opted to push that back 
1-2 more years to the 130 nanometer node. In 1998, IBM kicked off the 180 nanometer 
generation with the PowerPC 750CX. The copper interconnects indeed sped up 
these chips from 300 to 400 Megahertz,   leapfrogging IBM to first place 
in the technological race. Coming up close behind them was Motorola. 
They decided to do a half node in between   250 and 180 nanometers, rolling out 
a 220 nanometer node in late 1998. The first chips to come out with 
this were the PowerPC G4 chips,   which powered Apple's classic Titanium 
PowerBook G4 and iBook G4 laptops. It is important to note that the semiconductor 
manufacturing industry had far more players back   then. Everyone had their own variant 
of the 180 nanometer "generation",   and so people picked and chose what parts of the 
spec they wanted to adopt for their own variant. An example of this is that Intel's 180 nanometer 
process did not use copper interconnects. This was   for two reasons. First, like I mentioned 
earlier, they were late to copper. And second, Intel needed a process that they can 
scale - rapidly scale - to massive quantities   for their PC CPU monopoly. About 112,000 
200-millimeter wafers per month by the year   2000. And at the time there were not enough 
copper tools coming out of the suppliers. Intel would not implement copper interconnects 
until November 2000 with the following 130   nanometer node. And even then those chips had 
just six layers out of the seven made from copper. ## TSMC and UMC Across the Pacific, we have the Asian foundries - 
the largest of which were TSMC and UMC in Taiwan. They had started from even further behind 
the American companies. Until 1997,   they never even seriously considered 
copper. Now they had to very quickly learn. TSMC had struggled with their 250 nanometer 
process, leaving the door open for their fierce   rival. UMC was rapidly catching up. Their 
revenue growth from 1995 to 1999 exceeded   TSMC's - putting the two companies neck to neck 
in terms of foundry market share - 30% to 27%. And critically, UMC was catching up in 
terms of capacity. At the end of 1999,   UMC had 1.7 million 8-inch wafers of capacity 
compared to TSMC's 1.9 million 8-inch wafers. UMC CEO John Hsuan said: > The trends indicate that we will pass TSMC 
in revenue sometime next year ... Right now   it's a capacity game, and if we want to pass 
them, we have to increase our capacity ... > TSMC has stayed fairly 
flat for the past few years,   while we are growing significantly 
... We will catch them very soon TSMC Chairman and CEO Morris Chang wasn't going 
to let that happen on his watch. While ramping   up 250 nanometers, he cycled through three VPs 
of R&D before one guy finally got the job done: Dr. Chiang Shang-yi, who joined in mid-1997 and   worked day and night for 
over four straight months. Hitting the next node - 180 nanometers - 
would require copper, but neither TSMC nor   UMC had any experience in it. How 
were they going to learn about   this? The two companies opted for different paths. UMC decided to join an IBM-sponsored 
research consortium - I believe it   was the Semiconductor Research 
Corporation - to collectively do   research on copper interconnects. So 
they benefitted from IBM's patents. TSMC, on the other hand decided to go it 
alone. A team of six elite semiconductor   scientists led a crash-effort to develop a 
TSMC-only copper interconnect implementation.   The team was Burn Lin, Yang Guanglei, 
Chiang Shang-yi, Jack Sun, Douglas Yu ... And of course, Dr. Liang Mong-song (梁孟松). I did 
a video about him a while back. Go watch it. Both methods worked to some extent. In 
1999, both UMC and TSMC started shipping   180-nanometer chips to fabless customers with 
the top two metal layers made with copper. This lagged behind IBM's 180-nanometer copper 
chips - which had six out of the seven layers   made from copper - but nevertheless it was a 
commendable step towards full copper-ization. ## The Low-K Problem Now I want to shift gears a bit. For a while now, I have been talking about copper.   Copper copper copper. Those of you 
who paid attention at the start,   you might have noticed that I have so 
far ignored one other piece of the story. Copper is just half of the 
interconnect system - the   half for addressing increasing wire resistance. We still need a good Low-K material for the   intermetal dielectric layers for 
cutting down unwanted capacitance. The big problem was that the semiconductor 
industry did not have a really good Low-K   material to replace silicon dioxide. 
Particularly, one that fit well into the   process flow. The materials just kept falling 
apart or failed the reliability metrics. What makes the Low-K dielectric situation so 
tricky compared to the copper situation was   that with copper, we know what we are dealing 
with. Working with copper was challenging,   but ultimately it was just a 
materials engineering problem. But with Low-K we don't even 
know what we need to engineer. ## TSMC Spins Around The semiconductor industry 
tried to do Low-K three times. First at the 250 nanometer node, they doped the 
traditional silicon dioxide with fluorine to   create Fluorinated Silicon Glass, or FSG. FSG's 
K-value was just slightly lower than traditional   silicon dioxide - about 3.5 versus 3.9 - and 
you applied it with chemical vapor deposition. At the 180 nanometer node, the industry 
tried another substance called Hydrogen   silsesquioxane or HSQ. It has a lower 
K - about 2.8. They would try applying   this HSQ material onto the wafers 
using a technique called spin-on. Spin-on is exactly what you might think 
it is. You spin the wafer very quickly   and then pour on the Low-K dielectric 
such that it spreads out over the wafer.   It was seen as a cheaper way 
to produce a good, even layer. The HSQ spin-on technique passed all the internal 
tests, but in high volume production it failed to   scale. Apparently because spin-on combined 
with the high temperatures of fab production   stressed the HSQ layer and caused it to 
distort beyond acceptable parameters. This was a major problem. TSMC 
immediately freaked out and typed   "git reset --hard". Except it wasn't 
that easy in real life. Chiang recalls: > We found out at the last moment, 
after we already went to production.   And then it was around Christmas time and 
we immediately tried to put the FSG back,   so again we worked days and at night, no 
break for Christmas, no break for New Year,   no break for Chinese New Year. All the 
way and under very high pressure ... They were not alone in this grief. 
Texas Instruments suffered through the   same situation as well. And even with all their 
efforts, TSMC still shipped 180 nanometers late. ## The Legendary 130 The next major node after 180 
nanometers - TSMC did a minor 150   nanometer node in between - was 130 
nanometers. 130 would be legendary. Here, the industry expected to have completed 
the copper interconnect transition and also have   a “true” Low-K dielectric layer material. The big 
question again was, what material should they use? UMC, IBM, and Infineon worked together on their 
130 nanometer node variant. On April 2000, IBM   again announces another technical breakthrough. 
They would be adopting a proprietary new Low-K   material from Dow Chemical called SiLK - 
applied again with the spin-on technique. SiLK had a dielectric constant or K-value of 
2.6 and maybe even 2.2 - which would fulfill   fabs' needs for until the 65 nanometer node 
generation. It was a bold technological choice. But several in the industry - including 
Texas Instruments - argued for another path.   TI favored a different Low-K dielectric 
material called "Black Diamond" from   Applied Materials. Its K-value 
was about 2.8, similar to SiLK. The catch was that Black Diamond 
was exclusive to chemical vapor   deposition. You cannot apply it onto 
the wafers with the spin-on technique. Makes sense. It is Applied Materials,   after all. They’ll use CVD to butter their 
breakfast croissants if they had the choice. So the larger semiconductor industry split into 
two over this decision of which Low-K Dielectric   to go with for their flavors of the 130 nanometer 
node. IBM, UMC and their affiliates, SiLK. Texas Instruments chose to go with 
Black Diamond - which sounds like a   fast race horse or a particularly pungent perfume. TSMC as well. In their case, 
literally just because Dr.   Chiang personally swore that he would 
never again touch the spin-on technique. Intel for their part apparently 
chose to stick with the older,   second-generation FSG technique. Again 
because of their larger capacity needs. In the end, the SiLK + spin-on setup failed. IBM 
failed to ship a product with it. UMC's customers   failed to ship a product with it - a technical 
decision with a dear financial and strategic cost. On October 2001, TSMC became the first to ship   130 nanometer chips with both copper 
interconnects and Low-K dielectric. To ensure customers like Nvidia got their chips, 
TSMC offered an alternate FSG dielectric version.   TSMC's primary fabs for this node 
were Fabs 6 and 12 in Hsinchu. It took some time. Yields for 
products like Nvidia's NV30   started off in the teens - but by late 
2002 they got them to 70% and higher. At the end of 2001 - soon after TSMC started 
shipping - UMC signaled defeat. They defected from   IBM and Infineon, dropping SiLK for a CVD process 
from Novellus Systems. It was a costly bad choice. Strangely, IBM said nothing about this 
until 2002. When one of their biggest   fabless customers Xilinx very publicly announced   that their higher-end FPGAs would be 
delayed specifically because of SiLK. Their President Willem Roelandts 
later called them out in a 2003   Business Week interview - saying that 
while IBM was strong in technology,   it needed to improve its manufacturing 
skills and move faster. A loss of face. IBM eventually switched to CVD too. 
Their team defended the SiLK decision,   with their CTO Bernie Meyerson saying in 2003: > Quite bluntly, there were a lot of 
reasons to run with SiLK ... On the surface,   it looked like it had the potential 
to have a lower dielectric constant.   No one else was doing it at the time, and 
we just made a decision. We ran with SiLK > Instead of throwing rocks at us, the 
industry should be saying 'Thanks guys,   you saved us from this' A disappointing close to a promising start. 
IBM Micro's inability to capitalize on its   first hard-won innovative 
breakthrough would cost it. ## Conclusion TSMC's monumental 130-nanometer node set the 
Taiwanese giant apart from everyone else. The Taiwanese government awarded TSMC's 
R&D team - "研發六騎士", or "the Six R&D   Horsemen" - the 2003 Outstanding Scientific and 
Technological Worker Award for their success. For years, TSMC was seen as a simple factory 
for meeting excess demand. In other words,   producers not innovators. People did not 
particularly respect their R&D chops. The 130 nanometer node changed 
everything. From then on,   people in the industry now knew that 
TSMC was a force to be reckoned with.