- This is a brand new Windows XP netbook. And today I'm going to be
answering two questions. First of all, can my childhood dreams of using a netbook actually come true? Which, hopefully the answer will be, I will be happy and
not disappointed at all with this incredibly underpowered
software and hardware. And number two, what is it
like to use Windows XP in 2023? Let's not forget that Windows
XP came out 22 years ago. Oh, I don't like that. I don't like that at all. Well, I did the video. I built a super high-powered gaming PC with Windows XP as a meme. But since then I had not used XP. And obviously, for that, I really just kind of did it for the meme. So, this would be my first time properly using Windows XP in 15 years. (upbeat music) - [Ken] Is there a reason why you're running Windows
XP on your MacBook Pro? - Yeah, as we all know,
Macs supports Windows. If you haven't seen, I got
this device from VIP Outlet, which strangely had basically
a brand new, in-box netbook that is at this point,
well over a decade old. Look, I'm gonna be honest, Windows XP is a very old operating system. And every bit of malware
from the year 2001 on is designed to destroy it. So, I'm a little afraid to
actually put this online. This looks like it's a fairly
up-to-date version of XP. So, let's see here. Performance & Maintenance. Oh, my goodness. Dude, I have not seen these in so long. That's weird how I have
not used XP in so long, and I remember some of this stuff. Oh, we're Service Pack 3 Wow! Wow! So, we've got ourselves
an Intel Atom N450 CPU at 1.66 gigahertz and
0.99 gigabytes of RAM. You couldn't give me one gigabyte? Come on. So, I just like how on the splash screen, it now says "Turn off
Austin's Happy Place." And I will not be doing
anything of the sort, because Austin's Happy
Place stays on all the time. So, I know I have 160 gig hard drive. How much space is actually left? One of the things I'm tempted to do, I know I literally just
got this thing started, but I'm kind of tempted to
maybe upgrade it a little bit. - [Ken] Windows Vista Basic? - No, that's a downgrade. I'm tempted to maybe throw in an SSD, because I think that actually
will help a little bit, even though the CPU is egregiously slow. And I'm also tempted to
potentially upgrade the RAM. So, this comes with one gig, which is actually not bad for XP. I think most of these netbooks
could handle two gigs. - [Ken] Upgradeable RAM, really? - Yeah, this thing is actually designed back when your computers were upgradeable, like, on the back you can get the RAM, obviously, the battery pops right out, and you get access to the the hard drive. I'm not gonna put this online yet. I know it's not actually
what's gonna happen. But I'm mildly terrified
that I'm gonna put it online, and immediately catch it on fire. Oh, should I go on a tour of Windows XP? Oh, look at that little
graphic for the volume. - [Narrator] World of digital media. - Optimized for games and DVDs. Can I play Halo on this? I have Microsoft Works. I think that's, wait... - [Ken] No, Works was, the
level below Microsoft Office. - Yeah, it was, like, the lite 
version or whatever, right? - Yeah.
- Okay. Programs, I've got Excel,
OneNote, PowerPoint, and Word. Let's open up Word. Microsoft Word 2007. So, this totally works. Let's do a little keyboard test. This is a test of... Oh, boy. So, something I never really
noticed about a netbook, this keyboard is pretty small. We actually have a lot of stuff. Wow, we have a ton. We have Windows Live or
the whole suite there. Webcam and video web camera. Oh, my God, wait. Oh, it does have webcam. Oh, I'm gonna open up the webcam. Let's see if the... It works! Okay, we are now recording on this high quality eMachines webcam. I can't wait to hear
what this sounds like. But boy, oh, boy, have I been transported back to 2010? I'm not gonna say shocked. I mean, it's not good. But it's actually not as bad as I thought. It reminds me of the webcam
on the 12 inch MacBook. That was 480p and looked kind of bad. And this is significantly older. Intel Matrix storage console. Games! (upbeat music) Power. (upbeat music) When I die, play this at my funeral. Dude, I used to spend so
much time playing this. I really expect this to
be bad, and it's not bad. It's really not that bad. Netbooks had such a bad reputation. No, no, no, no. I'm just gonna stop stalling. I'm gonna put this online. Here goes nothing. So, this does actually have Wi-Fi, but I'm sure it's gonna
be 801.11g, if anything, or even B potentially. It's not gonna be good Wi-Fi. So, I'm just gonna bypass
that for right now. I will get on Wi-Fi later. But for this initial setup, I'm gonna plug it in via ethernet just to give it it's absolute
best possible opportunity. It's funny, it's such a small laptop, even by today's standards. The fact that we've got ethernet, VGA, two USBs, audio in and out, as well as an SD card slot, actually, not bad. We are plugged in,
unplugged, plugged in... Oh, interesting. It's flickering on and off rapidly. All right, we'll deal
with that in a minute. Why don't we try Wi-Fi? It does see networks. It keeps giving me a notification that it's seeing wireless networks. Let's try that instead. We're online! We're online! Okay, the floodgates have opened. The first thing to do, Windows update. (Austin laughing) All right, Windows update. Please give me good updates. Windows Update was in Internet Explorer. Oh, my God, I forgot about that. Dude, look how slow this is too. (Austin laughing) "When you send information
to the Internet, it might be possible for
others to see that information. Do you want to continue?" No, keep me off the online
space forever, thanks. Here's a problem. We're not able to get
stuff up and running, because our clock is probably way off. What? What time does it think this? Adjust Date and Time. January of 2009. Boy, I wish. This computer currently
thinks it is 14 years ago. Let's update it, and get it on 2023 time. Certificate error, still not working. What is wrong with my certificate here? Oh, wait, that's Google. I got Google running. I need to spend some time
getting my head around, not only just what it's
like to use the netbook, but more importantly, I need to get Windows XP
sorted as best as possible, because I think it's
gonna be a real problem, if I'm trying to use
Internet Explorer 8 in 2023, because this is very vaguely functional. But say I go to, I don't know, what happens, if I go to
youtube.com/austinevans? No, nothing is gonna work. So, I need to spend some
time getting my head around what it's gonna take to... Oh, wait, is it loading? Oh, wait, YouTube's
probably HTML5, isn't it? I don't think Internet
Explorer 8 even has HTML5. This is before that was even invented. To give this a proper try, I'm going to upgrade
what little bit I can, which is going to be adding some more RAM. So, we've got a bunch
of our older SO-DIMMS, as well as throwing in an SSD. I think that's gonna make a difference. We're still gonna be limited
by Windows XP, which is fine. Because again, it's one of those things where Windows XP does kind of work okay. My concern is almost entirely, I just don't want it to get Linus-ed. But on top of that,
having the additional RAM as well as the additional, faster SSD, I think, actually will make
a pretty big difference. All right, let's take a
look at what we've got here. So, first up, I can remove my battery, which is very helpful. And we've got a... Okay, so we have our Wi-Fi card. And we do have the hard drive, which is definitely a SATA drive. That will be fine. What I'm more concerned about is the RAM. So, let's actually see what's in here. All right, inside here
we have a single DIMM. Okay, cool. I can work with that. So, we have a single, Samsung, one gigabyte DIMM, DDR2 6400. Okay, I actually think I might have... Okay, that's some DDR2. So, I'm gonna just try to
load up those two gigs, and see if it works. All right, we've got
ourselves our Atom CPU, our BIOS, which is very old. Two gigs of RAM, look at that. Am I just smart or am I smart? There we go! So, we'll go ahead and boot into Windows. And then, assuming that it all works fine, I'm going to clone this
hard drive over to our SSD. There we go. It loaded into Windows XP, no sweat. (upbeat music) I did that, and I saw the editors adding
the CapCut thing as I did it. Okay, give me that two gigs of RAM. So much RAM! So much RAM! Now let me go ahead, and
pull out our hard drive. Which one is it? Is it tool-less? Oh, my God. It's, like, a tool-less hard drive. Are you kidding me? Well, technically not tool-less, because I'm gonna have to take it out. Look at that. Here is our WD Scorpio Blue,
160 gigabyte hard drive. Now, I'd just like to point out the advancement in technology. So, this is a WD Blue SSD. It not only has
significantly more capacity, but this probably costs, I don't know, $60, $70 when it's new. This costs about $20, and
it is about 10 times faster. So, thanks technology. So, now my friends, let's see how usable
this netbook really is. So, the first thing I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna open up our web browser, which in this case is K-Meleon. Let's give this thing a try. Wow, it actually loads, which I know shouldn't be
all that much of a surprise. But you saw earlier, when I
was trying to use this thing, it would take, like, 45
seconds to do anything. Let's go to Google first, and see how fast that is. Yo, this is an actual usable system. This is an actual usable system. Did you see how fast that was? Let's go to YouTube. Okay, so let's go into the mobile site, which actually is probably not a bad idea. Look at this. Look at this. This is a real... Wait, we've gotta actually
watch a video though. Let's actually watch a video to make sure that this is working. We got an ad! The problem is though... Oh, we're lagging now. Wait, wait, wait. Hold on. Wait, we might not be
able to watch a video. Hang on a second. If I can watch it at, like, 240p, I'll consider that to be a success. What resolution are we at right now? 480p, please. We need 240p. All right, so we're gonna
full screen this now. Can this play actually correctly? Okay, let's give it a second. It's a little laggy. But this is a YouTube video
playing on a netbook from 2010. YouTube existed in 2010, so maybe that's not the most
exciting thing in the world. We'll say that YouTube is somewhat usable. I shouldn't do this. I'm gonna try Internet Explorer now. Oh, it does work. Okay, all right. We'll take that. Let's go to YouTube. Let's see if actually
YouTube works better. Oh, no, it doesn't work. Can I just go anyway? No, and YouTube doesn't even... It just, no. I mean, let me try Firefox. Oh, look at that old school XP logo. All right, let's see here. I know this is older. It actually doesn't look that bad though. Wait, hang on. I'm on Firefox 46. If you wanna download Firefox today, you are on version number 112. I have now updated to version 47. Oh, my God, we're... Okay, we're now updating again. We'll be right back after we download 73 more Firefox updates. So, we are right now on
Firefox version 52.9, and I can no longer perform
updates on this system. So, if you open that up, basically it just says that Firefox, if it wants to load, has ended support for
Windows XP and Vista. So, it looks like Firefox stopped supporting
this around 2018, which is an old enough version of Firefox, which would basically make
me not trust it at all for anything important. But this is at least a
reasonable version of a browser, certainly better than Internet Explorer. I mean, think about it. This computer came out in 2010. Windows XP came out in 2001. And yet, I'm running a
version of Firefox from 2018. 17 years of support. One area where I will say it's
a little bit less than ideal is with the keyboard. So, for reference, on a
decent laptop keyboard, I can hit around 100 words per minute. This one, I am probably
gonna struggle to hit 50. 88 words per minute! What? Wait, I don't understand that. Every time I've used this
keyboard, I struggle with it. I've like... Really? I can't believe I just did that good. I mean, that's better than I've done on some brand new laptops. Now, my friends, it is time to do the thing that I basically have made
this video as an excuse for. We're gonna play some
games on this netbook, specifically the only game that matters. We're playing StarCraft. What, did it just load that fast? Sorry, I'm exiting that. Excuse me? Can we just show that one more time? All right, I'mma load StarCraft, ready? And...is there a cartridge slot? Is this an NES? How did that load so fast? Oh, my God! All right, let's go. I'm ready to go. I'm ready to go. Oh, my God, I have no shortcuts. Okay, to be fair, I definitely spent way more
time playing StarCraft 2 than StarCraft one. But where are my shortcuts? Oh, man, I've gotta remember how to make my keyboard shortcuts. I can't... I've got depot here. All right, we're building a depot. Look at that. Okay, we do have keyboard shortcuts. Can I just go in crushing dudes now? There we go. Suck it, Zerg! So, this runs amazingly, like, legitimately excellent. We're sending our dudes back to base. Should I just send all my SCVs in too? Sorry, I'm getting really
into StarCraft right now. This thing's great. I'm just so happy. This has no right to
work as well as it does. There's two takeaways I have here, one of which is, Windows XP is definitely
not holding up well. Nothing supports it anymore. No one should be using
XP on a regular basis for anything more than playing
some old games or whatever. You really, honestly shouldn't have a Windows XP
connected to the Internet. But if we put XP off to
the side for a second, and talk about the netbook, yes, it's underpowered. But with some very cheap, very simple upgrades that you can do today between the SSD and the RAM, you can do this entire
upgrade for like $30 less, if you find some used components. And it completely transformed this laptop, because when it first came out, people made fun of them that, while they were cheap, they were slow, they were laggy, they could hardly do anything. But if you treat this less as an actual real
computer you're gonna use, and much more so as a
novelty to run Windows XP to type up your old documents, to use MS Paint like the good old days, this is so cool. I'm so happy with this. I'm gonna go crush some Zerg, and live a happy life. Go, go, go!