- Hey guys, this is Austin,
and today we're taking a look at an incredible new gaming set up. The $35 Raspberry Pi 4. But of course, before we get into it, huge shout out to LG for
sponsoring this video. This is the brand new
LG Ultragear 27GLE50, which has the distinct honor of being the world's first nano IPS game monitor with a one millisecond response time. This is really the best of both worlds, as you're getting the
high-end picture quality, which is shared with their Nanocell TVs, but you're also getting the
super fast response time with a 144 hertz refresh rate, HDR10, and it supports not only freesync but also NVIDIA's G-Sync. And of course, to take
advantage of the display, we are using a very
high-end $3500 computer from the Pro vs. Broke series, but that's not all you need for this guy. With a 1440p resolution
and dedicated game modes for games such as first person
shooters, as well as RTS. If you are in need of a monitor upgrade, definitely be sure to go
check out the Ultragear at the link in the description. Now while I might have a
very high-end set-up here, of course, today we're looking at something a little
more on the budget end. So if you guys are not
familiar with the Raspberry Pi, it is an incredibly
versatile little computer. So not only are they dirt cheap, they're also one of the easiest ways to get into learning how to
not only work on computers, but especially when you
get into the Linux side, it can be frustrating, but you also do a lot
of cool stuff with it. So one of the cool parts
about the Raspberry Pi 4, is that well, it supports
multiple displays. Now this year's Raspberry Pi 4 is actually a pretty significant upgrade. So for the same price
as last year's model, you're getting a more powerful
CPU, options for more RAM, as well as a ton of small
but very nice improvements. So at that $35 price, we're
finally getting USB 3.0, which is awesome. We're also getting gigabit ethernet compared to 100 megabit
internet from last year. We still have AC wifi,
you have Bluetooth 5.0, I mean this thing is properly specced. On top of all that we also
now have a USB-C port. One of the really big
upgrades here is on the CPU, the GPU, and the RAM. So, on the processor
side, we're going from an older A53, which are
very small, weak cores, up to a ARM Cortex-A72. Now with a quad-core configuration, they claim that it's up to
three times more powerful, which might be a slight exaggeration. But again, for a $35
computer, we're looking at a sort of level performance, which is not that far off of a lot of pretty decent smartphones. On top of that, the graphics
have also seen a major upgrade. So not only does it now support 4K, but it actually supports
a pair of 4K monitors at a full 60 hertz, and on top of that you can do things such
as decode H265 at 4K60. I mean, it's actually properly powerful. The cool thing is, even
on such a low budget, you're still getting
the full picture quality of these LG Ultragear displays. Now is it powerful enough to say, run super powerful native games? No, because they don't
exist for the Raspberry Pi. What it does allow you
to do is make this thing not only just a little streaming box, but you can actually do
some proper work on it. So with browsers such
as Firefox and Chromium, this actually is a completely
usable little desktop. Now one of the nice things about the Pi 4 is that in addition to the
standard one gigabyte model, for $45 you can get two gigs of RAM, and for $55 you can get
a full four gigs of RAM. Especially once you bump that up, it actually becomes pretty usable. In fact this entire video,
all the notes were written up inside Google Docs using the Raspberry Pi. Now it's not exactly fast, especially when it comes to
things like YouTube playback, where it sometimes struggles
to play a little bit of HD. However, generally speaking, this is a very usable little box, especially considering
just how tiny it is. And of course, it is a Raspberry Pi, so you have all the same
headers from last time, so you customize it with cameras and all kinds of cool stuff. You can get it so small. It is really easy to build it
into all kinds of enclosures, including things like emulation. I've seen actually a lot of
go into like little like, NES style boxes, or even like, a GameBoy. There's a ton of functionality for, again, a computer which costs $35. In fact, actually, some of the stuff that you kinda have to deal with here is very much meant for the older Pi. So things such as Windows, there actually is a Windows
10 version for Raspberry Pi, except it's for the 3 not the 4 yet, so unless you wanna be
Matt and hack it together, you're stuck with Raspbian. However, what is working is RetroPie. What is not working is, it's
on the wrong monitor. I'm gonna (beep) So the cool things about this is that, with RetroPie, we have
a huge variety of games which are playable. Now, previously we did a video on this, the Raspberry Pi Zero W, which at like $10 is one of the cheapest
computers you can buy. However, the issue here is
that it is, well, not fast. And a lot of games you
actually can't run on this. However with the added benefit
of this newer processor, we should be able to
play a fair few games. So let's try Automobili Lamborghini for the Nintendo 64, a classic that I'm sure you're gonna love. I'm gonna say that the performance
is actually pretty solid, but I think that part
of this is just the fact that this game is really twitchy. It's actually kind of fun though. This track's actually pretty cool. Oh, I'm gonna take the shortcut. Shortcut, shortcut, shortcut, shortcut. - (Matt) I love that about
all of the arcade games - (Austin) Yeah! - (Matt) They all have a shortcut teaching you it's okay to cheat. - All right. (Mario Kart theme) Excellent. Yeah audio's definitely not perfect here, but that's fine, cause I'm in fourth, fifth, whatever that says. Man, do I just suck
this much at N64 games? This is embarrassing.
I'm in seventh right now. Oh, this is back when Mario
Kart was actually hard. Whoo! Ah, no! No! No! Get
back here Donkey Kong. Oh my god, what is wrong?
How do I use this stupid? Excellent. So we can
also emulate DS games. I'm gonna turn down the volume. Oh, Matt, am I starting from scratch? - (Matt) Yup - Matt, no. - (Matt) You need to figure
out how to use the touch. - No, I know how to use a stylus. (pokecenter theme) (clears throat) - (Ken) You all right there? - Sometimes. When I get into videos,
I have what is called, a little bit too much fun. Um, should we move on
to something else? Wait. (laughter) That's fine. I walked around it's in (laughter) Shut up Ken. - (Ken) All you did was dance,
you didn't test anything. - I walked around, it's
Pokemon, what do you expect? It, it works fine. Spyro the Happy Dragon.
Oh, I just blew fire. Oh. Although I will say frame
rate, not super smooth. But it is also a PS1
game, some of these games did run at like, 15 frames per second. So something else which is very useful to use a Raspberry Pi
for, is for Steam Link. So, essentially if you have
any other computer available, so right now we have a
Windows PC down here. We should connect it to this monitor and the Raspberry Pi here. In theory, we can open up Steam
Link and it will just work, and we can play all the games we want on our $35 Raspberry Pi. Look at this excellent
connection speed. 65, 70, whoo! All right, we can get
80 megabits per second, which, to be fair, right
now the Raspberry Pi is over ethernet and the
Gaming PC is over wifi, so, sure, I'll take that. All right, we have our Xbox
controller, fair connection. Let's start playing. Okay, so right now this
monitor is running directly from our gaming PC, right? So this is as if we were not
using Raspberry Pi or anything. We can natively go through
here and it's all fine. On this display, this is the output from our Raspberry Pi. So essentially this should
show you what the latency is. So, I mean dude, that's
like, that's pretty good. Like, literally, that's almost seamless. Let's, uh, let's try to play a game. - (Ken) CS:GO is probably not
the most ideal game for this. - (Austin) No, no, this is
actually a good example though. This is like the worst case scenario. Like, if I can play CS:GO
successfully on a Raspberry Pi. - (Ken) Well. - Dude, this is actually playable. Now, mind you, I don't
know if we're getting a full 60p feed to the Raspberry Pi. It's fine, I didn't get a kill. It's fine. (thud) - (Ken) Don't throw the
mouse, what the hell? - I was lining up the headshot
man, I can't get knifed. - (Ken) That's my mouse. What the hell? - Kay. What can we deduce from this? - (Ken) You destroyed my mouse. - Steam Link works fine. - (Ken) You destroyed my mouse. - My skill level could use some work.