The mid-2010s saw a massive buying spree by 
some of China's biggest multinational companies.   Wielding huge pocketbooks, these 
companies bought and attempted to buy   some of the world's most valuable assets. In this video, we look at one of China's 
most controversial corporate hauls - the   German company of KUKA. This purchase 
became intensely political and heralded   a new attitude of suspicion towards Chinese money. I want to start by answering 
a question. Why should I care?   Why does this matter? Am I being 
racist, singling out China? This is what worries policy makers. Large Chinese 
companies are often perceived as being extensions   of Chinese Communist Party policy. This is 
the case even when on the surface they do   not seem to be state-owned. As in, their 
shares are not directly held by the state. This is for several reasons. For one 
thing, 5% of Chinese "private" companies   are under the direct control 
of high ranking Party members.   What "influence" means in China is 
extremely informal and hard to track. Additionally, every Chinese company of a certain 
size is obligated to establish a Communist Party   committee for its members. This is ostensibly for 
the purpose of organizing social events for the   company's employees who are also Party members. 
But it’s kind of hard to take that at face value. And then third, Chinese companies who 
go abroad need the permission of the   government - and thus the Party - to do so. This 
is due to China's capital controls on the RMB.   It is extremely difficult to get money out 
otherwise. These Chinese MNCs started going abroad   at the behest of a stated policy 
- their "going global" policy. On the other side, let us look at 
China's branded 2015 policy "Made in   China 2025" 中国制造2025. Beijing's goal here 
is to move up the industrial value chain   and own the underlying technologies of doing 
so. Not that there is anything wrong with them   wanting to do so. It is entirely in their 
rights to do so. But it is also entirely   within other countries' rights not to help 
themselves get muscled out of their place. Based on these publicly announced government 
policies, it is easy to come to the conclusion   that Chinese companies are acting 
in service of their foreign policy   by acquiring sophisticated, high-end 
technology for transfer back home. Which, if you live in a strictly 
libertarian, efficiency-only outcome world,   might be perfectly fine for you. Money for tech. 
A fair exchange made by two consenting parties.   Freedom to buy, sell, and the like. But 
for a policymaker looking out for their   country's own position (and their own 
election chances), that's a problem. German-Chinese relations had been going quite well 
throughout the 2010s. The weak economic situation   in Europe in 2010 had forced German companies to 
woo the Chinese as a market for their exports. The relationship warmed considerably 
with newly middle-class Chinese consumers   buying German products - especially cars - in 
large numbers. As the partnership progressed,   Germany increasingly aligned with China's 
views on certain items and policies. In 2014, China grew to be Germany's fourth 
largest export partner and second largest   import partner. The value of goods exported to 
China from Germany from 2008-2014 was 74 billion   euro, up 118% over the previous years. 
Imports rose to 80 billion euro, up 34%. Even though there was a trade deficit, things 
were going good enough for the government to   brush aside complaints from German companies 
about the issues of doing business in China.   Especially the technology transfer question. But as 2015 approached, an ill wind blew 
through the Chinese-German marital home. At first, German politicians saw 
Chinese investments in German companies   as an opportunity. Chinese money can 
help take over failing companies,   reform them, and bring them up to snuff. 
In a country with a rather conservative   banking culture, Chinese money could 
help serve as helpful private equity. Then in 2014, Chinese investment 
in Germany suddenly jumped.   Up until 2013, it had been stuck at around 
0.6 billion euro. In 2014, it hit 1 billion.   The next year, 2 billion. And this 2 billion 
figure likely underestimates the actual amount   invested, as Chinese investors prefer to make 
their buys through Luxembourg shell companies. But what alarmed politicians was more what that 
money was going into. Chinese investors were   buying big stakes in Germany's leading technology 
companies. These companies include Avic group   (aeronautic equipment), Krauss-Maffei (plastic and 
rubber goods), or EEW Energy (renewable energy). This is contrast to the struggling laggards 
that German politicians had at first thought   Chinese money would go for. Considering that 
China continued to block European investment   in its own leading technology companies, 
this began to rub people the wrong way. 2016 - the year of Trump's election - would 
see the start of the investment dilemma. KUKA was founded in 1898 in Augsburg, 
Germany. The company started out making   light products and household appliances before 
pivoting to autonomous wielding products.   Over the years, the company gained a leading 
position in the industrial robotics space   with a specialty in automotive. It employs 
over 13,000 people across 25 countries. KUKA robots are in some of the world's 
most advanced industrial factories.   Their customers include Boeing, SpaceX, Airbus, 
GM, Chrysler, Volkswagen, and others. Their robots   are prominent not only in automotive assembly 
but also aerospace, retail, rail, and more. The company's robots have been 
featured in music videos, movies,   and more. One might say that they are 
somewhat iconic. And that the technology   behind their manufacture and operation 
is extremely valuable and hard earned. So is it up for sale? At any price? KUKA had been one of the companies that had 
a large stake purchased by Chinese investors.   Guangdong-based Midea Group 美的集團 bought 5.4% of 
KUKA stock in 2015. Midea makes lighting goods,   laundry and cooking appliances. Their main 
business is in making air conditioners. Founded in 1968, it made $21 billion in 
revenue in 2015. Its cofounder He Xiangjian   today is one of China's richest 
men, with a fortune of $36 billion. Midea is publicly listed on the Shenzhen 
Stock Exchange, and does not appear to have   any direct ties to the Chinese Government. For 
what it is worth, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and   Midea Group vice president Andy Gu have 
emphasized that Midea is a "private company". Midea bought more of KUKA's publicly traded 
stock going in 2016 raising its stake to 10.2%.   This made Midea the second largest 
investor after German industrial group   Voith (25%). They declared that they 
wanted to invest even more money into KUKA,   with KUKA's advanced robotics and 
automation technology being their interest. Then in May 2016, Midea brought out a 
stunning offer for KUKA - 4.5 billion euro.   This is a big premium over the current market 
price, 60% higher than the Feb 2016 stock price. People had concern with this acquisition. KUKA 
robots are used in the world's most advanced   factories. An acquirer could ostensibly get access 
to all of its customers' knowledge and know-how. Midea knew this and unveiled its 
acquisition plan accordingly.   They acquired shares in KUKA slowly, step by step 
in order to dissipate public anger. The company's   management and supervisory boards came out in 
strong support of the deal. Midea had signed   agreements restricting it from "corporate 
reorganizations" and the such for 7.5 years. And of course there was the money. 
4.5 billion euro is a nice payout.   The offer was so high that when the German 
government attempted to shop around for an   alternate European buyer from 
the likes of Siemens or ABB,   they had no takers. European companies simply 
did not believe that KUKA was worth that much. In August 2016, Berlin approved the acquisition 
of 94.5% of KUKA's shares. In the end, even if the   German government wanted to block the acquisition 
it did not have the legal apparatus to do so.   They could not even do a formal 
inquiry into the acquisition   unless it touched on sensitive sectors like 
power and water safety or telecommunications. In the United States, it was a different 
story. In my video about Tsinghua Unigroup,   I mentioned the Committee on Foreign Investment 
(CFIUS). CFIUS is authorized by the law   to investigate acquisitions relating to US 
interests and if necessary force divestments.   CFIUS had blocked Tsinghua from acquiring 
major stakes in American semiconductor makers. KUKA has US subsidiaries so CFIUS got involved. In 
December 2016, KUKA carved out its US aeronautics   subsidiary and sold it to Texas-based automation 
firm AIT Inc (not to be confused with the American   Institute in Taiwan). I must note that Chinese 
law would have also prevented KUKA from holding   this subsidiary anyway as the US subsidiary 
had close ties to American arms manufacture. This carve-out sale appeared to satisfy CFIUS and 
they approved the acquisition in late December.   I will note that this is after Trump's election 
but before he took office. Considering what   CFIUS has been up to since 2016, I wonder if 
it would have approved the acquisition today. The fallout from the KUKA acquisition will last.   On Germany's side, what they saw was a 
Chinese company acquiring really high-end   technology - technology expertise that had been 
built up over the course of a hundred years. In July 2016, KUKA announced a joint venture 
with a subsidiary of Chinese state-owned   military enterprise China South Industries 
Group Corp to help manufacturers automate   their operations. Whenever I see the words "China" 
and "joint venture", I think technology transfer. From the Chinese perspective, there is a bitter 
taste left in the mouth by the whole experience.   They bought the company. They own it and 
everything it makes. They paid hard currency   for it. No German law made it illegal to 
buy automation and robotics technology. Why did Midea have to pay so much more 
than the market price to get this company?   Even the other European companies 
agree that KUKA was not worth anything   near what China offered for it. You can 
reasonably argue that Midea was extorted   out of a massive price premium because 
of a vaguely racist "anti-Chinese mood". It's a fair argument. Midea went 
above and beyond what any European,   American or Japanese acquirer would have 
done so to close on KUKA. It sucks for them   and that sour taste in the mouth - along 
with a much more significant CFIUS veto   that same month - would deepen the 
chill between China and the west. The Chinese acquisition spree would 
come to an end a year later in 2017   as the Chinese government reimposed 
stronger currency controls.   Several large multinationals were ordered to 
dispose of their acquisitions. It is for the   best for everyone, because by then the mood had 
shifted and the US-China trade war had begun.