As a blast of bitter Arctic air poured into North 
America around Christmas Time in December 2022,   weather conditions impacted nearly every aspect 
of life, from travel to electricity to just   trying to get out the front door. But the frigid 
temperatures kicked one American city while it   was already down. For many people, the idea of 
not being able to drink the water in their own   house is unimaginable. But for the residents of 
Jackson, Mississippi, it was just another day…or   twelve. Last August, a flood took out the aging 
water system, leaving nearly everyone in the City   without water for more than a week. Only a few 
months later, that arctic weather spell broke   so many pipes in the city that residents again 
lost access to water, some for nearly two weeks,   continuing one of the worst water crises in 
American history. It’s a stark reminder of the   massive undertaking involved in providing clean 
water, day after day, to an entire city of people   at once and the enormous stakes of getting it 
wrong. What does it really take to run a public   water supply, what happened in Jackson, and 
what does its future hold? I’m Grady, and this   is Practical Engineering. In today’s episodes, 
we’re talking about the Jackson water crisis. Jackson is not only the capital of Mississippi 
but also its largest city. Its water utility   has around 70,000 connections to homes and 
businesses and services about 170,000 people   through two surface water treatment plants. The 
OB Curtis plant is the larger of the two, with   a rated capacity of 50 million gallons per day or 
190,000 cubic meters per day. An intake structure   collects raw water from a nearby reservoir. That’s 
the term for untreated surface water. From there,   two large-diameter pipelines carry the water to 
the headworks of the plant. At the headworks,   pumps send the raw water through various 
treatment processes to clean it up and, ideally,   make it safe for drinking. Closer to downtown, 
the JH Fewell Plant has a rated capacity of about   half the OB Curtis plant. It draws raw water 
directly from the Pearl River downstream of the   reservoir. The City also has a few groundwater 
wells to supplement the surface water system. In normal conditions, clean and drinkable water 
flows from both plants into a network of pipes   and elevated tanks that deliver that water to each 
building in the City of Jackson. This is a public   water supply, something that might sound kind of 
obvious, but that term has a specific meaning.   Because not just anyone can hook a bunch of pipes 
up to customers and sell them water. Water is both   an immediate necessity for life on this blue earth 
and a powerful agent of disease transmission,   so we have rules that regulate those who would 
collect it and deliver it to others. Specifically,   we have the Safe Drinking Water Act, and 
each state also has its own rules that   govern contaminants, monitoring, and public 
notifications. The goal of drinking water   regulation is to make sure that no matter where 
you are in the United States, you can open the tap   and use that water to cook, bathe, or drink, and 
not have to worry about getting sick. This might   sound like a relatively ordinary endeavor, but 
designing, building, operating, and maintaining a   public water system - even for a relatively small 
city like Jackson - is a monumental enterprise   that requires a lot of money, a lot of people, 
a lot of oversight, and a lot of infrastructure. Unfortunately, Jackson has gone without many of 
those necessities for decades, creating issues   in the City that eventually led the federal 
government, specifically the Environmental   Protection Agency or EPA, to conduct an inspection 
of the system in 2020. What they saw shocked them. The City’s water system was in such a 
state of disrepair and mismanagement   that the EPA immediately issued an emergency 
order. Regulation of a public water system   usually falls to the state, in this case 
the Mississippi State Department of Health,   but the federal government can step in if there 
is an imminent and substantial threat to public   health, and in this case, the EPA decided there 
was. The emergency order required the City to   create a plan to fix all the broken equipment 
and bring the system back into working order,   but the urgency was too little, 
and too late. From that time in   early 2020 until nearly the present day, 
Jackson’s water system faced a seemingly   unending cascade of challenges bringing 
to light just how bad things had gotten. In February of 2021, the same winter storm 
that nearly took out the Texas power grid,   hit the City of Jackson too. The unseasonably 
cold weather affected water mains below the   city streets, causing them to break and leak. 
So many water mains broke that the pumps at   the water treatment plants couldn’t keep up. The 
result was the pressure in the system dropping,   in some places so low that they had no water 
pressure at all. In other words, they had no   water. Like it had done so many times before, the 
City issued a system-wide boil water notice. You   may have heard this term before but not quite 
understood the implications. Water systems are   pressurized well beyond what’s needed to move the 
water through the pipes. That’s done for a reason.   High pressure keeps unwanted contaminants out. 
If the system loses pressure, pollutants can be   drawn into the pipes through cracks, breaks, or 
joints, contaminating the water inside. So if a   main breaks or a pump stops working or a treatment 
plant has to shut down, the operator sends out a   boil water notice to affected customers, letting 
them know that their water might be contaminated,   and that it should be boiled to kill any potential 
pathogens before using it for drinking or cooking.   This notice in February 2021 lasted for an entire 
month. Imagine not being able to trust the water   from your tap for that long. But even though that 
particular notice was eventually lifted, residents   of Jackson have lived under a practically 
constant recommendation to boil the water   that comes out of the tap, and that’s if they 
even have any water to boil in the first place. Only a few months later, in April of 2021, an 
electrical fire in the OB Curtis plant took   out all five of the high-service pumps, the ones 
that deliver fresh water into the distribution   system. Again the pipes lost pressure, and again 
a boil water notice was issued, this one lasting   for four days. It would be another year before the 
electrical panel for the pumps would be replaced,   crippling the treatment plant’s ability to 
pressurize the water system. That November,   chemical feed issues forced operators to shut 
down the OB Curtis plant, once again causing   the system pressure to drop. That boil water 
notice lasted another four days. In April 2022,   water hammer broke a pipe in the OB Curtis 
plant, again requiring a shutdown. In June,   filters at the plant failed, requiring yet 
another shutdown and yet another system-wide   boil water notice (this one for two weeks 
while the City worked to fix the problem). In July, the EPA issued a report summarizing 
the litany of problems faced by the Jackson   water distribution system, and the list would 
be impressive if it didn’t represent such an   injustice to the people the system is meant to 
serve. Water mains were constantly breaking. The   City had an annual rate of 55 breaks per 100 miles 
of pipe when the industry benchmark is 15. There   was no monitoring of pressure, meaning the City 
had no way to identify or address problem areas   in the system. There was no map of the system 
pipes or valves, making it difficult or impossible   to implement repairs. Water towers weren’t 
getting enough flow, causing the water inside to   stagnate. Monitoring equipment in the treatment 
plants wasn’t working, and if it was working,   it wasn’t calibrated. And if it was calibrated, 
there wasn’t enough staff to keep an eye on it. For an extended period, the utility 
had no manager, and it almost never   had enough operators to staff the plants. A 
treatment plant operator has to be licensed   and know a lot about chemistry and hydraulics 
and the various equipment used to clean water.   It’s usually a great career because it doesn’t 
require a college degree, the work is rewarding,   and the hours are consistent, but that wasn’t the 
case in Jackson. The City couldn’t pay enough to   keep the three shifts at each treatment plant 
staffed 7 days per week, so the operators that   were there were working lots of overtime, 
and occasionally not being paid for it. Over the course of 4 years, the City had 
issued over 750 boil water notices because   of the numerous losses of pressure. Water meters 
throughout the City were broken or misconfigured,   meaning people weren’t being billed correctly 
or billed at all. In fact, the City estimated   its non-revenue water, that’s the water that isn’t 
being paid for because of leaks or bad metering,   to be 50 percent! Half of all the water treated 
and delivered into the distribution system was   just being lost; it wasn’t generating revenue 
that could be used to maintain infrastructure   and pay the staff. On top of that many of 
the large institutions that should be the   utilities biggest customers, including local 
schools and hospitals, had opted to drill their   own wells rather than rely on the failing 
city system, cutting off even more revenue.   It’s not hard to imagine why the 
system was having trouble keeping up. Throughout the entire year after the federal 
inspection, the City had been in constant   negotiations with the state and the EPA trying 
to plot a path forward to bringing their ailing   water system back into compliance. Biweekly 
meetings that included representatives from   nearly every side of the issue were held to keep 
track of progress, but the progress was slow. In   August of 2022, the OB Curtis plant switched the 
chemicals used for corrosion control, resulting in   a boil water notice that lasted nearly a month. As 
the city worked to get the treatment process under   control, the mayor said in a press conference, 
“Even when we come out of this boil water notice,   I want to be clear that we are still in a 
state of emergency.” Then came the flood. In late August, a deluge of heavy rainfall swept 
across Mississippi, dropping enormous volumes of   precipitation across the state. The Ross Barnett 
Reservoir was already full of water, meaning   all the inflows had to be released through the 
spillway. That swelled the Pearl River downstream,   flooding streets and homes throughout the city. 
You might think a flood would be a good thing   for a water system; after all, a flood is just 
a lot of water. But the problem with flooding is   sediment. Heavy runoff carries soil, making the 
water muddy and much more difficult to treat.   Several raw water pumps at OB Curtis quickly 
failed as they tried to deliver the sediment-laden   water to the plant. And the fraction of water that 
did make it all the way to the plant was still a   muddy mess. Any operator will tell you that slow 
changes to treatment processes and chemical feeds   are best. When there’s a sudden shift in water 
quality that requires rapid adjustments to the   processes, problems are bound to occur, and 
they did. Muddy water clogged filters and   upset the various other processes to the point 
where the plant was utterly unable to treat it,   resulting in a complete collapse of the system. 
The downstream surface water treatment plant   suffered a similar fate. Nearly everyone in 
Jackson lost the ability to use water for   basic safety and hygiene. Schools, restaurants, 
and businesses were closed. From washing hands   to fighting fires to just having water 
to drink, the City was incapacitated. The flooding threw the water crisis into the 
national spotlight. The Mayor, the governor,   and eventually President Biden all issued disaster 
declarations, freeing up emergency resources.   Federal officials and emergency workers flooded 
into Jackson to deliver bottled water to the   residents and help restore the water supply. 
A team of engineers and drinking water experts   worked to tackle miscellaneous projects at both 
treatment plants and most importantly, staff the   facilities. By September 6, water pressure had 
been restored to customers, and a week later,   the boil water notice was lifted. But it wasn’t 
the end of the emergency. The water system was   barely functioning, and the relief team couldn’t 
stay in Jackson indefinitely. An emergency   contract was issued for an outside company to take 
over operations of the water system for a year,   but it was clear to everyone involved that an 
enormous capital improvement program and a huge   influx of cash was the only way Jackson could 
pull itself out of the crisis. The City continued   negotiating with the state, the EPA, and the 
Department of Justice, and in November of 2022,   they appointed a third-party manager to 
take over control of the water system. Ted Henifin, a licensed engineer and 
former public works director from Virginia,   had already been involved in the emergency work, 
and was now tasked with 13 priority projects to   bring Jackson’s system back, if not into perfect 
working order, at least into compliance with the   drinking water laws. He was given broad power and 
freedom from normal contracting rules to hire,   purchase, and contract as needed to get the 
work done, and he said in November that he   planned to wrap up his priority projects 
within a year. And then the cold came. The Christmas polar vortex event created a 
repeat of February 2021, cracking water mains   with freezing weather, and creating so many leaks 
that the water treatment plants just couldn’t   keep up. Jackson’s reliance on surface water 
creates a challenge because, unlike groundwater,   the surface water supply is affected by ambient 
temperature. Freezing weather means chilly   water in the reservoir, and when you’re sending 
very cold water through the underground mains,   it causes them to shrink, and in some cases, 
to break. The cold weather also affected the   chemistry of the raw water entering the plant, 
causing issues with the treatment processes and   forcing the OB Curtis Plant to shut down. 22 
schools had little to no water pressure and had   to move to virtual learning as they returned from 
the winter break. For many, it was the last straw,   and at least one restaurant decided to close 
their doors for good after having no water   pressure for more than 40 days over the past two 
years, and many more days than that under boil   water notices. The Christmas outage had customers 
without water for two weeks in the latest,   but probably not the last event in the 
saga of underinvestment, misfortune,   and utter failure to deliver a basic 
necessity to the residents of Jackson. I talk about the engineering behind catastrophes 
like this, but in so many cases, it’s impossible   to ignore the larger issues driving the story. 
Like all infrastructure, fresh water systems   require investment. In an ideal world, 
those resources come from the water rates,   the money that people pay for the water they 
receive, so the system supports itself. But,   when those rates aren’t enough, something 
has to be done quickly and decisively,   because chronic underinvestment creates a 
vicious cycle. The infrastructure fails,   the billing system doesn’t work, customers 
leave, staff positions can’t be filled,   and things just spiral downhill. So infrastructure 
funding is often supplemented by debt, by grants,   by state and federal investment programs, all 
resources that require more than good management;   they often require politicians. The people 
in charge of the water system in Jackson have   been trying to sound the alarms for years. The 
Mayor even said the city was in an emergency the   week before a flood hit the City that completely 
collapsed the water system. But it took that flood   to convince politicians to free up resources. It’s 
also impossible to ignore the history of Jackson   as a part of this story, including a legacy of 
racism that isolated and separated minorities,   gutted the community tax base, and ultimately 
led to the failing infrastructure we see now.   If you want to learn more about that history, 
there are far more qualified voices than mine   to tell it, so I’ll leave some links 
to the best sources I found below. In January, the mayor of Jackson announced 
that they had secured $800 million dollars   in federal funding to tackle the city’s issues 
with water and sewer infrastructure. Those funds   will take years to allocate and spend, but 
it’s another step forward for a city whose   water system has fallen so far behind. Clean 
water is a human right, and the fact that the   citizens of a major city in the US don’t have 
access to it is more than a shame. I’m sharing   the story because I think it’s important for all 
of us to see the consequences of mismanagement,   disregard, and discrimination and hopefully 
learn from those mistakes so that we can be   better managers, leaders, or just advocates for 
the infrastructure that we rely on everyday. And, actually, I’ve been telling 
stories about infrastructure for   a long time now. If you liked this 
one, I’m willing to bet you’ll like   some of my previous videos as well, 
but if you watch them on YouTube,   you’re going to have to watch a few ads (like this 
one) too. Whereas, if you watch them on Nebula,   you can binge watch my entire channel (if you 
want) without a single interruption. Nebula’s   a streaming service built by and for independent 
creators, like Real Engineering, Strange Parts,   Wendover Productions, and me. Since it’s not 
ad-supported, we can try projects that don’t   work as well on YouTube and fund original 
content that can only be seen on Nebula. I love telling stories like this 
one about the Jackson Water Crisis,   but sometimes the production costs - the 
footage, the motion graphics, the writing and   fact checking - add up in a way that would make it 
hard to justify for a relatively niche topic. But,   subscribers who watch my videos on Nebula 
(a day before they come out on YouTube,   by the way) make it possible for us to bring 
stories like this to life because a third of   that revenue goes directly to the creators. 
The rest goes toward adding new features and   content to the platform. If you click the link 
in the description, not only is it going to   let you watch your first Nebula video entirely 
free, it’s going to give you $10 off an annual   subscription. Get access to exclusive content and 
best viewing experience available on the internet,   and support your favorite creators while 
you’re at it. Just click the link in the   description to sign up. Thank you for 
watching and let me know what you think.