One of the very first documented engineering 
disasters happened in 27 AD in the early days   of the Roman Empire. A freed slave named 
Atilius built a wooden amphitheater in a   town called Fidenae outside of Rome. Gladiator 
shows in Rome were banned at the time, so people   flocked from all over to the new amphitheater to 
attend the games. But the wooden structure wasn’t   strong enough. One historian put it this way: 
“[Atilius] failed to lay a solid foundation and   to frame the wooden superstructure with beams 
of sufficient strength; for he had neither an   abundance of wealth, nor zeal for public 
popularity, but he had simply sought the   work for sordid gain.” When the amphitheater fell, 
thousands of people were killed or injured. That   historian put the number at 50,000, but it’s 
probably an exaggeration. Still, the collapse   of the amphitheater at Fidenae is one of the 
most deadly engineering disasters in history. Engineering didn’t really even exist at the time. 
Even with the foremost training in construction,   Atilius would have had almost no ability beyond 
rules of thumb to predict the performance of   materials, joints, or underlying soils before his 
arena was built. But there’s one thing about this   story that was just as true then as it is today: 
The people in the amphitheater share none of the   blame. They needn’t have considered (let alone 
verified) whether the structure they occupied   was safe and sound. This idea is enshrined in 
practically every code of ethics you can find   in engineering today: protection of the public 
is paramount. An engineer is not just someone   who designs a structure; they are the person who 
takes the sole responsibility for its safety. But if that were strictly true that safety is 
paramount, we would never engineering anything,   because every part of the built environment comes 
with inherent risks. It’s clear that Atilius’s   design was inadequate, and history is full of 
disasters that were avoidable in hindsight. But,   it’s not always so obvious. The act of designing 
and building anything is necessarily an act of   choosing a balance between cost and risks. So, 
how do engineers decide where to draw the line?   I’m Grady, and this is Practical Engineering. 
Today, we’re exploring how safe is safe enough. You might be familiar with the trolley problem 
or one of its variations. It’s a hypothetical   scenario of an ethical dilemma. A runaway 
trolley is headed toward an unsuspecting   group of five workers on the tracks. A 
siding only has a single worker. You,   a bystander, can intervene and throw 
the switch to divert the trolley,   killing only one person instead of five. But, 
if you do, that one person lost their life   solely by your hand. There’s no right answer 
to the question, of course, but if you think   harder about this ethical dilemma, you can 
find a way to blame an engineer. After all,   someone engineered the safety plan for the 
track maintenance without an officer or lookout   who could have warned the workers. And someone 
designed the brakes on that trolley that failed. Hopefully, you never find yourself in such 
a philosophically ambiguous situation,   but a large part of engineering involves making 
decisions that can be boiled down to a tug-of-war   between cost and safety, and comparing those 
two can be an enormous challenge. On one side,   you have dollars, and on the other, you 
have people. And you probably see where   I’m going with this: sometimes you need 
a conversion factor. It sounds morbid,   but it’s necessary for good decision-making 
to put a dollar price on the value of a human   life. More technically, it’s the cost we’re 
willing to bear to reduce risks such that   the expected number of fatalities goes down 
by one. But that’s not quite as easy to say. Of course, no one is replaceable. 
You might say your life is priceless,   but there are countless ways people signal how 
much value they put on their own safety. How   much are people willing to pay for vehicles 
with higher safety ratings versus those   that rank lower? How much life insurance do 
people purchase, and for what terms? What’s   the difference in wages between people who 
do risky jobs and those who aren’t willing   to? Economists much smarter than me can look at 
this type of data, aggregate it, and estimate   what we call the Value of a Statistical Life 
or VSL. The US Department of Transportation,   among many other organizations, actually does 
this estimation each year to help determine what   safety measures are appropriate for projects like 
highways. The 2022 VSL is 12.5 million dollars. Whether that number seems high or low, you 
can imagine how this makes safety decisions   possible. Say you’re designing a new highway. 
There are countless measures that can be taken   to make highways more safe for motorists: add 
a median, add a barrier, add rumble strips   to warn drivers of lane diversions, increase 
the size of the clear zones, add guardrails,   increase the radius of curves, cover the whole 
thing in bubble wrap, and so on. Each of these   increases the cost of the highway, reducing the 
feasibility of building it in the first place.   In other words, you don’t have the budget to 
make sure no one ever dies on this road. So,   you have to decide which safety measures 
are appropriate and which ones may not be   justified for the reduction in risk they 
provide. If you have a dollar amount for   each fatality that a safety measure will 
prevent, it makes it much simpler to draw   that line. You just have to compare the cost of 
the measure with the cost of the lives it saves. But, really, It’s almost never quite so 
unequivocal. During the construction of the   Golden Gate Bridge, the chief engineer required 
the contractor to put up an expensive safety net,   not because it was the law, but just because 
it seemed prudent to protect workers against   falls. The net eventually saved 19 people from 
plunging into the water below. That small group,   who called themselves the Halfway to Hell 
Club, easily made up for the cost of that net,   and that little example points to a dirty truth 
about the whole idea of weighing benefits and   costs in terms of dollars: it’s predicated on the 
idea that we can actually know with certainty how   much any one change to a structure will affect 
its safety over the long term (not to mention   that we’ll know how much it actually costs, but 
I’ve covered that in a separate video). The truth   is that we can only make educated guesses. Real 
life just comes with too many uncertainties and   complexities. For example, in some northern 
places, the divots that form rumble strips on   highways collect melted snow and de-icing salt, 
effectively creating a salt lick for moose and   elk. What should be a safety measure, in some 
cases, can have the exact opposite effect,   inviting hooved hazards onto the roadway. Humanity 
and the engineering profession have learned a   lot of lessons like that the hard way because 
there was no other way to learn them. Sometimes,   we have opportunities to be proactive, but it’s 
rare. As they say, most codes and regulations   are written in blood. It’s a grim way 
to think about progress, but it’s true. Look at fires and their consideration in 
modern building design. Insulated stairwells,   sprinkler systems, emergency lights and signs, 
fire-resistant materials, and rated walls and   doors - none of that stuff is free. It increases 
the cost of a building. But through years of   studying the risks of fires through the tragedies 
of yesteryear, the powers at be decided that the   costs of these measures to society (which we all 
pay in various ways) were worth the benefits to   society through the lives they would save. 
And, by the way, there are countless safety   measures that aren’t required in the building 
code or other regulations for the same reason. Here’s an example: Earlier this year, a 
fuel tanker truck crashed into a bridge   in Philadelphia, starting a fire and causing 
it to collapse. I made a video about it if you   want more details. Even though there have been 
quite a few similar events in the recent past,   bridge safety regulations don’t have much to 
say about fires. That’s because the risk of   this kind of collapse is pretty well understood 
to take a bit of time. In almost every case,   that timespan between when a fire starts and 
when it affects the structural integrity of   the bridge is enough for emergency responders 
to arrive and close the road. Bridge fires,   even if they end in a collapse, rarely 
result in fatalities. We could require   bridges to be designed with fire-resistant 
materials, but (so far, at least), we don’t   do it because the benefits through lives saved 
just wouldn’t make up for the enormous costs. You can look at practically any part of 
the built world and find similar examples:   flood infrastructure, railroads, water and 
wastewater utilities, and more. You know   I have to talk about dams, and in the US, 
the federal agencies who own the big dams,   mainly the Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of 
Reclamation, have put a great deal of thought   and energy into how safe is safe enough. A dam 
failure is often a low-probability event but   with high consequences, and those types of risks 
(like plane crashes and supervolcano eruptions)   are the hardest for us to wrap our heads 
around. And dams can be enormous structures.   They provide significant benefits to society, 
but the costs to upgrade them can be sky-high,   so it’s prudent to investigate and understand 
which upgrades are worth it and which ones aren’t. There’s an entire field of engineering 
that just looks at risk analysis,   and federal agencies have developed a framework 
around dam safety decision-making by trying to   put actual numbers to the probability of any part 
of a dam failing and the resulting consequences.   Organizations around the world often use 
a chart like this, called an F-N chart,   to put failure risks in context. Very roughly, 
society is less willing to tolerate a probability   of failure the more people who might die as 
a result. Hopefully, that’s intuitive. So,   a specific risk of failure can be plotted 
on this graph based on its probability and   consequences. If the risks are too high, 
it’s justified to spend public money to   reduce them. Below the line, spending more 
money to increase safety is just gold plating. But above a certain number of deaths 
and below a certain probability,   we kind of just throw up our hands. This box is 
really an acknowledgment that we aren’t brazen   enough to suggest that society could tolerate 
any event where more than 1,000 people would die.  The reality is that we’ve designed 
plenty of structures whose failure could   result in so many deaths, but those structures’ 
benefits may outweigh the risks. Either way,   such serious consequences demand more scrutiny 
than just plotting a point on a simple graph. All this is, of course, not just true for civil 
structures, but every aspect of public safety in   society. Workplace safety rules, labeling of 
chemicals, seatbelt rules, and public health   measures around the world use this idea of the 
Value of a Statistical Life to justify the cost   of reducing risks (or the savings of not reducing 
them). A road, bridge, dam, pipeline, antenna   tower, or public arena for gladiatorial fights can 
always be made safer by spending more resources on   design and construction. Likewise, resources can 
be saved by decreasing a structure’s strength,   durability, and redundancy. Someone has to make 
a decision about how safe is safe enough.   There’s a popular quote (unattributable, as far as I can 
tell) that gets the point across pretty well: “Any   idiot can build a bridge that stands, but it takes 
an engineer to build a bridge that barely stands.”   But there’s a huge difference between a bridge 
that barely stands and one that barely doesn’t.   When it’s done correctly, people will consider you 
a good steward of the available resources. And,   when it’s done poorly, your name gets put in the 
intro of online videos about structural failures. Putting a value to a human life is a 
complicated dichotomy. On one hand,   it’s practically impossible. The emotional and 
moral significance of life don’t fit neatly into a   dollar amount. And on the other hand, it’s kind of 
mundane. Of course we can’t afford to make every   aspect of the built world unequivocally safe. If 
you think about it, they’re the same reasons why   it’s sometimes hard to keep a personal budget 
or manage your family’s finances: money is this   abstract concept that doesn’t fully capture 
the complexity and emotion involved in human   decision making. For that challenge, at least, 
today’s sponsor Rocket Money has you covered. Rocket money is an app that combines pretty much 
every part of managing your personal finances.   They can't help you weigh the philosophical 
and ethical ramifications of your purchases,   but they can help you categorize and visualize 
them so you don’t go over your budget. Plus,   every app, website, and service uses 
a subscription model these days,   and it’s tough to keep track of the ones you 
don’t need anymore. Rocket Money is really   good at identifying recurring charges, and for a 
lot of them, they can cancel with a single tap or   even negotiate a better price. If you’re like 
me, eliminating a single phone call to try and   cancel a subscription is worth giving a try just 
by itself. The other thing I like is that Rocket   Money pulls from all our accounts. If you log into 
different websites to see your checking, savings,   credit card, car loan, mortgage, retirement, 
etc., it’s a nice change to see it in one place. Manage your subscriptions, lower your bills, build 
a custom budget, and grow your savings all in one   place at RocketMoney.com/PracticalEngineering. 
It's a really cool app and I think you'll like it. That link’s in the description below to get started for free. Thank you for watching, and let me know what you think.