When TSMC began producing chips with its latest 
5 nanometer process in the middle of 2020,   the flagship customer who would 
receive the majority of those chips   was Apple. Apple was fabbing its 
cutting edge A14 Bionic and M1 chips.   They continue to receive shipments to this 
day as TSMC’s single biggest customer. But there was another smartphone chip company 
utilizing TSMC's 5nm lines. Alongside the A14   Bionic was the Kirin 9000, a chip made by 
a fabless company known as HiSilicon (海思). For several short months, TSMC 
delivered Kirin 9000 chips to HiSilicon.   But there was a looming deadline. On the 15th 
of September 2020, TSMC would have to apply   to the Trump Administration for licenses to use 
American technology to keep supplying HiSilicon.   And that is because HiSilicon is the 
fabless chip design arm of Huawei. In this video, I want to talk a 
bit about this mysterious company.   HiSilicon had been TSMC's second biggest 
customer, second only to Apple, and a key   piece of Huawei's beautiful, extremely powerful 
cell phones. Now it is off the TSMC customer list. Now before we get going, I first want to say 
the United States sanctions targeting HiSilicon,   Huawei and other parts of the Chinese technology 
industry are, to say the least, controversial.   Those sanctions are not going to be the 
central focus here, but I will touch on them.   I will attempt to do so in an objective manner. I know a lot of you are going to have 
your own opinions about it. So all I ask   is that you guys leave constructive, 
thoughtful comments and be respectful.   We got enough flamewars out 
there in the internet world. HiSilicon is China's largest fabless designer of 
chips with annual revenues of about $5 billion.   The company as it exists 
today was established in 2004,   but it has roots in the Huawei Integrated 
Circuit Design Center founded in 1991.   That old IC Design Center had mostly 
made chips for Huawei's network switches,   which is a piece of networking hardware that 
connects different devices on computer network. After a 2003 lawsuit by Cisco, Huawei CEO 
Ren Zhengfei resolved to establish a chip   design division so to wean his company off 
American-designed chips. Independent foundries   were making self-designed chips more of a reality 
and Huawei wanted to take advantage of this trend.   Ren gave HiSilicon President He Tingbo 
immense resources to get started. The company's first chip design was a 3G SIM 
card chip. At that time, the market was rich   for entry. But by the time the project had been 
completed and the product was ready, the price   of SIM card chips had fallen from 10 to just 1 RMB 
each. The market's profitability in turn vanished. Undeterred, HiSilicon pivoted to building 
chips for set-top boxes and video surveillance   equipment. And it is in the latter that they had 
their first big customer. Two video surveillance   companies, Hikvision and Dahua, chose HiSilicon's 
H.264 video codec chip for their own products. I previously did a video about Hikvision 
and their own rise to prominence.   Hikvision remains HiSilicon's 
single biggest outside customer,   making the latter a dominant player 
in the IP Camera chip market. ## Kirin In 2009, a year before Apple launched its 
A4 processor, HiSilicon brought out their   first mobile phone processor: The K3. It was 
a low cost chip that targeted low end markets.   Stuff that MediaTek usually worked 
in. Nobody really bought that one. Three years later came the second iteration 
of that chip, the K3V2, which was fabbed on a   40nm process. The K3V2 was a quad-core chip that 
implemented the ARM architecture. Like its Apple   contemporary, the A5, the chip licensed the 32-bit 
ARM Cortex-A9 processor core by ARM Holdings. Do not confuse the Cortex-A9 with the 
Apple A9. I made that same mistake too,   not the same thing. Let me 
explain what this means.   Roughly speaking, the Cortex-A is like a 
starter set and developer kit that hardware   companies like HiSilicon can customize for 
their own use and resale. Kind of like how   MediaTek provides reference designs for finished 
hardware products, but on a more basic level. Incredibly, Huawei announced that 
they would be putting the K3V2,   a second-year product, into their new flagship 
mobile phone: the Huawei Ascend D Quad XL.   By choosing to go with internal HiSilicon designs 
(again, built on top of ARM CPU intellectual   property) rather than adopting Qualcomm or 
MediaTek chips like the rest of the market,   Huawei sought differentiation 
in the same way Apple did. It took courage, so to steal a line. 
But at first it did not pay off.   Buyers complained that the phone frequently 
overheated and consumed a lot of power.   Users nicknamed it the "warm baby". The 
phones as a result did not sell well at all. But HiSilicon still had its telecoms 
equipment business to absorb the losses   and was determined to stay in the mobile business.   HiSilicon hired over a thousand semiconductor 
engineers laboring 996 to make the chips better. In 2013, the company released a new iteration 
called the K3V2e, which powered the Huawei P6   mobile phone. The P6 sold well and that was the 
first taste of processor success for the company. After that, HiSilicon rebranded the 
K3 series to Kirin (麒麟). This name   apparently is in reference to a Chinese 
mythical beast. The Kirin 910 was their   first "System on a Chip" design and integrated 
4G baseband components. It sold a little better. Because HiSilicon builds on top 
of ARM Cortex microarchitectures   and outsources the manufacturing to TSMC, 
Kirin chips' performance in relation to   its competitors depended on being able 
to use the latest versions of the two   in a given year. The chips did improve year 
after year, but progress was uneven and   sometimes fell behind that of competitors 
like the Qualcomm Snapdragon series. The   timing tended to align with when ARM released 
versions of its latest IP cores to licensees. Kirin's rise coincided with the 
success of Huawei's smartphone line.   These high-end phablet phones compete directly 
with Samsung Galaxy S-series phones and are quite   competitive with them. More than a few American 
YouTube tech reviewers have done videos on them.   The Mate 10, for example, used the Kirin 970 and 
would sell over 10 million units over 10 months. The last HiSilicon chips that TSMC could make,   the Kirin 9000 and 9000E, were fabbed on 
5nm and were released in 2020. It had 8   CPU cores and integrated a gigantic 
24-core GPU for image processing. When you add to that an on-die modem, you 
have a large chip die counting over 15.3   billion transistors. Huawei says that this 
is 30% more transistors than the Apple A14,   which is technically true but leaves 
out the fact that it is a bigger chip   overall. Not that it should matter, 11 
billion or 15 billion impresses either way. The 9000 powered the company's Mate 40 and 40 Pro.   You can say that it was the pinnacle 
of HiSilicon (or TSMC's) handiwork. ## Entry into the Server Market HiSilicon's success with the Kirin line 
led it to expand into other chip markets.   In 2018, the company released their first AI 
chip, the Shengteng series or "Ascend" in English.   These AI chips utilize a specialized structure 
to help speed up the training of AI models. But something that really interests me is 
their entry into the profitable server market.   A year after the Shengteng 
launch, HiSilicon launched   a series of ARM-based chips called the 
Kunpeng (鯤鵬), another mythical beast. Like with the Kirin mobile processors,   the Kunpeng chips are built on top of ARM IP. 
They started out as chips for server farms.   The Kunpeng 920 powers the 2,000 Huawei TaiShan 
servers running Beijing's e-government system. But recently, Kunpeng chips have also 
started to appear in Huawei desktop PCs   sold in China. They have a 24-core Kunpeng 920   that favorably compares to Intel's chips 
in certain multi-threading benchmarks. So in a way, HiSilicon is a lot 
like Apple, moving away from Intel.   Unlike with Apple though, this move 
is less tied to the desire for more   in-house control of the product line and more 
about splitting from American technology IP. Another note is that the Kunpeng 
920 was made with TSMC's 7nm node,   so they were no longer available after the 
September ban unless the US grants a license.   They might be a good candidate for 
that native N+1 SMIC process node   that supposedly compares favorably with the 
TSMC 7nm. We should stay tuned for that. It goes without saying that the US 
technology ban on Huawei and HiSilicon   is crippling, but it won't kill 
the company. For one thing,   Huawei probably has ample resources to stay 
afloat including some form of state backing. Furthermore, the company has a history 
of persevering in the face of difficulty.   Their founding story continually 
emphasizes "struggle" or 斗争. The   idea of fighting and struggling for 
survival despite overwhelming odds.   I am pretty sure that they are going to see 
this as yet another obstacle to overcome. But will it hit their ability to release 
new, competitive products? Let us look at   the example of their latest mobile chip. Yes, 
the Kirin 9000 is a fantastic achievement,   the second 5 nanometer chip for the world market. 
That's amazing, but we all stand on the shoulders   of giants. And the two giants that HiSilicon 
are standing on are TSMC and Arm Holdings. The Trump administration cut HiSilicon's access 
to TSMC and tried to cut its access to Arm. Arm   stopped for a bit but re-established a connection 
after it decided that its property was of United   Kingdom origin. Not sure what happens after 
Nvidia buys them though. Maybe China will have   something to say about that purchase like how it 
nixed the attempted purchase of NXP by Qualcomm. To end, I don't really think that 
the Trump administration was hoping   to kill off HiSilicon. A few bans 
will do nothing and they know it. Rather, I get the sense that they wanted 
to genuinely cut HiSilicon off from the   benefits of western technology. The history of how 
countries have gotten ahead in technology races   has many examples of one first learning from 
(or stealing from) the former leader. And yes,   that includes America too. Ending that 
connection was a critical aspect of the   Trump administration's China strategy. We shall 
see if his successor continues with that strategy   in the years to come. And 
what that means for HiSilicon.