Today I want to tell you about what's currently my 
favourite number. So my favourite number changes a   lot but for now it is 288. You might be looking 
at that and thinking, what's special about 288?   Don't worry we'll get there, but first we 
need to rewind a bit and talk a bit about   factorials - specifically super factorials. Now 
I know regular Numberphile viewers will have seen   factorials before but super factorials might 
be a bit new. But let's start from the basics:   so factorial we'll write n factorial and it's the 
product of n- so n times (n - 1) times... and so   on times 2 times 1. So it's the product of n 
and all the integers less than n. So that's   the factorial, but there are other things we can 
do with factorials as well. So there's something   called a double factorial and what we do here is 
rather than multiplying everything we multiply   every other term. So it'll be n and then this time 
instead it's n take 2 time n take 4 times dot dot   dot. And now what we end up with will depend 
on whether n's odd or even; cos if n is even   then we'll have times 4 times 2 and if n is odd 
it will be times 3 times 1 at the end. So that's   double factorial; but I said super factorial. So 
what's that? Well the definition I'm going to use   different - mathematicians use super factorial to 
mean different things - but I'm going to say that   n super factorial, which is written like this is, 
rather than being n times n take 1 times and so   on; n factorial times n take 1 factorial times dot 
dot dot times 2 factorial times 1 factorial. Okay.  I'm going to write out some of the factorials 
here, so 1 factorial, 1 times 1 is 1. 2 factorial   well that's 2 times 1 is 2. 3 factorial is going 
to be 3 times 2 times 1, is 6. 4 factorial is 24, 5   factorial is 120 and so on. Now for the super 
factorials, 1 super factorial is just 1 factorial so that's 1. 2 super factorial is 
then 1 times 2 which is 2. 3 super factorial is   6 times 2 times 1, so that's 12. 4 super factorial: 
24 times 6 times 2 times 1 - and as I'm sure you'll   all have got just as quickly is 288. And 5 super 
factorial is this times 120 which I believe is   34,560. So these are some values of super factorials. 
Now I also just want to pause, side note, the super   factorial notation I think it's boring. We have 
like exclamation marks for factorials and we've just   got the letter sf - so I want to propose a few 
changes. Now some people do write it as a dollar   sign, so they'll write five $ sign. I don't like 
this though, because you never put a dollar sign   after the number, it just feels feels wrong. So so 
I have two different suggestions: firstly we could   continue the exclamation mark theme and use my 
favorite puncturation mark which is the interabang,   so that's a question mark and an exclamation mark. 
And it's used for rhetorical questions. If you look   at Wikipedia the examples it gives are 'You call 
that a hat‽' or my favorite 'What are those‽'. So that's   the interabang or I think we fully embrace the 
superness and possibly breach some copyright   rules and just go for super factorial like this. 
Um so these are my suggestions, if you have any   better suggestions of how we should denote 
super factorial then let me know. The problem   we often have in math is we've exhausted all of 
the standard alphabet, we've exhausted all the   Greek alphabet - we're running out of letters and 
symbols um. And especially for something like super   factorial that isn't used as commonly um to an 
extent as long as I clearly define what I mean by   the symbols you can do what you like. The problem 
comes in when I've maybe not said what this symbol   means, but if I'm very clear from the start that 
this mean super factorial then we're fine. Um so   what can we do with the super factorials? Before 
we move on to my favorite number - which some of you   might have spot us elsewhere on a paper but we're 
going to hold our horses there. Well the cool thing   is that for example if we look at for some number 
k, 4k super factorial, take that and we divide it by   2k factorial we always get a square number. Which 
I don't think is obvious but we can we can show it.   Cos let's look at this 4k super factorial, that's 
going to be 4k factorial times 4k - 1 factorial   times 4k - 2 factorial times 4k - 3 factorial times... 
and so on times 2 factorial times 1 factorial. And   we can pair these up. So looking at this pair, 
we have 4k times 4k - 1 factorial times 4k - 1   factorial so we' we've got 4k - 1 factorial squared here. 
And then here okay we've got times 4k - 2   times 4k - 3 factorial squared and so on times 
2 times 1 factorial squared. So what we get in   total is well 4k - 1 factorial squared times 4k - 3 factorial 
squared times dot dot dot times 1 factorial   squared. So that's all these pairs; and then times 
4k times 4k - 2 times and so on times 2. Now,   eagle eyes amongst you will tell me that that is 4k double 
factorial going back to here - and it is - but I want   to leave it like this and actually here we've got 
2k terms and they're all even. So we can take out   our factor of 2 - I'm just going to draw a square 
to show that this is a square number - times well   2 times 2k times 2 times 2k - 1 times dot dot dot 
times 2 times 1. So this bit is going to be our   square number time well 2 to the 2k times 2k factorial. 
And now originally we're looking at this divided   by 2k factorial. So our little 4k super factorial 
divided by 2k factorial gives us a square number   times 2 to the 2K, which is going to be a square number 
because you've got a power of 2. So it works! A   seemingly nonobvious fact can can be shown. Okay, 
now I am going to put you out your misery and go   back to number 288; because looking at these if I 
just had to glance at them I would say that one   looks the coolest. We've got 3, 4, 5, 6, 0 but that's 
not my favorite number - this one is. And it's due to   one other property of it. Because not only 
is 288 4 factorial times 3 factorial times 2   factorial times 1 factorial; it is also 4 to power of 4 + 
3 to the power of 3 + 2 to the power of 2 plus 1 to the power of 1. And I just   think that's really cool. It's the only number 
that this happens for, and we can kind of show   this if you want to get all technical - n factorial 
roughly is the square root of (2 pi*n) (n over e to the n). So   you can think multiplying n factorials together 
is going to look a bit like multiplying n to the   n together and here we're adding n to the n. So 
this is obviously- these are going to grow faster   than doing something like this but anyway we 
don't really need to look too much about that. We   just need to look at the number 288 and appreciate 
this is really cool. So that's why it's my favourite number This is halfsies, devised by the 
clever folk at Brilliant, it's free to play right   now over on their site. And I absolutely love 
it. The idea is to move one piece around until   the shaded and non-shaded areas are exactly 
the same size. It's a fun test of your visual   estimation skills - how good are you at this? And 
after a simple start you can see things start   getting a little bit tricky! As an Australian 
who spends some time in America I particularly   like this one. Head over to Brilliant to give 
it a try; the address is written there on the   screen, there's also a link in the video 
description. And when you finish you might   be tempted to check out their other countless 
courses and quizzes and puzzles - they cover all   matter of science and mathematics. It's a great 
place to give your brain a workout. They have a   free 30-day trial and Numberphile viewers 
can get a 20% discount on a subscription   by going to brilliant.org/numberphile. Again on 
the screen there. Halfsies? Well you can go and   play that for free right now and let me know 
your score, leave a comment down in the video description. I think that's a pretty good guess 
for the minimum length of the super permutation  using 1 to 6. Unfortunately recently 
someone found a super permutation   that is shorter. In fact they found a super 
permutation that had length 872 - one shorter.