Planes, trains, and trucks that are too tall
for bridges: It seems that the type of infrastructure we connect with most strongly is the kind
that gets us where we’re going. I was overwhelmed with support on the last
video, and I got a whole bunch of emails from people who share my fascination with constructed
facilities. I guess I’ve stumbled onto something here,
which feels probably as good as it can feel to find out that your life’s calling might
be to talk about infrastructure to strangers on the internet. I’m Grady and this is What’s that Infrastructure,
where we divulge and discover the manmade world around us. I first want to say a huge thanks to all the
people who sent in photographs to me since the first video in this series. I kind of tried this out on a whim, and the
response was much bigger than I expected, so thanks! The vast majority of the submissions I’ve
received have been about transportation infrastructure, so I think we’ll continue in that vein for
episode 2. A lot of people were really interested in
the bridge overheight impact protection and let me know about this bridge in Durham, North
Carolina that gets hit so frequently that someone put up a webcam and made it a website. It’s got a sacrificial steel beam that cuts
up trucks like a canopener if they’re too tall. Check it out at 11foot8.com Nick Moore sent
me a video of an overheight warning system in New Zealand that looks like it uses a pair
of lasers to detect if a vehicle is too tall. Presumably there are some warning lights that
would flash if the beams were broken. Interesting to see two system serving the
same purpose but on complete opposite extremes of cost and complexity. Nick has a YouTube channel I like a lot with
short tidbits of science and engineering, and I’ll put a link to it in the description. If you’ve ever driven into a tunnel on a
sunny day, you know that feeling of being plunged from brightness into complete darkness
and there’s a period of time where you’re basically driving completely blind while your
eyes adjust. Andreas sent in these pictures of a tunnel
in Gothenburg Sweden that has a sunshade before the entrance to allow driver’s eyes to adjust
more gradually to the darkness. Very cool idea, and even cooler because Andreas’s
grandfather was one of the engineers that helped design this system. Tunnels aren’t just for people though. Charlie from Scotland sent in a picture of
a project he worked on that included a culvert under a new road, not for water, but actually
for badgers. This provides a quote-unquote “mammal underpass”
so that local wildlife can safely get across the road. Dylan sent in this photo of a freeway sign
in California and was curious about the angled frame around it. This one stumped me, I’ve never seen something
like this, so if you know what this is, let us know in the comments. If you ride a motorcycle, you might recognize
this photo from Iwan in the UK. This is an inductive-loop traffic detector
which is used by a traffic signal to determine if a vehicle is stopped at the light. A metal vehicle stopped over the loop will
induce eddy currents, reducing the inductance which can be sensed by the light controller. Some loops have a hard time sensing small
vehicles like motorcycles which can leave you stuck at a red light that never switches,
so some riders install a magnet on their bikes to try and increase the chances of triggering
the light. Dan is the county engineer for a county in
Iowa, and he sent in this video his crew driving a pile using a vibratory hammer. Dan told me that they do all their engineering
and construction with in-house staff which is something you don’t see too often. Here they’re using a traditional gravity
hammer to check the bearing for the piles. They’ll measure how far the piles moved
after a certain number of blows from the hammer and check that against the specification to
determine if the piles pass or fail. And speaking of bridges, you might know that
the two most common materials used for in their construction, steel and concrete, actually
expand and contract due to changes in temperature. For long structures like bridges, thermal
movement even over the course of a single day, can be on the order of inches or feet. And civil engineers have developed quite a
few ways of accounting for movement in bridge designs. Karl Jansen sent this photo of a bridge beam
supported on a massive steel roller and this photo of an interesting expansion joint. Karl posts cool civil engineering photos on
his blog which I’ll link below. Greg sent in this photo of a bridge in Washington
that’s supported on one side by a rocker on a steel plate. And here’s another rocker on a bridge in
Connecticut sent in by Adam Buchbinder. Jan sent in this photo of a bearing plate
from a bridge in Wroclaw, Poland. I thought it was interesting to see the CE
marking on the name plate. Structural bearings have strict regulations
in Europe to ensure their safety. Blaise sent in this photo of his kids Joe
and Peregrine standing next to a huge roller support on the Sorlie Bridge in North Dakota. They also found a USGS stream gage mounted
on the bridge. Very cool to see kids interested in infrastructure. Finally, Alvin sent in a photo of some pistons
connected to bridge beams. I believe these are lockup devices that allow
the bridge to expand and contract due to normal thermal movement to keep stresses from building
up. But, in the event of a strong motion event
like an earthquake, the pistons resist movement, locking the beams and columns together so
the bridge can act as a composite structure and minimize the chance of failure or falling
debris. Again, huge thanks to all the people who sent
in photos. If you’ve got a cool picture you’d like
to share, send it in to Whats.That.Infrastructure@gmail.com. Make sure you mention that it’s okay for
me to use in a video, and include your mailing address. If I use your photo in a video, I’ll send
you a Practical Engineering sticker. For those wondering about the project videos,
I promise I’m working on one, but with studying for the PE exam and the brutal august heat
in the garage, things are just taking a bit longer. Not to hype too hard, but it is the most awesome
project I’ve ever worked on and it includes lasers, so stay tuned. As always, thanks for watching, and let me
know what you think.