- Calling it now. In my hands is the best
gaming laptop of 2022. This is the all new Zephyrus G14, and it's one of the seven laptops- - [Man] Eight. - Eight laptops that Asus
sent us over for CES 2022 that run the gamut from
incredibly practical, all the way to, well I
sure hope the engineers had a lot of fun making it. Like I had fun telling you
about our sponsor, AMD. Thanks to AMD for sponsoring this video. Their Halo advanced combat
exercises contest is on now, and gamers can watch live
streams or enter via email for a chance to win an AMD Radeon X1600 XT Halo Infinite limited
edition graphics card. Learn more at the link down below. (upbeat dance music) Out of the gate, we're gonna
fix a recent screw up of ours that was caused by communication snafu. This is Asus mothership concept, something that I had
honestly assumed sort of died as a weird skunkworks projects,
never to be seen again. But boy, was I ever wrong. By removing these four screws, that's right, you have
to unscrew it, sorry. We find the conclusion, or
at least the next evolution of the mothership saga, the Asus Flow Z13. It's a 1.1 kilogram tablet
that's just 12 millimeters thick and has a Core i9 12900H. That is 14 processing cores with a maximum turbo of five gigahertz. It's got an RTX 3050 Ti, featuring a MUX, so this is a 40-watt GPU. And the craziest part of this is Microsoft has been struggling for years to cool the Surface Pro. How the heck did Asus manage this? Well, they've got a vapor chamber that apparently has 44%
coverage of the main board, as well as liquid metal
for the cooling system and using the kickstand
allows for even more air flow. Asus claims it will be only
32 decibels under heavy load, 40 decibels max, which
is incredible if true, and I can't wait to properly try it out, but I can't because this
is just a dummy unit. It'll be available with up to 32 gigs of DDR5 5200 mega
transfer per second memory and up to a one terabyte SSD. - [Man] Well, there is one
that's working behind you. - There's a working on? - [Man] Yeah, it's right there. - Well then what was
the point of sending us this mock-up one? - [Man] That's a good question. - We're not allowed to use it? - [Man] Well, you can't run games. You can use it. - We're not allowed to run games. - [Man] No. - But we could run games. - [Man] Yeah, you could. - But they'll yell at us. - [Man] Yeah. And it's not like Asus will yell at us. Nvidia will yell at us,
and that's not a good time. - There are two different
options for the touch screen. Although if you get a 4K
panel on a 13-inch device, you're well, that's not a
very nice thing to write. Alex says you are all
bone from the jaw up. I am not going to take a
stance on that either way. But I will agree with him
that the 1080p 120 hertz panel will be more than enough resolution while offering a much
better gaming experience. And with 100% coverage of
sRGB and 500 nit brightness, it shouldn't look too shabby either. For IO, it's got Thunderbolt 4 with DP 1.4 running off the iGPU, and
support for power delivery. It's got an eGPU port with support for up to an RTX 3080 mobile. That's right, just like the Flow X13. It's got a type A USB 2.0,
which is weird, micro SD. HDMI 2.0, man, this thing
is absolutely loaded for bear with IO. And it finishes things off
with a 56 watt hour battery. No idea how long that'll last, given how powerful this thing is, but it's pretty impressive given the size. My question while looking
at the Flow Z13, though, is who would buy it over the Flow X13, which is basically the clamshell version that has a much more usable keyboard and a better sort of weight balance. And the answer is, according to Asus, people who don't type very much. The Z13 is lighter and
easier to cart around. So if you primarily just plan on gaming and consuming content, it could actually make a lot of sense. No word on pricing, but I'm
confident that it will have a high dollar to gram ratio and arrive sometime in late Q1 or Q2 2022. As an aside, can I just
say that I fully support a return to transparent and
translucent electronics? - Yeah.
- Yeah. - This is so cool. I love it. Cut the window into the back. - [Man] What even is it chilling? - Nothing particularly
important as far as I can tell. We'd have to open it up
to find out for sure. Moving on, let's circle back
to the Zephyrus G14 here and talk about why I
think this is going to be the gaming laptop of the year. The specs are freaking exceptional. This is an AMD Ryzen 6800HS. So that is eight core, 16
threads, up to five gigahertz. It's a six nanometers CPU. - [Man] Uh, it stopped working. - It's got an AMD Radeon RX 6800S. That has 105 watt thermal envelope, which means that in spite of
the thinness of this thing, it should be pretty darn
impressive in terms of performance and maybe even more efficient
than an Intel Nvidia combo, thanks to AMD's control over
the entire platform here. Though we'd have to test it to be sure, because the only other thing I'm sure of is that you should shop at lttstore.com for your water bottle, your indoor hoodie, all that good stuff. Actually, one other thing we know for sure is that for the size of the laptop, these components will be well cooled. 48% of the motherboard is now
covered by a vapor chamber, and it's got liquid metal
on both the CPU and GPU. Up to 32 gigs of 4,800 mega
transfer per second DDR5, one DIM that's swappable, and support for up to
a one terabyte M.2 SSD, and it's an 80 millimeter one, which means you could basically
put in whenever you want. We're not clamoring over this laptop because of its power, though. I'm excited by the G14 because of its incredible versatility. The screen is now 16 by 10, making it much better for productivity. And there's a new QHD Plus 120 Hertz panel that sounds exceptional, but 100% coverage of the DCP3 colorspace and 500 nit peak brightness. Although to be clear, I don't
think you'll be disappointed if you go for the full HD panel
that we've got right here. At 13 and 14 inches, 1080p is pretty good. The track pad is also 50% larger and the magnesium
chassis has been massaged to give it more of a premium appearance rather than a gamer one. Rounding out the practicality,
they gave it a webcam. Hey, and not only that, but it has Windows Hello facial recognition
and a 76 watt hour battery. That might be enough to pry
Alex's Dell XPS from his hands or dare I say my framework, even though I'm invested in the company. That's my disclosure right there. No word on pricing, but I hope
that isn't too much higher than the last model, because
that one was very compelling. And we're going to see
this in late Q2, 2022. What is still full on gamer
though, is the Strix Scar 15. This bad boy is now available with up to a 150 watt RTX 3080 Ti. That's right, Nvidia's new
3080 Ti features 16 gigs of GDDR6 memory and 7,424 CUDA cores. That's a 20.8% increase over
the standard 3080 Mobile. That means that Nvidia's
claim that it is 20% faster checks out at first glance, but you will have to be
careful since, of course, the TDP of a laptop potentially makes a bigger difference to your performance than the exact model
of the GPU chip inside. I'm really glad that Asus
has published an article showing the TDP and GPU
clocks of their gaming laptops so I can easily go in and
find out that, ah, yes, this one is not the fastest one. It is, in fact, this one right
here, the Zephyrus Duo 16. It has an eye watering
GPU TDP of 165 watts, putting it at pretty much
the limit of mobile hardware, with up to an RTX 3080 Ti
and an AMD Ryzen 9 6900HX. This thing, I mean, it doesn't matter what
you try to do on it. Gaming, content creation,
it's an absolute beast. The upper display is now 16 by 10 with three panel options that
all frankly sound amazing. Though my favorite has
gotta be the mini LED option with 1200 nit peak brightness,
165 hertz refresh rate, and QHD resolution. This is one of the few laptop displays that will give you a
proper HDR experience. Also available is a switching mode display that can be either 120
hertz 4K or 240 hertz 1080p. And you can check out our "Short Circuit" where I look at that display
in a little bit more depth. I mean, it's crazy when the worst panel available on a laptop is 165 hertz QHD with 500 nit peak brightness. Like, dang. Oh yeah, and that's
just one of the screens. This being a Duo, there's
a second one down here where our video editors really
like to put their timeline while editing on the go. That is, if we were going to CES 2022, we might have brought a couple of these. Finally, we've got a bunch
of tough family laptops. All right, are these the F's? - [Man] Yeah, those are the F's. - F15 and F, nope. What's this? - [Man] I didn't even look at them 'cause they're budget laptops and we don't have pricing yet, so. - Oh, yeah, you can't really
say much about a budget laptop that you don't have a price for. Well, but at any rate, they're also introducing
the TUF Dash F15 and F17, which are, at least
assuming that, you know, they are priced like
budget gaming laptops, surprisingly well-built. They should be available this quarter, so hopefully we'll be able to
properly evaluate them soon and tell you if they're
actually a good deal. What I can tell you is a
good deal is our sponsor, Ting Mobile. Ting Mobile has rates that
make it easier than ever to see how much you can save by switching. They've got unlimited talk
and text for 10 bucks, data plans starting at $15. Then there's their Set 12 plan, which has 12 gigs of data for $35 and unlimited data for $45 a month. And if you liked their previous pay for what you use
plans, they're still there. They're called Ting Mobile's Flex Plans, and they charge just $5 a gig. Data can even be shared
if you have a family plan so you can connect more
phones to save more. You'll get the same nationwide
coverage in the U.S. and award-winning customer service. In fact, Consumer Reports
just named Ting Mobile their number one carrier in America. Pretty much any phone
will work with Ting Mobile and they've got the
perfect plan for everybody, no matter your needs. So check them linus.ting.com
and get a $25 credit. If you guys enjoyed this video, you'll probably enjoy the
one where we checked out some of Asus's next gen laptop panels over on "Short Circuit," so I'm going to send you over there. Wait, I lied, it wasn't
on "Short Circuit." It was on LTT, but you should subscribe to "Short Circuit" too.