I’m standing in front of a pair of water 
towers near my house in San Antonio.   If you’ve seen my video on water towers, or you 
just know about how they work, they might look   a little odd to you. It’s not only unusual that 
there are two tanks right next to each other, but   that they’re completely different heights. This 
difference is a little hint that there’s something   more interesting below the surface here. Some 
engineering achievements are visibly remarkable.   It’s easy to celebrate the massive projects across 
the world: the Hoover Dams and the Golden Gate   Bridges. But it’s just as easy to overlook the 
less notable infrastructure all around us that   makes modern life possible. If you’ve seen any of 
my videos, you know that I think structures hidden   in plain sight are just as worthy of celebration. 
In fact, I think infrastructure is so remarkable,   I wrote a book about it that you can preorder 
starting today. I can’t tell you how excited I   am to announce this project, but first let me tell 
you a little bit about these water towers and a   few other things in San Antonio too. I’m Grady and 
this is Practical Engineering. In today’s episode,   I misguidedly chose the coldest day of the 
year to film my first on location video   here in my home city to talk about a few of my 
favorite parts of the constructed environment. Luckily the drone footage was taken on a 
sunnier day. You may have guessed already   that these two towers aren’t connected to the 
same water distribution system. If they were,   water would just drain out of the upper tank 
and overflow the lower one. San Antonio actually   has a second system that takes recycled water 
from sewage treatment plants and delivers it   to golf courses, parks, and commercial and 
industrial customers throughout the city.   Treated wastewater isn’t clean enough to drink, 
but it’s more than clean enough to water the grass   or use in a wide variety of industrial 
processes. So, instead of discarding it,   we treat it as an asset, delivering it to 
customers that can use it. That reduces   the demand on the potable water supply (which 
is scarce in this part of Texas). Some people   call this the purple pipe system, because 
recycled water pipes have a nice lavender   shade to differentiate them and prevent cross 
connections. San Antonio actually has one of   the largest recycled water delivery systems in 
the country, and this water tower is one of the   many tanks they use to buffer the supply 
and demand of recycled water around town. Not too far from the two towers is this 
unofficial historic landmark of San Antonio.   It may just look like a simple concrete wall, 
but Olmos Dam is one of the most important flood   control structures in the city. This structure 
was originally built in 1927 after a massive flood   demolished much of downtown. A roadway along 
the top of the dam had electric lights and was   a popular driving destination with nice views. 
The roadway has since been replaced by a more   hydraulically-efficient curved crest. I have a 
special connection to this dam because I worked   as an intern on a rehabilitation project at the 
engineering firm hired to design the repairs.   The project involved the installation of about 
70 post-tensioned anchors to stabilize the dam   against extreme loads from flooding. Each anchor 
was drilled through the structure and grouted   into the rock below. Then a massive hydraulic 
jack was used to tension the strands and lock   each anchor off at the top to stitch the dam to 
its foundation like gigantic steel rubber bands.   The contractor even had to use a special 
drill rig to fit under this highway bridge.   San Antonio is in the heart of flash flood alley 
in Texas, named because of the steep, impermeable   terrain and intense storms we get. Olmos Dam 
helped protect downtown from many serious floods   in its hundred year lifetime. But, it’s not the 
only interesting flood control structure in town. I’m here at the Flood Control Tunnel 
Inlet Park, one of the best-named parks   in the City if you ask me. And below my feet 
is one of the most interesting infrastructure   projects in all of San Antonio. These gates 
might not look too interesting at first glance,   but during a flood, water in the San Antonio 
River flows into ports of this inlet structure   instead of continuing downstream toward downtown. 
From this inlet, the floodwaters pass down a   vertical shaft more than a hundred feet (or 
35 meters) below the ground. The tunnel at   the bottom of the shaft runs for about 3 miles 
(or 5 kilometers) below downtown to the south,   allowing floodwaters to bypass 
the most vulnerable developed   areas and saving hundreds of millions of 
dollars in property damages from flooding. When in use, the floodwaters from the tunnel 
flow back up a vertical shaft and come out here   at the Flood Control Tunnel Outlet on the 
Mission Reach of the San Antonio River.   Under normal conditions, there are pumps that 
can recirculate river water through the tunnel,   keeping things from getting stagnant and 
providing a fresh supply of water to flow   through the downtown riverwalk. This part of the 
San Antonio River south of downtown is one of my   favorite places because it’s a perfect example 
of how urban and natural areas can coexist. When you consider infrastructure and 
construction, you might think about concrete,   steel, and hard surfaces. But this part of the San 
Antonio River was included in one of the largest   ecosystem restoration projects in the US. 
Before the project, this was your typical ugly,   channelized, urban river, but now it’s been 
converted back to a much more natural state   with native vegetation and 
its original meandering path.   But, the project didn’t only improve the habitat 
along the river. It also included recreational   improvements to make this stretch a destination 
for residents and tourists. For example, these   grade control structures help keep the river 
from eroding downward, but they also feature   canoe chutes so you can paddle the river without 
interruptions. There are several new parks along   the river, including Confluence Park, home to this 
beautiful pavilion made of concrete petals. Most   importantly, there is a continuous dedicated 
hike-and-bike trail along the entire stretch. Everyone knows about the Alamo because of 
the famous battle, but there are actually   5 Spanish missions established in the early 
1700s along the San Antonio River. The sites   together are now a historic National Park and 
a UNESCO World Heritage site. You can tour the   missions to learn about the history of Spanish 
colonialism and interwoven cultures of Spain and   the Indigenous people of Texas and Mexico. The 
Mission Reach trail provides a connection to all   the missions and a bunch of other interesting 
destinations along the river, including parks,   public art, and my favorite spots: the historic 
and modern water control infrastructure projects. So far all the structures I’ve shown you have been 
water-related. That’s my professional background,   but we could do similar deep dives just 
here in San Antonio about the power grid,   highways, bridges, telecommunications, 
and even construction projects. And,   preferably on warmer days, we could do similar 
field guides in every urban area around the world.   In fact, that’s the premise of my 
new book, Engineering in Plain Sight:   An Illustrated Field Guide to the Constructed 
Environment. I’ve been working so hard on this   project for the past two years, and I’m 
thrilled to finally tell you about it. Just like there are written guides to birds, 
rocks, and plants, Engineering in Plain   Sight is a field guide to infrastructure 
that provides colorful illustrations and   accessible explanations of nearly every 
part of the constructed world around us.   It’s essentially 50 new Practical Engineering 
episodes crammed between two covers. Imagine if   you could look at the world through the eyes of 
the engineers who designed the infrastructure you   might not even be noticing in your everyday life. 
I wrote this book with the goal of transforming   your perspective of the built environment, and I 
think once you read it, you’ll never look at your   city the same again. You can explore it like 
an encyclopedia - picking pages in no order.   Or treat the sights of your city’s infrastructure 
like a treasure hunt and try to collect them all. The book comes out in August, but I would love 
if you preorder your copy right now because,   in the world of books, presales are the best way 
to get the attention of bookstores and libraries.   If you preorder directly from the publisher, 
you’ll get a discount off the regular price,   and you can preorder signed copies 
directly from my website that come   with an exclusive enamel pin as a gift. 
Preordering is the only way to get your   hands on this custom pin that was 
designed by the book’s illustrator. Use the link in the description to find all the 
preorder locations. And one more thing: between   now and when the book publishes, I’m going to be 
posting some short explainers about interesting   infrastructure on all my social media channels, 
and I want to encourage you to do the same. I’ll   be sending 5 signed copies of my new book to my 
favorite social media posts about infrastructure   that use the hashtag #EngineeringInPlainSight. 
Check out the link below for more information.   And from the bottom of my heart, thank you 
for watching and let me know what you think! My mouth is numb!