We’re in the middle of the construction of a 
new sewage lift station outside of San Antonio,   Texas that will eventually help the 
wastewater from homes and businesses   in this quickly developing area get to 
a treatment plant that will clean it up.   In the last episode, we saw the wet well be 
installed and the huge hole get backfilled.  But,  there’s still no sewer pipes yet. You might be 
familiar with how a wastewater pumping station   works, but I bet you’ve never seen what one 
looks like from underground. Come follow   along the progress and let me show you the most 
impressive parts of this project as it gets built.   I’m your host, Grady Hillhouse, 
and this is Practical Construction. We’re back at the San Antonio River Authority’s 
newest wastewater lift station. We followed this project from bare earth to excavation to 
installation of the wet well and backfill.   When it’s finished, it will work together with its 
neighbor to move the area’s wastewater uphill to   the treatment plant. But right now, it’s just 
a big concrete tank sitting in the ground.   We still need to connect it to the sewage system. 
And the pipes that will make those connections   possible were just delivered to the site. But, 
they’re not quite ready to install just yet. You might remember from the previous episode that 
this wet well was backfilled using a material   called flowable fill. It’s a mixture of sand, 
cement, and water that acts kind of like a low   strength concrete. And here’s why: even though 
this material has to be strong enough to avoid   settling over time, it also has to be soft 
enough to be excavated with machinery so that   the pipes can be installed. It might seem odd 
to backfill the area before installing pipes,   but it's much simpler to excavate narrow 
trenches for the pipes afterward rather   than try to keep those areas open during backfill 
of the rest of the site. Three lines will connect   this wet well to the surrounding sewer system, 
which means three trenches need to be cut out. These trenches will need people working 
inside them to install the pipes.   If you’ve seen the previous episodes, you can 
probably guess what they’ll be using to keep those   workers safe from a collapse or cave-in. Shoring 
will be installed where the depth or stability of   the hole necessitates. These steel boxes arriving 
at the site will brace the walls of the trenches.   They get put into place with the excavator 
before anyone can enter the hole. Since sewer pipes are often buried well below 
the ground, especially at lift stations where   they terminate at the bottom of a slope, they have 
to withstand considerable pressure from the weight   of the soil above. To make sure the pipe can carry 
these loads, the design calls for select backfill   around the envelope of the pipe. This gravel 
being delivered to the site will be used as the bedding material.  It’s called bedding because 
it conforms around the pipe to provide support.   The bottom of each trench gets a layer of gravel 
bedding where the sewer pipes will eventually sit. But, before the pipes go into the trenches, 
they need a way into the wet well.   You may have noticed there are 
no holes in the tank just yet.   That’s because the location of the pipes is 
critical. They work by gravity, so it’s essential   that they be installed at the right elevation 
to slope into the wet well exactly as required   in the design.  If the holes came pre-installed, 
there’s a chance that a subtle shift or twist   of one of the segments would cause them to be 
misaligned. It’s just easier to drill them in the   exact right spot once the wet well is installed 
and backfilled in its final place. The pipeline crew takes their time to confirm the measurements 
with surveying equipment and double-check each of   the connections. You know the old saying: measure 
twice, core through a foot of solid concrete once. This is the core drill that will 
be used to create the penetrations.   First a small hole is drilled into the wet 
well, and a concrete anchor is installed.   This allows the frame of the core drill 
to be temporarily bolted to the wall   to keep it in the correct location. 
The drill is assembled on the frame.   And before long, it’s running. It’s basically 
an overgrown version of the hole saws you might   have used on wood or drywall. The core drill 
uses water from a hose to lubricate and cool   the hole saw and keep the concrete dust down. 
The saw is advanced by hand slowly but surely   through the concrete wall.  Eventually, it 
breaks through on the inside of the wet well.   All that’s left is a heavy chunk of 
the concrete core. That’s hole number   one finished. Two more to go. The drill is 
assembled in the next location and put to work.   It’s not long before the second hole is done.  The third penetration goes just as smoothly   as the previous two, and by the end of the 
day, the wet well is ready to be plumbed in. The gravel bedding in the first trench 
gets its finishing touches to make sure   it’s at the right elevation and there are no 
protruding rocks that could damage the pipe.   Then the line is lowered into the trench. To 
create a watertight joint between the pipe and   the concrete wet well, a link seal is installed 
around its perimeter. This device uses rubber   links surrounded by plastic to seal the annular 
space between pipe and concrete. Tightening   the screws compresses the rubber material, 
creating a long-lasting watertight connection. A second length of pipe is lowered into 
the trench to connect to the first one.   These plastic sewer pipes attach together 
using a bell-and-spigot design.   The spigot end slides into the bell, which has 
a gasket that provides a watertight seal.   First the spigot has to be lubricated so that 
it doesn’t damage the gasket as it slides in.   The two sections of pipe are pulled 
together using a chain hoist,   and eventually the backfill will keep 
them from sliding apart over time. This first sewer line actually won’t connect to 
anything at all, at least for the time being.   As this area continues to develop, there will 
likely come a time when a third lift station   is needed to deliver all the wastewater 
uphill to the nearby treatment plant.   The San Antonio River Authority and their 
engineer knew how quickly this area would grow,   so they made sure to proactively upsize 
this wet well compared to its neighbor.   When more capacity is inevitably needed in 
a few years, all they have to do is install   some new pumps instead of a completely new 
wet well. But eventually, Phase 3 will come,   and this pipe will allow the new lift station to 
connect to the one under construction right now.   Until then this one gets capped off.   The solid PVC cap is pulled into 
place at the end of the pipe, and   it’s almost ready to be buried. That’s the first 
pipe in, and it’s time to move on to number two. Since this trench isn’t as deep, 
it doesn't require shoring.   Just like the first line, gravel is spread 
into the trench to act as bedding for the pipe.   A laser level is used to make sure the slope of 
this pipe matches what’s required in the plans.   Once the bedding is in place, the 
pipe is swung into the trench. That big black bulge in the middle of the pipe 
is a flexible coupling. Although this wet well   has been designed not to move, even slight 
shifts from settlement, temperature changes,   or structural loads could put stress on 
the connected pipes buried in the ground.   These flexible couplings give each sewer 
line some freedom to move independently of   the wet well like a gross bendy straw, reducing 
stress on the pipe and the chance of a break.   It’s covered in plastic to protect 
it from the backfill material. A second length of pipe is added to the line.   Then the whole string is bumped 
into position using the excavator.   You can get a good look at that link seal here.   Once it’s connected to the wet well, the loader 
brings bucketfuls of bedding material and dumps   them on top to hold everything in place until 
they’re ready to backfill the rest of the site.   This pipe will eventually tie into a manhole that 
will connect it to the rest of the sewer system,   so we’ll be back here in a minute. The third line running to the new wet 
well will connect it to the system   of the existing pumping station 
already installed on this site.   These two facilities will work together to move 
raw wastewater to the nearby treatment plant.   This third line needs to pass under the 
concrete of the existing lift station,   and that’s going to require a saw.   This crew has 
a walk-behind saw with a diamond blade that can  cut through this slab like butter. It connects to 
the water supply to lubricate and cool the blade   and to minimize the amount of concrete dust in the 
air. They follow the lines marked by the surveyor.   Then they break the concrete up into 
sections to make them easier to remove. Once the concrete is up, the crew 
can trench the third line. As the   trench is cut, bedding gravel is added 
to the bottom just like the other two.   And the shoring is dropped in to protect workers 
from a cave-in before they can enter the trench. Thick steel plates are used on top of 
this concrete when the trench isn’t   actively being worked on to allow vehicles 
to drive over when needed and keep someone   from accidentally falling in. Now that it’s time 
to install the pipe, these plates get removed. The first pipe is lowered into 
the trench with the excavator.   It is inserted into the last hole of the wet well.   And then bedded down with gravel 
to hold the pipe in place. Once the plumbing is complete, 
the trench boxes can be removed.   All three pipes get completely covered with 
the gravel bedding material that will provide   even support. Since it’s basically rock, 
the bedding material doesn’t need to be   compacted around the pipe, a process 
that might damage the plastic lines.   Once the bedding is in place, shiny green 
warning tape is placed in the trenches.   In the rare event that someone is 
excavating this area in the future,   they should uncover the tape first to let them 
know there’s an active sewer line not far below.  Finally, the trenches get backfilled with 
soil to cover and protect the new sewer lines.   Our old friend, the vibratory, remote-controlled, 
trench roller is back in action.   It is kind of cute, but this roller 
compactor packs a strong punch,   and it’s the perfect size for 
working inside these trenches.   A layer of backfill is added to the trench, 
and then it gets compacted into place.   Every once in a while, a technician checks 
the density and moisture content of the   backfill using a nuclear density 
gauge as a quality control measure.   If the density were to be too low, the backfill 
would get another few passes from the compactor. Around the outside of the wet well where 
a concrete slab will eventually sit,   the engineer has specified that, instead of 
compacted soil, the area be backfilled with   flowable fill. Most of that fill was placed in 
the previous episode of this series, but now,   where it was trenched out for the sewer lines, it 
needs to be placed again. This site is a little   bit of a mess at the moment, so instead of trying 
to get the mixer truck around the entire wet well,   the crew instead just uses the excavator bucket 
to get to the spots where the chute can’t reach.   Where it can, the flowable fill 
is placed right into the hole.   Watching flowable fill go in 
is one of my favorite things.   And the excavator bucket pats the backfill 
into place, just for good measure.   Just like that, this project’s sewer lines 
are connected to the wet well and backfilled.   Now it’s time to connect them 
to the rest of the sewer system. The crew starts excavating for the manholes where 
the new pipes will connect to the existing system.   But take a look at this. That’s not a leak in the 
sewer line. It’s groundwater traveling through the   soil and right into the newly excavated area. 
From there, it’s moving into the new sewer line   and right into the wet well. You never know 
what you’ll find when digging deep holes in   the ground. But, at least it’s a good test that 
the new sewer line is working correctly!   The crew installs a pump to keep the site 
dry while the new manholes go in. The first manhole will connect the new 
lift station to the sewer that runs into   the existing facility. First the concrete 
is removed and the area is excavated down.   The excavator works carefully to 
avoid damaging the line below.   Every once in a while a 
worker checks for the pipe.   Once it’s exposed and visible, the 
rest of the excavation goes smoothly.   The shoring is the last piece before the manhole 
can be installed. This is a doghouse manhole,   named because of the U-shaped holes that allow 
it to fit over existing wastewater pipes.   That line is in service right now, carrying 
sewage to the existing lift station,   so it can’t be disturbed. The manhole fits 
over the new line and the existing sewer.   The crew lowers it into place and 
checks to make sure it’s level.   But, the manhole doesn’t have a bottom… yet. 
It will have to be cast in place with concrete. Concrete forms, called falsework, installed by the 
crew plug up areas where the concrete shouldn’t   flow, keeping the inside of the manhole tidy while 
the outside can be a little lumpy. Concrete is   dumped into the manhole and around the outside. An 
immersion vibrator is used to get the air bubbles   out and mobilize the concrete past the sewer 
pipes. It’s hard to see the work going on inside,   but this concrete will be smoothed and shaped to 
create a gentle path for the wastewater to flow.   Here’s a peek into one of the other manholes 
on site so you can see what it will look like   when completed. While one crew works on this 
manhole, another continues backfilling the trench.   Each layer of backfill gets compacted into 
place with the remote-controlled trench roller. Manhole number two also connects the lift 
station to an existing wastewater line.   The crew carefully excavates downward to 
the line to avoid hitting and breaking it.  A worker with a shovel checks every so often until 
they find the pipe. Once the old line is exposed,   they can excavate for the last segment of new 
pipe and the final manhole of the project. Both lines that connect to the new wet 
well also have a plug valve installed.   This will allow the River Authority to divert 
wastewater to the other lift station when needed   for repairs and maintenance. I’ll show you how 
it all works once this manhole is installed.   The last segment of pipe going to the new 
wet well gets lowered into place, measured, then cut to length.  Finally it is pushed into 
the bell to connect it to the rest of the line. Just like the previous one, this is 
a doghouse manhole that drops over   the top of the sewer lines that it will connect.   The crew works to install the falsework to hold 
back the concrete that will form the bottom of the   manhole. You can also see the plug valve installed 
on the existing wastewater line. Once everything   is ready, concrete is placed into the manhole 
and around the outsides to form the bottom.   An immersion vibrator helps the 
concrete flow around the pipes.   Again, this doesn’t have to 
look pretty on the outside.   It just has to form a stable bottom 
for the manhole and seal the areas   around each of the sewer lines. Once the manhole bottoms are cured, each 
one gets a precast top segment that will   eventually have an iron lid. And sealant tape 
is applied around the perimeter of each joint   in the precast segments to prevent leaks. Those 
blue pipes hold the stems for the plug valves.   Finally the manhole bottoms and 
pipe segments get a leak test.   Plugs are installed in the pipes 
where they terminate at the wet well.   These get inflated to create 
a seal at the end of the line.   Then each manhole is filled with water 
and left to make sure there are no leaks.   Later, the pipes in the manholes will be 
cut so wastewater flows into each one,   but for now the pipes are left continuous so 
the manholes are bypassed during construction. Finally I can show you how all this plumbing fits 
together. There’s an existing wastewater line   here that runs into this existing manhole. And 
there’s another existing line that comes in from   the opposite direction. Right now, they all flow 
into the wet well of this single existing lift   station. But now, the San Antonio River Authority 
has options. The new line and manhole here, plus   the two valves, means that all the wastewater from 
this line can be diverted into the new wet well.   And the new line and manhole here, means that all 
the wastewater from the other line can be diverted   into the new wet well too. There’s just one 
piece missing, and it just showed up in a truck. This monster plug valve is the last one needed 
to make these lift stations fully redundant.   It will go on the 24” (or 600 millimeter) diameter 
sewer line flowing into the existing lift station   on this site. But you can’t just turn off a 
functioning sewer line to install a valve.   All the houses connected to this 
pipe are still using it 24/7.   So how do you do a job like this and 
keep the wastewater flowing? That   process and much much more on the next 
episode of Practical Construction. We’re past halfway in this series, but if 
you can’t wait to catch that next episode,   it’s already live on Nebula at the link below. 
Practical Construction is an experiment for me,   something totally different than 
the typical videos I make. I’ve   always wanted to do something like this, but 
spending a year on a construction site and   shooting hours and hours of footage for single 
25-minute episode is kind of hard to justify.   But I think you deserve to see how the constructed 
environment you depend on gets built around you,   even if a 5-part series on sewage 
infrastructure isn’t necessarily the   best fit for the YouTube algorithm. That’s 
why the series is best seen on Nebula. If you, like me, have given up on the TV 
networks but don’t want to give up on high   quality educational content, Nebula 
has got you covered. And unlike TV,   you’ll never see an ad or interruption on 
Nebula. You’ve probably heard me talk about   it before. It’s a streaming platform 
built by and for independent creators.   No industry executives or big production 
houses deciding what projects live or die;   just people like me who are passionate about 
a topic they want to share with the world,   or in my case, a massive sewage pumping station. 
And Nebula just keeps getting better and better:   totally ad-free videos from excellent educational 
channels, original series and specials that can’t   be found anywhere else, and even classes 
from your favorite creators like Adam Neely. I know there are a lot of streaming platforms 
out there right now, and no one wants another   monthly cost to keep track of, but I also know 
that if you’re watching a show like this to end,   there is a ton of other stuff on Nebula that 
you’re going to enjoy as well. So I’ve made   it dead simple: click the link below and 
you’ll get 40% off an annual plan. That   means you pay just one time, 30 dollars, 
for an entire year’s access to Nebula.   That’s less than 3 dollars a month. Help me 
show the world how cool construction can be,   and get the best viewing experience on the 
internet while you’re at it by clicking   that link in the description below. Thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think.