- Hey guys, this is Austin. The Razer Phone 2 is official
and it takes everything that was good about the original
and brings it up a notch. With the added benefit
of not having a notch. (funky music) The original Razer Phone
was a polarizing device. What it did well, it did really well. What didn't work though, was
basically a deal breaker. The highlight last year was the
5.7 inch 1440p IGZO display. What made this so good
for gaming wasn't just the pure size of the display or the
quality, but the frame rate. As opposed to basically every
other smartphone out there which is capped at 60 frames per second, the Razer Phone can go
all the way up to 120 fps and that continues with the Razer Phone 2. The 120 hertz panel
carries over this year, but with some key improvements,
most notably brightness. The last year's panel
actually was a good, solid, accurate display but it just
didn't get all that bright. Thankfully that is something
that has been improved with the Razer Phone 2, with
up to 50% more brightness. Now mind you, when we were
able to try it on our brief hands-on the difference wasn't
massive, but it is definitely going to be at least
somewhat brighter than year. The fluidity is just as
impressive as it was last year with a full 120 hertz refresh rate everything is buttery-smooth,
not just games. The UON itself is one of
the most noticeable things when you're doing something
simple like scrolling through a webpage or some email. The closest competitor
is actually the iPad Pros with ProMotion, it's
a very similar feeling with that 120 hertz refresh rate. It's really something that you kind of have to see to really understand. What's kind of interesting
is that the game support actually is a little
bit more hit and miss. On the Android side, a lot
of titles only hit around 30 frames per second,
much less 60 or even 120. But a fair amount of games are
becoming optimized for that higher refresh rate, either
with running with unlocked frame rates or with running
with some kind of higher mode that will at least target
something like 90 fps. When it does support it,
it makes a big difference. But the issue is that a lot of
games don't even come close, but I guess the harbor is there? My actual favorite feature
though, are the speakers. Note the Razer Phone 1,
which you got were two incredibly loud, incredibly detailed speakers and that carries over to the Razer Phone 2 but
with some key upgrades. Unlike most of the phones
with dual speakers, such as the iPhone which takes
advantage of the earpiece as well as the bottom-firing speaker. Don't get me wrong that does sound good, but with having two huge
proper speakers aimed directly at your face, it makes a big difference. It's really straight
forward, the Razer Phone has the best speakers on
any smartphone, period. Not only are they rich and detailed, but a big part of it is
the stereo separation. It is further helped by
the fact that it does have Dolby 5.1 Surround Support
which is weird because there are two speakers, but if you
move past that what you're getting is something that does
give you some real presence. Music and videos sound good but it's especially noticeable in games. So specifically with
PUBG you can really tell where people are around you purely using the speakers which is really impressive. The only downside to the whole audio setup is that we still don't
have a headphone jack, which would be nice on
the ultimate gaming phone. At least there's a good dongle in the box? The screen speakers were
really the strong suit of the original Razer Phone and
it's nice to see that they've been at least somewhat
enhanced for this new version and that's going to definitely be a trend. It is a very similar phone
of the original Razer Phone, just improved in some not so subtle ways. The problem with the OG was
that while it was a good gaming phone it really wasn't
good for much beyond that. There's no water resistance,
no wireless charging, the screen was a little
bit dim in daylight, and the biggest issue was that the camera was straight up abysmal. Now credit where credit's due,
they have improved the camera quite a bit with firmware
updates but there's only so much you can do with the
hardware that's included, which is where the Razer Phone 2 comes in. Thankfully they've stepped
up the game with new Sony sensors, improved
optics for both the standard as well as telephoto cameras,
and a fully rewritten software stacked from the
ground up to better take advantage of photos that are
not crunchy and terrible. The phone I tried wasn't
running final software, so I'm not able to share
the images that I took on it but it was a big improvement
over the original Razer Phone. Now note it probably
won't compete the iPhones and the Pixels and the
Galaxys of the world, but at the very least it
should be a usable camera which is very nice in your
expensive flagship gaming phone. That is a big deal when
you're spending this kind of money you should expect no compromises. So one of the additions this year is full IP67 water resistance. Now that's actually kind
of impressive considering just how huge the speakers are. It's not easy to waterproof
something like that. There's also a new glass
back which supports wireless charging at up to 15 watts. Speaking of the glass back
while the overall dimensions of the Razer Phone are very similar, there is a revolutionary new feature this year, an RGB Chroma Razer logo. Yes, it actually isn't
as bad as it might seem. So you can, of course turn it
fully off and the colors are, not only going to be full
RGB, but fairly subtle. It kind of looks more like a colored logo than a bright, flashy gamer
logo, gamer logo, gamer logo. Unlike other gaming phones the Razer Phone's design is fairly subdued. Now sure, it doesn't have the same sort of flash as the RG phone
but a lot of people, myself included, probably
would prefer something that's just a little bit more subtle. The rest of the specs are good,
but nothing all that crazy. You've got the Snapdragon
845 paired with 8 gigabytes of RAM, 64 gigs of storage
expandable via MicroSD, as well as a big 4,000
milli-Ampere-hour battery. The only thing that's really remarkable is the vapor-chamber cooling. Unlike a lot of other
water-cooled smartphones, which have a tiny little heat
pipe, Razer instead opted to go for a nearly full-size vapor chamber which goes directly on
top of the processor. How much of a difference
this make remains to be seen, but it does make a big
difference when it comes to gaming for long sessions when you don't wanna throttle down til half your normal clock speed like
some other smart phones. The Razer Phone really did
kick off the gaming phone trend something I don't think is
going anywhere, anytime soon. But the real question,
as it was last year, is do you actually need a gaming phone? Take a look at the PC space for example, there's a very clear need
for gaming-focused hardware. Sure you can play some
games on an Ultrabook but it's not going to be
anywhere near the experience of playing something with proper CPU and especially proper dedicated graphics. On the mobile side
though, that need is there but the actual hardware
really hasn't caught up. When you consider that the
$800 Razer Phone has the same spec as a $400 POCO phone,
sure the Razer Phone might not throttle quite as much
but the overall experience, not counting the screen,
the speakers, the actual performance itself isn't going
to be massively different. All that being said, the
Razor Phone 1 had a ton of potential but some major
drawbacks, whereas the Razor Phone 2 can be really
summed up very simply, it is a refinement of that original design and it really is what the
Razor Phone 1 should have been. That $800 price though,
means that this is squarely up against the high-end
flagships of the world. The main question for me
is going to be the camera, I really don't think it's
going to match up to the very, very high-end stuff like
the Pixels and the Galaxys. But as long as it is decent
enough, I think that'll be good enough for most people,
but the difference between good enough and great is a huge
one in this space right now. The real elephant in the room
right now is the ROG Phone. On paper it does have some
superior specs in some ways, it does have the headphone jack, some additional accessories,
and that 90 Hertz OLED display. I would like to think that the Razer Phone and ROG would be a good
head-to-head comparison, but until the ROG Phone comes out it's really hard to nail that down. There's no doubt that the Razor Phone 2 is a big step forward with
that high-refresh rate display, the loud speakers, and
the solid performance it should be a real winner
if you're into gaming. But I'm really curious,
what do you guys think about the concept of the gaming phone? Is it really worth the extra money? (funky music)