At its peak in the late 1800s and early 1900s,   the Persian/Arabian Gulf supplied 80% of 
the world's naturally harvested pearls. Pearls from the Gulf once dominated the world 
market. And pearling dominated the Gulf. Contemporary surveys implied that up to 95% of the   capable male population in 
Qatar worked in pearling. Then in 1916, a businessman in Japan invented   a way to produce a perfectly round 
cultured pearl at industrial scale. His work annihilated an industry 
half a world away. In this video,   we look at the Gulf pearl diving 
industry and Japanese cultured pearls. ## Beginnings The Persian/Arabian Gulf include 
the waters off what is now Kuwait,   Bahrain, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates. The people there have been pearling 
for thousands of years. We have   archaeological evidence of pearls and 
pierced pearl jewelry in Kuwaiti sites   dating back to 5,000 BC. So the pearl might 
perhaps be the oldest gem known to man. Random cuneiform tablets aside, 
Greek writers writing at about   400-100 BC give us our first concrete 
mentions of pearl fishing in the Gulf. The Gulf experienced its first pearl boom thanks 
to the Roman Empire. Julius Caesar is said to   have paid 6 million sestertia or about 
$650,000 for a single pearl as a gift. And who can forget Cleopatra's bet 
with Mark Antony that she can eat   a meal worth 60 million sestertia or $6.5 million?   She is said to have won the bet by dissolving a 
pearl in a cup of vinegar. Wonder what she won. Many of these Arab cities grew 
wealth by bridging east and west,   trading goods like pearls to the 
wealth centers of the Indian ocean. Bahrain was and for many years 
remained the largest. In the 1400s,   the total pearling fleet 
numbered a thousand ships. ## Colonization In the 1500s, the Portuguese and other European 
powers colonized the cities of the Indian ocean. The colonizers moved the old trade routes, 
cutting out the Arabs from their former   livelihood. The Arabs were relegated to 
simple agents or distributors. Margins   were tight with profits flowing up 
to European capitalist companies. The decline in the trading business - 
combined with shifting trends in gulf   politics - enabled the rise of new 
pearling centers outside of Bahrain.   Like Julfar, a city bit north of the 
modern city of Ras al-Khaimah in the UAE. By the 1700s, the pearling economy had grown large   enough to support population centers 
otherwise unsustainable without it. In the 1800s, the British entered the picture,   crafting the local society to their taste. 
At that time, the leading marine power in   the region was the Al Qasimi - an Arab 
gulf dynasty - with some 500 ships. Their traditional trade routes to the Indian ocean 
clashed with the European colonial companies.   The British - seeing them as mere pirates - went   and fought two campaigns against them 
in 1809 and then 1819. Which they won. The subsequent preliminary treaties signed 
in 1819 dissembled the fleets except for   those meant for pearl fishing. So part 
of the reason why pearling in the Gulf   eventually became so dominant was because that 
was what the Europeans "allowed" them to do. ## Pearling Let's talk a bit about how pearling worked. The waters of the Persian/Arabian Gulf 
are shallow and quiet but also warm.   That is why they are so ideally 
suited for large beds of oysters. Diving happened basically whenever the 
waters were warm enough to dive into.   Traditionally that spans about four months 
of the year. But by the early 1900s,   the season had split into three distinct phases. First we have the "Cold Dive" or the Ghaws 
al-Barid. These take place in mid-April or   May and last for about 40 days. The waters are 
colder at this time, so not every boat does it. Then we have the Ghaws al-Kabir, or 
the "Great Dive" - where most of the   boats are going to be at. It starts 
in early June and ends in September. A local emir would appoint an "admiral" who 
sets out to the sea banks with his clan of   boats. The journey would be christened with 
ceremonies. The banks are communally owned,   so the fleets can choose whichever one 
they think might have the best oysters. There are 271 charted pearl beds around the Gulf   but most captains keep the locations of 
their favorites only in their heads. And   these beds move around. They might 
be empty one year and lush the next. Once they are at the pearl beds, the 
divers clamp their noses shut with a   special clip made from turtle shell 
or sheep bone. They then dive about   15 meters or 50 feet to the seabed with 
the aid of weights tied to their legs. Once at the seabed, they harvest oysters, putting 
them into bags tied around their necks. Naturally,   the divers do not have any breathing 
equipment so they hold their breath.   Sometimes for up to 4 minutes. It 
was a hard job in which some died. Once their time is up, the bags and 
divers are hauled up to the surface by   people on the boat. The diver rests for 
a few minutes and then goes back down.   On a good day, a diver might make about 
50-60 dives. Sometimes up to 100 even. The oysters are left overnight 
to weaken and die. Boy workers   then open up the oysters in front 
of the divers to prevent fraud. At the end of the Great Dive, the 
boats return home over the span of   3 weeks - the "al-raddah" or return. 
This is marked with great celebration. The pearls are purchased on the spot by 
merchants. The merchants then ship them   to what is now Mumbai, India. The pearls might 
be sold to people there or shipped to Paris,   London, New York, and the rest of the world. Pearl divers then do jobs like 
agriculture during the off-season.   Finally, divers who suffered a bad 
harvest or have a strong tolerance   for chilliness might go back out to 
the ocean again for a final cold dive. ## Rising Trends New trends in the second half of the 1800s helped   set the table for an unprecedented 
boom in the Gulf pearling industry. Pearls have always been popular in Europe 
because of their beauty and shininess.   Which are said to signify sweetness 
and purity. But as the middle class   gained more disposable income, they wanted 
to wear more jewelry to signal their wealth. In France, the Empress Eugenie of France 
- wife of Napoleon the Third - started   wearing colored pearls. She then 
triggered a Paris fashion trend. Pearls became a sign of "legitimate taste". 
The Parisian jeweler Léonard Rosenthal said   that the "pearl necklace became one of 
the surest warrants of bourgeois dignity". This European middle class demand 
just added on top of existing demand   in India and the rest of Asia - 
leading to a world pearl boom. Pearl-bearing mollusks can be found all around 
the world from Mississippi to Scotland to Ceylon   to the Red Sea. But the Gulf most benefitted 
from this pearl boom for several reasons. First, Gulf pearls themselves are quite 
nice. They are multi-colored - yellow,   pink, blue, so on - which very 
much appealed to French tastes.   And their luster holds up better 
when rubbed with skin oils. Second, competing pearling markets in British 
Ceylon and the Red Sea were hit by external   factors. Ceylon had a series of natural 
disasters and the Red Sea was beset by   pirates. So in the late 1800s and early 1900s, 
the Gulf had a near monopoly on natural pearls. ## Peak Pearling Prior to 1870, the entire Gulf pearling industry 
generated revenues of about 1.4 million rupees. In 1873, Bahrain generated 1.4 
million rupees by itself. The   southern Gulf states of the modern UAE 
were earning 1.1 million rupees a year. Gulf pearl exports - which the British tracked 
in terms of value rather than quantity due to   the nuances of pearl trading - then more 
than doubled in value from 1873 to 1902. In 1908, the English diplomat John Lorimer 
published the most comprehensive survey of   the Gulf pearling industry. By then, the 
Gulf economy was completely dependent on   pearl fishing. Pearls were 75% of 
the Arabian Gulf's total exports. For four months of the year, the towns would be 
empty of physically capable men. An estimated   4,500 boats and 74,000 people would come 
out to sea from both sides of the Gulf.   In some years, that went up to 80,000 people. A stunning 50-70% of the male Gulf 
population was connected to the pearl   fishing industry in some way or form - 
if we are to believe Lorimer's surveys. The local government and governors 
derived some 60-80% of their income   from the pearl trade. This incentivized 
them to protect the industry from foreign   interference. And they also attempted 
to regulate it to prevent overfishing. In 1877, William Palgrave recalled 
how Sheikh Mohammed bin Thani - his   son would go on to found the 
modern Qatari state - said: > We are all from the highest to the 
lowest slaves of one master, Pearl. ## Costs Pearl diving was a difficult 
life. By the late 1800s,   many of the workers on the boats were migrants. These migrant workers have it especially hard,   to say the least. Individual pearl divers 
are paid for the pearls they harvest,   minus living expenses whilst on the boat. Because 
most divers don’t have the money up front,   they borrow it from the boat captains. Captains 
in turn borrow from the pearl merchants. Captains and divers who suffer repeated bad 
pearling seasons end up seeing their debts   grow - praying for that one beautiful 
pearl season to save the day. If that   season never comes, then their property and 
even family can be forfeit to the lender. So the entire Gulf pearling industry and 
the people in it depended on borrowed money,   a perilous situation. Worse yet, they were 
chained to it via debt - indentured servitude. Pearls are beautiful and worthy of kings and 
queens. But the cost of getting to them are   high and wasteful - an exploitive industry 
involving predatory debt and the deaths of   many oysters and occasionally 
a few people. A sad situation. ## Cultured Pearls of China The Ancient Chinese people dove for pearls too,   searching the bottoms of big freshwater 
rivers for pearl-bearing mussels. This was an extremely dangerous job. 
Many divers drowned, froze to death,   or were attacked by river creatures. The hardships   motivated Chinese scientists to find 
ways to artificially produce pearls. The ancient Chinese people of the 11th century   Song are the first people recorded to have 
artificially created pearls from mollusks. You take a large freshwater mussel and put 
it into clean water. The mussel would then   open its mouth which gave you the chance to 
put a bright and shiny fake pearl into it. After that, you wait - frequently changing the 
water to keep it clean and keeping the mussel   under moonlight during the night. 
After two years, you get a pearl. Notably, the Song Chinese inserted little 
Buddha sculptures into freshwater mussels   to create what are now called blister pearls.   These were treasured art pieces that the 
Europeans tried to copy but could not. The Chinese honed this technique over the years 
and a small cultivated pearl industry sprung up.   Chinese pearls were said to be vastly superior 
and you can hardly tell them from the real thing. Great, right? But Chinese cultured 
pearls suffered a production problem.   In the 1700s the French Jesuit priest 
François Xavier d'Entrecolles detailed   the process. This is long but 
bear with me, it’s a gem ha ha: > In a basin one half full of fresh water, 
place the largest mussels obtainable,   set the basin in a secluded place where the dew 
may fall thereon, but where no female approaches,   and neither the barking of dogs nor 
the crowing of chickens is to be heard. > Pulverize some seed-pearls, such 
as are commonly used in medicine,   moisten this powder with juice expressed 
from leaves of a species of holly,   and then roll the moistened powder into 
perfectly round pellets the size of a pea. > These are permitted to dry 
under a moderate sunlight,   and then are carefully inserted within 
the open shells of the mollusks. > Each day for one hundred days the mussels are 
nourished with equal parts of powdered ginseng,   china root, peki, which is a root … and pecho,   another medicinal root, all combined with 
honey and molded in the form of rice grains. You can see why Chinese artificial 
pearls did not take over the world.   The process was artisanal. It was in 
part modeled on superstition. Like,   why can’t women, chickens and dogs go near 
the basin? And it cannot easily scale. ## Making Pearls We have long known that natural pearls 
come from foreign objects introduced into   the oyster's body. Which it then coats in a 
substance called nacre or mother-of-pearl. The question was what that thing 
might be. Traditional folklore in   the West claimed that oysters or mussels 
created pearls when touched with a drop of   rain or dew. This was accepted for 
many centuries. I don't know why. In the early 1600s, both the Flemish naturalist 
Anselmus de Boodt and the Portuguese explorer   Pedro Teixeira pointed out that the pearl 
and the inside of the mollusk's shell were   made from the same thing. They suggested that the 
pearl was the result of a disease in the oyster. In the early 1800s, scientists cut open small 
pearls and found tiny particles about the same   size of oyster eggs. This led them to theorize 
that pearls came from oysters’ own excreted eggs. Other scientists noticed that oysters 
often suffered parasites. In the 1850s,   the scientist Filippo de Filippi of 
Italy obsessively studied freshwater   mussels and concluded that pearls 
originated from such parasites. Throughout the 1800s and early 1900s, the parasite 
theory grew to dominance. Even today, Wikipedia   makes the claim that most natural pearls originate 
with parasites or intruders into the mollusk. The problem with the parasite pearl theory 
is that it is hard to mass-produce cultured   pearls with it. In the early 1900s, 
entrepreneurs started various business   ventures implanting parasites into poor 
oysters to make pearls. These all failed. ## Japan Kokichi Mikimoto was born in 
1858 to an udon shop owner. When Mikimoto was 11, his father fell ill so he 
left school to sell vegetables on the streets.   Later on, he switched jobs to become 
a seafood merchant. He did this well   enough to be appointed chairman of his local 
Marine Products Improvement Association. Japan's natural pearls are 
produced by Akoya oysters,   which can produce a fine pearl of high value. 
But in those years of the world pearl boom,   the oyster population suffered 
massive overfishing. Which was sad. So Mikimoto decided that there 
might be an opportunity in pearl   oyster aquaculture. So in September 
1888 he began experiments in Tahoku   Island in Ago Bay to produce 
perfectly round cultured pearls. In 1890 he was introduced to Professor Kakichi 
Mitsukuri of what is now the University of Tokyo.   From Mitsukuri he received a complete education 
in the history of oyster culturing in the West. ## Pearl Formation As it turns out, natural pearl 
formation is a bit more subtle   than just a parasite bumbling into the oyster. The pearl oyster starts producing 
what will eventually be a pearl   when it suffers an injury to its mantle. The mantle is the oyster's most 
external organ. It lines the insides   of the shell's valves and encloses 
the oyster's soft organs and tissues. Now, this might come because of a foreign 
irritant like a parasite. Like a tiny crab   that has gotten into the space between 
mantle and shell. Or a grain of sand,   a rock, broken shell or so on. However the 
injury comes about is ultimately irrelevant. When the oyster senses the injury, cells from the   upper layers of the mantle travel to 
it. They multiply by cell division,   surrounding the injury or irritant to 
create a closed cyst called a "pearl-sac". This pearl-sac was first discovered in 
1856 by a scientist named von Hessling.   The cells in the pearl-sac begin producing the 
various material layers that will eventually   create our pearl. If there is a parasite 
inside the pearl-sac, then it gets dissolved. Who cares right? But this distinction is important   because it helps industrialize the 
process. Everyone else was sticking   living parasites into the oyster. Once 
you realize that this is not necessary,   you can go about finding what thing you can stick 
in there to get results like a natural pearl. ## The First Breakthrough From the start, Mikimoto wanted to make 
spherical pearls. That was the goal. He tried inserting a variety of items 
or nuclei into the oyster in order to   stimulate the oyster into creating a pearl-sac. 
He introduced nuclei made from coral, abalone,   bone, powdered fish scales, 
and so on into his oysters. In 1892, Mikimoto hit upon a breakthrough. 
He created beads from the shells of other   oysters and they formed hemispherical 
pearls. These are basically half-sphere   pearls. Their flat bottoms make it 
easier for them to stick to settings. The following year, Mikimoto filed 
a patent and immediately started   scaling up his hemispherical pearl 
operation. He opened a jewel shop in   the Ginza district of Japan and started 
marketing his cultured pearls abroad. Meanwhile his team continued researching 
for a way to produce perfectly round pearls. ## The Spherical Breakthrough Okay this is about to get complicated. Mikimoto’s second daughter married one of his 
disciples - a man named Tokichi Nishikawa (西川藤吉). In 1901 Nishikawa was in Australia as a 
Fisheries inspector, where he met another   inspector - the father-in-law of another 
scientist named Tatsuhei Mise (見瀬辰平). The two were probably familiar with the work of   an English marine biologist named 
William Saville-Kent. Saville-Kent   was stationed in Australia at the time 
and was known for his work in corals. But the guy was also interested in pearls. There 
are records that from 1890 to 1893, Saville-Kent   conducted experiments in pearl formation in the 
Torres Strait between New Guinea and Australia. Knowledge and understanding of this pearl work 
reached the two Japanese and inspired them.   In 1902, Nishikawa returned to 
Japan, as did Mise's stepfather. Mise's stepfather must have told Mise 
about what he learned in Australia,   because Mise immediately began 
experimenting on pearl cultures   in his native Mie prefecture. In 1907, Mise 
began filing for patents on his procedure. Meanwhile separately, Nishikawa was 
secretly working with Mikimoto on   spherical pearl culturing too. Mikimoto had 
moved him to a separate island for secrecy   issues. His team eventually 
operated on 27,000 oysters. In 1905, a red tide swept Nishikawa's oysters, 
killing many of them. But miraculously,   workers found 3 spherical pearls 
in some of the survivors - leading   Nishikawa to declare victory. In 1907, 
he started filing for a patent too. Both methods were very similar, leading to 
a patent conflict. They both used similar   nuclei - a bead and a small piece 
of mantle tissue called a saibo. This saibo is carefully selected from 
a different donor oyster and is in   secure contact with said bead but does not 
entirely cover it. This part is critical. The nuclei would then be 
implanted into the oysters   using specially modified dental tools or a needle. Nishikawa's invention came first, but Mise 
filed first. The two sides argued for a while,   but made peace in 1908. Nishikawa was 
dying from terminal cancer and Mise   decided to settle at a disadvantage 
to himself, writing in his memoirs: > "Tokichi Nishikawa is nearing the end of his   life due to illness and [this issue] 
must be resolved as soon as possible." Mise was a fine human being but perhaps 
not the greatest businessman. Anyway,   the two fused their work to 
create the Mise-Nishikawa method. Nishikawa passed away the following 
year at the age of 35. The rights to   his share of the patent passed to his son 
Shinkichi Nishikawa, Mikimoto's grandson. Meanwhile, work on the Mise-Nishikawa 
method was carried on by Nishikawa's   assistants - Sukeyo and Masayo Fujita. The Fujita brothers further honed 
their method. Mikimoto realized that   this improved Mise-Nishikawa method scaled 
far better than anything else that he had   done before and licensed it in 1916. 
Mass production began that same year. ## Collapse From there on, Japan's spherical cultured 
pearls took over the world pearl market. These pearls were far cheaper 
- selling at a third of the   price of their natural counterparts. And 
customers just liked them more. Cultured   pearls eventually got to be far larger, 
consistent and lustrous than naturals. By 1926, Japan dominated the cultured pearl 
industry. Mikimoto had the largest and most   prominent farm, but there were over 30 
farms and 670,000 pearl oysters. By 1931,   there were 51 farms producing 
a million pearls each year. The Gulf pearl fishing industry vanished 
- smashed to pieces from both the supply   and demand sides. On the supply side, 
Japan's cultured pearls - ever scaling in   quantity. And on the demand side, the Great 
Depression snuffing out the market in 1929. It led to massive social upheaval. The pearl 
divers' debts were never easy to pay off, but now   it was impossible. Many turned to the British for 
arbitration and possible release from their debts. By the 1930s, the captains no longer 
made money from each pearling trip. So   they released the pearl divers entirely. 
Only the pearl divers - now desperate   for work - argued against being 
thrown into the metaphorical cold. The governments of the Gulf also saw the 
annihilation of their pearling revenues.   It might have been the end of them, 
but luckily they struck oil. Literally. ## Conclusion To conclude, a quick side discussion. The similarities between Mise and Nishikawa's 
methods have led historians like C. Denis   George to fervently argue that Saville-Kent 
- the English coral biologist - was the true   discoverer of the method. The two Japanese merely 
took it back home and claimed it as their own. But George's arguments for this are largely 
circumstantial. We can be sure that Saville-Kent   did create hemispherical pearls, but 
spherical pearls? That, we are not so   sure. There is little documentation 
of his methods and he died in 1909. Furthermore, there was little 
to discover. By the early 1900s,   the scientific community already largely 
knew what created natural pearls and even   the mechanism by which it happened. Remember, the 
pearl-sac was discovered all the way back in 1856. I am not saying that Saville-Kent wasn't 
the original inventor. I just want to point   out that we shouldn't be so quick to say 
that he was - like as Wikipedia implies. So then you have to ask. If the 
knowledge was already out there,   why were the Japanese the 
first to capitalize on it? The Japanese first industrialized cultured 
pearl production because the rest of the   world was busy building their cultured pearl farm 
operations based on the parasite infection theory. However, Japan's Akoya oysters did not 
have the same parasites as those in the   West. Yet they still produced pearls all 
the same. This was the criticial insight   that led Japanese scientists and Mikimoto 
to search for another stimulus of some kind. So in some ways, a bit of pure luck. But Mikimoto 
and the jewelry empire that now bears his name   were able to make the most of it to build up 
one pearl empire, and bring down another one.