- Welcome to CES 2024. Let's find some cool stuff. (upbeat music) First up, we have this,
the Omen Transcend 14. I do wanna give a shout
out to the Omen team for sponsoring this video. So what really drew me to
this laptop is the fact that it is thin and
light while still having some real gaming performance. We're talking about a
laptop that weighs 1.6 kilos and comes in at 17.9 millimeters thin, which is very impressive
considering that it's outfitted with some proper specs,
including up to an RTX 4070 and an Intel Core Ultra 9 185H. So there are a few things that are going for this Omen, one of which is
actually the port selection. It actually uses 140-watt
USB-C charger, and that's it. So you don't have to deal with
a giant bulky power brick, and on top of that, you also have, what I would say is a
good input experience. This keyboard is really, really unique. (keys clacking) So the keyboard feel is
good, but I love the RGB. The fact that you've got
the pudding-style key caps, I think, adds a lot to the
aesthetic of this laptop. Now, it does come in a couple of colors. You can get it in both
white as well as black. I'm partial to the white colorway because I think to me this
really sort of stands out. That combined with the display means that you're getting a
good gaming experience. So it is a 2.8K panel. You got up to 120 hertz refresh
rate, and it is an OLED. I'm so happy. (claps) 2024 really does feel
like the year of OLED. So we're seeing 'em on laptop,
seeing on gaming displays, and at this point it's
almost like if you don't have an OLED, what are you doing? This laptop is also going to be available with the Cloud III headset bundle. So the neat part about this
is that it actually has the dongle for the headset built in, and this is actually a software update that's gonna be coming to all of the Cloud III headsets later this year. Now, it's a good
combination because this is a very portable, easy to use gaming setup. There's a lot going for this Omen. I gotta say. So if you're interested, make sure to subscribe to the channel
(bell chiming) and stay tuned because I'll be taking a much closer look at
this a little bit later on once I get myself a full retail sample. So this will be going on sale. You actually can do pre-orders now, and I'll have a link in
the description for that. This will be going on
sale a little bit later in January, early February, and again, it starts at 1,499, but as far as a thin
and light gaming laptop that is a very much a good daily driver, this Omen Transcend 14
looks very, very impressive. Last year at CES, I was able to take a look at LG's transparent OLED. This time around, not only
does the tech improve, but they've also got
it ready to go on sale. It is very loud in here. They have an entire display
full of the OLED TVs. The way this works is
that not only do you have the transparent OLED, but
when you're ready to watch TV or something, there's a screen
that rolls around the back, which gives you pretty much the exact same experience
as a traditional OLED, but when you wanna see
through it, that can roll up, and it is entirely transparent. The main thing I notice here is that it seems like it's a much more refined version of the tech. Last year it was really neat, but it felt more like a tech demo. This, essentially,
short of the price, feels like there's no real downside to it. I mean, that just looks
like a regular OLED, but look how great it looks
with the transparency as well. This is incredibly cool,
the level of fidelity that you're able to get here. I'm surprised by how bright
it is, and here we go. So this is the actual screen rolling up. So there you go. So now with the actual screen
rolled up in the background, essentially you've got no downside compared to a traditional OLED. It is really cool, and just staring right in front of it, very clean. (air whooshing) There's a lot of stuff here at
the ASUS booth, like always, but a couple of highlights
include this, the AirVision M1. So I got to spend some time with it, and you've probably seen some items such as like the XREAL and whatnot. They're essentially displays
that go on your eyes. So it does AR, but
really it's meant more so as like a personal display that you can, you know, sort of wear in a glasses form. What's cool about this one is it runs a full thousand nits, and that plus the 1080P
resolution means that, in my opinion, it's
actually pretty usable. My problem with some of the other options that are out there is
just, they're too dim to be all that practical,
but talk about bright. Come with me. So someone's standing in
front of it right now. I found the coolest monitor at all of CES, the ROG Swift OLED. This is a 27-inch, 1440P OLED that has not only 1,300 nits
of brightness, but 480 hertz. That's right, 480 frames per second, is 450 frames per second
more than I usually can see. Wait, what? - [Ken] What? No. That, what? What?
- Yeah, I have 30 hertz eyes. That's what I said. I'm just gonna go with it. So obviously in a YouTube video you can't see the difference here, but they've got the screen test going, We've got 60, 120, 240. 240 looks great, but the thing with the 480 hertz, because obviously you have to keep in mind that running a game at that kind of frame rate is very difficult, but at that kind of level, not
only do you get the fluidity, but you get the motion stability, right? So like as I look at the,
like, crispness of the images as they fly by, it is
crystal, crystal clear, and it's also incredibly bright. So this will be going on
sale for a little bit. It's going to be expensive,
as you would expect, but talk about like the
ultimate gaming display, OLED, bright, insanely high refresh rate. I saw this, and I just tunnel
vision, man, tunnel vision. There's also the ROG Phone 8. So this is a big step
forward for the ROG Phone, mostly because it no longer
looks like a gaming behemoth. So they've slimmed and
trimmed it down significantly while still keeping the huge
battery and the great cooling, and I'm excited to actually
spend some time with it because between the ROG
Phone and the Zenfone, Asus are getting some stuff going, there were some rumors not that long ago they were maybe killing off the Zenfone entirely, but instead, we're seeing is some of
the best phones they've made in a long time. (air whooshing)
This is Clicks. It is a physical keyboard for the iPhone, co-founded by my good buddy, Mr. Mobile, AKA. Michael Fisher. You've actually got a product. - I do. - You stopped making
videos for five minutes and actually made something. - For five minutes. I'll be back to making videos tomorrow, don't worry.
(Austin laughing) - But today I have a product. It's called Clicks. It is a full QWERTY keyboard. There's 36 keys, polycarbonate row of these on a liquid silicone case. - Can I just say that the yellow was absolutely the right call? - Thank you. - Where did this idea come from? Because I'll be honest. I haven't used a physical keyboard on a phone in a long time. - A number of years. - (laughs) It's been a little bit. It's been a little bit. Where did you even come up with this idea? - Here's the thing. We had to throw away keys for the smartphone to
evolve, 17 years ago. Like, Steve Jobs was right, right? We're not trying to turn back the clock because everyone loves their phone. It's great. The thing is, when we threw
away all of the buttons, we threw away a lot of
utility that comes with them, but it is a much more
different, much more satisfying, I will say, to be a little pretentious, much more human experience. - [Austin] Yeah. - To type on physical keys
than it is to tap on glass. - [Austin] So you've got yourself not only a backlit keyboard, but on top of that, it
integrates seamlessly. So there's no need for an extra battery. You still have MagSafe pass-through, but the major advantage is
giving you that tactile feedback and getting back the screen real estate. - Not gonna be for everybody. The people who miss it will
definitely appreciate this, and the people who've
never tried it, I hope, some of them realize
what I'm talking about. - [Austin] So right now
it's only for iPhone, right? - Correct, only for iPhone 14
Pro, 15 Pro and 15 Pro Max, but it is not gonna stop there. We didn't just build a product. We built a company. So this will be the first of many. - [Austin] I would love to see the Z Flip
version of this. (laughs) - I would as well. I'm not allowed to talk. Don't make me do, because there's a lot of cool ideas I want to do. - Gotta say, man, this
is the kind of stuff that I love at CES, the
stuff that you don't expect. It's not always a big
shiny laptop or something. Sometimes these smaller,
neater, cooler things are what really leaves
a lasting impression. Good job, man. - Thank you, buddy. - Thank you for taking the time. - You're in my best at CES video now. - (gasps) Thank you. (Austin laughing)
(Michael laughing) (air whooshing) - CES has been good this year because there's been a lot of tech and a lot of mature tech. Stuff like OLED is
everywhere, transparent OLED, but on top of that, there's a good variety of actually practical, real AI demos. If you wanna see more,
on top of the videos that we've already done,
which I'll have linked, but we also have a Denki
video, which Ken has made, and oh, This Is video
that Matt and I made. So much to watch, so much to see. Thank you very much for
watching this video, though. (bell chiming)
Subscribe to the channel. I am gonna take a nap, finally.