(retro music) - Okay. So this is the DataHand Personal. It's a keyboard. It's weird. There's no getting around that. But, it's weird for a reason. It's more ergonomic, more comfortable, and can even make you a faster typer, or so they claim. So did DataHand systems go out of business because this is an awful
idea, a bad product, or is this bizarre board from 1995, the absolute best input
device you can't buy? Here's something you can buy. Our sponsor, Seasonic
and their power supplies. Never skimp on getting
a quality power supply for your current or next computer build. Check out Seasonic to find
award-winning power supplies and try out their wattage calculator to find out which one will
suit your needs, below. (upbeat music) Like many modern ergonomic keyboards, the DataHand takes a split board approach. It has two modules that
can be freely positioned however you like, according
to your own personal neck. Connected by an 18 inch D-sub cable that you'll have to buy an extension for if you want to take advantage
of the quarter inch threads on the bottom of the modules. Like, if you want to
mount them to your chair or to the included lap-lander. At its core, the DataHand aims to reduce the amount of movement and force required to register a key stroke. It's designed so that your
hands are resting comfortably on these cushy palm rests,
placing very little strain on the carpal tunnel muscles. And instead of having your
fingers curling and contorting in unnatural ways to reach keys, the DataHand has individual
wells for each digit, where each keystroke
requires only a half-inch of travel for your fingers. And each finger can press down, or in any of the four cardinal directions. The switches are optical, with the keys relying on
magnets to snap back into place. They're super sensitive though, to the point where accidental key presses are really hard to avoid, and sometimes even when your
hands are just resting on them, you'll suddenly get a bunch of
S's going across your screen. More on the learning curve in a minute. But, as for ergonomics, having each finger do
less work while moving in many directions, other
than one repetitive stroke, is a definite plus. Each module can be adjusted
for different hand sizes, by raising, tilting, or
rocking the key wells. And by choosing between
small and large palm rests at the time of ordering. So it's ergonomic as heck, but can it help you type faster? It seems like it could in theory, but the question is, "How long would it take you to get there?" - It should be used to
control a giant Mac. - Yeah, there is PS2 on the
other side of that, okay. - We're going to lttstore.com? That's my task? I wanna go to Monkeytype. That's delete. That's restart. No, this is, that's back. - This is incredibly difficult. - [Taran] How do I get to blue mode? - Oh, (bleep), there's another typo. - [Anthony] Oh God. Over. No, no, I did it. - [Employee] Well, that's a
terrible mouse experience. - Can I stop now? - [James] Yeah, you can stop now. - Yeah, I never want to use that again. - Despite it being a completely
different typing paradigm, the designers did try
and make it familiar. The layout is derived
from the QWERTY layout with most key clusters
corresponding to letters that you're used to hitting
with that same finger. However, it's not a perfect translation, and you can see why, T, Y, N and B on a regular keyboard are kind of in no man's land, so these have to be moved
to other random fingers, which definitely takes
some getting used to. Same goes with symbols, enjoy learning to type in apostrophe with your left hand's middle finger. Then you've got the thumb clusters. They've got modifiers
for switching layers, not unlike pressing shift
on a QWERTY keyboard except there's four layers. Granted, one of those is a mouse, which is awful, please God no, but at least it's there
for people who need it. But when combined with
the atypical layout, all of this makes the whole
thing pretty damn alien, when you first sit down
with it to be frank. Jesse who typically types at between 120 on 130 words
per minute on a QWERTY and got to around 40 words
per min on an ErgoDox, after a day of usage, tried the DataHand and after a half day, their best score was just
three words per minute. You just can't have
someone on your payroll typing that slowly, it's bad. In DataHand's own advertising, they say that it only takes a short time to get up to speed on the DataHand. But a short time is relative. This guy who ran a DataHand as
his daily driver back in '99, said it took him over a
month to get up to speed, and that was after actually
taking time off work to get used to it. That's a pretty steep cost. But then again, you can't
put a price on health. - [Jessie] Except in the states. - Except in the states. So let's say you're sold, should you rush out and
buy your very own DataHand? That's tricky because the company stopped selling them in 2008. Well, how about secondary markets? E-bay, Craigslist, maybe
Reddit, if you're lucky. The boards are out there, but they can be hard to find. We only got this one because
someone donated it to us completely out of the blue after being interested in. it for years, but maybe there's another way. A small, but very dedicated group is looking to revive the
spirit of the DataHand with their own projects
like Ben Gruver's lalboard, an open source keyboard. You can 3D print and build yourself. Here's Ben typing at 120
words per minute on one, which is times faster than
the average person can do on a standard QWERTY, all without wrist extension
and ulnar deviation. I have to admit, part of me
really wants to get into this, but maybe the DataHand
failed for a reason. Without a public
statement from the company or a reply to my LinkedIn
message to the founder, we can only speculate on what led to this curious keyboard's demise. But what we do know is that this device targeted a relatively narrow demographic and costs between 500 and 1,300 dollars depending on which model
you bought and when, which is really expensive,
even for ergo keyboards, which are often in the $400 range today, this means that DataHand relied on a limited number of sales
with one core product, plus a few wacky accessories
like the data chair. But in my opinion, the learning curve, must've been a big
contributor to the low demand. You needed some serious issues to justify investing the
time and the money required for this ultimate ergonomic solution. But today, today maybe you
just need to be a nerd, for my part, I'm really
interested in this concept, but I'd like to see some changes like perhaps an integrated trackball mouse for the people who need it, instead of this cartesian ball spit, I hate the mouse, and maybe a more optimized layout that doesn't even try to be QWERTY, because it's already
ridiculous to learn anyway. So you might as well
just use something that, I don't know, it puts all the vowels on your strongest fingers or something, but for everyone else who
needs an ergonomic solution, that's not so life-changing, just get an ErgoDox,
Moonlander or something. Thanks to Squarespace for
sponsoring today's video. Need a website, but
don't have the know-how? Well Squarespace makes it easy. There's a wide selection
of award-winning templates, all optimized for mobile, so it looks great on all your devices. You can create members only
content for extra revenue using Squarespace's member areas and grow and engage your audience with the powerful and easy
to use email campaign system, and if you ever need additional help, Squarespace also offers webinars,
full series help guides, or you can contact their
24/7 customer support by a live chat and email. So get started today and
head to squarespace.com/LTT and get 10% off your first purchase. So thanks for watching guys, If you liked this video, we have a bunch of other
weird keyboard reviews, check out the one that has no keys at all. That was fun to learn.