- Is DKOldies still scamming people? (camera shutters) Now, I did not want to make this video. Six months ago we took a look at DKOldies, and while it seems somewhat
promising at the beginning, by the end of that video,
it was a true horror show. So let's give them another try, shall we? So this all started with a tweet. "DKOldies controversy? Everyone was/is covered under our one year warranty. We listen to all customer's
feedback and improve. Check out our new and evolved
refurbishment process." So let's find out what they
need to be able to slap a DKOldies sticker on a device. "All consoles that are
deemed as not functioning and go through our repair process are opened in order to
troubleshoot and repair each component that is causing the console to not be functioning
in its playable state. Once the console is repaired and considered functioning, all components are
assembled and will go back through DKOldie's testing process." They do offer a one year warranty, which is not standard
for refurbished consoles. So last time when I got
consoles from DKOldies, we ordered it under a different name but shipped it here to the office and they were all in one big order. And I saw some comments, people saying, "Hey, a little sus, maybe they cotton onto it." So I went a little bit
over the top with this one. I split the order into two. It was ordered under different names, shipped to different addresses
that were not the studio, and used different credit cards. And to give them a small bit of credit I actually ordered these
during their Labor Day sale. So actually, all of these consoles were 20% off their normal pricing. So I'm going to evaluate them
based on that sale pricing. But I'm almost not gonna
cut them any slack either. (graphics whining) Let's take a look. So, I'm going to go with, let's go with this smaller box first. So this is order number one. This will be order number two. So we'll do this one in just a minute. First of all- - [Alex] Am I the only one that's bothered by that one pink packing peanut? - [Matt] Yeah, yeah. - There is one, isn't there? Well, you know what, it's fine. That's fine. So first off, we have
our Xbox Players Pak. So this is an original Xbox - [Matt] One thing I just see immediately. - [Austin] Yeah. - [Matt] Which kind of rubbed me the wrong way the last time too. - Yep. - Are they upfront that
you are not getting a first party controller? - [Austin] They are.
- Okay. - So if you want a first party controller I don't know if it was for the Xbox, but I know feel PS2s
and PS3s, and whatnot. If you want a first party controller it's like a 20 or $30 upcharge. So this was listed as
a good condition Xbox. So the original price is $210,
although after the discount this was about 168, I believe. So let's see what good condition gives us. I will say first glance
seems to be pretty decent. A little scuff, there's some like, almost looks like a marker or something, but it's just probably
just scuffs in the plastic over the years. The jewel's in relatively good shape. We obviously gotta do
the smell test. (sniffs) Yeah, I don't know what
they do to clean these, but they smell delightful. To me, that looks like a very clean fan, which is a promising first sign that this one actually might
have been properly refurbished. This is a late model. So this is a 2004 Xbox. So this would've been
probably toward the end. And we can see that they
did access the screw which is underneath here. We do have a DKOldies warranty sticker over the other screw hole. So as always, if you want
to open up your console and see the quality of the inside, you're going to void the warranty. Although I don't think they
can really enforce that but fair enough. It's not like DKOldies is the only one who tried to void your
warranty for opening it up. - So for context, on eBay
I'm seeing original Xboxes with first party controller, anywhere from 85 bucks to about 125 bucks. - So my question is not so much what the actual price difference is, it's much more so, "Is
paying all the extra money for a DKOldies console actually worth it?" Well that's a good sign. It immediately pops up. Okay, let's play the
latest Forza Motorsport. The brand new game for 2023. Oh sorry. 2003 Forza Motorsport. - You've gotta be kidding me.
(Xbox whirring) Wait, no, no, no, no (chuckles). - [Ken] No. Get... No - This is not actually a thing. No, there's no... No, no, no, no, no.
(Ken laughs) You gotta be kidding. (whimsical music) (fist bangs) (whimsical music) - [Ken] Ah!
- What? (Ken laughs) - [Joanna] What? What? Wait, what do you... - [Alex] Hey-
- [Joanna] He just Fonzed it. Oh my God. - [Alex] Hey he Fonzed it. (all laughing) You know what?
(Ken laughing) (hug) this. Who cares? Let's just go, let's just go Goodbye copy of Forza Motorsport. We may never see your like again. I guess we could say that the
DKOldies Xbox does function. If you don't mind prying the disc open. Let's go! Mo powah baby! So let's see what's inside the Xbox, and maybe just maybe we can fix it. Here's the thing. So the disc drive actually
doesn't have anything obviously wrong with it, which is actually a
little bit of a downside. Oh, oh, holy (hugs) - Wow. That power supply is right
(hugs) there isn't it? Woo! Yikes! Okay. And we've got ourselves
a disc drive that's free. It's so huge. Look at the, just the
chungusy size of this thing. With our Xbox put back together, let's see if we can get this
disc drive to work for us, shall we? (Xbox whirring) - No, (chuckles).
(crew exclaims) I fixed it! Next up we have our Nintendo DS. So this is the original DS. Fun fact, I've actually, I don't think I've ever
bought an original DS. So this normally is
$150 in good condition. With the discount I paid $120 on sale. Which is, I would say,
double what a normal DS is. But, most DSs you find
have pretty rough hinges and also are nowhere near this
good of cosmetic condition. There are some slightly deeper
scratches on the touchscreen. But because this had a
stylus, I would struggle to find any used DS that does not have some of those scratches
on the touchscreen. I would say that's very much
in the the realm of normal use. It does come with a power adapter. And this is a third party power adapter, but that's totally fine. Here's one slight problem. Hang on, my battery's
getting a little low. Let lemme plug it now. Oh, oh. - [Matt] What's going on over there? What you doing?
(Austin blows) No. Oh.
- [Matt] Oh no. - [Ken] Is it broken? - Well the charger isn't working. - [Ken] Oh. - [Matt] Stop wiggling chargers. - [Matt] Oh.
- [Ken] Ugh. It should go in nice and smooth. - It should go in nice and smooth. I have retrieved a Game Boy Advance SP which uses the exact same cable. So let's see if this plugs in. Oh no, you know it's the charger. It doesn't wanna go in here either. It's sort of, if I wiggle it, yeah I've got a little
bit of a light but it's... Okay, so I do think they
just gave me a bad charger. So now I'm going to plug in an official Game Boy Advance SP charger which is the exact same as the DS. To show that this works, I'm going to plug this into
my Game Boy Advance SP. So we see it immediately
lights up, no problem. It goes in and out nice and smoothly. Now let's try the DS. Oh yeah, immediately, no problems at all. In, out. Okay. So yeah. So DS gets a pass. Fully functional, great shape. Might be my favorite
item that I've got here. Or at least it gets a
full pass on the outside. I haven't opened this up yet. But, seems to be fully functional. The main issue with this is the fact that it comes with
a basically broken charger. So if you look at this screw, so I just tried to open it up and you see that I've got a little bit of a scratch mark on that. These screws, the way I think they're
anodized or whatever. As soon as you open them
up you can start to see a little bit of scuffing. You see this screw and
there's also a screw in here. I don't believe that this was opened. Now there is certainly some ambiguity when it comes to DKOldies and whether or not they open the consoles. They say they will clean
them and open them. But I kind of take that to
mean that they open them by removing the battery
door or the CD tray, or something like that. I don't believe that they opened this DS. But it's not coming out at all. I got, I got it, I got it. - [Ken] No, no, no, no, no, no. - [Joanna] It's like pulling
a tooth or something. - Yeah, yeah. (laughing) It looks clean. - I'd say that's pretty clean. - Gimme gimme. - Sure, give it a try. - There's a screw here. - I took the seven screws out. - There's one right there. - That would explain why
it's really hard to get out. (Matt breathing deeply) Let's see what's inside the DS, shall we? - [Matt] Wow, look how easy that was. Such a simple...
(Matt laughing) - We cut nothing out. That was live in the seven seconds it took. The only thing I can say about this is that now that I've opened it up I actually have much easier
access to clean it properly. Before you can't get at
the edges quite so much so some of this dirt and
dust can't come off as well. But with that being said, the DS I think it's an unmitigated pass. I think it's clean, it's well maintained. I mean clearly this was a
very high quality console that I don't think DKOldies really needs to do anything with. Maybe they cleaned it up a little bit. I can't tell. But I mean contacts, everything
looks to be super clean. We've got ourselves the Game Boy Advance. So this is an end... Oh God, it's...(sighs) Let me show you what this good condition
Game Boy looks like. So there's a film on the screen which I'm gonna peel off in a second. But that's clearly not right. It does look great on the front. That's in good condition. This (sighs), um um. How much did I pay for
this Game Boy Advance? - [Alex] You paid, 150
normally and you paid 120. (Austin sobbing) - I'm gonna cry. Can I just say something? I'm gonna do this on camera. I'm curious. I do somewhat suspect that
they've replaced this screen. 'cause you can see there's
a little plastic piece. It looks like if you put
a new screen lens on it that's the way it came. I'm gonna peel that up live. I'm curious 'cause the screen
lens look super scuffed. But I'm curious if this was... 'cause I don't think it was original. Yeah. So I do believe that
they refurbished this one. That is definitely a new screen lens. As you can see it is absolutely mint. So there's nothing wrong with this door , even though it's clearly the wrong color. Do you see right here where this little clip's
supposed to go in there? That looks broken off to me. Now I can't say for sure without another Game Boy to compare it to, but it looks like where
this is supposed to go in it's just been snapped off. I will say the new screen lens they put in here does look really nice. Wait, wait, wait. Oh good lord. No it's not. If you look really closely
on the left and the right the screen lens seems like
it's slightly too small. So you actually see some of
the edges of the display, especially when you get in the light you can definitely notice it. All right gang. Let's see what's inside
the Game Boy Advance. Oh. Oh actually that's quite nice. Wow. - [Matt] I forgot how nice that board looked. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, this is actually in really good shape. So the contacts are slightly
worn but not too bad. Again, I don't know if they
definitely did stuff to this, but it does look clean. I actually will say, now
that I've removed the shell, both buttons are clicking better. There's not a whole lot to
say with the Game Boy Advance. It's very clean, the
speaker's a little dirty. But I mean honestly, considering the age, this has either been
really well taken care of or DKOldies did actually
open this up and clean it out 'cause I've seen much, much worse. Next up, we've got
ourselves a Game Boy Color. Uh oh. So that's not a good looking screen lens. Holy. This Game Boy Color was
$150, discounted to 120 in good condition. So looking at it on the back, again, I will say this is
clearly the original shell. So if I pull this up, yeah it does have the
little DKOldies sticker. Contacts are actually pretty clean. It does have the original sticker here, which that's very, very standard. I mean I feel like mine looked
like that when I was a kid after a year. And while they did do a
good job of cleaning it up, there's a lot of actual plastic missing, will be the way I would describe it. So if you look here,
plastic's been worn down. So around the d-pad, over by
the Nintendo logo over here. It's physically just been
worn down over the years with honestly probably just
finger rubbing and sweat and whatnot. Because I wanted to try
purchasing a game from DKOldies, which apparently is something
that a lot of people do. I purchased this, a copy of Pokemon Red. One question I have is whether or not they've
replaced the battery. So it's not necessary for all games, but specifically Pokemon games. There's a little, I think it's a CR 2032. A little watch battery that
lives inside the cartridge which helps to keep your save file intact. - Kind of all over the
place with Game Boys again with conditioning. But for a good condition,
I'm seeing about 90 bucks. - I guess what we can
say about the Game Boy is that it's actually not
an egregious price here. Now, outside of the scuffing I do think this is gonna
work, but let's find out. - [Matt] That is a good looking screen though. - Well if you look at, but look at this huge scratch right here. - [Matt] Oh yeah, yeah. - Yeah, it's not actually... Yeah, there you go. That's what the screen looks like. - [Matt] Oh no. - [Ken] Oh, Jesus Christ. - [Matt] Okay. From our angle, that
changes it drastically. - Yeah. Cool. Great. Let me go through the
tutorial, try to save the game and see if it saves. Okay, so it does let me continue. Oh that is a new battery. Yeah, that's definitely a new battery. Okay, so you know what,
I will give them that. They did actually swap out the battery. To be fair, the Game Boys
are quite easy to work on. Now the only thing I'm looking for here, everything seems to be
quite good condition. I'm just looking to see
how easy it is to swap that screen lens. So all I need to do is just
remove this, which I'm... You know what? I'm just gonna do it. Whatever. There are all my buttons too. See, here comes the fun part. Can I peel this 20 year old foam off without it completely collapsing on me? 'cause I don't think I can. So now with the screen liberated, I will say the screen actually
is in fairly good shape. So I could actually reuse this screen. But what is a problem is
my actual screen lens. Which I think can just come loose here. One moment please. - [Joanna] Oh no. - [Ken] Oh, I don't like that. - [Joanna] Oh no, Austin. - [Ken] What are you doing? - Nooo.
- [Matt] Bro. - They put a new screen lens in. (Ken laughs) - My bad, Joey. - [Matt] You just lost all credibility in this video whatsoever. - It was a really well
applied screen protector. - [Matt] You are a quack. - Yeah. Boy that looks a whole lot better. Okay, so you know what? Remember that stuff I said about the screen being a little scratched on the Game Boy Color. (mimics stuttering) My bad. Whoops. - [Ken] I can't believe he gaslit us into thinking that DKOldies was bad. - Well, okay, now.
(Ken laughing) Okay, so I did purchase A Wii U. So this is the Wii U gamepad. - [Matt] (laughs) Why? - Because the we use Wii U is good Matt. It was, it was okay. Yeah, you know what this is all right. I think this is fine. A little slightly scuffed, but considering that this
is all shiny black plastic I'll give them that. This seems fine. Ah! (laughs) What? Wow! That's a lot of scratches. That is just, ah good Lord. Technically, this is
probably in good condition. It is really, really, really scuffed up. Matt, is this where you tell me that I could buy a Wii U
on eBay for like $17 and- - [Matt] How much did you pay for it? - So it was 175 after
their discount, over double if it was original.
- [Matt] To get one that actually doesn't
have scuffs and whatnot. - Yeah, you're paying a lot on that one. - [Matt] $285.
- [Austin] Yeah. - 'cause if you've used your Wii U at all it probably looks like this. So I've got it plugged in. I do have a power LED,
so that's a good sign. Here's one of many
problems with the Wii U, It's slow. Yeah. But you can really see that this screen has seen better days. It's significantly darker
and yellowed on the bottom. Well it does come with Mario Kart 8. - [Ken] The black one
came with Mario Kart 8 for the longest time as a bundle. I know because I-
- It wasn't digital though. Was it? - [Ken] I have a feeling that it was. - [Joanna] Oh, Matt heard Nintendo and then- - [Austin] Hold on. Wait. - Nintendo sucks. (mimics Mario Kart theme song) - And I have a mushroom now I think. (Matt and Ken mimic Mario
Kart sound effects) - [Matt] Oh no!
- Ah! - [Matt] We just did all of
that for you to get fourth? (console beeping) - Okay, so I know this one. So if I remember correctly, this is the only console I've purchased, which was not in good condition but in acceptable condition. This is a PSP 1000. Ready? And... - Ah! No! No! No! No, no, no, no, no. Oh good lord. That's not acceptable, there's fricking... Yo, it comes with one
gig Memory Stick Duo. That's worth hundreds
of dollars on its own. - [Matt] The sad thing is that's accurate. - Without considering sale pricing. This is typically $150 for good condition and a hundred dollars for acceptable. And because it was on
sale, I got it for 80. Wow, those scratches are bad though. I mean, I guess I'm not
surprised, but like, ugh. Okay, PSP actually does
seem to be functional. Let me actually throw a game in here. "Star Wars Battlefront:
Renegade Squadron." You know, I will say something, I'm surprised that that PSP
UMDs have held up so well considering that this is
like a spinning optical disc and a handheld portable. I just kinda assumed that, you know, after almost 20 years they
would've all collapsed into dust. You see the left side. So you see on the right side, no play, left side, a lot of play. I do think that the mechanism
is kind of worn out. It's closed and working, but
you see that it's got like- - So I hate to break it to you. - What? - That is also weirdly normal. - Okay? - My PSP 1000, very much
wiggled on one side. - God, I forgot how hard
it was to do a third person or first person shooter
without a second analog stick. And I'll say I've never
taken apart a PSP before, but what could go wrong? So I could tell you something. Yeah, they didn't open this thing up because the screws are
dirty and rusty as hell. I'm not making any progress. 'cause the screws isn't turning. I'm just like wrecking my thread. You gotta try man. It's bad. Oh, you actually get it. - Teamwork makes a dream work. - It's gonna be really hard to get, but can you see how much rust
is on the top of that screw? It's very, very small. So I've ordered not only
a new screen, a new lens, probably are gonna need to
get a new battery as well. Make sure to subscribe. I'm actually gonna do a YouTube short all about refitting this
with some functional parts. But for now let's see how much work I
actually really have to do to it. Warranty... Oh yeah, they definitely did get into it. You see the warranty void
sticker has not been removed so it's definitely
still never been opened. Alright, let's see if I can actually... Oh, oh. Okay. Well that actually came
apart really nicely. Ooh. Ooh. This is a good sign. It's a good sign. Okay. So I'm removing this sort of top shell and I can immediately say,
while all my buttons fall out, that the damage is entirely on the shell. You can see that it all has
come up nicely together. There's a bunch of stuff
that's dangling off here, but that's a really good sign. Now I'm gonna go ahead and be swapping out the display anyway. But, the good part about this is that I'm gonna be
swapping out this display for a much brighter, more modern IPS. But the actual damage to
this PSP, man, you know what? DKOldies could have fixed
this by spending $9 on Amazon and buying a new cover for it. Let's pull out, I believe our
final console in this box, which is the PS3 Super Slim. And I will say that based
on that last console- (PS3 parts cluttering) - [Matt] (laughing) That's a great sign. - Well, this is gonna go well, isn't it? Behold, our PS3 Super Slim. That's... Oh yeah. Remember the disc drive didn't work well - [Matt] It didn't lock
or something before. - Yeah 'cause there was something
in the actual mechanism. It seems to function fine. So that's good. Yeah, so 168 bucks. But this is the same price,
the same everything really as the first time I
bought the PS3 Super Slim. So this should have a
250 gig hard drive in it. I'm just gonna just take
a quick little peek. Just you know, just to
make sure that I didn't get (chuckles) no hard drive in it. Yes, 250 gigabyte hard drive which is what should have shipped inside this PS3 Super Slim. So that part is all fine. What happened here? It's all smashed, you see? So that should be a flat piece of plastic. You see, especially right here. It looks like it was dropped. So I'm plugging in our Super Slim PS3. And can I just point
out, if you look at this, look at how far that moves. Do you see the whole plug
is moving around on me here. It's almost like the damage down here has maybe ruin some of
the structural rigidity of my power supply. - [Ken] What, you don't jiggle your cable. - You know, jiggle jiggle, not good when it comes to a cable. So I guess so far PS3
does seem to function. We're getting into the XMB. All right, that's a menu. We're seeing things happen. I still forget how much
of this thing's plastic. Look, it's literally all
plastic, every part of it. Oh you know what? Yeah, yeah, we are actually
good on the damage. You can see right here,
it didn't go through. So it's on the outside of the shell but there's like an inner piece here. I can remove this plastic shroud, but that didn't go all the way through - [Ken] Man, every time Austin takes apart
a PlayStation a fanboy cries. - No. Every time I take apart a
PlayStation someone at Sony cries 'cause they know that I do nothing good. Love the fact that there's a huge dent on the side of the PS3. Thankfully there is no
rust anywhere to be found. All of this combined with the
fact that DKOldies' pricing, even on sale, is quite difficult
to justify with most items. There are a couple that were okay. But most of these prices were quite bad. Now there has been some
evidence to make me believe that DKOldies has done some
modifications, some repairs, some replacements of some of the fans and some bits and bobs and certainly like the Game Boys were actually
quite clean on the inside. Same thing with the DS. And the big issue that
I have with DKOldies is that if I'm going to
be paying the premium that DKOldies are charging
I expect the best. I expect no issues. I expect it to be clean,
to be well maintained, to be fully repaired, fully refurbished. And I simply don't have that guarantee. Lemme know what you think about DKOldies in the comments below. I'm very curious. We tried to do this one as anonymously and as thoroughly as we
can and I'm just not happy. Just it's not, it still isn't it.