They were the sons and daughters 
of Japanese immigrants. They straddled two cultures - alien and distrusted   in both Japan and America. So much so 
to be relocated to internment camps. Then they were called into service 
and sent to the Pacific to read,   speak, and interpret for the United States. It is somewhat well known that America's most 
decorated fighting unit - the 442nd Infantry - was   made up of Japanese-Americans, 
going for broke over in Europe. In this video, a look at another 
set of Japanese-Americans who helped   unlock Japan for America and vice 
versa, saving lives on both sides. ## A Note
This story is not much talked about. So before we start, I want to recommend two of 
the source books that I leaned on for this video. I highly enjoyed Bruce Henderson's 
"Bridge to the Sun", which tells the   story of the Nisei and their 
experiences home and abroad. I also recommend "Nisei Linguists" 
by James McNaughton, published by   the US Department of Defense. Deeply 
researched with details of humanity   sprinkled throughout. Both are fantastic, 
meaty books and I hope you enjoy them. ## Beginnings
In 1909, in the California city of Burbank, John Fujio Aiso was born - the son 
of a Japanese immigrant gardener. Like many Japanese-Americans, John struggled 
with discrimination and prejudice in his youth.   Nevertheless, his parents emphasized 
the value of education and patriotism. In his family parlor, there hung three pictures 
- George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, and Jesus.   Aiso heeded his parents and excelled in his 
studies, graduating top of his high school class. He was elected student body president,   only to have the principal refuse to allow a 
Japanese boy to head up the student government. Aiso responded to hardships like these 
by studying harder and achieving more.   He went on to Brown University - studying a 
year in Tokyo before graduating. After that,   he went to Harvard Law to become a lawyer. He then worked in private practice for several 
years, taking corporate jobs in New York City,   Japan, and Manchuria before finally 
settling in California in 1939. Then   in May 1941, Aiso was drafted into the US Army. 31 years old, he reported for duty in Riverside, 
California. The Army master sergeant growled,   "Just what we need, another goddamned 
lawyer". The talented John Aiso was   thus put to work as a simple parts 
clerk in the motor pool - a waste. ## A Growing Need As early as 1940, the US Government 
realized that it needed to improve   its capabilities in the Japanese language. It was estimated that there were 
just a hundred White speakers of   Japanese at the time. The shortage 
became more important as tensions   rose between the United States and the 
Empire of Japan in the summer of 1941. War seemed imminent. If it were to happen,   they needed more language speakers. 
Funds were requested for a school to   train some Japanese language speakers. 
Those funds were reluctantly granted. Thus the 4th Army Intelligence school 
was set up first in San Francisco's   Presidio area. The top commander was 
Lieutenant Colonel John Weckerling. The school's commandant was 
the Danish-born Kai Rasmussen,   who had lived in Tokyo for four years 
from 1936 to 1940. Before that he spent   three years in the Philippines. 
He was the sole Japanese-speaker. Rasmussen began interviewing Japanese 
Americans for entry into the school.   Aiso was one of those interviewees, 
given a book of military terms which   he managed to read with a bit of difficulty. 
He passed, and was reassigned to the school. A few weeks later, Weckering offered Aiso the role 
of head instructor. Aiso at first turned it down,   intending to return to his fiancée and private 
law. But then Weckerling gets up from his desk,   puts his hand on Aiso's shoulder and 
says, "John your country needs you." Aiso later recalled, "No American person had   ever told me that America was my 
country." So he takes the job. ## Issei
To meet their Japanese language needs, the Navy set up schools at UC Berkeley and 
Harvard - recruiting only White people. By contrast, Weckerling and Rasmussen 
early on decided to recruit the children   of Japanese immigrants for 
their school - the Nisei. Their parents - the Issei - first came to Hawaii 
in the late 1880s to work on the plantations.   Many then moved over to the West Coast cities to 
work as shopkeepers, farmers and in the fisheries. Many Issei never intended to stay in the 
United States for very long. The goal was   to earn money working and then come back home 
with their earnings. But while many did return,   many others stayed - seeing that 
things were so much better in the   United States even while being 
denied American citizenship. In 1920, records show that 
there were 220,122 people   of Japanese descent living in Hawaii 
and the US Mainland. Then the United   States ended all Asian immigration 
with the Immigration Act of 1924. The Issei found their communities in three 
locations - their churches or temples,   social organizations, and the Japanese 
language schools. These were the ways   and spaces where they stayed in 
touch with their home culture. The Nisei are the children of the Issei,   torn between two spheres of culture and doing 
their best to straddle the line between them. ## The Nisei These Nisei are only one generation 
separated from their country of origin. Did they see themselves as American 
or Japanese? Will they be loyal to the   United States? In mid-1941, these questions 
and many others had not yet been answered. Special suspicion was cast on those 10-11,000 
Nisei who recently returned to the US from   Japan - the "Kibei" (帰米). Though in reality, 
many Kibei found themselves befuddled in their   supposed "homeland", ostracized for their 
funny accents, clothing, or mannerisms. But the Nisei recruitment decision went 
ahead on the basis of pragmatism. The   Japanese language was seen as simply too 
foreign for White students to handle. The   idea was to find those familiar with their 
mother tongue and just give them a brush up. ## The School Funnily enough as it turns out, many of the 
Japanese-Americans were quite Americanized. Surveys and interviews of the first 3,700 Nisei 
candidates found that 90% had only a basic grasp   of the Japanese language. This is despite 
them going to local language schools as kids. The Kibei were of particular interest. 
Many of them had returned to the United   States at the urging of the US 
Embassy to avoid being drafted.   But those individuals suffered the opposite 
problem. Their English was not good enough. And even for those with strong Japanese 
speaking skills, they could not read.   And those who could read, still needed 
to learn Japanese military terminology. The school began operations on November 1st, 1940 
with sixty students - two of them White - and   four Nisei instructors. Classes were taught in an 
airplane hanger on Crissy Field and orange crates   and boxes had to serve as desks. The students' 
first assignment was to chase away the rats. The classes were difficult and the 
students wished that they paid more   attention back during Japanese language school 
in their youth. They studied with intensity,   spending their off-time in nearby San Francisco. ## Pearl Harbor A month after the school opened, 
the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. After the attack, panic and Anti-Asian 
sentiment ran free. Wild rumors of   saboteurs attacking the shipyards or 
whatever. Disgusting insults yelled   on the streets. And Anti-Japanese 
demonstrations that turned violent. Three months after Pearl Harbor in February 1942,   President Roosevelt signed Executive Order 
9066, which authorized the forced removal of   some 122,000 Japanese on the continental West 
Coast to internment camps in six remote areas. It was chaos. The families were not 
given proper time to prepare and were   trying to sell their possessions or put 
them into storage. This evacuation and   subsequent internment was wrong 
and a stain on American history. It happened as the first class of 
linguists was graduating on May   1st 1942. About three-quarters of 
the students passed. The best ten   were held back as instructors, 
and the rest were sent overseas. Later that month in May 1942, 
the Military Intelligence Service   Language School as it was called would 
be moved to Camp Savage in Minnesota. It might have been for the better. San 
Francisco became a city at war. At night,   lights were blacked out to avoid bombings. Things 
got dangerous. John Aiso once got on a streetcar   after sending a telegram and a woman on the car 
with him began screaming for someone to kill him. ## Minnesota Camp Savage is a 132-acre camp on the 
outskirts of southern Minneapolis. The Minnesota governor Harold Stassen 
had told Rasmussen that he felt that the   state not only had "room physically, 
but also room in people's hearts." The first Camp Savage classes began in June 1942, 
with 200 students and 18 instructors. About 150   of the students were Nisei - frantically 
recruited before the evacuations. The   Army had stopped taking Nisei enlistments - 
unfairly disqualifying them for their race. The rush was on. The need for linguists was 
great and immediate. The class instructors cut   down the course length from 12 months - already 
quite intensive with Japanese military jargon,   codes, interpretation skills, 
and tactics - to just 6 months. Many studied from 8 am to 11 pm at 
lights-out. And they kept on studying,   with the help of lights under 
their blankets or in the latrines. Some of the Nisei faced ostracism from 
their own peers and even their families   for volunteering to enter 
the language school. A few   peers inside the camps - angry over the 
internment - even attacked them for it. But the Nisei volunteers felt 
that joining and serving was the   best way to prove their loyalty 
and trustworthiness as American   citizens. It also got them away from 
the boredom and dreariness of the camps. And their Issei parents largely 
backed them - despite feeling the   profound unfairness of being 
denied American citizenship,   forcibly evacuated out of their homes, 
and having their sons taken away for war. Over 6,000 Nisei would go through the six 
month intensive course. The effort strongly   escalated after the defeat of Germany 
in 1945 and sole focus turning to Japan. ## Moving Up Front The Nisei linguists were sent to 
the Pacific theater as translators,   interpreters, "cave flushers", and code breakers. At the start in the Guadalcanal 
campaign in August 1942,   the Nisei were given translation and 
interrogation work far in the rear. But it soon became clear that documents 
- often the Japanese soldiers' personal   diaries - carried valuable intelligence and 
critical time was being lost shipping them   back. By the time the Nisei translated 
them, the information was useless. And American soldiers had to 
be constantly reminded that   taking prisoners can yield valuable intelligence. So the Nisei linguists were brought forward 
to generate front-line intelligence. It was   a dangerous job. On the front lines, the 
Nisei had to dodge fire from both sides.   The Imperial Japanese considered them traitors, 
which could have meant torture and execution. On the other hand, the Americans 
soldiers cannot tell between a   Japanese or Japanese-American. So they shot 
at both all the same. John Aiso recalled how   the Nisei linguists needed bodyguards to 
protect themselves from their own cohorts. One tragic case - possibly - involved 
Sergeant Frank Hachiya of Hood River,   Oregon. While in the Philippines, he went ahead to 
interrogate a prisoner. But in the ensuing chaos,   he was shot - either by an enemy sniper 
or friendly fire. Before passing,   however, he managed to convey critical 
intelligence information and maps of   defenses. He posthumously received the 
Silver Star, but only after some time. Even outside the heat of battle, the 
Nisei had to endure the distaste and   distrust of the soldiers' hate for 
Japanese-looking faces. Those negative   feelings quickly vanished though 
when the Nisei proved their worth. General Alexander Patch - commander of the 
American forces at Guadalcanal - recalls   initially saying that he did not want any 
Japanese under his command. By the end,   he greeted each incoming Nisei linguist 
in person as they came off the transports. ## Achievements A 1945 report says that the Nisei 
linguists had translated over 20   million pages by the end of the war. 
They proved their worth many times over. I want to call out a few of the remarkable events,   but I recommend you check out this 
fantastic chronicle by Toshiaki Fukuhara. In early March 1943, US aircraft attacked a 
Japanese convoy bringing badly needed troops   to New Guinea. After what is called the 
Battle of Bismarck Sea, a complete roster   listing the names of 40,000 Imperial Army 
officers was found in an empty lifeboat. A team of Nisei translated the 14 
file cabinets-worth of documents,   giving them a near-complete picture 
of the Japanese military's current   strength. It was a remarkable intelligence coup. Much later, 40-50 Nisei were 
sent to the Battle of Iwo Jima,   where some of the most intense fighting 
occurred. One of the first to arrive - just   45 minutes after the first landing 
- was Sergeant Terry Takeshi Doi. He was a Kibei - American-born but   grew up in Japan. His Japanese was 
actually better than his English. Before the war, Doi was drafted into 
the Imperial Japanese reserve services,   which caused him to lose his American citizenship 
until a judge in Minneapolis restored it in 1944. At Iwo Jima, to convince Japanese soldiers 
to come out of their caves and surrender,   Doi would strip naked except for a flashlight 
and knife and crawled down into the caves   shouting - saving many lives and earning him 
a Silver Star. A declassified report said: > "There was nothing but praise for the 
Nisei boys, particularly a boy by the name   of Doi ... there is a story about him that 
people tell which goes something like this.   He was continually going into caves with a 
knife and flashlight and hollering to the   enemy to 'get the hell out or else'. 
Mr. Doi's middle name is now 'Guts'." Another Silver Star recipient 
was Sergeant Kenji Yasui,   who once swam across the Irawaddy River 
in Burma to get to some holdout soldiers. He cramped up halfway and nearly drowned, but 
got across and then immediately started barking   orders like as if he were an officer - 
commanding the soldiers to surrender. Eventually, Yasui got 13 out of the 17 
holdouts to come back with him. One of   the other four blew himself up with a 
grenade trying to take Yasui with him,   but failed. What a bad ass. The stories go on 
and on. Unfortunately we must move on as well. ## Mixed Feelings The Nisei were constantly aware that they were 
fighting a people who looked just like them. Many of the documents they translated 
were personal letters or daily diaries,   which constantly reminded them that the soldiers   they were fighting were humans with 
lives, friends, lovers, and family. Sometimes they were asked to "role-play" as the 
Japanese Army for training purposes - wearing   Imperial Japanese Army uniforms 
and using Imperial Army guns. It   always made the Nisei profoundly 
uncomfortable. And for their part,   the 442nd fighting over in Europe became 
extremely agitated when they heard about it. For these reasons, the Nisei brought a 
rare sense of empathy and sensitivity.   Their cultural awareness helped them crack 
stubborn prisoners. A common interrogation   technique was to tell the stubborn soldier that 
their family would be notified through the Red   Cross that they had been captured alive. The 
implied disgrace usually got them to cooperate. The Nisei linguists had friends and even 
relatives in the Imperial Japanese Army.   They worried that they might see a face 
they knew in battle or the POW camps.   These concerns intensified in 1945, with the 
invasion of Japan seemingly ahead of them. That invasion never happened due to 
the atomic bombings in August 1945,   which left them with profoundly mixed 
feelings. A significant number of   immigrants came from Hiroshima and 
its destruction distressed them. But they told themselves that an 
invasion would have been worse. ## After The War The Military Intelligence Service Language 
School reached its peak size after the   war in Japan ended. Their services were 
needed even more so to “win the peace”. Over 5,000 Nisei were sent there for intelligence, 
disarmament, tracking down war criminals,   securing military supplies like meth, 
and interpreting in war crimes trials. Many began documenting events that 
happened during the war years. And   150 or so Nisei - nicknamed the 
"Zebra Platoon" because they   were all sergeants - helped censor letters, 
telegrams, books, magazines and newspapers. In support of this, the Military school's 
curriculum switched away from military   terminology to civil and government content, 
helping the Nisei serve their roles as the   bridges between the local Japanese 
and the English-speaking authorities. In 1946, the school returned to California. 
Today, the Defense Language Institute Foreign   Language Center continues to educate people in 
a variety of foreign languages and cultures. ## Conclusion At the War's end, Lieutenant 
Colonel John Aiso was the   highest ranking Japanese American in the US Army. After the War, he goes back to legal 
practice and becomes a judge in the   Los Angeles County Superior Court 
and the California Court of Appeal. Then in 1987, the 78-year old Aiso is 
pumping gas at the station when he is   attacked and shoved to the ground during an 
attempted mugging - reportedly by a Black   transient. Two weeks later, he passes away in 
hospital - a sad ending to a wonderful life. The work the Nisei linguists did for their country   helped the Americans achieve victory 
in World War II, while also bringing   the human touch and sensitivity that only 
those with feet in two worlds can bring. As someone similar, I am 
grateful for their sacrifice.