The hard disk drive used to be the 
most expensive part of a good PC. And it remains a wondrous piece of 
technology. Magnetically enabled heads,   literally flying over glass platters 
- writing or reading gobs of data. How can such a technical miracle also be such 
a graveyard for profits for years on end? In this video we look at the birth, boom, 
and bust of the Hard Disk Drive industry. ## Beginnings In 1952, IBM asked a former high school teacher   named Reynold B. Johnson to lead 
a new research lab in San Jose. Johnson was a talented inventor. Early 
in his life in the 1930s, he invented   a machine that could grade pencil-marked 
multiple choice tests. Yes. The bubbles. Soon IBM bought the rights 
to his machine and hired him.  After inventing several new things,   IBM asked him to go out to San Jose and 
work on some new interesting projects. Back then, San Jose was a small agricultural 
city of about 100,000. IBM chose to put its new   research lab there largely because it was between 
major customers in Los Angeles and Seattle. Johnson had wide leeway to hire 30-50 
people and work on whatever interested   him. They took on a variety of 
projects, but one stood out:   A random access processing system to 
replace something called "tub files". Now, I have never heard of a tub file before. 
It is a part of a punched card system that   very quickly helped you access certain 
information out of the whole. It worked   okay in some use cases, but not so much 
in others like invoicing and inventory. Tub files are a form of "random access" - 
meaning that we can access any arbitrary   piece of information in a sequence 
at roughly the same amount of time. This is different from sequential 
access, where you have to cycle   through everything in the sequence 
first to get to the thing you want.   When it comes to memory systems, 
random is better than sequential. ## Disks The IBM team decided to explore magnetic recording 
systems to provide this random access function. A magnetic recording system stores 
data on some form of magnetic media.   A mounted head would then read or 
write that data off that media. The IBM team evaluated several forms 
of magnetic media - magnetic tape,   magnetic drums, magnetic plates, 
and even magnetic wires and rods. Johnson eventually used a stack of rotating 
magnetic disks, with each accessible using   read/write heads mounted on a common actuator. He 
liked this format because of how much surface area   it gave you for the size as well as the potential 
to access data on multiple disks at once. In an early prototype, they took about 120 
aluminum disks and stacked them together on   a shaft. Each disk was about two feet 
wide and spaced about a quarter of an   inch apart. The whole array spun 
at about 3,600 times each minute. ## Buiding RAMAC
There were two major technical issues to overcome. First, they needed to figure out 
how to evenly and smoothly apply   the iron oxide paint onto 
the surface of the disks. One engineer suggested spinning the disks at 
a high speed, and then pouring the paint - the   same paint used for the Golden Gate Bridge, 
by the way - at its center so that it spread   uniformly across the whole surface. This 
technique is now known as "spin-on". The second major problem had to do with wobble. 
The disks will wobble as they spin. How do you   keep all of the heads at least a thousandth of an 
inch above the disks' surface if there’s wobble? A team led by Bill Goddard and John Lynott 
integrated an air nozzle into the head.   So then we can use air pressure to 
push air through the head nozzles,   creating an air cushion that kept the 
head stable. Mounted on a single arm,   it would move up and down to the 
right disk to stick the head in. In 1956, IBM introduced the 305 “Random 
Access Method of Accounting and Control”   or RAMAC. RAMAC is a transaction processing system   built around what is widely acknowledged 
as the first hard drive as we know it. The drive was made up of 50 iron oxide-coated 
disks, each about 61 centimeters wide. It cost   a quarter of a million dollars, held about 4.4 
megabytes, and was the size of two fridges. These stats might sound ridiculously comedic 
today, but back then it was an engineering   marvel. Particularly mechanically - being 
able to retrieve data in less than a second. In his RAMAC product announcement 
on September 4th 1956, IBM President   Thomas Watson Jr. said that it was the 
"greatest product day in IBM's history". Production ramped up in the San Jose 
factory. The first RAMAC was shipped   to the Zellerbach Paper Company 
a short whiles away. In 1959,   Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev visited 
the RAMAC factory as part of his US tour. ## An Industry is Born IBM made the disk drive a necessary part 
of the computer and an industry was born. First, the other computer makers 
like General Electric and Burroughs   started producing their own hard disk drives. Then independent disk companies - 
Bryant Computer Products and Data   Products - popped up. They offered third 
party hard disk drives to those computer   makers lacking the expertise or 
capital to produce their own. During the mid-1960s, Japanese players 
like NEC, Fujitsu, and Hitachi started   producing their own hard drives too. 
Being vertically integrated players,   what they made was only for internal consumption. Then in 1966, IBM introduced its 2314 
File Facility and their disk packs.   It not only offered more speed and performance,   but its 29-megabyte disk pack format made it 
easier for people to swap storage in and out. A new wave of independent companies 
copied the disk pack format and marketed   those products to IBM customers as being 
"plug compatible" with their hardware. ## Winchester
Throughout the 1960s, IBM continued to come out with world-leading innovations 
in hard disk drive storage. Their crowning moment came about in 1973 
when they first introduced the Winchester   drive. The name derives from a comment by 
IBM San Jose manager Kenneth E. Haughton. The original project spec was to 
have two spindles of 30 megabytes   each. Haughton heard people calling it 
a "30-30" and said: "If it's a 30-30,   then it must be a Winchester". 
The project nickname stuck. Up until then, the disks in the packs 
or the HDDs had been removable and   accessible. But this accessibility came 
with particle contamination issues. So IBM sealed off the disks, their individual 
arms, and motors inside a dust-proof container.   This not only fixed the contamination issues, 
but also gave the disks more storage capacity. That's because it let them cut the distance 
between the head and the disk surface to a   thousandth of what it had been with the RAMAC. 
The closer the head, the more data-dense   the disks can be. So the Winchester cut the 
cost-per-megabyte over competing designs by 30%. The Winchester design became an 
industry standard. IBM set the   blueprint for all other such devices 
since. For a long time thereafter,   people didn't call HDDs "hard drives". 
They called them "Winchester Drives". ## Shugart One of the guys working on the Winchester's 
early development was a guy named Alan Shugart. Born during the Great Depression, 
Shugart graduated from the University   of the Redlands and went to work 
for IBM at the San Jose lab. There Shugart led various memory 
projects. One of which was a small,   cheap read-only device for transferring very small 
programs from one computer to another. IBM called   it the "Type 1 Diskette" at its release in 1973, 
but nowadays we more know it as the floppy disk. Anyway, Shugart would have stayed at IBM his 
whole career. But then IBM transferred him   to New York. He did not want that. So badly he 
literally commuted back to San Jose on weekends. Thus he quit in 1969 and joined a company called 
Memorex, a memory tape maker, for three years. Then after that, he started his own 
company - Shugart Associates. But he   clashed with his fellow cofounders 
over direction and equity and left. Shugart Associates went on to dominate the 
eight inch and then the 5.25 inch commercial   floppy drive markets. Xerox acquired them 
in 1977 for $41 million. Not a bad exit. ## Shugart 2 After leaving the company with his name on 
it, Alan Shugart tried some other stuff. Did some salmon fishing. Ran a bar or 
whatever. In the end, he decided to come   back to memory and found another company 
in Scotts Valley in Santa Cruz County. The company's original name 
was Shugart Technology,   but that was too similar to Shugart 
Associates. So Alan tried to think   of a different name - with an S at the 
start, T at the end, and a G in the middle. He went with Seagate. In founding 
Seagate, Shugart sought to adapt   the IBM Winchester drive for the then-burgeoning 
microcomputer - what we today would call the PC. PC-makers had adopted Shugart Associates' 
5.25 inch floppy drive. Seagate decided to   build a hard disk drive that can fit in the 
same space but also offer far more capacity. By the way, the 5.25 inch floppy itself 
came about at the behest of the brilliant   Dr. An Wang of Wang Laboratories. 
Wang felt that the original 8-inch   floppy was too big and expensive 
and had asked for a cheaper version. Anyway, in 1980 Seagate announced 
their ST506 hard drive. Its 5   megabytes of storage far outclassed a 
floppy disk's 160 kilobytes of data. Despite being priced at over $1,000 each, 
the HDD was an immediate hit. The company   made $9.8 million revenues in 1981. And then $40 
million and $110 million the years after that. ## Engineering Marvels We should take a pause to catch our breath and 
revisit the technologies behind the 5.25 inch HDD. The core concept had not changed all 
that much from the days of the floppy   disk or RAMAC. There are four key sub-components: The platters, motors, read-write 
heads, and the supporting electronics. Bits of data are stored on tracks 
written onto these double-sided platters,   which today are made from glass substrates. We mount the platters on spindles and use the   motors to spin them 3,600 
to 7,200 times per minute. The data is then accessed by the heads,   which "fly" over those platters 
- positioned by actuators. Electronics help position and support these 
items. They monitor the heads' movements as   they align and un-align. They feed 
information back to the actuators. So yeah, HDDs today work the same way 
as the RAMAC. But that is kind of like   saying that the Ford Model T shares 
the same core concept as the Lexus LS   400. The engineering to achieve the core 
concept has been completely overhauled. Even that first 5-megabyte Winchester 
HDD from Seagate was an engineering   marvel. Seagate's engineering VP Doug 
Mahon remarked then that it was like   a Boeing 747 flying at Mach 4 
just an inch off the ground. That was back then. Today, the heads fly as 
little as 3 nanometers above the disk surfaces. Producing these machines requires lots of capital 
expenditure to build or source the components,   assemble them inside expensive cleanrooms, and 
test them before shipping out to the customer. ## Commoditization So how did the market turn all this 
amazing engineering into a commodity? There have been a few reasons. Computer memory 
- particularly secondary memory - is generally a   commodity. The customer always wants more storage, 
and is willing to jump to someone else to get it. "Brand value" never really gained traction 
in the HDD industry. PC users upgrade their   systems because of something new. Like a new 
version of the Windows OS or an Intel CPU. I   cannot imagine many people would buy a new PC 
because Seagate or Quantum released a new HDD. As a result, PC assemblers played each HDD 
maker off each other - buying whoever met   the spec for the lowest price. IBM is 
notorious for this. They sourced almost   all of the HDDs for their rapidly growing PC 
business in the early 1980s from startups. In 1983, IBM released their PC-XT - the 
followup to the legendary first PC. It   had a 10 megabyte HDD sourced largely from 
startups - Seagate, MiniScribe, and IMI. IBM demanded heavy qualification 
programs and second-sourcing from   those suppliers. They also refused 
to enter into long term contracts,   rightly thinking that it did not make sense 
to when the market was moving so fast. ## Piling In So that is from the customers' perspective. 
Let us talk a bit about piling in. The HDD itself is a modular device. The 
four components are precisely engineered,   but separate. And only two contribute to storage   capacity and other performance metrics 
- the platters and the read/write heads. So new HDD firms can tweak one of these two 
critical parts to create a new improvement.   Then integrate those bits and quickly bring a 
new product to a market hungry for innovation. Furthermore, the HDD firms did 
not at first protect their trade   knowledge and innovations 
with patents. The community   of HDD researchers was small and ideas 
flowed freely from one firm to another. But whenever a new firm managed 
to come out ahead by deriving a   new hit format or technology, the 
competition very quickly pulled   together something of their own. That 
then sucked out any profit to be had. For instance, in 1983 the Scottish firm 
Rodime first produced - and more importantly,   patented - a 3.5 inch HDD format. They were one   of the few European HDD startups 
to be seen as a relative success. The 3.5 inch format did not gain 
substantial popularity until 1986,   when another company called Conner Peripherals 
started selling it in large quantities to Compaq. The new format's popularity invited massive 
competition and Rodime could not keep up with   their competitors' scale and capability. They 
filed for bankruptcy twice in 1989 and 1991,   and evolved into a patent troll. Which is sad. Here is a later example. Giant 
magnetoresistance or GMR is a   Nobel-winning quantum effect discovered in 
Germany and France. It revolutionized the   HDD's read/write head, allowing for 
more area density and thus storage. Despite being discovered in Europe, an 
American firm IBM first commercialized   GMR in 1997 with a 16.8 Gigabyte 
HDD. American competitors Seagate   and Read-Rite had their own GMR 
heads two years later in 1999. And then there were the Japanese, 
who rapidly licensed and bought their   own GMR technology. Toshiba announced 
their first GMR-equipped HDDs in 1998. One of Toshiba’s later products was a tiny 1.8 
inch HDD. Famously, they had no idea what to do   with it. But Steve Jobs and Jon Rubinstein 
did, using it for the Apple iPod in 2002. ## Venture Capital
This wave of new firms crashing into the market was funded by a flood of 
hot venture capital money. The end of the 1970s saw changes in the 
capital gains tax rates and pension fund   investment regulations, which enabled 
the rise of venture capital or VCs. Seagate went public in September 1981, a 
little over a year after first launching   their HDD in 1980. They raised $26 million, and 
the market assigned them a favorable multiple. Seagate's VCs made good money. After the IPO, 
their $1 million investment was worth over $32   million. It paved the way for how VCs would 
invest and cash out their investments today. By mid-1983, there were 12 VC-backed 
HDD manufacturers publicly traded   on the stock market, and their 
total market cap was $5 billion. The market was hot. So VCs raised big funds and 
poured that money into the disk drive industry,   recruiting smart people from established 
companies to found these startups. From 1977 to 1984, 43 different disk drive 
manufacturers raised $400 million. In 1983   and 1984 alone, 21 startups raised over 
$270 million over 51 rounds of funding. By then there were something like seventy 
firms in total. So when the PC market first   pulled back in 1983 and 1984, it triggered a huge 
shakeout. Many of the startups did not survive. Nevertheless, this Zerg rush of entrants vastly 
changed the market. In 1978, 84.8% of the market   was held by the old vertically integrated 
HDD companies. A little over ten years later,   the Old Guard had just 7.9% share. They 
were essentially driven out of the market. ## Globalization In the beginning, US firms dominated the 
industry. But competition came in from abroad. Japanese and European companies 
did enter the market. The four   big Japanese computer makers - Fujitsu, Hitachi,   NEC and Toshiba - originally produced their HDDs 
for internal use only but shifted to an OEM model. However, despite some interesting innovations they 
initially failed to make serious headway into the   market. That is because the Americans themselves 
aggressively globalized their manufacturing. In 1984, Seagate began outsourcing the assembly   of its HDDs to Singapore. Several 
other American HDD-makers followed. This move was facilitated by the Singapore 
Government's Economic Development Board in   one of the most famous cases of 
Asian industrial policy. By 1990,   Singapore was the world's largest producer 
of HDDs with 55% share of shipments. When Singapore's labor costs also rose, low-value 
work like assembling the actuator arm holding the   read/write head emigrated to other Southeast Asian 
regions like Malaysia or Thailand. Singaporeans   took on new tasks like fabricating the platters 
or assembling more specialized HDD systems. For information about this, I did 
a video a long time ago about the   history and challenges of Thailand's HDD industry. The Japanese did eventually "cache up", 
outsourcing their production abroad as   well. And in the early 2000s they even 
captured majority share of the HDD market   when Hitachi merged with IBM before competition 
and mergers again eroded their advantage away. ## Responses This intense competition and globalization 
created enormous benefits for the consumer. From 1976 to 1987, the HDD's 
data density grew 20 times over. In 1977, a megabyte of data storage cost 
$560. In 1986 it was $11.89. By 1990,   that had fallen to just $6.86. 
And then 1998, 4.3 cents. Cents! But that was a situation that 
cannot sustain. The technology   matured and companies began exiting the market. There is a whole Wikipedia page 
about all the defunct hard drive   firms and when they exited the market. It is long. The number of HDD firms peaked in 1990 with 66. 
The next four years saw the number of firms cut   in half to 33. Failures included companies 
we never heard of like Peripheral Memories,   Comport, PrarieTek, Priam, and Tulin. By 
1998, there were “only” 16 firms left. Yet even after that vicious shakeout, the 
market still had too many players. Between   2006 and 2015, the top four HDD vendors 
had total average market share of 52.5%. So four more major HDD firms exited 
the market from 2000 to 2010 - Quantum,   IBM, Maxtor and Fujitsu. They were 
laggards and with the market maturing,   saw no way forward other 
than to combine to grab size. Even IBM - the HDD's inventor - decided to exit. 
While they made some money from patent-licensing,   their own HDD division struggled to gain 
more than 25% of the market. In 2002,   they merged their HDD operations with 
Hitachi's. A sad end to a storied history. ## Conclusion Today, there are three major HDD makers in the 
market - Seagate, Western Digital and Toshiba. They continue to manage their market 
share as the HDD fades into history,   replaced by new items like Solid State 
Drives. It is unlikely that they will   ever be totally replaced, but the growth 
- and the innovation - is largely gone. Looking at this crazy boom and bust in HDDs,   it is interesting to look at how the 
American firms' aggressive globalization   allowed them to retain significant market 
share in the face of competition from Asia. By the mid-1990s, there were no more HDD assembly 
factories in the United States. But higher-paying   American jobs in R&D, head manufacturing, and 
gimbals have remained - essentially saved. I do wonder what could have been different to 
avoid such a brutal knife fight in the industry.   Maybe an architectural decision here, or there. 
Or maybe that is how it was fated to play out.