- Hello, my friends and welcome
to a very special occasion. We've traveled all the way
out to Overland Park, Kansas, to visit our sponsors at Micro Center for one simple challenge. I'm going to build the greatest
gaming PC known to mankind. - Now, hold up. If you're gonna build the greatest PC, then I'm gonna put you up to the challenge and try to best you. - That's impossible. We have to build PCs and
they're going to live here. (button clicking) Oh, look at that. (button clicking) - How convenient. - Whoa, whoa, whoa. - If you would like to come
into the Overland Park store before October 2nd, you can come and vote
on our builds in person. I think I need to get some ideas, so. - Yes, I agree, and I actually, I have some seeds planted in my brain. I'm just here to build the
most ridiculous PC as I can. - [Austin] If you do not follow mryeester, you're probably unaware of
his ridiculous nonsense. Hmm. - Are we going straight for the RGB? Is this how you're gonna
try to win people over? (blowing raspberry) - Hey, I hear super glue
makes great thermal paste. You should try that. - You know, I actually have
in the past and it does work much better than you'd expect. Don't try that at home. Really hard to take off. So these are ATX standoffs. So these are the normal size standoffs that a computer would normally have underneath the motherboard. But I have an idea that's gonna take this maybe times 20 or times 50. - They also have a lot of graphics cards. The thing is, we're not
doing a straight gaming test. It doesn't matter to performance
by a huge amount, right? We're just trying to impress people. It's much more so about
the aesthetic than the um. - Performance. - [Austin] as we look at the cases. (button clicking) - Whoa, I'm just gonna give
him some extra help too. (button clicking) He needs it. - Oh this, look at this little guy. I never built this before. Thermal tape. I need to find something
even smaller though. I feel like I need to find something almost suspiciously small. My genius foolproof
plan is in full effect. Adam, would you like to
see what I've got here? - I would love to see, Austin. - How do you feel about GAEMS? - I love GAEMS. - GAEMS. I'm going to attempt to
build my entire gaming PC in a GAEMS VANGUARD case. Yeah you usually have a PS3
in there, or an Xbox Series S. - Oh, so you're gonna put
your whole entire motherboard and stuff where this
PlayStation is currently? - Yep. - I think we have something
cooler over there. - Oh, by all means. - I'm thinking, if I
wanna build the biggest PC as possible, why not build upwards? Look how much ceiling space we have here - That's pretty tall. - And so I brought this
secret, secret ingredient. These standoffs are probably
20 to 30 times taller than your normal motherboard standoff. - Are you gonna daisy chain them? - I'm going to stack
them as high as possible without the computer falling over. I do need to have some type
of base to build my computer. - And this is the base you chose? It says two person lift. - Well, you know that that
PC gym we were talking about? It's in full effect. This is the biggest case
that I've ever dealt with. - Look, I get it. I get it. You need to compensate. I'm not gonna judge. - We are ready to go. - Fair fight. - Good luck, sir. You're gonna need it. - You don't need this anymore though. - Oh, I don't need a CPU? - No. I've decided that I'm gonna
go for my dual CPU set up. But anyway, fair fight. Best of luck, my friend. - I don't have a CPU. - The number one thing I need to do is actually get my case out. I'm hopeful that I will have enough space to actually work in, 'cause
that's really gonna decide almost everything from this point on. I've tried to pick the
smallest components that I can. I may have more space than I think though. Uh oh. (chuckling) - There's some instructions
here for Xbox and PlayStation. Where's the PC instructions? - Instructions? Where we're going, we
don't need instructions. - Oh my gosh. I may have bit off more than I can chew. This case has like 200 parts to it. This is the third layer of styrofoam. - So vaguely think about it like this. Motherboard here. Running extra cables, I can
just slit a hole in the back here to run any cables in or out. And I can just kind of cinch this up. The good thing about this is that the actual PC part
is really straightforward. I've got my X570 AORUS PRO AX board, which importantly is an ITX board. And I'll have you know, I grabbed it off of the clearance section, because our good sponsors Micro Center, I gotta make sure I'm
repping their terrific deals available every day, but also specifically here
at the Overland Park store. - My case has too many parts. - Can I remind you that our flight leaves and about four and a half hours? - Oh, no pressure's on. - All right. Adam, you got your system done yet? - I got the case up, so
I'm just gonna install as much as I can into the motherboard before I can't reach it anymore. That'll include the SSD. We'll install this into the slots, and then we'll install the RAM, the CPU, plop on the cooler, and then
upwards and onwards we go. Whoa. - What happened there? - Fighting words. So I'm also using a Ryzen 5 5600, and I am actually gonna use
the pre-applied thermal paste, but I'm gonna spice
things up a little bit. Somewhere with me, I have brought an
inconspicuous little baggy, and this is the secret formula for beating Austin over there. - Hey your secret, what? - Oh no, sorry, what? Are you over in your section? You can. - No, I'm good actually. - Oh, oh, okay. But this here is 22 carats of finally grained diamond powder. And if you're unaware, diamond has some of the
highest thermal conductivity of all non metals. And thermal paste's job is to have really high thermal conductivity. And so I'm going to add a
little pinch of diamond powder into my pre-applied thermal paste to help increase the thermal
performance of the core. - That's either genius or the most ridiculous
thing I've ever heard. - Why not both? Don't try this at home, kids. Drop in a few little bits
of diamond, just like that. We are on the CPU. Let's go. - Look at this though. Look at my little baby 6500 XT. So a big reason why I chose this card is 'cause it had ITX on the box. And look, it's small. I mean, everyone knows the
6500 XT is the greatest card that AMD have ever created. Who needs more than two display outs? Am I right? At least it's very lightweight. So there we go. Does that look dumb? That doesn't look dumb, right? Are you getting a ladder? - It's an essential part of building a PC. - Oh my God. (laughing) - Is this not? - That's illegal. - Is this not what yours looks like? What are you doing over there? - I'm calling the police. - They're gonna have to
get me down from up here. - [Austin] If you breathe on it though, you're gonna snap something. - Yeah, if you could walk
carefully around here. - No, no, you know what? I wanna see this. - All right, so. - You ready?
- Yes, so I need. - Which orientation do you want? This way? - This side up here, yep. - Okay. Hey Adam, you know, you didn't have to pick
such a heavy motherboard that I'm gonna have to hold over my head for the next 10 minutes. - I just, I really
wanted to make you sweat. - Can I just point out that there's a growing group of people waiting for this to collapse who just are coming to spectate? The train wreck is incoming. - Yeah, here's the moment of truth. Yeah, let's go. - [Austin] None of these are straight. - Hey, but at the end of
the day, it's standing. But now we still have to
plug in a graphics card and all of the power into it. - What's this we? No, please don't touch. (laughing) This is gonna be the caution
tape, 15 feet around. - While Adam is building the
leaning tower of questionable, I am ready to do my first test boot. I want to, before I do
anything more final, actually just make sure
everything will fire up and work correctly. Otherwise, I'm gonna be in some trouble. Fire up the games. Power supply on. Oh. (sighing) I was stressed there for a second. Okay, so we've got fan action. I've got RGB on the bottom of the board. I forgot that that was there. Please post. Please post. Post, post, post, post. I wouldn't need to
update the bios, would I? No signal. (groaning) - [Adam] What's happening over there? - Nothing at all. - [Adam] What was that? - That was an excited exclamation
of brilliant happiness. (chuckling) Oh! - [Adam] Never mind, we're good. - Again, very excited. Very excited right now. Very excited. That was the longest post
I've ever had in my life. (laughing) So Adam's having a little problem, in that this is very wobbly. 'Cause there's nothing
really drilling it in, right? I can screw it all I want. - I'm gonna take two off of here. I wonder if we can just put one underneath that'll kind of pinch it together. - Oh, that's a terrific idea. - All right, yeah, this is. Okay, look at this one. This one's much more stable. One off the top. Put it at the bottom. - [Austin] Yeah, that is. - We're making it work. We're making it work. - The main hurdle of this
thing not working is done. Now, it's really going to be about bringing more of the wow factor. The question is, do I need to
add more danger to my system? Do I need to add some confidence? Adam. - Hello, sir. - Is your monitor being held
up by your graphics card, which is dangling from a riser? - Yeah, they typically say you're between a a rock and a hard place. Here, you're between a
graphics card and standoffs. It's just to see if it's possible. - Okay. - How many of these PCs
have you seen in the past? - None. - I haven't seen any. - Zero. - So.
- Zero. - We're gonna see if it's feasible. - Is this what it's gonna look like? Are you, this is it? - I mean, I'm gonna make
sure it works first. - Okay. - And then, we'll see if
we can tidy up the cables. - Smart move, smart move. - Lights are on. Is it spinning? It's spinning. - Something's happening. Graphics card's also spinning. - Oh, cycling. - Okay. - Cycling. - You just have to think about it. - Cycling one more time. I might be able to just try
to plug the graphics card top. - Directly in, yeah. - Yeah, let's give that a shot. We will make this work. - I shouldn't be helping you right now. - Yeah, you shouldn't. Get outta here. - I'm now going to have to pick my best thermal pace pattern with
the thermal pace master. - I will be judging you. - Should I do a grain of rice? I hear that's the best
way of doing it, right? - [Adam] Well if you want to be fancy, you could do a smiley face. - All right, I'm gonna do a smiley face. ♪ Do, do, do, do, do, do, do ♪ - [Adam] Hey. - [Austin] His eye's a little small. - [Adam] He's winking at ya. - [Austin] There we go. I'm happy that I'm gonna
win this competition. - I don't know why you're so confident. - I'm not confident. - Have you seen that over there? - I have seen, you've got Patrick. (laughing) - [Adam] Patrick typically
lives under a rock, but today, he's upgraded
to living under a PC. - The last step here before we
actually fire everything up, including Ken's neato
little custom power button, is to load my sacks, cut my sacks, run cables through my sacks, and then we'll be ready to sack it up. Look, let's just shove it in the sack, and then we'll call it a day. - [Adam] Yeah, if we can
avoid cutting the sack, that sounds like a. - It's a very bad idea
to cut the sack, usually. But today, we might have
to make an exception. I don't need commentary on my sack, okay. I'm trying to get it round. I mean square. - I mean, as long as it looks good. - It's a little lumpy right now, which is usually concerning. - [Adam] Normally, you
don't have an audience for this kind of thing. Looks like it won Tour
de France at least once. (laughing) - This one's gonna be way simpler. Cutting the sack. Adam, I appreciate your
devotion to the cause here. - [Adam] My fingers are
sacrificing for this. - That's fine. I'll do it myself. I'll do it myself. I don't want to be
responsible for mryeester having one less finger than he did before. - [Adam] Good luck. - I think I'm ready to
fire up my ultimate system and see if this all comes to life or not. Three, two, one. Three, two, one. Yeah!
- Let's go. - Wait, wait, wait. Wait for it to post, wait for it to post. Yeah. - Let's go. Good stuff. - We've built a portable
gaming PC that's not a laptop or a Steam Deck or an
INEO or an Alienware. Even a MacBook could probably
be better than this, actually. It is time. Our largest versus smallest gaming PCs have been successfully completed. Adam, would you be please
bees, bees, be kind. (chuckling) Will you please be so kind as to show us the wonderful
system that you have crafted with your own bare hands. (laughing) It's got a fan on the bottom. - Yeah, that's the underglow. With this much space. - Where did Patrick come from? - The great 3D printing
services here at Micro Center. - Oh. - Directly from that. Yeah, his face kind of
internalizes the feeling that you get when you look at this PC. - I feel like this too, most of the time. - If you're gonna have a big PC, you might as well have
a big keyboard as well. - The compensation jokes
really write themselves for this video. Dude, I gotta say, this is
legitimately really impressive. - Shall we take a look to
see what you've come up with? - You might wanna get your
magnifying glass out though, 'cause mine's a little bit small. - All right, let's take a look. - My friend, welcome to the
world's smallest gaming PC. This is an all in one unit. Would you like to do the honors
pressing the big red button? - Oh wow, you have a red button to press? - [Austin] Yes. - That matches your button to vote. - Exactly. (button clicking) - Oh, and it boots right to life. That's awesome. - So, we've got our Ryzen
5 5600G, 16 gigs of RAM. And if I tab over here, 500 gig SSD. - Impressive. - And then if you would like,
you could hide your gaming PC in this and no one would ever suspect it. It's foolproof. - [Ken] TSA. - No, don't take this through security. Go ahead, gently try to close it. - Just try to close it as normal? All right, just like that, it hinges nearly, completely shut. - Yeah, just the power cable's in the way. - [Adam] This is impressive. I love how you laid it
out such that everything, honestly, it looks like
it was made for PCs, but it was made for
PlayStations and Xboxes. Aesthetically, it does look like it's all supposed to be together. - If you live in the Kansas
City area, then by all means, come down to the Overland
Park Micro Center. Not only do they have some terrific deals that you can only get in
store, but you also could come and press these amazing buttons. Let us know in real life. You also could let us
know in the comments. But Adam, thank you
very much for joining me on this excursion. And thank you very much to Micro Center for sponsoring this absolute madness. Ken, no! - Yeah, let's go Ken. (chuckling)