- You've asked for it! And asked for it! And asked for it! We are finally building
the ultimate PS3 today. And that's not entirely
just because the store is shutting down and we won't
be able to do this video after the shutdown and it's sad. So, you might notice, this PS3 that we're starting with looks a little different, right? A little, a different color, a little bit of a
different language on it. This is a Japanese 80 gig PS3. Now, generally speaking the very best PS3 you can buy
is the original 60 gig model, the fat one, which had that
full backwards compatibility. You're talking PS1 games,
PS2 games in hardware. This actually has all those same features except that it does software
backwards compatibility for the PS2 games. Most importantly, I think
it looks a lot cooler. Is that a real DualShock? - [Ken] Wait, that's a DualShock? - Wait, yeah, it's a DualShock 3. Wait, hang on a second. - [Ken] Wait. (chuckles) Hold up. Hold on. Wait. So if I remember correctly 'cause not all the 80 gigs
have backwards compat. So, I think if it came with a DualShock 3, I didn't double check it, but I also thought I read the right one but if it comes with the-- - Are you saying that we're 17 seconds
into building ultimate PS3 and this is not the ultimate PS3 already? (gentle music) - [Ken] I do want to however, make it up to you. - Okay. - I have my collection
of PS3 and PS2 games. - Okay. - PS2 games won't work
but the PS3 ones will. - Well, yeah. I hope the PS3 games work in the PS3, Ken, that would be really helpful. Why is your Amex in here? Did you forget your credit card? (laughing) - That was where the lost card was. - You lost your credit card (laughing) Wait, why did you put
your credit card in here? - I have no idea. (both laughing) - Can you imagine a worst start to this video? That is minty. Oh my goodness. Wow. Look at that. - [Ken] Japanese market
PS3, they take care of their consoles, especially
the ones that you buy online. - You know what? Even though this might be the, not be the PS3 that we were looking for and you lost your credit card, it's a nice looking system. I gotta say, it is a nice looking system. So with our 80 gig, white
PS3, the next step is simple. Let's upgrade it, shall we? To make our PS3 just a
little bit more ultimate, we have more terrible cooling fan. Why do we keep doing this to ourselves? Every building the ultimate
has to have some useless fan. This is gonna look like there's like something
stuck in the PS3's teeth. Oh, gross. Look at that. Look at that. (groaning) (laughing) This my friends, has a little thing called an SSD. Now while yes, inside the PS3 we might have a near 80 gig hard drive, the thing is you can actually easily upgrade the PS3 hard drive. I've actually never done this before, but that's actually one of the things that I
will give Sony props for, they've always made it easy to upgrade pretty much every PlayStation
that has had a hard drive, you could swap it out. So, there is a limit, right? You can't just put
anything inside the PS3. But I believe it only supports, it's either 500 gigs or
it might do one terabyte, I guess we'll find out. But for now we have a 480 gig SSD which I think should be
a massive improvement over the 80 gigs inside. Say what, we're thinking ahead here. That is dead simple. That took like two seconds, it's one screw. So many people have asked us
to build the ultimate PS3. I mean, we've done the ultimate
PS4, the ultimate Switch. We even did the ultimate 360 a while ago. (upbeat music) Oh look at that. With our SSD on the caddy, we should, we just be able
to drop it right into place, and clicks. And then we use our final screw. And there we go. We've got 480 gigs of flash
storage inside our PS3. Let's see if this thing
actually boots up now though, 'cause that actually
might be a slight problem. We may need to re-install the drive. This is a eight terabyte,
WD_Black external hard drive. Now this is more meant for
like a PS4 and Xbox One. I actually don't know what this will do for the PS3 'cause you can't install games
on the external hard drive but you can like copy a game over to it. You just can't run it from the
external hard drive, right? - [Ken] I think there's some game data that you can transfer. But the cool thing about the PS3 was that it was a really
good media machine. So you could play lots
of videos and music. - Oh, yeah. I wonder though. There's no way the PS3 is gonna accept a full eight terabytes, right? Oh man. That's a big chungus. That's a humongous chungus, as the kids say. (object clattering) (gentle upbeat music) All right, I take it back. This is the humongous chungus. Well, I guess there's nothing else for it. What's inside this box? Monitor stand? Oh, is this the PlayStation TV, or the, what is it, The 3D TV? Ken, you actually had
one of these, right? - [Ken] I did. I used it as a computer
monitor in college. - This seems like an
excessive amount of packing but hopefully it arrived. Wow. Look at this. Look how well packed this is. This is great. I mean, I can kick this
around the room right now. (paper tearing) - [Ken] You're not done yet? - I'm not done yet. It's still going. And there's cardboard. I will say one thing. This is a device which
is incredibly difficult to find in 2021 because the PlayStation 3D TV
was notorious for failures, probably because they really
pushed this technology beyond what it was comfortable with. You really couldn't
find 240 hertz displays back in, you know, 2010, 2011. And therefore the vast majority
of these PS TVs are dead now at this point. Supposedly, this one is working. I will believe it when I see it. All right, fire it up. Does it work? Looks fine to me. Look at that. (gentle music) A'ight, well, I think it's time. Let's plug in our ultimate PS3, and see what happens. Hopefully some combination
of all this actually works. (gentle music) I like that noise a lot. Hey, it even defaults to English? What the hell? The system software
cannot be run correctly. Obviously there's nothing on this SSD that's ever been formatted
or anything like that. Okay. We'll be right back after we install an actual operating system on our PS3. And so my friends, the
ultimate PS3 is alive. I like all, we jump
into the store and like, "Hey, why don't you go
buy yourself a PS4?" We've been a little bit behind. Obviously we're using a DualShock, and you know, that makes sense. But because this was a Japanese model the X in the O have been flipped. So I hit O to enter instead of X which is a bit of a mind I'm not gonna lie. Give me Black Ops III for PS3? They still made all the
way in Black Ops III? Damn man. - [Ken] I love how CoD
4 is still 20 bucks. - CS:Go? There was CS:Go for PS3? What the, what? I wanna play that. It doesn't even work
online anymore, does it? Whatever, I'm absolutely doing that. 15 bucks. Sold. We're saving these games
from the sands of time. Okay? - It was a good time to
give us a brand new update. - And it's a great time to finally-- - What are you doing?
- give PSReady a shout out. So Jimmy has been running for
the last couple of months, an excellent PlayStation-based
content channel called-- (both laughing) Jimmy is going to be giving away a PS5 to a random person who
subscribes to the channel. So what are you waiting for? Go check out PSReady! If you excuse me I'm gonna
continue to build a PS3, but I'll leave, I should leave this with you and good job. - Thanks. - Keep making good videos. I enjoy watching-- - This is empty. (dramatic music) - Okay. Now that we've got
a few games downloaded, looks, let's just see what
all we can do on the PS3. Well, listen to Spotify. There's Spotify in the PS3? Come on, we gotta play CS:Go, right? Quick match. Offline with bots. Let's do offline with bots first, just, (upbeat music) - [Voiceover] Wow! - PlayStation Move! Oh, you're not gonna make me play CS:Go with PlayStation Move, are you? (laughing) So if you're not familiar, PlayStation Move was very
much the Sony equivalent to something like the Wii remote, right? It was a way to get some
motion controls into the PS3 which certainly was not
designed to incorporate it. So to make PS Move work, we also have the PS Eye, spelled E Y E, in case you're curious, and this is essentially a webcam that would help to track the lighted dot on the end of the Move controller. Oh, look at that. Okay. So our PS Eye is now working in a flawless capacity. That actually this camera
looks pretty good, right? Okay. Oh yeah. Yo, how did I move? Whoa. Okay. Calm down. Calm down. Oh my God. Okay. I'm gonna double fist it. I'm double fisting. Oh, that's so sensitive. (groaning) Okay. Wait. (groaning and laughing) (gentle upbeat music) Ken, I don't think I'm the
most competitive I've ever been with a PlayStation Move controller. If only I had a better controller that would actually be useful. (object clunks) Was that a DualSense? What do we a DualSense for? Does a DualSense work with the PS3? (gasping) (cheering) It just works. Are you kidding me? You just plug the DualSense
in and it, that just works. What? (object clunks) What is this? Oh, these are the glasses
for the TV, aren't they? This is not any ordinary TV. You need the very stylish
PlayStation glasses. Don't I look like I'm from 2021? 3D activate. Whoa. Hello? All right. Let's try a game first. Oh, wow. That's some 3D right there. Also. Can I just say that the DualSense is
working in this as well? Yo, that 3D is legit. Definitely a little bit of
ghosting I see on the display. Although part of that is just a reflection of the room around me,
but there's certainly a major difference from in the glasses what I'm seeing, with like my hand and the gun
and everything else, right? There's definitely a
couple of layers here. This feels pretty ultimate to me. There's clearly nothing that's gonna improve this setup, right? Like this is peak PS3. What are you reaching? What are you reaching for back there? Huh? What's that? What is that? Electronic material don't drop or crush. (gentle music) Austin, we'll be keeping an eye out for if it's to be featured on YouTube. Thanks, Nick. Who is Nick? What is that? I mean it's well-packed
but like, is this a stand? Okay. So we've got a power adapter, is that a little display or something? Do you know what this is? I actually don't know what this is. - That is what I believe is
Sony's first consumer OLED. - This is an OLED? Wasn't it like $5,000? It's just something absolutely ridiculous for an OLED that's this small? Am I trippin? How much did we pay Nick for the LG OLED electronic 5000? - [Ken] 900 bucks. - $900 for this little display? The OLED itself is very thin, right? So the actual, the panel
is really small here but all the guts are in the base, right? Including a speaker and I'm sure all kinds of other nonsense. So we've got a headphone jack. We've got a cable, oh, we've got a standard coax, we've got a coax. We've got a Memory Stick,
power in and two HDMIs. So we're gonna swap out the
PSTV for this tiny OLED? All right. All right. All right. Who bought this at $5,000? Why would you buy something so small? I'm excited. Goodbye PlayStation, 3D TV, which actually looks good
and has cool 3D features. Let's experience the OLED future, that is still expensive in 2021. All right. Nick gave us the remote for it which is also a very thin cool remote. OLED digital TV. I mean, I gotta say this
remote looks exactly like what I thought the
future should be in 2007. I will definitely say that. Power. All right. We're looking at static, but
that static looks really good. I mean, look at that, right? Look how thin that is. I mean, it's not surprising, right? I mean, even in 2021 that's still really impressive, because realistically, OLED is still as good as it gets. I mean sure, OLED's gotten bigger and higher resolution and all this kind of stuff. The contrast of this display,
even though it's only 540p or whatever, still it's
incredibly impressive today. Woo. (laughing) Yo. Yo. Okay. So what you're seeing on camera right now,
the screen flickering. I do not see that with my own eyes. So that's just purely the
way that the cameras were like sort of clashing
with the refresh rate. In person, this looks every bit as good as like a modern laptop
with an OLED display, right? I gotta jump into this. I gotta jump into this. Dude, you think this is bright? It's at 50% brightness. Wait, let's crank it. Let's crank it. Woo. (laughing) That is so ridiculously bright. I bet you can't even see
that in the camera right now. I like the fact that
someone's spent $1,500 on this like back in 2007 and yet it's still worth like a thousand dollars today, right? It really goes to show
how ahead of its time it really was. I mean, this is absolutely
more of a novelty, right? But what is building the ultimate PS3 if it not a bunch of novelty
with old PlayStations and hard drives and controllers and like, man, this is me in my happy place. If you can't tell, this
is me in my happy place.