The semiconductor industry is highly volatile. 
The booms follow the busts with frightening speed.   These are not normal times. But even in 
normal times, conditions are unpredictable.   Semiconductor shipments can soar 
70% one year and crash 40% the next. In this video, I want to think about the 
semiconductor business cycle. Right now, we are   working through a big chip shortage. I wonder how 
soon before that turns into a glut. With everyone   racing to build or expand their fabs, maybe sooner 
than we might think. But I do want to note, don’t   expect me make any this year or that predictions 
in this video. Just a bunch of scattered thoughts. Let us start by looking at the 
dynamics of demand and supply. When things are planned out well, then capacity 
can be forecasted, shortages avoided, and   everything will be fine. The chairman of Foxconn 
said this recently about the recent shortages: > Since most of the customers we serve 
are large customers, they all have proper   precautionary planning ... Therefore, the impact 
on these large customers is there, but limited Of course, the hard part is the actual 
forecasting. End users do not directly   buy microchips in large quantities. Instead, 
the chips are purchased by vendors who put   them into consumer goods like PCs and 
smartphones that the users then buy. These chips don’t last long on the proverbial 
shelves. There is always a new product coming   out this or next season that threatens to make 
your current iteration obsolete. Missing an   annual launch cycle like what happened with AMD 
in the mid 2000s can have dire consequences for   the whole company. For more information about 
that, you can watch my video about AMD and TSMC. So foundry customers are always wanting 
to get them made and shipped yesterday.   Their concern about securing stock in uncertain 
times can lead them to double book orders,   which means exactly what it sounds like. TSMC Chairman Mark Liu cites double booking as 
one of the major reasons why the shortage is   not as bad as it looks. He blames this double 
booking on a number of very legitimate reasons:   the pandemic and the recent China-America 
trade tensions. The latter of which is the   bigger concern. No end in sight for that one so 
we should expect some double booking to continue. Demand is also heavily impacted by the greater 
macro-economy. It makes sense. Electronics are   consumer items and consumers buy fewer iPhones 
and laptops when times are tough. For instance,   three downturns in the semiconductor business 
cycles can be attributed to oil shocks in 1975,   1982, and 1991. Another from the 
Asian Financial Crisis of 1998. Everyone might be howling about 
semiconductor shortages right now,   but we forget that in March of 2020 
the stock market was down 25% and   experts were saying that the 
world economy was falling to bits. Back then, companies were doing all they 
can to cut their expenses and hunker down.   But a flurry of stimulus packages and money 
printing meant that the economy bounced back   faster than anyone ever anticipated in Q3 2020. 
I don't think anyone predicted that would happen. So that is macro. Everyone talks about 
macro but here is something interesting.   A study in 2005 found that what is more 
significant in the triggering of semiconductor   down cycles is not a decrease in demand. Rather, 
it has more to do with surges in semiconductor   inventory levels and fab capacity. In other 
words, over-supply rather than under-demand. This makes sense to me. It is not like 
foundries and semiconductor companies   have never heard of the business cycle. 
But rather, the nature and economics   of the industry force them to make like 
rabbits until the whole thing collapses. First, let us start with the fab. A 
fab costs a lot of money to build.   We all know about Moore's Law. Not an 
actual natural law but rather an industry   observation that the number of transistors on 
an integrated circuit doubles every two years.   It is famous and everyone likes to talk about it. But not as well known is Moore's Second Law. 
Also known as Rock's Law, named after one of   Intel's early investors. It states that the cost 
of semiconductor tools doubles every four years.   Such tools represent 75% of the total 
cost of the fab, driving them upwards. In 2000, a leading edge fab cost a billion 
dollars, twice as much as it was in 1995.   In 2005, $3 billion. Now in 2020, TSMC's leading 
edge N5 fab in Tainan cost roughly $17 billion.   Its next generation N3 process fab (also in 
Tainan) is estimated to cost $19.5 billion. Like with Moore's Law itself, Rock's Law 
is an observation and not a natural law.   As much research goes into slowing Rock's 
Law as it does into accelerating Moore's.   And there are a few techniques and 
financial methods that companies   have explored in reducing those costs. 
And they have their own trade offs. Regardless, foundries still 
have to put up billions of   dollars before they can even start to compete. Most foundries would like their new billion 
dollar fabs to make back their billion dollar   investments. But with the way the chip market is, 
those fabs start losing value almost right away.   It is like what they say about 
driving a new car off of the lot. Much of these fab construction costs 
are fixed. But the marginal cost of   making another chip is basically 
nil. So you want to make and sell   as many chips as possible to 
amortize those fixed costs. What happens is that supply hits the market, 
exceeds demand, and prices collapse. Everyone   starts making less profit. Market supply 
should pull back. But the foundries are   incentivized to sell every chip that they 
can possibly make. If they can generate even   a bit of gross profit that can contribute 
to their future survival costs, they sell. Furthermore, the industry's titans - TSMC and 
Samsung - value market share over profitability.   They refuse to mothball capacity lest that 
business go to any potential competitors.   And because they have massive economies 
of scale, they can cause the market price   to plunge to essentially their survival price - 
far lower than everyone else's in the industry. The result is a fierce downcycle 
that burns out the lower performers.   Companies go bankrupt and get bought 
out. Supply re-balances with demand   and the cycle resets itself once more. 
Waiting for the next chip shortage. As they say in the Romance of the Three 
Kingdoms: "The empire, long divided,   must unite; long united, must divide." I want to talk a bit about subsidies. There 
has been a lot of chatter in the news about   governments putting down cash to build fabs. 
China is doing it, with their $20 billion   semiconductor plan. President Joe Biden 
included $50 billion in his stimulus plan.   And the EU is putting together 145 billion 
euro for a 2-nm cutting-edge fab of their own.   I can't address all that I want to say here, 
but I want to get to some essential points. In the US, there are two significant 
pieces of US legislation in the works:   The CHIPS act and the American Foundries 
Act. They would establish a R&D fund and   a 20-40% tax credit for the acquisition 
of semiconductor production equipment. I think the tax credit's effects 
would be more short-term,   impacting three to five years or one 
fab generation. On the other hand,   I like the R&D fund, which I think will have 
longer term lasting effects. Especially when   it comes to spinning off public-private 
partnerships like the one that created EUV. So I have mixed feelings about the whole venture. 
I understand the value of national sovereignty,   government involvement and investment in certain 
high-priority things. I recognize that I have   written a lot about TSMC and Taiwan, and thus 
might harbor biases. By now, you probably have   already decided for yourself whether or 
not I am some sort of shill or otherwise. But I am also a big believer in commercial 
things having to pay for themselves.   Like with every other government action, subsidies 
create distortions. That is the whole point   of having them. The subsidy’s intention is to 
bring more manufacturing to the USA. It looks   like they will get their wish. 40% subsidies can 
do that. But unless the subsidies go on forever   (and they might! The government's 
spent money on dumber stuff before),   the subsidized fabs should have to stand 
up on their own two feet afterwards. We will need to go back to Congress 
to get those credits renewed, right?   I bet then it gets a lot more scrutiny, especially 
once the politically powerful automakers get   their chips back, the F-150s are back on the 
lots again, and we are on to the next crisis. I am doing this video because. Today, we are 
in the midst of a large build-out of fabs   across the world. Fabs are so hot right now. TSMC is working on its Arizona fab. That has 
been going for a year now. And there have been   whispers that this small 20,000 wafer fab is 
being upscaled in size from the original plan. Samsung is in negotiations on a major 
investment buildout of their Austin fab.   They are going to spend tens of 
billions of dollars on that as well. Even the smaller, second-tier foundries are 
building out or upgrading their fab capacity.   There has been a flurry of press 
releases from all these companies,   none of whom with a process node under 
10nm, about new sites and projects. Global Foundries is spending $1.4 billion 
in expansion and moving up their IPO.   Maybe they need the capital. Maybe 
their Middle East investors think   they should strike while the iron 
is hot and cash out their shares. And SMIC is getting money from the Shenzhen 
government to build a $2.35 billion project.   That wafer fab is expected to do 40,000 
wafers a month once it is done in 2022. Just a small sample of the recent news 
going on in the semiconductor world.   And my immediate thoughts is that 
it is a whole lot of capacity. For instance, once TSMC completes its Arizona 
fab, the new facility will have about 25,000   to 100,000 wafer starts a month, depending on the 
final size they decide. Along with everyone else,   that is hundreds of thousands of wafers 
coming to the market over the next 1-2 years. It would be irrational to say that that 
won't have any effect on the market once   that capacity is all at peak output. Did we 
really create tens of millions of chips worth   of demand over the past year? Now, people are 
starting to go back to school and the office.   Are PC Masterrace types or crypto miners buying 
that many new graphics cards? I doubt it. The American government is not going to buy 
all of those chips. The Department of Defense   buys 1.9 billion semiconductors a year. If the 
TSMC Arizona fab does 50,000 wafers a month,   that alone is a theoretical 3.5 
billion dies a month. One month. So I am watching this build-out with some 
interest and curiosity. The chip shortage has   been in the Wall Street Journal and the Verge 
for a really long time. Semis are super hot   right now. I wonder how long this boom will 
last, and when the bust will inevitably happen.