- This is real footage captured outside a Micro Center computer
store in Dallas, Texas. And you might think that Twitch streamer Preston A Lewis was filming
a black Friday shopping rush or something, but no. No one in this crowd of people was hoping for a discount at all. The shortage of GPUs has gotten so dire that this is how desperate people are just to buy a graphics card
at an MSRP that has already been twice inflated since the release of NVIDIA's 30 series, once
by component shortages, then again, by tariffs on
U.S. imports from China which makes NVIDIA's
pricing for the new 3070 Ti really confusing because
599 for this much raw power that would have been a decent
deal even before the shortage. And what makes it especially unexpected is that last week's 3080 Ti
was also competitively priced but only in the context
of the current landscape where this untested 2080 Ti on eBay sold for $1000. Is NVIDIA trying to start street brawls? Or, did they travel to
an alternate timeline and bring this thing back
for the good of all gamers? And if they did just, how good is it? And who's our sponsor? Antlion Audio, their
ModMic Wireless microphone delivers best in class audio quality, 12 plus hours of battery life and it magnetically mounts to
almost any pair of headphones. Get 15% off the ModMic Wireless
and other ModMic product at the link in the video description. (upbeat music) 599 puts the 3070 Ti smack dab
in the middle of the RTX 3070 and RTX 3080, both in terms of price and product positioning, which, in itself makes sense because unlike the RTX 3080 Ti which was pretty much a
watered down RTX 3090, the RTX 3070 Ti is more
of a beefed up RTX 3070. It shares the same GA 104
GPU with about 4% more cores, with the same eight gigs of GDDR6 memory on the same 256 bit
bus, pretty unexciting. Oh, I'm sorry, did I say
the same GDDR6 memory? What I should have probably mentioned is that it is much faster. Clocking in at a good
2.5 gigahertz higher, we're looking at an
effective bandwidth boost of 160 gigabytes per second,
which is nearly a 24% increase. Consequently, the rated graphics power is a hefty 70 Watts higher and the cooler is a new ambiguent design
that looks something like a cross between the
RTX 3080 and RTX 3070 with the same totally necessary and very industry
standard 12-pin connector, though at least to NVIDIA's
credit, they were kind enough to angle it instead and
having it stick straight out like the old 3070. So the hope then, both for
NVIDIA and for the rest of us is that if the cooler is
in between the two cards, the RTX 3070 Ti's
performance will be as well despite it having just 4% more cores than its namesake and a
whopping 29% fewer cores than the RTX 3080. Now, since the testing
is happening so soon after our RTX 3080 Ti review, we're gonna be using the same
bench in the same patch state and we'll even be wearing the same shirt and the same underwear from lttstore.com, freshly washed of course though. Starting with Metro
Exodus Enhanced Edition, the story is already
looking pretty interesting for the 3070 Ti. It managed an average frame
rate 12% higher than the 3070, which is good, but then that
also puts it a good 19% lower than the RTX 3080, which is, hmm. F1 2020 tightens the
spread somewhat though with a 10% lead over
the 3070 and at 12% loss against the 3080 and Forza
Horizon 4 actually continues along this trajectory, giving
us the best result yet. So it appears that high frame rates favor the 3070 Ti's additional memory bandwidth while lower frame rates
really want for more cores. And this appears to bear out
in Assassin's Creed: Valhalla where frame rates dip
way back down to earth and actually AMD's RX
6700 XT manages to eclipse not only the 3070 and 3070
Ti, but even the 3080. CS Goal is another
chance for the 3070 Ti's lightening fast memory to make up ground, but while it manages to get close to the middle of the 3070 and 3080, it ends up closer to the former. Not gonna lie though,
given that we're looking at a handful of extra cores
and a hefty memory over clock, I'm pretty impressed but how
much are those gonna help if you wanna do anything
other than gaming? As it turns out, not much. The RTX 3070 Ti doesn't manage much in the way of an improvement
over the RTX 3070, and loses badly to the RTX 3080 in rendering with both Blender and V-Ray while Creative Cloud doesn't
really show enough variation between the cards to
warrant picking up one over the other. OctaneBench is a little
better than Blender but we're still looking
at a much closer result to the 3070 than to the 3080 and this trend continues pretty hardcore into SPECviewperf where
the RTX 3080 stomps all over or both of it's GA
104 equipped competitors. The only thing that could
be considered a win here is the energy benchmark
where the 3070 Ti's additional memory bandwidth
pushes it far enough away from the 3070 to find
that middle ground again. So, what have we learned then? It turns out that fast memory on a GPU can be good, very good, but
then it's also very situational. And we also learned that
fast memory with more cores is better than just fast memory
in every conceivable way. Okay, we didn't really learn
either of those things, but, it's always nice to
get refresher isn't it? And on that subject, let's talk cooling. The bigger heat sink on the
RTX 3070 Ti founder's edition meant that it didn't
get all that much hotter than the RTX 3070 and with a peak of just a little higher than 78 degrees
at an average of 64 degrees across our SPECviewperf test, we're looking at a respectable result all things considered. Power consumption however, is less so. The 3070 Ti ends up sitting
much closer to the 3080 than its performance would suggest at 311 Watts peak and 151 Watts average, that's about 20% more power
draw than it's non-Ti cousin, and most of this appears to
come from the up clocked memory considering how few
additional GPU cores there are and the fact that when
we look at core clocks, the 3070 Ti consistently runs
about a 100 megahertz lower than both the 3070 and the 3080. At the end of the day
though, our recommendation like with the RTX 3080 Ti is going to be to immediately buy this
card at MSRP, if you can. And I know that not everyone agreed with our conclusion last
time, but the truth is I stand behind what I said a 100% because no matter who you are, are you a filthy scalper
looking to make a quick buck? Or are you a gamer who happens
to have that much money to spend on a graphics card? Whichever one you are,
both of the new Ti variants at MSRP of course, are going
to be a much better deal than anything that you're
getting on the secondary market. And sure, you can compare these
cards to suggested pricing from a year ago, but the
reality of the situation is that outside of the handful
of cards that NVIDIA sells through their web store,
those cards at those prices, they don't actually exist. And that might make you mad,
but shooting the messenger isn't gonna get you anywhere, and besides, I did warn after all. So, yeah, it's a great GPU
with great NVIDIA features like DLSS, high-quality
hardware video encoding, and more and 599, it's an absolute bargain for this class of GPU in
the current conditions. Will the 3070 Ti still make
sense when the dust settles? Honestly, my money's on, not really, but, I suppose only time can tell for sure and by the look of things,
it's going to be a long time. But it won't be a long time until I tell you about our sponsor, Drop's ALT mechanical keyboard is based on their top
selling control keyboard and features fully keys,
so you can assign macros or key buy-ins to whatever you want. They removed the function
role to reduce it to 67 keys instead of 87, and, it's created
with a solid aluminum frame and a hot swap switch
plate, making it super easy to change out your switches. It's both portable and
rock solid and features a customizable RGB
backlight, and under gliding, as well as two USB-C connectors
with one on each side of the keyboard, whatever works best for your cable management. So pick up your own Drop ALT keyboard at the link down below,
and you'll get a free set of skylight key caps
today using promo code free caps at the checkout. So thanks for watching guys, go check out our recent
video, where we got verified actual gamers to compete
against yours truly for a chance to get a
GPU at that elusive MSRP. Actually some of them even
ended up with discounts, they beat me.