On March 26, 2024 (just a few weeks ago, if you're 
watching this as it comes out), a large container   ship struck one of the main support piers of 
the Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore,   Maryland, collapsing the bridge, killing 
six construction workers, injuring one more,   and seriously disrupting both road and marine 
traffic in the area. There’s a good chance you   saw this in the news, and hopefully you’ve seen 
some of the excellent content already released by   independent creators providing additional context. 
I got a lot of requests to talk about the event,   and I usually prefer to wait to discuss events 
like this until there are more details available   from investigations, but I think it might 
be helpful to provide some context from an   engineering perspective about how we consider 
vessel collisions in the design of bridges   like this one, and why the Francis Scott 
Key bridge may have collapsed. I’m Grady,   and this is Practical Engineering. Today we’re 
talking about vessel collision design for bridges. The Francis Scott Key Bridge was a steel 
arch-shaped continuous through truss bridge.   I’m working on a video that goes into a lot more 
detail about the different kinds of bridges and   how they’re classified, but this bridge had kind 
of a medley of structural styles, so let me hand   it off to our special guest correspondent, 
Road Guy Rob, to break that terminology down. Well, Grady, I'm in Long Beach, California 
today, standing on top of this brand new   bridge that replaced an old arch/truss 
bridge that used to be right there. It   kind of looked like a baby Key Bridge, and the 
Port of Long Beach is happy that it's gone. The Gerald Desmond Bridge was a truss 
bridge. Instead of having one big large beam,   a truss has lots of smaller connected 
structural members all attached together. This creates a rigid structure that's 
much lighter weight than a big heavy beam,   and that makes trusses efficient and clever when 
they work. Both the Key bridge and the old bridge   that used to be here were “through-truss” 
bridges. It's a sort of arch shape,   and the driving deck is suspended below the 
truss, so you sort of drive through the arch,   but it's not an actual arch with like a keystone 
and all the pieces pushing horizontally to hold   each other together. No, this through-truss bridge 
has no hinges or joints at the main supports,   nothing that breaks it up into sections. So 
that's why engineers called the Key bridge a   continuous truss bridge. It's all one big piece, 
and it's all bolted and welded into a single rigid   truss across its entire length. And then that load 
distributes across all three spans of the bridge. Now, the approach roads on each side are 
entirely separate bridges, even though they   link together. They just look like concrete 
roads sitting on top of simple girder spans. Well, you ask, what happened to that baby Key 
bridge in Long Beach? Well, the only way you're   going to see it now is to turn on Grand Theft 
Auto five and look at the fictionalized version   of it immortalized in Los Santos for all time. 
Because when this bridge opened, the port of Long   Beach demolished the old bridge and the last 
scraps of it got all the way back in October. In its place, this new, fancier 
looking cable-stayed bridge,   the Long Beach International Gateway. And what 
the Port of Long Beach did in studying to build   this bridge and the list of improvements they 
came up with might give us some clues what   Baltimore might want to end up doing when 
they replace the Key bridge down the line. And we'll talk about that in just a moment. When the Dali container ship lost power 
and drifted into the southwest pier,   the support collapsed, and most of the truss 
and deck fell with it. Both the southwest and   central spans fell roughly vertically with the 
loss of support from the damaged pier. Part of   the truss on the northwest side separated 
from the unsupported section and rotated   toward the northeast span, taking several 
of the approach spans with it. Thankfully,   the ship had put out a mayday call before 
the impact, allowing police officers at   either end of the bridge to close it to traffic. 
Tragically, it wasn’t enough time to get the crew   of eight construction workers off the structure 
before it fell, six of whom lost their lives. Just dealing with the salvage and removal of 
the steel and concrete debris left over from the   collapse has been a massive undertaking. Within 
a week, engineering teams were on-site measuring,   cutting, lifting, and floating away huge chunks 
of the wreckage in separate salvage operations for   the main bridge, approaches, and the vessel. As of 
this writing, they’re still working hard on it. At   least seven floating cranes were involved, 
including the famous Weeks 533 that pulled   US Airways Flight 1549 from the Hudson River in 
2009. This was essentially a massive Jenga tower:   the order of operations and the precision of 
each cut and each lift mattered. With so much   debris underwater, they had to map it out to 
understand how everything was stacked together.   Access was a major challenge, and the stresses 
in the wreckage were hard to characterize,   so it’s been a slow and deliberate process 
requiring careful planning and tons of skill   to do safely. Fortunately for Baltimore, there 
are large industrial facilities in the port that   can process the thousands of tons of material 
that will ultimately be removed. Of course,   reopening the port to shipping traffic is a huge 
priority. A small channel was marked out under   one of the approach bridges for smaller vessels 
like tug and barges traffic, and the Army Corps   of Engineers is making good progress on opening 
up the main channel, but it isn’t clear when   full-scale operations at the port will be able to 
resume. Shipping traffic isn’t the only traffic   affected either, the bridge carried thousands 
of road vehicles per day that now have to be   re-routed. There is a tunnel under the harbor that 
provides a decent alternate route, but trucks with   hazardous materials aren’t allowed through, 
requiring an enormous detour around the city. It’s been more than a month since the event, 
but it will likely be a year or more before   we get an official report documenting the 
probable cause of the failure. In the US,   events like this are investigated by 
the National Transportation Safety   Board or NTSB. This independent government 
agency is extremely diligent. And often,   diligent also means slow. But events like this 
are how the field of engineering evolves. Human   imagination isn’t limited to past experiences, 
but in many senses, engineering is. We just don’t   have the resources to answer the millions of 
“what ifs” that might coalesce into a tragedy,   so we lean on the hard lessons learned from 
past failures.  When something terrible happens, it’s really important that we collectively get 
to the bottom of why and then make whatever   changes are appropriate to our engineering 
systems to prevent it from happening again. But, at the risk of stating the 
obvious, the failure mode in this   case is pretty clear. You probably don’t need an 
engineer to explain why a massive ship slamming   into a bridge pier would cause that bridge to 
collapse. I think what’s less obvious is how   engineers characterize situations like this so 
that bridges can be designed to withstand them.   Collisions with bridges by barges and ships 
are not a modern problem. Technically they’re   called “allisions” since a bridge isn’t 
moving, but that term is used more in the   maritime industry than by bridge engineers. 
Between 1960 and 2014, there were 35 major   bridge collapses resulting from vessel impacts. 
And, 18 of those were in the US. We just have   such a big network of inland waterways, 
and that means we have a lot of bridges. Two spans of the Queen Isabella Causeway Bridge 
in Texas collapsed in 2001 when barges collided   with one of the piers. A year later, a bridge 
carrying I-40 over the Arkansas River in Oklahoma   was hit by barges when the captain lost control, 
collapsing a major portion of the structure. In   2009, Popp’s Ferry Bridge in Mississippi collapsed 
after being struck by a group of barges. In 2012,   the Eggner’s Ferry Bridge in Kentucky fell 
when a cargo ship tried to go through the   wrong channel. Before any of those, though, 
the Sunshine Skyway Bridge in Florida put a   major focus on the problem. In 1980, a bulk 
carrier ship lost control because of a storm,   crashing into one of the piers and collapsing the 
entire main span of the southbound bridge, killing   35. The event brought a lot of new awareness and 
concern about the safety of bridges over navigable   waterways. But piers aren’t the only parts of a 
bridge at risk from ships. I’ll let Rob explain. The Key bridge got into trouble because 
of a horizontal allision. That's where a   ship moves side to side in the wrong way 
and hits something it's not supposed to. Here in Long Beach, that really wasn't 
their concern, primarily because the old   bridge columns were way inland here, so there 
was no way for a ship to exit the waterway   and hit the column because the column was in 
lots of dirt. And the new replacement bridge   takes no chances at all. Look how much 
farther onshore those columns are now! Now, the Port of Long Beach were far 
more worried of the old Gerald Desmond Bridge   getting hit vertically. The old bridge was 155ft 
tall. That's like a 15 story building. And if that   sounds pretty tall to you, it sounded pretty tall 
to them back in 1968 when they built the bridge.   But as we now know, ships are getting bigger and 
fatter and taller and 155ft wasn't cutting it for   some of the modern ships that were trying to get 
into the back part of the port, where there's a   lot of cranes and action happening over there. 
So the new bridge adds another 50ft, takes it   over 200ft. That's like a 20 story building to 
get up from the waterline to that new bridge. And this new, taller, Long Beach International 
Gateway helps the port scratch off one designation   they didn't want - having the shortest bridge 
over a port in the United States. Well,   that's gone now, and thankfully in a less tragic 
manner than what's happening on the East Coast. In the aftermath of the Sunshine Skyway collapse, 
the federal government and the professional   community, both from the engineering and maritime 
sides, invested a serious amount of time and   investigation into the issue. One culmination was 
updated bridge codes that included requirements   for consideration of vessel collisions. For 
highway bridges in the US, those specifications   are put out by an organization called the American 
Association of State Highway and Transportation   Officials (or AASHTO), but there are similar 
requirements worldwide, including in the Eurocode. A lot of infrastructure is designed for 
worst-case scenarios, but at a certain point,   it just isn’t feasible. This is something 
I’ve talked a lot about in previous videos:   you have to draw a line somewhere that 
balances the benefits and the costs. If   the code required us to design bridges with 
Armageddon meteorite or Godzilla protection,   we just wouldn’t build any bridges. It would be 
too expensive. And that’s kind of true for ship   collisions too. The mass and kinetic energy 
of the cargo vessels today is tough to even   wrap your head around. We just couldn’t afford 
to build bridges if they all had to be capable   of withstanding a worst-case collision. Instead, 
for what engineers call “high consequence, low   probability” events, codes often set the standard 
as some acceptable amount of risk. There’s always   going to be some possibility of an event like 
this, but how much risk are we as a society   willing to bear for the benefit of having easy 
access across navigable waterways? In the U.S.,   that answer, at least according to AASHTO for 
critical structures like the Key Bridge, is   0.01 percent probability in a given year. For some 
perspective, it’s roughly the chance of rolling a   Yahtzee (five-of-a-kind) in a single throw. But 
it’s an annual probability, so you have to roll   the dice once every year. If you did it forever, 
it would average out to once every 10,000 years,   but that doesn’t mean it couldn’t happen twice 
in a row. So an engineer’s job is to design   the structure not to survive in a worst-case 
scenario but to have a very low probability of   collapsing from a vessel impact. And there’s 
a lot that goes into figuring that out. This is the general formula for the annual 
probability of bridge collapse due to a ship   collision. You have all these factors that get 
multiplied together. The first one is just the   number of ships that pass under the bridge in a 
year. And there’s a growth factor in there for how   that number might change over time. Then there’s 
what’s called the probability of vessel aberrancy;   basically, the chance that one of those ships 
loses control. AASHTO has some baseline numbers   for this based on long-term accident statistics in 
the US, and the designer can apply some correction   factors based on site-specific issues like water 
currents and navigation aids. Then, there’s the   geometric probability of a collision if a ship 
does lose control. When a vessel is aberrant,   you don’t know which way it’s going to 
head. This gets a little complicated,   but if you’re familiar with normal distributions 
it will make perfect sense. You can plot a normal   distribution curve centered on the transit path 
with one standard deviation equal to the length   of the aberrant ship to give you an approximation 
of where it might end up. The area under that   curve that intersects with the bridge piers is the 
probability that the ship will impact the bridge   if it loses control. And this is really the first 
knob an engineer can turn to reduce the risk,   because the farther the piers are from 
the transit path, the lower the geometric   probability of a collision. And this factor can 
be modified if ships have tethered tugs to assist   with staying in the channel, something that 
wasn’t required in Baltimore at the Key Bridge. But, even if there is a collision, that doesn’t 
necessarily mean the bridge will collapse. This   is where the structural engineering comes into 
play. The probability of collapse depends both   on the lateral strength of the pier and 
the impact force from the collision. But,   that force isn’t as simple as putting a 
weight on a scale. It’s time-dependent,   and it varies according to the size and type 
of vessel, its speed, the amount of ballast,   the angle of the collision, and a lot more. 
Usually, we boil that down to an equivalent   static load. And based on some testing, 
this is the equation most engineers use.   It’s just based on the deadweight tonnage 
(basically how much the ship can carry) and   its velocity. It’s interesting that they settled 
on deadweight, which doesn’t include the weight   of the ship itself. But again, this analysis is 
pretty complicated, especially because you have   to do it for every discrete grouping of vessel 
size and bridge component, so some simplifications   make sense, and since this one assumes every ship 
is fully loaded, it’s relatively conservative. Just for illustration, the ship that hit the 
Sunshine Skyway Bridge had a deadweight of   34,000 tonnes. The NTSB report doesn’t estimate 
the speed at which it hit the bridge, but let’s   say around 5 knots. That would be equivalent to 
a static force of around 56 meganewtons or 13   million pounds if the ship was fully loaded, which 
it wasn’t (but there’s no way to account for that   in this equation). The Dali has a deadweight of 
117,000 tonnes and was traveling at roughly 5   knots on impact. That’s equivalent to more 
than 100 meganewtons or 24 million pounds,   again, assuming the ship was fully loaded (which, 
again, it wasn’t). But you can validate this with   some back-of-the-envelope physics. Force 
is equal to mass times acceleration. We   know the mass of the ship and its cargo from 
records: about 112,000 metric tons. To decelerate   that mass from 5 knots to a standstill over 
the course of, let’s say, 4 seconds requires,   roughly, a force of 72 meganewtons or 16 
million pounds. Even as a rough guess,   that is a staggering number. It’s 5 SpaceX 
Starships pointed at a single bridge pier. Designing a bridge to handle these forces 
is obviously complicated. It’s not just the   pier itself that has to survive, but every 
element of the bridge along the entire load path,   including the foundation, and (assuming the pier 
isn’t perfectly rigid), the superstructure too.   Again, it’s not impossible to design, but it 
gets pricey fast, which is why designers have   more knobs to turn to meet the code than just 
the strength of the bridge itself. One of those   knobs is pier protection systems. Fenders can be 
installed to soften the blow of a ship impact,   but for ships of this size, they would have to 
be enormous. Islands can be built around piers   to force ships aground before the hit the bridge. 
But islands create environmental problems because   of the fill placed on the river bottom, plus they 
get really big for deeper channels, so the bridge   span has to be wider to keep the channel from 
being blocked. Islands can even affect currents   in the water and the bridge structure, creating 
additional load on the foundation as they settle   after construction. Another commonly used 
protection structure is called a dolphin. This   is usually a circular construction of driven sheet 
piles, filled with sand or concrete. Dolphins can   slow a ship, stop it altogether, or redirect 
it away from critical bridge elements like   piers. The new Sunshine Skyway Bridge used islands 
and dolphins to protect the rebuilt span, and   actually, the Key Bridge had four dolphins, one on 
either side of each main support. Unfortunately,   because it came at an angle, the Dali slipped 
past the protection when it lost control. It’s important to point out that everything 
I’ve discussed is a modern look at how engineers   consider vessel impacts to bridges. When the 
Francis Scott Key Bridge was finished in 1977,   there were no requirements like this, and 
the bridge never had a major rehabilitation   or repair that would have triggered adherence 
to the newer codes. Container ships the size   of Dali didn’t even exist until around 
2006. And we don’t know what the ships   of the future will look like. It’s easy 
to say with hindsight that a bridge like   this should have been better protected against 
errant ships, but if you say it for this one,   you really have to say it for all the bridges 
that see similar maritime traffic. And that   represents an enormous investment of resources 
for, potentially, not a lot of benefit to the   public, given how rare these situations are. 
That’s not me saying it shouldn’t be done;   it’s just me saying that a decision like that 
is a lot more complicated than it might seem. I   don’t expect we’ll see bridge design code changes 
come out of this event, but vessel collisions will   certainly be on the minds of the designers for the 
replacement in Baltimore. I’ll let Rob explain. When you take a look at photos of the Key Bridge, 
it looks like Maryland was doing a good job taking   care of their bridge. So if the NTSB report comes 
back and says the bridge was in good shape, it's   100% the ship that's at fault, well, I don't think 
any of us are going to be really that shocked. But for the old Gerald Desmond Bridge here 
in Long Beach, that used to be right here,   well, the environmental impact report, where they 
studied to build this new replacement bridge, the   port staff really didn't seem too concerned about 
a maritime navigation failure. Of a structural   failure? Let's just say engineers scored bridges 
out of 100 points. So you have a brand new bridge,   it gets 100 points. On that scale, the old 
Gerald Desmond Bridge that was right here   scored a 43. I mean, anything below 80 points, 
you get federal money to work on the bridge   to try to rehab it and get it back into good 
shape. And anything, anything under 50 points,   it's so bad the federal government starts throwing 
money in trying to help you replace the bridge. That's how bad off the Gerald Desmond Bridge was. 
Salt from the air of the sea and decades of it   sitting above sea water and all of that, just nice 
salt in the air, eating away at the paint. Well,   that paint was rated very poor on the 
old Gerald Desmond Bridge. And, you know,   paint protects all the bridge members, all the 
metal from rusting out. And as Grady points out,   every single member of a truss is 
really important if you, you know,   want the bridge to stay in good 
shape and not fall down, right? Engineers also conducted a load analysis. 
They tested to see as trucks drove over it,   how the bridge was holding up. And they found 
members of the arch main span were overstressed   for all design trucks. So that didn't matter 
if you drove a big truck or a little truck.   They were all causing problems with the bridge. 
And the concrete that those trucks drove on? It   was all cracking up. It was rated critical. The 
port had to install big nets to catch big chunks   of pavement that were falling off the bridge 
and could hit somebody on the head down here. So, Long Beach had four objectives that this new 
bridge needed to meet in order to build it. And   those goals may mirror some of the ones Baltimore 
may want to have when building their replacement   bridge. 1. This bridge had to have a design 
life of 100 years. Say, stay structurally sound   for that long. 2. Long Beach wanted to reduce the 
approach grades on both sides, even getting up to   155ft before. Sometimes you were driving up a 6% 
grade and now that this thing is over 200 ft high,   that would be way too steep. So they instead 
built these huge freeway viaducts that go on   and on for like a quarter of a mile to lift people 
and trucks gently up to that new bridge height.   Baltimore's bridge already has some very long 
approaches to it, so I don't know whether they're   going to replace the, uh, ramps approaching the 
bridge or not. It'll be interesting to see what   they end up deciding to do. 3. Provide sufficient 
roadway capacity to handle future car and truck   traffic. The old bridge here was two lanes 
in each direction. Four lanes. This widens   it to six. The Key bridge in Baltimore was also 
only four lanes. But this bridge handles twice   the traffic every day. You know, compared to 
the key bridge back when it was open, right? And both the Key Bridge and the old Gerald 
Desmond Bridge had no shoulders for emergency   vehicles and stalled cars to pull off to the 
side. And as you can see, the new bridge has   these excellent shoulders on both the outside 
and the inside of travel lanes. So that makes   the road a lot safer, because you're not going to 
run into the back of a stalled truck in the dark. It's also a lot safer if you're not in your 
car, because this bridge has a way you can   cross it without being in a car. They've added 
this 12ft wide pedestrian and bicycle pathway,   which is about 12ft wider than what they 
had before. Used to be on the old bridge,   The only way across was inside a car. It's a 
good start, certainly not perfect. Right now,   the path just hits this gate and stops. The city 
of LA owns the next harbor bridge down that way.   It's called the Vincent Thomas Bridge. It's also 
old, so it doesn't have a pedestrian walkway,   so this pathway sort of just ends at the 
city limit because there's nowhere for it   to go. But adding in a multi-use path like 
this one onto the new Key Bridge would be   such a no-brainer. It could take a four mile bike 
ride from like, Hawkins Point to Sparrows Point,   down from four miles with the bridge 
path from 22 miles right now, without it. And finally the fourth goal: providing vertical 
clearance for new generation of larger vessels,   which the new bridge certainly has. 
And that must make the port very happy.   And I'm willing to bet that Baltimore will 
take that goal and maybe turn it on its side   and talk about horizontal clearance and insist on 
a design that eliminates the risk of an allision,   like what happened on March 26th 
from ever happening again, Grady. Thanks Rob. If you love deep dives 
into transportation infrastructure,   go check out his channel after this. But, 
it’s important to point out that this wasn’t   just a bridge failure; it was a bridge failure 
precipitated by a maritime navigation failure.   Obviously, engineers who design bridges 
don’t have a lot of say in the redundancies,   safety standards, and navigation requirements 
of the vessels that pass underneath them. But   if you look at the whole context of this tragedy 
and ask, “How can our resources best be used to   prevent something like this from happening 
again?”, reducing the probability of a ship   this size losing control has to be included with 
the structural solutions like pier protection   systems. I don’t know a lot about that stuff, 
so I couldn’t tell you what that might include,   but I’m sure NTSB will have some recommendations 
when their report eventually comes out. Having   tugs accompany large ships while they 
traverse lightly protected bridges seems   like a prudent risk reduction measure, but 
that’s just coming from a civil engineer. And, speaking of risk reduction, I have to say 
that using risk analysis as a tool for design   is really not that satisfying. We humans are 
notoriously bad at understanding probabilities   and risks, and engineers are not that great 
at communicating what they mean to people   who don’t speak that language. That’s how we get 
confusing terminology like the hundred-year flood.   And it’s unsettling to come face-to-face with 
the idea that, even if our bridges are designed   and built to code, there’s still a chance of 
something like this. Everything’s a tradeoff,   but the people driving over the bridge (or working 
on it) had no direct say in where the line was   drawn or whether it applied retroactively, even as 
ships got bigger and bigger. But I hope it’s clear   why we do it this way. The question isn’t “Can we 
design bridges to be safer?” The answer to that   is always “yes.” The real question is, “How much 
risk can we tolerate?” or put in a different way,   “How much are we willing to spend on any 
incremental increase in safety?” Because the   answers to those questions are much more complex 
and nuanced. And if all bridges were required   to survive worst-case collisions with ships like 
Dali, we would just have a lot fewer bridges. But   sometimes it takes an event like this to remind 
us that risks aren’t just small numbers on a piece   of paper. They represent real consequences, and 
my heart goes out to the families of the victims   affected by this event. I hope we can honor them 
by learning from it and making improvements,   both to our infrastructure and our maritime 
systems, so that it doesn’t happen again. The Key Bridge collapse is a really interesting 
case study because it combines two really   different areas of understanding. Obviously, 
I can approach it from the bridge engineering   perspective, but there’s just as much, if 
not more, to understand from the maritime   side. Ships and marine navigation are 
literally a whole different world,   and my friend Sam from Wendover Productions 
has an awesome video specifically about   the crazy sophistication of the commercial 
fishing industry. I find it so fascinating   to learn about the little details behind 
industries I know nothing about, so honestly,   this entire series, “The Logistics of X” is 
so good, and it is only available on Nebula. You probably know about Nebula now, even if 
you’re not subscribed. It’s a streaming service   built by and for independent creators. No studio 
executives deciding what gets the green light,   no advertisements, and no algorithm driving 
the content into a single style. It’s just   independent creators making stuff their excited 
about with a few barriers and distractions as   possible between you and us. The website just 
got a huge update that completely redesigned   the home page, making it easier to find 
new stuff in addition to your favorites. My videos go live on Nebula before they come 
out here, and my Practical Construction series   was specifically produced for Nebula viewers who 
want to see deeper dives into specific topics.   I know there are a lot of streaming platforms 
out there right now, and no one wants another   monthly cost to keep track of, but I also know 
that if you’re watching a show like this to end,   there is a ton of other stuff on Nebula that 
you’re going to enjoy as well. So I’ve made   it dead simple: click the link below and you’ll 
get 40% off an annual plan. Pay just one time,   30 dollars, for an entire year’s access at 
nebula.tv/practical-engineering. Or if you have   subscription fatigue, but still want to support 
what I’m doing, you can get a lifetime membership.   Pay once and have access for as long as you 
and Nebula last. Hopefully that’s a long   time! If you’re with me that independent 
creators are the future of great video,   I hope you’ll consider subscribing. Thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think!