It is a question that I get a 
lot. "Hey what's with the deer?"   The picture is of a Sika Deer from Nara, 
Japan. There is no reason for the picture.   YouTube asked for a channel profile picture and I 
picked something cute from my latest trip abroad. I have visited Nara several times 
and enjoyed it there. But I found   the existing documentation 
on the deer rather lacking.   I figure since I have the deer on my 
channel that I should do a video about it. In this video, we are going to look at the Sika 
Deer of Nara Park and briefly, in Taiwan as well. The Sika deer is most famous for living in 
Japan, but it is also present across East Asia.   From Vietnam to China to Russia in the north, 
the Sika deer's range spreads far and wide. Before the waters rose, it is theorized 
that the lands beneath what is now the   South China and Japanese seas used to have 
deer too. But after the ice ages, the waters   and mountains rose and certain populations 
found themselves isolated on Japan and Taiwan. Sika in Japanese means deer, so the English 
name Sika deer literally means "deer deer".   In Chinese it is called "梅花鹿", the plum 
flower deer. Named after the beautiful   white spots on its summer coat. I will refer 
to it as the sika deer throughout this video. Like its relatives in North America, the sika deer 
thrives in a mix of forests and other habitats.   They are non-migratory, are 
not well suited to the winter,   and like to eat evergreen broad-leaved plants. 
Their main natural predators are bears and wolves. Human-deer interactions in East Asia vary 
by the country. In China and Vietnam,   their wild populations have been basically hunted 
to nothing. In Russia and Japan, they are still   quite common. Japan, especially so. They are 
overabundant to the point of being a pest. Nara City is the capital city of Japan's 
Nara prefecture. It borders Kyoto and had   been the capital of Japan for 80 years from 
710 to 794 when the Emperor lived there. Nara the city is pretty interesting but 
the Park is the big tourist attraction.   About 2 million tourists a year 
come to see the big temples   and feed the thousand or so deer living 
there. Unlike with other populations of   sika deer, these deer are used to humans 
and left essentially to free-range. The Nara deer are considered sacred, 
a tradition that dates back to 1006.   11th century documents and paintings 
now in the Nara National Museum   show a god from the Kashima shrine riding a 
white spotted deer to the nearby Mt. Kasuga. By the 13th century, the killing of a Nara 
deer was equated to the killing of a priest.   They were protected from harm by the Kofuku-ji 
Temple, once one of the Seven Great Temples.   In 1602, Tokugawa Ieyasu, the 
first Shogun of Edo-era Japan,   continued this tradition and 
punished those who killed the deer. Without any existing natural predators or 
culling by humans, the deer population grew fast.   The exploding population became a 
problem for the local Nara people   because the deer are immensely 
damaging to crops and plant life.   And as any Nara Park visitor knows, they 
can get super aggressive towards people. 70 years later, the Japanese government found 
that they had to do something about the deer.   Too many locals were complaining. So they 
began ceremoniously sawing off their antlers   to keep them from destroying lanterns and 
to reduce injuries to people. This is still   being done and explains why many of the deer 
in Nara you see today have stumpy antlers. In 1880, Nara Park was established. It 
was the time of modernization in Japan.   Old traditions were abandoned, seen as just 
superstitions. The deer lost their special   place and were penned up in the park, where 
overcrowding and poaching began taking a toll. By the end of World War II, there were just 79 
deer left in Nara Park, the result of neglect   and declining resources. The Government declared 
them a national treasure in 1957 and since then   the Foundation for the Protection of Deer in 
Nara Park has been managing the population:   Moving pregnant females in preparation 
for birth. Cutting their antlers. And   moving problem deer away from 
private property into the park. ## The Nara Deer Today There are about 1000-1500 deer in Nara 
Park - a very dense population for a small   6 square kilometer area. Despite the amount 
of rice crackers they steal from tourists,   their primary diet comes from grazing 
on the grasses and plants in the park.   They are also known to steal bamboo 
from temples and religious festivals. The density of the population makes their 
lives hard. Studies of their bone marrow   found that most of the Nara park deer are 
extremely skinny. There is simply not enough   food to eat for them to get fat and were it not 
for humans many of them would probably starve. Adjacent to Nara Park are the primeval forests of 
Mt Kasuga. Logging and hunting are forbidden here,   but the deer are known to migrate into the forests 
to eat. Their grazing has affected the forestry   and has given the advantage to certain taller 
trees and plants that the deer do not like to eat. There have been proposals to fence off the 
forests from the deer, but this has not been   really pursued because it would cause the deer 
to go elsewhere (i.e. private property) for food. The sheer amount of deer and their search for 
food has caused them to be hit by cars and   trains in the area. Various reflectors and fencing 
measures have been implemented to deal with this,   but you still get around 5-10 deer-train 
collisions a month during the peak migratory   seasons around January. Many more are hit 
by cars during periods of low visibility. It has been over 3 years since I have last been to 
Japan. I loved my time there. Walking across the   city to get to the park. Checking out the temples 
and standing in line to see what is inside.   All of that was fun. But the most memorable 
parts of my time there involved the deer of Nara. I don’t think anyone visiting Japan for the 
first time should pass up seeing the deer.   They will be the highlight of any trip. Since I live in Taiwan, I feel that it is 
necessary to leave Nara and tell you a bit   about the Formosan Sika Deer. Having reached 
Taiwan over 40,000 years ago with a land bridge,   they quickly established 
themselves all across the island. The Taiwanese aboriginal people hunted the 
Formosan sika deer for their meat and skins.   Since there were not that many people 
around, the Sika populations remained high.   But in the 1600s, the Dutch came to 
Taiwan and established a settlement. They hunted the deer and devastated its 
population, basically removing it from all   of its lands. 110,000 skins a year were being 
exported to Japan back then. The Japanese came   afterwards and ruthlessly exploited them as well. 
The last wild Formosan Sika Deer was shot in 1969. But even though they were extinct in the wild,   the deer bred well in captivity and two 
captive populations remained in Taiwan.   The first was in the Taipei Zoo. The second 
was on Green Island, brought there at the   start of the century for breeding and 
then released in the wild after the 80s. It was decided to reintroduce the Sika deer to 
the Kenting National Park in 1984. This group   of Sika deer grew well and today the population 
is about a thousand-strong. If you’re in Taipei,   definitely consider going to see the Sika deer 
of Taiwan roaming their enclosures and eating.