- Today it is just me. So my friends over at Lenovo reached out and wanted to sponsor a video. I knew I couldn't just do a regular video. This is the Yoga Pro 9i, although here in North America, it's known as the Lenovo Slim Pro 9i. So when I started working on this video I had a call with Lenovo and they were kind of
telling me about the Pro 9i and you know, some of the
features and you know, obviously this is a very powerful laptop that is designed for creators. But for me, it got me thinking. It has been a long time since
I have done a video solo. For some context, I
have been making videos, by the time you watch this, for 14 years. This is the city where
I shot videos for years. (train horn toots) I don't miss that at all. The amount of videos that have been shot right where I'm standing is incredible. Like, this is the place where I went from being
a solo YouTuber to, by the time we left, having a team of over 10 people and multiple channels. It was like I came in one person and I left a very different one. While I love where we're at right now there was a really happy point in my life where I did all of this by myself. I'll be honest, some days it feels like I'm more of a business
person than a YouTuber. And while I absolutely love the fact that I have an amazing
team to help me do that, sometimes I just wanna do it on my own. When I had this opportunity from Lenovo to make this video on the Pro 9, it really made sense to me to come back, in a lot of ways, home,
to talk about this laptop and make this video using the laptop. So I am actually using the
Pro 9i to edit this video, to now only have a better appreciation for the power of this device, but also to have a little
bit more appreciation for how far things have come. So lemme tell you a little bit
about the Lenovo Yoga lines because things have evolved a lot over the last couple of years. So while traditionally Yogas
have been convertibles, instead, one of the main
things you'll see here that are actually a number of lines that are not convertibles. So you've got the All in ones, you've got these Slim line, as well as you've got the Pro line. And that's what I've got here today. It's something which is very much designed for professionals. When you think about what
the Pro 9i is all about, it really is focused on delivering an incredibly high level of performance in a very slim and easy to carry chassis. While there is both a 14.5 and a 16 inch
version of this laptop, for me it's not even a close competition. The 14.5 is absolutely the move for me. Now if you value a larger screen size, by all means the 16 is available. They're largely the same. It's a couple of minor
advantages on the 16, like you've got a little
bit better performance thanks to it's improved, you know, cooling assembly is physically larger. But there is a time where I dailied, 15 and 16 inch laptops. I did that though
because I had to do that. Going down to a small laptop meant massively sacrificing
the performance. But now you got a 4070, an
RTX 4070 inside, Core i9. I've got 64 gigs of RAM in this laptop and it fits in a bag without even having to
give it a second thought. So I've been editing the
video you're watching so far on the Yoga Pro 9i today,
and I have a few takeaways. First and foremost is the performance. So the Yoga Pro 9i comes in a wide variety of configurations. So this is pretty much
the absolute max spec. It's outfitted with a Core i9 13905H which is a 14 core CPU. But importantly, Lenovo have also gotten a smaller overall package for the CPU, which basically means there's
more room on the motherboard, you have larger fans inside, there's less internal space
being taken up by that CPU. And on top of that there's
also a performance advantage. Because the RAM can be so
close to the actual CPU it means that we were actually
getting even higher speeds, 6,400 megahertz with an RTX 4070 on board. Clearly there's a lot of
GPU horsepower on tap. Now, don't get me wrong,
this is not a gaming laptop. Now it does have a very
nice 165 hertz display. I'll talk about that in a second, but it's meant much more
so as a creative device. You can certainly game
on this, and you know, I may or may not do a
little bit on the side but it really is meant
more for creative tasks. And through squirrels who are apparently very much happy to hang out. My dude, I don't have anything. One area where you were
not sacrificing performance is with the display. So this is using what Lenovo call their PureSight Pro panels,
3K resolution, 165 hertz. I like the color accuracy and
I also appreciate the fact that it does get really quite bright even when I'm outside trying to edit. Then there's the premium suite, which encompasses a number
of different options. So, (beep). So I was editing this part of the video when I realized that it was
not exactly a great idea to do an audio demo outside where there's wind and squirrels. So why don't I show you the
premium suite in the studio. The webcam, as well as the IR sensor for Windows Hello facial recognition live above the display
in a little sort of notch that allows you to easily
not only open the laptop, but importantly has space
for a high quality webcam. Also, this Pro 9i does
have a little switch on the side of the laptop, which will immediately
turn off the webcam. Now you're probably
not supposed to do this while it's recording, but... I don't know what happens. Oh, it just shuts it off entirely. Okay, so if I turn it off, the webcam is completely disconnected and then if I flip it
back on, it still works. Boy, I hope that didn't just
ruin my recording. (chuckles) And to give you just a little sample, right now you are listening
to these four microphones that are built into the Pro 9i. (upbeat music) The four speakers built into the Pro 9i are also really quite high quality. (upbeat music) The inputs here are also quite nice. You've got yourself a
generously sized touch pad as well as a keyboard with
1.5 millimeters of key travel. I usually type somewhere
in the neighborhood of 90 ish words per minute. All right, ready, and... Woo, okay, 80 words per minute. I choked there. I'm gonna do one more. I'm gonna do one more, just, you know. Boom, 102 words per
minute, perfect accuracy. That's what I'm talking about. This is such a good keyboard. Obviously, laptop keyboards can be a variety of different types of okay to decent to pretty solid. And I would say this is
absolutely on the top tier. I'm glad I did the second time. (laughs) On top of that, there's also
a full two month subscription to the Adobe Creative Cloud. And importantly, it's not just a trial. Even if you already have
a subscription to Adobe, all it'll do when you buy this laptop, you activate it, it'll
give you two months off which is like $100 in legitimate value. And then there's the
sustainability aspect to consider. So this laptop is using
Tidal Teal as the color, which I absolutely love. On top of that it's
using recycled aluminum, and you know, the
packaging is eco-friendly. But when you combine that with
the excellent port selection including dual USB-C / Thunderbolts, you've got a full size
SD card reader, HDMI, you have two USB-As. It is so, so nice to have
all the ports I need. Like, look, I completely understand that this is a sponsored
video by Lenovo, right? There is no question about that. But if you ask me what is
my ideal creator laptop, this is basically it. I love the look, I love the display, I love the performance,
the port selection. There's not really a whole lot more that you can ask for, for a device, which is specifically
designed for creatives. At the end of the day, there are of course a huge variety of different devices
that can help you create the creative tasks that you want to. There's no right answer for everyone. But the fact that Lenovo
have made a device, which is this competent in, essentially, every single way that I
could possibly ask for, is incredibly impressive. So if you wanna know more, definitely be sure to go check it out at the link of the description. And big thank you to Lenovo for not only sponsoring this video but really giving me the incentive to get out here and make
an old school video, come back to some of the old
school spots we used to shoot. (sighs) Feels good, man. It really feels good.