- Let's go on a journey
of discovery, my friends. Let's see what's in (hand knocking) the mystery box. So of course, I wanna give a shout out to our friends at Lenovo Legion and Intel for sponsoring this video and sending out this very
large, mysterious box. We have the laptop! 2023 is a uniquely great
time to buy a gaming laptop. The stars have aligned, my friends, because what we've seen here is an upgrade that rarely happens at the same time. Traditionally, if you're
buying a gaming laptop, you're gonna see a new model come out, and it's gonna have a new CPU, or a new screen, or a new GPU. But very rarely do all of those things happen at the same time. And that is exactly what we have here with the Lenovo Legion Pro 7i, not only the brand new 13th
Gen Intel Core processors but also the brand new Nvidia
RTX 40 series graphics. When you consider the CPU
performance of this system and you consider the fact
that you can go all the way up to an RTX 4090, you've
got a ton of performance and a package which you
can thankfully assume won't be immediately out of date when something new comes
out in three months. You go, "Ah, I should have waited!" You don't have to wait. Now, this is part of the Legion Pro series which includes not only this Pro 7i that I have to take a look at but also the Legion Pro 5i, which is very much meant to give you that high performance just
on a slightly lower budget. So let's start by talking about
these new Intel processors. So the system I have behind me has an Intel Core i9 13900 HX with a whopping 24 CPU cores. Thanks to things like
Intel's Thread Director means of course, with that
many cores, you're going to have some excellent
multitasking performance. But on top of that, you also have a ton of performance for gaming. So with tech such as
Intel's Thread Director which essentially allows Windows to accurately schedule
programs and services based on what kind of cores you've got, right? So you've got those efficiency cores which are going to help
you with battery life, they're gonna be much
more energy efficient, but we need the absolute
maximum performance. Thread Director will then say, "Oh, hey, "let's schedule this onto the big cores," which is certainly gonna have a hit to like your battery life, for example. But if you're gaming or you're
doing super intense tasks you want every bit of
performance you can get. And as you'll see in the gaming demo here in a minute, the amount of
performance you're getting out of the laptop which
actually fits in your bag has been tremendously improved. Not that long ago, we were
using Quad Core laptops and GPUs that were like, I don't know half as powerful as their
desktop counterparts. Now, with some of the
stuff that specifically the Lenovo have done
with this Legion Pro 7i, you get so much more performance to the point where you could arguably say this could replace your desktop. Part of the reason that you do get so much extra performance are through features such
as Lenovo's AI Engine+. Now, the way this works
is really interesting. Not only is it leveraging software which is what the older
version of this did, but it also has the
dedicated LA1 chip built in. Now you may hear the words AI and think, "Oh, my laptop needs AI, too,
got it," but it actually is a little bit more clever
than you might expect. So there are two aspects of this, one of which is understanding what the laptop is doing right now. So traditionally, you've
got yourself a CPU and you've got yourself a GPU. Each of these have their
own dedicated power budgets, so maybe 45 watts for your CPU and 125 watts for your
GPU, at least in the past. Now, that was fine, that
was great, but the thing is a lotta times, you actually
didn't need the max on either at the same time, right? So say I maybe have the
cooling for 200 watts but my GPU's taking it all up and my CPU's just sitting
around doing nothing for specific games. Well, in those scenarios, you are actually leaving performance on the table while still having your
system running really hot and really loud, et cetera, et cetera. Now with the Lenovo AI Engine+
what you're getting here is something which is constantly
trying to learn the games that you're playing and
adjusting your settings completely independent of
anything you're seeing, right? So it's not actually like
changing the settings of the game it's changing the actual power budgets of your individual chips. This is really cool
because to you as a user you don't have to do anything. It is constantly running
in the background. And while it does not work for all games this smart engine that is built inside has a ton of potential. Now all the 13th gen Intel CPUs and the RTX 40 series graphics
have a lot of performance, they also do need a lot of cooling which is part of the
reason why Lenovo brought out their ColdFront 5.0 tech. There's a few things involved here including an optional
vapor chamber, as well as super thin fan blade that are up to or down to 0.1 millimeters. Wait, how thin is a piece of paper? - [Kinsey] So a regular
coffee paper ranges from .05 to .1 millimeters. - So there you go. These fan blades are as thin as paper except that they have a whole lot of them and they're not gonna
be as floppy as paper. Actually, that's kind of
interesting to think about. Sorry, I was just getting
a wild tangent here. The thing is, having good
cooling is incredibly important. And again, we're pushing
175 watts on the TDP on this laptop, while also
still preserving the rear ports. So last year I made a video discussing why I personally think that gaming laptops have gotten good enough
to replace desktops for a lot of people. And the big reason for that is just how portable this performance is. What you're getting here
is not only it comes with a slimmer charger, so it's gallium, but also on top of that, you've got an absolutely massive battery inside, 99.99 watt hours, AKA,
the largest legal battery you could possibly take
with you onto an airplane. In addition to the brick
that it comes with as is, you also can take advantage
of USB-C charging. In fact, you can go all
the way up to 140 watts. Good luck finding a
140 watt USB-C charger, but it will take that or obviously
it'll take like, 100 watt or 65 watt charger for more regular use. And you also have
yourself the AI light sync which, as you can see behind
me, will mirror your display if you'd like, which is
definitely my favorite mode. Look, my keyboard matches my screen. You've also got the TrueStrike keyboard which not only has 1.5
millimeters of key travel but it also does have the full per R key RGB, per key RGP. Per key RGB, per key, (beep) But that also will pair with
the RGB that is all built all around the rest of the system which means that it actually
can look pretty nifty if you want to tinker. Look, that's a whole lot of spec talk. Why don't we actually play some games and see what the latest
and greatest really can do. Starting out, we have
Microsoft Flight Simulator. Oh, this is the, oh, oh,
we're just doing it now. Oh, I didn't realize I
was already taxied out. Okay, well, let's see if a 747
can take off at John Wayne. We're flying. So the Tobii Horizon tech which is built into this
laptop, essentially means that for certain supported
games such as Flight Simulator I don't have to actually use
my controls to look round. I can look right, I can
look left, up, down. It's a really cool bit of tech. - [Kinsey] Try tilting your head. - What the, oh, I didn't
realize it did tilt. - [Kinsey] It's got
yaw, pitch, and roll. - Pitch and yaw. The fact that you're getting
this level of graphics in a laptop is really impressive. Does anyone think they're
gonna make it to the airport? I don't think I'm gonna
make it to the airport. - [Matt] I'm not
even convinced you're flying in the right direction. - Oh, god, oh, god. Wait, wait, wait. Okay, we're just gonna make
an aggressive turn here. We're just gonna shave off a few minutes. We're running a little bit late here. Oh, okay, but that was
not what I meant to do. - [Joanna] Hey, uh,
I think you crashed. - Uh-oh! Moving on. Next up, we have Forza Horizon
5, which is actually included with the three months
of free Xbox Game Pass, which comes with the Legion. So performance is one thing but the screen quality
is an entirely other area that laptops have come a long
way the last couple of years. This has a 2560 by 1600 display which can run up to 240 hertz which especially with the
4080 inside is important because you really wanna
be able to take advantage of all of the performance that
your laptop is capable of. Now, we do have a display here and I'm gonna play on
that in just a second. But honestly, if you're
pushing anywhere close to 240 frames per second in
games, it's very difficult to really find the need
for an external display. Unlike a lot of older gaming laptops where the displays were just kind of okay, this is terrific, this is incredibly good. All right, let's go, let's go, let's go. Oh, I'm not gonna make it. I'm not gonna make it. I'm not gonna make it. Ah. Okay, I'm not gonna go
through the whole song and dance about why you
don't need a desktop. If you really want a desktop,
by all means go for it. Obviously, there are
still advantages there. But when you consider just
what you're able to get out of a fully portable laptop it makes me really second guess things. It really does. Look, this is so impressive. Next up, we've got "Halo Infinite". And for this, I'm actually
gonna be using the display. So this is the Lenovo Legion Y27-QF-30. And what I'm getting here
is a 27-inch 1440p display that can run all the way up to 250 hertz. Normally, you would need a very powerful gaming
computer to do this. However, I'm actually getting pretty solid frame rates directly on the laptop. You've also got an HDMI 2.1
port built into the laptop which does mean a big
difference if you're going to be playing at higher frame
rates, higher resolutions. You don't really have to
worry about it too much. And wow, I am... These bots are really bad. If I'm killing you, you know that you're not very good at this. This is such a rare moment
where you have the new tech across the board between
CPUs, GPUs, the hardware. This Legion has so much going for it that I would highly
recommend you to check it out at the link in the description. And of course, huge thank
you to both Lenovo Legion as well as Intel for
sponsoring this video. I'm going to go beat the bots again, so I feel better about my gaming prowess. Because as we all know it's one thing to have great hardware, it's another thing to actually be good at gaming. I have half of those things.