In Japanese semiconductor lore, the 
VLSI Project holds a special place. Many people both in and outside of Japan 
point to it as the key development to pave   the way towards Japanese dominance 
of the world semiconductor industry. But how did the VLSI Project 
actually work? And how did it   actually help the industry leapfrog the Americans? In this video, we revisit the VLSI 
Project (超LSI国家プロジェクト) - and the   strengthening of Japanese semiconductor industry. ## Beginnings
It all started because of a rumor about IBM. IBM had long been in the Japanese computer 
industry, winning business there despite   many market and cultural challenges. Powerful 
products like the System 370 - a successor to   the 360 and first introduced in 1970 - were 
especially popular and gained market share. That year 1970, domestic Japanese computer firms 
had 60% of their own market. Four years later,   that had fallen to 48%. IBM 
was catching up with 30%. IBM was far larger than any of the 
big Japanese computer-makers. In 1974,   IBM generated 4 trillion yen in 
revenue and spent 300 billion yen   in R&D. Globally Big Blue had 62% 
of the world market in computers. By contrast, Japan's largest local computer-market 
Fujitsu only produced 240 billion yen in revenue   and spent only 25 billion yen in R&D. 
Globally their market share was just 3%. IBM's gains from 1970 to 1974 came amidst 
further pressure on the Japanese from   the United States government to 
liberalize their computer market. The prospect of Japan's local firms 
totally losing their own market to   IBM struck fear into the heart 
of Japanese politicians and its   Ministry of International Trade 
and Industry or ("MITI") (通産省). ## The FS Plan Threat In 1975, a significant rumor swept through Japan.   A Fujitsu employee received several 
IBM documents released in a court case. In it, IBM detailed a plan they had secretly 
initiated in 1971 called the "Future Systems"   or FS Plan. The plan was to replace the System/370 
with a line of revolutionary new systems based on   cutting edge technologies. One of the targets was 
a 1-megabit memory chip to be released in 1980. Unbeknownst to the Japanese, IBM had already 
killed the FS Project that year - likely due   to issues with program incompatibility 
and generating the necessary technology   breakthroughs. Some of its ideas eventually did 
make it to the market though as the System/38. Nevertheless, the rumor spurred the 
government into action. IBM had coined   this classification for its systems. 
The first generation is a vacuum tube,   second generation a transistor, and the 
third generation an integrated circuit. A Generation 3.5 system like the System 360 is 
a "LSI" or Large Scale Integrated system. So the   next step beyond that - the fourth generation - 
would be "Very Large Scale Integrated" systems. The chips in such systems were defined as having   over 100,000 devices on it - so things 
starting with the 64K DRAM generation. Japan had to have a VLSI system of its 
own for the market. The politicians'   first instinctual response had been to 
merge the five or six existing Japanese   computer companies - thinking that IBM's heft 
can only be matched by a company of equal size. But the companies themselves resisted 
this. They had already gone through   a round of forced partnerships in 
the late 1960s - paired into three   groups of two like as if they were in 
elementary school - with little results. Instead in April 1974, the Japan 
Electronic Industry Development   Association proposed a cooperative 
R&D project for VLSI development. ## R&D Consortiums in Japan Many histories talk about the VLSI 
Project like as if the idea fell   out of the sky - a lightning strike 
of inspiration. The reality is that   Japan had been doing R&D consortiums 
for a long time with good success. The VLSI Project was set up as an Engineering 
Research Association or ERA structure,   which the Japanese have used for nearly 
two decades. They lifted it from the United   Kingdom. The British government had long used 
Research Associations or RAs to financially   support and promote collaboration 
between competitors in an industry. Traditionally these British Research Associations   did not last very long - the maximum was 
about 11.5 years - and involved about 5-9   small-and-medium sized businesses 
rather than large conglomerates. After World War II ended, the Director of MITI’s   Mechanical Engineering Lab Dr. Masao 
Sugimoto observed a few of these RAs   and decided to employ a similar model to 
help rebuild Japan's mechanical industry. Due to the War, the American Occupation 
had dissembled the major conglomerates,   the Zaibatsu. So most companies in Japan 
were small and medium businesses. The RA   seemed like an ideal tool 
to upskill these companies. Dr. Suigimoto first tried this tactic with 
5-6 Japanese radiator companies in 1955. It was a success and led to many more of these 
ERAs to be established during the 1960s in   areas as diverse as camera lenses, pistons, 
bearings, polymers, and camshaft bearings. These ERAs had a number of common 
features. MITI would issue a formal   tender. 10-12 companies would be assigned 
to it, with one as the project lead. The ERA   would be established as a formal legal 
entity and sign a contract with MITI. After completing the contract, it 
dissolves - just like a Mr. Meeseeks. So the structure had been around. But it 
did recede for a while until after the   energy crises of the 1970s. When MITI 
decided to use it for VLSI systems,   it was the first time such a thing 
had been used for the industry. ## Basic and Common The VLSI Project's timelines and 
deadlines were set according to rumor. If IBM's rumored 1 megabit 
chip was planned for 1980,   then the Japanese needed something 
of their own to be ready by 1979. Moving from existing LSI systems to 
VLSI-class systems would require new   equipment upgrades and operation paradigms 
across the entire manufacturing line. The five participants were Fujitsu, 
Hitachi, Mitsubishi Electric, NEC,   and Toshiba. They were fierce 
competitors - Toshiba, NEC,   and Hitachi in particular. And they continued 
to battle each other outside of the project. MITI determined that the best way 
to get these competitors to work   together was to focus on problems 
upstream from their own products. The phrase continually used by MITI roughly 
translates to "basic" and "common" ("基礎的共通的"). The   work of actually making the computers 
would be left to the members themselves. Two themes of this type of basic 
and common research were chosen:   Microfabrication and silicon wafers. I want to note that the United States' 
SEMATECH initiative - when selecting   their own areas of research 
- also went upstream in the   same way a few years later. Targeting 
the semiconductor equipment makers. So from the outset, the Project's goal was to 
make VLSI-class computers, not necessarily chips.   This computer angle explains why several 
companies were excluded from the project. Even those known for being good semiconductor 
makers like Oki or Sony. In March 1976,   the VLSI Project was announced to the public 
for the first time. Things were underway. ## Organization The VLSI Project was budgeted 
to last for four years. Half of its total $288 million 
budget was contributed by the   consortium's participants. The other 
half would be funded by the government   in the form of interest-free 
and repayable-whenever loans. The project was led by a board of directors 
staffed by each of the five member companies'   presidents. Its managing director was Masato 
Nebashi (根橋正人氏) - a grandfatherly MITI   executive who soothed egos, drank a lot with the 
individual participants, and kept things rolling. Ironically enough, he went to 
go work for IBM Japan a little   bit after finishing his time at the 
project, before returning and retiring. 80% of the VLSI Project funding went to 
companies for performing research within   their own laboratories, with the majority of the 
knowledge flowing only to them. The remainder was   for cooperative efforts, where the competitors 
had to work together and all shared in the gains. This includes a full "joint" or cooperative lab,   with staff chosen from all five companies 
working together in the wing of an NEC building. This lab was run by Yasuo Tarui (垂井康夫), who is 
still alive as this writing and now 94 years old! In addition to the full cooperative lab, we 
also had two "group labs", with NEC and Toshiba   working together in the first group lab and the 
other three project participants in the other. ## Japanese-American Tensions During the project's development, several 
people in the Japanese government - notably   a budget examiner in the Ministry of 
Finance named Nakahira - cautioned   that its subsidies will trigger 
tensions with the United States. Their worries were well-founded. In May 1977, 
shortly after the project began, one of the   laboratories published the results of their work 
- a variable-shaped beam device for lithography. This announcement was not published in a dry 
academic forum but rather in a public Japanese   newspaper. Probably because the lab wanted 
the public to know what they were doing with   government money. But the widespread coverage 
quickly made its way to the United States. Before long, American semiconductor leaders 
like Wilf Corrigan of Fairchild and Charles   Sporck of National Semiconductor 
were calling the VLSI Project and   its government subsidies anti-competitive. 
The question kept coming up again and again,   "What is Japan's VLSI Project doing?" People working in the project wanted 
to dispel these misunderstandings   and falsehoods. But secrecy 
requirements did not allow it. Notably on December 5th 1977, the 
Cooperative Lab director Tarui was   asked to give a speech in Washington 
DC for the organization IEEE. Tarui   saw an opportunity to clarify what 
was really going on in the project. He asked for permission to broadly explain what 
the group labs were working on. He also asked   for permission to clarify the budget 
and put it into context - especially   that just 10-20% of the project 
budget would be spent on its most   controversial part - the supposedly 
anticompetitive cooperative work. But for reasons unknown, Managing Director Nebashi 
did not grant this permission. So unfortunately   Tarui could only give the vaguest of descriptions 
to the 600 people in the audience - which included   semiconductor professionals and politicians. It 
was a missed opportunity in US-Japanese relations. ## Technology Development: Lithography So what were the VLSI Project’s 
three group labs actually working on? The "Joint" lab led by Tarui 
handled the most significant   topics for the Project. This included lithography,   with six prototype tools produced using 
ultraviolet light, X-rays, and electron beams. The ultraviolet light tools were 
photolithography tools - using optical   systems and light to shrink and project 
a design onto a wafer. Such technologies   were the most commonly used of the era. 
However, the 1-megabit memories that IBM   was thought to use for its FS Project would 
require IC feature sizes below 1 micrometer. The Japanese believed that photolithography cannot 
achieve sub-micrometer feature sizes because the   wavelengths can’t get any smaller. So the project 
especially focused their efforts on the two   technologies they saw as photolithography's heirs 
- X-ray lithography and electron beam lithography. One prototype tool was what we now call a 
Proximity X-ray lithography machine. It is   a shadow printing technique using high 
energy x-rays. There is no size reduction,   so you have to make the mask at the 
same size of the final product. The lab   eventually found it impractical - it was 
too hard aligning the mask to the wafer. Thus, electron beam lithography was 
seen as the single most promising   next-generation lithography and 
the team explored two directions. The first was a variation of what we now 
call electron beam projection lithography.   You fire an electron beam onto a mask 
that shrinks the mask's features to a   fourth of its size. As a result, it can 
print at a resolution of 0.2 micrometers. The second was different, and quite innovative - 
the photocathode. You fire light onto a layer of   Cesium Iodide, which emits electrons that can be 
focused towards the wafer using a magnetic field. Confusingly enough, in addition to all 
this electron beam lithography work,   the Project also worked on electron beam direct 
lithography. This is where we manipulate the   beam like as if it were a pencil or a finger of 
God to directly draw a design onto a substrate. These devices were eventually transferred 
to Toshiba Machining - later named NuFlare   Technology - to sell machines to write photomasks. ## Canon and Nikon Despite the majority of the lab's effort 
focused elsewhere, work was still done on   photolithography. In the end, photolithography 
was not yet ready to cede the throne. Such efforts established Nikon and Canon's 
dominance in photolithography. The lab had   commissioned three exposure 
tools from the two companies. Two of them used traditional ultraviolet 
light - the 436 nanometer g-line - to   print wafers. The machines were 
called the VL-SR1 and VL-SR2. A third - MR1 - would use a tighter wavelength 
- classified as Deep Ultraviolet or DUV. This   MR1 DUV machine used mirrors for optics - 
similar to the EUV lithography machine years   later. Canon later sold the MR1 as a tool 
for producing LCD panels, a smaller market. Canon made the VL-SR1. The SR1 was a proximity 
aligner with a 1:1 sized mask. This meant that   the masks' features needed to be just 
as small as the chip itself - which   was a lot of work. It can also only 
print feature sizes of 2 micrometers. Smaller feature print sizes and 
a mask that is harder to make are   big downsides. The upside though is 
that you can print a larger area of   the wafer than the SR2 - a 30 by 30 
millimeter plot versus just 10 by 10. Nikon made the VL-SR2. The VL-SR2 uses optics 
to shrink the chip design by 10 times to reach   feature sizes of 1 micrometer - half the size 
of the SR1 and meeting the threshold for VLSI. The VL-SR2 is a "step-and-repeat" tool, 
or steppers. You basically move the mask   across the wafer, flashing as you 
go. This requires extremely precise   mechanics to position the wafer with 
micrometer accuracy to prevent one   wafer exposure from interfering with the 
others. In other words, good overlay. To do this, the VL-SR2 implemented an 
innovative laser position alignment system   that another Japanese governmental entity - 
the Electric Research Institute - patented   ten years earlier. This laser alignment system 
allows you to measure exactly where the wafer is   and position it, allowing Nikon to reduce 
overlay errors to unprecedented levels. Working with the VLSI Project people on 
VL-SR1 and VL-SR2 allowed Nikon and Canon   to realize that they had something 
good. Nikon quickly commercialized   their VL-SR2 prototype - releasing 
it in 1980 as the NSR-1010G stepper. Meanwhile, the new learnings from 
the Project allowed Canon to improve   their PLA-series of proximity aligner 
tools and win the market. Then in 1984,   Canon joined Nikon in the stepper space 
when they released their FPA-1500. Later on, Tarui regarded the development 
of electron beam lithography along with   the perfection of the stepper 
mechanism using laser alignment   to be the VLSI project's crowning achievements. ## Technology Development: Silicon Crystal The second major area of technology 
development was in silicon crystal.   This involved mostly wafers, but 
also other things incidental to it. With regards to wafers, the VLSI Project 
commissioned prototypes of larger diameter   5-inch wafers from existing Japanese wafer 
makers. They inspected those prototypes for   warpage and defects, working with 
the manufacturers to improve them. A large group also worked on epitaxial 
growth - using beams to create very pure   and well-structured layers of silicon 
on top of the existing wafer surface. The silicon wafer work done was 
world-class and the Japanese became   one of the best at it. One of those 
manufacturers Shin-Etsu - another   non-member of the VLSI Project - is now 
the world's biggest silicon wafer maker. ## Others
The final three items - dry etch, diagnosing, and design structures - were handled 
by the two smaller group labs. I don’t   think they were significant so let 
me just briefly go through them. "Dry etch" refers to a broad category of 
manufacturing steps wherein you engrave   the chip design onto the wafers 
after lithography. Dry etch is a   newly developed variant of the etch that 
does not use chemical-based wet baths. "Diagnosing", which I presume to be a 
reference to the category of mask inspection   tools and similar tools for inspecting 
the wafer as it goes through production. The last section involved basic transistor 
design structures and CAD software. This seemed   to have involved the work of developing better 
simulation technologies for advanced chip design. ## Results The VLSI Project did not produce 
a single commercialized product. Yet it upgraded Japan's semiconductor equipment 
industry. It helped strengthen Japan's two weaker   computer makers - NEC and Mitsubishi. And it 
helped launch Japan towards building more chips. In 1980, the Japanese conglomerates 
invested a cumulative $1 billion   into new plants and capital for 64K memory. By 1982, the Japanese had a staggering 70% 
market share in 64K memory - the first of what   we call "VLSI systems". Such advanced memories 
could not have been produced so cheaply and at   such volume without the procedures studied 
in the project. Particularly lithography. The next year, they unveiled the 
next generation memory 256K DRAM   and started to put that into high volume 
production. This subsequent Japanese surge   was widely perceived in the United States 
to have been caused by the VLSI Project. A panel in the US House of Representatives 
concluded in a 1983 report that "coordinated   research partially underwritten 
by the Japanese government has   given Japanese companies a major share of 
the world market in 64K RAM microchips." As a result, the United States 
government and industry closely   studied the Japanese VLSI Project and 
emulated it - amending their anti-trust   laws with the National Cooperative 
Research Act of 1984 in doing so. One year later, in 1985, Fujitsu announced 
that they had achieved AGI - oh wait, sorry,   the 1-megabit memory chip. 
Rumor had now become reality. ## Conclusion
As mentioned, the vast majority of the consortium's total funds - 
80-90% - was spent the normal way. Nevertheless it was the first 
time a semiconductor R&D project   had a cooperative portion. And that is a 
legit breakthrough in the semiconductor   industry - one copied in subsequent 
years by the United States and others. But making it work was challenging. Learnings 
that worked for, say, NEC would not have worked   for Fujitsu especially when you start to 
move them towards high volume production. NEC Executive Vice President 
Michiyuki Uenohara said: > Even in Japan, cooperation among competing 
companies is almost impossible as technical   development moves closer to product levels. 
This is not only due to business competition,   but also due to differences in fine details of 
process technology, which has been accumulated   for many years and integrated into [the 
individual company's] major automation systems Considering this and the vast logistical 
challenges of getting competitors to work   together, it is fair to somewhat 
downplay the cooperative element. We should also not discount the VLSI 
project’s excellent timing - especially   in the ultra important lithography space. It was 
the exact right thing, at the exact right time. Nevertheless, the work done in this 
way had major, lasting effects on the   Japanese - and global - microelectronics 
industry. It was downright legendary.