One of the most common attributes folks imagine 
when they think of trains is the clickety-clack   sound they make as they roll down the tracks. 
The thing is, most trains don’t make that sound   anymore. Or really, I should say, most rails 
don’t make that sound anymore. Trains are   still pretty clickety-clacky, but they’re far 
less so than they used to be. And here’s why:   those rhythmic clicks and clacks came from 
joints in the tracks.  Those joints were a solution to a transportation problem: you can only roll out a length of rail so long before   it gets difficult to move them around. It’s 
easier to have short segments of rail that   can be bolted together in place. But, they 
were also a solution to a thermal problem. You might be familiar with the idea of an 
expansion joint: a gap in a sidewalk or   handrail or bridge deck or building meant to 
give a structure room to expand or contract   from changes in temperature. I actually made a 
video on that topic a few years back. The joints   on railroads were bridged by fish plates, 
but with a gap, so on hot days, the rail   would have room to grow. But look for a joint on 
modern railway, and you might have a hard time. We’re in the middle of a deep dive series on 
railway engineering, so don’t forget to check   out the other videos after this one. A lot of new 
track these days uses continuous welded rail or   CWR that eliminates most joints. Large structures 
subjected to swings in temperature that don’t   account for thermal expansion and contraction 
can run into serious problems or even fail. So   how do modern railways get away with it? I have 
a bunch of demonstrations to show you. I’m Grady,   and this is Practical Engineering. Today 
we’re talking about continuous welded rail. As much as I enjoy a good conspiracy, the 
railroad companies don’t have access to some   kind of special steel that doesn’t expand or 
contract. Rails really do experience thermal   contraction and expansion. In the US, they would 
be installed in roughly 39-foot sections. In   general, tracks would be laid out so that on 
the hottest days, the gap between sections   would just barely close. But, this style of 
jointed rail (although it solved some of the   practical problems of railroad construction) 
had some serious drawbacks, too. First,   it was noisy! The famous clickety-clack of 
railroads was caused by each wheel passing   over each joint on the track. I’m a simple man. 
I grew up listening to that clickety clack,   or as they say in Korean, “chikchikpokpok”. 
It brings a certain nostalgia. But when you   consider how long a train is, and the fact 
that most cars have at least eight wheels,   and that train journeys can be hundreds of 
miles long, that’s a lot of clicks and clacks. The railroad companies might say too many, because 
noise is just a symptom. Each time a wheel clacks   over a joint in the rail, that impact batters 
the steel, eventually wearing it down at each   location. Try as they might, railroads could 
never make these joints quite as rigid as the   rest of the rail, meaning that (in addition to 
the extra wear) they would create additional   load on the ballast below, and the flexing 
would cause freight cars to rock side-to-side   in a phenomenon called rock and roll. All this 
creates a maintenance headache, increasing the   cost of keeping railroads in service. And it’s why 
most modern railroads use continuous welded rail:   it’s a huge reduction in the maintenance costs 
associated with the wear and tear from joints.   In CWR, rail segments are welded together using 
electric flash butt welding, arc welding, or in   some cases, THERMITE welding. These welds have 
much higher stiffness than the old joints and,   of course, are ground smooth, so they lack 
clickety clacks. But they still expand and   contract with changes in temperature like most 
materials do. Let me show you how this works. I’ve set up an aluminum rod on the 
workbench with one end clamped down   and the other free to move. I put a dial 
indicator at the end so we can observe even   tiny changes in the length of the rod. 
You can see on the thermal camera that   we’re already starting at a fairly warm 
temperature; that’s Texas for you. But,   rather than wait for the weather to get even 
warmer, I’ll speed things up with my sunny day simulator.  Notice the dial on the indicator 
climbing steadily as the heat is applied. This is an example of unrestricted thermal 
expansion. That just means nothing is keeping   the rod from growing under the increase 
in temperature. And, engineers can predict   the change in length from most materials 
with a pretty simple formula. Multiply the   difference in starting and ending temperatures by 
a coefficient of thermal expansion that’s easy to   look up in a table. This aluminum rod expands 
by about 0.002% for every degree celsius it   increases in temperature. Steel is about half 
that. Structures like bridges with expansion   joints and jointed rail are designed to allow 
unrestricted thermal expansion. When the hot day   comes, the materials expand into the gap. That’s 
usually a good thing. The structure doesn’t build   up stress and stress is what breaks things. But, 
part of the reason CWR can get away from expansion   joints is that changes in temperature aren’t the 
only way to change the dimensions of a material. I’ve set up another demo using that same 
aluminum rod. This time I put it inside   this length of pipe and put a nut and washer on 
both sides. I put the dial indicator on the end,   just like before. Now, watch what happens when I 
turn one of the nuts. Well, if you’re not careful,   the whole rod twists. But if you can keep the 
rod centered in the pipe, and the nut on the   other end from twisting, you can see the dial 
indicator registering the rod getting longer.   There’s no change in temperature here; this is a 
totally different phenomenon: elastic deformation.   Turning this nut applies a tension force to 
the rod, and it stretches out in response. Just as all materials have a mostly linear 
relationship between temperature change   and length change, all materials also have a 
similar relationship between stress and change   in length (often called strain). If you stress 
a metal too far, it will undergo a permanent   (or plastic) deformation. But within a certain 
range, the behavior is elastic. It will return   to its original length if the stress is removed. 
And just like the slope of the line for thermal   expansion is the thermal coefficient, the slope 
of the elastic part of a stress/strain curve   is called the elastic modulus. And this is 
part of the secret to continuous welded rail:   restrained thermal expansion. You can overcome one 
with the other. Let me show you a demonstration. Here you can see me using a hydraulic press in a 
way that’s not exactly how it was designed. First,   I get this iron pipe set up in the press with 
enough pressure to hold it tight between the   cylinder and table, about 3 tons. Then I heat up 
the pipe with the sunny day simulator. What do you   think will happen? Will the hydraulic press break 
as the steel expands, or something else? Well,   it wasn’t quite as dramatic as I was hoping, 
but that little movement in the gauge still   corresponds to about a quarter of a ton of 
additional force in the hydraulic cylinder.   You can kind of think of this in two separate 
steps: the steel expanded from the heat,   but then the additional force from the hydraulic 
press unexpanded it back to its original size. The   thermal and elastic deformations canceled each 
other out and the pipe stayed the same size. In   reality, the force required to counteract thermal 
expansion should have been more than that, so I   think the frame of my hydraulic press wasn’t quite 
stiff enough to hold the ends perfectly rigid. But   you still get the point: you can trade temperature 
changes for stress and keep the material from   changing in size. With a little recreational 
math, we can combine the two equations to   get a single one that gives you the stress in a 
restricted material from a change in temperature. So that’s just what railroads with CWR do: 
they connect the rail at each tie to hold   it tight and restrict its movement, allowing it 
to build up tensile or compressive stress as its   temperature changes. Of course, too much stress 
can fail a material, but steel can handle quite   a bit before it gets close to that. Railway 
here in Texas can range in temperature from   below freezing to over 100 degrees F or 40 C. 
That means every mile of steel wants to be more   than 2 feet longer on the hot days than the 
cold ones. In metric, every kilometer of rail   would expand by roughly half a meter, if it wasn’t 
restrained. Using the formula we developed here,   we can see that fully restraining the rail 
across that temperature range results in a   stress of about 15,000 psi or 100 megapascals, way 
below the tensile or compressive strength of any   modern steel, especially the fancy alloys they 
use these days. But it’s not quite that simple,   particularly for compression. Just because a 
material has a high compressive strength (and   steel does), that doesn’t mean it won’t fail under 
compressive loading. Let me show you another demo. We’re back to the aluminum rod, but this time 
I clamped both ends to create a restricted   condition. Now watch what happens when I apply the 
blowtorch. Our equation says the rod should build   up stress so that the elastic strain is equal 
to the thermal expansion. But that’s not what   happens. Instead, the rod just deflects sideways, 
an effect known as buckling. Even though aluminum   is relatively strong under compression, the long 
skinny shape of the rod (just like the rails on   tracks) is particularly prone to buckling. 
Obviously, if a rail buckles on a hot day,   it’s a pretty serious problem. The material 
itself doesn’t fail, but the track does fail   at being a railway since trains need rails 
to be precisely spaced without crazy curves.   Many train derailments have happened because a 
continuous welded rail got too hot and buckled,   an effect colloquially known as sun kink. 
So railroad owners have to be really careful   about compressive stress in a rail, and in the US, 
safety regulations require them to follow detailed   procedures for installing, adjusting, inspecting, 
and maintaining continuous welded rail. One of   the tricks they use to manage buckling is adding 
restraint. I’ve got one more formula and one more   demo for you. The formula for the critical force 
required to buckle a structural member like this   is pretty simple. Notice that the force goes 
up in inverse relation to the length of the   structural member squared. This is much clearer in 
a demonstration. I have a length of welding wire,   and I can apply a force with my finger that 
is measured by the scale. You can see it takes   about 375 grams to buckle the rod. But watch 
what happens when I restrain the rod at the   centerpoint, effectively halving its length. 
I can still buckle it, but it takes a lot more   force from my finger. It happens right around 
1500 grams, exactly what is predicted by the   formula. Halve the length, quadruple the critical 
force for buckling. The spacing of railroad ties   is really important because it affects whether or 
not a rail will buckle under thermal stress. And   one of the most important jobs of all that 
crushed rock, called ballast, is to hold   the ties in place and keep them from sliding 
horizontally and allowing the rail to buckle. The other way railroads use to manage buckling is, 
I think, the most clever: just keeping rails from   undergoing compression at all. Any continuous 
welded rail has a neutral temperature which is   essentially the temperature it was the day 
it was installed. It’s the temperature at   which the rail experiences no stress at all. 
If it’s colder than the neutral temperature,   the rail experiences tensile stress, and if 
it’s hotter than the neutral temperature,   the rail experiences compressive stress. The 
secret is that railroads use a really high   neutral temperature to ensure the rail 
almost never undergoes compression.   The Central Florida Rail Corridor has a neutral 
temperature of 105 F or just over 40 C. They   only install rail on hot days, and if they 
can’t do that, they use heaters to bring the   temperature up. And if they can’t do that, they 
use massive hydraulic jacks to induce enormous   tensile forces in the rails before they’re welded 
together. On cold days when stresses are highest,   they have to go out and inspect the rails 
to make sure they haven’t pulled apart,   but a small break in a rail is nothing compared 
to a buckled track when it comes to the risk of   derailment, so it just makes sense to use as high 
a neutral temperature as you can get away with. Of course, you always get to the end of 
a continuously welded section at a bridge   or older length of jointed rail. To keep 
the CWR from buckling at these locations,   you need something more than a small gap. 
Instead, expansion joints on rails (sometimes   called breathers) use diagonal tapers. 
This oblique joint allows train wheels   to transition smoothly from one section of rail 
to another while still leaving enough room for   thermal movement. And joints are also needed to 
break up the electrical circuits used for grade   crossings and signals. So railroads often use 
stiff plates surrounded by insulation material   to electrically isolate two sections of rail 
while keeping it stable in the field. We’ll   cover track circuits in a future video 
of this series on railway engineering. Even with its challenges, continuous 
welded rail extends the life of rails   and wheels and makes for a much smoother 
and quieter ride. Even if you’re nostalgic   for the soothing clickety-clack 
of jointed rail, it’s comforting   to know that railways are continuously 
innovating with continuous welded rail. This video had quite a bit of math to explain 
what goes into designing railways for thermal   effects. I do my best to stay out of the weeds 
when it comes to formulas and equations, but I   do like to give you a peek behind the curtain 
and show what engineers actually do sometimes.   I don’t want anyone to feel intimidated, but 
the truth is that even simple math and algebra   form the basis of engineering, and if you want to 
understand the topics that I cover more deeply,   knowing a bit of math will take you a long 
way. Today’s sponsor Brilliant.org makes   that not only really easy, but also free, with 
fun and interactive lessons from the basics to   really advanced topics. Brilliant has been 
sponsoring Practical Engineering videos for   six years now. It’s the longest partnership I 
have. And I think the biggest reason for that   is people watching this channel just keep finding 
value in learning new things in this interactive   way. That and they keep adding new lessons every 
month. Brilliant looks a lot different now than   it did back when they first started sponsoring 
the channel, and by that I mean a lot better. I   keep finding new topics to brush up on, like 
this series on creative coding that uses a   built in interpreter to show you how to connect 
visual elements with code. We learn best not by   reading or hearing but by doing, and that’s why 
I love Brilliant. The lessons just stick better   when you’re actually using the information 
while you learn. You can try this completely   free for 30 days and see if it’s something 
that can help you get ahead in your career,   get better at a hobby, or just enjoy the 
process of learning something new. Go to   brilliant.org/PracticalEngineering or click 
on the link in the description below. I really   like this product and I think you will too. Thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think.