♪ Spider Pig, Spider Pig ♪ ♪ Does whatever Spider Pig does ♪ - Do you hear that? That's the sound of a
brand new mystery tech! (cheers) Okay. (laughs) This is Kraft Macaroni And Cheese. - [Matt] Deluxe. - It says, "Old com." (rolls) - [Matt] Corn. - Old corn in a ... Why is
there an Echo on my desk? Okay, an Amazon box. A glass plate? Is this a microwave? Okay, so if you guys are
not familiar with this, Ken actually did an entire
video on the main channel a few months ago where he
went out to the Amazon event, and took a look at this,
the Alexa powered microwave. Whew. Wait, hang on, I don't understand. Do we need the Echo Dot and the microwave? I thought the microwave
had Alexa built in. - [Ken] No, you need both. - Oh... Okay. So to set this up, I need
to press and hold two on the microwave keypad for four seconds. (microwave beeps) Succ! Succ! (laughs) Off to a great start. Hey (bleep), microwave for ten seconds. (microwave beeps) Ooh. - [Alexa] Ten seconds, power ten. - Okay. What can you do with this, though? For real it'll turn on
and off the microwave, but isn't that always easier to just, reach over and do yourself? I still have to go put the stuff in the microwave, right? - [Ken] So, put the mac and cheese in. - [Matt] What, oh, you can't just put the mac and cheese in. - Yeah you gotta like, put the water in. - [Ken] You know what I mean. (laughs) Cook macaroni and cheese in the microwave. - [Alexa] For how long? - Two minutes? (microwave beeps) - [Alexa] Two minutes, power ten. - Okay. You know what? It's kinda useless, not really
practical, but it's cool. Oh, dude. This could go horribly wrong! If you live with someone who's a (bleep), they're gonna make
everything burn forever. (laughs) (bleep) - [Ken] Add 30 minutes to the microwave. - No. (microwave beeps) No! - [Alexa] 30 minutes added. - Woo, yeah, there we go. That's a little aggressive
but that's okay. Okay, it's a little too
watery, I will admit. (slurps) (laughs) - [Matt] How do you
mess up making Easy Mac? - Oh, look. Something for me to do a video on as I eat my mac and cheese. The Tivoo Smart Pixel
Art Bluetooth Speaker. (thuds) Is there a reason why you just put the Red Hydrogen down on the desk? I mean, you know what, I will say this does look kind of cool. I mean, it's straight-up
like a retro 50s TV. ♪ How much money you got ♪ ♪ How much money you got ♪ ♪ How much ♪ - Hey guys, this is Austin. This little box doesn't look like much, but inside is one of strangest toys- - There we go, that's the move. You know what? It's not the most practical
thing in the world, but it does sound pretty
decent as a Bluetooth speaker. Importantly, the build quality and the look is totally on point. It looks really nice, and I mean the pixel stuff is interesting. If it was me, I'd probably just set it to one thing and forget about it. But, yeah, not bad. (chews) Hey, can you just let
me eat my mac and cheese for like, one second please? - [Matt] My mac and cheese. - Thank you, your mac and cheese. "The Carbo Tenor Composite
Dynamic Headphones." Last time Ken brought some
headphones out for mystery tech he had the excellent Final E4000 which are still in my bag to this day. Now, are these actually as good or what's the deal with these? - [Ken] They are 40 dollars and they're supposed to be fantastic. - 40 dollars? Alright, I'm guessing
you got these in Japan? - [Ken] No. - Really. - [Ken] Amazon. - Oh, okay. This is all in Japanese. Alright, let's see what you got. Well, first of all, there's a surprising amount of isolation. Like, that's not bad without anything going on. You know what I also like? This is kinda like lowkey sort of thing. These fit really well in my ears. Partially because they're smaller earbuds, but those are really solid. Something I have a lot of problems with, especially when I'm dealing with earbuds is when I'm trying to eat
while listening to music they always work their way out. This is such a nice solid seal. Wow, that is super
weird, I totally thought that was the speaker on the phone. What, hold on. Are you hearing this? What? - [Matt] I don't hear that at all. - It legit sounds like I'm
listening to the phone speaker. Oh, wait a minute, hang on. What's the Red doing? Red's doing something. - [Ken] Oh, right. - Audio 3D, that's what it is. I'm like, this audio
sounds so bizarre and weird 'cause the Hydrogen is
turning it into 3D audio. Hang on, let's do it normally. Yeah! Ken, you're two for two on this one. These headphones are dope. 40 dollars? 40 dollars on US Amazon? - [Ken] Yes. - Easy. - [Ken] So you're holding
the Red Hydrogen there? - Yes, I mean you gave it to me. - [Ken] Yeah, what do you think about it? - Oh, let's not go there. - [Ken] Why? - Because, this is actually originally in a mystery tech months ago,
but I was very disappointed and we cut that part out of the video. - [Ken] Did you ever use the camera? - A little bit yeah, it was not very good. Why are you asking me so many questions? Is someone who works
for Red about to pop out and arrest me or something? - [Ken] We might have
found a way to improve it. - Okay, by using a real Red camera? (thud) Sony, is this a smartwatch? The DSC-QX10? What is this? Oh, this thing! Wow, I totally forgot about this. This is like RX100 in a lens shape that you attach to the
back of the camera, right? How much was this? You said you got it used, this came out a few years ago. - [Ken] We found it for 200 bucks. (grunts) - This is not gonna fit, is it? This is like 3/4 the size of Red Hydrogen this is not gonna fit. (scoffs) No. - [Matt] Crazy idea, if that comes off get some double sided tape. - No, no. - [Ken] Yeah, yeah. - Terrible idea. - So what to do is. - Right in the middle, man, just don't cover up the
lens, 'cause we need to actually take photos with the lens. Okay. Interchangeable lenses on your Red, now reality thanks to Mr. Bolido. Okay, let's see what 10x
optical zoom looks like. (laughs) This is hot garbage,
man, this is not good. This is really dumb, don't do this ever. (thumps) Nike, okay. What's from Nike. (rustle) What? Is this a Playstation backpack? Okay, alright, you're definitely gonna steal this though, aren't you? 175 dollars I see, is that what
you actually paid for this? - [Ken] Yes. - Oh, wow, actually got it at retail. - [Ken] Never buy over retail. - You know what, don't buy over retail. Good job, Ken, good job. Who's signature is that? Should I know who that is? Paul George. Paul George and Playstation? - [Ken] They're also the Nike sneakers. - Oh, the sneakers that
Kev did a video on? - [Matt] Building the
ultimate Playstation 1. - Inside the backpack? Oh!