- Hey Jared, what does Wish rhyme with? Wish I had saved my
money on "Wishtery Tech!" - [Jared] Did you just
rhyme my wish with wish? - I answered my own joke. So, immediately, I'm
seeing some sus things. A smart card reader. Is this just what you
buy to skim credit cards? What the hell, $148 for a full laser show. I will get in trouble with this. Does anyone want a Bluetoote? (people laughing)
Let's get that. - [Jared] A Bluetoote! - PS5, PS4, PS3, Switch controller. You had me at Bluetoote. Three-in-one USB earpick
mini-camera endoscope. Blah! You know what I don't wanna see? The inside of my ears. - [Jared] Well, you don't have to put it in your body either. We can just use this for- - Stop, nope, please stop.
- What? - Don't, don't, nope. - [Jared] Like finding
screws that we lost in a PC? - What kind of metaphor are
you talking about right now? - [Jared] This isn't a
metaphor, I'm just saying, there's more than-
- Finding screws, Jared? - [Jared] What, no! - [Austin] Portable neck fan, $12 for a fan that goes around your neck. - [Jared] I mean, think about those nights when you're gaming, you know? - Okay, what? A gaming night.
- Now that you've started to- Hang on, I'm a little nervous. - Sure, please, tell me
more about your late night gaming sessions, where your
neck's getting a little sweaty. - [Jared] No, no, no, you know, it's just. I'm a gamer dad, like a
normal dad, only much cooler. - That might be the lamest
shirt I've ever seen in my life. (people laughing) Okay, this is actually something that looks totally legitimate. $306 for an Xbox Series S "Fortnite" and "Rocket League" bundle. Surely we can't get scammed
by buying an Xbox on Wish. (gasps) Oh! This is nefarious!
(record scratch) This is a power bank that has a little mini camera inside of it. So, there was a video
we did a few years ago, where we bought a bunch of hidden cameras. We filled up Matt's apartment, and I tried to see if I could find them. And fun fact, I hardly found any of them, and I knew there were cameras,
and I was actively looking. - [Jared] I can't think
of any like legal reason- - [Austin] There's no legitimate, no. - [Jared] That you would need this. - No, no, no. It's creep town 9,000 and I will pass. I found the world's
smallest magic eight ball. I don't think there's anything I can do besides add that to cart,
that seems totally worth it. A mini electric iron, it's so cute. Are you trying to say
that my shirt's wrinkly? - [Jared] No, no, no, you look great. - These are candles
shaped like strawberries. - Tech!
- Tech! (people laughing) - You know, the cool kids these
days use those probe lenses that cost thousands of dollars,
and get you beautiful shots. Well, today on "Wishtery Tech," we've got the next best thing. A two-megapixel digital
microscope for seven dollars. Marques, sorry, but we're
replacing you, my friend. (upbeat funky music) Is this the Uber special? It's just a like organizer
for the back of the car that has like your phone, your tablet, and drinks, and stuff. - [Jared] Dude, that's like the best road tripping accessory ever. - Yeah, but that assumes that
I want people in my backseat. - [Jared] Well, what is, what? You got a four-door car, you
gotta use all four doors. - Yeah, for people I like.
(somber downbeat music) - Do you like me? (door beeps) (alarm blares) (Jared sniffles) My mom said she couldn't pick me up. - I wish that I had chosen better items, but it is now a month and a half later. My "Wishtery Tech" is
here and ready to go. (box thumps) That's a very big, heavy box. Inside box number one is, oh, the Xbox. That was anti climactic. Did we not get scammed?
(dramatic orchestral music) - [Jared] No, we didn't! - I didn't think I just said the words without appreciating the
gravity of the situation. - It's still-
- It could be rocks, right, yeah, yeah, no, no, no. Let's calm down, let's
not get too excited. (box rattling) - Significantly more moving-
- Yeah, yeah. - [Speaker] Than a normal Xbox box. - [Jared] Better be legit,
you paid $306 for it. - Now you're making me nervous. All I know is this seems
to be an authentic item. Surely there's a real Xbox
in here, and not a rock. I mean, I will say, this is
looking a little beat up, but authentic. If this is a fake, I
would be very surprised. - [Ken] No, I don't
think we're doubting that it's a real box. - [Matt] We're doubting
that there's real stuff inside. - [Ken] I wouldn't be
surprised if someone resealed it. - There's so much suspense right now. Edit team, cut the dramatic music, okay? This is an authentic
legitimate Xbox Series S that I got on Wish.com for
a very reasonable price. And here's the proof. Power your dreams, (no audio)! - (laughs) That's aggresive.
- Power your- It's sealed! I'm telling you, man.
- Okay, okay, okay. - Look at this beautiful,
pristine, just the ways. Almost beautiful, not pristine- - No, hold on-
- Like I said, at best, this is a used console. - It's slightly scuffed, it's still new. It's fine! And HDMI.
- Wow. Wait, no, this was repackaged. - It's not repackaged, stop it! - You know, this is a return. - Yep.
- It's not a return! - [Matt] This
is definitely a return. - Stop lying to me. You're stressing me out, okay? - But there's a dent on it! - Oh, wait, Matt. - It came off! - It came off. - There's nothing to see
here, friends, the Xbox- - [Matt] We can do a drop test for it. - Series S. - Wow! - Authentic, verified,
legitimate, Wish.com. Victorious, we move on to the next item. Filled with hubris,
confidence, Jared, please. - [Jared] Time to put you in your place. (bag rustles) - [Ken] Is it a muzzle? - Aw man, I forgot I ordered this. This is Austin regretting his decisions. Those look like electrical things! - [Matt] Take it off, boy! This is flashbacks
to that This Is episode. Do I get to
slap that on you again? - Matt, what if you take
your shirt off, actually? That seems like a better idea. - (laughs) Absolutely not. Take it off, boy. - Where am I gonna put the mic though? - I think you just clipped
it onto your chest hair. - [Ken] What chest
hair are you thinking? (Austin laughs) - He had a couple. - I feel judged right now. (tape clunks) - [Ken] Oh, I appreciate
you got the white one. We definitely won't see it now. (crew laughing) - You know, sometimes people
ask me, do I like my job? - [Ken] is one of those
days where you could say yes. - The things I do for videos. - So, we got three here.
- Oh my God. - [Matt] So, we can do. - Matt, can you just get it over with? Ugh, no, no, no, it's not centered! Oh, you're gonna get my bellybutton, Matt! Oh. - It's not sticking! - Oh. - All right, we're
gonna do this one first. We'll start at one. - Okay. There we go, okay, so,
look at my arm right now. I am doing nothing. That is literally the electric signals. I'm not doing that. - Hmm. - Ah, ah!
(crew laughing) - It started on two on its own. I didn't do that one. - I am not moving either hand right now. - [Ken] It's just
a natural pulse, right? Because of the electricity.
- Yeah. - I am completely not doing anything. - [Matt] And that's only at a two. - It's not even fully
on, it's like coming off. - [Ken] Your Apple Watch must be having a seizure right now. - Do you see this, look.
(crew laughing) Ah, hah, that hurts! Holy (no audio), that hurts! (Austin bellows and laughs) - [Ken] Take it off,
take it off, take it off, take it off, take it off. - No, I need four, give me four, dammit! - [Ken] No, ah, no! - Look, look- (Austin bellows) We have the segment, we're good now. (crew laughing) - It's very hard to turn off
when his arm is just flailing. I still say you could've clipped. - [Joanna] Austin, we
forgot to hit record anyway, we're done with this.
(Matt laughing) - You know what? This has been a roller
coaster of an episode, and I need a pick me up. I need something to really
revitalize my spirit. Oh, this is a fake Apple Watch, oh. If you look at it, it looks
like a regular Apple Watch. It's got a little like plastic on it, you flip it over, it's
got all your sensors. Take a look at the crown. Do you see how much this crown wiggles? Listen to this. (crown clicking) That's the sound of the crown. - [Matt] That's oddly poetic. - [Austin] How much was
this fake Apple Watch? - So, this was six bucks.
(cash register chimes) - That's like one fifth of a
band for a real Apple Watch. - Let's say in a hypothetical world, this thing right here doesn't work. - Yeah, yep.
- Yeet! - You just want the band? - I mean. - Six dollars, no, but
there's also a watch here, six bucks. (crew laughing) - Look at all the features
that they give you. Message, heart rate. You can put your SIM card in this. - 81 BPM, and like, it also gave me like my blood pressure, and my pulse ox. There's no way. Yeah, my, it's actually 66. This is complete nonsense, this is not a real heart
rate sensor at all. Oh, for the record,
this screen is terrible. It actually looks a lot better
on camera than it really is. This video is sponsored by ZipRecruiter. As Overclock has grown, we've learned just how hard it can be to find the best talent
to help expand the team. With ZipRecruiter, you can take away a lot of the stress of finding
the perfect applicant. It's simple, ZipRecruiter
is the smartest way to hire. With their powerful AI technology, the top candidates are
matched with your position. After that, you simply pick which ones you think suit your business best. In addition, there's
a whole suite of tools and filters to help you
review and rate each one of your candidates before
inviting them to apply. And I'll be honest, I wouldn't be able to run
this channel without my team. So, making sure that I hire the best is my number one priority. Luckily, ZipRecruiter works so well that four out of five employers will have a quality candidate within their first day. Saving me time and effort,
so I can keep making videos. There's a reason ZipRecruiter is rated the number one hiring site. It is just so easy to use. In fact, the hardest
thing you may have to do is remember my special URL. Ziprecruiter.com/austinevans. That's where you can go to
try ZipRecruiter for free. Once again, that's
ziprecruiter.com/austinevans. Thank you very much to ZipRecruiter for sponsoring this video. (hands tapping) This is veinless hanging neck fan from a cool summer. Summer wind. (laughs) That's what they call me. Oh my God, wait a minute! Jared, how much is this? - [Jared] $17 and 10 cents - Worth it, USB-C. - Really?
- Really? Oh my God. - I wish I had bought more. 'Cause it's getting a little hot in here, and it's kind of rude that you
didn't buy one for everyone. (fan clicking) - [Ken] That sounds
like my bones at six AM. - Oh, wait, it actually like- - Oh, okay.
- Will stay. - [Matt] Okay. Do you feel cool? You don't look it, but like- - I'm not gonna lie, it's a nice little breeze
directly on my face. This actually works. - [Matt] I'll say it's loud. - Ah.
(fan humming) it's also a white noise generator. Sometimes on "Wishtery Tech-" - [Ken] Where are
you putting that bro? (crew laughing)
- Oh no, stop. - Sometimes on "Wishtery Tech-" - Somehow, that's not better.
- Things just work out. Okay, inside here we have. - [Ken] Is that a light? - This go up your butt? (laughs) - [Ken] Why did your brain go to that? - Oh, it's an ear cleaning device. Well, it looks like it's a-
- Oh, that's even worse. - You get a USB-C to A,
and a micro B to A adapter for a dollar 74, and a light
you can stick up an orifice. It's great. Ah, we got the light! - [Ken] (gasps) Yo! - All right, we now have a live video feed from this dollar 70 camera. (Ken laughs) - Hi! This is how I'm gonna
shoot my vlogs from now on. Coming at you from Disneyland. - It's like some horrible
found footage movie. Oh, you're going straight in. Oh!
(Ken laughs) Ken, clean your ears! Oh! - Well, it's very hot. What about the Apple Watch? - [Austin] Yo, this actually
works as a macro lens. - No, no, no, no, no-
- Oh no. - Hi friends.
- Guys. (crew laughing)
- Welcome to an avant garde shot. - Avant garde. (laughs) A journey to center of Austin's nose. Oh, oh!
- Oh! - Oh, Jesus! This is really (no audio) gross, but for a dollar 75, we already bought ourselves $10 worth of enjoyment. Wait, ah!
- Oh no! - POV, you are the Chipotle
from two hours ago. (everyone laughing) This is the grossest episode
of "Wishtery Tech" ever, Jesus Christ. - [Austin] This is so good though! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no! (Austin laughing) We're gonna stop it right there. - [Austin] I have never been this happy with an episode of "Wishtery Tech." - [Jared] Now that we know
your ears are all clean. - Well, I was cleaning
something else, but. - [Jared] But. - Original high quality best accessories. I'll be the judge of that. It's the Wish mating call.
(headphones clicking) - That-
- Little baby Wish products are born - [Matt] There's a lot of
things we could say right now, but-
(horn honks) (crew laughing) - Joanna! - [Joanna] I'm just doing what I'm told! - They've got like these little, like, extra drivers on the outside. I mean, they feel cheap,
but they also have like an inline mic, it seems like. How much are these very,
very cheap headphones? - [Jared] These were
a dollar and 30 cents. - What is going on? Is Wish okay? I don't think I've ever
had this many good items. - [Matt] You haven't tested it yet. - This could be worth a dollar. - [Matt] It could be,
but you should test it. - [Ken] Is it the
drivers moving around? - Yes. - [Matt] It's called
active noise cancellation. - I mean, these fit horribly in my ears. Oh, wow, you know what? Yeah, the drivers are moving. When I talk, I almost hear the headphones vibrate a little bit. Top five worst headphones I've ever heard. (box clicks) - [Ken] Whoa, that's heavy. - You almost assaulted
this Asus Zephyrus G14. This is the Jelly Comb
laptop tablet holder. - [Ken] Oh, this, some
assembly required, it looks like. - [Matt] No, this is gonna
fold out like a Transformer, but it's gonna creak like hell. - [Ken] Oh, that's kinda neat. - And so, the Zephyrus goes on here. I'll put Z Flip on one side, Z Flip! - Yo, this is the streamer
setup right here, guys. So, you get OBS on your computer. - Sure, sure, sure. - Right, right, right. Let's take off this garbage. Let's remove this. - Garbage, he says. - And bam!
- Wow! - You get your V-Tuber on the side, you have your chat on that side. Oh my God, it's perfect. - Hey Ken, I'm not sure
if you're familiar, multiple monitors exists. - What? More than one? - Yeah. - No, no, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no, no. - [Austin] How much was this? - This was $12.15.
(cash register chimes) - Oh my God. - And that' pretty good.
- A steal. - This is $12 for the quality, the plastic is actually fairly durable. But the main thing I don't like is there are the phone mounts. They don't come out far enough,
and your laptop covers them. Like, that's the part it's not- - Beggars can't be choosers,
Austin, look at this. Look how small this goes! That is tiny. - Wish, you're doing okay today. (package rustles) I got it. (package rattles) - [Matt] Lincoln Logs! - Digital microscope?
- Wait. - Is this for non-orifices? I think. (Austin and crew laugh) Okay, so, we ordered a bunch of stuff, including these, which I'm gonna
take a look at in a second. And this microscope was one of the things that I was excited for here. Look, here's my magnifier, all right? Ready? Ohp. Ohp! Magnified. Also, look at this! They come with C and micro
USB adapters in this too. Metal adapters.
(adapters clicking) - [Ken] Wait, so how much was this? - [Jared] So, this was
six, I'm sorry, $14. - I'm gonna zoom in on
the table, you know? - [Ken] Tell me when
you see the termites. - Oh, oh, oh, oh, there we go. Look at the detail on the wood. All right, here, lemme pull a Z Flip, lemme pull a Z Flip out. - [Ken] Well, I got a
better one for you, hold on. - Oh, that is a good one. - Tell me if this is a PSA 10. - PSA 10 "Pokemon" card coming right up. So, I'm gonna zoom in. - [Ken] Oh wow. - Wow! So that's what it takes to make yellow. I wish I could keep it stil, but unfortunately, this
tripod is really bad. There we go, there we go. - [Ken] Oh, look at that. Oh yeah, look at that. - [Austin] That is neat! - [Jared] Is this a textured card? - No.
- This is not a textured card, no, this is just a regular card. - [Ken] That's just how the printing is. - Let's look at what the
Z Flip screen looks like. I bet this is actually
gonna be pretty cool. Look at that, wow!
- Oh! - So, you can see the individual OLED, so you can see the matrix here where you see the red, and the green, and as I swipe around- - [Ken] You could see
in the OLED too, like, how certain pixels will just go dimmer. - [Austin] That looks rad! - [Ken] That's the percentage, right? And a little bit of dirt
- Dude, how much was this again? - [Jared] This is $14. - This is actually like a
high quality microscope, considering what it is. Actually very impressive. I am so happy with this
episode, it's so cool! So these, I remember these. These are some of the
world's smallest items. This is the world's smallest eight ball. - That's a lot of excess packaging for the world's smallest thing. - Someone ask the magic
eight ball a question. - [Jared] Will I get a raise this year? - (laughs) The answer's no. Anyone else have a question?
(crew laughing) - Will Jared get a raise this year? (light playful music) (Ken and crew laughing) - While you eight ball it, I would like to take a look
to see what we've got here, which is the world's smallest ShopVac. So, we all make messes sometimes. And we all get into trouble in ways that we probably shouldn't. And so, with the world's smallest ShopVac, you can vacuum up your Cheeto dust. - Or Grandma Agnes. - If you guys, you can
see, if I open up the top, it actually has like a
filter and everything. Like, this is an actual, real vacuum. - It has a filter? - Yeah, right there. (ShopVac hums) - [Ken] That's like a micro tremor. Is that pulling on your face? Really? And you're doing something. - I mean, it's a very
light amount of suck. - [Ken] Stuart Little
can clean his apartment. - [Matt] Do you know if
Stuart Little's actually a human? - Are you insinuating that I
make a mess on purpose, Jared? - Well, you're supposed to-
- You crush it, crush it in the bag, oh my. - [Austin] Those chunks are still larger than the actual vacuum. - [Ken] You're supposed to
cut it with the razor blade before you do the line. But how much did the vacuum actually grab? - I don't know, let's find out. I don't think a lot. Nothing. - [Ken] We get it, you game. (Austin laughs)