- It is time my friends to return to AliExpress to find what wonders await. Boy, that sounds like an ad. AliExpress, 'what wonders await'. Oh, I immediately see something. It's a Transformer's robot toy for $8. So in a recent episode of Mystery Tech, we took a look at the Robosen, which is much more expensive,
but actually really legit. How about we want Optimus
Prime for 10 bucks? I want that. Do you have bad posture? Are you slouching right now, as you're watching this video? Well have I got the item for you. The smart corrector belt sensor that will automatically tell you and vibrate you if you've got bad posture. Intel Arc A310/A580 NVIDIA GPU. Wait A310 and A580? Wasn't this something that
Intel was going to release? Is this like a prototype board? Is this something that escaped
an Intel lab somewhere? Just to quickly interrupt,
current Austin here. When I was recording this ordering scene a couple of months ago, this
GPU had not been announced. However, it actually just
got officially unveiled a couple of days ago,
meaning that AliExpress had an unreleased graphics card on sale, like two months early. (elevator music) I'm looking through Z Flip stuff. Here's a $600 portable dental unit, with ultra scaler and
LED like curing unit. Dude, this shipping on this is $300. Oh my god. This is a portable PlayStation 2. It might look like a PSP, but this is a quote, "Real
PS2 handheld game console" "using a modified PS2 motherboard." Last time, we took a look
at a portable GameCube, which while very homemade looking, was incredibly impressive. And this is essentially
the same kind of concept. I mean this is really what
AliExpress is great for. It's finding the stuff
that you quite literally can't find anywhere else. Raspberry Pi video capture
card via USB for Game Boy. A Game Boy interceptor. So are you trying to tell me that you plug your Game Boy game into this and then it gives you a USB capture? That's cool. I've heard of these in the past. I've never actually used one. Oh, this is actually kind of neat. It's really expensive, but it is a 3.8 inch 1080p display. Oh, oh, wait, wait, wait, I get it. So you plug it in and you've got yourself a little baby monitor. Which again, it's a full like-- Well it's technically 1200 by 1080, but I mean it's a very,
very sharp display. That, my friends, is everything
we need from AliExpress. I'll see you in one to two months, when everything actually shows up. This video is sponsored by Eight Sleep. We spend a third of our lives sleeping. So I think it's important
to invest in the quality of that sleep, and that is
exactly what this is all about. So this is the Pod Cover by Eight Sleep. And it's essentially water
cooling for your bed. So it works just like a fitted sheet. So you put it over your existing mattress, and then you've got some
tubes that go to a pump with a very stylish fan inside and that will either heat
or cool your mattress. To make sure that I can
enjoy my best night of sleep, not only can I manually
adjust both sides of the bed, so say if I want it to be cooler, my partner wants it to be warmer, that's fine, but on top of that, it can actually automatically
adjust the temperature of the bed based on your level of sleep. So it'll detect if you're
going to be going into lighter or deeper sleep and try
to keep the bed at just the right temperature to your preference, to make sure that you're having the highest quality of sleep possible. This is really, really cool stuff. Take it from a guy who
does not get enough sleep. It is worth the investment to make every minute count to be as
restful as possible. (yawns) You can check out your own Sleep Pod by Eight Sleep at the
link in the description. Thank you very much to Eight Sleep for sponsoring this video
and sponsoring my dreams. Actually, I'm not gonna have any dreams. I'm just gonna sleep solid. I don't need dreams
when I'm really sleepy. Let's see what AliExpress has delivered. Starting with, now would
be a good time to mention, that we ordered this stuff a while ago and I subsequently forgot
why I purchased this one. What is this hat? Who is this-- Is this made for babies? This is a large? Ah, that explains a lot in my life. Ah, it's too small. There's no adjustment with this either. It's leather, but cheapy. Silly rabbits, Trix are for kids. Okay, well now that we've
properly set the stage, let's see what else we got. Voila, it's me. - [Joanna] Aw, look at that. - Still haven't seen the movie. So I don't get the reference. But everyone told me it's really funny. - [Alex] All you
need to know is you look exactly like Ryan Gosling right now. - Aw, thanks. - [Joanna] Wow. Uncanny. - Okay, so this is the JS 26. Inside we have, wait, oh, it's the controller. That's so extra for a controller. So I'll put the phone here and then I guess, does this pull out? It does. Okay. So it vaguely keeps the phone in place. Okay, so that's a start. Oh dude, wait, wait, wait! This is like an N64. What the hell's wrong with them? No, we agree on this in 1997. Two, not three! Oh good Lord. Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait, the controller like, rotates. What the hell? And then something's blinking. What is this controller? This is so janky. If I press the trigger,
it does click the screen. So it does open and then
I'll put something over here. I'll open up, I dunno, the camera. So I'm gonna press the right trigger and it's gonna open the camera. Oh wait, it did it automatically. What? Nah man. How much did I pay for this? - [Alex] You paid $30. - Maybe I'm missing something here. I probably am. If you want a cooling
device for your phone, I get the fact that there
actually can be real benefits to having a fan that clips on the back. I get that. But I don't know why the
handles move like this. I also don't fully
understand who wants to deal with plugging these things in. I get it, having those triggers is nice, and they kind of work,
but they're so fiddly. It might work better if
you have a thicker phone. The Z Flip is quite thin,
so it doesn't wanna stay on. Every time I get it on,
it just kind of falls off. Man, it is not 'Kenough' for me. Next up, we have a box with an
HDMI cable taped to the top. Oh! Okay. So this is a little mini display, that's meant to look like a Mac. In fact it's even got the
little rainbow Apple logo on it. Wow, that's actually
bigger than I thought. There's a little bit of a
gap here, which is not great. So it doesn't fully go
together, right here. But this is pretty nice. So it does have a couple
of ports on the back. So we've got mini HDMI, USB-C, and well it looks like aux, but I wonder if that's
for the power adapter. Or does it actually run on USB-C? Oh, there's no power adapter. Oh, okay. So I guess, wait, did they not take the screen protector off when they 3D printed the shell? Because you can look-- Typically with these displays, you'll see that there's
a screen protector on it, it's all scuffed, which looks
exactly like it's plastic. Okay, while I plug this in, could you just remind me on
how much I paid for this? - [Alex] You paid
$112 for this 3.8 inch 1080p external monitor. (chuckles) - (groans) Let's try with my
incredibly long USB-C cable, to see if this actually will work. Oh, well yeah, it
immediately lights up green. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on, hold on. Is it pulling power off the HDMI? Hold on. Watch, watch this, watch this. What? Does HDMI push just
enough power to turn LED? The computer does not see... Oh my god, the computer
does see a second display! Wait, it's flickering on and off. Do you see? So the monitor shows up, and then turns off. And then shows up and then turns off. So the monitor's flickering and it's only plugged in via HDMI. So there's no power going to this. There's literally just an HDMI cable. It's enough for macOS to briefly see it and to fire up this light. What is going on? Hey! So it doesn't work with a Mac. It just works with
Windows, because of course, why would a Mac display work with Mac? So this is a 1200 by
1080 90 hertz display. It is insanely sharp. I can look as close as I want. I cannot see pixels.
It is incredibly small. - [Alex] What is
this, a monitor for ants? - It's so small! Okay. Okay. If you recall, I found an unreleased Intel ARC graphics card on AliExpress, which is very strange, but AliExpress is the kind of place where you can find some
really weird and wacky tech. I'm not sure why I have to close my eyes. I'm not sure if I'm "Kenough" for this. - [Alex] All right,
you can open your eyes. - I don't see the thing. - [Alex] All right, look behind you. - Oh no! It's so much worse. Why is it printed so big? Let me guess. It just didn't show up. - [Alex] It did not show up, but AliExpress was kind enough to refund us the full amount, so... - Okay, that makes me
feel slightly better. Okay, well let's keep going, shall we? What else do we got? I would just, at this point, settle for something that functions. Aw, what did past Austin do? Skincare options. You know what? There's a lot of skincare options. This is one of... - [Joanna] Them. - [Boy In Video] Juan piece! - Jesus, is this a shower head? Wait, well why does it
say infrared and sonic? What did I buy? - [Alex] This is the three-in-one ultrasonic capacitive machine weight loss micro-current
EMS, body slimming-- - Wait, wait. - [Alex] Fat burn. Yes. - Weight loss? - [Alex] It theoretically
it will burn some fat. - Well, as we all know, I've
got a lot of fat to burn, so... No! It's zapping too. No! No! Why is it zapped? Starting from the center of buttocks, massage your buttocks in a
circling motion towards the back. Do you wanna help massage my buttocks? - What? - Right below the stomach
applied clockwise movement. Oh, good Lord. So basically what it's
telling you to do is, then you do this. - Belly rub. - Infrared is just... - Oh, oh, I I feel it now. - It's hot, right? - Put your hand on it. - Oh. - It's like vibrating but it
is like, it's like ultrasonic. It's not like an actual
like major vibration. Okay, so I gotta do, I gotta do the thing. So I'm just gonna - Okay. - [Ken] Is it a boy? - Oh, it's getting, oh, oh! It's getting warm. - Instructions for
slimming your body line. We start with EMS. - No we don't. That's electric. You know, let's just
put on the zappy things. Is that a connection? Just do it. Ow! (swears) Ow! Ow! - (chuckles) - Woo! Does it tell you at what
point I can feel my arm again? Because I'd love to
know when that happens. - I mean, I think they
wanted you to put on your, like your abs, or your butt
or something. (chuckles) - No, I'm not putting
that thing on my butt. That's why you subscribe and
ringling the dingling button, to see me do the things
you're not supposed to. I'm like Jackass, except
less entertaining. This is a small item.
There's a little envelope. What could go wrong? Solid state drive. Nothing can stop better. - [Alex] Apparently
this is a 120 gig SATA3 SSD. Now you know what we should do? Let's plug it in and see if it even works and we can write some data to it and then if it works then
I wanna crack it open and see what's inside. Oh, it's just uninitialized. So it does see it as solid state. All right, we're gonna erase it and I'm just gonna, yeah, sure. We'll reformat it. So 120 GB. They claim we should be getting about 500 megabytes per second. All right, 400. - I mean it's within reason. - Usually though the 120 gigs are slower than like the 256 and the 512s. - Sure. - So 400 megabytes per
second write, is fine. And that's a five gigabyte writes? So that actually seems like it's in a reasonable sort of spot. And read is also about 400 megabytes. To be fair that we are going
through a USB controller. So that might slow it down a little bit. Okay, I think we can confirm that this is a real SSD. I don't know how much
I would trust the idea that you're spending $11 on an SSD, but it does work though. So at least we didn't
get completely scammed. The reveal is, it's so little! That actually is a legit
looking SSD though. This is the only thing that actually works and doesn't shock the hell out of me. So... - I mean it can shock the hell outta you. Just, we can, we can make
it, we can arrange that. No, the... - Oh sorry. - Lemme plug it into power first. (chuckles) - I think I know what this next item is. So in the last episode of AliExpress Tech, we found an incredibly
cool portable GameCube. And if I'm correct, this is another one of
that style of console. Although I think this one
actually might be cooler. Inside we have... More padding. Okay, that's a little excessive. I'm gonna admit, that's
a little bit excessive. Behold my friends, a fully custom portable PlayStation 2. Holy, that's big. I thought this was smaller. So it's meant to look like a PSP. And oh my god. When I saw this, I knew I wanted to try a portable PS2. I don't think I quite
had the heft in mind. I mean, just for context, here's a hand, here's a face. I, this is huge. I will say I know that these are hand held and very difficultly done, but can I just say that all of
these buttons are misaligned? Like did you see how
nothing is straight there? Like and they do physically click. How much was this again? - [Alex] We paid $550. You can buy it for $500 now. - It was on sale. - [Alex] It is on sale for $500. - Keep mind that this is an actual PS2 in a 3D printed shell, with all of the, you know, the screen, the
battery and everything. - It's impressive what they're doing here. - [Alex] So turn it on. - Oh, oh there we go. We have a little LED
indicator for the battery. - [Alex] Okay, that's kinda cool. - Okay, that's kind of cool. So, oh! So this actually I see it now here. So the memory cards PS2 MC hack. I'll be honest, I've actually
never used a hacked PS2, so I don't fully know what I'm doing here. So one thing I don't get, there's a little like USB dongle here. Are you trying to tell me, that the controller is a wireless USB dongle? What is this dongle for? - [Alex] The listing does mention that you can connect a PS3
or PS4 controller wirelessly. So maybe that's what that's for. - Oh that's probably what it's for. - And also you know what? On the inside I see a HDMI port, but I assume that's on like
the display or something. - [Alex] It says that
you can connect this to a TV. - You can? - You can. - Oh of course! Because there's the actual AV out on the bottom and there's also ethernet if you wanna plug it in and optical audio. I will say, I now do
see that on the SD card, it's actually been modified. So even though this looks like a regular PlayStation memory card, it actually has a little 64 gig microSD. So that's how you
actually load the ROMs up. So some initial thoughts, this thing is really heavy, like really, really heavy. So first of all, I think this whole thing
is clearly 3D printed. You can see like these like artifacts, from like wherever like
the like the supports were, which you're definitely like kind of blemishes on the appearance. You also can see how like the screen is like kind of being touched
by the actual plastic. So every time I push a button, do you see how like right
here, you see how there's like pressure on the screen? It doesn't look great. That being said though, I
actually think the screen might be slightly better than what
we had on the GameCube. Something else I'm
realizing, I actually think that they took apart a
PS4 controller for this. 'Cause these are definitely
like DualShock for like sticks. Yeah, hang on. I'm just
realizing something. My hands aren't big enough. Like my hands are literally not big enough to like reach all the
way over to the triggers. So, I will say, that this is just too physically big to actually use. Like unless you're Shaq, it's just too heavy and too big. I think this is actually
much more meant to be used with that dongle with like
a PS3 or PS4 controller. At that point, I think
it's gonna be a lot easier, because I'll say the audio is not bad. The screen is acceptable,
considering that this is an SD console, it's getting a little warm and by a little warm, I mean fairly warm, but it's not terrible. It works. It does exactly what they say it does. I mean there's nothing I
can really hold against like what they did in the job they did, but like it is, it is unbelievably huge. Here's one head for scale. And I got a big head. What a rollercoaster of a video. - Smart posture corrector. - [Joanna] Oh man. - Do you need suspenders to
tell you to sit up straight? Are you sitting up straight while you're watching
this video right now? How's your posture? Are you leaning over with your phone? Have you straightened your shoulders? Have you arched your back? Have you taken a step
in the last three hours? I didn't think so. - [Joanna] I'm
having a strong deja vu, because I feel like you said the exact same thing when you ordered it. - I'm so repeatable and predictable, that a lot of times when
I'm watching a video back after we filmed it, I'll
see myself do something. And I will think about a joke to say and then I'll immediately
see myself say it on camera. I am nothing if not predictable. Improve your hump. I've got too much of a hump and I need to improve it, with this smart posture corrector. Do I look cool yet? I'll just show you here. So just for reference, posture. Right? So straightening the back, I'm gonna raise my head and
I'm gonna open my chest. Oh, oh, oh, oh! It's working. Okay, so it is now functioning, which means that I'm holding my posture. If I'm gonna get a little lazy, oh nope! Wait, this actually works! Yeah, it's straight up-- So it's not doing anything, well wait, it is working quite well. But I don't understand why it's very hot. Oh you know what it is? I think it's a little vibration motor. Every time it vibrates it gets hot. So if you have bad posture, you're also gonna have a burnt back. I think it's gotten like uncalibrated, 'cause now it wants me to be like this. No, stop! Stop it! I'm all for trying to keep yourself sort of better posturized. Not to be confused with being
pasteurized, which is milk. Is there anything going on in the back? I can't see. Like does it say or do anything? - [Joanna] It says 33. - So is it like, one of
those things where you take this off at the end of the day and you get your score and how many times I had to buzz at you? - [Joanna] I guess so. - How much did we pay for this? - [Alex] Like $5. - [Austin] I'll say, I'm,
I'm sitting more upright, or standing more upright
than I've been in a while. So much so that I would actually say that I've improved my hump. See? I gotta a reverse hump now. Oh! Okay. So this is the Game Boy Interceptor. So the way this works is that
you plug it into a Game Boy. Now it does specifically
say it doesn't work with the Game Boy Advance SP,
which is my preferred method. So, that's step one. Step two is we're going to plug a game into the interceptor. With it plugged in via USB, it just shows up on your
computer like a webcam. So you can pull it through
like OBS or QuickTime, or whatever you wanna do. So I'm getting a signal on the Mac, but the problem is I'm getting this like really sketchy signal. Let me actually press the button. Okay, so we have the
Interceptor up and running. So our best scenario was
to connect this via USB-C to a Windows computer and OBS. It definitely took some trial and error. We had to like plug and
unplug and reset it. But, we tried a few times
and it now does work. I'll say inside of OBS,
it looks a touch soft, but that's likely because
we're up-scaling it from 144p to 1080p for this video. So lemme actually play
and see what it looks. Like when you're running
it five minutes per second, it takes a lot of focus here. If you want a way to play
authentic games and to record them or to stream them or
something, this is not bad. I mean, your alternative
is really something like a Game Boy Player,
which is quite expensive. You need a GameCube. You need all like the extra setup. The nice thing about this is that all you need is the Interceptor, and a USB cable into a
computer, which is nice. You don't need to deal
with a capture card, you don't need to deal with a GameCube and a bunch of other stuff. The only thing that gives
me a little bit of pause in recommending this, is that it is a little bit janky. The problem here is that
it does not pass audio through to OBS. So to do that you would
actually need to connect via your headphone jack into your system and capture it that way, which is a little bit of an annoyance. So if you're really into Game Boys, this is a neat thing and it
totally works as advertised. It's a little bit janky, but thumbs up. Welcome to my Mechanical
Alliance Dark Commander. He's a metal transformation
die-cast tool in disguise. Oh my, oh, what the-- Well, I will say though,
he does look pretty legit. There's 27 steps for him to transform. Okay, well let's find out, shall we? Mom, can we get Transformers? We have Reformers at home honey. Well, you know, I will say one thing, actually, good build quality. I mean there's a lot of moving
pieces, so the wheels move, like everything does seem
to be quite articulated and there's a lot of
like fine detail on here. Reformers reforming in disguise. Oh! Oh good lord. There's so many pieces to this guy. I'm on step four and
I've already been lost. He's put his head between his crotch as part of this, I believe. So that's a, that's a thing, and then... Reformers reforming in disguise. What do we learn today
with AliExpress Tech? Well, we've learned that Austin should never be given
something that has more than four steps in an instruction manual. We've learned that a lot
of stuff is very expensive and slightly sus quality on AliExpress. We've learned a lot of things don't work, and we've learned that
I am confused way more than I would like to admit. Ah, I've always wanted to be in one of my thumbnails in real life. Thank you very much for watching this episode
of AliExpress Tech. Make sure to subscribe the channel. Otherwise, I'm gonna scam you. Wait, no, I mean,
subscribe to the channel! So you don't get scammed
like your buddy Austin.