- Hey guys. This is Ken. As you might have noticed, I'm not Austin, and that's cause he
couldn't make it today, so welcome to the first episode of Ken Goes To Things That
Austin Can't Go To. We're her at Amazon's Day 1
HQ to take a look at some of the new products they dropped,
and they dropped a lot, and I don't think I can cover
all of it in this video, but this will just be the
things that I found most interesting today. Firstly, they announced a
lot of improvements to Alexa. One of the things that they're
doing is making her seem a lot more human-like. For example, one of the focuses
is contextual conversation. You ask Alexa a question,
and she answers normally, but what you can do now
is ask her follow up questions without having
to manually trigger her. It seems a lot more natural, unlike other assistants
on other platforms. (coughs) Siri. Apart from that, one
of the main focuses of the show were the new
slate of Echo products. There's a lot to cover there, but some of the ones that stood out
to me were, for example, the Echo Dot. Up next to the original Echo Dot, it's definitely way more
chunkier, it has a felt finish, but most importantly, it's
supposed to be 70% louder and sound way more fuller
than the original Echo Dot, and at a 50 dollar price
point, which puts it up next to the Google Home
Mini, which is really cool. I actually want to grab one
of those right now. (laughs) One of the things that people did with the original Echo Dot was plug it into speakers they already had. Well, Amazon saw the opportunity, so they made the Echo Input, what is basically an Echo Dot, but without the speaker or
the felt, which is cool. It's at 35 dollars, which
is a decent chunk of change compared to the Echo
Dot that's going on sale. If you want to save money and
just plug it into a speaker, well, this is a really good option. On the higher end of that, where the Echo Input is
a lower end solution to plugging into setup that you already have, the Echo Link and the
Echo Link Amp are meant to plug into your hi-fi setup
that you might have already. Both of them have 24-bit DACs to work with your existing hi-fi setup at home, which will work great
for services like Tidal, which they just added support for. You can just plug in the Link to a receiver you have already, or you can buy the amp,
which is basically a kind of receiver that can drive speakers with dual 60 watt channels as well. The Link will be available for $199, and the Link Amp will
be available for $299. The former will be available
sometime this year, and the Amp will be available sometime in 2019. They're also giving Sonos
a run for its money with its multiple and stereo room capabilities, so you can tie multiple Echos together and essentially play
them in different rooms or if you have two in the same room, you can have them run in stereo. They actually have a demo of
it right there with Echo Dots, and it sounded pretty good. (chill trap music) It sounded pretty good. They also added the Echo Sub,
which is at a 130 dollars, and you can add that to any
echo setup that you have. If you have two Echo Dots
that are at 50 dollars each, and you have the Echo Sub
That's at 130 dollars, for what is essentially 230 dollars, you have a decent 2.1 setup
that will have a decent punch and sounds great. Among the other announcement noise, Amazon also unveiled Echo Auto. It's available later
this year for 50 dollars or 25 dollars for an invite only thing, whatever that means. It's a module that connects to your car via Bluetooth or aux, basically makes you car a smartcar. Echo Auto uses your phone, your voice, and Alexa to control
things like your music, or you can ask it
directions, and it'll open up whatever GPS or map app you use, and you could even control
your home stuff because Alexa's in it, and it does that. Oh, don't, don't, stop. Let's just mute these. We're good now. Amazon, down this hallway, may or may not have the future of the kitchen or something like that. Right behind me is the thing
that I've been looking forward to forever. It's the AmazonBasics Microwave
that costs 60 dollars, and if you pair it with an Echo, you can basically have a
bunch of presets on tap to heat up a potato or
popcorn or my pizza rolls, I guess. - A ton of microwaving is
done by customers for popcorn, so this microwave actually keep track of how much popcorn you've
cooked and then order more so that you never run out. You will never, never be popcornless. The future's here. - Welcome to 2018. (laughs)