- This is the MSI Creator, Z16, a laptop designed to be the ultimate in performance
for digital creators. And we are going to be pushing
it to its absolute limit, attempting to create a seven
and a half gigapixel image, whether or not that's
actually going to work, we're not sure, but we sure hope so because this video is sponsored by MSI, and the last thing we want
is a repeat of last time. (upbeat techno music) (hits box) I needed a corner I needed, I, I like to start with
a corner. There we go. And who says powerful laptops
have to be thick anymore? Even if the laptop was this thick, it would be thinner than
like a lot of the portable workstations from years gone by. Let's open this puppy up. Oh, look, Luckys in there. (unzips zipper) It's fine this merch isn't available yet on the store anyways. So let's switch over to a
T-shirt that is LTTstore.com. Now, hold on a sec. I don't think I have ever
seen an MSI laptop this rigid. That's really impressive actually. Not just like a uh impressive for MSI, um that's actually really good. The entire bottom is
one gigantic air intake across the back and see
we got speaker grills over here on the left and right. Alex has clearly already
opened this. That's hilarious. In terms of IO, we've got
exhaust on the sides, back, yeah a solid quarter of the device is taken up by exhaust grills. Over on the right. We've got Micro SD, Thunder bolt. USB three,
10 gigabit per second, a type A port, and then, oh, basically the exact same thing over on the left. There is a barrel plug for
power and a headphone Jack instead of Micro SD, but that's pretty, that's basically what I
would need in terms of IO. The one thing I would like
to see is an HDMI port. How big is the battery? 91 hours. Alright then, open it up though. There's not one, not two, but three fans. Here, here and here. And it appears as though in
order to keep the intakes on them as unrestricted as possible, they're actually pulling in air
from both the top and bottom of the device. That is really cool. Like I can, I can see it, I can see you. I can see right through it.
Hey Brandon, come, come see, come see if you can look
through it with the camera. You gotta be like right here. - [Brandon] inaudible Can you see me moving
back and forth back here? Makes sense. It needs so much cooling. It's got an Intel Core
i9-11900H + RTX 3060. So it's very powerful on both the CPU and GPU side of things. Of course, one of the biggest selling
points of this machine, isn't what's in the bottom
half of the clam shell, but rather what's in the top half. This is what MSI is calling
their true pixel touch display. It's a 16 inch 2560 x 1600, 400 nit peak brightness display
that is pre calibrated to a Delta E of less than two. So the idea here is that you've
got a portable machine that has basically a professional
grade creative monitor on it. Not only that, but if you
like to game in your off time, it even runs at 120 Hz. Now I'm a big fan of taller
than 16 x 9 displays. And the reason for that is
from a creative standpoint, it allows you to have more
video tracks, more tools. Um, It allows you to just
not auto hide your taskbar and not be giving up
that extra real estate at the bottom of your screen. I'm a huge fan. Enough foreplay though, the technique that we're going
to be using to create our giant image and really show
off the grunt of this laptop is called the Brenizer method, AKA Bokehrama. It's a technique that is super
popular in both portrait and especially wedding photography, because what it allows you to do is create an extra wide angle image, but still have that pleasing Boka that draws the viewer's
eye to the subject. Let's go out to the courtyard
to show you guys how it works. This is great. We've got
our dream photographer, this gorgeous location with
the greenery and the industrial building and Collin's motorbike, which my betrothed here is super into. The only problem is that
in order to capture this environment, Brandon's got
to use a wide angle lens. And unless you've got a really
expensive camera with a large sensor and a matching expensive fast lens, you can't get that Boka
effect with a wide angle shot. And, even if you do, it
doesn't look as natural as it does with a telephoto lens. - The one super fun thing
about the Brenizer method is you actually are not ever 100% sure that you have every part of the image that you need. I mean, you can just trust your instincts,
which is what I'm doing, but I'm not a hundred percent
certain that I'm not missing like a tiny gap in between these photos. I'm just trying to over. Okay, cool. Hopefully that works. - Now that's better with
a 50 millimeter lens we've got a much more pleasing image, but we lose this environment. How are we going to
remember where we were? Well, that's where the
Brenizer method comes in. Brandon can take 20, 30, 40, 50, as many as he wants really,
additional shots from the same position, with the same lens, then we can stitch them all
together to get, what is essentially the best of both
worlds. Nice wide angle, nice pleasing Boka. - So we have about 71 photos, which probably is a little bit too many. - I was going to say I think you went a little on the side of (camera shutter) - I went really ham to just
make sure we were covered on the entire area. So for this method, it's probably better to use fewer, but I've already started the
render for this. It's you can see it going in the corner. - Yeah, it is going. - Um, But all you have to do when you do this meth, but oh, Lightroom, - You shouldn't have clicked. - I shouldn't have clicked. Okay, hold on. - Oh it's back! - Oh, there we go. So
you select all of these. Here, I can probably do the select all. Let's see if it lets me, oh, oh, oh it's it's working very hard. Cause
even though this is easier than what we're going to do later, it's still working pretty hard. I probably pushed it
a little bit too hard. - Well, the fact that it hasn't crashed. - Like fully crashed. I'm impressed. (camera man laughing) - You laugh, but like, - Okay, Okay! Hey, no, look, it's selected all, it's selected all. Okay. I'm just going to show
you what I did so that we don't actually have to disturb this, but you just select everything. - Yeah. - Then you right click - Yeah - And then you go to photo merge - Yeah - And then you go to
Panorama and then that's it. And then it gives you a preview
which takes almost as much time as it takes to render it. Cause it is essentially
rendering a preview report. - Right, so you might
as well just render it. - Yeah. And then once you will,
once you have the preview, then you'll know, because
once the preview is completed, if there's any gaps in where
you take, took photos, Adobe has a fill edge, - Oh I see - Like um AI thing And it
works surprisingly well. So if you've got like a
little tiny hole in the photo, - I don't think you
got a hole in the photo - I don't think I gotta hole in this photo - We took 71 picture frames (laughing) - But we can also show the
example of the like approximation on the wide lens, - Yeah - Of you from that distance, - Right - You can see - I'm beautiful - Beautiful you, but, you can see that the rest
of the photo is kind of meh. Like it's, there's not
a lot of foreground. - Yeah it doesn't look good - These trees are pretty dark - Even these buildings - The buildings are pretty
unfocused. Like it's, there's no depth. So the hope is once
this photo is rendered, we will actually have a
photo with much more depth. You will be still small, but there'll be a lot more like
there'll be a bigger feeling to it. - So small, so small Yeah How many megapixels is each of these? - 26 - 26, well there's your problem. - 26.1. - Yeah. There's your problem. That 0.1 counts when you take 71 of them. - And we're going to try 250 later. - Oh good. I did notice that as part of
our preparation for this video, we grabbed a 64 gig kit
of crucial ballistix. How much Ram are we using right now? - Let's take a look. 23 out of the 32 gigs and the photo isn't fully rendered yet. So hopefully we don't overdo it. It might already need the 64. I might have overdone it
already, but we'll see. Okay. We're back. So after a little bit, - Totally different effect though - You can see, especially
in like the buildings, like look how much of
a difference that is. - Oh for sure - I mean, again, this is
a larger photo overall because I approximated what it would look like on the wide. But, - You might say you were overcompensating. (laughing) - But yeah. Like,
especially in the bushes. - I'm impressed at how, I mean, I shouldn't be that
impressed by how seamlessly it's been merged. - Yeah - I don't use Lightroom tho - Actually, to be honest
we did two takes of this and the second take did not fare as well. There's the other take and you see it didn't love this tree. This tree is here. Fine. Here, not fine. - Yeah. Oh it's broken. - But yeah, this is
actually the third take. - Trees like I'm whole. - I'm I'm partially a tree. - Oh wow. That's not even close. - Right? Because that's, this is one
photo at the tightest point. And then this is lots of photos. - How long did this take to render? - Like an hour (laughing) - So this is one of
those things where, okay, maybe this new generation of
laptop is only 20% faster than the old one, or even only 10% faster. But when it's a render that
literally takes an hour, every 10%, it's another
six minutes heads up. - So 21,000 x 10,000 is what we got out of about 70 photos of you - (beep) - Or 70 photos of this area. - How many megapixels is
that? Hold on a second, 216 megapixels. - Wow. - Yeah, I think we can do more - We can do more. - But first we're going to
need to upgrade the RAM. Now you can get the Z16
with 64 gigs of Ram out of the box. But I mean, silly us. How were we to know that we
were going to need to stitch together 200 photos? So we
went with the 32 gig model. Thankfully, this also gives us an opportunity
to show off that this is upgradable that's right my friends, you can still buy professional
grade laptops that can actually be, uh, improved.
It's not the easiest. I really wish that these screws
were not under the rubber feet at the back. That would be, that would be bonus marks MSI, but being able to do it at all is like somehow um a win these days. So I guess I'll take
it where I can get it. There we go. Ah, yeah. Wow. It's a small motherboard. Isn't it? Where is our M.2 drive? Oh, oh, it's got spots for two of them. Oh cool. So there's
still an open M.2 slot. I just couldn't see it
because it's actually on the underside relative to where
I'm looking at it from right here. More importantly,
we can replace our memory. Crucial ballistix, 2x32GB 3200MHz Sounds great. And once you
spent this much on a laptop, this honestly is probably a
pretty good investment. Okay. You going to go in there? You going to go in there little buddy? Uh oh Alex. It's a so skinny. I don't think it supports a couple sites. Oh my God. Is it just the difference in like the heat spreader thickness? I think I have to take
off the heat spreader. It's like a metallic style heat spreader. Oh, that's cute. Look at
that. It's got the little imprints of the memory chip IDs. Let's see if that fixes it.
It totally did! It's in. Come check this out, David, just to prove to you that
I'm not making it up. Look at this. It will not. Hold on, Let me get it
aligned, it will not go in literal actual sticker. Okay. (laughing) I have never seen tolerance as
this type before in my life. I mean that I've noticed
obviously lots of products have pieces that fit together
with that level of precision, but I've never seen it
actually matter like this, this might be the best machine
that I've ever seen from MSI. Loses some of the rigidity when you take the bottom of chastity
off, still respectable though. I've seen laptops that are
worse than this with the bottom piece on from MSI. (coughing) And there we are 64 gigs of
Ram, six of which we're using already, and it's time to give
the reins back to Brandon. - So I actually have no idea
what resolution this photo is going to be. - 1 Billion Pixels (laughing) Probably not, - No - Maybe like half a billion. And this is just going to be like this epic landscape picture? - It's a, it's a photo
of White Rock Beach. - And people can download
it in the video description Maybe? - Yes - That'd be cool. At least on float plane. I don't know if we have any
way of hosting it reliably for YouTube viewers. - To be fair to anyone
who does this method of taking photos. This technique, you do not need nearly
this many photos to do this technique. You could
do it with nine photos. We're just pushing it to an
extreme that is completely unnecessary and not necessarily
even the proper way to do it, but we want to see if it works. - Yeah - Okay. So I've selected all 371 photos. So I'm just, oh, there we go. - [Camera Man] Oh you did it - Well it's not, it's
not, it's trying to do it. It, the bar is loading and
we're at 21 gigs of Ram and it's about 2% of the way. - I like my progress
bars. Like I like my milk. - White? - 2% (laughing) - Okay. So the preview has completed. - Oh no - As you can see, - Oh no Brandon - There is a tiny gap - Tiny? - In this tree. - I think the word you were
looking for was gaping. (laughing) - Well look how big the
photo is comparatively. Also, if you look, if we do,
if we undo the auto crop, this is the pre cropped
version of all these photos, - How'd you manage to miss that? - I don't know, but we
can hit the fill edge And in theory they will - AI will make us some trees. - Make us some trees and
I will not be concerned that there is a gaping hole in this photo. - Yeah. Cause like, you can't really just like go back to this. - No - And just get One specific tree - Take that one specific tree - Take out the pole, pull
the phone. Okay. We're good. Oh wow. We're well, over 32 gigs though. - The Ram was definitely an issue before. And the fact that we have 64
is clearly helping in this case, filled edges - Oh nice - Pretty good. You would never know. There
was a missing square there. - Yeah. You tell you're yourself that (laughing) They're going to know. - But yeah, you can see 41 of 267 photos
were not able to be merged, but that's okay. Because
we still have a full photo. - Over 200 - Yeah. And moment of truth. We're gonna hit merge and then
we're gonna just let it go. - Okay. Good luck everybody. - Yeah. The Ram is 100% helping. - Yep. Okay. Well let's let it run. - Yeah. - Good luck everybody. - So it's the next day since
we're at the end of the Workday yesterday, but it's done. It's crazy. Like, look, look at it. It's actually pretty impressive. And if we go into LightRoom, you can see the resolution
is 35,913 x 14,873. - Yeah. So that's about half a gigapixel to give you some perspective, - That's 534 megapixels
if we did the calculator. But the really cool thing is
when you look at the photo in the photo viewer, you
can just zoom right in. And we still have a lot of
detail in here because it's just a photo at that distance,
but a lot of them. - It's such a crazy effect.
Cause like it's a wide, but there's like geese
here that are just dots. And then you just go in
and it's like, oh, hello. I can completely see this goose. - There's four of them.
There's a family right there. - Yeah. And there's like,
people in here that are just, you can't see them at all and
you go in and it's like, oh, Hey, there's a guy. - And some birds and some cars, - The amount of detail is staggering. - Alright. I want to print this. Think I'm going to print this
and you guys can download it in the link in the description. - Yeah. I want to make a bunch of these. I really love telephoto lenses. And I'm going to just do
this all the time now. - Yeah. For anyone This
is my first time using the Brenizer method. And for anyone who was thinking,
if they wanted to try it, give it a shot. It's a lot of fun. Maybe don't do it with 200
photos, but maybe like 29 to 20, you'll be, you'll be real good. And if you're a wedding
photographer in particular, very useful. - Freaking unbelievable. Thanks to MSI for sponsoring
this video and for sending over your Creator, Z16 laptop, I think we've demonstrated that
no matter what it is you're trying to do with it. This
is one capable machine. The spec we've got is 2,600 us dollars. And then if you want to go to 64 gigs, obviously that's going to
cost another few hundred, but then is there ever
a lot to like about it? Everything from the
performance to the display, to the build quality freaking awesome. If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe check out our other
disastrous and the size sponsored laptop video. (laughing) Yeah, no, this one was good though. The other one was disastrous
our other disastrous one. It's pretty funny though.