
Empire of Japan - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
??Navigation
?
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
??Contribute
?
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page.
Search
Search
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
??Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Terminology
2History
Toggle History subsection
2.1Background
2.1.1Boshin War
2.2Meiji era (1868-1912)
2.2.1Transposition in social order and cultural destruction
2.2.2Political reform
2.2.3Economic development
2.2.4First Sino-Japanese War
2.2.5Boxer Rebellion
2.2.6Russo-Japanese War
2.2.7Annexation of Korea
2.3Taish? era (1912-1926)
2.3.1World War I
2.3.2Siberian Intervention
2.3.3"Taish? Democracy"
2.4Early Sh?wa (1926-1930)
2.4.1Rise of militarism and its social organisations
2.4.2Nationalism and decline of democracy
2.4.3Economic factors
2.5Later Sh?wa (1931-1941)
2.5.1Prewar expansionism
2.5.1.1Manchuria
2.5.1.2Second Sino-Japanese War
2.5.1.3Clashes with the Soviet Union
2.5.1.4Tripartite Pact
2.6World War II (1941-1945)
2.6.1Japanese conquests
2.6.2Tide turns
2.6.3Surrender
2.7End of the Empire of Japan
2.7.1Occupation of Japan
3Influential personnel
Toggle Influential personnel subsection
3.1Political
3.2Diplomats
3.3Military
3.3.1Imperial Japanese Army
3.3.1.1Early period
3.3.1.2World War II
3.3.2Imperial Japanese Navy
3.3.2.1Early period
3.3.2.2World War II
4Demographics
5Economy
6Education
7Notable scholars/scientists
Toggle Notable scholars/scientists subsection
7.119th century
7.1.1Anthropologists, ethnologists, archaeologists, and historians
7.1.2Medical scientists, biologists, evolutionary theorists, and geneticists
7.1.3Inventors, industrialists, engineers
7.1.4Philosophers, educators, mathematicians, and polymaths
7.1.5Chemists, physicists, and geologists
7.220th century
8Timeline
9Emperors
10Emblems
11See also
12Notes
13References
Toggle References subsection
13.1Citations
13.2Bibliography
14External links
Toggle the table of contents
Empire of Japan
83 languages
Afrikaans???????AsturianuAva?e'?Az?rbaycanca???????????BanjarB?n-l?m-g???????????Bikol Central?????????Brezhoneg??????Catal?????????e?tinaDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικ?Espa?olEsperantoEuskara?????Fran?aisGaelgGalego???/Hak-k?-ng?????????????????HrvatskiIdoBahasa IndonesiaInterlingua?slenskaItaliano????????????Latvie?uLietuvi?Magyar?????????Bahasa Melayu??? / M?ng-d??ng-ng??????????????????Nederlands???Norsk bokm?l?????O?zbekcha / ??????????????????????????PolskiPortugu?sRom?n????????ScotsShqipSimple EnglishSloven?inaSloven??ina?????? / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / ??????????????SuomiSvenskaTagalog???????????? / tatar?a???T?rk?e??????????????V?netoTi?ng Vi?t????????
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadView sourceView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
??Actions
?
ReadView sourceView history
??General
?
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLWikidata item
??Print/export
?
Download as PDFPrintable version
??In other projects
?
Wikimedia Commons
Coordinates: 35°40?57?N 139°45?10?E? / ?35.68250°N 139.75278°E? / 35.68250; 139.75278
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
1868-1947 empire in East Asia
Not to be confused with Japanese colonial empire.
"The Japanese Empire" redirects here. For the book by Sarah C. Paine, see The Japanese Empire (book).
Empire of Japan?????Dai Nippon Teikoku or Dai Nihon Teikoku1868-1947
Flag
 Imperial Seal
Motto:?(1868-1912)???????Gokaj? no Goseimon"The Oath in Five Articles"Anthem:?(1869-1945)???Kimigayo"His Imperial Majesty's Reign"[1][2][a]noiconEmpire of Japan (1 to 6) from the 1910 annexation of Korea until the 1945 surrender.[b]Areas de facto controlled by the Empire of Japan at peak in World War II (1942):
??Naichi[c]
??Gaichi: De facto colonies (Korea, Taiwan, and Karafuto[d])/Mandate/Leased territory
??Puppet states/Occupied territories
Capital
Kyoto (1868-1869)[3]
Tokyo City (1869-1943)
Tokyo (1943-1947)
Largest city
Tokyo City (1868-1943)
Tokyo (1943-1947)
Official?languagesJapaneseRecognised regional?languages
Hokkien
Mandarin
Hakka
Korean
Religion 
De jure: Secular state
De facto: State Shinto (state ideology)[e]
GovernmentUnitary absolute monarchy(1868-1889)[7]
under Daij?-kan[7](1868-1885)
Unitary parliamentary semi-constitutional monarchy(1889-1947)[8]
under military occupation (1945-1947)
Emperor?•?1868-1912 Meiji•?1912-1926 Taish?•?1926-1947 Sh?wa
Prime Minister?•?1885-1888 (first) It? Hirobumi•?1946-1947 (last) Shigeru Yoshida
LegislatureNone (rule by decree) (1868-1871)House of Peers (1871-1889)Imperial Diet (since 1889)•?Upper houseHouse of Peers (1889-1947)•?Lower houseHouse of Representatives (from 1890)Historical eraMeiji?• Taish??• Sh?wa•?Meiji Restoration 3 January 1868[9]•?Meiji Constitution 11 February 1889•?First Sino-Japanese War 25 July 1894•?Russo-Japanese War 8 February 1904•?World War I 23 August 1914•?Mukden Incident 18 September 1931•?Second Sino-Japanese War 7 July 1937•?Founding of the IRAA 12 October 1940•?World War II 7 December 1941•?Surrender of Japan 2 September 1945•?Reconstituted 3 May 1947[8]
Area 1938[10]1,984,000[f]?km2 (766,000?sq?mi)1942[11]7,400,000[g]?km2 (2,900,000?sq?mi)Population•?1920 77,700,000a•?1940 105,200,000[h]b
Currency
Japanese yen
Korean yen
Taiwanese yen
 Preceded by
Succeeded by
Tokugawa shogunate
Republic of Ezo
Occupied Japan
Japan
56.0 million lived in the naichi.[12]73.1 million lived in the naichi.[12]
Part of a series on theHistory of JapanTokyo Industrial Exhibition, 1907
ListPaleolithicbefore 14,000 BCJ?mon14,000 - 1000 BCYayoi
1000 BC - 300 ADKofun
300 AD - 538 ADAsuka
538 - 710Nara
710 - 794HeianFormer Nine Years' WarLater Three-Year WarGenpei War 794-1185KamakuraJ?ky? WarMongol invasionsGenk? WarKenmu Restoration 1185-1333MuromachiNanboku-ch? periodSengoku period 1336-1573Azuchi-Momoyama
Nanban tradeImjin War 1573-1603Edo (Tokugawa)
Tokugawa shogunateInvasion of RyukyuSiege of OsakaSakokuPerry ExpeditionConvention of KanagawaBakumatsuMeiji RestorationBoshin War 1603-1868Meiji
Invasion of Taiwan (1874)Satsuma RebellionFirst Sino-Japanese WarTreaty of ShimonosekiTriple InterventionInvasion of Taiwan (1895)Colonization of TaiwanBoxer RebellionRusso-Japanese WarTreaty of PortsmouthJapan-Korea TreatyColonization of Korea 1868-1912Taish?
World War IIntervention in SiberiaGreat Kant? earthquake 1912-1926Sh?wa
MilitarismFinancial crisisNanking incidentMukden IncidentInvasion of ManchuriaMay 15 incidentFebruary 26 incidentAnti-Comintern PactTripartite PactSecond Sino-Japanese WarWorld War IIAttack on Pearl HarborPacific WarAtomic bombingsSoviet-Japanese WarSurrender of JapanOccupation of JapanPostwar JapanAnpo protestsEconomic miracleAsset price bubble1926-1989Heisei
Lost DecadesGreat Hanshin earthquakeCool JapanT?hoku earthquakeImperial transition 1989-2019ReiwaCOVID-19 pandemicAbe assassination 2019-present
Topics
Currency
Earthquakes
Economy
Era names
Education
Empire
Foreign relations
Geography
Historiography
Religion
Buddhism
Christianity
Islam
Judaism
Shinto
Military
Naval
Politics
Post-war
Science and technology
Sports
World Heritage Sites
Glossary
History
Timelinevte
Japanese EmpireJapanese nameKanji?????Hiragana???????????????????Katakana???????????????????Ky?jitai?????TranscriptionsRevised HepburnDai Nippon TeikokuDai Nihon Teikoku
Japanese EmpireJapanese nameKy?jitai?????Shinjitai?????TranscriptionsRomanizationDai Nippon TeikokuOfficial Term nameOfficial TermJapanese EmpireLiteral Translation nameLiteral TranslationImperial State of Greater Japan
The Empire of Japan (Japanese: ?????, Dai Nippon Teikoku or Dai Nihon Teikoku), also referred to as?the Japanese Empire,?Imperial Japan,?or simply?Japan, was the Japanese nation-state[i] that existed from the Meiji Restoration in 1868 until the enactment of the reformed Constitution of Japan in 1947.[8] From 29 August 1910 until 2 September 1945, it administered the naichi (the Japanese archipelago and post-1943 Karafuto) and the gaichi (Korea, Taiwan, Kwantung Leased Territory, and pre-1943 Karafuto). The South Seas Mandate was a single Japanese dependent territory in the name of the League of Nations under Japanese administration. In the closing stages of World War II, with Japan defeated alongside the rest of the Axis, the formalized Japanese Instrument of Surrender was issued in compliance with the Potsdam Declaration of the victorious Allies, and Japanese de facto territory subsequently shrunk to cover only the Japanese archipelago as it is today.
Under the slogans of fukoku ky?hei[j] and shokusan k?gy?,[k] which followed the Boshin War and the restoration of power to the Emperor from the Shogun, Japan underwent a period of large-scale industrialization and militarization, often regarded as the fastest modernization of any country to date. All of these aspects contributed to Japan's emergence as a great power following the First Sino-Japanese War, the Boxer Rebellion, the Russo-Japanese War, and World War I. Economic and political turmoil in the 1920s, including the Great Depression, led to the rise of militarism, nationalism, statism and totalitarianism. This ideological shift eventually culminated in Japan joining the Axis alliance with Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy, and also conquering a large part of the Asia-Pacific.[15] During this period, the Japanese army commited many atrocities, including the Nanjing Massacre.
The Imperial Japanese Armed Forces initially achieved large-scale military successes during the Second Sino-Japanese War and the Pacific War. However, from 1942 onwards, and particularly after decisive Allied advances at Midway Atoll and Guadalcanal, Japan was forced to adopt a defensive stance against the United States. The American-led island-hopping campaign led to the eventual loss of many of Japan's Oceanian island possessions in the following three years. Eventually, the American military captured Iwo Jima and Okinawa Island, leaving the Japanese mainland unprotected and without a significant naval defense force. By August 1945, plans had been made for an Allied invasion of mainland Japan, but were shelved after Japan surrendered in the face of a major breakthrough by the United States and the Soviet Union, with the former detonating two atomic bombs over Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the latter invading Japan's northern territories. The Pacific War officially came to an end on 2 September 1945, leading to the beginning of the Allied occupation of Japan, during which American military leader Douglas MacArthur administered the country. In 1947, through Allied efforts, a new Japanese constitution was enacted, officially ending the Japanese Empire and forming present-day Japan. During this time, the Imperial Japanese Armed Forces were dissolved and replaced by the current Japan Self-Defense Forces. Reconstruction under the Allied occupation continued until 1952, consolidating the modern Japanese constitutional monarchy. 
In total, the Empire of Japan had three emperors: Meiji, Taish?, and Sh?wa. The Imperial era came to an end partway through Sh?wa's reign, though he remained emperor until 1989.
Terminology
The historical state is frequently referred to as the "Empire of Japan", the "Japanese Empire", or "Imperial Japan" in English. In Japanese it is referred to as Dai Nippon Teikoku (?????),[16] which translates to "Empire of Great Japan" (Dai "Great", Nippon "Japanese", Teikoku "Empire"). Teikoku is itself composed of the nouns Tei "referring to an emperor" and -koku "nation, state", literally "Imperial State" or "Imperial Realm" (compare the German Kaiserreich).
This meaning is significant in terms of geography, encompassing Japan, and its surrounding areas. The nomenclature Empire of Japan had existed since the anti-Tokugawa domains, Satsuma and Ch?sh?, which founded their new government during the Meiji Restoration, with the intention of forming a modern state to resist Western domination. Later the Empire emerged as a great power in the world.
Due to its name in kanji characters and its flag, it was also given the exonyms "Empire of the Sun" and "Empire of the Rising Sun."
History
Background
Main article: Bakumatsu
After two centuries, the seclusion policy, or sakoku, under the sh?guns of the Edo period came to an end when the country was forced open to trade by the Convention of Kanagawa which came when Matthew C. Perry arrived in Japan in 1854. Thus, the period known as Bakumatsu began.
The following years saw increased foreign trade and interaction; commercial treaties between the Tokugawa shogunate and Western countries were signed. In large part due to the humiliating terms of these unequal treaties, the shogunate soon faced internal hostility, which materialized into a radical, xenophobic movement, the sonn? j?i (literally "Revere the Emperor, expel the barbarians").[17]
In March 1863, the Emperor issued the "order to expel barbarians." Although the shogunate had no intention of enforcing the order, it nevertheless inspired attacks against the shogunate itself and against foreigners in Japan. The Namamugi Incident during 1862 led to the murder of an Englishman, Charles Lennox Richardson, by a party of samurai from Satsuma. The British demanded reparations but were denied. While attempting to exact payment, the Royal Navy was fired on from coastal batteries near the town of Kagoshima. They responded by bombarding the port of Kagoshima in 1863. The Tokugawa government agreed to pay an indemnity for Richardson's death.[18] Shelling of foreign shipping in Shimonoseki and attacks against foreign property led to the bombardment of Shimonoseki by a multinational force in 1864.[19] The Ch?sh? clan also launched the failed coup known as the Kinmon incident. The Satsuma-Ch?sh? alliance was established in 1866 to combine their efforts to overthrow the Tokugawa bakufu. In early 1867, Emperor K?mei died of smallpox and was replaced by his son, Crown Prince Mutsuhito (Meiji).
On November 9, 1867, Tokugawa Yoshinobu resigned from his post and authorities to the emperor, agreeing to "be the instrument for carrying out" imperial orders,[20] leading to the end of the Tokugawa shogunate.[21][22] However, while Yoshinobu's resignation had created a nominal void at the highest level of government, his apparatus of state continued to exist. Moreover, the shogunal government, the Tokugawa family in particular, remained a prominent force in the evolving political order and retained many executive powers,[23] a prospect hard-liners from Satsuma and Ch?sh? found intolerable.[24]
On January 3, 1868, Satsuma-Ch?sh? forces seized the imperial palace in Kyoto, and the following day had the fifteen-year-old Emperor Meiji declare his own restoration to full power. Although the majority of the imperial consultative assembly was happy with the formal declaration of direct rule by the court and tended to support a continued collaboration with the Tokugawa, Saig? Takamori, leader of the Satsuma clan, threatened the assembly into abolishing the title sh?gun and ordered the confiscation of Yoshinobu's lands.[l]
On January 17, 1868, Yoshinobu declared "that he would not be bound by the proclamation of the Restoration and called on the court to rescind it".[26] On January 24, Yoshinobu decided to prepare an attack on Kyoto, occupied by Satsuma and Ch?sh? forces. This decision was prompted by his learning of a series of arson attacks in Edo, starting with the burning of the outworks of Edo Castle, the main Tokugawa residence.
Boshin War
Main article: Boshin War
The Naval Battle of Hakodate, May 1869; in the foreground, Kasuga and K?tetsu of the Imperial Japanese Navy
The Boshin War (????, Boshin Sens?) was fought between January 1868 and May 1869. The alliance of samurai from southern and western domains and court officials had now secured the cooperation of the young Emperor Meiji, who ordered the dissolution of the two-hundred-year-old Tokugawa shogunate. Tokugawa Yoshinobu launched a military campaign to seize the emperor's court in Kyoto. However, the tide rapidly turned in favor of the smaller but relatively modernized imperial faction and resulted in defections of many daimy?s to the Imperial side. The Battle of Toba-Fushimi was a decisive victory in which a combined army from Ch?sh?, Tosa, and Satsuma domains defeated the Tokugawa army.[27] A series of battles were then fought in pursuit of supporters of the Shogunate; Edo surrendered to the Imperial forces and afterward, Yoshinobu personally surrendered. Yoshinobu was stripped of all his power by Emperor Meiji and most of Japan accepted the emperor's rule.
Pro-Tokugawa remnants retreated to northern Honsh? (?uetsu Reppan D?mei) and later to Ezo (present-day Hokkaid?), where they established the breakaway Republic of Ezo. An expeditionary force was dispatched by the new government and the Ezo Republic forces were overwhelmed. The siege of Hakodate came to an end in May 1869 and the remaining forces surrendered.[27]
Meiji era (1868-1912)
Emperor Meiji, the 122nd emperor of Japan
Main articles: Meiji period, Meiji Restoration, and Government of Meiji Japan
The Charter Oath was made public at the enthronement of Emperor Meiji of Japan on April 7, 1868. The Oath outlined the main aims and the course of action to be followed during Emperor Meiji's reign, setting the legal stage for Japan's modernization.[28] The Meiji leaders also aimed to boost morale and win financial support for the new government.
Prominent members of the Iwakura mission. Left to right: Kido Takayoshi, Yamaguchi Masuka, Iwakura Tomomi, It? Hirobumi, ?kubo Toshimichi
Japan dispatched the Iwakura Mission in 1871. The mission traveled the world in order to renegotiate the unequal treaties with the United States and European countries that Japan had been forced into during the Tokugawa shogunate, and to gather information on western social and economic systems, in order to effect the modernization of Japan. Renegotiation of the unequal treaties was universally unsuccessful, but close observation of the American and European systems inspired members on their return to bring about modernization initiatives in Japan. Japan made a territorial delimitation treaty with Russia in 1875, gaining all the Kuril islands in exchange for Sakhalin island.[29]
The Japanese government sent observers to Western countries to observe and learn their practices, and also paid "foreign advisors" in a variety of fields to come to Japan to educate the populace. For instance, the judicial system and constitution were modeled after Prussia, described by Sabur? Ienaga as "an attempt to control popular thought with a blend of Confucianism and German conservatism."[30] The government also outlawed customs linked to Japan's feudal past, such as publicly displaying and wearing katana and the top knot, both of which were characteristic of the samurai class, which was abolished together with the caste system. This would later bring the Meiji government into conflict with the samurai.
Several writers, under the constant threat of assassination from their political foes, were influential in winning Japanese support for westernization. One such writer was Fukuzawa Yukichi, whose works included "Conditions in the West," "Leaving Asia", and "An Outline of a Theory of Civilization," which detailed Western society and his own philosophies. In the Meiji Restoration period, military and economic power was emphasized. Military strength became the means for national development and stability. Imperial Japan became the only non-Western world power and a major force in East Asia in about 25 years as a result of industrialization and economic development.
As writer Albrecht F?rst von Urach comments in his booklet "The Secret of Japan's Strength," published in 1942, during the Axis powers period:
The rise of Japan to a world power during the past 80 years is the greatest miracle in world history. The mighty empires of antiquity, the major political institutions of the Middle Ages and the early modern era, the Spanish Empire, the British Empire, all needed centuries to achieve their full strength. Japan's rise has been meteoric. After only 80 years, it is one of the few great powers that determine the fate of the world.[31]
Transposition in social order and cultural destruction
Main articles: Japanese new religions ??Before World War II, Christianity in Japan ??Opening of Japan, and History of the Catholic Church in Japan ??Rediscovery and return
See also: Burakumin and Turanism
In the 1860s, Japan began to experience great social turmoil and rapid modernization. The feudal caste system in Japan formally ended in 1869 with the Meiji restoration. In 1871, the newly formed Meiji government issued a decree called Senmin Haishirei (????? Edict Abolishing Ignoble Classes) giving burakumin equal legal status.  It is currently better known as the Kaih?rei (??? Emancipation Edict).  However, the elimination of their economic monopolies over certain occupations actually led to a decline in their general living standards, while social discrimination simply continued.  For example, the ban on the consumption of meat from livestock was lifted in 1871, and many former burakumin moved on to work in abattoirs and as butchers. However, slow-changing social attitudes, especially in the countryside, meant that abattoirs and workers were met with hostility from local residents. Continued ostracism as well as the decline in living standards led to former burakumin communities turning into slum areas.
In the Blood tax riots, the Japanese Meiji government brutally put down revolts by Japanese samurai angry that the traditional untouchable status of burakumin was legally revoked.[citation needed]
The social tension continued to grow during the Meiji period, affecting religious practices and institutions. Conversion from traditional faith was no longer legally forbidden, officials lifted the 250-year ban on Christianity, and missionaries of established Christian churches reentered Japan. The traditional syncreticism between Shinto and Buddhism ended. Losing the protection of the Japanese government which Buddhism had enjoyed for centuries, Buddhist monks faced radical difficulties in sustaining their institutions, but their activities also became less restrained by governmental policies and restrictions. As social conflicts emerged in this last decade of the Edo period, some new religious movements appeared, which were directly influenced by shamanism and Shinto.
Emperor Ogimachi issued edicts to ban Catholicism in 1565 and 1568, but to little effect. Beginning in 1587 with imperial regent Toyotomi Hideyoshi's ban on Jesuit missionaries, Christianity was repressed as a threat to national unity. Under Hideyoshi and the succeeding Tokugawa shogunate, Catholic Christianity was repressed and adherents were persecuted. After the Tokugawa shogunate banned Christianity in 1620, it ceased to exist publicly. Many Catholics went underground, becoming hidden Christians (???????, kakure kirishitan), while others lost their lives. After Japan was opened to foreign powers in 1853, many Christian clergymen were sent from Catholic, Protestant, and Orthodox churches, though proselytism was still banned. Only after the Meiji Restoration, was Christianity re-established in Japan. Freedom of religion was introduced in 1871, giving all Christian communities the right to legal existence and preaching.
Eastern Orthodoxy was brought to Japan in the 19th century by St. Nicholas (baptized as Ivan Dmitrievich Kasatkin),[32] who was sent in 1861 by the Russian Orthodox Church to Hakodate, Hokkaid? as priest to a chapel of the Russian Consulate.[33] St. Nicholas of Japan made his own translation of the New Testament and some other religious books (Lenten Triodion, Pentecostarion, Feast Services, Book of Psalms, Irmologion) into Japanese.[34] Nicholas has since been canonized as a saint by the Patriarchate of Moscow in 1970, and is now recognized as St. Nicholas, Equal-to-the-Apostles to Japan. His commemoration day is February 16. Andronic Nikolsky, appointed the first Bishop of Kyoto and later martyred as the archbishop of Perm during the Russian Revolution, was also canonized by the Russian Orthodox Church as a Saint and Martyr in the year 2000.
?ura Church, Nagasaki
Divie Bethune McCartee was the first ordained Presbyterian minister missionary to visit Japan, in 1861-1862. His gospel tract translated into Japanese was among the first Protestant literature in Japan. In 1865, McCartee moved back to Ningbo, China, but others have followed in his footsteps. There was a burst of growth of Christianity in the late 19th century when Japan re-opened its doors to the West. Protestant church growth slowed dramatically in the early 20th century under the influence of the military government during the Sh?wa period.
Under the Meiji Restoration, the practices of the samurai classes, deemed feudal and unsuitable for modern times following the end of sakoku in 1853, resulted in a number of edicts intended to 'modernise' the appearance of upper class Japanese men. With the Dampatsurei Edict of 1871 issued by Emperor Meiji during the early Meiji Era, men of the samurai classes were forced to cut their hair short, effectively abandoning the chonmage (chonmage) hairstyle.[35]:?149?
During the early 20th century, the government was suspicious towards a number of unauthorized religious movements and periodically made attempts to suppress them. Government suppression was especially severe from the 1930s until the early 1940s, when the growth of Japanese nationalism and State Shinto were closely linked. Under the Meiji regime l?se majest? prohibited insults against the Emperor and his Imperial House, and also against some major Shinto shrines which were believed to be tied strongly to the Emperor. The government strengthened its control over religious institutions that were considered to undermine State Shinto or nationalism.
The majority of Japanese castles were smashed and destroyed in the late 19th century in the Meiji restoration by the Japanese people and government in order to modernize and westernize Japan and break from their past feudal era of the Daimyo and Shoguns. It was only due to the 1964 Summer Olympics in Japan that cheap concrete replicas of those castles were built for tourists.[36][37][38] The vast majority of castles in Japan today are new replicas made out of concrete.[39][40][41] In 1959 a concrete keep was built for Nagoya castle.[42]
During the Meiji restoration's Shinbutsu bunri, tens of thousands of Japanese Buddhist religious idols and temples were smashed and destroyed.[43][44] Many statues still lie in ruins. Replica temples were rebuilt with concrete. Japan then closed and shut done tens of thousands of traditional old Shinto shrines in the Shrine Consolidation Policy and the Meiji government built the new modern 15 shrines of the Kenmu restoration as a political move to link the Meiji restoration to the Kenmu restoration for their new State Shinto cult.
Japanese had to look at old paintings in order to find out what the Horyuji temple used to look like when they rebuilt it. The rebuilding was originally planned for the Sh?wa era.[45]
The Japanese used mostly concrete in 1934 to rebuild the Togetsukyo Bridge, unlike the original destroyed wooden version of the bridge from 836.[46]
Political reform
Main article: Meiji Constitution
Interior of the Japanese Parliament, showing the Prime Minister speaking addressing the House of Peers, 1915
The idea of a written constitution had been a subject of heated debate within and outside of the government since the beginnings of the Meiji government. The conservative Meiji oligarchy viewed anything resembling democracy or republicanism with suspicion and trepidation, and favored a gradualist approach. The Freedom and People's Rights Movement demanded the immediate establishment of an elected national assembly, and the promulgation of a constitution.
The constitution recognized the need for change and modernization after the removal of the shogunate:
We, the Successor to the prosperous Throne of Our Predecessors, do humbly and solemnly swear to the Imperial Founder of Our House and to Our other Imperial Ancestors that, in pursuance of a great policy co-extensive with the Heavens and with the Earth, We shall maintain and secure from decline the ancient form of government. ... In consideration of the progressive tendency of the course of human affairs and in parallel with the advance of civilization, We deem it expedient, in order to give clearness and distinctness to the instructions bequeathed by the Imperial Founder of Our House and by Our other Imperial Ancestors, to establish fundamental laws. ...
Imperial Japan was founded, de jure, after the 1889 signing of Constitution of the Empire of Japan. The constitution formalized much of the Empire's political structure and gave many responsibilities and powers to the Emperor.
Article 1. The Empire of Japan shall be reigned over and governed by a line of Emperors unbroken for ages eternal.
Article 2. The Imperial Throne shall be succeeded to by Imperial male descendants, according to the provisions of the Imperial House Law.
Article 3. The Emperor is sacred and inviolable.
Article 4. The Emperor is the head of the Empire, combining in Himself the rights of sovereignty, and exercises them, according to the provisions of the present Constitution.
Article 5. The Emperor exercises the legislative power with the consent of the Imperial Diet.
Article 6. The Emperor gives sanction to laws, and orders them to be promulgated and executed.
Article 7. The Emperor convokes the Imperial Diet, opens, closes and prorogues it, and dissolves the House of Representatives.
Article 11. The Emperor has the supreme command of the Army and Navy.[47]
Article 12. The Emperor determines the organization and peace standing of the Army and Navy.
Article 13. The Emperor declares war, makes peace, and concludes treaties.
Article 14. The Emperor declares a state of siege.
Article 15. The Emperor confers titles of nobility, rank, orders and other marks of honor.
Article 16. The Emperor orders amnesty, pardon, commutation of punishments and rehabilitation.
Article 17. A Regency shall be instituted in conformity with the provisions of the Imperial House Law.
In 1890, the Imperial Diet was established in response to the Meiji Constitution. The Diet consisted of the House of Representatives of Japan and the House of Peers. Both houses opened seats for colonial people as well as Japanese. The Imperial Diet continued until 1947.[8]
Economic development
Baron Masuda Tarokaja, a member of the House of Peers (Kazoku). His father, Baron Masuda Takashi, was responsible for transforming Mitsui into a zaibatsu.
Main articles: Economy of the Empire of Japan and Economic history of Japan ??20th century
Economic development was characterized by rapid industrialization, the development of a capitalist economy,[48] and the transformation of many feudal workers to wage labour. The use of strike action also increased, and 1897, with the establishment of a union for metalworkers, the foundations of the modern Japanese trade-union movement were formed.[49]
Samurai were allowed to work in any occupation they wanted. Admission to universities was determined based on examination results. The government also recruited more than 3,000 Westerners to teach modern science, mathematics, technology, and foreign languages in Japan (O-yatoi gaikokujin).[50]  Despite this, social mobility was still low due to samurai and their descendants being overrepresented in the new elite class.[51]
After sending observers to the United States, the Empire of Japan initially copied the decentralized American system with no central bank.[52] In 1871, the New Currency Act of Meiji 4 (1871) abolished the local currencies and established the yen as the new decimal currency. It had parity with the Mexican silver dollar.[53][54]
First Sino-Japanese War
Main articles: First Sino-Japanese War and Taiwan under Japanese rule
The First Sino-Japanese War, fought in 1894 and 1895, revolved around the issue of control and influence over Korea under the rule of the Joseon dynasty. Korea had traditionally been a tributary state of China's Qing Empire, which exerted large influence over the conservative Korean officials who gathered around the royal family of the Joseon kingdom. On February 27, 1876, after several confrontations between Korean isolationists and the Japanese, Japan imposed the Japan-Korea Treaty of 1876, forcing Korea open to Japanese trade. The act blocks any other power from dominating Korea, resolving to end the centuries-old Chinese suzerainty.
On June 4, 1894, Korea requested aid from the Qing Empire in suppressing the Donghak Rebellion. The Qing government sent 2,800 troops to Korea. The Japanese countered by sending an 8,000-troop expeditionary force (the Oshima Composite Brigade) to Korea. The first 400 troops arrived on June 9 en route to Seoul, and 3,000 landed at Incheon on June 12.[55] The Qing government turned down Japan's suggestion for Japan and China to cooperate to reform the Korean government. When Korea demanded that Japan withdraw its troops from Korea, the Japanese refused. In early June 1894, the 8,000 Japanese troops captured the Korean king Gojong, occupied the Royal Palace in Seoul and, by June 25, installed a puppet government in Seoul. The new pro-Japanese Korean government granted Japan the right to expel Qing forces while Japan dispatched more troops to Korea.
China objected and war ensued. Japanese ground troops routed the Chinese forces on the Liaodong Peninsula, and nearly destroyed the Chinese navy in the Battle of the Yalu River. The Treaty of Shimonoseki was signed between Japan and China, which ceded the Liaodong Peninsula and the island of Taiwan to Japan. After the peace treaty, Russia, Germany, and France forced Japan to withdraw from Liaodong Peninsula in the Triple Intervention. Soon afterward, Russia occupied the Liaodong Peninsula, built the Port Arthur fortress, and based the Russian Pacific Fleet in the port. Germany occupied Jiaozhou Bay, built Tsingtao fortress and based the German East Asia Squadron in this port.
Boxer Rebellion
Marquess Komura Jutaro. Komura became Minister for Foreign Affairs under the first Katsura administration, and signed the Boxer Protocol on behalf of Japan.
Main articles: Boxer Rebellion and Boxer Protocol
In 1900, Japan joined an international military coalition set up in response to the Boxer Rebellion in the Qing Empire of China. Japan provided the largest contingent of troops: 20,840, as well as 18 warships. Of the total, 20,300 were Imperial Japanese Army troops of the 5th Infantry Division under Lt. General Yamaguchi Motoomi; the remainder were 540 naval rikusentai (marines) from the Imperial Japanese Navy.[citation needed]
At the beginning of the Boxer Rebellion the Japanese only had 215 troops in northern China stationed at Tientsin; nearly all of them were naval rikusentai from the Kasagi and the Atago, under the command of Captain Shimamura Hayao.[56] The Japanese were able to contribute 52 men to the Seymour Expedition.[56] On June 12, 1900, the advance of the Seymour Expedition was halted some 50 kilometres (30?mi) from the capital, by mixed Boxer and Chinese regular army forces. The vastly outnumbered allies withdrew to the vicinity of Tianjin, having suffered more than 300 casualties.[57] The army general staff in Tokyo had become aware of the worsening conditions in China and had drafted ambitious contingency plans,[58] but in the wake of the Triple Intervention five years before, the government refused to deploy large numbers of troops unless requested by the western powers.[58] However three days later, a provisional force of 1,300 troops commanded by Major General Fukushima Yasumasa was to be deployed to northern China. Fukushima was chosen because he spoke fluent English which enabled him to communicate with the British commander. The force landed near Tianjin on July 5.[58]
On June 17, 1900, naval Rikusentai from the Kasagi and Atago had joined British, Russian, and German sailors to seize the Dagu forts near Tianjin.[58] In light of the precarious situation, the British were compelled to ask Japan for additional reinforcements, as the Japanese had the only readily available forces in the region.[58] Britain at the time was heavily engaged in the Boer War, so a large part of the British army was tied down in South Africa. Further, deploying large numbers of troops from its garrisons in India would take too much time and weaken internal security there.[58] Overriding personal doubts, Foreign Minister Aoki Sh?z? calculated that the advantages of participating in an allied coalition were too attractive to ignore. Prime Minister Yamagata agreed, but others in the cabinet demanded that there be guarantees from the British in return for the risks and costs of the major deployment of Japanese troops.[58] On July 6, 1900, the 5th Infantry Division was alerted for possible deployment to China, but no timetable was set for this. Two days later, with more ground troops urgently needed to lift the siege of the foreign legations at Peking, the British ambassador offered the Japanese government one million British pounds in exchange for Japanese participation.[58]
Shortly afterward, advance units of the 5th Division departed for China, bringing Japanese strength to 3,800 personnel out of the 17,000 of allied forces.[58] The commander of the 5th Division, Lt. General Yamaguchi Motoomi, had taken operational control from Fukushima. Japanese troops were involved in the storming of Tianjin on July 14,[58] after which the allies consolidated and awaited the remainder of the 5th Division and other coalition reinforcements. By the time the siege of legations was lifted on August 14, 1900, the Japanese force of 13,000 was the largest single contingent and made up about 40% of the approximately 33,000 strong allied expeditionary force.[58] Japanese troops involved in the fighting had acquitted themselves well, although a British military observer felt their aggressiveness, densely-packed formations, and over-willingness to attack cost them excessive and disproportionate casualties.[59] For example, during the Tianjin fighting, the Japanese suffered more than half of the allied casualties (400 out of 730) but comprised less than one quarter (3,800) of the force of 17,000.[59] Similarly at Beijing, the Japanese accounted for almost two-thirds of the losses (280 of 453) even though they constituted slightly less than half of the assault force.[59]
After the uprising, Japan and the Western countries signed the Boxer Protocol with China, which permitted them to station troops on Chinese soil to protect their citizens. After the treaty, Russia continued to occupy all of Manchuria.
Russo-Japanese War
French illustration of a Japanese assault on entrenched Russian troops during the Russo-Japanese War
Main article: Russo-Japanese War
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (February 2018)
The Russo-Japanese War was a conflict for control of Korea and parts of Manchuria between the Russian Empire and Empire of Japan that took place from 1904 to 1905. The victory greatly raised Japan's stature in the world of global politics.[60] The war is marked by the Japanese opposition of Russian interests in Korea, Manchuria, and China, notably, the Liaodong Peninsula, controlled by the city of Ryojun.
Originally, in the Treaty of Shimonoseki, Ryojun had been given to Japan. This part of the treaty was overruled by Western powers, which gave the port to the Russian Empire, furthering Russian interests in the region. These interests came into conflict with Japanese interests. The war began with a surprise attack on the Russian Eastern fleet stationed at Port Arthur, which was followed by the Battle of Port Arthur. Those elements that attempted escape were defeated by the Japanese navy under Admiral Togo Heihachiro at the Battle of the Yellow Sea. Following a late start, the Russian Baltic fleet was denied passage through the British-controlled Suez Canal. The fleet arrived on the scene a year later, only to be annihilated in the Battle of Tsushima. While the ground war did not fare as poorly for the Russians, the Japanese forces were significantly more aggressive than their Russian counterparts and gained a political advantage that culminated with the Treaty of Portsmouth, negotiated in the United States by the American president Theodore Roosevelt. As a result, Russia lost the part of Sakhalin Island south of 50 degrees North latitude (which became Karafuto Prefecture), as well as many mineral rights in Manchuria. In addition, Russia's defeat cleared the way for Japan to annex Korea outright in 1910.
Annexation of Korea
Main article: Korea under Japanese rule
In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, various Western countries actively competed for influence, trade, and territory in East Asia, and Japan sought to join these modern colonial powers. The newly modernised Meiji government of Japan turned to Korea (under the Joseon dynasty), then in the sphere of influence of China's Qing dynasty. The Japanese government initially sought to separate Korea from Qing and make Korea a Japanese puppet state in order to further their security and national interests.[61]
In January 1876, following the Meiji Restoration, Japan employed gunboat diplomacy to pressure the Joseon Dynasty into signing the Japan-Korea Treaty of 1876, which granted extraterritorial rights to Japanese citizens and opened three Korean ports to Japanese trade. The rights granted to Japan under this unequal treaty,[62] were similar to those granted western powers in Japan following the visit of Commodore Perry.[62] Japanese involvement in Korea increased during the 1890s, a period of political upheaval.
Korea (under the Korean Empire) was de facto occupied and declared a Japanese protectorate following the Japan-Korea Treaty of 1905. After proclaimed the founding of the Korean Empire, Korea was officially annexed in Japan through the annexation treaty in 1910.
In Korea, the period is usually described as the "Time of Japanese Forced Occupation" (Hangul: ?? ???; Ilje gangjeomgi, Hanja: ?????). Other terms include "Japanese Imperial Period" (Hangul: ????, Ilje sidae, Hanja: ????) or "Japanese administration" (Hangul: ??, Wae jeong, Hanja: ??). In Japan, a more common description is "The Korea of Japanese rule" (?????????, Nippon T?chi-jidai no Ch?sen). The Korean Peninsula was officially part of the Empire of Japan for 35 years, from August 29, 1910, until the formal Japanese rule ended, de jure, on September 2, 1945, upon the surrender of Japan in World War II. The 1905 and 1910 treaties were eventually declared "null and void" by both Japan and South Korea in 1965.
Taish? era (1912-1926)
Emperor Taish?, the 123rd emperor of Japan
Main article: Taish? period
World War I
Main articles: Japan during World War I, Japanese entry into World War I, and Asian and Pacific theatre of World War I
See also: South Seas Mandate
Japan entered World War I on the side of the Allies in 1914, seizing the opportunity of Germany's distraction with the European War to expand its sphere of influence in China and the Pacific. Japan declared war on Germany on August 23, 1914. Japanese and allied British Empire forces soon moved to occupy Tsingtao fortress, the German East Asia Squadron base, German-leased territories in China's Shandong Province as well as the Marianas, Caroline, and Marshall Islands in the Pacific, which were part of German New Guinea. The swift invasion in the German territory of the Kiautschou Bay concession and the Siege of Tsingtao proved successful. The German colonial troops surrendered on November 7, 1914, and Japan gained the German holdings. In 1920, the League of Nations established the South Seas Mandate under Japanese administration to replace German New Guinea.
With its Western allies, notably the United Kingdom, heavily involved in the war in Europe, Japan dispatched a Naval fleet to the Mediterranean Sea to aid Allied shipping. Japan sought further to consolidate its position in China by presenting the Twenty-One Demands to China in January 1915. In the face of slow negotiations with the Chinese government, widespread anti-Japanese sentiment in China, and international condemnation, Japan withdrew the final group of demands, and treaties were signed in May 1915. The Anglo-Japanese Alliance was renewed and expanded in scope twice, in 1905 and 1911, before its demise in 1921. It was officially terminated in 1923.
Siberian Intervention
Commanding Officers and Chiefs of Staff of the Allied Military Mission to Siberia, Vladivostok during the Allied intervention
Main articles: Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War, Siberian Intervention, and Japanese intervention in Siberia
After the fall of the Tsarist regime and the later provisional regime in 1917, the new Bolshevik government signed a separate peace treaty with Germany. After this, various factions that succeeded the Russian Empire fought amongst themselves in a multi-sided civil war.
In July 1918, President Wilson asked the Japanese government to supply 7,000 troops as part of an international coalition of 25,000 troops planned to support the American Expeditionary Force Siberia. Prime Minister Terauchi Masatake agreed to send 12,000 troops but under the Japanese command rather than as part of an international coalition. The Japanese had several hidden motives for the venture, which included an intense hostility and fear of communism; a determination to recoup historical losses to Russia; and the desire to settle the "northern problem" in Japan's security, either through the creation of a buffer state or through outright territorial acquisition.
By November 1918, more than 70,000 Japanese troops under Chief of Staff Yui Mitsue had occupied all ports and major towns in the Russian Maritime Provinces and eastern Siberia. Japan received 765 Polish orphans from Siberia.[63][64]
In June 1920, around 450 Japanese civilians and 350 Japanese soldiers, along with Russian White Army supporters, were massacred by partisan forces associated with the Red Army at Nikolayevsk on the Amur River; the United States and its allied coalition partners consequently withdrew from Vladivostok after the capture and execution of White Army leader Admiral Aleksandr Kolchak by the Red Army. However, the Japanese decided to stay, primarily due to fears of the spread of Communism so close to Japan and Japanese-controlled Korea and Manchuria. The Japanese army provided military support to the Japanese-backed Provisional Priamurye Government based in Vladivostok against the Moscow-backed Far Eastern Republic.
The continued Japanese presence concerned the United States, which suspected that Japan had territorial designs on Siberia and the Russian Far East. Subjected to intense diplomatic pressure by the United States and United Kingdom, and facing increasing domestic opposition due to the economic and human cost, the administration of Prime Minister Kat? Tomosabur? withdrew the Japanese forces in October 1922. Japanese casualties from the expedition were 5,000 dead from combat or illness, with the expedition costing over 900?million yen.
"Taish? Democracy"
Count Itagaki Taisuke is credited as being the first Japanese party leader and an important force for liberalism in Meiji Japan.
The two-party political system that had been developing in Japan since the turn of the century came of age after World War?I, giving rise to the nickname for the period, "Taish? Democracy". The public grew disillusioned with the growing national debt and the new election laws, which retained the old minimum tax qualifications for voters. Calls were raised for universal suffrage and the dismantling of the old political party network. Students, university professors, and journalists, bolstered by labor unions and inspired by a variety of democratic, socialist, communist, anarchist, and other thoughts, mounted large but orderly public demonstrations in favor of universal male suffrage in 1919 and 1920.
On 1 September 1923, at a magnitude of 7.9, an earthquake struck Kant? Plain. The death toll was estimated to have exceeded to 140,000 lives lost. On the same day, the Imperial Japanese Army and its nationalists committed a massacre of Korean residents.
The election of Kat? Komei as Prime Minister of Japan continued democratic reforms that had been advocated by influential individuals on the left. This culminated in the passage of universal male suffrage in March 1925. This bill gave all male subjects over the age of 25 the right to vote, provided they had lived in their electoral districts for at least one year and were not homeless. The electorate thereby increased from 3.3?million to 12.5?million.[65]
In the political milieu of the day, there was a proliferation of new parties, including socialist and communist parties. Fear of a broader electorate, left-wing power, and the growing social change led to the passage of the Peace Preservation Law in 1925, which forbade any change in the political structure or the abolition of private property.
In 1932, Park Chun-kum was elected to the House of Representatives in the Japanese general election as the first person elected from a colonial background.[clarification needed][66] In 1935, democracy was introduced in Taiwan and in response to Taiwanese public opinion, local assemblies were established.[67] In 1942, 38 colonial people were elected to local assemblies of the Japanese homeland.[66]
Unstable coalitions and divisiveness in the Diet led the Kenseikai (??? Constitutional Government Association) and the Seiy? Hont? (???? True Seiy?kai) to merge as the Rikken Minseit? (????? Constitutional Democratic Party) in 1927. The Rikken Minseit? platform was committed to the parliamentary system, democratic politics, and world peace. Thereafter, until 1932, the Seiy?kai and the Rikken Minseit? alternated in power.
Despite the political realignments and hope for more orderly government, domestic economic crises plagued whichever party held power. Fiscal austerity programs and appeals for public support of such conservative government policies as the Peace Preservation Law-including reminders of the moral obligation to make sacrifices for the emperor and the state-were attempted as solutions.
Early Sh?wa (1926-1930)
Emperor Sh?wa during an army inspection on January 8, 1938This section needs expansion with: Article 11 of the Meiji Constitution and how the military had/gained influence in the civilian cabinet. You can help by adding to it.  (April 2021)Main article: Sh?wa period
Rise of militarism and its social organisations
See also: Japanese militarism
Important institutional links existed between the party in government (K?d?ha) and military and political organizations, such as the Imperial Young Federation and the "Political Department" of the Kempeitai. Amongst the himitsu kessha (secret societies), the Kokuryu-kai and Kokka Shakai Shugi Gakumei (National Socialist League) also had close ties to the government. The Tonarigumi (residents committee) groups, the Nation Service Society (national government trade union), and Imperial Farmers Association were all allied as well. Other organizations and groups related with the government in wartime were the Double Leaf Society, Kokuhonsha, Taisei Yokusankai, Imperial Youth Corps, Keishich? (to 1945), Shintoist Rites Research Council, Treaty Faction, Fleet Faction, and Volunteer Fighting Corps.
Nationalism and decline of democracy
Main articles: Japanese nationalism, Statism in Sh?wa Japan, Imperial Way Faction, May 15 Incident, and February 26 Incident
Further information: Imperial Rule Assistance Association
Sadao Araki was an important figurehead and founder of the Army party and the most important militarist thinker in his time. His first ideological works date from his leadership of the K?d?ha (Imperial Benevolent Rule or Action Group), opposed by the T?seiha (Control Group) led by General Kazushige Ugaki. He linked the ancient (bushido code) and contemporary local and European fascist ideals (see Statism in Sh?wa Japan), to form the ideological basis of the movement (Sh?wa nationalism).
Rebel troops assembling at police headquarters during the February 26 Incident
From September 1931, the Japanese were becoming more locked into the course that would lead them into the Second World War, with Araki leading the way. Totalitarianism, militarism, and expansionism were to become the rule, with fewer voices able to speak against it. In a September 23 news conference, Araki first mentioned the philosophy of "K?d?ha" (The Imperial Way Faction). The concept of Kodo linked the Emperor, the people, land, and morality as indivisible. This led to the creation of a "new" Shinto and increased Emperor worship.
On February 26, 1936, a coup d'?tat was attempted (the February 26 Incident). Launched by the ultranationalist K?d?ha faction with the military, it ultimately failed due to the intervention of the Emperor. K?d?ha members were purged from the top military positions and the T?seiha faction gained dominance. However, both factions believed in expansionism, a strong military, and a coming war. Furthermore, K?d?ha members, while removed from the military, still had political influence within the government.
The state was being transformed to serve the Army and the Emperor. Symbolic katana swords came back into fashion as the martial embodiment of these beliefs, and the Nambu pistol became its contemporary equivalent, with the implicit message that the Army doctrine of close combat would prevail. The final objective, as envisioned by Army thinkers such as Sadao Araki and right-wing line followers, was a return to the old Shogunate system, but in the form of a contemporary Military Shogunate. In such a government the Emperor would once more be a figurehead (as in the Edo period). Real power would fall to a leader very similar to a f?hrer or duce, though with the power less nakedly held. On the other hand, the traditionalist Navy militarists defended the Emperor and a constitutional monarchy with a significant religious aspect.
A third point of view was supported by Prince Chichibu, a brother of Emperor Sh?wa, who repeatedly counseled him to implement a direct imperial rule, even if that meant suspending the constitution.[68]
With the launching of the Imperial Rule Assistance Association in 1940 by Prime Minister Fumimaro Konoe, Japan would turn to a form of government that resembled totalitarianism. This unique style of government, very similar to fascism, was known as "Sh?wa Statism".
In the early twentieth century, a distinctive style of architecture was developed for the empire. Now referred to as Imperial Crown Style (????, teikan y?shiki), before the end of World War II, it was originally referred to as Emperor's Crown Amalgamate Style, and sometimes Emperor's Crown Style (???, Teikanshiki). The style is identified by Japanese-style roofing on top of Neoclassical styled buildings; and can have a centrally elevated structure with a pyramidal dome. The prototype for this style was developed by architect Shimoda Kikutaro in his proposal for the Imperial Diet Building (present National Diet Building) in 1920 - although his proposal was ultimately rejected. Outside of the Japanese mainland, in places like Taiwan and Korea, Imperial Crown Style architecture often included regional architectural elements.[69]
Overall, during the 1920s, Japan changed its direction toward a democratic system of government. However, parliamentary government was not rooted deeply enough to withstand the economic and political pressures of the 1930s, during which military leaders became increasingly influential. These shifts in power were made possible by the ambiguity and imprecision of the Meiji Constitution, particularly as regarded the position of the Emperor in relation to the constitution.
Economic factors
A bank run during the Sh?wa financial crisis, March 1927
During the 1920s, the whole global economy was dubbed as "a decade of global uncertainty". At the same time, the zaibatsu trading groups (principally Mitsubishi, Mitsui, Sumitomo, and Yasuda) looked towards great future expansion. Their main concern was a shortage of raw materials. Prime Minister Fumimaro Konoe combined social concerns with the needs of capital, and planned for expansion. Their economic growth was stimulated by certain domestic policies and it can be seen in the steady and progressive increase of materials such as in the iron, steel and chemical industry.[70]
The main goals of Japan's expansionism were acquisition and protection of spheres of influence, maintenance of territorial integrity, acquisition of raw materials, and access to Asian markets. Western nations, notably the United Kingdom, France, and the United States, had for long exhibited great interest in the commercial opportunities in China and other parts of Asia. These opportunities had attracted Western investment because of the availability of raw materials for both domestic production and re-export to Asia. Japan desired these opportunities in planning the development of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.
The Great Depression, just as in many other countries, hindered Japan's economic growth. The Japanese Empire's main problem lay in that rapid industrial expansion had turned the country into a major manufacturing and industrial power that required raw materials; however, these had to be obtained from overseas, as there was a critical lack of natural resources on the home islands.
In the 1920s and 1930s, Japan needed to import raw materials such as iron, rubber, and oil to maintain strong economic growth. Most of these resources came from the United States. The Japanese felt that acquiring resource-rich territories would establish economic self-sufficiency and independence, and they also hoped to jump-start the nation's economy in the midst of the depression. As a result, Japan set its sights on East Asia, specifically Manchuria with its many resources; Japan needed these resources to continue its economic development and maintain national integrity.
Later Sh?wa (1931-1941)
Main articles: Hakk? ichiu, National Spiritual Mobilization Movement, and World War II
Prewar expansionism
Main articles: Japanese nationalism and Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere
Manchuria
Main articles: Mukden Incident, Japanese invasion of Manchuria, and Pacification of Manchukuo
Japanese troops entering Shenyang, Northeast China during the Mukden Incident, 1931
In 1931, Japan invaded and conquered Northeast China (Manchuria) with little resistance. Japan claimed that this invasion was a liberation of the local Manchus from the Chinese, although the majority of the population were Han Chinese as a result of the large scale settlement of Chinese in Manchuria in the 19th century. Japan then established a puppet state called Manchukuo (Chinese: ???), and installed the last Manchu Emperor of China, Puyi, as the official head of state. Rehe, a Chinese territory bordering Manchukuo, was later also taken in 1933. This puppet regime had to carry on a protracted pacification campaign against the Anti-Japanese Volunteer Armies in Manchuria. In 1936, Japan created a similar Mongolian puppet state in Inner Mongolia named Mengjiang (Chinese: ??), which was also predominantly Chinese as a result of recent Han immigration to the area. At that time, East Asians were banned from immigration to North America and Australia, but the newly established Manchukuo was open to immigration of Asians. Japan had an emigration plan to encourage colonization; the Japanese population in Manchuria subsequently grew to 850,000.[71] With rich natural resources and labor force in Manchuria, army-owned corporations turned Manchuria into a solid material support machine of the Japanese Army.[72]
Second Sino-Japanese War
Main article: Second Sino-Japanese War
The Japanese occupation of Peiping (Beijing) in China, on August 13, 1937. Japanese troops are shown passing from Peiping into the Tartar City through Zhengyangmen, the main gate leading onward to the palaces in the Forbidden City.
Japan invaded China proper in 1937, beginning a war against both Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalists and also the Communists of Mao Zedong's united front. On December 13 of that same year, the Nationalist capital of Nanjing surrendered to Japanese troops. In the event known as the "Nanjing Massacre", Japanese troops killed many tens-of-thousands of people associated with the defending garrison. It is estimated that as many as 200,000 to 300,000 including civilians, may have been killed, although the actual numbers are uncertain and possibly inflated-coupled with the fact that the government of the People's Republic of China has never undertaken a full accounting of the massacre. In total, an estimated 20?million Chinese, mostly civilians, were killed during World War II. A puppet state was also set up in China quickly afterwards, headed by Wang Jingwei. The Second Sino-Japanese War continued into World War II with the Communists and Nationalists in a temporary and uneasy nominal alliance against the Japanese.
Clashes with the Soviet Union
Main articles: Battle of Lake Khasan, Battles of Khalkhin Gol, and Soviet-Japanese Neutrality Pact
In 1938, the Japanese 19th Division entered territory claimed by the Soviet Union, leading to the Battle of Lake Khasan. This incursion was founded in the Japanese belief that the Soviet Union misinterpreted the demarcation of the boundary, as stipulated in the Treaty of Peking, between Imperial Russia and Manchu China (and subsequent supplementary agreements on demarcation), and furthermore, that the demarcation markers were tampered with.
On May 11, 1939, in the Nomonhan Incident (Battle of Khalkhin Gol), a Mongolian cavalry unit of some 70 to 90 men entered the disputed area in search of grazing for their horses, and encountered Manchukuoan cavalry, who drove them out. Two days later the Mongolian force returned and the Manchukoans were unable to evict them.
The IJA 23rd Division and other units of the Kwantung Army then became involved. Joseph Stalin ordered Stavka, the Red Army's high command, to develop a plan for a counterstrike against the Japanese. In late August, Georgy Zhukov employed encircling tactics that made skillful use of superior artillery, armor, and air forces; this offensive nearly annihilated the 23rd Division and decimated the IJA 7th Division. On September 15 an armistice was arranged. Nearly two years later, on April 13, 1941, the parties signed a Neutrality Pact, in which the Soviet Union pledged to respect the territorial integrity and inviolability of Manchukuo, while Japan agreed similarly for the Mongolian People's Republic.
Tripartite Pact
Main articles: Tripartite Pact and Axis powers
Signing ceremony for the Tripartite Pact, September 27, 1940 in Berlin, Nazi Germany
In 1938, Japan prohibited the expulsion of the Jews in Japan, Manchuria, and China in accordance with the spirit of racial equality on which Japan had insisted for many years.[73][74]
The Second Sino-Japanese War had seen tensions rise between Imperial Japan and the United States; events such as the Panay incident and the Nanjing Massacre turned American public opinion against Japan. With the occupation of French Indochina in the years of 1940-41, and with the continuing war in China, the United States and its allies placed embargoes on Japan of strategic materials such as scrap metal and oil, which were vitally needed for the war effort. The Japanese were faced with the option of either withdrawing from China and losing face or seizing and securing new sources of raw materials in the resource-rich, European-controlled colonies of Southeast Asia-specifically British Malaya and the Dutch East Indies (modern-day Indonesia).
On September 27, 1940, Japan signed the Tripartite Pact with Germany and Italy. Their objectives were to "establish and maintain a new order of things" in their respective world regions and spheres of influence, with Germany and Italy in Europe, and Japan in Asia. The signatories of this alliance became known as the Axis Powers. The pact also called for mutual protection-if any one of the member powers was attacked by a country not already at war, excluding the Soviet Union and for technological and economic cooperation between the signatories.
For the sake of their own people and nation, Prime Minister Konoe formed the Taisei Yokusankai (Imperial Rule Assistance Association) on October 12, 1940, as a ruling party in Japan.
In 1940 Japan celebrated the 2600th anniversary of Jimmu's ascension and built a monument to Hakk? ichiu despite the fact that all historians knew Jimmu was a made up figure. In 1941 the Japanese government charged the one historian who dared to challenge Jimmu's existence publicly, Tsuda Sokichi.[75] During the Second Sino-Japanese War and the Second World War, the firm Iwanami Shoten was repeatedly censored because of its positions against the war and the Emperor. Shigeo Iwanami was even sentenced to two months in prison for the publication of the banned works of Tsuda S?kichi (a sentence which he did not serve, however). Shortly before his death in 1946, he founded the newspaper Sekai, which had a great influence in post-war Japanese intellectual circles.[76] The early 20th century historian Tsuda S?kichi, who put forward the then-controversial theory that the Kojiki's accounts were not based on history (as Edo period kokugaku and State Shinto ideology believed them to be) but rather propagandistic myths concocted to explain and legitimize the rule of the imperial (Yamato) dynasty, also saw Susanoo as a negative figure, arguing that he was created to serve as the rebellious opposite of the imperial ancestress Amaterasu.[77] A historian in 20th century, Sokichi Tsuda's view of history, which has become mainstream after the World War II, is based on his idea. Many scholars today also believe that the mythology of Takamagahara in Kojiki was created by the ruling class to make people believe that the class was precious because they originated in the heavenly realm.[78][79]
World War II (1941-1945)
Main articles: Japan during World War II and Pacific War
Map of Japanese conquests from 1937 to 1942
On November 5, 1941, Yamamoto in his "Top Secret Operation Order no. 1" issued to the Combined Fleet, the Empire of Japan must drive out Britain and America from Greater East Asia and to hasten the settlement of the China, whereas should the eventuality that Britain and America would really be driven out from the Philippines and Dutch East Indies, an independent, self-supporting economic entity will be firmly established - mirroring the principle of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere in another personification.[80]
Facing an oil embargo by the United States as well as dwindling domestic reserves, the Japanese government decided to execute a plan developed by Isoroku Yamamoto to attack the United States Pacific Fleet in Hawaii. While the United States was neutral and continued negotiating with Japan for possible peace in Asia, the Imperial Japanese Navy at the same time made its surprise attack on Pearl Harbor in Honolulu on December 7, 1941. As a result, the U.S. battleship fleet was decimated and almost 2,500 people died in the attack that day. The primary objective of the attack was to incapacitate the United States long enough for Japan to establish its long-planned South East Asian empire and defensible buffer zones. The American public saw the attack as barbaric and treacherous and rallied against the Japanese. Four days later, Adolf Hitler of Germany, and Benito Mussolini of Italy declared war on the United States, merging the separate conflicts. The United States entered the European Theatre and Pacific Theater in full force, thereby bringing the United States to World War II on the side of the Allies. 
Even as they launched the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, the Japanese were well aware that the United States had the capability to mount a counter-offensive against them. However, they believed that they could maintain their defensive perimeter and push back any attempt by the British and Americans that could incur enough losses to make the Allied forces consider making peace on the basis of Japan's retainment of the territories she had gained.[81]
Japanese conquests
Victorious Japanese troops marching through the city center of Singapore following the city's capture in February 1942
Following the attack on Pearl Harbor, the Japanese launched offensives against Allied forces in East and Southeast Asia, with simultaneous attacks in British Hong Kong, British Malaya and the Philippines. Hong Kong surrendered to the Japanese on December 25. In Malaya the Japanese overwhelmed an Allied army composed of British, Indian, Australian and Malay forces. The Japanese were quickly able to advance down the Malayan Peninsula, forcing the Allied forces to retreat towards Singapore. The Allies lacked aircover and tanks; the Japanese had complete air superiority. The sinking of HMS Prince of Wales and HMS Repulse on December 10, 1941, led to the east coast of Malaya being exposed to Japanese landings and the elimination of British naval power in the area. By the end of January 1942, the last Allied forces crossed the strait of Johore and into Singapore.
On January 11, 1942, a Japanese submarine shelled the United States naval Station at Pago Pago in Samoa, suggesting that the Japanese were advancing to the direction of Australia and nearby Oceanic regions.[82]
In the Philippines, the Japanese pushed the combined American-Filipino force towards the Bataan Peninsula and later the island of Corregidor. By January 1942, General Douglas MacArthur and President Manuel L. Quezon were forced to flee in the face of Japanese advance. This marked one of the worst defeats suffered by the Americans, leaving over 70,000 American and Filipino prisoners of war in the custody of the Japanese. On February 15, 1942, Singapore, due to the overwhelming superiority of Japanese forces and encirclement tactics, fell to the Japanese, causing the largest surrender of British-led military personnel in history. An estimated 80,000 Australian, British and Indian troops were taken as prisoners of war, joining 50,000 taken in the Japanese invasion of Malaya (modern day Malaysia). The Japanese then seized the key oil production zones of Borneo, Central Java, Malang, Cebu, Sumatra, and Dutch New Guinea of the late Dutch East Indies, defeating the Dutch forces.[83] However, Allied sabotage had made it difficult for the Japanese to restore oil production to its pre-war peak.[84] The Japanese then consolidated their lines of supply through capturing key islands of the Pacific, including Guadalcanal.
Tide turns
A model representing the attack by dive bombers from USS?Yorktown and USS?Enterprise on the Japanese aircraft carriers S?ry?, Akagi and Kaga in the morning of June 4, 1942, during the Battle of Midway
Japanese military strategists were keenly aware of the unfavorable discrepancy between the industrial potential of Japan and the United States. Because of this they reasoned that Japanese success hinged on their ability to extend the strategic advantage gained at Pearl Harbor with additional rapid strategic victories. The Japanese Command reasoned that only decisive destruction of the United States' Pacific Fleet and conquest of its remote outposts would ensure that the Japanese Empire would not be overwhelmed by America's industrial might.
In April 1942, Japan was bombed for the first time in the Doolittle Raid. During the same month, after the Japanese victory in the Battle of Bataan, the Bataan Death March was conducted, where 5,650 to 18,000 Filipinos died under the rule of the imperial army.[85] In May 1942, failure to decisively defeat the Allies at the Battle of the Coral Sea, in spite of Japanese numerical superiority, equated to a strategic defeat for the Japanese. This setback was followed in June 1942 by the catastrophic loss of four fleet carriers at the Battle of Midway, the first decisive defeat for the Imperial Japanese Navy. It proved to be the turning point of the war as the Navy lost its offensive strategic capability and never managed to reconstruct the "'critical mass' of both large numbers of carriers and well-trained air groups".[86]
Australian land forces defeated Japanese Marines in New Guinea at the Battle of Milne Bay in September 1942, which was the first land defeat suffered by the Japanese in the Pacific. Further victories by the Allies at Guadalcanal in September 1942 and New Guinea in 1943 put the Empire of Japan on the defensive for the remainder of the war, with Guadalcanal in particular sapping their already-limited oil supplies.[84] During 1943 and 1944, Allied forces, backed by the industrial might and vast raw material resources of the United States, advanced steadily towards Japan. The Sixth United States Army, led by General MacArthur, landed on Leyte on October 20, 1944. The Palawan massacre was committed by the imperial army against Filipinos in December 1944.[87] In the subsequent months, during the Philippines campaign (1944-45), the Allies, including the combined United States forces together with the native guerrilla units, recaptured the Philippines.
Surrender
Main articles: Surrender of Japan, Potsdam Declaration, and Victory over Japan Day
The rebuilt battlecruiser Haruna sank at her moorings in the naval base of Kure on July 24 during a series of bombings.
By 1944, the Allies had seized or bypassed and neutralized many of Japan's strategic bases through amphibious landings and bombardment. This, coupled with the losses inflicted by Allied submarines on Japanese shipping routes, began to strangle Japan's economy and undermine its ability to supply its army. By early 1945, the US Marines had wrested control of the Ogasawara Islands in several hard-fought battles such as the Battle of Iwo Jima, marking the beginning of the fall of the islands of Japan. After securing airfields in Saipan and Guam in the summer of 1944, the United States Army Air Forces conducted an intense strategic bombing campaign by having B-29 Superfortress bombers in nighttime low altitude incendiary raids, burning Japanese cities in an effort to pulverize Japan's war industry and shatter its morale. The Operation Meetinghouse raid on Tokyo on the night of March 9-10, 1945, led to the deaths of approximately 120,000 civilians. Approximately 350,000-500,000 civilians died in 67 Japanese cities as a result of the incendiary bombing campaign on Japan. Concurrent with these attacks, Japan's vital coastal shipping operations were severely hampered with extensive aerial mining by the US's Operation Starvation. Regardless, these efforts did not succeed in persuading the Japanese military to surrender. In mid-August 1945, the United States dropped nuclear weapons on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. These bombings were the first and only combat use of nuclear weaponry. These two bombs killed approximately 120,000 people in a matter of seconds, and as many as a result of nuclear radiation in the following weeks, months and years. The bombs killed as many as 140,000 people in Hiroshima and 80,000 in Nagasaki by the end of 1945.
At the Yalta agreement, the US, the UK, and the USSR had agreed that the USSR would enter the war on Japan within three months of the defeat of Germany in Europe. This Soviet-Japanese War led to the fall of Japan's Manchurian occupation, Soviet occupation of South Sakhalin island, and a real, imminent threat of Soviet invasion of the home islands of Japan. This was a significant factor for some internal parties in the Japanese decision to surrender to the US[88] and gain some protection, rather than face simultaneous Soviet invasion as well as defeat by the US and its allies. Likewise, the superior numbers of the armies of the Soviet Union in Europe was a factor in the US decision to demonstrate the use of atomic weapons to the USSR,[citation needed] just as the Allied victory in Europe was evolving into the division of Germany and Berlin, the division of Europe with the Iron Curtain and the subsequent Cold War.
Having ignored (mokusatsu) the Potsdam Declaration, the Empire of Japan surrendered and ended World War II after the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the declaration of war by the Soviet Union and subsequent invasion of Manchuria and other territories. In a national radio address on August 15, Emperor Hirohito announced the surrender to the Japanese people by Gyokuon-h?s?.
End of the Empire of Japan
Occupation of Japan
Main article: Occupation of Japan
A drawing depicting a speech in the Imperial Japanese Diet on November 1, 1945, following the end of the Second World War. In the foreground are several Allied soldiers watching the proceedings from the back of the balcony.
A period known as occupied Japan followed after the war, largely spearheaded by US Army General Douglas MacArthur to revise the Japanese constitution and de-militarize the nation. The Allied occupation, including concurrent economic and political assistance, continued until 1952. Allied forces ordered Japan to abolish the Meiji Constitution and enforce the 1947 Constitution of Japan. This new constitution was imposed by the United States under the supervision of MacArthur. MacArthur included Article 9 which changed Japan into a pacifist country.[89]
Upon adoption of the 1947 constitution, the Empire of Japan dissolved and became simply the state of Japan, and all the territories such as Taiwan, Korea, Karafuto, and Kwantung were lost. Japan was reduced to the territories that were traditionally within the Japanese cultural sphere pre-1895: the four main islands (Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu, and Shikoku), the Ryukyu Islands, and the Nanp? Islands. The Kuril Islands also historically belonged to Japan[90] and were first inhabited by the Ainu people before coming under the control of the Matsumae clan during the Edo Period.[91] However, the Kuril Islands were not included due to a dispute with the Soviet Union.[8]
Japan adopted a parliamentary-based political system, and the role of the Emperor became symbolic. The US occupation forces were fully responsible for protecting Japan from external threats. Japan only had a minor police force for domestic security. Japan was under the sole control of the United States. This was the only time in Japanese history that it was occupied by a foreign power.[92]
General MacArthur later commended the new Japanese government that he helped establish and the new Japanese period when he was about to send the American forces to the Korean War:
The Japanese people, since the war, have undergone the greatest reformation recorded in modern history. With a commendable will, eagerness to learn, and marked capacity to understand, they have, from the ashes left in war's wake, erected in Japan an edifice dedicated to the supremacy of individual liberty and personal dignity; and in the ensuing process there has been created a truly representative government committed to the advance of political morality, freedom of economic enterprise, and social justice. Politically, economically, and socially Japan is now abreast of many free nations of the earth and will not again fail the universal trust. ... I sent all four of our occupation divisions to the Korean battlefront without the slightest qualms as to the effect of the resulting power vacuum upon Japan. The results fully justified my faith. I know of no nation more serene, orderly, and industrious, nor in which higher hopes can be entertained for future constructive service in the advance of the human race.
For historian John W. Dower:
In retrospect, apart from the military officer corps, the purge of alleged militarists and ultranationalists that was conducted under the Occupation had relatively small impact on the long-term composition of men of influence in the public and private sectors. The purge initially brought new blood into the political parties, but this was offset by the return of huge numbers of formerly purged conservative politicians to national as well as local politics in the early 1950s. In the bureaucracy, the purge was negligible from the outset. ... In the economic sector, the purge similarly was only mildly disruptive, affecting less than sixteen hundred individuals spread among some four hundred companies. Everywhere one looks, the corridors of power in postwar Japan are crowded with men whose talents had already been recognized during the war years, and who found the same talents highly prized in the 'new' Japan.[93]
Influential personnel
Main article: List of Japanese government and military commanders of World War II
Political
In the administration of Japan dominated by the military political movement during World War II, the civil central government was under the management of military men and their right-wing civilian allies, along with members of the nobility and Imperial Family. The Emperor was in the center of this power structure as supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Imperial Armed Forces and head of state.
Early period:
HIH Prince Kitashirakawa Yoshihisa
HIH Prince Kitashirakawa Naruhisa
HIH Prince Komatsu Akihito
HIH Marquess Michitsune Koga
Prince Yamagata Aritomo
Prince It? Hirobumi
Prince Katsura Tar?
World War II:
Prince Fumimaro Konoe
K?ki Hirota
Hideki Tojo
Prince It? Hirobumi
His Imperial Highness Prince Kitashirakawa Naruhisa, the 3rd head of a collateral branch of the Japanese Imperial Family
His Imperial Highness Marquess Michitsune Koga, a member of the Imperial Family, descending from Emperor Murakami. He was the former Governor of Tokyo Prefecture.
His Imperial Highness Count Nagayoshi Ogasawara, a member of the Imperial Family
Diplomats
Early period
Marquess Komura Jutar?: Boxer Protocol & the Treaty of Portsmouth
Count Mutsu Munemitsu: Treaty of Shimonoseki
Count Hayashi Tadasu: Anglo-Japanese Alliance
Count Kaneko Kentar?: envoy to the United States
Viscount Aoki Sh?z?: Foreign Minister of Japan, Anglo-Japanese Treaty of Commerce and Navigation
Viscount Torii Tadafumi: Vice Consul to the Kingdom of Hawaii
Viscount Ishii Kikujiro: Lansing-Ishii Agreement
World War II
Baron Hiroshi ?shima: Japanese ambassador to Nazi Germany
Military
Main article: Armed Forces of the Empire of Japan
From left to right: Marshal Admiral Heihachir? T?g? (1848-1934), Field Marshal Oku Yasukata (1847-1930), Marshal Admiral Yoshika Inoue (1845-1929) and Field Marshal Kageaki Kawamura (1850-1926), at the unveiling ceremony of the bronze statue of Field Marshal Iwao ?yama
The Empire of Japan's military was divided into two main branches: the Imperial Japanese Army and the Imperial Japanese Navy. To coordinate operations, the Imperial General Headquarters, headed by the Emperor, was established in 1893. Prominent generals and leaders:
Imperial Japanese Army
Early period
Field Marshal Prince Yamagata Aritomo: Chief of Staff of the Army, Prime Minister of Japan, Founder of the IJA
Field Marshal Prince ?yama Iwao: Chief of Staff of the Army
Field Marshal Prince Komatsu Akihito: Chief of Staff of the Army
Field Marshal Marquis Nozu Michitsura:
General Count Nogi Maresuke: Governor of Taiwan
General Count Akiyama Yoshifuru: Chief of Staff of the Army
General Count Kuroki Tamemoto
General Count Nagaoka Gaishi
Lieutenant General Baron ?shima Ken'ichi: Chief of Staff of the Army, Minister of War during World War I
General Viscount Kodama Gentar?: Chief of Staff of the Army, Governor of Taiwan
World War II
Field Marshal Prince Kotohito Kan'in: Chief of Staff of the Army
Field Marshal Hajime Sugiyama: Chief of Staff of the Army
General Senj?r? Hayashi: Chief of Staff of the Army, Prime Minister of Japan
General Hideki T?j?: Prime Minister of Japan
General Yoshijir? Umezu: Chief of Staff of the Army
Imperial Japanese Navy
Early period
Marshal Admiral Prince Higashifushimi Yorihito (1867-1922)
Marshal Admiral Marquess T?g? Heihachir? (1847-1934), Battle of Tsushima
Marshal Admiral Count It? Sukeyuki (1843-1914)
Admiral Count Kawamura Sumiyoshi (1836-1904)
Marshal Admiral Viscount Inoue Yoshika (1845-1929)
Marshal Admiral Baron Ijuin Gor? (1852-1921)
Marshal Admiral Baron Kat? Tomosabur? (1861-1923)
Admiral Baron Akamatsu Noriyoshi (1841-1920)
Vice Admiral Akiyama Saneyuki (1868-1918), Battle of Tsushima
World War II
Marshal Admiral Mineichi Koga (1885-1944)
Marshal Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto (1884-1943), attack on Pearl Harbor, Battle of Midway
Marshal Admiral Osami Nagano (1880-1947)
Admiral Ch?ichi Nagumo (1887-1944), attack on Pearl Harbor, Battle of Midway[94]
Rear Admiral Viscount Morio Matsudaira (1878-1944)
Demographics
Main article: Demography of the Empire of Japan
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (September 2021)
Population density map of the naichi (1920)
Population density map of the naichi (1940)
Economy
Main article: Economy of the Empire of Japan
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (May 2021)
Education
Main article: Education in the Empire of Japan
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (May 2021)
Notable scholars/scientists
19th century
Hirase Sakugor? (1856-1925) was a botanist, who won the Imperial Prize in 1912.
?tsuki Fumihiko (1847-1928), editor of two well-known Japanese-language dictionaries, Genkai (??, "sea of words", 1891) and its successor Daigenkai (???, "great sea of words", 1932-1937)
Baron Keisuke Ito (1803-1901) was a biologist and a professor at the Imperial University in Tokyo (University of Tokyo).
Kiyoo Wadati (1902-1995) was a seismologist, who won the Imperial Prize in 1932.
Teiji Takagi (1875-1960) was a mathematician who made seminal contributions to class field theory, and a member of the selection committee for the first Fields Medal.
Anthropologists, ethnologists, archaeologists, and historians
?tsuki Fumihiko (1847-1928)
Yusuke Hashiba (1851-1921)
Koganei Yoshikiyo (1859-1944)
Nait? Torajir? (1866-1934)
In? Kanori (1867-1925)
Torii Ry?z? (1870-1953)
Fujioka Katsuji (1872-1935)
Masaharu Anesaki (1873-1949)
Kunio Yanagita (1875-1962)
Ushinosuke Mori (1877-1926)
Ry?saku Tsunoda (1877-1964)
K?saku Hamada (1881-1938)
 Ky?suke Kindaichi (1882-1971)
Tetsuji Morohashi (1883-1982)
Tsuruko Haraguchi (1886-1915)
Shinobu Orikuchi (1887-1953)
Zench? Nakahara (1890-1964)
Medical scientists, biologists, evolutionary theorists, and geneticists
Keisuke Ito (1803-1901)
Kusumoto Ine (1827-1903)
Nagayo Sensai (1838-1902)
Tanaka Yoshio (1838-1916)
Nagai Nagayoshi (1844-1929)
Miyake Hiizu (1848-1938)
Takaki Kanehiro (1849-1920)
Kitasato Shibasabur? (1853-1931)
 Hirase Sakugor? (1856-1925)
Jinz? Matsumura (1856-1928)
Juntaro takahashi (1856-1920)
Aoyama Tanemichi (1859-1917)
Yoichir? Hirase (1859-1925)
Ishikawa Chiyomatsu (1861-1935)
Tomitaro Makino (1862-1957)
Yamagiwa Katsusabur? (1863-1930)
 Yu Fujikawa (1865-1940)
Fujiro Katsurada (1867-1946)
Kamakichi Kishinouye (1867-1929)
Yasuyoshi Shirasawa (1868-1947)
Takuji Iwasaki (1869-1937)
Kiyoshi Shiga (1871-1957)
Heijiro Nakayama (1871-1956)
 Sunao Tawara (1873-1952)
Bunz? Hayata (1874-1934)
 Ryukichi Inada (1874-1950)
Kensuke Mitsuda (1876-1964)
 Hideyo Noguchi (1876-1928)
Fukushi Masaichi (1878-1956)
 Takaoki Sasaki (1878-1966)
 Gennosuke Fuse (1880-1946)
Kono Yasui (1880-1971)
Hakaru Hashimoto (1881-1934)
Ichiro Miyake (1881-1964)
Kunihiko Hashida (1882-1945)
Takenoshin Nakai (1882-1952)
Kyusaku Ogino (1882-1975)
Gen-ichi Koidzumi (1883-1953)
Makoto Nishimura (1883-1956)
Shintar? Hirase (1884-1939)
Tamezo Mori (1884-1962)
Kanesuke Hara (1885-1962)
Ch?zabur? Tanaka (1885-1976)
Michiyo Tsujimura (1888-1969)
Yaichir? Okada (1892-1976)
Ikuro Takahashi (1892-1981)
 Hitoshi Kihara (1893-1986)
Satyu Yamaguti (1894-1976)
Kinichiro Sakaguchi (1897-1994)
Minoru Shirota (1899-1982)
Genkei Masamune (1899-1993)
Inventors, industrialists, engineers
Tanaka Hisashige (1799-1881)
?shima Takat? (1826-1901)
Yamao Y?z? (1837-1917)
Murata Tsuneyoshi (1838-1921)
Masuda Takashi (1848-1938)
Sas? Sach? (1852-1905)
Arisaka Nariakira (1852-1915)
Furuichi K?i (1854-1934)
Hirai Seijir? (1856-1926)
Dan Takuma (1858-1932)
Mikimoto K?kichi (1858-1954)
Shimose Masachika (1860-1911)
Kotaro Shimomura (1861-1937)
Ch?hachi Ninomiya (1866-1936)
Sakichi Toyoda (1867-1930)
Kijir? Nambu (1869-1949)
Namihei Odaira (1874-1951)
Jujiro Matsuda (1875-1952)
Masuda Tarokaja (1875-1953)
Ry?ichi Yazu (1878-1908)
Yoshisuke Aikawa (1880-1967)
Noritsugu Hayakawa (1881-1942)
Miekichi Suzuki (1882-1936)
Chikuhei Nakajima (1884-1949)
Hidetsugu Yagi (1886-1976)
Michio Suzuki (1887-1982)
 Yasujiro Niwa (1893-1975)
Tokuji Hayakawa (1893-1980)
K?nosuke Matsushita (1894-1989)
 Kinjiro Okabe (1896-1984)
Toshiwo Doko (1896-1988)
Kenjiro Takayanagi (1899-1990)
Philosophers, educators, mathematicians, and polymaths
Inoue Enry? (1799-1881)
Nishimura Shigeki (1828-1902)
Nishi Amane (1829-1897)
Kikuchi Dairoku (1855-1917)
H?j? Tokiyuki (1858-1929)
Rikitaro Fujisawa (1861-1933)
Mitsutaro Shirai (1863-1932)
Nitobe Inaz? (1862-1933)
Paul Tsuchihashi (1866-1965)
Kintar? Okamura (1867-1935)
Totsud? Kat? (1870-1949)
Tsuruichi Hayashi (1873-1935)
Yoshio Mikami (1875-1950)
Teiji Takagi (1875-1960)
Matsusaburo Fujiwara (1881-1946)
Yoshishige Abe (1883-1966)
 S?ichi Kakeya (1886-1947)
Chemists, physicists, and geologists
J?kichi Takamine (1854-1922)
Yamakawa Kenjir? (1854-1931)
Sekiya Seikei (1855-1896)
Tanakadate Aikitsu (1856-1952)
Kikunae Ikeda (1864-1936)
Masataka Ogawa (1865-1930)
Hantaro Nagaoka (1865-1950)
Fusakichi Omori (1868-1923)
Shin Hirayama (1868-1945)
 Hisashi Kimura (1870-1943)
Akitsune Imamura (1870-1948)
Kotaro Honda (1870-1954)
Harutaro Murakami (1872-1947)
Shinzo Shinjo (1873-1938)
Umetaro Suzuki (1874-1943)
Kiyotsugu Hirayama (1874-1943)
 Suekichi Kinoshita (1877-1935)
 Torahiko Terada (1878-1935)
Masatoshi ?k?chi (1878-1952)
Keiichi Aichi (1880-1923)
 Jun Ishiwara (1881-1947)
 Yasuhiko Asahina (1881-1975)
Satoyasu Iimori (1885-1982)
Akira Ogata (1887-1978)
Yoshio Nishina (1890-1951)
 Tokushichi Mishima (1893-1975)
Masuzo Shikata (1895-1964)
 Hakaru Masumoto (1895-1987)
Okuro Oikawa (1896-1970)
 Ozawa Yoshiaki (1899-1929)
20th century
Mako
Yoji Ito
Satosi Watanabe
Seiji Naruse
Takeo Doi
Tatsuo Hasegawa
Kiro Honjo
Jiro Horikoshi
Hideo Itokawa
Soichiro Honda
Yanosuke Hirai
Katsuji Miyazaki
Shinroku Momose
Ryoichi Nakagawa
Jiro Tanaka
Noriaki Fukuyama
Eizaburo Nishibori
Shin'ichir? Tomonaga
Kiyoo Wadati
Shokichi Iyanaga
Hideki Yukawa
Takeo Hatanaka
Kazuo Kubokawa
Tomizo Yoshida
Kiyosi It?
Shoichi Sakata
Yutaka Taniyama
K?di Husimi
Seishi Kikuchi
Taketani Mitsuo
Takahiko Yamanouchi
Shigeyoshi Matsumae
Shigeo Shingo
Nobuchika Sugimura
Jisaburo Ohwi
Yo Takenaka
Sanshi Imai
Kikutaro Baba
Katsuzo Kuronuma
Yasunori Miyoshi
Katsuma Dan
Hiroshi Nakamura
Ukichiro Nakaya
Yusuke Hagihara
Isao Imai
Shintaro Uda
Kinjiro Okabe
Ozawa Yoshiaki
Issaku Koga
Yuzuru Hiraga
Jiro Horikoshi
Yoshiro Okabe
Motonori Matuyama
Masauji Hachisuka
Tokubei Kuroda
Hikosaka Tadayoshi
Bunsaku Arakatsu
Shinji Maejima
Takahito, Prince Mikasa
Toshihiko Izutsu
Kawachi Yoshihiro
Katsutada Sezawa
Katsura Kotaro
Timeline
1926: Emperor Taish? dies (December 25).
1927: Tanaka Giichi becomes prime minister (April 20).
1928: Emperor Sh?wa is formally installed as emperor (November 10).
1929: Osachi Hamaguchi becomes prime minister (July 2).
1930: Hamaguchi is wounded in an assassination attempt (November 14).
1931: Hamaguchi dies and Wakatsuki Reijir? becomes prime minister (April 14). Japan occupies Manchuria after the Mukden Incident (September 18). Inukai Tsuyoshi becomes prime minister (December 13) and increases funding for the military in China.
1932: After an attack on Japanese monks in Shanghai (January 18), Japanese forces shell the city (January 29). Manchukuo is established with Henry Pu Yi as emperor (February 29). Inukai is assassinated during a coup attempt and Sait? Makoto becomes prime minister (May 15). Japan is censured by the League of Nations (December 7).
1933: Japan leaves the League of Nations (March 27).
1934: Keisuke Okada becomes prime minister (July 8). Japan withdraws from the Washington Naval Treaty (December 29).
1936: Coup attempt (February 26 Incident). K?ki Hirota becomes prime minister (March 9). Japan signs its first pact with Germany (November 25) and reoccupies Tsingtao (December 3). Mengjiang established in Inner Mongolia.
1937: Senj?r? Hayashi becomes prime minister (February 2). Prince Fumimaro Konoe becomes prime minister (June 4). Battle of Lugou Bridge (July 7). Japan captures Beijing (July 31). Japanese troops occupy Nanjing (December 13), beginning the Nanjing Massacre.
1938: Battle of Taierzhuang (March 24). Canton falls to Japanese forces (October 21).
1939: Hiranuma Kiichir? becomes prime minister (January 5). Abe Nobuyuki becomes prime minister (August 30).
1940: Mitsumasa Yonai becomes prime minister (January 16). Konoe becomes prime minister for a second term (July 22). Hundred Regiments Offensive (August-September). Japan occupies French Indochina in the wake of the fall of Paris, and signs the Tripartite Pact (September 27).
1941: General Hideki Tojo becomes prime minister (October 18). Japanese naval forces attack Pearl Harbor, Hawaii (December 7), prompting the United States to declare war on Japan (December 8). Japan conquers Hong Kong (December 25).
1942: Battle of Ambon (January 30 - February 3). Battle of Palembang (February 13-15). Singapore surrenders to Japan (February 15). Japan bombs Australia (February 19). Indian Ocean raid (March 31 - April 10). Doolittle Raid on Tokyo (April 18). Battle of the Coral Sea (May 4-8). U.S. and Filipino forces in the Battle of the Philippines (1942) surrender (May 8). Allied victory at the Battle of Midway (June 6). Allied victory in the Battle of Milne Bay (September 5). Battle of the Santa Cruz Islands (October 25-27).
1943: Allied victory in the Battle of Guadalcanal (February 9). Allied victory at the Battle of Tarawa (November 23).
1944: Tojo resigns and Kuniaki Koiso becomes prime minister (July 22). Battle of Leyte Gulf (October 23-26).
1945: Allied bombers begin firebombing of major Japanese cities. Allied victory at the Battle of Iwo Jima (March 26). Admiral Kantar? Suzuki becomes prime minister (April 7). Allied victory at the Battle of Okinawa (June 21). The US drops atomic bombs on Hiroshima (August 6) and Nagasaki (August 9), the Soviet Union and Mongolia invade Japanese colonies of Manchukuo, Mengjiang (Inner Mongolia), northern Korea, South Sakhalin and the Kuril Islands (August 9 - September 2). Japan surrenders (September 2): Allied occupation begins.
1947: The Constitution of Japan comes into force.[8]
Emperors
Posthumous name1
Given name2
Childhood name3
Period of reign
Era name4
Meiji Tenn?(????)
Mutsuhito(??)
Sachi-no-miya(??)
1868-1912(1890-1912)5
Meiji
Taish? Tenn?(????)
Yoshihito(??)
Haru-no-miya(??)
1912-26
Taish?
Sh?wa Tenn?(????)
Hirohito(??)
Michi-no-miya(??)
1926-896
Sh?wa
1 Each posthumous name was given after the respective era names as Ming and Qing Dynasties of China.
2 The Japanese imperial family name has no surname or dynastic name.
3 The Meiji Emperor was known only by the appellation Sachi-no-miya from his birth until November 11, 1860, when he was proclaimed heir apparent to Emperor K?mei and received the personal name Mutsuhito.
4 No multiple era names were given for each reign after Emperor Meiji.
5 Constitutionally
6 Constitutionally. The reign of the Sh?wa Emperor in fact continued until 1989 since he did not abdicate after World War II. However, he lost his status as a living god and influence on politics after the 1947 constitution was adopted.
Emblems
Flag of the Empire of Japan from 1870 to 1999
War flag of the Imperial Japanese Army
Naval ensign of the Empire of Japan
Flag of the Japanese Emperor
See also
Japan portalPolitics portal
Agriculture in the Empire of Japan
Demography of the Empire of Japan
Economy of the Empire of Japan
Education in the Empire of Japan
Foreign commerce and shipping of the Empire of Japan
Germany-Japan industrial co-operation before World War II
Industrial production in Sh?wa Japan
Japanese nuclear weapon program
List of territories occupied by Imperial Japan
Political parties of the Empire of Japan
Notes
^ Modified version used in 1880-1945.
^ South Seas Mandate (7) was a mandate of the League of Nations under Japanese control.
^ From 1943 to 1945, Karafuto was part of the naichi
^ From 1943 to 1945, Karafuto was part of the naichi
^ Although the Empire of Japan officially had no state religion,[4][5] Shinto played an important part for the Japanese state. Marius Jansen states: "The Meiji government had from the first incorporated, and in a sense created, Shinto, and utilized its tales of the divine origin of the ruling house as the core of its ritual addressed to ancestors 'of ages past'. As the Japanese empire grew the affirmation of a divine mission for the Japanese race was emphasized more strongly. Shinto was imposed on colonial lands in Taiwan and Korea, and public funds were utilized to build and maintain new shrines there. Shinto priests were attached to army units as chaplains, and the cult of war dead, enshrined at the Yasukuni Jinja in Tokyo, took on ever greater proportions as their number grew."[6]
^ De facto, including Japanese puppet state Manchukuo and not official.
^ De facto, including Japanese occupation territories and not official.
^ De facto, including population in Japanese occupation territories and not official.
^ "During the second half of the nineteenth century, Japan's nation-builders forged the Meiji nation-state out of an older, heterogeneous Tokugawa realm, integrating semi-autonomous domain states into a unified political community."[13] "Rather than restore an ancient (and probably imaginary) center-periphery order, the Meiji Restoration hastened the creation of a new and unambiguously centralized and modern nation-state. Within a few decades of the official beginning of the nation-building project, Tokyo had become the political and economic capital of a state that replaced semi-autonomous domains with newly created prefectures subordinate to central laws and centrally appointed administrators."[14]
^ ????, "Enrich the Country, Strengthen the Armed Forces"
^ ????, "Promote Industry"
^ During a recess, Saig?, who had his troops outside, "remarked that it would take only one short sword to settle the discussion".[25] The word used for "dagger" was tant?.
References
Citations
^ "Explore Japan National Flag and National Anthem". Retrieved January 29, 2017.
^ "National Symbols". Archived from the original on February 2, 2017. Retrieved January 29, 2017.
^ Schellinger and Salkin, ed. (1996). "Kyoto". International Dictionary of Historic Places: Asia and Oceania. UK: Routledge. p.?515ff. ISBN?9781884964046.
^ Josephson, Jason ?nanda (2012). The Invention of Religion in Japan. University of Chicago Press. p.?133. ISBN?978-0226412344.
^ Thomas, Jolyon Baraka (2014). Japan's Preoccupation with Religious Freedom (Ph.D.). Princeton University. p.?76.
^ Jansen 2002, p.?669.
^ a b Hunter 1984, pp.?31-32.
^ a b c d e f "Chronological table 5 December 1, 1946 - June 23, 1947". National Diet Library. Retrieved September 30, 2010.
^ Jansen 2002, p.?334, "One can date the "restoration" of imperial rule from the edict of January 3, 1868."
^ Harrison, Mark (2000). The Economics of World War II: Six Great Powers in International Comparison. Cambridge University Press. p.?3. ISBN?9780521785037. Retrieved October 2, 2016.
^ Conrad, Sebastian (2014). "The Dialectics of Remembrance: Memories of Empire in Cold War Japan" (PDF). Comparative Studies in Society and History. 56 (1): 8. doi:10.1017/S0010417513000601. ISSN?0010-4175. JSTOR?43908281. S2CID?146284542. Archived (PDF) from the original on July 8, 2020. Retrieved July 7, 2020. In 1942, at the moment of its greatest extension, the empire encompassed territories spanning over 7,400,000 square kilometers.
^ a b Taeuber, Irene B.; Beal, Edwin G. (January 1945). "The Demographic Heritage of the Japanese Empire". Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science. SAGE Publications. 237: 65. doi:10.1177/000271624523700108. JSTOR?1025496. S2CID?144547927.
^ Tsutsui 2009, p.?234.
^ Tsutsui 2009, p.?433.
^ Townsend, Susan (July 17, 2018). "Japan's Quest for Empire 1931-1945". BBC.
^ Shillony, Ben-Ami (2013). Ben-Ami Shillony - Collected Writings. Routledge. p.?83. ISBN?978-1134252305.
^ Hagiwara 2004, p.?34.
^ Jansen 2002, pp.?314-315.
^ Hagiwara 2004, p.?35.
^ Satow 1921, p.?282.
^ Keene 2002, p.?116.
^ Jansen 2002, pp.?310-311.
^ Keene 2002, pp.?120-121, and Satow 1921, p.?283. Moreover, Satow (1921, p.?285) speculates that Yoshinobu had agreed to an assembly of daimy?s in the hope that such a body would reinstate him.
^ Satow 1921, p.?286.
^ Keene 2002, p.?122. Original quotation (Japanese): "??????????????." in Hagiwara 2004, p.?42.
^ Keene 2002, p.?124.
^ a b Jansen 2002, p.?312.
^ Keene 2002, p.?340, notes that one might "describe the Oath in Five Articles as a constitution for all ages".
^ "??8??1875?4??????????????????????????????????????".
^ Kazuhiro, Takii (2007). The Meiji Constitution. The Japanese Experience Of The West And The Shaping Of The Modern State. International House of Japan. p.?14.
^ The Secret of Japan's Strength Archived July 11, 2007, at the Wayback Machine www.calvin.edu
^ Equal-to-the-Apostles St. Nicholas of Japan, Russian Orthodox Cathedral of Saint John the Baptist web-site, Washington D.C.
^ "???????????? "History of Japanese Orthodox Church and Now"" (in Japanese). The Orthodox Church in Japan. February 1, 2007. Retrieved August 25, 2007.
^ Orthodox translation of Gospel into Japanese, Pravostok Orthodox Portal, October 2006
^ Scott Pate, Alan (May 9, 2017). Kanban: Traditional Shop Signs of Japan. New Jersey: Princeton University Press. ISBN?978-0691176475. In 1871 the Dampatsurei edict forced all samurai to cut off their topknots, a traditional source of identity and pride.
^ "The Rise of the Concrete Castle". TenguLife: The curious guide to Japan. May 2, 2017.
^ Foo, Audrey (January 17, 2019). "A Race Across Japan to See its Last Original Castles". GaijinPot.
^ "Japanese castles History of Castles". Japan Guide. September 4, 2021.
^ "Himeji-j?". Lonely Planet.
^ Japan's Modern Castles Episode One: Himeji Castle (???). Japan's Modern Castles. April 6, 2020.
^ Carter, Alex (May 22, 2010). "Japanese Concrete Castle".
^ Baseel, Casey (March 27, 2017). "Nagoya Castle's concrete keep to be demolished and replaced with traditional wooden structure". RocketNews24.
^ "Shinbutsu bunri - the separation of Shinto and Buddhism". Japan Reference. July 11, 2019.
^ Park, T. L. "Process of architectural wooden preservation in Japan" (PDF). Structural Studies, Repairs and Maintenance of Heritage Architecture. XIII: 491-502.
^ Burgess, John (December 26, 1985). "After 51 Years, a Temple Is Restored". The Washington Post.
^ Hannah, Dayna (June 12, 2018). "20 PLACES YOU MUST SEE IN KYOTO". Japan Travel Blog.
^ "1889 Japanese Constitution". history.hanover.edu.
^ Odagiri, Hiroyuki (1996). Technology and Industrial Development in Japan. Oxford University Press. pp.?72-73. ISBN?978-0-19-828802-2.
^ Nimura, K. (1997). The Ashio Riot of 1907: A Social History of Mining in Japan. Archived 2009-12-04 at the Wayback Machine American Historical Review, 104:3. June 1999. Retrieved 16 June 2011
^ Hardy's Case, The Japan Weekly Mail, January 4 1875.
^ Clark, Gregory; Ishii, Tatsuya (2012). "Social Mobility in Japan, 1868-2012: The Surprising Persistence of the Samurai" (PDF). University of California, Davis.
^ Phra Sarasas, Money And Banking in Japan (1940) p. 107.
^ Itsuo Hamaoka, A study on the Central Bank of Japan (1902) online
^ Masato Shizume, "A History of the Bank of Japan, 1882-2016." (Waseda University, 2016) online
^ Seth, Michael J (2010). A History of Korea: From Antiquity to the Present. Rowman & Littlefield Publishers. p.?225. ISBN?978-0-7425-6716-0.
^ a b Ion 2014, p.?44.
^ Drea 2009, p.?97.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k Drea 2009, p.?98.
^ a b c Drea 2009, p.?99.
^ Paine, Sarah. The Russo-Japanese War in Global Perspective: World War Zero. p.?503.
^ Duus, Peter (1995). The Abacus and the Sword: The Japanese Penetration of Korea, 1895-1910. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN?978-0520213616.
^ a b A reckless adventure in Taiwan amid Meiji Restoration turmoil Archived October 31, 2007, at the Wayback Machine, THE ASAHI SHIMBUN, Retrieved on July 22, 2007.
^ "Question 1917????6????????????????????????????????????????????????????". Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan. Retrieved October 3, 2010.
^ "Polish orphans". Tsuruga city. Archived from the original on November 12, 2010. Retrieved October 3, 2010.
^ Hane, Mikiso, Modern Japan: A Historical Survey (Oxford: Westview Press, 1992) 234.
^ a b "?150??? ????????????????????????? ?12? ??12?11?16??????". House of Representatives of Japan. November 16, 2000. Archived from the original on September 28, 2011. Retrieved October 10, 2009.
^ "???????????????". ????. ????????? ????????. Archived from the original on April 11, 2008. Retrieved October 10, 2009.
^ Herbert Bix, Hirohito and the Making of Modern Japan, 2001, p. 284
^ Francis Chia-Hui Lin (January 9, 2015). Heteroglossic Asia: The Transformation of Urban Taiwan. Taylor & Francis. pp.?85-. ISBN?978-1-317-62637-4.
^ Nish 2002, p.?78.
^ Kevin McDowell. Japan in Manchuria: Agricultural Emigration in the Japanese Empire, 1932-1945. University of Arizona
^ "The Unquiet Past Seven decades on from the defeat of Japan, memories of war still divide East Asia". The Economist. August 12, 2015. Retrieved November 26, 2016.
^ "Question ???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????". Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan. Retrieved October 2, 2010.
^ "???????". Five Ministers Council. Japan Center for Asian Historical Record. December 6, 1938. p.?36/42. Archived from the original on July 26, 2011. Retrieved October 2, 2010.
^ Sundberg, Steve (October 22, 2018). "2600th Anniversary of the Founding of Japan, 1940". Old Tokyo.
^ Joseph K. Yamagiwa (September 1955). "Literature and Politics in the Japanese Magazine, Sekai". Public Affairs. 28 (3): 254-268. JSTOR?3035405.
^ Gadeleva, Emilia (2000). "Susanoo: One of the Central Gods in Japanese Mythology". Nichibunken Japan Review: Bulletin of the International Research Center for Japanese Studies. International Research Center for Japanese Studies. 12: 166-7. doi:10.15055/00000288.
^ Joos, Jo?l (January 1, 2008). "17. Memories Of A Liberal, Liberalism Of Memory: Tsuda S?kichi And A Few Things He Forgot To Mention". The Power of Memory in Modern Japan: 291-307. doi:10.1163/ej.9781905246380.i-382.134. ISBN?9789004213203.
^ Reader, Ian (2003). Befu, Harumi; Oguma, Eiji (eds.). "Identity, Nihonjinron, and Academic (Dis)honesty". Monumenta Nipponica. 58 (1): 103-116. ISSN?0027-0741. JSTOR?3096753.
^ Morison, Samuel Eliot (2010). History of United States Naval Operations in World War II, Volume 3: The Rising Sun in the Pacific 1931 - April 1942. Naval Institute Press. pp.?80-81.
^ Morison 2010, p.?81.
^ Morison 2010, p.?259.
^ Klemen L. "Forgotten Campaign: The Dutch East Indies Campaign 1941-1942". Archived from the original on July 26, 2011.
^ a b "Oil and Japanese Strategy in the Solomons: A Postulate". www.combinedfleet.com.
^ "WW2 historical markers remind Pinoys of Bataan's role on Day of Valor". GMA News Online. April 9, 2012.
^ "Battle of Midway - Nihon Kaigun". combinedfleet.com.
^ Wilbanks, Bob (2004). Last Man Out. Jefferson: McFarland & Company, Inc., Publishers. pp. 45, 53, 56, 68-69, 80-81, 84-85, 92, 98-99, 100, 102, 106-107. ISBN?9780786418220.
^ Racing the Enemy: Stalin, Truman, and the Surrender of Japan Tsuyoshi Hasegawa Belknap Press (October 30, 2006) ISBN?978-0674022416
^ "Resurgent Japan military 'can stand toe to toe with anybody". CNN. December 7, 2016. Archived from the original on December 4, 2018.
^ Peattie, Mark R. (1988). "Chapter 5 - The Japanese Colonial Empire 1895-1945". The Cambridge History of Japan Vol. 6. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN?0-521-22352-0.
^ Stephan, John J (1974). The Kuril Islands. Oxford: Clarendon Press. pp.?50-56.
^ The Metropolitan Museum of Art. "Heilbrunn Timeline of Art History: Japan, 1900 a.d.-present". Retrieved February 1, 2009.
^ J. W. Dower, Japan in War & Peace, New press, 1993, p. 11
^ Klemen L. "Vice-Admiral Chuichi Nagumo". Forgotten Campaign: The Dutch East Indies Campaign 1941-1942. Archived from the original on June 30, 2012.
Bibliography
Benesch, Oleg (2018). "Castles and the Militarisation of Urban Society in Imperial Japan" (PDF). Transactions of the Royal Historical Society. 28: 107-134. doi:10.1017/S0080440118000063. S2CID?158403519.
Chandler, David P.; Cribb, Robert; Narangoa, Li, eds. (2016). End of Empire: 100 Days in 1945 that Changed Asia and the World. NIAS Press. ISBN?9788776941833.
Drea, Edward J. (2009). Japan's Imperial Army: Its Rise and Fall, 1853-1945. Lawrence, Kansas: University Press of Kansas. ISBN?978-0-8032-1708-9.
Hagiwara, K?ichi (2004).  ?? ?????????? [Illustrated life of Saig? Takamori and ?kubo Toshimichi] (in Japanese). Kawade Shob? Shinsha. ISBN?4-309-76041-4.
Hotta, Eri (2013). Japan 1941: Countdown to Infamy. New York. ISBN?978-0307739742.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Ion, Hamish (2014). "The Idea of Naval Imperialism: The China Squadron and the Boxer Uprising". British Naval Strategy East of Suez, 1900-2000: Influences and Actions. Routledge. ISBN?978-1-135-76967-3.
Jansen, Marius; Hall, John Whitney; Kanai, Madoka; Twitchett, Denis (1989). The Cambridge History of Japan. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press. ISBN?0-521-22352-0.
Jansen, Marius B. (2002). The Making of Modern Japan. Cambridge, Mass: Harvard University Press. ISBN?0-674-00334-9. OCLC 44090600 Archived April 3, 2020, at the Wayback Machine
Jansen, Marius B. (1995). The Emergence of Meiji Japan. Cambridge University Press. ISBN?0-5214-8405-7.
Hunter, Janet (1984). Concise Dictionary of Modern Japanese History. University of California Press. ISBN?0-5200-4557-2.
Keene, Donald (2002). Emperor of Japan: Meiji and His World, 1852-1912. New York: Columbia University Press. ISBN?0-231-12341-8. OCLC 46731178 Archived October 10, 2017, at Archive-It
Meyer, Carlton (2019). Teaching Japan Imperialism. G2mil - via YouTube.
Nish, Ian Hill (2002). Japanese Foreign Policy in the Interwar Period. Westport, Connecticut: Praeger. ISBN?978-0-275-94791-0.
Porter, Robert P. (1918). Japan: The Rise of a Modern Power. Oxford. ISBN?0-665-98994-6.
Satow, Ernest Mason (1921). A Diplomat in Japan. London. ISBN?4-925080-28-8.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Takemae, Eiji (2003). The Allied Occupation of Japan. Continuum Press. ISBN?0-82641-521-0.
Tsutsui, William M. (2009). A Companion to Japanese History. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN?978-1-405-19339-9.
External links
 Media related to Empire of Japan at Wikimedia Commons
Preceded?byEdo period1603?1868
 History of JapanEmpire of Japan 1868?1947
Succeeded?byPost-war Japan1945-presentOccupation of Japan1945-1952
vteEmpire of JapanOverview
Agriculture
Censorship
Demographics
Economy
Economic history
Education
Eugenics
Foreign commerce and shipping
Industrial production
Militarism
Nationalism
Politics
Statism
State Shinto
Kazoku
Emperors
Meiji (Mutsuhito)
Taish? (Yoshihito)
Sh?wa (Hirohito)
Symbols
Flag of Japan
Rising Sun Flag
National seals of Japan
Imperial Seal
Government Seal
State Seal
Privy Seal
Kimigayo
Policies
Constitution
Charter Oath
Foreign relations
Imperial Rescript on Education
Imperial Rule Assistance Association
Kokutai
Mokusatsu
National Spiritual Mobilization Movement
Peace Preservation Law
Political parties
Supreme Court of Judicature
Tokk?
Tonarigumi
Greater East Asia Conference
GovernmentAdministration(ministries)
Imperial Household
Home Ministry
War
Army
Navy
Treasury
Foreign Affairs
Agriculture and Commerce
Commerce and Industry
Munitions
Colonial Affairs
Greater East Asia
East Asia Development Board (K?ain)
Legislative anddeliberative bodies
Daij?-kan
Privy Council
Gozen Kaigi
Imperial Diet
Peers
Representatives
MilitaryArmed Forces
Imperial General Headquarters
Imperial Japanese Army General Staff Office
Imperial Japanese Navy General Staff
Imperial Rescript to Soldiers and Sailors
Senjinkun military code
Nuclear weapons program
Kamikaze
War crimes
Supreme War Council
Conscription
Imperial Japanese Army
General Staff
Air Service
Railways and Shipping
Imperial Guard
Imperial Way Faction (K?d?ha)
Japanese holdout
Taiwan Army of Japan
Control Faction (T?seiha)
Kenpeitai
Imperial Japanese Navy
General Staff
Air Service
Marines
Fleet Faction
Treaty Faction
HistoryMeiji era
Meiji Restoration
Beipu uprising
Boshin War
Two Lords Incident
Satsuma Rebellion
First Sino-Japanese War
Triple Intervention
Boxer Rebellion
Anglo-Japanese Alliance
Russo-Japanese War
Invasion of Taiwan (1874)
Invasion of Taiwan (1895)
Taish? era
World War I
Entry
Siberian Intervention
General Election Law
Washington Naval Treaty
Manchuria-Mongolia problem
Taish? Democracy
Taish? Roman
Tapani incident
Truku War
Racial Equality Proposal
Sh?wa era
Sh?wa financial crisis
Jinan incident
London Naval Treaty
Musha Incident
Pacification of Manchukuo
January 28 incident
Anti-Comintern Pact
Second Sino-Japanese War
Soviet-Japanese border conflicts
Rape of Nanking
Tripartite Pact
Soviet-Japanese Neutrality Pact
Japan during World War II
Pacific War
Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki
Soviet-Japanese War
Surrender (Potsdam Declaration, Hirohito surrender broadcast)
Occupation
TerritoriesColonies
Karafuto (naichi after 1943)
Ch?sen
Kant?-sh?
Nan'y?
Taiwan
Puppet states
Manchukuo
Mengjiang
Wang Jingwei regime
Second Philippine Republic
Empire of Vietnam
State of Burma
Azad Hind
Occupied territories
Borneo
Burma
Dutch East Indies
French Indochina
Hong Kong
Malaya
Philippines
Singapore
Thailand
Ideology
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere
Other topics
Sonn? j?i
Fukoku ky?hei
Hakk? ichiu
Japanese settlers in Manchuria
Internment camps
German pre-World War II industrial co-operation
Shinmin no Michi
Sh?wa Modan
Socialist thought
Taiwanese Imperial Japan Serviceman
Yasukuni Shrine
International Military Tribunal for the Far East
Political dissidence
vteWorld War I
Outline
Military engagements
Aftermath
Economic history
Geography
Historiography
Home fronts
Memorials
Opposition
Popular culture
Propaganda
Puppet states
Technology
TheatresEuropean
Balkans
Serbia
Western Front
Eastern Front
Romania
Italian Front
Middle Eastern
Gallipoli
Sinai and Palestine
Caucasus
Persia
Mesopotamia
South Arabia
African
South West
East
Kamerun
Togoland
North
Asian and Pacific
Tsingtao
German Samoa
German New Guinea
Naval warfare
U-boat campaign
North Atlantic
Mediterranean
PrincipalparticipantsEntente Powers
Leaders
Belgium
Brazil
China
France
French Empire
Greece
Italy
Japan
Montenegro
Portuguese Empire
Romania
Russia
Russian Empire
Russian Republic
Serbia
Siam
United Kingdom
British Empire
United States
Central Powers
Leaders
Germany
Austria-Hungary
Ottoman Empire
Bulgaria
TimelinePre-War conflicts
Franco-Prussian War (1870-71)
Scramble for Africa (1880-1914)
Russo-Japanese War (1905)
Tangier Crisis (1905-06)
Bosnian Crisis (1908-09)
Agadir Crisis (1911)
Italo-Turkish War (1911-12)
First Balkan War (1912-13)
Second Balkan War (1913)
Prelude
Origins
Historiography
Sarajevo assassination
Anti-Serb riots in Sarajevo
July Crisis
Autumn 1914
German invasion of Belgium
Battle of the Frontiers
Battle of Cer
Battle of Galicia
Russian invasion of East Prussia
Battle of Tannenberg
Siege of Tsingtao
First Battle of the Masurian Lakes
Battle of Grand Couronn?
First Battle of the Marne
Siege of Przemy?l
Race to the Sea
First Battle of Ypres
Battle of Kolubara
Battle of Sarikamish
1915
Second Battle of the Masurian Lakes
Battle of ?om?a
Second Battle of Ypres
Sinking of the RMS Lusitania
Battle of Gallipoli
Second Battle of Artois
Battles of the Isonzo
Gorlice-Tarn?w offensive
Great Retreat
Bug-Narew Offensive
Siege of Novogeorgievsk
Vistula-Bug offensive
Second Battle of Champagne
Kosovo offensive
Siege of Kut
Battle of Loos
1916
Erzurum offensive
Battle of Verdun
Lake Naroch offensive
Battle of Asiago
Battle of Jutland
Battle of the Somme
first day
Brusilov offensive
Baranovichi offensive
Battle of Romani
Monastir offensive
Battle of Transylvania
1917
Capture of Baghdad
February Revolution
Zimmermann Telegram
Second Battle of Arras
Second Battle of the Aisne
Kerensky offensive
Battle of M?r??ti
Third Battle of Ypres (Passchendaele)
Battle of M?r??e?ti
Third Battle of Oituz
Battle of Caporetto
Southern Palestine offensive
October Revolution
Battle of La Malmaison
Battle of Cambrai
Armistice of Foc?ani
Armistice between Russia and the Central Powers
1918
Operation Faustschlag
Treaty of Brest-Litovsk
German spring offensive
Zeebrugge Raid
Treaty of Bucharest of 1918
Battle of Goychay
Second Battle of the Piave River
Second Battle of the Marne
Hundred Days Offensive
Vardar offensive
Battle of Megiddo
Third Transjordan attack
Meuse-Argonne offensive
Battle of Vittorio Veneto
Armistice of Salonica
Armistice of Mudros
Armistice of Villa Giusti
Second Romanian campaign
Armistice with Germany
Armistice of Belgrade
Co-belligerent conflicts
Somaliland campaign (1900-1920)
Mexican Revolution (1910-1920)
Maritz rebellion (1914-15)
Muscat rebellion (1913-1920)
Zaian War (1914-1921)
Kurdish rebellions (1914-1917)
Ovambo Uprising (1914-1917)
Kelantan rebellion (1915)
Senussi campaign (1915-1916)
Volta-Bani War (1915-1917)
Arab Revolt (1916-1918)
Central Asian Revolt (1916-17)
Invasion of Darfur (1916)
Easter Rising (1916)
Kaocen revolt (1916-17)
Russian Revolution (1917)
Finnish Civil War (1918)
Post-War conflicts
Russian Civil War (1917-1921)
Ukrainian-Soviet War (1917-1921)
Armenian-Azerbaijani War (1918-1920)
Armeno-Georgian War (1918)
German Revolution (1918-19)
Revolutions and interventions in Hungary (1918-1920)
Hungarian-Romanian War (1918-19)
Greater Poland Uprising (1918-19)
Estonian War of Independence (1918-1920)
Latvian War of Independence (1918-1920)
Lithuanian Wars of Independence (1918-1920)
Polish-Ukrainian War (1918-19)
Third Anglo-Afghan War (1919)
Egyptian Revolution (1919)
Polish-Lithuanian War (1919-1920)
Polish-Soviet War (1919-1921)
Irish War of Independence (1919-1921)
Turkish War of Independence
Franco-Turkish War (1918-1921)
Greco-Turkish War (1919-1922)
Turkish-Armenian War (1920)
Iraqi Revolt (1920)
Vlora War (1920)
Franco-Syrian War (1920)
Soviet-Georgian War (1921)
AspectsWarfare
Aviation
Strategic bombing
Chemical weapons
Cryptography
Horses
Logistics
Naval warfare
Convoy system
Trench warfare
Conscription
Australia
Canada
France?[fr]
Ottoman Empire
United Kingdom
Ireland
United States
Casualties /Civilian impact
British casualties
Parliamentarians
Ottoman casualties
Sports
Rugby
Olympians
Disease
1899-1923 cholera pandemic
1915 typhus epidemic in Serbia
Spanish flu
Occupations
Austro-Hungarian occupation of Serbia
Bulgarian occupations
Albania
Serbia
German occupations
Belgium
Luxembourg
Northeast France
Ober Ost
Occupied Enemy Territory Administration
Russian occupations
Eastern Galicia
Western Armenia
POWs
Germans
in the United States
Italians
POW locations
Canada
Germany?/ camps
Switzerland
Refugees
Belgian refugees
Netherlands
United Kingdom
War crimes
Allied blockades
Eastern Mediterranean
Mount Lebanon famine
Germany
Deportations from East Prussia
Destruction of Kalisz
Sack of Dinant
Late Ottoman genocides
Armenian genocide
Assyrian genocide (Sayfo)
Pontic Greek genocide
Rape of Belgium
Urkun (Kyrgyzstan)
Massacres of Albanians
Ukrainian Canadian internment
DiplomacyEntry into the war
Austria-Hungary
France
Germany
Italy
Japan
Ottoman Empire
Russia
United Kingdom
United States
Declarations of war
Austria-Hungary against Serbia
UK against Germany
Ottomans against the Triple Entente
USA against Germany
USA against Austria-Hungary
Agreements
Constantinople Agreement
Treaty of London
Damascus Protocol
Bulgaria-Germany treaty
Sykes-Picot Agreement
Sazonov-Pal?ologue Agreement
Paris Economy Pact
Treaty of Bucharest
Agreement of Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne
Peace treaties
Treaties of Brest-Litovsk
Russia-Central Powers
Ukraine-Central Powers
Treaty of Bucharest
Paris Peace Conference
Treaty of Versailles
Treaty of St. Germain
Treaty of Neuilly
Treaty of Trianon
Treaty of S?vres
Treaty of Lausanne
Other
Arrest of a Suspect in Sarajevo
The Golden Virgin
They shall not pass
?World War I portal
?World portal
Category
vteWorld War II
Outline
Military engagements
Battles
Operations
Leaders
Allied
Axis
Commanders
Casualties
Conferences
GeneralTopics
Air warfare of World War II
In Europe
Blitzkrieg
Comparative military ranks
Cryptography
Declarations of war
Diplomacy
Governments in exile
Home front
Australian
United Kingdom
United States
Lend-Lease
Manhattan Project
British contribution
Military awards
Military equipment
Military production
Naval history
Nazi plunder
Opposition
Technology
Allied cooperation
Mulberry harbour
Total war
Strategic bombing
Puppet states
Women
Art and World War II
Music in World War II
Theaters
Asia and Pacific
China
South-East Asia
Pacific
North and Central Pacific
South-West Pacific
Indian Ocean
Europe
Western Front
Eastern Front
Mediterranean and Middle East
North Africa
East Africa
Italy
West Africa
Atlantic
timeline
Americas
Aftermath
Chinese Civil War
Cold War
Decolonization
Division of Korea
First Indochina War
Expulsion of Germans
Greek Civil War
Indonesian National Revolution
Keelhaul
Marshall Plan
Occupation of Germany
Occupation of Japan
Osoaviakhim
Paperclip
Soviet occupations
Baltic
Hungary
Poland
Romania
Territorial changes of Germany
Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany
United Nations
War crimes
Allied war crimes
Soviet war crimes
British war crimes
United States war crimes
German war crimes
forced labour
Wehrmacht war crimes
The Holocaust
Aftermath
Response
Nuremberg trials
Italian war crimes
Japanese war crimes
Nanjing Massacre
Unit 731
Prosecution
Croatian war crimes
Genocide of Serbs
Persecution of Jews
Romanian war crimes
Sexual violence
German military brothels
Camp brothels
Rape during the occupation of Germany ?/  Japan ?/  Poland
Rape during the liberation of France ?/  Serbia
Sook Ching
Comfort women
Rape of Manila
Marocchinate
ParticipantsAllies
Australia
Belgium
Brazil
Bulgaria (from September 1944)
Canada
China
Cuba
Czechoslovakia
Denmark
Ethiopia
Eswatini (formerly Swaziland)
Finland (from September 1944)
France
Free France
Greece
India
Italy (from September 1943)
Luxembourg
Mexico
Netherlands
Newfoundland
New Zealand
Norway
Philippines
Poland
Romania (from August 1944)
Sierra Leone
South Africa
Southern Rhodesia
Soviet Union
Tuva
United Kingdom
British Empire
United States
Puerto Rico
Yugoslavia
Axis
Albania protectorate
Bulgaria (until September 1944)
Wang Jingwei regime
Croatia
Finland (until September 1944)
Germany
Hungary
Free India
French Indochina
Iraq
Italy (until September 1943)
Italian Social Republic
Japan
Manchukuo
Philippines
Romania (until August 1944)
Slovakia
Thailand
Vichy France
Neutral
Ireland
Portugal
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Vatican City
Resistance
Albania
Austria
Belgium
Bulgaria
Czech lands
Denmark
Dutch East Indies
Estonia
Ethiopia
France
Germany
Greece
Hong Kong
Italy
Japan
Jews
Korea
Korean Liberation Army
Korean Volunteer Army
Latvia
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malaya
Netherlands
Northeast China
Norway
Philippines
Poland
Romania
Thailand
Soviet Union
Slovakia
Western Ukraine
Vietnam
Qu?c d?n ??ng
Viet Minh
Yugoslavia
POWs
Finnish prisoners in the Soviet Union
German prisoners
Soviet Union
Azerbaijan
United States
United Kingdom
Italian prisoners in the Soviet Union
Japanese prisoners
Soviet Union
Soviet prisoners
Finland
atrocities by Germans
Polish prisoners in the Soviet Union
Romanian prisoners in the Soviet Union
TimelinePrelude
Africa
Asia
Europe
1939
Poland
Phoney War
Battle of South Guangxi
Winter War
Atlantic
First Battle of Changsha
1939-1940 Winter Offensive
1940
German invasion of Denmark (1940)
Norwegian campaign
German invasion of Luxembourg
Netherlands
Belgium
France
Battle of Zaoyang-Yichang
Battle of Britain
North Africa
West Africa
British Somaliland
Hundred Regiments Offensive
Baltic states
Eastern Romania
Indochina
Greece
Compass
1941
Battle of South Henan
Battle of South Shanxi
East Africa
Yugoslavia
Shanggao
Greece
Crete
Iraq
Soviet Union
Summer War
Finland (Silver Fox)
Lithuania
Syria and Lebanon
Kiev
Iran
Leningrad
Gorky
Moscow
Sevastopol
Pearl Harbor
Hong Kong
Philippines
Second Battle of Changsha
Malaya
Borneo (1941-1942)
Greek famine of 1941-1944
1942
Burma
Third Battle of Changsha
Java Sea
Coral Sea
Gazala
Dutch Harbor
 Attu (occupation)
Kiska
Zhejiang-Jiangxi
Midway
Rzhev
Blue
Stalingrad
Singapore
St Nazaire
Dieppe
El Alamein
Guadalcanal
Torch
Chinese famine of 1942-1943
1943
Tunisia
Battle of West Hubei
Kursk
Smolensk
Gorky
Solomon Islands
 Attu
Sicily
Cottage
Lower Dnieper
Italy
Armistice of Cassibile
Gilbert and Marshall Islands
Burma
Northern Burma and Western Yunnan
Changde
Bengal famine of 1943
1944
Monte Cassino / Anzio
Narva
Korsun-Cherkassy
Tempest
Ichi-Go
Overlord
Neptune
Mariana and Palau
Bagration
Western Ukraine
Tannenberg Line
Warsaw
Eastern Romania
Belgrade
Paris
Dragoon
Gothic Line
Market Garden
Estonia
Crossbow
Pointblank
Lapland
Philippines (1944-1945)
Leyte
Syrmian Front
Hungary
Budapest
Burma (1944-1945)
Ardennes
Bodenplatte
Dutch famine of 1944-1945
1945
Vistula-Oder
Manila
Iwo Jima
Project Hula
Western invasion of Germany
Okinawa
Guangxi
West Hunan
Italy (Spring 1945)
Berlin
Czechoslovakia
Surrender of Germany
document
Borneo
Taipei
Naval bombardment of Japan
Manchuria
Atomic bombings
Debate
South Sakhalin
Kuril Islands
Shumshu
Vietnamese famine of 1945
Surrender of Japan
Potsdam Declaration
document
End of World War II in Asia
?World War II portal
?World portal
Bibliography
Category
Portal
vteFormer external territories (gaichi) of JapanKarafuto (naichi after 1943)
Karafuto Civil Administration Office → Karafuto Prefecture: Toyohara Subprefecture | ?tomari Subprefecture | R?taka Subprefecture | Shikuka Subprefecture | Motodomari Subprefecture | Maoka Subprefecture | Tomarioru Subprefecture | Honto Subprefecture | Esutoru Subprefecture | Ushiro Subprefecture
KoreaGovernor-General
Keiki-d?
K?gen-d?
Ch?seihoku-d?
Ch?seinan-d?
Zenrahoku-d?
Zenranan-d?
Keish?hoku-d?
Keish?nan-d?
Heian'nan-d?
Heianhoku-d?
K?kai-d?
Kanky?nan-d?
Kanky?hoku-d?TaiwanGovernor-General
Taihoku Prefecture
Shinchiku Prefecture
Taich? Prefecture
Tainan Prefecture
Takao Prefecture
Karenk? Prefecture
Tait? Prefecture
H?ko PrefectureNan'y?Governor
Civil Affairs Bureau of Temporary Nan'y? Islands Defense Unit → Nan'y? Government: Saipan Subprefecture | Parao Subprefecture | Yappu Subprefecture | Torakku Subprefecture | Ponape Subprefecture | Yar?to SubprefectureKant?-sh?
Governor-General Kant? Bureau: Dairen Civil Affairs Bureau | Ryojun Civil Affairs Bureau | Kinsh? Civil Affairs Bureau | Furanten Civil Affairs Bureau | Hishika Civil Affairs Bureau
vteCountries and territories occupied by the Empire of Japan during World War IIBritish Empire
Burma
Christmas Island
Gilbert Islands
Hong Kong
India: Andaman and Nicobar Islands
Malaya
Nauru
New Guinea
Sarawak, Brunei, Labuan and British North Borneo
Singapore
Solomon Islands
United States
Attu
Guam
Kiska
Philippines
Wake Island
Other
China
Mengkiang
France
Cambodia
Laos
Vietnam
Netherlands
Dutch East Indies
Portugal
Portuguese Timor
1931-1945
Manchukuo
South Seas Mandate: Northern Marianas
vteStates and territories in the sphere of influence of the Empire of Japan during World War II
 Manchukuo
 East Hebei Autonomous Government
 North Shanxi Autonomous Government
 South Chahar Autonomous Government
 Mengjiang United Autonomous Government
 Shanghai Great Way Government
 Provisional Government of China
 Reformed Government of China
 Reorganized National Government of China
 Kingdom of Thailand
 State of Burma
 Provisional Government of Free India
?Republic of the Philippines
 French Indochina
 Empire of Vietnam
 Kingdom of Kampuchea
 Kingdom of Luang Prabang
 Occupied Dutch East Indies
 Occupied Malaya
 Occupied British Borneo
 Occupied Hong Kong
 Occupied Singapore
 Occupied Guam
 Occupied Nauru
 Occupied Gilbert Islands
 Occupied Solomon Islands
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere
Greater East Asia Conference
Pacific War
Authority control databases: National 
Israel
United States
Japan
Korea
35°40?57?N 139°45?10?E? / ?35.68250°N 139.75278°E? / 35.68250; 139.75278
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Empire_of_Japan&oldid=1190404113"
Categories: Empire of JapanFormer countries in East AsiaFormer countries in North AsiaFormer countries in Southeast AsiaFormer countries in OceaniaFormer countries in Japanese historyFormer empires in AsiaFormer monarchies of East AsiaHistory of Japan by periodJapanese nationalism19th century in Japan20th century in Japan1868 establishments in Japan1947 disestablishments in JapanStates and territories established in 1868States and territories disestablished in 19471868 establishments in Asia1947 disestablishments in AsiaTotalitarian statesKarafutoHistory of SakhalinFormer Japanese coloniesFormer prefectures of JapanSubdivisions of JapanStates and territories established in 1905States and territories disestablished in 19451905 establishments in Japan1905 establishments in the Japanese colonial empireAxis powers1945 disestablishments in JapanHidden categories: Articles containing Japanese-language textWebarchive template wayback linksCS1 Japanese-language sources (ja)Wikipedia semi-protected pagesArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse mdy dates from February 2021Pages using infobox country or infobox former country with the symbol caption or type parametersArticles containing Latin-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2023Articles with unsourced statements from December 2020Articles to be expanded from February 2018All articles to be expandedArticles using small message boxesArticles containing Korean-language textWikipedia articles needing clarification from July 2013Articles to be expanded from April 2021Articles containing traditional Chinese-language textArticles with unsourced statements from October 2018Pages using gallery with unknown parametersArticles to be expanded from September 2021Articles to be expanded from May 2021CS1 uses Japanese-language script (ja)CS1 maint: location missing publisherWebarchive template other archivesCommons category link is on WikidataArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NLK identifiersCoordinates on Wikidata
 This page was last edited on 17 December 2023, at 18:13?(UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia? is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Toggle limited content width
