why retaining walls fail in march of 2021, a long-running construction 
project on a new jersey highway interchange   ground to halt when one of the retaining 
walls along the roadway collapsed.   this project in camden county, called the direct 
connection, was already 4 years behind schedule,   and this failure set it back even further. as of 
this writing, the cause of the collapse is still   under investigation, but the event brought 
into the spotlight a seemingly innocuous   part of the constructed environment. i love 
innocuous parts of the constructed environment,   and i promise by the end of this video 
you'll pay attention to infrastructure   that you've never even noticed before. 
why do we build walls to hold back soil,   what are the different ways to do it, and 
why do they sometimes fall down? i'm grady   and this is practical engineering. in today's 
episode, we're talking about retaining walls. this video is sponsored by hellofresh, 
america's #1 meal kit. more on that later. the natural landscape is never ideally 
suited to construction as it stands.   the earth is just too uneven. before things 
get built, we almost always have to raise or   lower areas of the ground first. we flatten 
building sites, we smooth paths for roads   and railways, and we build ramps up to 
bridges and grade-separated interchanges.   you might notice that these cuts and fills 
usually connect to the existing ground on a slope.   loose soil won't stand on its own vertically. 
that's just the nature of granular materials.   the stability of a slope can vary significantly 
depending on the type of soil and the loading   it needs to withstand. you can get many types 
of earth to hold a vertical slope temporarily,   and it's done all the time during construction, 
but over time the internal stresses will cause   them to slump and settle into a more stable 
configuration. for long-term stability,   engineers rarely trust anything steeper than 25 
degrees. that means any time you want to raise or   lower the earth, you need a slope that is twice 
as wide as it is tall, which can be a problem. don't tell them i said this, but slopes are kind 
of a waste of space. depending on the steepness,   it's either inconvenient, or entirely impossible 
to use sloped areas for building things, walking,   driving, or even as open spaces like parks. in 
dense urban areas, real estate comes at a premium,   so it doesn't make sense to waste valuable 
land on slopes. where space is limited,   it often makes sense to avoid this disadvantage by 
using a retaining wall to support soil vertically. when you see a retaining wall in the wild, 
the job of holding back soil looks effortless.   but that's usually only true because much of the 
wall's structure is hidden from view. a retaining   wall is essentially a dam, except instead of 
water, it holds back earth. soil doesn't flow   as easily as water, but it is twice as heavy. the 
force exerted on a retaining wall from that soil,   called the lateral earth pressure, can be 
enormous. but that's just from the weight   of the soil itself. include the fact that we often 
apply additional forces from buildings, vehicles,   or other structures, on top of the backfill 
behind the wall. we call these surcharge loads,   and they can increase the forces on a retaining 
wall even further. finally, water can flow through   or even freeze in the soil behind a retaining 
wall, applying even more pressure to its face. estimating all these loads and designing a wall 
to withstand them can be a real challenge for a   civil engineer. unlike most structures 
where loads are vertical from gravity,   most of the forces on a retaining wall are 
horizontal. there are a lot of different   types of walls that have been developed to 
withstand these staggering sideways forces.   let's walk through a few different designs, 
using this demonstration i built in my garage.   these dowels act like soil particles so we can 
easily see how different types of retaining   walls are able to withstand such tremendous 
stress, and what happens when they can't. the most basic retaining walls rely 
on gravity for their stability,   often employing a footing along the base. the 
footing is a horizontal member that serves as a   base to distribute the forces of the wall into 
the ground. your first inclination might be to   extend the footing on the outside of the wall to 
extend the lever arm like an outrigger on a crane.   however, it's actually more beneficial for the 
footing to extend inward into the retained soil.   that's because the earth behind the wall sits 
atop the footing, which acts as a lever to keep   the wall upright against lateral forces. retaining 
walls that rely only on their own weight and the   weight of the soil above them to remain stable 
are called gravity walls (for obvious reasons),   and the ones that use a footing like 
this are called cantilever walls. one common type of retaining wall involves tying 
a mass of soil together to act as its own wall,   retaining the unreinforced soil beyond and 
this was actually the subject of one of the   very first engineering videos on my channel. 
it's accomplished during the fill operation by   including reinforcement elements between layers of 
soil, a technique called mechanically stabilized   earth. the reinforcing elements can be steel 
strips or fabric made from plastic fibers called   geotextile or geogrid. it is remarkable how well 
this kind of reinforcement can hold soil together.   in this demonstration, i'm just using 
layers of sandpaper between the dowels,   but in that previous video, i built a cube 
entirely of sand with layers of window screen,   and it held up one of the tires of 
my car. go check that out after this   if you want some more engineering 
details on this kind of structure. gravity walls and mechanically stabilized earth 
are effective retaining walls when you're building   up or out. in other words, they're constructed 
from the ground up. but, excavated slopes often   need to be retained as well. maybe you're cutting 
out a path for a roadway through a hillside   or constructing a building in a dense urban area 
starting at the basement level. in these cases,   you need to install a retaining wall before 
or during excavation from the top down,   and there are several ways to go about it. just 
like reinforcements hold a soil mass together in   mechanically stabilized earth, you can also stitch 
together earth from the outside using a technique   called soil nailing. first, an angled hole is 
drilled in the face of the unstable slope. then   a steel bar is inserted into the hole, usually 
with plastic devices called spiders to keep it   centered. cement grout is added to the hole to 
bond the soil nail to the surrounding earth. both mechanically stabilized earth and soil 
nails are commonly used on roadway projects,   so it's easy to spot them if you're 
a regular driver. but don't examine   too closely until you are safely stopped. 
these walls are often faced with concrete,   but the facings are rarely supporting 
much of the load. instead, their job is   to protect the exposed soil from erosion due 
to wind or water. in temporary situations,   the facing sometimes consists of shotcrete, a 
type of concrete that can be sprayed from a hose   using compressed air. for permanent 
installations, engineers often use   interlocking concrete panels with a decorative 
pattern. these panels not only look pretty,   but they also allow for some movement over 
time and for water to drain through the joints. one disadvantage of soil nails is that the soil 
has to settle a little bit before the strength   of each one kicks in. the nails also have to 
be spaced closely together, requiring a lot of   drilling. in some cases it makes more sense to 
use an active solution, usually called anchors   or tiebacks. just like soil nails, anchors are 
installed in drilled holes at regular spacing,   but you usually need a lot fewer of them. also 
unlike soil nails, they aren't grouted along   their entire length. instead, part of the anchor 
is installed inside a sleeve filled with grease,   so you end up with a bonded length and an unbonded 
length. that's because, once the grout cures,   a hydraulic jack is used to tension each one. the 
unbonded length of the anchor acts like a rubber   band to store that tension force. once the anchor 
is locked off, usually using a nut combined with a   wedge-shaped washer, the tension in the unbonded 
length applies a force to the face of the wall,   holding the soil back. anchored walls 
often have plates, bearing blocks,   or beams called walers to distribute the 
tension force across the length of the wall. one final type of retaining wall uses piles. 
these are vertical members driven or drilled   into the ground. concrete shafts are installed 
with gigantic drill rigs like massive fence posts.   when they are placed in a row touching 
each other, they're called tangent piles.   sometimes they are overlapped, called secant 
piles, to make them more watertight. in this case,   the primary piles are installed without steel 
reinforcement, and before they cure too hard,   secondary piles are drilled partially 
through the primary ones. the secondary   piles have reinforcing steel to provide most of 
the resistance to earth pressure. alternatively,   you can use interlocking steel shapes called 
sheet piling. these are driven into the earth   using humongous hammers or vibratory rigs. pile 
walls depend on the resistance from the soil   below to cantilever up vertically and resist 
the lateral earth pressure. the deeper you go,   the more resistance you can achieve. pile walls 
are often used for temporary excavations during   construction projects because the wall can 
be installed first before digging begins,   ensuring that the excavated faces have 
support for the entirety of construction. all these types of retaining walls 
perform perfectly if designed correctly,   but retaining walls do fail, and there are 
a few reasons why. one reason is just under   designing for lateral earth pressure. it's not 
intuitive how much force soil can apply to a wall,   especially because the slope is often 
holding itself up during construction.   earth pressure behind a wall can build gradually 
such that failure doesn't even start until   many years later. lots of retaining walls are 
built without any involvement from an engineer,   and it's easy to underestimate the loads if you're 
not familiar with soil mechanics. most cities   require that anything taller than around 4 feet or 
1.5 meters be designed by a professional engineer. as i mentioned, soil loads aren't the only forces 
applying to walls. some fail when unanticipated   surcharge loads are introduced like larger 
buildings or heavy vehicles driving too close to   the edge. if you're ever putting something heavy 
near a retaining wall, whether it's building a new   swimming pool or operating a crane, it's usually 
best to have an engineer review beforehand. water is another challenge with retaining walls. 
not only does water pressure add to the earth   pressure, in some climates it can freeze. when 
water freezes, it expands with a force that is   nearly impossible to restrain, and you don't 
want that happening to the face of a wall.   most large walls are built with drainage 
systems to prevent water from building up.   keep an eye out for holes through the 
face of the wall that can let water out,   called weepholes, or pipes that 
collect and carry the water away. finally, soil can shear behind the wall, even 
completely bypassing the wall altogether.   for tall retaining walls with poor soils, 
multiple tiers, or lots of groundwater,   engineers perform a global stability 
analysis as a part of design. this   involves using computer software that 
can compare the loads and strengths along   a huge number of potential shearing planes 
to make sure that a wall won't collapse. look around and you'll see retaining 
walls everywhere holding back   slopes so we all have a little more 
space in our constructed environments.   they might just look like a pretty 
concrete face on the outside,   but now you know the important job they do and 
some of the engineering that makes it possible. it's time for everyone's favorite segment of   me trying to cook while my wife 
tries to capture that on video. the holidays in our house get a little bit   chaotic. that's why we're thankful for 
hellofresh, the sponsor of this video,   for converting cooking from a chore into 
our favorite thing to do on date night. this time our little helper got to open 
the box, but he went to bed so we could   goof around in the kitchen and cook dinner 
for ourselves. most hellofresh meals take   about 30 minutes to make, so they're perfect 
for the window between his bedtime and ours. hellofresh has a bunch of options to choose 
from, depending on your tastes. we get the   vegetarian meals, and the recipes are excellent: 
dishes we would never think to make ourselves. the pre-portioned ingredients mean 
there's less prep and less food waste,   and the packaging is already recycled 
content and most of it is recyclable as well. go try it yourself at hellofresh.com. if you use 
code practical14, you'll get 14 free meals and 3   free gifts. supporting our sponsors helps support 
this channel. that's hellofresh.com and use my   code practical14. thanks, hellofresh, and thank 
you for watching. let me know what you think.