- [matt] why always with the table? - i gotta just get my
pre-mystery tech stretch in. - [matt] you have a floor. - ow wow, that actually like, that
hit me with some force. so if you're familiar
with this little device called the steam deck, it promises to give a ton of performance in a switch like form factor. well, as a lot of people point out, aya neo have been doing
something like that for even longer. and this is the new version, which is called the aya neo next. - [crew member] yes. - that's a very
- is that it? did i get it right? - [ken] it's a very boring name. - it's the next one. that was not as satisfying as
i thought it was going to be. explore the future. oh, oh my god. memorial name plate
ayaneo next, austin evans. can you see that? it's got a cool. all right look, i'm a sucker for things
that have my name on them. the reveal is, oh, that looks like a switch. all right, let's go. wow. - [ken] why? why? (laughs) what do you hope to gain from
smelling all these products? - you've ever been to
a payless shoe store? (laughing) i got this.
(laughing) real talk though, first impressions. this all feels like it's metal. well, this bottom is plastic. but i think the front is actual metal. those are the usb-c on top and on bottom. - [ken] i like the big air flow is also out of your touch points too. - [austin] yeah, yeah.
- it's like in the middle and on the top. - my concern with this as
is the steam deck, right? there's a lot of heft here. if you're used to using the switch, i even use the switch lite. you can play that pretty comfortably for a long period of time. this weighs more, right. it's just simply bigger, which means that you're gonna have a little bit more strain on your wrist because you have to hold it up. but, that being said, this should have a lot more performance. so, this is a ryzen 7 5800u. unlike the steam deck, which is using the newer
style of amd processor, it's a custom 4 core with rdna graphics. this instead is using an 8 core processor, but the older vega graphics. we also have a 2 terabyte ssd inside. how much is the aya neo next? 'cause this is in the go go at the moment, or is this actually on sale yet? - [jared] so, the neo next
is 1345 for the 2 terabyte. - 1300 bucks. that's a little bit more
expensive than the steam deck. now, they did say that this
is not a complete final unit. so this is still early. i think that they're still going through the prototyping phase. so, what i'm not gonna do
is go through benchmarks and all that kind of stuff. let's hop into a game of forza. i mean, we're getting
like mid forties frames per second right now. so, right now i am
running at medium settings at 1280 x 800. i'm a big fan of the triggers. 'cause i believe the first aya neo didn't have analog triggers, right? - [jared] no, it just had
buttons essentially. - [austin] which that ain't it, especially if you ever
play any racing games, you wanna have full analog triggers. to me, it's hard to justify spending over a thousand dollars on any
kind of portable gaming pc, when the steam deck is so close. the steam deck feels
like it's really similar in a lot of ways and half the price. it's tough to justify it. - [jared] i just think saying, oh, you just have to get a steam deck is just not the exact comparison. although they're in the same class, they're not the same product. this allows you to go up
to 2 terabytes of storage. this is much smaller than the steam deck. it has a bigger battery
than the steam deck. it's still gonna come eventually with the same specs as the steam deck. it's a more premium
version of the same thing. sure, you can go buy a civic, but you can also go buy a mercedes. i'm not saying that you shouldn't go buy a steam deck.
- yeah. - [jared] what i'm saying is - you think this is better. - [jared] you should not discount this. and i would think if i had the money, i would rather have a
smaller, more portable device. that's more easy to put into a bag. - well, it sounds like is that we're gonna do a head to head comparison
between the aya neo next and the steam deck as
soon as that comes out. make sure you're subscribed, ring-a-ling the ding-a-ling bell for jared and i and our slug fest, to determine what the best
switch replacement is. that's, just buy the switch actually. (dramatic music) (packaging rumbling) - give it. (laughing) - i thought you were gonna fall for it. i thought, i actually could grab it. hello, friends and welcome
to the razer zephyr mask. oh, i didn't even think
you would think of me like. aw, i'm so excited. so, if you're not familiar
with our friends over at razer. they make some wacky stuff sometimes. we made an entire video
on some of the goofy stuff that razer makes. but this has gotta be top 10 weird things. this is a bluetooth mask,
that has not only rgb because razer, it also
has changeable filters and it has (indistinct), right? (laughs) oh boy, it's got a motor inside. so, you're not just breathing in and out. you're being pure. - [matt] you're circulating air. i have a way that we can test this that you may or may not approve of. - fart on my face. (laughs) - [matt] that's how you get pink eye. - no.
(laughs) - oh, activate. (motor whirring) it's a nice little hump. gotta say if this is actually
how loud it is though, that's kind of wild. put the bottom strap around my nape. what's my nape? - is this?
- oh my god. - the back of your neck.
- the back of your neck. - oh, well i can breathe. i can hear the fans, like - [ken] i don't like that
i can you see your mouth. (laughs) no, no, no, no, no. (laughs) - so, when it comes to the zephyr, i have a few different functions. so right now i'm on low fan speed. i can kinda do this, although honestly, i feel like i want it on high
just cause i need more airflow and now i can change my
internal lighting, right. so, you see my mouth right
now. so i'm going to go blue. - [ken] god, that's even worse. no, no.
(grunts) that's slightly better. (grunts) - would you guys wear one of these? - [jared] nope. - [ken] nope with a 10 foot pole. - [matt] not a chance. - [ken] i don't want people
hyper-focusing on my mouth. those two leds next to it, look really cool, but when it lights your mouth, no. - i personally don't think
that being able to see my mouth is the most important thing for me, but i understand that for a lot of people
- do you know what it is? - that actually is a major selling point. - [ken] no i figured it out. the, the way that the
plastic is curved on it. - yeah. - [ken] it magnifies
the size of your mouth. - [matt] i don't no,
no, no. you stop that. - [jared] is that white? - this looks like logic
[censored] annoying orange. (everyone laughing) (dramatic music) - activate mystery tech, ultimate ears. are these headphones? for your ears only. follow these simple steps
to find your perfect fit. so, typically when it comes to doing these fully custom in-ear monitors, you have to actually go to a space, they need to measure your ears and they essentially build
a custom set of headphones that are exactly meant for you, right. this is what you see like artists, when they're out there
performing and stuff, you know, they have that custom in ear piece in. ballers essentially. - [ken] so, these are
actually not too bad, 250. - that's it? so, just for context, these
custom in-ear monitors typically will cost you, i mean, i think starting at 500 bucks, but they oftentimes will go up to and above a thousand dollars. i mean, they're very expensive. because think about it, you're not just buying a
nice pair of earphones. you're buying something
which has been completely custom molded to your ears. all right, so, we're gonna take our case, we're gonna open it up, place our earbuds in, try them on. okay. you mold both sides at the same time. okay, so we're basically, i'm
going to put them in my ears, adjust them until they
feel comfortable. okay. i mean that pretty much immediately
feels pretty good to me. so, it's just playing a
little bit of like a beat. so, i just need to like gently
adjust them until i find it, where it sounds the best. oh, they're about to start getting warm and molding to my ears. oh boy. oh, it's getting warm. whoa. okay. they're very warm right
now, but it's happening. they're essentially curing the tips. yo, this is very cool. so, i' am gonna go ahead and
put them back in the case now and install the software update. - [ken] battery life
apparently is eight hours of earbud battery life, - [austin] okay.
- 20 hours with the case. - [austin] okay. - [ken] 10 minutes of charge
for 60 minutes of listening. - that all sounds pretty solid. 8 hours is actually
pretty good considering that most earbuds like
airpods and galaxy buds are usually a little closer
to like three to five, i think is probably the norm. there are a couple of concerning things, as far as using these
as like daily earbuds. the case is big, right. i'll try to fit it into my
little pocket, but like, this is always the test. can a pair of earbuds live in your little coin pocket, right. 'cause if it can't, i'm not gonna say i'm not
going to carry them all day, but i only have so many pockets and this is my earbud pocket. ooh, that's chunky. i could carry these. that's borderline too big, but i think it might work. i'll immediately say, i think the left is a
little bit of a better fit than the right. i hear a little bit more
bleed from the right, but let me actually do the test and see. it looks like your ear
buds are fitting well. i said everything's okay.
and it's like, great. everything's good. the thing that i just
kinda paused a little bit with these though, is the sound quality. they don't sound bad. i would put them in the
same category as something like a pair of airpods, but that's not a ringing
endorsement, right. if you think about the
statuses that we take a look at on a previous episode of mystery tech, excellent sound quality. and they have that
really long battery life admittedly in a chunky sort of case, but they're certainly not this expensive. if the fit is the most important
thing you're looking for, then yeah, these are great. but the problem is is that
there are other headphones that are cheaper, that
deliver similar sound quality and a whole lot more features, right. with active noise cancellation,
with the transparency mode, with the ability to easily
swap between devices. these really have one claim to fame. and while it's good, i don't know if it's $250 good when so many other great
bluetooth headphones exist. (dramatic music) hey ken, i have a proposition for you. - [ken] mm-hmm. i'm gonna run this
segment of mystery tech. hello, it's me, austin. greetings friends. today, i'm gonna share
some of my favorite tech with the room, except that i'm going to keep it all, but you guys could get
to watch me open it. (packaging rumbling) the tyranny is over. this right here is the analogue pocket. now analogue has made
a number of different retro inspired devices over the years. in fact, back in like 2016 or something, we actually did a video on
the analogue, what was it? the nes, whatever they called
it, the nt or something, but the pocket is without a doubt, the most ambitious
console they've done yet. the analogue pocket. oh my god. i'm so. this thing is, mm. i am gonna touch it for the first time. it's plastic. i definitely thought this was metal. if you've played a game
boy or any kind of, sort of more old school
console that uses a 1989 lcd, you know the screens are terrible, right. no back lighting. the thing with the analogue pocket is that it has such a modern
high resolution display that it can not only play the game, but you actually can get all
of the little sub pixel detail and accurate color and what not. from what i've seen,
this thing is next level. i'm gonna update the os,
but analogue were very kind to send over quite literally
all of the accessories. the game gear adapter. so, the nice thing is this out of the box, will work with game boy, game boy color and game boy advance games. you can just drop them right in. but if you wanna play some other titles, including game gear games, you can add the little adapters and it'll work for that as well. whereas of the analogue dock. so, if all this wasn't enough, you can hook this up via usb-c and then you are able to play your game in high-quality on a tv, which is nice. although, let's face it. i wanna play it on the actual display. the os is incredibly simple. nanoloop is the digital
work station for gba. i'll make music. i'm making music first. (music beats) i don't know how to make beats.
we're just gonna move on. i'll leave that to josh. okay. josh know what he's doing. okay. let's start with the
original game boy game. (old school game music) oh my god. that looks great. let's go, boys. let's go. oh, no get out
of the way, lewis! - [ken] blue flag, blue flag. - the way that it emulates
the game boy's screen is incredible. because you can see the individual pixels. you also see like the lines,
the go around the pixels. oh, that is sweet. all right. all right. all right. i get the idea. let's actually play a
game that's not terrible. polaris snocross. is this a 60 fps game on a game boy? holy crap. well, that makes such a big
difference to the responsiveness compared to like f1 race, which is like five frames per second. we can use game gear, we can
use a bunch of other things. but, what i'm curious
about is how it handled a game boy advance game, which has not only a different resolution, but also it has a different
aspect for the show. yo, wait, wait, wait. i can tell if i look super closely, it's not perfect scaling
on the game boy advance, but it's still very sharp. (pokemon ruby and sapphire music) and also sounds great too. (pokemon ruby and sapphire music) and the nice thing is if you're
done playing for a minute, hit the button, it goes to sleep. you don't actually have
to like restart your game or save or anything like that. all of you should always save your game. now at first, i was a
little bit turned off by the idea that it's plastic, 'cause i thought, like in all
the images it looked metal, but the more i use it,
it's a nice sturdy plastic. it's a little bit matte,
but also, it's a game boy. kinda actually want it
to be plastic i think. i had no more. i kind of use it, like
the buttons don't have like some super high-end field. they're not like really
tactile or clicky or anything. like they're still a little mushy, but they're mushy in the exact same way that the game boy was. in fact, i'd say they're
actually slightly higher quality than the kind of buttons
you got on a game boy. jared, can you help me
out here for a second. - [jared] what's up? - what are the ship times on
this, on the website right now? - [jared] fulfillment group c, 2023. - [ken] 23? - what are these going for on ebay? - i will sell a
sponsorship on this channel to formally ask for one
of these ahead of 2023. i don't even know if i'll make it to 2023. - you probably won't. (dramatic music) this isn't the end of the segment. i got more items. (ken grunts) we ain't done, son. this is not something that
normally lands on mystery tech. right? but i received something in the mail that i just have to share. can you see this little
pokeball on the letter? for austin, from john p. age 10, please put in a wistery tech. well, this is mystery tech, but how can i say no? you put a pokeball on the front of it. very excited. thank you, john, for your kind contribution to
this episode of mystery tech. oh my goodness. oh my goodness. look at this. all right. so we've got
ourselves a note here. dear austin, first of all, i love your videos and your podcast. shout out, john. - [ken] he listens to the test drivers?
- listens to the podcast. - he has a $138 msi graphics card. also should i use 16 gigs of ram? i hope you love what is in this envelope. your best subscriber, john, age 10. p.s, please feature me a video. also if ken wants one of these envelopes, i can send him one. (laughs)
- [ken] oh, nevermind, i'm all happy now. - john, i would say that
a $130 msi graphics card, probably a good idea, because it's hard to get
your hands on graphics cards. i'd be a little curious on
which msi graphics card it is. and also 16 gigs of ram is
an excellent amount of ram. so, sounds like a plan to me. let me see what you've made
'cause this looks very cool. whoa. john. john, did you just make the pokemon
11 card surfing pikachu pack, a custom pack of pokemon
cards, apparently cost $30. i don't even want to open
this. this is so good. look, he's literally written
everything on the back. you can even flip it up here. it says 9 commons, 1
uncommon, 1 rare and a promo, ages 5 and up, copyright 2021 by john. - this is well thought out.
- john. thank you my friend. oh, well yo, it even opens like a regular
pack of pokemon cards. you can open it from
the top and separate it. yo, let's go. oh, okay. okay, for a second i thought
he drew all the cards. all right. let's see. see what we got from the john
limited edition pack of cards. energy, we've got a fletchling. wow. this is the old school.
that's from steam siege. and espurr. yo john, these are like old school cards. these are like from 2017, 2018, this is a dragonair. john, i appreciate the attention to detail that you also included a reverse and our last card is, oh my goodness. do you see that shine? that's a full art. oh, it's a promo. it is a, eternatus v promo. john, that's sweet. yo, thank you, my friend. all right. we gotta hook up john now. we gotta hook up john. that's so thoughtful.