- so all i know is that asus are sponsoring this video apparently on the brand new proart. now, we recently took a look
at the s16, the zenbook, which i will say is a
very impressive laptop. if you haven't seen that video,
definitely go check it out. but because this is the week of computex, there's a whole lot of stuff going on. i've seen this before. so if you're unfamiliar,
asus, their proart line, it's a little bit more creator focused, and does it really come
with a whole backpack? (material scratches) (chime rings)
quality right there. inside we have the laptop. so it's definitely like a larger device, like 15, 16 inches or so. all right, inside we've
got the asus proart. ooh, this looks a little familiar. this is giving me some g16 vibes. well, okay, so i will actually say though, even though it feels
similar to the zephyrus g16, which i will say is a
terrific 16 inch laptop, we did a video on that at ces. so you can check that out. so it's got the little, the asus dial, i forget, there's a specific name for it, but it actually has a little
dial, which you can use. - [alex] the dial pad. - dial pad, thank you very much. it also does have a full size
sd card slot on the side, so it looks like it's been tweaked a bit. we also have usb-a, usb-c, full size hdmi, the power, headphone
jack, the whole thing. we also have ourselves a, oh
that's a nice looking display. yeah, 3840x2400. so it's a much higher resolution display. let's actually take a
look at the spec here. 64 gigabytes of ram! - [alex] woo!
- 64? and dual ssds, what? whoa, whoa, whoa. hold on a second, hold on a second. we have two 2 terabyte ssds? of course we have the npu built in and a 4070, which is interesting, but it makes a lot of sense, because once you go up to
like the 4080 and the 4090, the power requirements
are significantly higher, and it really means that
if you're gonna put that in a laptop, you need to be thicker with the cooling to match. but a 4070 actually i
think is a good match. so we've got ourselves a 200 watt adapter. you have included in the
box the asus pen 2.0. so if you think about this as a device, this is really meant for creators. you can still game on it of course, just like how you could do
creative tasks on a g16, but they put a little
bit more of the budget toward the super high
resolution oled display, the additional ports, such as
the full-size sd card reader, and you've got massive amounts of ram. you've got this ryzen processor, which of course has the ai functionality. on top of that, you also have stuff like the matte black coating. the only thing i'll say, and i
said this also about the s16, so this is really a personal
sort of thing for me. a 16 inch laptop is a little
bit on the bigger side. like i prefer like a 13, 14 inch, something that's a little
bit easier to carry. now i will give them
that this is quite thin and quite light for something that has this kind of horsepower, like it's easily gonna fit in your bag. - [alex] asus has your back. (shouts in fear) - okay, okay, okay. don't, no more throwing laptops. wait, there's two. - [alex] yeah. - we're not just doing, oh, i thought the video was just on this. what's? - [alex] well, why don't you open the box. - so i'm assuming that this
is a more portable version of the proart. oh, it's a little guy. okay. - [alex] it's your favorite. - oh, i was just saying
that i wanted a smaller one. they have a small, okay. that's not just a little bit smaller. the whole box is like dwarfed by the 16. hold on a second. now what are we looking at here? what is this? is this the proart? - [alex] that is the proart px13. - 13, okay, can i just
take a real quick second? 13 inch laptops are basically dead. everyone has moved on to 14 inch laptops, and that's fine, because if
you've got a 14 inch laptop with really thin bezels, it's about the same size as an old 13. but what i like is a
physically smaller footprint. now i'll say this is
actually a little bit thicker than you might expect from the side. not like crazy, but it's a
little bit of extra thickness. but it is cooling, cooling, cooling. look at this, huge vents on
the side, vents on the bottom, vents also on the back. like this thing, even though it's small, i'm gonna guess that they're packing some real performance in here. this series of proart laptops are essentially the professional
cousins of the gaming line. and i think that's a really smart move, because so many people will
go out and buy a gaming laptop to maybe do some gaming, but
also to get real work done. you know, whether you're
running photoshop, or 3d rendering, or whatever the case is, video editing especially,
there's nothing wrong with that. a lot of gaming laptops have a
pretty color accurate display and plenty of performance, but having a more
dedicated creator option, which could do gaming, but also importantly
give you more features such as that high resolution display, or touchscreen, or whatever
makes a lot of sense. also, i love the matte black
coating on these things. they look sick. inside we have, oh my god, i love it. oh it's so good and it even rotates all the way back. bro. it also has a very large touchpad with the dial pad in the middle. you do have a decent selection of ports, including hdmi, usb-c,
aux, usb-a, micro sd card. but importantly, this is
definitely a touchscreen, 'cause you can rotate all the way around. dude, i irrationally
like how tiny this is. like just compared to the
16, like great laptop, i'm gonna spend some time with it. yeah, of course. but my heart goes out to the little guy. because if you can get
remotely similar performance on the smaller form factor, to me, i'm always gonna be about that. so it's rocking an'00p oled touchscreen. yes, so it is also ryzen powered, and we were outfitted with
32 gigs of ram on this, and a single two terabyte drive. so obviously with these
smaller form factors, not gonna be quite as much space, but importantly it is
also rocking an rtx 4070. holy, this is a little guy, right? it's fairly lightweight. i don't have the exact spec of it on hand, but like it's a small,
thin, 13 inch device. if they could push any
kind of reasonable tdp through this system, this
thing should be solid, just because the cooling seems
to be such a huge part of it. i mean, again, like so much
of the sides, and the top, and the back are dedicated to the vents. - [alex] i can tell you
what the peak tdp is. - peak tdp, hit me. - [alex] 115 watts. - hoo. for context, the s16, which is of course a much larger device,
much less creator focused, that has a 28 watt tdp. can i open it up? i think i'm gonna open it up. (alex laughs) - [alex] he hasn't even turned it on. oh god. - i did turn it on, i did turn it on. no, no, i just wanna look and see, because you know, a thin device is great, and lovely, and wonderful, but if i could instead have a
slightly smaller form factor with a little bit of extra thickness to fit a full-sized battery
and plenty of cooling, i will take that any day. of course, to be super clear, this video sponsored by asus, right? i have a lot of good friends at asus, so i'm not gonna say that
i'm like completely unbiased or anything, but they've been
kind of killing it lately. asus are kind of going out
here doing side quests, making some unique form factors, which, depending on who you
are, might be perfect. there's a little sticker here. can you see that? just a little zoom in there,
on the little sticker there. i'm probably not supposed
to take that off, but if i accidentally let
my screwdriver land on it and accidentally take that screw off, no one will notice, right? you won't tell them if i
don't tell them, right? - [alex] you don't think they're watching this video right now? - [austin] what? you think asus watches my videos? i love you guys. inside we've got, oh my
goodness, look how, look at that. (austin laughs) - [alex] ooh. - wow, okay, first question. that battery looks small, but it's not. dude, this is what i'm talking about. if you look at the physical
size of this battery, it looks really small, right? this is 73 watt hour battery. that is a properly large battery. so even though the battery doesn't take up a huge amount of this sort of space, it's still gonna probably give
you very solid battery life. those speakers are probably gonna drive some pretty decent volume. so it's got a smaller physical ssd, you can swap it out if you want, but it is a smaller form factor. again, because it's a 13 inch laptop, i'm sure they're trying to consolidate it as much as possible. that's a two terabyte drive. but this looks like the
same kind of form factor that you get in something
like a steam deck, or a surface or something,
or an rog ally, i believe. and we also have our wifi 7 module. so there's a lot going on
here with this cooling setup. so we have dual fans, so
we have ourselves the cpu, and i assume the gpu is on this side. but we have, okay, so one heat pipe, 2, 3, 4 heat pipes. now it does have soldered on ram, which i'll be honest, is
becoming very, very common, especially when it comes to
these higher powered cpus, just because they're running
at very, very high clock speeds and you can tell that there's
not exactly a lot of space for anything in here. without knowing the price of this, i'm gonna guess that this
is probably not gonna be insanely expensive. i mean obviously you know
you got a ryzen 9 presumably, like a 4070, it's not gonna be cheap, but you're getting, i think, a lot of cooling capability with this. basically what they're doing here is they're using a
combination of liquid metal and honestly just a
bunch of big heat pipes, big fans, and a lot of cooling, right? like they're cooling
this the old school way, which again comes down to the fact that it's a little bit thicker, but that extra thickness
enables this thing to have way more performance,
way more battery life. look, it's such a complete no-brainer. so lemme put this laptop back together, spend some time with both
the 13 as well as the 16. but i gotta say, on first glance, especially this 13 has my
name written all over it. i mean, how can you not
want a little physical dude with a little bit thickness, but a whole lot of performance,
a whole lot of heart, a whole lot of soul? so let's start out with the powerhouse, the proart p16. right off the bat, the display
is a major differentiator from the g16. we're looking at a 4k
asus lumina oled panel. not only is it a useful
16:10 aspect ratio, but it's also a full touchscreen, which works with the included asus pen. now i know that some of
you might be thinking, isn't this an awful lot like
the rog nebula oled on the g16? and while both displays are impressive, there's a key difference here. the nebula display is tuned
for gaming performance, super high refresh rates, crazy peak brightness, that whole deal. the lumina on the other
hand is laser focused on creative work. think color accuracy, 4k
resolution, color gamut coverage, the stuff that matters to professionals. it's funny, performance wise, both creator and gaming laptops actually have like a pretty
similar demand these days. but what really stands
out to me here is the ram. you can pack the p16 with up
to a whopping 64 gigabytes of 7,500 mega transfers ddr5 memory. that is insane in a laptop, even compared to some
high-end gaming rigs. seriously, i don't care if
you're rendering 8k video or training a complex ai model, you are not going to be hurting
for ram with this beast. well, unless you're one of our producers with a million browser tabs open. alex. - [alex] guilty. - aside from that stampede of ram, you can also spec this thing
with up to an nvidia rtx 4070. that's more than enough horsepower for even the most demanding
4k video editing workflows, plus it offers all the compute
you'll need for ai tasks. now, eagle eyed viewers may have noticed that i haven't really talked
about the elephant in the room, the processor. as of recording this
video, all that i can say is that this is using the new strix point amd next generation mobile apu. we should be seeing updated zen cpu cores, better rdna graphics, and a healthy dose of
npu power for ai tasks. but i'm sure that future
austin will have more details to share down the line. speaking of future austin,
i'm here at computex, where i also got hands-on
with the third new member of the proart family. this is the pz13. now at first glance it looks
like a surface style tablet. there are a couple of major differences between this and the rest of the line. first and foremost,
this is water resistant. so it's not waterproof mind you, but it is designed to be
taken about as a tablet. you can get it a little bit wet. but on top of that, it also does come with the keyboard and trackpad attachment, as
well as the kickstand included. on top of that, this is powered
by a snapdragon processor, which means that of course
it is a copilot+ pc and you should have solid battery life with your tablet form factor. so if you think about
the bigger proart laptops as designed for more
heavy duty creative tasks, this is going to be a little
bit more for graphics work and things that are going to
be a little bit lighter weight. but even still, this is
a really unique member of the proart family. my personal favorite has
to be the much smaller proart px 13. no surprise there, right? i mean, i just can't say enough about the 13 inch form factor. like seriously, i wish more laptop makers would take cues from asus. now it is a little bit thicker to accommodate the robust cooling and the very similar
performance you get to the p16, but you absolutely cannot beat
this level of portability. the performance is pretty
much what you'd expect from a proart. it's almost on par with the p16, only falling behind in
things like maximum ram, storage space, and 115 watts of tdp compared to 120 watts on the p16. but trust me, it's got
more than enough muscle to handle high-res video editing and other demanding creative tasks. now, i do have to say that
i can't fully evaluate the performance of this laptop, mostly because it is running
not only unfinished hardware, but especially unfinished software. so none of the performance
profiles really properly loaded, and some things just
outright aren't working on this early sample just yet. so stuff like the dial pad
is a very cool idea in theory to allow you to easily have shortcuts, or be able to scroll through tools. unfortunately, it's not working
on this device just yet. of course it'll be working on the device once it actually starts shipping, but that kind of just speaks
to a larger overall point, specifically with the px13. this is a somewhat unique
device in the market. so it starts at $1,600. this is the more maxed out configuration, which i assume is a little bit more. but what you're getting at
that fairly expensive price is a ton of theoretical performance. again, i can't fully evaluate right now, but with 115 watts of tdp, with
the ryzen mystery processor, and a 4070 inside, i mean
that's a lot of horsepower that's on tap. and the fact they've done
all this with a large battery in a chassis, which is this sort of small. and i say thick, but you
can see even on the side, like it's not that thick. it's a little bit thicker
like an hdmi or something. and obviously with the 16, which i've not given as much shine, that has pretty much
all the same features, all the same advantages and everything. but like, i mean, let's be real. were you ever gonna doubt that i was gonna
prioritize the little guy? it's just so small. if you put all this together with that mysterious amd processor, which theoretically is a big leap in pretty much every single way, both of these proart laptops
really are a shot in the arm for the proart line. it's a smart move to take what
works with that gaming line and expand it with
features that are designed specifically for creators. so thank you very much to asus
for sponsoring this video. you can check out both the p16 and px13 at the links in the description. and stay tuned, there's still
a whole lot more to come from computex this year. (upbeat music fades)