- we all know that the iphone 12 is fast. however, how fast is it really? to find out, we have a
series of tests to run against the iphone 11 pro, the
samsung galaxy note 20 ultra, as well as the little google pixel 5. to start out with, we're
gonna start out with the good old classic of geekbench 5, one of my favorite
tests to really give you a good sense of the
overall system performance of each of these devices. so we'll start out on the iphone 12 pro, and we'll get started on the 11 pro, on the note 20, as well as on the pixel 5. now, going into this,
i absolutely expected the iphones to do very well here. traditionally the iphone 11 pro has been the most powerful smartphone
that you can buy right now. and the 12 pro promises
to be somewhere in the 15 to 20% better range. now, that doesn't
necessarily mean that it's going to be a massive step forward. it's one thing to have a
higher geek bench score, and it's a very different
thing to actually see that performance in real world use. for example, the google
pixel 5, by far the least powerful phone here, does have something that the iphones lack, which
is a high refresh rate display. i'll just say, as
someone who's been daling that pixel 5 for a little while, the smoothness that you
get from the display can oftentimes make it
feel more responsive than a phone that, while it,
yes, has a lot more power on the inside, doesn't have
that fluidity on the screen. but of course when it
comes to benchmarking and using a phone,
there's a lot more to it than just the smoothness of the scroll. for example, if you are rendering video or playing a game or something, that is where these benchmarks can make a much bigger difference
compared to the just, ah, this feels fast. all right, 1605 single
core, 4033 multicore. that is, well, better
than the iphone 11 pro. so it's not a huge margin
so we have a couple hundred more, just a
little bit less than 300 on single core, about
500 less on multi core. but that is still a
reasonable improvement. and you also have to keep
in mind that specifically with that iphone 12
pro, the a14 chip inside is the basis for all of the new mac chips. so what you see with the
performance on this iphone is probably not going
to be wildly different than the kind of performance that you see in a full fledge mac that we
will be getting fairly shortly, which is impressive in some ways. although that's fast. let's see how the note comes in. and we get 980 single
core, 3246 multi core. so it does get closer on the multi core and that is because both
of these android phones actually have eight core processors, whereas the iphones have six cores. the pixel 5, look, it's
the little guy, right? so it is powered by a
snapdragon 765g processor, a mid range, but a very confident chip. it can't quite compete. but that's fine because
there's a whole lot more to it than just pure benchmarks and pure cpu. i'm not saying that because
i feel bad for the pixel right now. he's like less than half
of any of the others. next up we have a benchmark
which is a little bit more tailored toward the actual web performance of these devices, which is jetstream two. so the way this works
is not wildly different than geekbench so it runs
a series of different tests and then gives you a final score. but this will give you
a much better sense for how performant these devices are when it comes to things like webpages, which when you look at apps, are pretty much everywhere these days. this internet thing, it's got a future. it's funny looking at these phones and just how massive
the note 20 really is. i feel like i'm over big phones in 2020. i want the small boys, i
want the little chunkesis, i want the medium chunkis. okay, we have a score:
182.6 on the 12 pro. and we have 156.7 on the iphone. all right, i mean, that
is roughly consistent with the difference we saw in geekbench. and our score is 73. wow, so the note 20 is
less than half the score of the 11 pro, much less the 12 pro. i mean, there's clearly
a lot more than just the pure hardware going on here. i do think the difference
between safari and chrome is one of the big differences
that we're seeing. so these two are certainly much closer, then there's the gap between
the android and the iphones. so this isn't particularly close. but you know what is close? the segue to our sponsor today, audible. i was much more proud
of that one in my head than i actually am in person. audible of course are the leading provider of spoken word entertainment
and audio books. and recently they've rolled out their new audible plus program, which as a member, gives you access to
not only a wide variety of audible originals, but
also access to a ton of other content including
audiobooks, podcasts, fitness programs, and so much more. it literally is a big
step up from just the old, oh, i listen to a book on
audible every once in a while. they have you covered across the board. if you're an audible
subscriber you get access to one credit per month
which you can use for any audiobook in their library, and there are thousands
and thousands available. so recently i've been listening to artemis by andy weir, the author of the martian. but of course you can pick
literally whatever you want that audible has. and believe when i say,
they've got a lot of options. so what are you waiting for? go check out audible, the
link in the description at audible.com/austin or you
can text austin to 500500. again, that's audible.com/austin or text austin to 500500. and as always, huge shout out to audible for sponsoring this video. so the test that i most wanna
see is the graphics test, specifically when it comes to gaming. so we have 3dmark wildlife. essentially this is a one minute benchmark that does its best to
emulate what it would be like to running a very very high
end game on your device. and immediately the iphones
are doing really well. surprise, surprise. now, this is a short demo,
it's only one minute long, and it is meant to emulate what it is like to play a very very intensive game but short bursty segments. so you're not gonna see
that sort of 20 minute stress test which we're about to do. this is more so the best case
scenario for these phones, almost kind of taking the
cooling out of the equation. 'cause pretty much any phone can run warm for at least a minute. and we have some scores. we have 39 fps on the iphone and wow, we burned three percent
of battery in one minute. wait a minute, hold on, hold on, hold on. the 11 pro beat the 12 pro? i don't know if i believe that. so we burned three percent
of battery on both of these, and the frame rate was way
more inconsistent on the 11 pro so it was 21 to 60 versus 31 to 47. interesting. so we definitely need to run this again. i don't know if i necessarily
trust that the 11 pro is faster, but it's very
clear that the pixel graphics are way way behind. six fps compared to 25
compared to 39 and 42. let's run this one more time and see. that's very interesting. the 11 pro is still consistently staying a little bit above it. god, the pixel's so slagged. wow, the 11 pro beat out the 12 again. are you trying to tell me right now that the 12 pro does not
perform as well in graphic tasks compared to the 11? that's really surprising. so generally speaking,
when it comes to graphics, there are a couple things to watch. first of all, it was the
overall frames per second, so higher is better, smoother. but the downside to that is
that that's just an average. so what you can see here
is that while the average on the 12 pro is lower,
it stays very consistent. it went from 32 to 42 but
it stays very close to 40 the entire time. the 11 pro is way more sort of peaky. so yes, it does go up higher. also there are a lot of
points where it can go lower than that 40 fps line. okay, you know what we need to do. we need to do the stress test. so there's another portion of this test which will allow us to
take a closer look at what these phones will
do under sustained loads. so this is just a one minute benchmark, but the full stress test is 20 minutes. that i think will help us determine whether or not the 11 pro
is just sort of peaking and it's going to hit some
kind of thermal barrier, or if the 12 pro is
legitimately slower in games than the 11 pro. oh, this just got spicy, my friends! so while these benchmarks are running, i have a seek thermal
camera which will give us a little bit of a better idea
of how warm they're getting and specifically where the warm spots are. so first of all, wow,
there's a major difference. the 11 pro is very warm,
that's looking at, what, 43 degrees, but it's spread out across a huge part of the phone. whereas with the 12,
what you can actually see is where the magsafe, the coil is, is slightly cooler. interesting. now we look at the samsung,
i mean, it's not even close, it's nowhere near as warm. we're looking at 35 degrees or so. and the pixel is like ice cold. that's very interesting
because actually in sort of real world use, i've noticed
that out of all these phones, the pixel seems to be a little bit warmer when you're doing things
like running the camera, or doing anything that's mildly intensive. i always find that the
pixel is a little bit more warm to the touch, but part
of that could be because this is an aluminum phone, whereas the other three
all have glass backs. now, all of these phones
have thrawling mechanisms. so essentially as the temperature, either of the processor
or of the actual exterior of the phone gets too hot,
it will pull the power down. first of all, to save your battery life, but also just to keep the phone from being physically too warm. i'm sure at this point, all
of them with the potential exception of the pixel, maybe the note 20 are sort of lowering their
performance as the test goes on. but that being said, i mean, that's a pretty major difference. i have no idea what's
gonna happen when we flip these phones over when the test is done. i have no idea. this really puts it into perspective. the pixel is ice cold by comparison. the note is pretty warm. if i actually touch it,
that's pretty toasty, that's a little bit warmer
than i'd like to actually use. but the 12 and the 11 both
are really really hot. i think there's a clear difference though between totally fine,
pretty warm, very warm, extremely warm. now i guess all that's left
to do is to see exactly what the scores are to
see if all that heat means that the 12 pro can
outperform the 11 pro, or whether the new phone
is just slightly cooler and less powerful? let's see what we've got. so they should be almost done. 12 pro, 20ish fps, so yeah,
we're definitely seeing that these phones have thermal throttled. although you know what, look at that. the 11 pro i can see just
side by side looks to be the same, if not slightly faster. oh, that's really close. all right, so, oh yeah,
you can see right there. look, it definitely kind
of lowered over time. so stability 71% on the 12 versus 64. but the scores were very similar, but i think the 12 pro,
that's a tough one. that's certainly not a
major improvement at all. at all. the first thing i wanna
take a look at is the stability number. so that is the difference
between the best and the worst case scenario. so you can see here that we basically have very consistent performance
on the note up until about the 12 minute line and
then it started to come down. the pixel, though, is
almost a dead even line. you can see that, it is a 94% stability versus 81 on the note. on the iphone, it is significantly worse. 71% and 64%. but that being said, the iphones, even at their worst case
where they're losing a lot of performance,
4600 is still much better than even the best case
score on the note 20. so the best loop is
definitely on the 11, right? if you're looking at the raw performance, the 11 is best. however, if you look at the
way that the performance kinda dropped and came back, short of a couple of low numbers
on the 12 for some reason, it seemed like it held a
little bit more consistent, whereas the 11 definitely
dropped a touch more. so regardless, the iphones,
surprise, surprise, are more powerful than any
android phone out right now. that is not a huge contest. i mean, the fact is the
iphone team has been absolutely killing it on
the spec side of things for many years. but it is not quite as
clear cut going from the 11 to the 12 as you might expect. yeah, on the cpu side, the
12 is the undisputed king. when it comes to graphics,
it's a bit of a toss up. i still think i would
probably take a phone which is close to that
same level of performance but runs a little bit
cooler and doesn't burn up quite so much battery, but that's a little
bit of a toss up there. so curious, which phone do
you think won the speed test? let me know in the comments below. make sure to subscribe to the channel for lots more content like this. until next time, i'm gonna
go enjoy the cool pixel and let the toasty boys
do their own thing.