so the story goes on reddit that when toyota 
released the first lexus (????) ls 400 in 1989,   cadillac engineers from gm took the car apart. their analysis concluded that such a car could not 
be built using their company's existing methods. i cannot confirm this story, which appears in 
a business strategy book without provenance. but nevertheless, the ls 400 and its 
cohort changed automotive history.   it was an incredible car at an amazing price. in this video, we look at how toyota blew open the 
luxury car market with the legendary lexus ls 400. ## beginnings it is the 1980s and the american 
market was in a bit of a funny state. in the prior decade, a confluence of things 
staggered detroit and propelled japanese-made   car imports to prominence. the oil crises 
of the 1970s and the new fuel standards   that followed. the major quality gaps between 
japanese and domestic american cars. so on. the us government eventually intervened. in 1981, 
the reagan administration negotiated the voluntary   export restraint - capping the number of cars 
imported into the united states from japan. as i covered in a previous video, the new 
voluntary export restraint incentivized toyota,   honda, and nissan to open factories in the us. 
so that was in progress throughout this timeline. but the ver also incentivized them to 
make luxury import cars. these compete   less on price than on distinctive 
features like performance, "feel",   or comfort. so they tend to have better profit 
margins, and so are more suited for imports. the japanese carmakers also saw 
a potential danger. in 1981,   bmw entered japan's luxury car market. 
it started off slow, but by 1987,   bmw was japan's top-selling foreign car 
with over 15,000 units sold each year. it was a warning to the japanese car companies 
that tastes can change. and they were, in fact,   changing. if they did not go upscale, 
then someone else might do it first. ## american luxury cars
the big issue however was that toyotas, hondas, and nissans were still largely perceived in 
the american market as small, economy cars. and the existing competition was 
substantial. in the mid-1980s,   the american luxury car market was dominated by 
companies from two countries - the us and germany. 70% of luxury car sales were from the 
american companies - general motors   and ford. from general motors, you had 
the flagship luxury cadillac division. the cadillac brand dates back to 1902 and 
is known for its comfort and prestige. from ford, there was the lincoln luxury brand, 
which competed head-on with the cadillac. general motors' corporate strategy 
targeted various niches using brands.   so "below" the cadillac, general 
motors had the buick and oldsmobile   luxury car brands. these were entry-level 
luxury brands, a bit more understated. so that was 70% of the market. most of the rest 
were german cars - mercedes benz, bmw, audi, and   porsche. people who bought those cars appreciated 
how fun and enjoyable they were to drive. i'll get into more of the differences later, 
but generally speaking. the american luxury   cars focused on comfort and prestige, and 
the european cars focused on raw oomph and   performance. image matters so much here. 
as the president of porsche america said: > "nobody needs a mercedes-benz. nobody needs   a porsche. these decisions are 
made on very emotional factors" ## honda and nissan as seems to be so often the 
case, honda took the first step. in 1983, they started a new division 
- originally code-named channel ii   and later renamed acura. its slogan 
was "precision crafted automobiles". the design intent was to make sporty cars 
with the goal of satisfying the most demanding   drivers. to sell the brand, honda set up an 
entirely separate automotive dealer network. the first acura cars arrived in 1986 - the legend 
and the integra. with their flagship legend car,   acura wanted to make a big, luxurious 
car that competed with the europeans. the base price was around 
$19,500 or $55,000 today.   this was a few thousand dollars below 
the american and german luxury cars,   targeting up-and-coming consumers who 
still can't yet afford those cars. the integra on the other hand was upmarket 
but still affordable. reviews called it an   all-around good sporty hatchback that 
impressively managed to squeeze a lot   of performance out of a smaller engine. its base 
price was $10,500 which is about $30,360 today. in its first full year of sales in 1987, acura 
sold 109,000 cars - more than mercedes-benz or   bmw. about half of those were the 
flagship high-margin legend cars. acura's success validated the strategy. 
the difficult 1970s were over. americans   were indeed getting richer, and 
they wanted to show it off. nissan   began working on their infiniti luxury 
brand. and then there was toyota ... ## the toyopet crown debacle toyota had actually once tried to break 
into the luxury car segment many years ago. in 1958, they brought their "high-end" toyopet   crown car to the united states - their 
first import. the car had sold well in   japan and toyota management felt confident 
that it could compete in the united states. they launched the car with great fanfare and 
high expectations. it looked like a cadillac,   and the first units were displayed and 
sold in glamorous hollywood, california. the price was set at $1,999. with the 
average american family making about   $5,100 annually back then, 
it was definitely a luxury. but the crown flopped in america. the car 
could not live up to its lofty price. famously,   it suffered severe engineering issues in america. the crown had been designed for japan's 
then-unpaved roads. but on american roads,   the crown was very underpowered. its 
top speed was about 60 miles an hour,   and thus it could not keep up 
with other cars on the highway. and if it did hit that speed, the 
car's body would shake so violently   that you supposedly could not look 
out through the rear view mirror. there were also cultural issues with the 
name. "toyopet" worked fine in japan but   it contained two words that people did not 
think of as luxurious - "toy" and "pet". in its first year, toyota sold only 287 
units. sales improved the next year,   but not enough. after less than two years and 1.4 
million dollars lost, toyota withdrew the car. as a result of the debacle, 
the company later adjusted   its product development and launch 
strategies. it was a hard lesson   for the company in fully understanding 
and catering to local driving cultures. after adjustments, the crown did eventually 
find success as hardworking taxi and police   cars. today, it is one of the 
oldest nameplates still on sale. ## the meeting going into the 1980s, toyota did 
not have a luxury car on sale. toyota's most popular car was the $13,500 
camry. their most expensive car was   a $16,000 cressida. both of these are small 
compact cars with a relatively low max speed. but in 1983 - the same year that honda began work   on the acura brand - eiji toyoda held a 
secret meeting at toyota's headquarters. eiji toyoda was the cousin of toyota motor founder 
kiichiro toyoda. he succeeded the company after   kiichiro's passing. eiji had recently stepped 
down as president but remained chairman. in this secret meeting, he asked the company's 
top designers, engineers and managers,   "can we create a four-door luxury 
car to challenge the very best?" the team said "yes", and they truly believed that.   but just because they could doesn't 
mean they should. this effort would   cost hundreds of millions of dollars 
and thousands of man-hours of r&d. shoichiro toyoda - kiichiro's son and eiji's 
successor as president - had wondered at the   time if toyota should stick to its 
bread and butter of making good,   cheap cars. would americans buy 
a high-end machine from toyota? but eiji toyoda believed that the time had come. 
toyota and other japanese cars had come a long   way. their engineers craved a new challenge - 
something to push the limits. and thus started   the top secret project f1. the "f" stood for 
"flagship", and the 1 stood for number one. the name has nothing to do with 
the formula 1 brand. it was also   sometimes called "circle f" because 
that was how they drew it in the room. the f1 would be eiji toyoda's legacy. over 
twenty years after the toyopet crown debacle,   toyota will try the luxury car space again. if it   failed then it would be a long long 
time before they can try once more. ## the f1 project for a typical new car project, 
toyota assigns a team of 200   engineers at the most and budgets 
the project at about half a million. the f1 project would eventually involve 
1,400 engineers as well as 2,300 technicians,   200 support staff, and 60 designers. 
and it would cost upwards of a billion   dollars. but rumors hinted at 
numbers up to three times that. toyota designed the f1 car from the ground-up to   cater to the tastes of a specific type 
of american luxury car buyer. in 1985,   toyota sent a market research group to the us 
to interview dealers and hold focus groups. the team determined that american 
luxury car buyers aged 60 years or   more would stick to their cadillacs and lincolns. but there was a segment of customers 
less beholden to old brands. they were   about 45 to 54 years old with an annual 
household income of $100,000 or $270,000   today. they desired the performance of 
a european car but at a lower price. to craft a high-performance design 
that appealed to this buyer,   five designers moved to laguna beach, california 
to study american luxury lifestyles in person. they rented a house overlooking 
the pacific, ate expensive food,   watched asianometry videos, and rented 
luxury cars. sounds pretty nice. but they   reasoned that to design something for 
that lifestyle, they needed to live it. as it turns out, toyota management did not 
like the designs from that trip. they felt   it was "too american" - too aggressive and sporty. so they made it a bit boxier and 
taller - with a distinct front   grille to make it look more 
like a "classic luxury car". ## no compromises performance-wise toyota wanted no compromises. european luxury cars were fast, but less 
fuel-efficient. a bmw or mercedes-benz can   hit 130 or 140 miles an hour but can 
only do 20 miles per gallon, or less. in the us, any car that does under 22.5 miles per 
gallon would be subject to a gas-guzzler car tax. american cars like cadillac had better 
fuel efficiency - 23 miles per gallon   or better. but those cars' maximum 
speeds were lower - maybe 115 to 120   miles an hour. as i mentioned earlier, they 
emphasize luxurious comfort and prestige. toyota and its chief engineer ichiro 
suzuki - no relation to the mariners   star but i badly wish there was 
- wanted a car that was both. fast - a top speed of 155 miles which was 
higher than what the bmw 735i and benz   420 se did. and fuel efficient - 25 miles 
per gallon on the highway. this not only   avoided the up to $3,800 gas guzzler tax but 
fit the "no compromises" part of their plan. furthermore, high performance means more 
than just speed and efficiency. toyota   also wanted reliability, ease of service, low 
weight, low noise, smoothness and flexibility. ## the engine key to this was the engine - 
the heaviest, most expensive,   and thus most important part 
of the car. that was a ride. early in the process, the team chose to use a 
compact eight-cylinder engine - called a v8.   v8s are well-balanced engines and what all the 
other sports cars had. but what size v8 engine? early iterations in 1985 had a 3.8 liter 
v8 engine. it allowed a top speed of   150 miles an hour and just barely skirted under 
the gas guzzler tax. it seemed satisfactory. then suddenly at the last second, 
suzuki received news. toyota's rival   nissan was also doing a luxury car brand - 
infiniti. and it was rumored - correctly,   as it later turned out - to 
have a big engine, 4+ liters. so ichiro flipped his bat and upscaled the f1   car engine to 4 liters. that gave you 
more power, but also means a bigger,   heavier engine that you must somehow stuff into 
the existing design. but ichiro demanded it. to reduce the engine weight, the team cast the 
engine block - which contains the cylinders - in   aluminium alloys. they did the same for 
key internal parts like the cam covers,   cylinder heads, cam followers, and so on. some of these components - like the cylinder 
heads - had never been done this way before.   entire factories had to be retooled with 
machine tools and custom-made equipment. suzuki had to personally approve any 
weight gain over a third of an ounce.   the final engine - named the 1uz-fe - 
weighed 3,759 pounds - well under the   4,000 pound threshold needed 
to beat the gas guzzler tax. in the end, toyota built 973 prototype engines   for the f1 car. it is considered one 
of the best v8 engines of its time. ## manufacturing during the manufacturing stage, toyota 
produced 450 running prototypes and drove   them over 2.7 million miles. a hundred of those 
car prototypes were crashed for safety tests. at toyota's flagship car factory tahara, 
the company added 300 more inspections than   what any previous toyota had. the company 
designed a new laser-based welding system   for it. unique plates were bonded between the 
steel panels in order to cut down on sound. the interior was designed to strike 
a luxurious atmosphere between that   of american - too plushy - and european 
cars - too hard. it took two years to   decide on the right wood grains, 
tanning methods, and textures. they looked at interior car gadgets like a trip 
computer or a tv but vetoed them in the name   of simplicity. just a stereo and cellular phone. 
even the stereo, toyota said that they spent three   years developing - working with the japanese 
hi-fi company nakamichi on a custom option. i can go on and on, and i think there 
are some great stories. like how suzuki   would not give his final approval to 
the car unless he personally drove   it from los angeles to florida ... via chicago. but the overarching point is that they put a 
lot of effort into this car. let's move on. ## the rollout toyota first unveiled their luxury 
ambitions at the 1987 frankfurt show,   targeting a 1989 release date. to market the car, their advertising 
agency saatchi & saatchi created a   separate sub-team to handle the 
marketing. the lexus brand was   finally unveiled on january 2nd, 
1988 at the greater la auto show. there were 1,500 applicants for a lexus 
dealership. only about a hundred were   chosen out of this initial lot. 
toyota focused on applicants who   really cared about the customer buying experience. dealers had to invest up to $5 million in the   showroom - including even a media wall 
to properly tell the "lexus story". later that november, the car was finally 
unveiled to the press and given the ls 400   name. ls standing for "luxury sedan" and 
400 referring to its 4 liter v8 engine. toyota backed this rollout with a massive 
war chest. in its first year of sales,   toyota spent $50 million to 
advertise their new line of cars. adverts played on tropes of masculinity and 
up and coming success in the business field.   urban white collar workers who were 
getting richer and previously had not   thought about owning a luxury vehicle 
- as indicated by ad headlines like   "introducing a lexus for those who've 
never seen themselves in a lexus". so it was a bit anxious for them 
when the lexus name - chosen for   its "luxury" connotations - got into 
a legal kerfuffle later in 1988. a company in ohio - mead data central 
- sued them for diluting the trademark   for their legal research database product - lexis. a judge put a temporary injunction 
on using the name. toyota finally   won that trademark suit in may 1989 after 
a few nail-biting months. had they lost,   the backups would have been lucidia, luxul, 
luxel, and lexia. which all sound pretty terrible. ## the response when toyota first unveiled the ls 400 in 
november 1988, buick's general manager remarked: > "it's not a foregone conclusion lexus will 
succeed ... it's not as good as won. we've   been outselling the honda acura so we aren't 
shaking in our boots. it's one more competitor. the general feeling in the industry had 
been similar. then the car came out,   and it was so different that people 
could not possibly see it as just   another toyota. reviews liked its comfortable 
ride, agility, turn of speed and quiet travel. the price got a lot of attention. its 
launch base sticker price was $35,000,   pushed up in part by a stronger 
japanese yen. people and the   press went nuts over this. who would 
ever pay so much for a japanese car? but the ls 400 was priced $30,000 less 
than a mercedes 420sel. $10,000 less   than a jaguar and bmw. buyers flocked to what 
they saw as an amazing deal for the dollar. and in true luxury fashion, they paid for 
the best possible configuration. at launch,   toyota also had the lexus es 
250 alongside the ls. despite   being priced at a more reasonable 
$21,000, it did not sell well. basically, the es suffered the iphone 5c 
effect. the customers simply wanted the   better car and could afford it. they 
even bought the higher end version   with better interiors, straining 
toyota's leather trims suppliers. ## taking off toyota sold over 4,000 ls 400 cars 
in the first month of its debut. it seemed like an auspicious start. 
but just three months into the launch,   disaster struck. three types 
of defects were reported,   including two cases involving the 
cruise control not turning off. toyota decided to recall all 8,000 lexus 
ls 400s sold up until then. toyota sent   every ls 400 owner a letter personally signed 
by lexus division manager dave illingworth. then they picked up every car at the owner's home 
- leaving behind a replacement car for them to   use. after repairing the car, they returned it 
with a wash and full tank of gas. all for free. the whole thing was done in 20 days. dealers 
marveled at how efficiently the whole thing was   run. the recall turned out to be one of those 
things that boosted the lexus brand in the   long run - though i am pretty sure toyota would 
have preferred it not happen in the first place. it did not dent sales momentum. in 1990, its 
first full year of sales, lexus sold 63,000   cars - 3,000 more than its expectation. unit sales 
soared to 95,000 units three years later in 1993. the incumbent luxury carmakers now 
faced a set of japanese competitors   offering 90% of the performance 
or better for 60% of the price.   combined with a relatively weak auto 
market in 1989, the effect was rough. in 1989, mercedes sales declined by'% 
- despite offering sales incentives of   $5,000 or more. audi sales also dropped 
by 21%. and sales of porsche cars - whose   lower end cars faced especially 
heavy competition - fell 48%. sales would later rebound after 1991 as the 
europeans car vendors adjusted to this new   competition on the market. for the americans, 
cadillac and lincoln declined throughout the late   80s and early 90s. and the long-term shift into 
suvs and trucks began during this period of time. by 2000, lexus was the top selling 
luxury nameplate in america - topping   the jd power and associates 
surveys throughout the 1990s. ## conclusion before we conclude ... would you like 
to know more? i want to recommend two   fascinating books that i leaned on for this video. first was brian long's "lexus: the challenge 
to create the finest automobile"; and second,   chester dawson's "lexus: the relentless 
pursuit". they weren't the only things   i read for this, but i enjoyed them 
nevertheless. go buy these books today. anyway, lexus and the nissan infiniti 
brand - which launched just a few   months later with a similarly 
massive ad blitz - surpassed   consumer expectations of what 
japanese cars were capable of. and it blazed the strategy for later car companies   trying their own moves up 
into the luxury high end. in 2003, hyundai followed the playbook for the 
launch of their high-end brand - genesis. they   even created a michelin restaurant 
inside a car showcase for potential   customers. i wouldn't be surprised if 
the chinese ev makers aren't studying   it right now for their own future 
leap into the american high end. i am going to end it here. today, lexus remains 
a top tier luxury car brand. and its pioneering   ls 400, a legendary car well-liked 
by those who owned it. its launch,   a massive leap forward for 
the japanese car industry.