- [mr beast] i built two massive cubes so these 100 kids can compete
against these 100 adults. whichever cube has the
most people inside of it after 100 hours, splits
half a million dollars. 100 kids are going head to
head with their parents. - we've just been closed in. doors are closed. we're by ourselves. - are you gonna lose to a bunch of adults? - [all kids] no! - you're not gonna let a bunch
of kids beat you, are you? - [all adults] no! - you do have to split the 500 grand. - i'm a giver, so i
i'll share a little bit. - [mr beast] that's right. only the remaining players
on the winning team splits the half a million dollars. - we just hit an hour! - so far i have been retaining my sanity. - [mr beast] attention, you're
an hour into the challenge and i'll give you a thousand
dollars if you get out. and this is the only time
anyone will be receiving money, unless you win. you have 60 seconds to
decide, starting now. - a thousand dollars is not enough money. - i'm going to leave
for a thousand dollars. - people are leaving! hey, is that your son? wait it's like father, like son. - this is not good. - you are the last one out. let's see the damage. [mr beast] in just one hour, we've eliminated 12 adults and 10 kids. - how y'all gonna leave, and
leave us with like 88 adults? - a lot of people just left. i don't how to feel about that. - [mr beast] and now that
we know who wants to win, there's something we need to take care of. - they gotta sign this. - we have to sign this paper that says, our kids can spend the money responsibly and we won't use it on ourselves. - [mr beast] as long as the kids win. - i can't believe they're
actually signing it. - [mr beast] and chris
brought the bathroom. - i got a toilet! - alright, you're good. how many youtubers does it
take to move a porta-potty? - [chris] poop time! - bathroom! - they just drilled a hole, 'cause it smells really bad in here. - it smells horrible. - [chris] is there somebody in there? - [all] yeah! why didn't you tell me? i'm sorry! enjoy your poop. - i don't know how you do this,
but is this the fart pipe? - that's the fart pipe. - i hope that was sand that fell off. - {nolan] we're five
hours into the challenge. so i left everyone alone until morning to see what they do. - so the boredom's kinda kicked in. we've been looking at these tiles and kinda realized that
we can take 'em off, so. - so, now we're gonna do that. all of them. - who's going to school tomorrow? - take this. stand right there. - hey nolan! - [nolan] yeah! -
- i need you! - stop! why do you guys always do this? - these things are so much fun. - i've got an idea. - yeah? - [mr beast] and the next morning, one of the kids tried to see
how many adults were left. - [tareq] hey! - [nolan] he's trying to cheat! are you trying to tell them? i'm gonna have to escort
you away from the 500 grand. - what was the number? - it was locked. - no! - [nolan] and because of him,
both teams were tied at 78. so let's see if we can
get some people out. - we brought you all oatmeal! - it's not good! - who made this? - [tareq] i don't know, it was not me. - you did a terrible job and i want your cooking license revoked. - what just happened? you just walk out? - wait, whoa! [mr beast] the oatmeal always works. - now that any of you just left, who do you think's winning? - them. - yeah. - the oatmeal is deadly here, it's so bad. - oh no! - [mr beast] since
nobody liked the oatmeal, - it didn't have no sugar. - [ mr beast] i had an idea. if two of you get out, i'll
give everyone taco bell. - [all] no! - [mr beast] now i'm gonna make
the same offer to the adults but i think they might
want something else. - i want a cup of coffee so bad. - coffee. - caffeine! - here's the situation. if you want coffee, two
of you have to get out and i'll go get 75 cups of coffee. you'll do it? - when's this gonna air on the youtube? - the youtube? - [mr beast] nolan promised 75 coffees. let's go see how starbucks reacts. can i have 75 coffees? - [starbucks employee] 75 what? - [mr beast] even though the
kids turned down my offer, a few of them still decided to leave. - what? - somebody's about to step
outta of the circle guys. - [kids] no! - i'm gone. - more money for us as soon as they leave. - we brought the coffee! - thank you so much the coffee, man. - everybody seems so happy
and merry now, thank you . - [mr beast] now we're really
gonna ramp up this challenge. karl, nolan open the doors. in front of each cube is a giant button. at some point in the next 24 hours, this button's gonna turn green. and whichever side presses
the green button first, shrinks the other team's zone. and karl, whenever you feel like it, change the color to green. it's up to you. - do you see this? your foot's an inch away from the line. - you guys have strategy? - we have three people
that are ready to run out. - three? - we all just had coffee, so we're up. - we are jacked! - i'm gonna change the color to blue, and see if we can catch anybody. - that was horrible, karl! - i got out. - [karl] you got out? alright, you came together. come on, let's do this. -
- bye! - there's only 50 of you left. how many do you think are in the adults? - i think like 60. - let's switch the
colors a few more times. then turn it green. - i was definitely here before him though. - they just barely beat you, i'm sorry. - still a letdown for my team. i'm sorry! - look, they love you. - [nolan] it's the end of day two, and already the kids
are down by' people. - hey everybody! i have a new proposition. i think we can all agree oatmeal sucks. if you allow me to shrink your square, i'll give you each a pizza for dinner. - oatmeal, all the way, until we go home. - you have one minute to decide. i'll be back. - [all] pizza, pizza! - [all] oatmeal. oatmeal! - this is all i've wanted all day. - i'm sorry, jimmy's making me do it! - [all] oatmeal. oatmeal! - all right, y'all enjoy. - if i don't make it, this is why. - as promised, i bring pizza! here you go. i got one for each of you. - we got a whole pizza! - i'm gonna cry. - would you say this was
worth shrinking the zone? - [nolan] not much happened
during the day, but at night. - it was way harder than
i thought it was gonna be. - it's getting smaller and smaller. there's like no room in there. - there's 60 adults left. how many kids do you think are left? - if they're getting the same oatmeal we're getting every single day, 15 maybe. - oh, i think we're losing by a lot. - [mr beast] by day four,
people were starting to get really, really, really bored. - whoa! - [mr beast] so we've decided
to give them a surprise. - this is not a drill. hey, do you guys wanna pipe
to talk to your parents? - [all] yeah! - alright, bet. - i'm so excited! - hi! - mama's still here! - jessica? - she's not here! - really? -
- yeah. - yo! - hello! - that's my girl! - i miss y'all so much! - hey, stay strong, stay
away from the red line. i love you, buddy. - sorry guys! - [mr beast] the boys wanted
to play a little prank to see if they could get some people out. - this is an empty briefcase and we're gonna bring it in there and try to get people out with it. hey everybody, do you see this? they can't handle the temptation. - come on, let's go this way. well, you just said that you were gonna get out anyway, right? - yeah. hmm. - they could have had 10
k, but at the same time in all the other videos it was empty. - i don't ever trust what
they're doing out there. - surely the adults are too smart to fall for something like this. - there's no way. attention! - [moms] what? - [mom] no way! - it was just a briefcase. - you know jimmy said he was only giving away the
thousand dollars once. nothing beyond that. - mm-hm. - we're gonna do it again, but this time it's really gonna rock. - why did another person leave? - let's see if we can go four for four. whoever walks out here
is straight up goofy. - now this time with just $1 sticking out. - attention! - bruh, why? - was it the dollar? - no, i didn't even see the dollar. - he also got out for the same thing. but he is a kid. - you're really just terrible. - me, who can blame me? - i'm just gonna show
'em an empty briefcase and if they walk out, so be it. - try to like make a
shot into the briefcase. - i don't think they want it. - surely the adults
will enough confidence. - the adults will be smarter. - it's gonna be embarrassing. - [adult inside] what's in there? - i will point out the kids
didn't fall for this one. - oh, i can believe that. - jimmy hasn't been in since yesterday. and we heard noises on the roof, so we're waiting to see what happens. - now, we're on top of the cube. - with a balloon! - we told the contestants
not to pop these balloons and if they follow those
orders, they won't get punished. - send 'er down. - while we wait to see
if they pop the balloon, i wanna tell you about
our brand sponsor, nerf. this is the nerf mythic gel fire blaster. and watch this. it shoots gel pellets! i wish we had things like
this when we were kids. - this is ridiculous. - these things are crazy. so crazy in fact, that i asked
them if i could make my own. this is the brand new
mr. beast nerf blaster. and as you can tell, the
hopper on ours is smoother. it has a retractable stock,
rechargeable batteries and you can put on semi-fire, which shoots one at a time or full auto. and this cartridge can
hold tons of blasts. - oh, they popped it already! - bring it closer. a little bit closer. we only made a limited supply of these. so click the link in the description and pre-order our mr. beast nerf blaster while you still can. - it's nerf or nothing! - oh, this is so much fun. alright everybody, who has
the note from the balloon? - because you've popped the balloon, we're going to shrink your cube. - nolan literally dropped it on the wall. - so it's nolan's fault? - [all] yes! - no! - [all] screw nolan! - i cannot win. - hey everybody! this is from the kids'
balloon, they popped it. - because you popped the balloon, we're going to shrink your cube. - so you guys passed the test. but while that was going down,
someone did step on the line. karl, if you wanna show them the footage. - right there, but even afterwards, right there your foot's on the line. - i made y'all more money! - thank you for coming out, sir! do you know what you're carrying? - no! -
- a table. - can you follow me? - oh my gosh! - what is this? - before i reveal this, i
need a leader real quick. - right here. - i just need you to simply pick a number between one and five. - two. - alright. this is your cube. this is the kid's cube. - [nolan] the number they
pick decides how many lines will divide the other team's cube. - [all] x, x, x, x, x! - alright! - pick a number between one and five. - three. - oh, okay right in the middle. - [jimmy] boom! now let's reveal what the
adults did to your cube. - oh, it's not that bad. - [mr beast] even though these lines don't take up a lot of space, stepping over them can
cause a lot of mistakes. - it's about to get real
stressful up in here. - be careful when you go to the bathroom. - if i'm honest with you, i
wouldn't cross it that much. why is everybody crossing it? - this is rough. it's gonna be a fun night. - now that you just left, the
adults are done to 50 people which means every single
person in there if they stay, wins $10,000. - that's fantastic. i'm glad that i was the
one to make it happen. - [nolan] none of these kids have gone to school for five days. so i wanted to do something
special for their teacher. - so first off, i want to apologize for borrowing your students. they're currently competing
for half a million dollars. and during the challenge, i asked them who their favorite teacher
was and they said you. so gimme one second. - they like math? - i hope you like math
'cause i'm gonna need you to count how much money this is. - are you kidding me? - no. - are you kidding me? - no. i'm just gonna dump the money right here. - if you win and you are a math student, no homework for the rest of the year. - really? - yes. - okay, i'm gonna go tell them that. - miss mabe, oh god! - she freaked out. she also said that if you guys won, no homework for the rest of the year. - woo, we're gonna win. - [nolan] with only two
hours left in the challenge, i wanted to give them
something besides oatmeal. - so this is a perfect time to see if they like my chocolate bars. attention, i have feastables. and if you say hershey
sucks, i'll give you one. this is our milk chocolate crunch bar. it's about to launch at walmart. - hershey sucks, feastables for the win. - agreed. - hershey sucks. - i agree. - i like hershey's - which one? - you can forget the adults. - [all] three, two, one! - we're 99 hours in. somebody just stepped
out, a little bit ago. we're gonna give you five grand. jimmy didn't give me
permission, but you know what? better to ask for forgiveness. - i agree. - there's only 30 minutes left. - we're gonna win, we're gonna win. - we're just praying
that there's less kids than there is adults. - how many adults do you think are left? - i'd say 73. - we have been in here for days and i'm ready for the adults to win. - really curious to know what's going on with the kids over there. - what's the first thing you're gonna do when you get out of here? - probably shower. - the adults are gonna win. sorry son. - the parents are losing this one. - we started with a hundred
kids and a hundred adults. i can't wait to see their
faces when they walk out. all right. 10, nine, eight, seven, six five, four, three, two, one! the challenge is officially over! everyone, you may exit the squares. come out front! and it's now time to reveal the winners. the winner of the
challenge, by a landslide, were the adults! - we did it. and as a reward for you guys
staying the entire time, we're gonna give each of
you a thousand dollars as a thank you! - so can i find my dad now? - oh my god, you did it buddy! - i don't even know how to feel. i saw my mom. - [mr beast] yeah, go
say hi to your parents! - aw, baby! i knew you could do it! - i missed you! - you made it! - go adults, go adults, go adults! - woo! - thank you. thank you so much.