- have i got a deal for you? amazon.com has a wide selection
of high quality components to build the gaming setup of your dreams. i have none of those. instead, today, we're going to go with
one-star rated products because (laughing amusingly)
stars, who needs 'em? you know i need? good deals. let's build ourselves an
amazon gaming setup, shall we? what do we got? that's a small box. thank you very much. this is deeply concerning. - [jared] the fact that it's
fully sealed and everything and it's still just a maraca. - ace magician, amr5 mini gaming pc. "silent mode: quiet and energy saving, streaming videos." okay. "auto mode: adaptive
performance and office work." or, "performance mode:
unleash power playing games." behind door number one, we've got... well- - [jared] it's so tiny! - it's very lightweight. (everyone laughing amusingly) (gentle rhythmic music) is this the switching mode? yeah, it is! it is, look. silent, auto, and performance. i mean, it's actually pretty cool. so, we've got ourselves a type-c and a couple of usb ports on the top. and on the back, we have more
usb display ports, and hdmi, as well as ethernet, which is nice. it does have an external power brick. but, the real key here is the sticker, "rysen 5,000 series with radeon
graphics," which is cool. this is similar to what you would get in something like an aya neo
or a steam deck or something. you've got amd cpu plus
some integrated gpu. maybe calling it a gaming
pc is a little strong, but for such a small form factor, i mean what you're
essentially getting here is like a mid-range kind of
laptop spec, which is fine. i think this was unfairly
given one star on amazon. i actually think, while i
haven't turned it on yet, this seems neat. - [jared] you don't even
know the price of it yet. - i hate it. - [jared] what? - yeah, well that the way it always works. like, i get excited about something and then someone's like, "it's $16,000!" and it's just like, "well,
i look like an idiot now." i've decided i don't like this thing. how much is it? - [jared] it's $420. - i like it! (jared laughing amusingly) - [jared] i was like, "come on!" - wait, is it actually $420? - [jared] yeah, it's $424. - wait, zoom in on that. - zoom in? - that's got four and 1/2 stars! jared, what happened to doing
a video on one-star items? this is four and 1/2 stars! - [jared] it's got one one-star review. - well, i'll be the judge of that. okay, i saw that, and i was ready for the
zelotes vertical mouse. oh, good lord. these are like six of my
least favorite things. words that start with the
letter "z," vertical, and mouse. - [jared] you didn't even
notice the joystick on it? - what joy... there's a
joystick on the mouse? - [jared] yeah, there's
joystick on the mouse. - [joanna] you don't like mice? - no, mice i'm fine with,
i like most rodents. but, i don't understand the idea behind a joystick on a mouse. we've got a cd, baby! okay, sure. and then, we've got the mouse. this is a horrible, horrible shape. why are you like this? lots of people in my life
use a vertical mouse. i will not shit on said people, i respect everyone's opinion
even though it's wrong. - [jared] you won't trash the people, but you will trash the product, is that what you're trying to get at? - you know what? yeah, that's a good... i'm not trashing you, the person
who uses a vertical mouse, i am trashing said vertical
mouse for being bad. warm tip, not hot tip, warm
tip. (laughing amusingly) zelotes, i don't need your
warm tip, thank you very much. "please, tear off the matte
protective film before use." i will say, even without the
plastic, that don't move good. we've got a couple of buttons
(buttons clicking rapidly) which actually sound pretty decent. of course, you've got
your left and right click and your wheel. so, the idea here is that this is a mouse and it's got a joystick. now, i will say this joystick
feels massively cheap. alright, so i can plug the computer in. oh, i actually turned the pc on. - [jared] oh. - well, it's very rgb. actually, you know what?
that rgb doesn't look bad. so, it's on the home button, it's on the "ace magician" on the top, as well as you've actually got some pretty nice looking
rgb on either side. so, that's silent mode,
auto mode, performance. snuh-purdy. no, snuh-purd-uh-dree. no, no, no, i'ma say it, i'ma say it. snuh-purd-duh-ree. let's take a look at our snpurdiri. okay... - [jared] it looks pretty nice. - [joanna] it's pretty. - look at this typeface! lookit, look at the windows key. it just says "win," but like, ugly. - [jared] which is what you're
gonna do with this keyboard! - okay, it's the cheap kind of rgb, where it's just sort of like a row of rgbs behind whatever their little
layer of diffusion is. wait, actually before we
go too deep into this, how much is the zelotes' warm tip mouse? - [jared] so, that guy is $29. - okay, this is acceptable. a little expensive, but 'cause it's got happy,
fun thing on the top- - [jared] we'll see how
good of a value it is once we actually play with it. - how about my snpurdiri? - [jared] that is also only $29. - that's way too much. - [jared] too much? - for a keyboard? - [jared] a vertical mouse
with a joystick is worth it, but the keyboard- - yeah, but look, this is a bad keyboard, i'm just gonna tell you right now. this video is sponsored by nord vpn. hey, you! yeah, you watching this video right now. i know what you've been looking up! and i'm gonna be honest,
i'm pretty disappointed. okay, well actually, i might not know what
you've been doing online, but your service provider
almost certainly does. luckily, you can take
back your online privacy with nord vpn. with a single click, you can connect to one of nord vpn's over
5,600 servers in 59 countries and begin browsing the internet securely. you can protect up to six of your devices on every major platform,
whether it's windows, ios, or even android tv. but, privacy isn't the only benefit, this also gets you
around geolocked content. i was actually blocked from
watching an f1 race recently while i was in canada. and if i didn't have nord
vpn to get around it, i wouldn't have been able
to record my podcast. nord vpn also has threat protection which blocks ads and trackers, while also scanning
downloaded files from malware in order to add another layer of security to your browsing experience. with a 30-day money back guarantee, you can start browsing safer risk free. not to mention, using my code, you can get an exclusive
discount on a nord vpn plan. so, what are you waiting for? head over to nordvpn.com/overclock and upgrade your internet
browsing experience today. thank you very much to nord
vpn for sponsoring this video. no, i don't want that one. - this is... you don't want this one? - [austin] no, no. - [jared] you don't have a choice anymore. - prechen. i'm about to be preaching
to you about the benefits of the prechen widescreen led
display with a box from 1996. this looks bad, i'm not even
gonna try to sugarcoat it. i feel like we started out strong, we got a little bit sus,
and then we got kinda crap, and then this is gonna be the worst. oh boy, i don't like that at all. (item tumbling) (jared laughing amusingly) - [jared] did it happen to say the resolution of this monitor on the box? - hd. - [jared] well... - we've got the display. - [jared] oh my god, that is the... (plastic clicking cheaply) - [joanna] is that a boomerang? - you know what it
didn't come with? screws. oh no, there's some screws
already tied into this. (tool clicking loudly) do you hear the noise it makes? it's like that echoey,
hollow, cheap plastic. - [jared] you sure that isn't
your creator screwdriver? - how dare you. lttstore.com. - that's my line! you can't take that from me! - how much are they saving
by doing this method? - [jared] not enough
for how much it costs. - how much it costs? how much is monitor, jared? - just the low, low price of $93. - it's 1080p, right? - [jared] 1440 by 900. - boy oh boy, i'm sure it's got lots of high
quality reviews on amazon, right? - [jared] it actually does, it's four stars out of almost 900 ratings. - but, on amazon terms, that
means it's basically one star because 99% of amazon reviews are fake. so, i've got part of this put together, but now my next problem is how do i... so, this goes on here. but, i need some screws and i don't see screws to finish this. like, i don't see them anywhere. can i take some of the
screws out of the bottom? - i was gonna say, can we just... we don't need that many. - well actually, that's gonna work. - [jared] that is the least
stable stand i have ever seen. (jared laughing amusingly) - okay, i feel like you're
just trolling me now with how loose every box is. this is the stn-27 wireless
stereo sound quality headset. you know what they say about
quality, it speaks for itself. okay, so we've got ourselves... it's got a tf card,
which means you can load that micro sd card into
your headphones, baby! hold on a second, just give me one moment, i'll be right back. (gentle rhythmic music continues) - [jared] how's your day going, joanna? - it's alright, how about you? - it's going alright. oh! - [joanna] oh gosh! (joanna and jared laughing amusingly) nope. no, no, no. no. no, thank you. - they got micro usb,
my personal favorite. (gentle playful music) hi, did you hear us say japanese words and come to look at my light up horn? ken bolido, ladies and gentlemen. thank you very much for your
contribution to this video. the level of force these headphones are exerting
on my ears right now, i am losing the blood supply as we speak. - [ken] that looks terrible. (jared laughing amusingly) - how dare you. i think it might be for children. i'm starting to get the impression- - [jared] you mean, austin sized? - children. - it's definitely no razer. - well, i bet it's not razer pricing 'cause this only costs
a low, low price of- - $25. - oh, that's not good. - you didn't buy like weird, cheap stuff, you just got weird stuff. - no, no, no, high quality
one-star items on amazon. - this feels very nice. - you know what they say? five stars might be nice, but
one star is the right price. (magical music) "one-handed mechanical gaming keyboard with rgb back lighting,"
aka half a keyboard. wait, do you see the key? for context, a normal key's like this. this one's like, not even attached. okay. so, we've got ourselves and
our special gaming keyboard, half the keys that we would need, including one, two, three, four, five. we also have a bunch of function keys which do feel like they will fall off. in fact, i feel like i
could just pop 'em off. yep, that's what i thought. can i just point out the font choice? then, we've got our fancy "f" here, as if we're knights in a gilded realm. before we move on, how
much was this keyboard? - oh, that keyboard was... oh, well it's on sale now, but it was $70. - so, you could buy a whole
nice mechanical keyboard, or pay more for half a keyboard. - it's like when you go
to a fancy restaurant and you pay like twice as much and they give you like
half the food, you know? - jared, there any more items? - [jared] there actually is. - there's still more items? - sometimes, you gotta get real work done. and when you need to do that, you're gonna need a
webcam and a microphone. - this is the cmtech. "your crystal clear voices
keep us moving forward." so, when you say condense your microphone, you weren't kidding! that's- - [joanna] condensed. (jared laughing amusingly) - thank you very much, joanna. please, report to the
principal's office, jared. jared, your mother is
here. (laughing amusingly) she brought you a change of pants. (laughing amusingly) can we please have one brand that has an actual
pronounceable name today? "dual cameras of two megapixels," right? alright, this looks a little sus, jared. - [jared] it's just a
webcam, it does nothing else. oh. (gentle rhythmic music) - oh, it's a webcam, yeah, we're good. okay, just double checking. so, it turns left and
right and it turns around. "cmos sensor dual cameras
of two megapixels. max revolution of 1920 by 1080 at 20 fps." if you want your revolution to be 20 fps, join the cause today. subscribe and we'll revolutionize the
youtube subscriber page. how much is my 20 fps masterclass
in cinematic performance? - you're paying about $4 per fps, $80. it's also also currently
unavailable on amazon. - so usually, when that happens on wish, it means that it was
a scam and taken down. i wonder if mr. bezos took a look at the the
content on amazon.com and got a little upset about it. alright, my friends, it is time to put this
gaming pc to the test. and now that we've actually
got things kinda set up, i actually have, surprise, surprise, some good things to say. so, this ace magician
actually is pretty solid. so, for a little over $400, you're getting yourself a rysen 5 5600u, which is a zen 3 6-core
processor, it's really no slouch, and decent if less than
spectacular graphics. but, for this kinda money,
it would be difficult to build a computer that's
gonna be that much more powerful and it's certainly not
gonna be this small. so, i'm actually kind of
optimistic here, no bs. so, it does have ac wifi built in. you can see the rysen 5 5600. and importantly, you do have yourself 16gb of dual-channel memory,
which is really nice. so, while it's time i think
to jump to a game of "cs: go," i'm not just gonna play the game, oh no, we're going to stream it using our wide variety of
high-quality peripherals. behold, by friends, the
glorious cheap gaming pc setup. so, as you can see here, we
have not only the dual webcam which i have lots of fun features on, but also we have the
audio from this microphone and my gaming peripherals. i will say after doing a
little bit of testing here, the audio is not great from this mic. i had to turn it down a whole lot in obs to be vaguely usable. but, you can see here that not only do we have
the shot from the webcam, but also you've got the jared cam too, which is of course very important. now, the webcam, you
can judge for yourself. i think the quality is okay, although the fact that
it's 20 fps is not great. it looks fine. i don't fully understand why
you need the second camera, maybe for like a podcast or something? that's a little weird. but, the fact that these
are only running at 20 fps is not great. this monitor, i will actually
say, is not terrible. i think this is gonna be a
little bit of a trend here. for a bunch of one-star items, while yes, we could have
probably gotten something better, i actually am kind of okay
with it realistically. - [jared] so, is the joystick
on the mouse just wasd, what is it? (gentle rhythmic music continues) - this doesn't function in "cs: go." - oh, okay. - so, i don't know how that's
gonna work, but that's fine. i can't say any part of the setup is actually just the worst. a lot of it's not very good, but i'm actually playing and
streaming relatively okay. hey, we won! if you enjoyed, make sure
to subscribe to this channel and ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling button because otherwise you'll be forced to use
the spurd-uh-murd-uh-derr, and no one wants to do that or hear me say those words again. (gentle rhythmic music fading)