- hey guys, this is austin. is the nintendo switch lite worth it? this is an all-new switch which cuts the price down to $200, which is a fairly significant cut over the $300 current switch. however, to get to that $200 price, they've had to make some sacrifices. now in a lot of ways, the switch lite is actually more of a successor to the 3ds as well as the 2ds xl. around the same price, there
are a lot of similarities, however, the switch of course is a much, much more powerful console. however, it's also portable
only, just like the 3ds is. for context, the switch
lite is about the same price as the new 3ds line, which is interesting because of course this is their
standard portable console. now when you put the
switch lite side by side with the standard switch, one of the major advantages
is really that price. at $300, the switch pretty much doesn't really get sales or price cuts, so by saving a full $100, i think it is going to
be a very compelling deal for a lot of people, as long as you can put up
with some of the compromises. this is a lite version in pretty much every sense of the word. not only do you have the
smaller 5.5 inch screen compared to the 6.2 inch
display on the main switch, but you also lose the
backwards compatibility with joycons. is it backwards compatibility? the compatibility in the first place. so of course one of the major
advantages with the switch is you can slide up to do joycons, you can swap them out
with different colors, however when it comes to the switch lite, this is a fixed single unit which is nice for (mumbles) but it is not nice for
being able to, i don't know, play in tabletop mode, because this doesn't
have a kickstand, either. - [ken] or play with your friends. - friends? who has friends? along with this, you are losing
a couple of the functions of the joycons, including hd rumble as well as the ir support. although to give the switch
lite a little bit of credit, it now does have a full
d pad as opposed to the weird four buttons that
never really made sense unless you split the joycons apart. but you know what, i actually
give this some real credit. because it is now a
single unit body design as opposed to having the joycons, it actually feels a lot more sturdy. now that certainly wasn't a huge issue with the original switch, but because the joycons were on rails, especially as the switch got older, it did have a little bit of flex in it, whereas this actually does
feel like a very solid unit. an absolute unit, as the kids would say. - [ken] s-as the kids would say? - as the kids would say. look, i'm trying to say an absolute unit as i'm holding a turquoise,
like, baby switch right now. it's really hard to do
this with a straight face. (laughter) it's an absolute unit, guys. oh, boy. the switch lite does
still use a usbc port, however looks can be deceiving as this is only purely for power. so the switch lite
doesn't come with a dock, of course it doesn't
come with the joycons, and because of that, you have
no way of connecting this to a tv even if you were
able to hook up something like a third party dock. and that's kind of a bit of a shame, i mean i get that this
is a portable console. i mean, if you think about
it like that it's not so bad. but compared to the standard switch, you're losing a lot of functionality. and you just literally have to use this as, like, the pocket switch. now even thought the switch
lite doesn't come with joycons, you actually can still pair joycons that are of course sold separately. now because there's no
kickstand, you kind of have to find something to prop it up on, but normal joycons do work just fine. however what doesn't
work just fine are, say, the snes controllers that you
can buy from nintendo online, which are cool, except that
you have to use it like this, or nintendo labo doesn't also work. basically you should just
use it as a switch lite in portable mode, not in joycon mode. or alternatively, i'm
sure there's going to be a wonderful range of accessories that will give you a kickstand,
and all kinds of other great, fun things for your switch lite. but that's actually
something i kind of miss, because the kickstand on
the switch is not very good, but it actually is properly usable. whereas this, like, i like the
form factor in handheld mode but when i actually want to set it down, i mean, it's annoying to try
to have to find something to prop it up on. it doesn't really feel like
quite that same kind of portable experience, even
when you do have a couple of joycons, or something like
a pro controller paired. now at this point, you
might just be thinking that this is a worse switch. however it's not quite that simple. so first of all, you do have colors. yes, colors are a feature. so not only do you have
this blue turquoise color, but you also have a little
bit of a yellow color, and by a little bit i mean a lot bit. and there's also this special
edition gray pokemon version. however beyond just the pure colors, what i like about this
hardware is that it feels not only nice and small, i feel like this is a little
bit of a better form factor for portable play, but more importantly, it feels more durable. i know i was kind of talking
about the joycon stuff, but even beyond that,
you have to consider that this is probably the
switch to get for kids, or people who are upgrading their 3ds who maybe aren't the most
careful in the world. now, yes, you still
have the exposed screen, you're probably still going
to scratch it up and what not, but because this has
all this matte plastic and it feels relatively sturdy, i do think this will hold up better than the current switch has. now when you put the
switch lite side by side with it's bigger brother, the first thing i notice is that even though this is a smaller screen, it is the exact same 720p resolution, which means that
technically, this is actually a little bit sharper with
a 267 ppi versus 236. now the sharpness isn't
a massive difference, although it does look
a little bit crisper, but something else i noticed
here is that this seems to be, to my eye, slightly more color accurate. whereas my original launch switch is a little bit on the cooler side, the switch lite seems to
be a little bit warmer, and they are fairly close on brightness. so if you're worried about
sort of making sacrifices by going with the switch
lite on the screen, i honestly think this is
actually a better experience. i find that the bezels
look a little bit smaller on the switch lite, mostly because, well, they are smaller, but they're also body-colored. however something that i
thought was going to be a bigger downgrade but actually
isn't are the speakers. so on the standard switch, you have two front-firing speakers which are facing directly toward you, whereas with the switch lite,
they're kind of on the bottom, however they actually seem
to be sort of oriented toward you. and it is actually very
hard to cover these, honestly it actually doesn't really sound all that much worse
than the bigger brother. for $100 less, at this
point, the switch lite is looking fairly straight forward, right? i mean you've got pretty much everything from the main switch except for the joycons
as well as the tv mode, but in exchange, $100. not a bad discount. and something i think is
really easy to overlook is that for $200, you are getting
a fairly powerful console. there are so many excellent
games that of course not only have been moved
over from the wii u, but are straight up, like,
exclusives on the switch such as astral chain. you've got tons and tons
of multi-platform games such as like fortnite and minecraft. i mean this is a properly
powerful little console. and when you put it side by
side with something like the 3ds it is not even a comparison. this is so much better, the
screen is a world better, man. i just played the 3ds for
the first time in like a year and i forgot how terrible it was. i mean, $200, especially
when you put it in a vacuum, this seems like a really
solid little game console. - [ken] terrible now
compared to, like, a switch? - well, okay, the 3ds
never had a good screen. but the switch is, this is
a legitimately good screen. like it's not quite as sharp
as say, like, a new iphone or galaxy, or something, but
it is a very good screen. when you look at it
side by side with a 3ds, yeah, that's a difference. (laughter) now battery life on the
switch lite is an advantage over the standard switch,
although only kind of. so if you caught a video we did last month on the brand new secret redbox switch, even though it looks
the same on the outside, it actually has dramatically
better battery life at around six hours. whereas this guy is right
in the middle at four, and the original switch
is only at three hours. - is that the new psp? i'll see myself out. - john (mumbles), ladies and gentlemen. (laughter) both the switch lite as
well as the redbox switch have an upgrade nvidia tegra processor, which while they don't run any faster, so you're not going to
get better performance, what you do get is a much
more efficient processor. so on the redbox switch,
because it has a larger battery, you're getting those
huge, huge battery gains, however because the switch
lite is a smaller console it does have a slightly smaller battery. still, though, if you were
coming from an original switch, you are going to get at least
somewhat better battery life on the lite. in a world where the switch lite exists and the redbox doesn't, i mean, you're getting something which is of course fully portable, but importantly, it does
have better battery life. but as soon as you realize
that for $100 more, the redbox switch not only has significantly better battery life, but it does have all the other advantages of a full blown switch, including the joycons and
the docking and everything, it makes this a little
bit of a harder sell. i mean, when you have
a fully portable switch that doesn't have as good a
battery life as a normal switch it kind of, i don't know, it doesn't make it irrelevant, but it makes it a little
bit disappointing, i think. but of course the real question here is is the switch lite worth it? well if you already have a
switch, no, it is definitely not. the redbox is better in
pretty much every way, and the upcoming switch pro will likely be a much, much bigger upgrade. really where the switch
lite shines is that it is a full-fat experience
as long as you're okay with dealing with a portable-only console. i think for a lot of
people, that makes sense. personally, i like playing the switch in portable mode a lot. and the fact that this is
smaller and so much cheaper i think it will mean it
will be a huge, huge seller for nintendo. it's just not quite for everyone. (techno music)