(soft music) - wow. we actually hit our goal of
planting 20 million trees. that's insane. normally i don't make
short videos like this but i have a few very important
things about team trees that i want to tell you, and i just didn't want to
cram it at the end of a video. first, 20 million trees is insane. if they were planted eight feet apart, that's enough trees to
plant around the globe. there's just so many. second, i wanna on the record say that i know i'll get most of
credit for team trees, but i really shouldn't. this all started when i
hit 20 million subscribers, and as a joke, we were like,
let's plant 20 million trees. team trees might have started with me but it definitely outgrew me. over 500,000 unique people
donated to the campaign and hundreds if not thousands
of people with influence promoted it. what i'm trying to say is yes, team trees might have started with me, but it's grown its own brand
and it's way bigger than me. what i genuinely want is
after you watch this video, go to someone who promoted
team trees and just thank them. just say, hey, thank you
for promoting team trees. team trees isn't me. it's a youtube community,
the twitter community, the reddit community, the meme community and many other communities
combined together for good. you guys did school fundraising for trees. you donated your tooth fairy money. you started lemonade stand. you guys were just so
passionate about this project. it was just truly amazing to watch. watching team trees unfold and just seeing you guys care
so much about the environment is just, i don't know
how to put it into words, but i just genuinely, i feel fulfilled. i feel like we're just
doing something good. my third and final point is, yeah, team trees does end soon but i'd love to make this a yearly thing. there are a lot of problems in this world. and if once a year, we can get
the entire internet together to just try to make a change, then i think that's amazing
and i think it's worth doing. so team trees isn't where this ends. we got a lot more to come in the future. and just thank you. anyone who just contributed
to team trees in any way, thank you so much. and i wanna reiterate
its way bigger than me. it's a community. it's many communities that came together and team trees is its own community and i'm just a part of that community. so don't forget, go say thank
you to anyone who promoted it. and i love you guys. if you had no idea what i was
talking about in this video then just click the end
screen video in front of you. basically team trees is
a campaign we started where every dollar you donated, a tree will be planted by
the arbor day foundation, somewhere in the globe. so yeah, click the video right there. it's in front of you. if you want more information, click it.