- good morning. a bunch of folks asked me to make one of these a
day in the life videos to talk about how i do time management in the day, how i structure the routine
to maximize productivity. so here we go. the day starts now, after about
six to eight hours of sleep. now there's periods of my
life where i do sprints, where i'll pull all-nighters,
work crazy hours, and so on. but regularly, i try to
get 6 to 8 hours of sleep plus the mythical epic,
30-minute power nap. i think sleep, diet, and
exercise are essential for productivity. just under, i would say passion and whatever the heck you
need to do to be happy and keep every single day low stress. i might give a shout out to a few products that sponsor the podcast for no reason except that i love using them and that's why we agreed for
them to sponsor the podcast. so click their links in the description to support the videos i make. i'm really fortunate to have
way more sponsors than i need, so i get to choose only
the ones i really love. i'm generally a minimalist guy. i don't like material possessions, but this a ez-bed has been nice. it lets you set the temperature
throughout the night. so for me, what i like is
for it to cool the bed, and then warms up as i wake up. been helping me get some restful sleep. so i start each day when i get out of bed, the first thing, there's a mantra, a list that i have on a sheet
of paper that i go through. so i start by reminding myself
of the current set of rules and constraints on the various addictions, things that drain on my time. so that includes social media. the current rule is i only
check social media when i post, which is one, two, or three times a day for no more than 10 minutes. so that's it. it's very strict. that's one of the main addictions, i think, that's important to control. some people completely remove
themselves from social media. i think that's one of
the possible solutions. but to me that's a little
bit of an easy way out. the hardest thing to do is to really moderate
the use of social media because when you use it a moderation, it actually can bring you joy, it can really connect
you with other people. it's kind of makes me feel amazing when i only check it once or twice a day. but you have to be strict. and then the other rules
are diet and exercise. so i make sure i exercise every
single day no matter what, even if injured. i find a body part, any body part that's not injured and exercise it. and then diet, i just have
a strict diet that i follow within the constraints of
which i can enjoy myself. so for me, that's been keto,
which is very low carb diet. so the first part of the mantra is i remind myself of those rules. it kinda sets the constraints within which the game is to be played. second part of the mantra is gratitude. i visualize and meditate on the idea that i might die today, at any moment today. so i kind of try to accept the notion that today's
my last day on this earth and it's mostly just a
breathe in and out and a pause and a meditation on the fact
that it's freaking amazing that i'm alive, that life is amazing. third is i list out loud, by the way, unless i'm with somebody,
then it's in my head. but i list a set of goals
for the next five years. a set of goals that i have, and these are ambitious big goals that i would like to achieve
in the next five years. fourth is i list more near term goals. for me, that's by the end of 2020. i wanted to do these kinds of things. they're just outta reach but achievable. so if i really work my ass off and with a bit of luck, i can get it done. i mean that really starts
to get me amped up, like let's get to work. fifth part of the mantra, zooming in even further. i actually focus in on the day. i visualize going through
the rest of the day, all the things i think i need to get done. this is really quick, but i
literally visualize myself like in a game of sims,
like on fast forward, running around, getting all
this stuff done successfully. like i visualize both the struggle of it, visualize the hardest part of the day that i have on my to-do list and getting them done, crushing it. but really sort of focusing
on the timing of it, the beat of the day,
and getting it all done. just like a game of sims except for the part where
when you're cooking, you set yourself on
fire and you run around. i miss sims, i miss
video games in general. finally, i go through a set of principles that i strive to live up to as a man. now there's a particular set of phrases that are a little bit cliche, but i think fundamental to who i am. but they center around
compassion, empathy, love, and on the other side of
it is character, integrity, and strength, both physical and mental. so today's a little bit different because i'm also making this video. i don't like it. it's uncomfortable. it's a distraction. it takes away from my focus,
but i'm gonna get the job done. i said, i'm gonna do it, i'll do it. so i'm gonna do the mantra now and next thing hit hard. the deepest work of
the day for four hours, a four hour session that i'll probably feel behind the desk. all right, so i did the mantra, then i drank about a liter of water, went to the bathroom, made a coffee, and now ready to hit the day hard with a four-hour session of deep work, focused on a single thing. no interruptions. if interesting ideas come into my head to try to trick me into pulling
on the thread of that idea, i gently set it aside, write it down on google
doc to address later. so i bring my mind gently back
to the focus of all the task. 'cause ideas keep coming, but you really wanna focus on the task. so the only interruptions
that are allowed is water, coffee, bathroom. and i try to minimize those. usually try to be just once
in that four-hour session. i stop the timer when i take that break. but i don't do anything during that break like social media or any of that stuff. it's really my mind is still
focused on the task at hand and hitting it hard when
i return to the desk. the desk by the way, is a standing desk. they don't sponsor anything,
but i still love them. it's autonomous, you should check it out. pretty inexpensive. sometimes i sit, sometimes i stand. not wearing a suit. i sometimes wear a suit,
especially i'm going to film. i wear a suit when i go outside. i just enjoy the way i
feel when i wear a suit. but at home i'm wearing
a t-shirt and jeans. right now i'm not wearing any pants. just kidding, i'm wearing a jeans. but you wouldn't know it if i didn't, which is the magic of the internet. people who wanna check, i
could do a separate video on my setup. i optimize the heck out of everything. but my first love, my home
is the kinesis keyboard. it's this weird ergonomic keyboard that's probably way too expensive, but i still love it. i'm surrounded by things i love and emacs editor, although i use a lot of modern ids. like today i'm working on tensorflow lite on a samsung galaxy s20, doing some deep learning
on the smartphone. there's a bunch of tricky
undocumented things that i'm trying to accomplish. not looking forward to it because it's gonna be
just a lot of debugging and trying to figure out obscure things. but that's the hardest part of the day. that's the hardest thing on my to-do list. that's what i'm going to focus on. no distractions. that's what this four
hour session is about. i'm usually drained, but happy
at the end of the session. i mean, i'm happy throughout, but i kind of dread this
four hour session every day, which is why i hit it hard early on without reflecting, without thinking, almost like a machine. i just get the job done. that's the way i think about
it and i feel good afterwards, but i don't wanna do
it and i do it anyway. so here we go. i'll see you on the other
end of the four hours. all right, the four hour session is done. i did not get as much done as i wanted, but it's nevertheless a big success 'cause i just grinded it out. zero thoughts about anything else. only took a single
bathroom and water break. so it took about four
hours and 10 minutes. next up i'm gonna do a
little bit social media now, which i need to post
a podcast conversation with david eagleman. brilliant neuroscientist. so i'm just gonna post that, check the comments from the previous day, trying to keep the whole
experience under five minutes and definitely under 10 minutes. and after that, like
i do every single day, no exception is guitar or piano or music. usually, these days it's been guitar. in the human world, i'm currently single. but in the music world,
i'm in an open relationship with this beautiful guitar. open relationship because
i sometimes cheat on her with the acoustic, but mostly electric fender strat. the warm bluesy sound of a fender, kind of like the eric
clapton, jimi hendrix is, brings joy to my heart. so i look forward to this moment. it's an escape. it just makes me happy like a lot of things do, but this is kind of a
private moment of joy. and after that is about an hour and a half to two hours of a private set of moments
of suffering, aka exercise. so here we go. social media, guitar. keep the social media under
10 minutes, no exceptions. and the guitar, sometimes
i'll let it slip, but usually just 20 minutes. all right, i got the social
media and the guitar done. actually there was a bunch of moments where it just brought a smile to my face. both the hilarity and the love. i always really appreciate it. when i check social media moderation, it really does bring me joy. so thank you for that. now it's time to face
the demons in my mind, going on a long run. all the things i don't wanna think about. i usually start out listening
to brown noise as i run. it really focuses my mind,
lets me think deeply. and then about two,
three miles into the run, when i start feeling a little better, i'll switch to listening to an audiobook. i'm currently listening to "the rise and fall of the third reich." recommended highly, great book. rough, but important for our times. if you don't study history,
you're doomed to repeat it. my current exercise routine is run a minimum of six miles every day. and then when i'm about
three or four miles in, i decide how far more i wanna go. i usually don't feel like running, but once i actually get out there, when i say put some of the miles in, you start feeling good sometimes. sometimes not. sometimes it's the drag, but
sometimes you feel really good, and then i'll do the 8,
10, maybe even 12 miles. my hope one day is i'll just keep running and do an ultra marathon just on a whim. now for the usual six to seven mile run, it should take about an hour. and afterwards i do a short, but intense session of
body weight exercises. after the whole crazy pushup, pull-up,
squat challenge that i did, i now do the david goggins-inspired nickel and dime workout
that he talks about. so every single minute, you do five pull-ups and 10
pushups, minute on a minute, and usually it kicks my ass to do about 15 to 20 minutes of that. that's enough. my hope one day is to
get up to like one hour, which is really tough. your muscle is just drained, exhausted, but i find it's a really great intense way to get the exercise in without taking too much
away from your day. hard on the mind, hard on the
body, but good for the soul. by the way, all of this is fasted. so it's been about 14, 16
hours since i've eaten last. i feel great. no food, water, and i've
just taken a salt pill in case i do run for a long time. it's important to have
electrolytes in the body. i love exercising fasted. an empty stomach focuses the mind. i can actually perform extremely well. that's one of the things
i've learned about myself. everybody's different,
but i've actually learned for like martial arts, for combat sports, for intense workouts even, i just personally enjoy
working out fasted. so i guess based on my diet,
but also on my psychology, i perform best when i'm fat adapted, which means i'm a low carb diet. it's probably deep somewhere
in my eastern european genetics that my ancestors will go without food
for long periods of time and then have to wrestle a
bear to the death intensely. so it seems like this is the
kind of thing i enjoy doing. not eating and then doing
intense, focused, hard workouts. makes me feel great. i enjoy it both physically and mentally. all right, let's get to work. all right, the exercise
grind for the day is done. i did seven miles in just
over an hour i think. it's slow pace, really losing myself in
the audiobook to be honest. and then after that, i
did 20 nickel and dimes. that's 20 minutes. every minute you do 10 pushups and five pull-ups. it's a great quick way
to exhaust the muscle. also really good test of mental toughness. 'cause at least for me, at least at home, i really wanna start quitting at about the 10 to 15-minute mark. just the muscles exhausted. you have to pause. it's just unpleasant. takes me back to the month and a half previously that i was
doing the insane challenge. so i love it. it's really quick. 20 minutes, maybe 30 minutes,
depending on the day, and the one hour of the running. feel pretty good. not so good, about 1936, 1937 nazi germany as the audio book is covering, but yeah. really makes me think
about the nature of evil. it puts everything into it, puts everything else into context somehow. you know, studying history
sometimes is a really good way to force me to stop and to acknowledge how weak my mind is and how much stronger it needs to be. if i wanna have a role in this world of making positive change,
i think about nazi germany and what it means to be
a hero in those times. what it means to be a
person that can reverse the decline into evil. i think it's much more
difficult than people realize. i think it means standing
against the masses. it requires the kind of mental
toughness, mental fortitude that i don't think i'm
ready for and i need to be. most likely, hopefully i will
never have to play a role of any importance, but if i do have that opportunity, i need to be able to step up. that's what's studying the '30s. the great depression on
the united states side and the decline into a state
of terror on the european side really makes me think. i know this is a day in the life video, but that's also my days. i as often as possible, try
to think deeply about history, about the state of the world
today, about my own mind, about the science that
i'm fascinated with, which is the science of intelligence and the science of
engineering intelligence. actually, the exercise when
i jump into the shower, which contains the moment of
the day that i dread the most, which is the first minute
that i take a cold shower, i have a bunch of songs that
i know the one minute mark of that i usually put on. it could be as cliche and cheesy as the rocky soundtrack
"we're gonna fly now." i think it's the first solo,
it's the one minute mark. or "fortunate sun" by ccr. or if i really need a boost, i'm an old school metallica fan as well. so "master puppets." i think when he starts singing
is the one minute mark. so here we go. and after that, i'm right back
into the grind of deep work. another four-hour session
of where i continue on a particular task focused
for four hours straight. today i didn't get as much done on the tensorflow lite side, so i'm gonna probably dive right back in. but usually during the shower
and a little bit afterwards, i'm thinking about like
what's the right thing to be focusing on given
what i was able to get done in the first four-hour session. all right, next, fun time is over. we're back to the grind of deep work, the second four-hour session of the day where i remove the rest of the world and focus on a single task. today i'm gonna continue with the tensorflow lite
work on the galaxy s20 for the probably entirety
of the four-hour session. now, depending on the
day, i might eat here, if i'm eating twice a day. today, i don't really feel like it. i'm really focused, really feeling good. again, that's kind of the benefits of the whole intermittent fasting, keto that sometimes you
just don't feel like eating. you feel great. so i'm going to eat just one meal today, which will be after
this four-hour session. and i see this as a kind
of sprint to the finish because the eight hours
in total of the work is really what i aim
to do every single day. the rest of the stuff, there'll be another four-hour session, but it's often more relaxed, more all over the place,
has a few more distractions, a little bit more fun and chaos
and just all over the place. these two four-hour sessions of deep work is really what my day is centered around. so everything is about them. this is where that war of
art, the battle for focus, for gaining focus and holding onto focus, that's what it's all about. some days are really rough. the first session today was easy. i found the focus pretty
quickly and just stayed with it. part of it is because it's
kind of a new activity, it's a new phone i'm playing with and also doing a different
kind of experiment with tensorflow lite. so it's new, it really pulls at you. and even though it was difficult, there was no serious stumbling blocks. like i didn't have to spend a lot of time debugging code and on. so it was easy. let's see what the second
four-hour session is. sometimes it's a grind,
but no matter what, the focus is always just to be present, to be there. if nothing's working, it's not happening, i still stay in that place
and wait for the breakthrough. and the breakthrough always comes. everybody's different i
think of how they discover, focus, inspiration, motivation. but i'm a big believer in
the discipline of ritual. so being there, and even if you don't feel
like it, still being there. even if progress is not being made, still being there for the grind because sometimes just minutes later, there'll be a breakthrough. that's how i feel about deep work. that's how i feel about running too. just taking it one step at a time because some minutes are rough and others are full of bliss and that's just the way,
the journey of hard work, the journey of doing anything difficult. i'll see you on the other
end of the four hours. now, the two big battles
of the day are done. the two four-hour sessions of deep work. time to break the fast. i break the fast with athleticgreens. a sponsor of the podcast, but actually an amazing thing that i love, whether they're a sponsor or not. it covers all the bases that i need with the kind of restricted
keto diet that i have. it has all the things
that a multivitamin has, but a ton of other nutrients as well. i don't know what it looks like to you, but it's actually pretty delicious. i look forward to it. and it just makes me feel good. in case it's interesting,
what i usually eat is some kind of meat, is
some kind of vegetable. so if i eat once a day, that's gonna be about two pounds of meat, a total of 1,800 calories, 2,000 calories for the total meal. if i'm not being very fancy,
it's gonna be ground beef, like this is grass-fed, organic, 85%, so 15% fat, ground beef. in terms of keto, it results
in a good macro breakdown. in terms of taste, i just like it. in terms of cooking, it's also easier because it's just the right amount of fat. when it's mixed with the vegetables, it like it creates a
nonsticky pan situation where i don't have to add any oil. it just mixes nicely and
results in flavorful veggies. but veggies, my favorite
go-to is probably cauliflower. not always. when i really wanna get crazy
and party, i go with carrots. that's my party vegetable,
my ground floor, the place i return to often. my home is cauliflower. heat broccoli though. i love cauliflower and heat broccoli. in this politically divisive world, we have to pick our sides. my side is with cauliflower
against broccoli. what else? so if i'm fasting or not on the keto diet, it's important to get electrolytes. this is weird. this is for long distance running. this is just sodium pills. i think one gram, 1,000
milligrams of sodium in pill form. then there's magnesium glycinate. when i first started keto, i
think i was getting headaches for the first few days. it's the keto flu that people talk about. the salt is what curated
for me was the magnesium. there's a bunch of ways to get potassium. i take it in pill form. it's really just to be careful to make sure you get enough
electrolytes in your diet, especially when i'm fasting, especially when i'm
doing a lot of exercise to balance with the water
and everything like that. finally, i always take fish oil. did not plant. i'm mentioning another
sponsor, but i will. public goods. they sell a bunch of
different kinds of stuff including fish oil. it's all good. i love the minimalist
design of public good stuff. anyway, so much of nutrition science is barely a science really. i like to just listen to my own body and do one person, one
subject scientific experiments of what makes me feel good. that's how i discovered the keto diet. you know, i just look at the science to make sure it's not
unhealthy and it's not. and for the rest of it, i just see what my energy levels are like, how i feel throughout the day in terms of mental performance, in terms of physical performance,
all that kind of stuff. same with the nutrients,
it's pretty minimalist. so i do take stuff if i miss days where i don't take
electrolytes or fish oil, it doesn't really matter, but i feel good. but i find it's nice to make sure you're
getting all the nutrients at least regularly. and like i said, athletic greens help make sure i cover all bases about all the weird stuff
that i should be getting and i'm not even aware of. so... this might be the first and only video i'll ever make in the kitchen. i kind of feel like this
is one of those chef shows where i should be yelling at somebody about their mediocre
performance in the kitchen. so i throw the veggies into boiling water, then drain the water,
then throw in the meat, and then i guess broil it or
whatever the heck the term is. the entire thing takes about 20 minutes, but i only really participate
in the last five minutes when i like, when it's
broiling and i mix it. and sorry if broiling
is not the right term. i don't know what i'm doing, okay? anyway, it's super easy. i enjoy it. it's delicious. i throw some salt based spices in there. and the final result kind of
tastes amazing, makes me happy. after i make the meal, i'll
probably overlay the video of what the final result looks like. i'll often eat it behind the desk, sort of thinking deeply about something, oftentimes about the thing i'm going to do in the next four hour session. just kind of relaxing, enjoying the food, but also just thinking. of course if there was
somebody else here with me, i'll be enjoying the meal with them. there's nothing more beautiful than connecting with other human beings over some delicious food. okay, here we go. all right, i'm done eating. feeling pretty good. don't feel like being on video, but by the way, wearing a
2001 space odyssey shirt. this is where i might be wearing a suit if i'm doing filming,
if i just feel like it. so the next four-hour session
is more relaxed kind of work. it's still really focused,
but there's a bunch of tasks. this is where i might do the email check. now, my rule with email, i check email most three times a day. and the first two times is
just to check for emergencies or respond to an email that takes like less than
30 seconds to respond to and it's kind of important. the third session, which is
during this four-hour period, is when i actually spend, try
to spend no more than an hour, but i go through the emails, i read them. these days, i'm so freaking lucky to be getting just a lot of
kind, thoughtful messages. so i just take them in. it brings me joy, it
brings a smile to my face. one of the favorite
things of the day for me. and i also, if there's
like some of the stuff i have to deal with, i
respond to those emails. that's actually at the end
of the four-hour session. now, i would also be doing video editing and any kind of filming i'm doing, any kind of website design stuff. and also the continuation
of the deep work. so today i didn't finish
the tensorflow lite thing, but i'm close. so i'm gonna probably spend one hour on doing some more tensorflow. then i'm gonna do two
hours for video editing, a podcast i need to be working on. i usually try to put
in an hour or two a day of podcast related stuff. i need to outsource it, i really do, but for now, i'm doing it. and then the last hour would be the, checking the email and so on. and after those four hours, i
do two plus hours of reading, one hour paper, one
hour plus of literature. but we'll get to that. first is four hours, i'm back to it. tensorflow for an hour, two
hours of podcast editing, and then one hour of email. again, very few distractions,
very few breaks. on days like today when
i'm feeling really good, really energetic, this
third four-hour session, i try to make as good as the first two in terms of the deep focus that i achieve. also this time is for
when i don't feel great, i can just lay down
and watch some netflix, watch some documentaries on
youtube, hang out with friends. if i had a girlfriend, this
would be girlfriend time. netflix and chill. for now, i'm doing just
the netflix part of that. anyway, today's deep work, but starting now on any particular day, this is where the possibilities
of chaos are wide open. so i can just do whatever the hell i want. i got some jack daniels, i got
some stoli, smirnoff vodka. i got some peanut butter-flavored whiskey. so i don't drink very often,
pretty rarely actually. but the possibility is always there. the night is always full of possibilities. i'm a big fan of a random adventure and just being lost in it. this is the time for that to happen. but today, as far as i
know, it's tensorflow, adobe premier, some email, then some papers, and some dostoevsky. let's go. all right, i got the
four-hour session done, took just a few minutes longer. i got all of the email done. i got podcast editing and actually just got that
done in just over an hour. so i had some time to do podcast prep where i'm doing some research for a couple of upcoming conversations. and of course, the tensorflow thing, still didn't wrap it up, but put it in the hour that's
on the plate for tomorrow to start again. programming is a grind. what are you gonna do? but i feel really good. i really feel good about the day. i don't know if this is good
a day in the life video, but it's a good day in my life. maybe not exactly in the sense
that it all went perfectly, but in the sense that i put
in very large number of hours of deep focus. i resisted the urge to become distracted. i resisted all of the usual urges. i mean, that's a daily
fight and i want it today, but it's not over. so next i'm gonna do one hour of paper reading. i have a whole system of papers i read. there is every single day
i read at least one paper. today i'm skimming two
machine learning type neuroscience papers that
somebody suggested to me based on the matt belfanti conversation. and then i'm also doing
a deeper read still. this is the second session
of it for the gpt-3 paper. i'm thinking of making a
couple of videos on gpt-3 and just making sure i
get all the details right. there's a bunch of open questions that are not yet understood
about gpt-3, i think. and one of the things
i do when i read papers is think outside of what
the word is just saying. there's obviously all
kinds of different papers. the ones i'm reading today,
both the neuroscience side and gpt-3 are very easy to understand. and it's more like a canvas on which you can project your ideas. so you're taking in the approach, the different architecture,
the the results, understanding the different
plots, the intuitions, like the different
perspectives than the results, but all of that is like very literary, like a single pass to that
paper is almost enough, at least so far. but what the whole
purpose of the process is for me reading a paper like
that is to think deeply beyond the paper. to think what are the
deep questions to ask. and that's what i do with paper reading. again, i have a whole system
that's maybe for another video if anyone gives a damn. that hour is usually pretty painful. so i usually keep it to an hour. like i literally
sometimes am counting down to when to reach an hour
'cause it's kind of hard work. it really requires focus. after that is a little
bit more fun reading. it's nonfiction or fiction depending, right now i'm working through
the major novels of dostoevsky because i'm going to be
talking to tolstoy, dostoevsky, chekhov translators. i don't know when exactly,
but in a few months. maybe in a month, i'll be
going to paris to talk to them. so i'm rereading dostoevsky. i've finished "the idiot." i'm now working through
"crime and punishment," reading it in english,
but i'm also going to try to get to listening to it in russian, like taking it in both languages and trying to understand the music of the different languages
and how they interact, how they connect, what is the gap, what are the things that
are lost in translation, that kind of thing. sometimes i do it at the desk,
sometimes i do it on the bed, going back and forth when i have a lot of energy like i do now, got a little bit of coffee in me, i'll just chill on the bed and read the papers and the books. when i'm starting to
get a little bit tired, i'll jump over to the
desk and back and forth. so that's it. i think i'll wrap up the
day in the life video here 'cause i'll do the one-hour paper reading and then the one hour dostoevsky, and after that jump into
bed and drift into sleep while continuing to read the dostoevsky. but actually, after the
hour of literature reading, i always take a pause and do the part of the mantra
that i do in the morning. that's gratitude. again, it's being thankful that i'm alive, that i survived another day, looking forward to the next day, and just be grateful
for all of the moments that are full of joy in the day. i mean, just even filming this
silly thing, it's like fun. there's a piece of technology
that somehow is capturing this that other people might watch. and then there's like a microphone. i mean, just the entirety
of the technology. everything is magical. everything is magical. reminding myself of that
doesn't take much effort, but just taking a break, taking a pause, just breathing and just saying, "damn, it's good to be alive." 'cause i won't always be alive. the right end's too quickly. so it's a opportunity, a moment to appreciate the entirety of it. i hope this video is interesting
or useful to somebody. i value a few things in this world. one of them is hard work and i try to live by that every day. and the other is, i often always, maybe too much talk about is love and compassion towards other people. so with those two things,
it's one hell of a good life. so i hope that comes through
the way i live my day. this silly video. and if you enjoy it, subscribe, support the kind folks
that for some crazy reason, wanna sponsor the podcast that i make. the podcast just brings me a lot of joy, especially the people i get to meet, the people i get to
talk to on the podcast, but also the community of
people who listen to podcasts. i'm a huge fan of podcasts myself, so this is just a big
gift to be a part of that. and the sponsors support that whole effort and they create awesome stuff. so i get to enjoy and share my love for the
awesome stuff they create. and as a byproduct of that, they enable me to have
enough food and shelter to continue doing these podcasts, which is fundamentally a side
gig for me to the main dream, the main effort that i'm still quietly putting in the hours on. again, thanks for watching. and in your own life,
make sure you work hard and put a little bit of
love out there in the world.