construction is something you probably either love 
or hate, depending on your commute or profession.   obviously, as a civil engineer, it's something 
i think a lot about, and over the past 6 years   of reading emails and comments from people 
who watch practical engineering, i know that   parts of heavy construction are consistently 
misunderstood. also, i talk a lot about failures   and engineering mistakes in my videos because 
i think those stories are worth discussing,   but if that's all you ever hear about the 
civil engineering and construction industries,   you can be forgiven for having an incomplete 
perspective of how things really work.   so i combed through youtube comments 
and emails over the past few years   and pulled together a few of the most 
common misconceptions. i'm grady and this   is practical engineering. in today's episode 
we're debunking some myths about construction. this video is sponsored by brilliant,   the best way to learn math and science 
through problem solving. more on them later. if you're one of those people who hate 
construction, this is probably a frustrating   image: one guy running the excavator and 
everyone else just standing around just watching.   it seems like a familiar scene, especially 
when the project's schedule is dragging along.   but, looks can be deceiving. think of it this 
way: contractors are running an extremely   risky business on relatively thin margins. in 
most cases, they already know how much money   they'll be paid for a project, so the only way 
to make a profit is to carefully manage expenses.   and what's their biggest expense? labor! a 
worker standing around with nothing to do   is the first thing to get cut from a project. 
individual laborers might be paid hourly, but   their employers are paid by the contract and have 
every incentive to get the job done as quickly   and efficiently as possible. so why do we see 
workers standing around? there are a few reasons. firstly, construction is complicated. honestly, 
it's a logistical nightmare to get materials,   subcontractors, tools, equipment, and 
workers in the right place at the right   time. almost every task is sequential, which 
means anything that doesn't line up perfectly   affects the schedule of everything else. 
construction is a hurry-up-and-wait operation,   and the waiting is often easier to spot 
than the hurrying. most of the folks you   see on a construction site, whether they're 
standing around or not, have been or will be   hustling for most of the day, which leads me 
to my second point: construction is hard work. anyone working in the trades will tell 
you that it's a physically demanding job.   you can't just show up at 6am, run a shovel for 10 
hours, go home, and do it again the next day. you   need breaks if you're working hard. standing 
around is often as simple as that: workers   resting from a difficult task. plus a person with 
a shovel isn't that useful when you have a tracked   excavator on site that can do the work of 20. 
so, the laborers you see outside of machines are   often doing jobs that are adjacent to the actual 
work like running tools, directing traffic, or   documenting. that leads me to my third point: not 
everyone on a construction site is a tradesperson. keeping an eye on things is an actual job, 
and in some cases it is more than one.   inspectors are often on site to make sure a 
contractor doesn't misinterpret a design or   build something incorrectly. an engineer may be 
on site to answer questions or check on progress.   and trust me, you don't want us anywhere 
near the cab of a crane or excavator.   safety spotters are sometimes required to 
keep workers out of dangerous situations.   plus, foremen and supervisors are on site 
to direct their crews. these folks are doing   necessary jobs that might look just like standing 
around if you're not familiar with the roles. lastly, construction is often out 
in the open unlike many other jobs.   confirmation bias makes it easy to pass by 
a construction site in a car and notice the   people who aren't actively performing a task while 
ignoring the ones who are. if those construction   workers stepped into any office building, they 
might see you hanging around the water cooler   talking about your favorite youtube channels and 
start a rumor that office workers are so lazy. i made an entire video comparing "roman concrete" 
to its modern equivalent, but i still get emails   and comments all the time about the arcane secrets 
possessed by the ancient romans that have since   been lost to the sands of time. it's not true, 
really. i mean, the ancient roman concrete used in   some structures did have some interesting 
and innovative properties, and the romans   did invest significantly in the durability of 
their streets and roads. but, i think a roman   engineer would be astounded to learn that most 
modern highways handle hundreds of thousands of   trucks that can weigh upwards of 80,000 pounds 
before being replaced. and, i think a roman   engineer might wet their toga if they were to see 
a modern concrete-framed skyscraper. there are a   few reasons why it seems that the romans had us 
outclassed when it comes to structural longevity. first there's survivor bias. we only see the 
structures that lasted these past 2,000 years   and not the vast majority 
of buildings and facilities,   which were destroyed in one way or 
another. second, there's the climate.   i haven't personally been to the parts of 
the world surrounding the mediterranean sea,   but i hear most of them are quite nice. cycles of 
freezing and thawing are absolutely devastating to   almost every part of the constructed environment. 
the ancient romans were in an area particularly   well-suited to making long-lasting concrete 
structures, especially compared to the frozen   wastelands that some other of earth's denizens 
call home. finally, there's just a difference   in society and government. ancient rome was wildly 
different from modern countries in a lot of ways,   but particularly in how much they were willing 
to spend on infrastructure and how they were   willing to treat laborers. modern concrete mixes 
and roadway designs are far superior to those of   ancient rome, but our collective willingness to 
spend money on infrastructure is different too. i think a lot of the feedback i get on roman 
construction is based on the extremely pervasive   sentiment that "we just don't build stuff like we 
used to." it's an easy shortcut to equate quality   with longevity, especially for infrastructure 
projects where we aren't directly involved in   managing the costs. i regularly have people tell 
me that we shouldn't use reinforcing steel in   concrete, because when it corrodes, it decreases 
the lifespan (which is completely true). but also,   unreinforced concrete is essentially 
just brick. and not to disparage masonry,   but there's a lot it can't 
do in structural engineering. a lot of people even go so far as to accuse 
engineers of using planned obsolescence - the   idea that we design things with an intentionally 
limited useful life. and i don't know anything   about consumer goods or devices, but at least in 
civil engineering, those people are exactly right.   we always think about and make conscious decisions 
regarding lifespan during the design of a project.   but it's not to be nefarious or create artificial 
job security. it's because, in simplistic terms,   the capital cost of a construction project and 
its lifespan exist on either side of a spectrum,   and engineers (by necessity) have to choose 
where a project sits between the two.   will you build a bridge that's inexpensive, 
but will have to be replaced in 25 years,   or will you spend twice the money for more 
concrete and more steel to make it last for 50?   we make this decision constantly when 
we pay for things in our own lives,   choosing between alternatives that have 
various costs and benefits. but it's   much more complicated to draw that line as the 
steward of tax dollars for an entire population. that's why engineering exists in the first place. 
with an unlimited budget, my 2-year-old could   design a bridge that carries monster trucks 
over the english channel for a million years.   engineers compare the relative costs and benefits 
of design decisions from start to finish to meet   project requirements, protect public safety, and 
do so with the limited available resources. part   of that is evaluating alternatives like the cheap 
bridge versus the expensive bridge, plus their   long-term maintenance and replacement costs to 
see which one can best meet the project goals. in   that case, planned obsolescence means being a good 
steward of public money (which is always limited),   by not gold-plating where it's not necessary so 
that funds can be used where they're needed most. there's a story about legendary astronaut john 
glenn being asked by a reporter about what it felt   like to be inside the mercury capsule on top of an 
atlas lv-3b rocket before takeoff. he reportedly   said he felt exactly how one would feel sitting on 
top of two million parts - all built by the lowest   bidder on a government contract. and indeed, most 
construction projects are contracted using bids,   and regulations require that public entities award 
the contract to the lowest bidder. those rules are   in place to make sure that the taxpayer is getting 
the most value for their money. but, it doesn't   necessarily mean that our infrastructure 
projects suffer in quality as a result. most construction projects are bid using a 
set of drawings and a book of specifications   that include all the detail necessary 
to build them. an engineer, architect,   or both has gone to great lengths to draw and 
specify exactly what a contractor should build,   often to the tiniest details about products, 
testing, and procedures. you can see for yourself;   just google your city or state, plus 
"standard specifications," and scroll   through what you find to get a sense of 
how detailed contract documents can be.   we go to that level of detail in defining the 
project before construction so that it can be   let for bidding with the confidence that 
an owner will end up with essentially the   same product at the end of construction, 
no matter which contractor wins the job. bidding on contracts is a tough way to win 
work, by the way. imagine if on january 1st,   your employer gave you a list of all the tasks 
that needed to be complete by the end of the year,   and you had to guess how many hours it would take. 
and, if you guessed a higher number than your   coworker, you got fired. and if you guessed lower 
than the actual number of hours it took, too bad,   you only got paid for the hours you guessed. it 
might incentivize you to look for innovative ways   to get your job done more efficiently, but 
(admittedly) it might also encourage you to   cut corners and ignore opportunities to add 
value where it's not explicitly required. many public entities are moving away from 
contracting using the lowest bidder model   for types of procurement that allow them to 
recognize and award other measures of value   than just cost like innovation, schedule, and past 
experience. these alternative delivery methods can   help foster a more collaborative relationship 
between the owner, contractor, and designer,   making the construction process smoother 
and more efficient. but, the lowest bidder   model is still used around the world because it 
generally rewards efficient use of public funds.   after all, john glenn did make it safely to space, 
became the first american to orbit the earth,   and came back with no issues on those two 
million parts provided by the lowest bidders. if you've ever played minecraft, you know 
that at a certain depth below the ground,   you reach an impenetrable layer of 
voxels called bedrock. and indeed,   in most parts of the world, geologic layers do get 
firmer and more stable, the farther down you go.   engineers often take advantage of this fact to 
secure tall buildings and major structures using   deep foundation systems like driven or drilled 
piles. "bedrock" is such a familiar concept   that it's easy to look at the world through 
minecraft-colored glasses and assume there's   (always and everywhere) some firm layer below - 
but not too far from - the surface of the earth,   and all tall buildings and structures must sit 
atop it. but, the real world is a little more   complicated than that. different geologic layers 
may be considered bedrock, depending on whether   you're a well driller, foundation designer, pile 
driver, or geology textbook author. there's no   strict definition of bedrock, and there are 
vast spectrums of soil and rock properties   that might make stable foundations depending 
on the loading and environmental conditions. in engineering especially, there doesn't always 
exist a firm geologic layer at a reasonable depth   below the surface of the earth our buildings and 
structures can be attached to. and even if there   is, that may not be the most cost-effective way 
to meet design requirements. there may be shallow   foundation concepts that are appropriate (and much 
cheaper) depending on the situation. there's a   famous parable about a wise man who built his 
house on the rock, but not every wise man can   afford a piece of property on the rocky side of 
town, especially in today's real estate market.   civil engineers don't always have the luxury 
of founding structures on the most stable of   subgrades, so we've come up with foundations that 
keep structures secure on sand, silt, clay, and   even floating on water. when the rain comes down, 
and the streams rise, and the winds blow and beat   against our structures, they almost always remain 
standing no matter what the geology is below. building infrastructure is such a cool 
confluence of technical fields, combining   engineering, public administration, construction 
management, and a whole lot of skilled trades. i   think one of the easiest shortcuts to success in 
school, your career, or just life in general is   finding opportunities to mix and match areas of 
expertise like this. in niches, there are riches,   as they say. but it's hard to gain technical 
knowledge in outside industries. that's why i'm   thankful for brilliant, the sponsor of today's 
video, for providing interactive courses in   topics that interest me, like this one about using 
logic to debunk false information. sound familiar?   my videos give a thousand foot overview of 
many parts of engineering, but maybe you're   watching one of my videos and thinking, "this 
is for me. this is what i'm interested in."   brilliant gives you the ability to dive into 
math and science topics so you can really learn   them and get ahead in your studies or your 
career. the website is beautifully designed,   and they've put a ton of effort into finding the 
best ways to help you gain technical knowledge   and skills. learn to think like a scientist, 
engineer, or construction manager completely free   at brilliant.org/practicalengineering. you don't 
pay anything to sign up, and the first 200 people   that use the link will get 20% off an annual 
premium subscription. again, it's completely free   to sign up. that link is in the description. thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think.