on april 20, 2023, spacex launched it's first 
orbital test flight of its starship spacecraft   from boca chica on the gulf coast of texas. you 
probably saw this, if not live, at least in the   stunning videos that followed. thanks to nasa 
space flight for giving me permission to use   their footage in this video. starship launched 
aboard the super heavy first stage booster,   and was the tallest and most powerful rocket 
ever launched at the time. there was no payload;   this was a test flight with the goal of 
gathering data not just on the rocket,   but all the various systems involved. 
the rocket itself was exciting to watch:   some of the engines failed to ignite, and a 
few more flamed out early during the launch.   about 40 kilometers above the ground, 
the rocket lost steering control and the   flight termination system was triggered, 
eventually blowing up the whole thing. but a lot of the real excitement was on 
the ground. those raptor engines put out   about twice the thrust of the saturn 
v rocket used in the apollo program.   and, all that thrust, for several moments, 
was directed straight into the concrete base   of the launch pad, or as spacex calls it, 
stage zero. and that concrete base wasn't   really up for the challenge. huge chunks of 
earth and concrete can be seen flying hundreds   of meters through the air during the launch, 
peppering the gulf more than 500 meters away. a fine rain of debris fell over the 
surrounding area, and the damage seen   after the road opened back up was surprising. 
tanks were bent up. debris was strewn across   the facility. and the launch pad itself 
now featured an enormous crater below. although the faa's mishap report hasn't been 
released yet, there's plenty of information   available to discuss. rocket scientists 
and aeronautical engineers get a lot of   well-deserved attention on youtube and around the 
nerdy content-sphere, but when it comes to the   design and construction of launchpads like stage 
zero, that's when civil engineers get to shine!   what happened with stage zero and how do 
engineers design structures to withstand   some of the most extreme conditions 
humans have ever created? i'm grady,   and this is practical engineering. 
today we're talking about launch pads. humans have been launching spacecraft for over 65 
years now. and so far, pretty much the only way   we have to propel a payload to the incredibly 
high speeds and altitudes that task requires,   is rockets. rockets produce enormous amounts 
of thrust by burning fuel and oxidizer in what   amounts to a carefully (or not so carefully) 
controlled explosion. by throwing all that   mass out the back, they're able to accelerate 
forwards. but what happens to that mass once   it's expelled? when the rocket is flying through 
the sky, the gasses from its engines eventually   slow and dissipate into the atmosphere. 
but, most rockets (especially the big ones),   don't get to start in the sky. instead, 
they're launched from the earth's surface,   and the small part of the earth's surface directly 
below them can take a heck of a beating. hot and   corrosive gasses move at incredible speeds and 
often carry abrasive particles along with them. to call a rocket launch "thunderous" 
is often an understatement, because   the sound waves generated are louder than a 
lightning strike and they last longer too. dealing with these extreme loading conditions 
isn't your typical engineering task. it's niche   work. you're not going to find a college 
course or textbook covering the basics of   launch pad design. instead, engineers who 
design these structures work from multiple   directions. they use first principles to try 
and bracket the physics of a launch. they look   at what's worked and what hasn't worked in the 
past. they use computational fluid dynamics,   in other words, simulations, that help 
characterize the velocities and temperatures   and sound pressures so that they can design 
structures to withstand them. but eventually,   you have to use tests to see if your intuitions 
and estimations hold up in the real world. it's no surprise that one of the world leaders 
in successful launchpad engineering is nasa. and   their historic launchpad 39a in cape canaveral, 
florida is a perfect case study. this pad,   and it's sister 39b, were originally 
built for the enormous saturn v rocket,   the cornerstone of the apollo space program 
that first sent astronauts to the moon. just   like the spacex facility in boca chica, 39a is 
situated on a coast with the water out to the   east. most rockets launch in that direction to 
take advantage of earth's rotation. the earth   itself is already rotating to the east, so it 
makes sense to go ahead and take advantage of   that built-in momentum. but some rockets blow 
up before they make it into space. so it's best   to choose a launch location with a huge stretch 
of unpopulated area to the east, like an ocean! launch complex 39 was constructed on merrit 
island, a barrier island east of orlando.   nasa decided early on that water was the best 
way to move the first and second stages of the   saturn v rocket, so several miles of canals were 
dredged out. over three quarters of a million   cubic yards of sand and shells were produced by 
this dredging and used as fill for construction.   some of that material was used to build a special 
road called a crawlerway connecting the vehicle   assembly building to the launchpad. but a lot of 
it was used to construct a flat topped pyramid   80 feet or 24 meters tall. this structure would 
ultimately become the launchpad. if you're a fan   of the channel, you might already be thinking 
what i'm thinking. huge piles of material like   this settle over time, and i have a video 
all about that you can check out after this!   nasa engineers let this structure sit 
before the rest of the launchpad was   built. it's a good thing too, because it 
settled about 4 feet, well over a meter! why did nasa bother building such a 
massive hill when they could have simply   built the pad on the existing ground? 
it was all about the flame deflector:   a curved steel structure that would redirect 
the tremendous plume of rocket exhaust exiting   the saturn v during launch into a monumental 
concrete trench. this would keep the plume   from damaging the sensitive support structures 
around the pad or undermining its foundation. but why not put the trench into the existing 
ground rather than building a massive artificial   hill? the answer is groundwater. siting a launch 
pad so near to the coast comes with the challenge   of being basically at sea level. if you've 
ever dug a hole at the beach, you know the   exact problem the launchpad engineers were facing. 
imagine trying to install expensive and delicate   technology inside that hole. of course we build 
structures below the water table all the time,   and i have a video about that topic too. but 
with the cost and complexity of dewatering the   subsurface, especially considering the extreme 
environment in which pumps and pipes would be   required to operate, it just made more sense 
to build up. on top of that gigantic hill,   thousands of tons of concrete and steel 
were installed to bear the loads of the   launch support structures, the weight of the 
rocket itself while filled with thousands   of pounds of fuel and oxidizer, and of course 
the dynamic forces during a full scale launch. but that's not all. along with the enormous flame trench, 
and the associated flame diverters,   which have gone through various upgrades 
throughout the years, nasa employed a   water deluge system. this is a test of the 
current system on pad 39b. during a launch,   huge volumes of water are released through 
sprayers to absorb the heat and acoustic   energy of the blast, further reducing the 
damage it causes on the surrounding facility. check out this incredible historical 
slow-motion footage of a space shuttle launch. you'll notice a copious flow of water 
both under the main engines on the right,   and under the enormous solid rocket 
boosters on the left. in fact,   a lot of the billowing white clouds you 
see during launches are from the deluge   system as water's rapidly boiled 
off by the extreme temperatures. 39a has seen a lot of launches over the years, 
more than 150. the first launch was the unmanned   apollo 4 in 1967, the first ever launch of 
the saturn v. the bulk of the moon missions   and space shuttles launched from 39a, and more 
recently spacex themselves have launched dozens   of their falcon 9 and several falcon heavy rockets 
from the historic pad! but when you compare it to   the stage zero structure in boca chica, at least 
its configuration during the first orbital test,   the differences are obvious: no flame 
diverter; no water deluge system;   just the world's most powerful rocket pointed 
square at a concrete slab on the ground.   and, i think the results came as a surprise to 
no one who pays attention to these things. elon   himself tweeted in 2020 that leaving out the 
flame diverter could turn out to be a mistake. that concrete, by the way, isn't just the 
ready-mix stuff you buy off the shelf at   the hardware store. i have a whole video about 
refractory concrete that's used to withstand   the incredible heat of furnaces, kilns, and 
rocket launches. this concrete has to be strong,   erosion resistant, insulating, resistant to 
thermal shock, and immune to exposure from   saltwater since launchpads are usually near the 
coast. nasa used a product called fondu fyre at   39a and spacex uses fondag. but even that fancy 
concrete was no match for those raptor engines.   even during the static test fire, there was some 
damage to the concrete pad, and that was only at   about half power. the orbital test and the full 
force of the rocket completely disintegrated the   protective pad and cratered the underlying 
soil, spraying debris particles for miles. in a call after the launch, elon said that, 
although things looked bad on the surface,   the damage to the launch pad could be repaired 
pretty quickly, noting that the outcome of the   test was about what he expected. and even though 
many might have expected the extensive damage   to the pad and surrounding area, it sure wasn't 
mentioned in the environmental assessment required   before spacex could get a license to perform the 
test, whose sole purpose was to document all the   environmental impacts that would be associated 
with building the facility and launching rockets   there. nowhere in the nearly 200-page report 
is a discussion of the enormous debris field   that resulted from the test, and yet there are 
actually quite a few laws against stuff like this. for just one example, there are federal rules 
about filling in wetlands, of which there are   many surrounding the launch facility. if you can't 
do it with a bulldozer, you probably can't do it   with a rocket, and spraying significant volumes 
of soil and concrete into the surrounding area   likely has the regulator's attention for that 
reason alone, not to mention the public safety   aspects of the showering debris. the launch also 
caused a fire in the nearby state park. the faa   has effectively grounded starship pending their 
mishap investigation, and several environmental   groups have already sued the faa over the 
fallout of the launchpad's destruction. even if the faa comes back with no required 
changes moving forward, spacex themselves aren't   planning to do that again, and they've already 
shared their plans for the future. an enormous,   watercooled steel plate design is already 
well under construction as of this writing.   this design is, again, very different 
than what we see at other launch pads,   basically an upside-down shower head directly 
below the vehicle. that's the nature of spacex and   why many find them so exciting. unlike nasa that 
spends years in planning and engineering, spacex   uses rapid development cycles and full-scale 
tests to work toward their eventual goals.   they push their hardware to the limit to learn 
as much as possible, and we get to follow along.   they're betting it will pay off to develop fast 
instead of carefully. but this wasn't just a test   of the hardware. it was also a test of federal 
regulations and the good graces of the people   who live, work, play, and care about the boca 
chica area. and, spacex definitely pushed those   limits as well with their first orbital test. it's 
still yet to be seen what they'll learn from that. i like space and rocket stuff. hopefully 
that's clear. but i'm not as much into it   for the flashy rockets and exciting launches as 
i am into the logistics. all the little pieces   and parts that don't seem obvious at first, 
but they add up to something incredible.   my friend sam at wendover productions is the 
master of talking about the behind-the-scenes   coordination. one of his latest videos, 
the logistics of search and rescue,   is a deep dive into what turns out to be a 
really complicated balance of resources, risks,   and life safety. i had no idea why helicopters 
are so rarely used in search and rescue missions. maybe you've noticed what i have over the past 
few years, which is that all my favorite tv   networks are just running reality shows, and 
the best video content that i actually enjoy   watching is being made my independent 
creators. i won't say it about myself,   but i will say it about brian from real 
engineering, sam from wendover and half   as interesting, reallifelore, and johnny 
harris. they're all making videos that are   more fascinating and thought-provoking than 
any of the old tv shows i miss. sam's series,   the logistics of x (along with a ton more 
excellent content) is only available on nebula,   the streaming platform built by and for 
independent educations creators, including me. nebula is the answer to the question of what 
could happen if the best channels on youtube   didn't have to cater to an algorithm. what if 
viewers supported creators directly instead   of supporting their advertisers? and it 
just keeps getting better and better:   totally ad-free videos from excellent educational 
channels, original series and specials that can't   be found anywhere else, and even classes from 
your favorite creators like devin from legal   eagle and thomas frank. and right now, you 
can get 40% off an annual plan by using the   link below. that's less than $3 a month. my 
videos go live on nebula the day before they   come out on youtube. if watching videos like 
this one is what you do for fun or to relax,   you should have the best viewing experience on 
the internet, especially when it's practically   free like it is right now at the link below. thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think!