- we just hit 100 million subscribers, and from the bottom of my heart, thank you everyone that subscribed. and to celebrate i bought
this ginormous private island, and i'm giving it to one
of you in this video! so, i brought 100 of my
subscribers to compete in four extreme challenges. last one standing wins this island. the first challenge is simple. first 50 people to start a fire and light their torch move on! begin! - see the smoke on that? how is it not lighting? - this isn't easy, guys. he's not giving it away. - do none of you want an island? - i'm trying! - then start a fire faster! - according to our estimate, it's gonna take them on average 20 minutes to start the fire. (contestant yells) really? oh wow! by 20 minutes i meant one minute. - thank you, fire god! - [mrbeast] continue to the raft! - here we go, baby. i'm not going home today. - yes! yes! - the color green, that's
gonna be the color of money. - nothing's lighting up. oh my god! - did he get it? - god bless america! god bless america! - see that ship right there, tariq? - [tariq] yeah. - [mrbeast] that's challenge number two and a literal recreation of squid game. see that pirate ship over there? - [tariq] yes. - [mrbeast] that's challenge number three, and we're literally throwing
people off the ship. trust me, you wanna watch this video. this is the easiest of all the challenges. - yeah! - only 10 spots remain! - come on, come on! (contestant yells) - i freakin' did it! - three spots left! - my flint is worn down. i'm not giving up. let's go! - come on! come on! - this is my one and only chance. there's only two spots left. - come on. come on! let's go! - oh my god! is it lit? is it lit? - [mrbeast] one spot left! (contestants yell) the competition is over! we have our 50 contestants! (contestants cheer) in just one challenge, 50
people lost their chance to win this beautiful private island. and now it's time for
challenge number two, red light, green light because squid game's
our most viewed video, so why not bring it back? and unlike last time, we're
in the middle of the ocean. seriously, the middle of the ocean. bring in the 50 remaining contestants. come on in, come on in. - i'm so freakin' nervous right now. - since you all are subscribers, i assume you saw the
first squid game video. - yeah! - [mrbeast] okay, well, this
one's a little different. only the first 20 to step on the red line or cross it move on, okay? - okay! - the red line, that's
all we're thinking about. 20 people. - there is no time limit. green light. red light. - [nolan] he just completely moved. - we have our first official elimination. green light. red light. chris, i'll give you the chance to do one. - green eggs and ham. i'm sorry, guys. i had to be a little ruthless. - the beauty of this red
light, green light is there's no time limit. i can just put the mic
down and wait 10 minutes. - [nolan] you're looking a little shaky. are you scared? - i gotta win an island. - i can't feel my feet at all, but i'm just just imagining
myself on an island. (harp music) - we're gonna be here a while. does anybody need a snack? - wait, wait. you're definitely eliminated. - [tariq] you did say "red
light, green light" at the end. - red light. red light. let me review the footage
and see if he's correct. - when you were explaining
the rules you said- - red light, green light
is there's no time limit. yeah, we have our first
finisher by technicality. - i was worried i threw it all away, but i thought i heard it. - it was green light. i'm surprised more of you didn't catch on. red light. every word that leaves this
mouth i gotta think it through. green light. red light. ooh! - that was the most
nervewracking thing of my life. - [mrbeast] green light. red light. oh. oh, are you okay? i'd give it to him if it was close, but it was quite a ways away. i love you though. good effort. 15 spots remain for a chance to compete for a private island. green light. red light. well, you're good, you're good. there are two slots remaining. she's obviously gonna cross
look how close she is. please, no one hurt yourself. green light. oh, he got it first. he got it first.
- yeah, baby! - oh my god. - yes! - i was this close. - as a thank you for coming out, we're gonna give all of you $3,000. i appreciate it. everybody, do you see
that raft down there? - [contestants] yeah! - there's only 10 seats in
it, and there are 20 of you. i need to know who the
earliest subscriber here is. since this is our 100
million subscriber special, we wanted to give our earliest subscriber a competitive edge, so we told her this. i need you to eliminate half the people, whoever you want to go. just pick half of them. - no, you're joking. - [mrbeast] but it
didn't take long for her to just start picking people. all right, one down. - have fun, guys! - i'll miss you, man! - i'm gonna go with 39.7. - take it easy! - i'm so sorry, i'm so sorry. - i know this must be hard on you. do you wanna just have someone else pick? - no, i don't wanna go. okay. - oh my god, dude. - wow. - i love you all! it's been a great ride! - oh! - [gabbie] i'm so sorry. - ah, this is brutal. - [gabbie] i'm so sorry. - i'll take it. - no way. - this is terrible. - oh my god. - three from the middle. - no! - come on! - i'm so sorry. - hey, it was not your fault. - [contestant] bro,
right there to my dream. - if any of you win,
you owe this to gabbie 'cause she could've eliminated you. - that's the final 10. (contestants cheer) - that was like a bullet
every time she said someone. - my heart. - and now that we have 10 people, that's the exact amount
that could fit in our raft. follow me. we're gonna tug 'em over to
that pirate ship right there and eliminate some more. welcome. have you ever been on
a pirate ship before? - not once in my life. (dramatic music) - it's been a long journey to get here. you had to fight from 100 down to 10. i don't even know if you
guys notice, but back there, that's the island you
guys are competing for. (contestants cheer) - and half of you aren't
even gonna step foot on it. - [contestant] yeah, we hate you, nolan. - i am so excited to be out here competing for a private island. - i'm already planning out the structure. mansion's gonna go there. - as soon as i win the island, i'm gonna sell it for as
much cash as i can get. - now let's eliminate half of you. (contestants groan) for our next challenge, we
have 10 planks behind me. and attached to each plank is a rope. when we cut the rope, five of them will drop you
and five of them won't. (contestants groan) - that's gonna be wild. - who wants to go first? - i'll do it! - come on up, sir. you can pick any of these 10 planks. just stand on the end of one of those. - this is not a good plank. - all right, right there. are you sure about this plank? everyone, salute him! - it's been real, y'all. - chris, cut the rope! - oh! - all right! he passed. congrats! don't fall off the boat! now all your odds are actually worse. and while she's deciding her plank, i wanna tell you guys about shopify. shopify is an easy to use platform that makes starting a business
as easy as using your phone. can you say, "i love shopify?" - i love shopify. i love shopify, i love shopify. - oh my gosh, it worked! we have two of the five finishers. oh, now your odds are even worse! - no. - pick any of the eight remaining planks. - i'm so nervous for you, bro. - oh, lordy. - i've personally been
using shopify to sell merch since we had three million subscribers, which is crazy 'cause
we're on 100 million now. we also use it to sell our
chocolate bars and so much more. i don't know why, but i have a feeling
this is gonna drop him. - three, two, one. - let's go! - he's safe? three people have already made it. this is extreme luck. - only two spots remain. what don't you like about this plank? - it looks funny. - that plank looks funny? don't pick it then. all right. before we cut the rope, i just wanna let you know
that shopify believes in creators like us and wants
to help us turn our ideas into businesses. isn't that great? - yeah. - chandler, cut the rope. (dramatic music) no way. (contestants yell) there's only five working planks and somehow they picked four of them. - there's only one safe plank left. - oh my god. i was so ready to go swimming. - since these four people
somehow guessed correctly even though it's super
statistically improbable, we just had everyone else line up, and we're gonna start on the end. - i have the carrot of protection. - all right, let's see if the
carrot of protection works. cut it. - oh geez. - go quicker! - oh! oh my god. - oh! - one down! - he fell! - at least now i know the
planks really do work, and they're just lucky. - remember me. - okay, so do you use
shopify to sell anything? - no. - then the gods probably won't bless you. let's see it. (contestant yells) that's what happens when
you don't use shopify. - i'll miss him. - bye. i didn't mean to clap. that was rude. - do any of you winners
wanna cut this next rope? do you wanna cut it? come over here. yeah, don't fall. cut the rope when you want. - i'm praying for you, my boy. - oh snap! wow. - i feel crazy right now. i've never been in open water before, and i think you put bad
juju on me earlier, jimmy. - oh snap. you guys wanna know one of the
great things about shopify? - what?
- what? - you can sell online, in
person, and through social media. good luck. go ahead and cut the rope. she should be fine. - you were wrong. - oh, they just fell! - we love you, gabbie. - oh my god! - and now two remain. - you guys gotta be feeling great. - no. - [chris] 50/50 great. - i am so scared. - one is dropping. one is moving on. there's never been a better
time to make a shopify store. just go to shopify.com/mrbeast. and i'm gonna pick 100
random people that do and literally be your first
customer on your store. i'm gonna go on there and order
an item from your website. - i'm shaking. - and for the last two, i think
we cut 'em at the same time. - it all comes down to this. - gonna see who goes in the water and who goes to the island. let's go! (everyone yells) - [mrbeast] and that is our final victor! - 100 people. we're the five left. - hey, sorry you didn't win an island! thanks for coming out! - love you, gabbie! - captain, set sail for the island. welcome to the island. look how beautiful this beach is. - this is it. - and one of you is winning it. the other four, i don't know. and the island comes with
complimentary golf carts. everyone hop on board. this island has a cabana, a helicopter pad, a beautiful pool. it is nice. - maybe i won't sell the island anymore. - i mean, yeah, it's pretty beautiful. - this island is amazing.
- this is absolutely unreal life changing. - and now we have one final challenge to decide which one of
you wins the island. - let's go! - but before we do that
challenge, i have a proposition. i'm gonna hand each of
you a check for $50,000. here you go. here's 50 grand. which one of you subscribed the latest? all right, come over here. do you wanna burn this $50,000
and compete for the island or keep 50 grand and leave? - keep it, keep it. - it's a lot. i'm a competitor. i'm not using that. - oh my god. all right! this man's- - going for the island, baby! - [mrbeast] he just lit 50 grand on fire. - that could be the biggest
mistake of his life. - you want 50 grand in cash
or to compete for an island? - i'll compete for the island. - really? oh my gosh. first two people said no to the money. how about you? 50 grand's a lot. - $50,000 couldn't even pay
for a year's worth of tuition. - oh my gosh. that's sad. - i'll take my chances. - she wants an island! - oh my gosh. wow! if you stay in, you only
have a 25% chance of winning. - this is the hardest decision
i've ever had to make, but- - are you gonna say no to $50,000? - we're going for the island, baby. - [chris] oh my goodness. no! - wow. that's crazy. i just saved $200,000. am i gonna save another 50? - earlier today i was
like this close to losing. i stayed in and everything
else has been luck so far and i've had great luck. i wanna keep trying. - no way, no way. oh my god. only one of you is winning this island. oh my god. and for the final challenge, we have our 100 million
subscriber play button. taped to the back of it
is the deed to the island. i'm gonna go hide this, and whoever finds it
first wins the island. all right, blindfold them. - blindfold! blindfold! blindfold! - all right, we're blindfolded. - i'm going to hide the play button. keep 'em distracted, chris. i'm gonna drive really far away, so they think we hid it far away, but then i'm gonna come back
and hide it in front of them. - that's exactly what i was thinking. - i have to get into the
mind of jimmy right now. - i know exactly where
jimmy's gonna hide it. he's gonna hide it in
the spot that i find it. - what? - that's exactly where it's gonna be. (nolan laughs) - [chandler] we should
just throw it in the ocean. - you know this is our 100
million subscriber play button? - we only get one? - we're not throwing it in the ocean! - from airports to pirate ships to barges, it's been an experience
i will never forget, that's for sure. - part of me wishes i took the 50,000, but i just had the gut
feeling just to keep going and just keep pushing for it. - i'm gonna park the golf
cart here, so they don't hear. if you look over there,
you'll see the contestants. they won't expect us
to hide it this close. i say we hide it in these trees. - this should be good. - after i lost an island, i
had nightmares for over a year. this will haunt you for
the rest of your life. - you may now remove your blindfolds! you know the deal. first one to find the play
button wins the island. good luck. - [chris] go! - [contestant] i have a
feeling it might be over here. - get outta here, go your own way! - an island's on the line! - i don't regret throwing
50 grand in a fire 'cause i'm gonna find this case. - think in the mind of jimmy. where would jimmy hide? - oh, he's really fast. it's like he's competing for an island. (dramatic music) - i don't know where to go. - all i see is like a bunch of rocks. - me and chandler are wearing
our brand new limited edition 100 million subscriber merch. - yes, we are. - this is our first and maybe only merch
drop of the entire year. we filmed a mrbeast video
that will never be uploaded to the public. just buy either item and we will email you a
link to watch the video. you have seven days. let's go see who wins the island. - look for things in areas
where they shouldn't be. - actually a really good
place to hide a button. - [mrbeast] there are now
three contestants at the pool. - i wanna jump in. - let's go. - i don't see anything red. - we have someone checking the treehouse and someone wandering through the woods. none of them are close. - it's not in here. - i am so winded right now. i want this play button. - i don't even know if i remember what the freaking box looks like. - to the left, you'll see
where i buried the play button. notice how there's no one around it. great success. but then a few minutes
later, this happened. (dramatic music) - watch out, man. - [mrbeast] and then it happened again. and again - he just walked right past it! - you hid it really good. i gotta give it to you. - do you believe me now when
i say this island's massive? - yes, there can be so many possibilities. - it's literally four times bigger than the private island chandler won. - you're right. - [mrbeast] the sun is setting, and i have no idea how they're
gonna find the play button after dark. - i wouldn't put it past
jimmy to put it right behind where we were at. - looking for new sand, anything fresh. - i'm gonna find that play button. wait! okay, no. - kinda wanna check over here. - i can't, i can't give up. - i'm freaking out. tariq, i'm freaking out. oh, she's moving the sticks. if she doesn't find this- - i got it! - [contestant] what? - you're joking. - i got it! - oh my god. - you're joking. - i got it! - that's upsetting. - she won a great island. - congratulations. - i feel like this doesn't even feel real. i think this is the craziest
video you've ever done and the fact that i won it,
like it doesn't feel real. - i'm so happy for you. congratulations. - i'm so happy, thank you. - no problem. - we all burned 50k in
front of each other. - like idiots. - boys! it's now time we open our 100 million subscriber play button. this is fresh from youtube. how do i open it? - it's actually fresh from the ground. - i hate him. - this is over a decade of my
life represented in one item. this is our 100 million- - that's a piece of paper. - oh my goodness! from the bottom of my heart, thank you everyone who subscribed. this channel means the world to me, and i genuinely appreciate anyone who's ever watched the videos. - thank you guys for always
supporting us and watching us. - over the past couple years, i've had some of the most
insane experience of my life. - you guys took me from
janitor to being... (crickets chirp) - we love you! - inside of here is
the deed to the island. congratulations. - thank you. i won an island!
- congratulations! (mrbeast yells) - [mrbeast] don't forget to buy our exclusive 100
million subscriber merch. every single one of you that
buys this will get emailed a never before seen mrbeast video. we spent over half a million
dollars on this video and i promise you'll love it. just go to shopmrbeast.com and buy the 100 mil
subscriber merch right now.