- i have a simple challenge today. to build a pc better than this powerspec. should be easy. - easy you say? - i can beat this.
(dramatic string hit) i can beat this. - [ken] with your eyes closed? - thanks to our kind
sponsors micro center, the challenge is simple. i need to not only shop
for all of my pc components with a blindfold on, but i also can't see as i build the pc. and on top of that, it needs to be able to
outperform, price-to-performance, this very high-end powerspec. and for every minute it takes
me to put this pc together, i'm donating $10 to team seas. (austin sniffs) - [ken] oh, you can smell it? - i smell graphics cards. - [ken] why's he always smelling things? nope, nope, nope, nope.
- okay, yes. yes.
- 12 o'clock. 12 clicks. - four, five. - [ken] all right, well, that's a counter. that's a counter. - i think if i do it like
this, i won't hit anything. i just gotta get like the, oh, okay. gonna go around the cart. this would be a lot easier if this was before they redid the store. i knew the old store. - oh yeah, right. (box thuds)
(ken laughs) - sorry, micro center, i apologize. (laughs) i'm gonna go this way. - [ken] hold on. okay, stand still, stand still. - is shaq behind me right now? (laughs) - [ken] what is that? what do you think it is? let's test your tech blindness abilities. - it sounds very metal-y, is this a case? i don't know, it's a weird shape. - if i were...
- it's a speaker? no, no, projector, projector, projector. - woo! - that's the lens right there. - [ken] what d'you think are those? - these? i dunno, i don't think i need those. - are you sure? i think you're gonna need a few of them. - fans?
(bell dings) - [ken] yes. - if these are fans here,
coolers are here, right? (bell dings) - he really does know
micro center well, okay. yes, those are coolers. what cooler are you looking for, dude? are you going for price to performance? - yeah, well look, that system i've gotta beat is like a 3080 ti and like a core i9. i can't match that. so i'm gonna try to get a cheap pc that has okay components so it can actually have a chance of this. is this like a u12 or something? this is too heavy, i don't want that. - audience, my hands are free. - where's my cart? - oh, my god.
(crew laughs) what, no, no. - where's the cart? is there a cart? - [ken] jason. - hey. i hear collusion.
- jason. - i hear collusion. all right, i'm done with this aisle. i have a cooler, i feel
confident with that. - whoa, austin. you are in the right section, my friend. out of all of these builds,
we can finally do this. we have never done it before. oh, we got a key, we
got a key, we got a key. - okay, okay. windows? (bell dings)
windows. - [ken] ssd.
- windows. (austin sniffs)
- what does it smell like? - i'm feelin' half a terabyte. can i use it for storage on my computer? - technically. - okay then, yes, let me use this. - okay, so i will give you some pity. - okay. - you are currently in
the open box section. - ooh, my favorite spot, my favorite spot. okay, okay, let's go, let's go, let's go. - [ken] well, first you have to find what you're looking for. not that one, that one, that
one, that one, that one. - this one?
- that one. - that's too heavy, i want that one. - what?
- it's too expensive. i want the light one. wait, what box is light? - [ken] you actually really did... - that box is pretty light and this is, how big? this might not be my very best deal. but i think i'll take this because i don't wanna waste time. i'm not going to actually see the components that i've picked until literally i've already
gotten back to the office, put the entire pc together. then i'm going to take my blindfold off. so, well, first of all, it's gonna make the drive
home kind of challenging, but also i'm gonna have absolutely no idea what i'm building. why am i going through
such a tight (laughs) - i can help you, but
this is just funnier. not gonna lie, i now completely
lost my sense of balance. 'cause i'm like, squeezing through here. i think i need to like recenter myself. - found your power supply. - no, you didn't.
- yes we did! - no! why is this so weirdly weighted? (box slaps) no, i don't want it. okay, so these feel
like fans or something, but why would fans be in a locked case? wait, no, hang on, hang on. i'm gonna go up and down
the aisle a little bit away from your terrible influence. i gotta get this thing moving, 'cause if the store opens
and they see some random dude walking around under the blindfold, it's gonna turn off the customers. we can't have that. i want power supply. - [ken] okay. (kenneth claps) c'mere, c'mere, c'mere. - no.
- over here, over here! right here, right here, that one, yeah! yeah! the classic, 600. or am i lying? - i'm only going to take
it, not because you said so, but because it's kind of lightweight. i feel like the lighter, the better here. - ah, here we go. - oh, it's an open, ooh. it's usually a good when
i find one of these. okay, now wait, so. - [ken] no, no, no, nope, nope. nope, try again. - is this like a t5, or something? (buzzer honks)
i don't think i want that. oh, wait, cpu? i heard someone say cpu. okay.
(bell dings) so cpus, okay, hang on,
let me think about this. this is the intel cabinet. - sure. - okay. so then i wanna go down. so, wait hang on. this has a cooler in the box. cpu's right here. which means that this is
where it says core i5. right here.
(bell dings) - ooh, okay. what does it smell like? - smells like a 10400. (crew cheers)
wait, for real? well so, like, usually the
budget things are on the bottom. - do you even wanna ask me how much it is? - i don't care. - what, what are you? oh, ow, ow.
- where's the cart? i need the cart! all right, oh, nvidia.
- yes! - i'm in nvidia land.
- yes. - i can feel it.
- you found it, champ. go for it. we couldn't have made this
any easier for you, dude. - am i to the end? wait. ah oh, boy. ooh. that's too expensive for me. (sniffs)
(austin mumbles) - is this-- - enjoy your gpu riser. - 3060. - yes.
(bell dings) - lock it in, lock it in. - okay. that's the most first
world thing i've ever seen. he just like knocked out a
man with a graphics card. - okay. i need ram and i need a case. i'm totally turned around at this point. oh wait.
- mm, mm? - oh! you know what that sounds like? sounds like money. okay, all right. so this is the display case, which means that there are boxes here. - i would tell you to use the
stepladder, but probably-- - no, don't tell me to do that. - i'm pretty sure that'd be violating osha in numerous different ways. - ooh. wait, what's round on the top? - oh, this is actually looks pretty nice. - this is a big chassis. but actually, know what? bigger's probably better. - mm hm? tell me more. - bigger is better. there's more room for activities, okay. but hang on, how heavy? (beep) - (laughs) as i walk
away, he looked at me. don't look at me like that, i'm ashamed. down, down, down, down, down. no, sorry. all right, i forgot you can't see. straight down (laughs) down the aisle. - for ram, i wanna go with
something relatively cheap. (door clunks) - [ken] that's me, that's me-- - there's a lot of people
in front of me right now. - that's me, that's me,
that's me, that's still me. - okay, lemme just start with this, okay? so that's wide enough for two dimms. wait, let me hear. yep, two dimms. oh, but you know what though? i have to be careful. i actually think there
might be ddr3 around here. - i'll tell you right
now, they're all ddr4. - this is ddr4?
- yep. - how y'all feeling right now? - feel a little uncomfortable
with this distance. (crew laugh) - how y'all feeling right now? - feel a lot better. - can just someone please confirm - [ken] mm hm? - i have everything i need to build a pc? can we make sure i
didn't accidentally grab like the wrong thing? okay, i need to recenter
myself, i'm slightly lost. - [ken] to the, whoa. whoa,
(item thuds) austin, stop dropping, whoa, austin. you had this ssd the whole time? wow! here. - i feel like somebody just
reverse pick pocketed me. is this a free 240 gig ssd that i can get by signing up the link in the description next time i'm in store micro center? - [ken] yes! - oh, brilliant. where's the cart? - i'll take, stop, don't don't hit jason. oh, okay. - i still can't see! - so austin is currently blindfolded. he's going to start building his pc for this blind pc build challenge. and as a reminder for the rules, for every minute that it
takes austin to build this pc, we're going to be
donating $10 to team seas. - i am ready when you fine gentlemen are. - all right, so three, two, one. - okay, all right, so case, case. i'm gonna take the case and
then set that on the ground. oh god, why is that so big, what the? i'll go through things one at a time. so this is graphics
card, do i have a knife? i need a knife. wait, are you handing me
the knife opened or closed? - closed.
- okay. - for now. - this seems wildly dangerous. what is this? oh god, it's a pci card. what the did i buy? it's a sound card. why the f? why do i have a sound card? wait, this is a sound card, right? - you picked it. - [austin] it's a four,
wait, is that, one by? - [ken] yes, it's one by. - all right, what is this? power supply. power supply? oh no, oh no. no, no, no. i feel the mustard cables, i know. (kenneth laughs)
oh god. i am so in trouble right now. - and ladies and gentlemen, i wanna remind you that we have just spent $50 for team seas. - already? oh my god, oh no. - hold your hand. there. - no, absolutely not. absolutely not. - once, just once. - yeah! like a real, wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, oh, okay, nevermind, i changed my, i changed my mind, i changed my mind, - what is this? this is so weird, i don't like
what i bought at all here. - it starts with the
letter a and ends in i-o. - nope, i didn't buy that. i don't want that, i didn't buy that. that's not, i didn't buy an aio. i absolutely did not. i absolutely a 100% did not. get this out of here. where's my actual cooler? look, i'm callin' shenanigans,
i didn't buy this. - look, how do you know? you didn't see it. - i don't, i literally, you couldn't even lie
with a straight face. (box shakes)
what's that? what is this? - i didn't think this would be fun, but-- - why do i have two power supplies? why do i have two power supplies? - just in case one caught
on fire, if you needed more? - how much did you add? i don't. time check? - you have donated $100 to team seas. - i'm like halfway through unboxing. this is gonna be really bad. okay, so sata cables i'm
gonna put in this pocket. so i don't forget. io shield, i'm gonna put
in this pocket as well. - wow he's actually planning. - oops, did i get a stock cooler? oh no, wouldn't it be a shame
if i installed this instead? (kenneth laughs) what are you laughing about? - nothing, nothing. it's okay, it's okay. - where did my cpu go? all right, so this is
the real danger town. so which way is up on the cpu? oh god. it's like this, this feels wrong. this feels wrong. ooh. oh, oh, is that on there? let's go, let's go! all right, ram, ram. let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. - oh, jesus christ. he might have the brains, but he doesn't have the motor skills. austin, get it in the hole,
what is wrong with you? - this is a lot more than, i thought the cpu was gonna
be my hardest part here. (crew laugh) (crew cheers) i got it in, i got it in! i'm gonna open up the case. side panel comes off. this goes against the
back of the set somewhere. - [ken] oh (laughs) oh, whoa, whoa, whoa! austin, austin. austin, you need to buy
your camera guy lunch before you do that, jesus. - well i don't know where everyone is! now, i'm gonna put one screw
in to hold the power supply. that seems sufficient to me. - [ken] you have like
a one in like 500 shot, according to how many holes
are on the back of that. - am i just completely the wrong way? - here, lemme see. okay, that's one. - all right, that's fine. where's the hole? how's there not a hole here? use my finger to lay it. yes, yes! yup, yup, yup. (board rattles) that's my board that's
rattling that much, huh. mm, not a great sign, actually. i just need to bite the bullet and put in my aio right now. and that is gonna be
an absolute nightmare. how's that powerspec system? you done with that yet? - i forgot. is my life really that hard? setting up a pc that's already built? this pc that austin is building
is going to be compared to this powerspec. (bag rattles) - [austin] don't mind me. - [ken] are you okay there? - [austin] yeah, i'm fine. - well it's okay, while you're doing that, i'm going to be unboxing and setting up this powerspec prebuilt pc
that micro center has in stock. so for $3,300, we get a
12th gen, core i9 processor, 32 gigs of ram and a 3080 ti. the aesthetic on this is probably the cleanest
powerspec i've seen yet. look at this thing. woo, damn. not too bad for a prebuilt. oh my god, yeah. oh, that looks so nice. - all right, everyone,
i have an announcement. i have an aio with not one,
not two, but three fans. now comes the hard part of figuring out how to put this part on that part. like can someone just visually check? this does not feel like it fits. - no, definitely not. - okay, as in like, this is
not going to fit in the case or am i stupid? - it's not going to fit in the case as is. - excuse me, what d'you mean, as is? - not on the top. - oh my god. all right, this feels more like it. all right, so cables all in
the back, back, back back. sweet. hey, ken? - [ken] yeah? - how much do i have to
pay to get some help? - [ken] $200 to team seas. - [austin] will that $200 cover helping me figure out the
back plate solution here? - yes. so basically it's just
one plate in the back. where is your plate, where'd you put it? remember you said you dropped it? - i haven't seen (laughs) in a while. - well that's unfortunate. okay, well, we need to find that. (bags rustle) (polystyrene thuds) - why didn't i have
these from the beginning? so much easier to feel my
way around the studio now. - okay, handicap time. i will give you a free air cooler. - what? - [ken] with your purchase. - i just spent all that
time putting on the fans. - here, here.
- what d'you mean? wait, did i buy this? - [ken] yes. you also held that with your hands. - i spent all that time putting
those fans on the radiator. doing all this stuff, just
for you to give me the cooler that i grabbed from the very beginning and the stock cooler you stole from me? and i got charged the $200? - yeah, it's a consultation fee. (polystyrene thuds) i will bargain with you
again, for an extra, how much does this cost? $30. so for an extra $60, i
will sell you a wonderful stock intel cooler.
(crew member laughs) - where's my, where's my thing? i need my foam. where's the foam,
someone give me my foam. 60 more dollars for my stock cooler? - [ken] 60 more dollars.
- give it to me. - okay, plus $260 for the time. there. - oh my god, is this power
supply actually gonna work? - i think it will. the worst case is, you have two of them. four pin and a six pin. - wait, is it, it's not six plus two? the graphics card needs
eight pin, doesn't it? (kenneth laughs) so i gotta undo all this work while the timer is still ticking. do i have a power supply that works now? - [ken] yes. - cool, are you gonna install it for me? - [ken] no. - [austin] this feels
much more substantial. ken, are you just playing
"valorant" right now? - [ken] no. - dunno, put the graphics
card in, nothing will hold it. okay.
- oh. - oh.
- okay. - [ken] that sounds safe. - that it?
(pc whirs) yes! - [ken] you got it? - (exhales) yeah. i think it's in, nothing's
holding it in whatsoever. that's in, okay. all right, i think i'm good to post. this feels like the most dangerous part, of feeling an outlet without
being able to see it. do not try any of this at home. - oh.
- oh, oh. did i do it? - yes. all right, lets see--
- please work, please work, please work. post post post.
- oh, it posted. - yes, time! call time, call time, call time. wow, that looks like trash. (crew laughs) (austin sighs) so i have no case fans,
except the one in the back, which is not connected. the ssd is just dangling
here, but you know what? the power supply's screwed in, there's two screws holding
the motherboard in. i got a 16 gig kit of
ram instead of eight? - [ken] 16 gig dimm. - oh, wait, what is this? 3600? - [ken] yeah. it's actually reasonably priced. - that was not fun. what's my team seas total? so 2000,
- no. - no, wait.
- that's in hours. - no, hours, wait. - so the grand total for team seas is $1,660.
(register chimes) - yes. - okay, all that work, and that is by far the worst
looking pc i've ever built. i'm pretty sure if you
purchase a powerspec or have micro center build your pc, it's gonna look slightly nicer than this. - i could guarantee that. - i think it's a pretty safe bet. so that was fun. but now my pc is fully assembled. to start out with, we're gonna do a price
to performance showdown. i've already run my
cinebench and my 3dmark. have you done as well? - yes.
- okay, so jared, can you please help us determine who is the winner
on the price to performance? - so i have done the
math, the numbers are in. mind you, higher score is better. - [austin] okay. - austin, you earned 12.88.
- okay. - ken, you earned, 14.33. (ken whoops) - i don't know why i'm happy. i'm happy for micro center. - i'll give you that one. to be fair, i have about $200
worth of non-used components on the floor right now, which i'm pretty sure would've
gotten me over the 14, but it's fine, it's
fine, we'll roll with it. - powerspec beats the blind spec. - so we're gonna go straight into a race. winner takes all here. - okay. - so basically whoever
doesn't spin out wins. and then as soon the lights
go out, you can let go. - [game announcer] drive
through penalty, you have a-- - [austin] i think you jumped
it, but we'll go with it. - [ken] (chuckles) bouncin'
on the walls, here. - what? how are you bouncing on the walls? - [ken] my tires are hitting the walls. - [austin] oh my god. 'kay, i've got three second gap. two laps to go. this is not looking good. - [ken] oh yeah, they black flagged me. so technically you will win that, but. - [austin] wait, wait, what happened? you got disqualified? - [ken] yeah, 'cause i had to actually go into the pit for it. - that mean i win? - [ken] well i still, you won-- - the blind winner, it's me! i built this, i won this! it's me! - cause you rushed--
- the winner! - you rush into the thing and made your own rules on the spot. - you know my excuse? i was blindfolded. - yeah, but that has no bearing
on your actual gameplay. if we actually start
normally, i could beat you. - i think everyone's tired
and done with this video. - [ken] i am done with this video. (austin laughs) i'm very done with this video. - so there you have it
friends, the blindfolded, team seas donating, f1 dominating game pc, courtesy our fine sponsors
over at micro center. if you're interested in
any of the components or ken's much better system, check out the links in the description. and until next time, we're
gonna find a challenge that allows me to use
both of my eyes next time. 'cause i would be a big fan of that. (effect beeps) too bad it wasn't a broke versus pro. it is kind of broke versus pro-esque. - [ken] i mean, i still
won by like three seconds. (crew member calls indistinctly) - okay. there's a little salt on
that side of the room. - i was beating him by three seconds. - that's what happens when you
don't follow the rules, ken. - well, maybe you should
let me know of the rules before we start though.