- samsung, i love you,
but what are you doing? in a world where samsung are putting more and more emphasis on their folding phones, and they're canceling
lines such as the note, i've gotta ask, "is this really
where things are headed?" we're here in san francisco this morning to take an early look at
the samsung galaxy s23. they're clearly very
confident in their design because this is incredibly
similar to the s22, but other than the new color and the fact that they've kinda changed the way the camera bump is, hardware-wise, it seems incredibly close. (television static buzzing) almost exactly three years ago, samsung unveiled the first galaxy z flip, and i'll admit it, i
fell in love instantly. the idea of having a tiny phone that could fit in your pocket that could then unfold to become not only a full-sized flagship, but importantly, also
give you extra features like a built-in tripod,
having the external display. like, for me, it was really,
really something magical. i know i say that like i'm
in an apple ad right now or something, but the
second that i got my hands on the z flip, it was a wrap. and for the last three years,
a z flip of some variety has lived in my pocket. now, to be fair, that
first generation model did leave a lot to be desired, but importantly, samsung
seized on that potential. within six months, they had released an updated 5g model with improved specs, and a little over a year
later, there was the z flip3, which was a complete
overhaul of the phone that, let's not forget, had only been out for, like, less than'
months at that point. in contrast, let's look
at the galaxy s line over the same last three years. we had the s20, the s21, which was a reasonable little upgrade when it comes to the outside specs and especially the cameras, but then the s22 was a very minor upgrade. and now, here we are in
2023 with the galaxy s23, and, ah, yeah, it's a, it's
a new phone, all right. it's very different. i mean, sure, they
continue to load the latest and greatest specs inside,
including the specific for samsung
(logo clicking) (harp strings flourishing)
qualcomm snapdragon 8 gen 2 for galaxy.
(chimes tinkling) this is a slightly higher-clocked
version of the same chip that is going out in
other phones right now. essentially, samsung have
just gotten the exclusivity on the slightly higher binned, mostly because they've
agreed to finally drop the exynos version of the galaxy s line in favor of, let's be honest, the much better performing
snapdragon equivalents. (dramatic country music) but here's the thing: you
look at this galaxy s23, and there are so few major improvements that i really kinda have to ask, like, is samsung's heart really in this? i mean, yeah, it's nice to
have the incremental stuff year over year. it's certain what apple have
been doing for quite a while, but it seems like over the last few years, while they've poured all of their time and effort into foldables, the standard galaxy s23 has
just not really moved forward. that's not even counting the
weird, awkward middle child. that's a little mean.
the awkward middle child. no offense if you're a middle child. this is a weird one. like, i don't know who
should buy the plus. essentially, what you're getting for your additional $200 over the base s23 is the larger screen, battery, standard 256 gigs of
storage as opposed to 128, and you get a couple of minor upgrades such as an ultra-wideband chip, but unless you're using your phone as a digital key for a bmw, it's not particularly important, and for me, a $200 jump
is massive in this space. i don't think the plus is it. i think the ultra is
what you're looking for. - [ken] favorite one. - so clearly, the phone
that is the most exciting is the s23 ultra. it seems clear that samsung
had put in more effort for the ultra this generation. now, while on the outside,
it looks very similar to the s22 ultra, you've
still got the camera bumps that are exposed on the back. you've got those big, squared-off sides, the slightly less radiused
corners on the display, the s pen that goes inside, but all of this comes at a cost. this thing is huge!
(phone tapping) i straight up think it's,
like, double the z flip. the real highlight of the phone, though, has gotta be the cameras, and i don't think it's an
unreasonable thing to say that the galaxy s23 ultra might just have the most well-rounded camera package of any phone period right now.
(vehicle zooming) know you have a
200-megapixel main shooter. you've also got the ultra-wide, the three times telephoto,
and the 10 times. so, i mean, as far as putting
everything in one package, i could safely say that
not only is this phone about the most well-rounded thing that you would get today,
but it's gonna age well. you're getting the software support. you're getting the
performance, the screen, the cameras, the battery life. i'm outta fingers, but
probably some other things. like, there's really nothing
that you have to compromise besides your wallet
(cash register ringing) and the space in your pocket. the question, though, and
i think it's a valid one, is is all this really
worth the $1,200 price tag of this s23 ultra? for comparison, if you look
at the iphone 14 pro max, that's a full $100 cheaper. and if you move over to the pixel 7 pro, that is $300 less expensive
than this s23 ultra. sure, the ultra is a little
bit more well-rounded when it comes to performance between the flexibility of the zoom range, and certainly, it's got a little
bit of a better reputation when it comes to doing all
these software updates. but almost more importantly than that, just being a solid, reliable device. and look, the pixels have
come up in a big way, and the pixel 7, as far as i'm concerned, is an incredibly strong competitor, but it also would be
remiss of me if i didn't at least acknowledge some of the issues that the pixel 6 specifically had. google is getting there,
but they don't quite have that near-bulletproof reliability record that samsung have cultivated
over the last decade-plus. still, though, in my opinion, google have really struck gold
with the pixel line lately, especially when it comes
to the 7 and the 7 pro. not only do you have
those world-class cameras, they've got their own tensor processors, which means that they've got
a little bit more control over the long-term software support. this comparison gets a
whole lot tougher, though, if you step down to the standard
pixel 7 and the galaxy s23. those sort of regular flagships if you're not looking
for the ultra experience. here, the price difference is a full $200. look, for 600 bucks, it is
incredibly hard to argue with the pixel 7 right now. now, if i could give the s23 anything, it would probably be that it
does have a telephoto camera, which, especially with
that 3x on that s23, is a really nice bonus, but outside of that, there
are very few advantages of going with the s23 over the pixel 7, and again, that's a $200
difference, man, like. (inhales) (electricity humming)
(relaxed music) hey, guys, this is austin, and today, you're here with an unboxing of the new samsung galaxy s3 for t-mobile. (static crackling)
looking around the space that they've got here,
and one of the things that jumps out to me immediately
is the wall of galaxies. so they've got everything
from the s3, the s6, the s10, pretty much every single galaxy device that they've done over
the last 10-plus years all in this cool array. my very first tech event
that i was invited to was actually the samsung
galaxy s3 unpacked. this was a time where samsung truly were on top of the world,
and a big part of that was because their marketing
was absolutely on point. very quickly, people realized that if you wanted an android phone, samsung should be pretty
much on the top of your list. sure, there were the
nokias, the lgs, the htcs, the blackberries, but
look around the space now, and you're pretty much gonna see things being dominated by apple, by samsung, and now, at least, there's
some competition from google, which is always a good thing
because duopolies suck, but triopolies are great. here's the thing: the galaxy
s23, specifically the ultra, is a very, very nice device. the problem, though, is
the level of innovation, the level of samsung are taking baby steps. what feels like the industry as a whole are taking much, much bigger leaps. even when you look at
samsung's own foldable lines over the last few years,
they've come so far, and yet going from the
s21 to the s22 to the s23. yeah, there are upgrades. yeah, there are differences, but they're very minor in
the grand scheme of things. and when companies such
as google are out here being super-competitive on price, when companies such as oneplus are hungry for that sweet,
sweet samsung market share, it just feels like samsung are (sighs) resting on their laurels a bit? when they're almost
putting more attention, at least from the outside, on not only their foldables, but
even, like, the lower end, like a series lines that they've
creating budget devices and mid-range devices. it puts, for me, the s23
lineup in a very weird spot because these are good phones, but good just kind of isn't enough. if you sit on that good for long enough, it just, it just becomes okay. it just becomes sort of forgettable. because for so long, the s line
has been the default phone. that's the phone that you
get if you want a flagship, you want something that's reliable, you want something that you
can get it every carrier. like, it was just kind of
the default android answer, and that's really where
i'm struggling to answer the question, "is the samsung
galaxy s23 lineup worth it?" i mean, for me, the clearest answer really is with the s23 plus. it just doesn't make sense. same thing goes, though, for the s23. i mean, it is a safe bet. i think if you buy it, it
will last you for many years, and it'll be great, but
the biggest issue with that is that not only does the
pixel 7 exist for much less, but so does the galaxy s22 from last year, which because it's so similar means that you could probably pick
that up for significantly less and still get almost the
exact same experience. the ultra, though, does have a place. know while it might not be as clear cut as it has been in the past, at least what you're getting here is that reliable performance,
the good build quality, the long-term software support. you're also getting the s pen and the incredibly
impressive camera suite. it just seems clear that
if you're considering any of the galaxy s23 line, it should probably be the ultra this year, but it feels like this is not the future. it just feels like they're just continuing their legacy business of selling you the $800, the $1,000, the $1,200 flagships for as long as you will
keep shelling out for it, which is fine. there's nothing wrong with that. these are very competent,
very solid devices, but they're not exciting. they're not even a great
value when you consider they're so similar to the
devices that they're replacing. save your money. buy yourself an s22 for
hundreds of dollars less, or be bold, innovative, and exciting, and get yourself a folding phone. well, at least, that's what i'm gonna do. (relaxed electronic music)