(upbeat music)
(box slamming) (upbeat music)
(man thumping) - that was a little extra. so, this, my friends, is
the glass sound speaker. - [ken] you're not in c by the way- - i'm trying to get, okay, okay, create a cozy atmosphere
with room filling sound. do you know, that's
what they say about me. (austin sings) - [matt] i think we
can leave that in there, because you were so off that we can't even get
copyright claimed for it. (austin laughing) (upbeat music)
- all right, that looks sus. i mean. (ken laughing) what the...? this is very heavy, like much heavier than it looks. it's super, super dense. oh, i turned it on. oh, is it touch controlled? oh, it's touch controlled, so you can slide so that's
all the way forward, or you can slide it down. - [ken] it's supposed to
be a candle light type thing. - why is it all the way at the bottom? it doesn't fill up that tube at all. i mean, it's a nice
little cozy sort of vibe. (upbeat music) oh. (upbeat music) a lot of bass, like enough
to rumble the table. (soft music)
(singer vocalizing) now, see, that sounds good. (upbeat music) get 'em, chief. [music] say that i care for you [music] [music] but i'm out of time [music] this is an interesting speaker because it looks cool, and i
think that that's a big reason why you buy this, right? it looks very interesting. the sound, though, is not amazing. it doesn't wow me in the way
that this kind of price should. the bass kind of rumbles over everything. i do think, though, that i'm
gonna do the rest of this video lit by candle light. - [ken] no, you won't. - no. oh, this is weird now. i'm a weirdo crouching
around a bluetooth speaker. so, you may be familiar with an episode of mystery tech recently where we got to take a look at an incredibly cool custom game boy, made by, the one and only, jake simmons. well, jake is here. welcome to mystery tech, my friend. - hi. - [austin] you've been wanting to do that for a while, haven't you? - yeah, i've been wanting
to do this for a while. - so, jake is a game boy aficionado. he does an incredible amount of modding to make some of the coolest
custom game boys ever. today, we're gonna build one together. hit me, what you got? - so, we've got this destroyed sp- - oh my god, dude! did you drag this behind a truck? - no. - where did you find this? - i have a game boy guy. i got a guy, so. i didn't know if you wanted
your overclock orange. - [austin] oh, that looks great. - i'm kinda gonna let you loose and see what you can do. - [ken] that's how
you get the best content. - yeah. - okay, man, that's-
- that's bad. - so, i can see that
you've soldered on a usb-c where the charger went. - it's actually really simple. there's so many people in the community that just do everything. they have complete schematics. they have got it down to the point where it's literally just there's one tab right there. - [austin] oh, i see where
you soldered it down. - [jake] and that's all you
need for the positive line, and then securing it down
will get you the negative. - so, it's a whole little board that you just drop right in? - yep. - that's incredible. - you know blackberry phones? they still make phones. - okay, blackberry, got it. - that's a blackberry screen.
- no. - [jake] serious. - this is the most 2000s video ever. so, i have what? three cables, wires to solder? how hard could it be? - [ken] don't say that. - [jared] flashback to that clip. (ken laughing) - i think i can handle it. all right, so iron coming in. - [jake] there you go. beautiful, give it a little pull. - that fast? - yep, it's that fast.
- wow. whew, okay. okay. oh, what do we have here? i definitely thought
that was a z flip skin, 'cause, if you look at it, it kinda looks like the two
camera bumps and everything. - and you know that was what
i was trying to go for, right? - is that really? - yeah. - oh.
(crew chattering) (start up music) that is crispy. this screen looks great. it is so bright and vivid, and the scaling also looks pretty sharp. - [jake] oh, that's great. - look, i am bad all the time. what? go away, bowser. the only reason daisy likes you is 'cause you kidnap her, bro. get some real game. - that's not how-
- daisy what? - it's super mario land. - yeah.
- yeah, one game out of the eighty? don't defend him.
(crew laughing) - is that wordle?
- oh, it is wordle. - [ken] don't tell
the new york times though. - oh, i only got one. wait, so-
(crew laughing)` look, i gotta give it a-
- wordle. - look, gotta give it a
little wiggle going on. - wait. (upbeat music) wait, don't, oh. - what's that supposed to- oh, what is that? - is this an av connector? oh my god! (upbeat music) - that's cool.
- what? (ken laughing) you can do this? - [ken] i'm here to do
it, so you don't have to. okay, i'm out, i'm out. i'm just saying, it's a word. jake, where can people find you? - they can find me at
youtube.com/jakesimmons. - you could win this by subscribing to your channel right now. dude, this is a sweet dmg, man. wow. this will be available
once i'm done with it. (upbeat music)
- wait, what? (upbeat music)
- where are you going? there's no door. where are you? - this video is sponsored by
dark nemesis infinite quest. dark nemesis is an
exciting new mobile mmorpg. as you can see, this
game is full of action. you can take control of a
peacekeeper to rise against the powers of evil that
threaten the world today. with full 3d graphics
and an immersive story, you'll be hooked for hours. the game is extremely
easy to pick up and play, with you able to start and finish battles within a few minutes,
which makes this perfect, especially for me. if i've gotta sit there for
more than a few minutes, i'm not gonna have the time. the gameplay features epic pvp battles that allow you to team
up with other players to fight in realtime to
be the last one standing. whether it's 5v5, or even
a massive 10v10 battle, these are truly something to experience. and that doesn't even
mention the weapon system. in dark nemesis, you
take control of spirits, a creature which can be used as a mount, to help
you traverse the world, or as a powerful weapon that changes, depending on what class you choose. you don't need to leave style
out of the equation either. with tons of wings and
companions to collect, they come in a wide variety of designs. you can play dark nemesis completely free on iphone or android today by using the link in the description and using the code, wingsnow. and don't forget to check out their event, create your own video with #darknemesis, and you'll have a chance to win gift cards and in-game rewards. thank you to dark nemesis
for sponsoring this video. everyone just take a quick breather. prepare yourself.
- go fast. - is that sonic the hedgehog? oh, boy! where's my sonic mask? yeah, boy! let's go! this smells like a
dentist's office in here. you know when they put
their gloves in your mouth? what the (ringing) is this? this is the whole item? it's just a sonic necklace
that looks like it's actually maybe real jewelry? - [ken] it is sonic bling. it's actually ice. (upbeat music) - [austin] yo, i'm sonic.
(upbeat music) what's up? i'm just straight chillin'
with my boy, knuckles, and jim carey, who's a close
personal friend of myself. - [ken] this is the
whitest sonic i've ever seen, and he's blue. - really? i'm honored, thank you. (upbeat music) - [ken] what? - as someone who never ever wears a chain, this feels cool. no, no, no! (box thumping) how could you?
- that was so aggressive. - well, at least it's just an
innovative smart led sling bag and nothing that's fragile or expensive. (upbeat music) it's a bag. i'm not really sure what i expected there. i was legitimately confused for a second. (austin sniffing) - [matt] why do you always just smell it? - [ken] does it smell like wish or does it smell like amazon? - it smells a little like wish. - oh god.
- a little wishy. a little wishy here. - [matt] oh, that's never good. - okay, well, we've got a usb port. thank you very much, sir. so, we're gonna plug this in. activate. oh!
(upbeat music) i mean, the bag is made for me, after all. oh, great. you have to log in, you
have to create an account to use your bag. whoa, so inside the app,
you literally just open up one of the pixel art things
that people have made and it just instantly works. ready? (upbeat music) boom! this is cool. this is pretty cool. a little persona action here. - oh, okay.
- this is a little aggressive. it's a little aggressive. i'm not so sure of that one. (upbeat music) okay, i saw that one coming. i saw that coming. but you know how it is when
you wanna be the very best, the best that ever was. i don't know where my thumb goes. (box rattling) there was some force behind that. i did it with nine fingers. - [matt] look at how
thick vulpix's thighs are. - [ken] vulpixes don't skip leg day. (box rattling)
(upbeat music) - that just didn't sound good. - [matt] that sounded like it broke. - y'all really like leaning in
the pokemon thing, don't you? a pokemon interactive watch and some more nonsense. (upbeat music) (crew laughing) y'all wanna explain yourself right now? (upbeat music) - it's a whip.
(upbeat music) - [matt] look, being a
pokemon trainer is not easy. - this is a different
kind of training, friend. - [matt] it's a wireless jump rope. - can i just ask a very simple question? - mm-hmm.
- why? who needs a wireless jump rope? isn't that the point? you're supposed to jump over it. (item rattling) nope, i don't like this. this is not good. (item rattling) so, i just do this? (upbeat music) - [matt] do you feel
like you're jumping rope? - no, i don't at all. - [ken] i think
technology has come so far. - [matt] i think is doing
exactly what it's promising. (upbeat music) - that's actually kinda cute.
- it's actually not that bad. - dude, this thing, for 30
bucks, actually pretty good. we've gotta try the camera, right? (upbeat music)
(camera clicking) (upbeat music)
actually- (crew laughing) i don't know if that's the
most flattering photo of myself that i've ever seen. (upbeat music)
(box rattling) (upbeat music) that felt heavy and aggressively thrown. y'all just need to get some energy out. you got a lot of pent up
something going on over here. ready?
(upbeat music) what is this? is it a yellow keyboard? oh, is it cyberpunk? - no.
- no. (crew laughing) - what are you wearing?
(crew laughing) - oh.
(crew laughing) oh, it's pokemon.
(crew laughing) don't mind me.
(crew laughing) i'll just be doing my thing over here. - [ken] so, we should point that we could judge from the fact
that this says pokemon asia. this is stuff that you
cannot buy in the us, at least officially, through
razer's official networks. what keyboard is it? does it say? - i don't know what it's based on. it's a mecha-membrane keyboard. (upbeat music) - [matt] oh, look at
that, it's pikachu's tail. - i mean, that is actually is pretty cool. yeah, so it's not that terrible
for a membrane keyboard. in addition to the keyboard- - oh, you have a- - the wrist rests, yeah. that's pretty cool. i don't know why they
don't sell this in the us. this is rad. - 'cause-
- it's 'cause of licensing. - oh, yes. i will say, as a big
fan of black and yellow, i'm just saying, i'm just saying, i came prepared today. - [ken] i'm not gonna lie though, the mousepad, pretty generic. - i will say, if you look at it, it's a different shade of yellow, right? it's a little bit darker, which i think actually
doesn't help it that much. i would actually say the mouse probably pulls the
aesthetic together the best. you have the little pikachu
tail, which is where i'm sure the led is. you've got your little red
buttons and red accents. none of these accessories feel like they're the super expensive,
high end equivalent on the razer side. instead, you're getting this much more so, i think, for the aesthetic. look. isn't it cool?
(upbeat music) i'm being lit by the glow
of the mouse right now, and the brightness of my display. (upbeat music)