bit of a bit of a game show theme kind of thing 
here. i guess we can, down in the comments,   what do you think this dice is for? or why would 
we make these things? 
- (brady: look at them all! look at them!) yeah each thing you make, right, you've got 
to make a mold, you got to get them made; like   you got to be making thousands of them at once 
otherwise there's no point of doing it so why   would we bother doing this? what was the point?
so we'll start out with these, let's give them   a good old roll there. so so yeah what what 
is the point of these and why- we'll start off   easy. some of these are quite obscure but these 
ones are hopefully not that difficult. what are   these for?
- (i don't know, what are they for?)
- well i mean you can see the numbers on them, well this one   says- if you look on the top, i guess there isn't 
a face on the top but you can still got a number.   sort of similar to the ordinary 4-sided die is 
like just a pyramid, and- cos it doesn't have a face   on the top you put numbers either around the base 
or up at the tip because you don't have a face. but   that's fine, you can still pick a random number 
by by doing that. and so these are just 6-sided   dice that are not the usual cube but why not? 
there's like a triangular pyramid on the top   so that's three of your sides and there's another 
three on that side - it's just another way to do a   6-sided die which isn't a cube. cos, you know, why 
stick with cubes? this works as well. 
- (so there's) (no advantage or disadvantage or anything to this? 
it's just a just a-)
- it's just a different way to   do. um maybe there is an advantage, i don't know. is it 
is it easier to pick up? maybe slightly, i don't   know. is it more painful to step on? possibly. 
- (harder to pack)
- harder to pack, that's true, they don't stack  together nicely and make- actually you know what, 
i've never tried this. i don't think they do - yeah   there's a gap there, that's that's no good. because 
you know everybody sticks the usual cube, it's   traditional, but what are the other possibilities? 
there's another way you can do it. 
- (what shape is that?)  (what is that name of that shape?)
- um i would call it a bi-pyramid or triangular bi- pyramid. well   right, so the the the thing you need for the the 
die to be fair is - do we say die or dice? i never   figure it out, whatever. the thing you need for dice 
to be fair is that well all the faces have to be   the same and you know the the they're sort of all 
arranged relative to each other in the same way  right; so you can get from any face to any other 
face by just sort of rotating it around. and that   is true for this shape as well, just as it is for 
the cube. all right, so that's number one. all   right, next one. what is- what is this thing?
so it looks kind of like a spinning top.   (again, how do i know what number you've rolled?)
- well it isn't super- it's easier in person but   i mean i can see that this is a 20 on the top and-
- (so it's the number that's-_
- it's the number   that's on the top. right, so that's a 2. again 
maybe not the easiest, it's easier when you're   when you're in person and you have like you know 
depth perception and stuff like that. well and how   many sides does it have? this side you can see, it's 
got all of the odd numbers - oh except it doesn't,   there's a 16 there. all right, a lot of odd numbers 
and there's a lot of even numbers on that but   there are 20 sides. so this is just a 20-sided die.
why would you- but it's so horrible right? the the   the 20-sided die that people like is the classic, 
the icosahedron, right. the the- i think some people   would say it's the prettiest of the dungeons and 
dragons dice. why would you do this? well there's   a reason, which is that we have- i think we talked 
about in some previous video, the skew d6. it looks   like a ordinary cubical die but it is messed up 
and distorted - but still fair. right, that's the   sort of mathematical point to this, is that you 
you want to distort it a little bit but still have   it be fair. and so there's the 8-sided fair but 
distorted and and the 4-sided fair but distorted.   that one's actually i think an improvement on the 
usual 4-sided die because there's a big number   on the top unlike the usual 4-sided die, you get 
these like fiddly little things around. anyway. and   then there's the distorted 12-sided die and 
the to to round out the the classic dungeons and   dragons set is a set of seven dice - no icodahedron 
for you - with a four, a six, an eight, a twelve, the   two 10 siders so you do percentages and the d20. 
and the problem with this, so why is this the the   cursed d20? all of the other shapes you take the 
standard shape and you distort it just a little   bit and it's still fair, you can still make a fair 
die out of it. but the d20, the icosahedron, that turns   out there's no way to do it. there's no way to like 
tweak this just a little bit and have it still be   fair, it breaks the the symmetry. we knew we had 
to do the full set, the full classic set, but   there was just no way to break the d20 and so we 
just had to okay we're going to lean into it, just   make this horrible horrible thing the the best you 
can do is two 10-sided pyramids stuck back to back,   that's all you can do. so we had to.
- (so you wanted to have a set of dodgy dungeons and dragon dice? and)   (the only way you can make a dodgy 20-)
- is to go to this thing. that's what you have to do. you can't   tweak it just a little bit, doesn't work.
- (that makes sense, okay)
- good good for your like call of cthulu   games where everything's like eldritch and weird.
- (what's next?)
- so these, all the same but these - we   were just talking about fairness of dice, do these look fair?
- (no they look- hard to tell. they don't)   (really look particularly symmetrical)
- right. the- yeah i mean the the shapes on the faces are all   different. so this one here,', that's a rectangle.
and 17 is a triangle and 16 is like a kite shape.   they're all different, so yeah there's no reason; 
and actually i have no idea how fair this is, we   never tested it for rolling because these are 
not for rolling. okay what else do people use   dice for? so these are used for keeping track of 
your score or your life points. so these are called   countdown dice, or sometimes you call them spin down dice.
maybe you start with 24 health points and then   you're playing magic the gathering or something and 
then you take some damage and then you go down to   you got 22 health points - you just leave it on 
there on the table so you know what you're doing.   usually countdown dice look something like this, 
so it's an icosahedron, starts with 20 because in   magic you have 20- 20 life points. and then you go 
down to 19 health points, and', and 17, and 16 and   it it follows like you know a nice path. so this 
is numbered not the way that a usual die would   be, where they're like all over the place, because 
you want to find oh what's the next number. and   the the the disadvantage of this is that you've 
got three different directions to go - which which   way do you go? and then there's another weird thing 
with this one: 13, 12, 11 - where's 10? got 19 on this   side and 12 and 6; 10 is on the complete opposite 
side because whoever made this die decided that   opposite sides should still out to 21 even though 
you're not- anyway i don't know why they did this,   i mean this is a very first world problem. it must 
be said but still you know you're trying to find the   next number and you don't know which way to go, 
whereas the the new and improved version has   this nice path that that winds its way all the way 
down to 1 and then back to 24. the design is sort of   related to these things called sphericons which 
are these kind of like- maybe you've seen these,   they like it sort of rolls and it not a not 
a polyhedron but sort of smooth things   where you kind of roll and it kind of wiggles 
back and forth and this is doing the same sort   of thing but with the kind of polygonised 
version so that you can you can do the dice.   (this seems like a bad way to keep track of your 
score, cos you could so easily knock it and then)  (it's like - oh what what number was i on?)
- it's true, it's true. how stable is your table? do you think   we can get it to go? 
- (no. it's- it seems like the 
optimal design would be one that is hard to roll) right, right. and we did think about that, like you 
know we wanted to maximise- right the shape is not   a standard polyhedron, like it came from somewhere,
so we definitely wanted to maximise the like the   tipping angle, right? how far do you need to move 
the centre of gravity before it will be on the   tip? so right, you don't want to tip from 14 to 10,
like that, you don't want that to be easy. so that's   a really sharp angle and then the other ones we're 
trying to like make them as much as you can. well   and why is it 24? right, why not 20? because there 
was a parity thing that you have to had to work   with yeah. 
- (creating the path, that nice optimal path 
so you can easily go from 1 to 24 or 24 to 1,)   (was that a trivial mathematical problem? or was 
there some crunching involved?)
- so so there's a   couple of things; i mean first is just what is the 
sort of the large scale? like how many numbers are   going to be? how many times does it wind back and 
forth? the original sort of idea for this came from,   there's a guy called alexandre muniz, and he said 
can you do just can you do a sphericon countdown   die? and the usual sphericon has these like two 
kind of circles and it wobbles back and forth   like this - you go up, down, up, down and then you'd be 
back at the start, so there would be like four of   these things. we started, we said oh that's a cool 
idea, and then we started playing with it and then   immediately realised wait, there isn't a number 
on top. so somehow the fact that if you go up and   down twice there's sometimes like a corner on top 
or on edge. whereas with three times this is what   this does: it goes up and down three times then you 
always get a face on top. so that was not obvious   initially and then there was this whole other side 
of like well how do you make the shape? how do you   decide what the angles are? and that that we used 
um there's some like optimisation stuff to to do   with the 3d software that i use. you can generate 
things that change the shape of stuff and and   try to optimise things, so that's what we did. 
- (nice, okay, next set)
- all right, next. this is - oh gosh, nice and not not too complicated this one but it's 
kind of fun to play with. 
- (what we got here?)
- so what are these about? so you will notice that there are 
not numbers on these, instead there are letters. so   maybe you can guess what this is for?
- (trying to make a word?) 
- you're trying to make a word, it's   sort of like a you know like a word game. again not 
so easy to tell which letter is on top necessarily,   but this is c, h, o, e and z. um so the z might 
be a problem. uh what can we do? uh the c isn't   fantastic either. umm he is a two-letter word.
- (this will randomly generate you five letters?)
- generally you get five letters yes
- (and then you're going to try and make the longest word you can?)
- right or   or, you know, play some sort of word game with us. 
there's a bit of a cheat here; we gave you a u with   a q because you know it's kind of difficult to 
deal with the q otherwise. there is something   interesting here, right, so the obvious comparison
is with boggle right? boggle has you know the grid   of of cubes and when you do that you can you can 
like one cube is only going to have vowels on it -   so you know you're going to get some vowels. and 
here we're like, okay we're going to make you know   one design and then they've all got to work for 
this. so the distribution of the letters is sort   of the interesting part, right.
- (oh so they're not- there's not 26 on each-)
- there's not 26 sides, right,  there are - well so we went for 60 sides cos what 
we were going for is like, okay what can you do   that's the closest to the distribution of letters 
in the english language? so obviously there's   going to be more e's and t's then there are going to 
be q's and k's and j's and so on. and so we went for   60 because- you know you could do this for 30, you 
can make a 30-sided die but then you don't have   much wiggle room. because you want at least one of 
everything and then it's like, oh i've got my 26   and i got four extras okay which is going to be 
e and t and like, it just isn't going to give you a   good distribution. so 60 is reasonable, we have 
done 120 sides but it's a big expensive die and it's   kind of difficult to work with. and so this 60-sided 
thing was the thing to go for.
- (does each of the) (five dice have the same distribution?)
- yeah that's one of the things in like the logistics of doing   this, is like making each die- you know you're going 
to you- got to make a mold. and if you're going to   have- like i mean you could have different dice and 
and you know get the distribution be better; but it   would be more expensive to generate a mold for 
each one of them and so we all right, well what can we   do with one. 
- (what is the distribution? can we put it
on the screen or something or? or is that like) (your secret?)
- i mean it's not that secret cos you can just look figure it out!
- (so can i put on the) (screen what the distribution is?)
- absolutely 
- (so there's the distribution on the screen) (how did you come up with those numbers?) 
- well right, there's a bit of an interesting story   there as well. so this is essentially the same 
problem as assigning seats in congress, because   you've got very small states who you know if you 
went purely by the the numbers wouldn't have   any representation at all, you can't have that, so 
you need to add one here and take away one here.   so who loses out and who gains? so obviously the 
j's and the q's and the z's, they need to have a   bit of help cos otherwise you would't get any
- (and that's why we got a z now)
- right right yeah. so   it makes it more difficult and then you have to 
take it away from somebody's, how do you do it? you   can say, okay you have to round down to get this 
letter its number. so it deserves more so we'll   take away one from here or you know you can figure 
stuff out like that. 
- (when you were deciding,) (when you were making these decisions, did you do 
it purely mathematically or was there a bit of-)  (did you put a bit of thumb on the scale, personal preference?)
- uh there was no personal preference umm but we're not linguists so i won't say that we did 
it perfectly either. we just sort of, well it seems   sort of reasonable. the the the differences here 
are sort of minor. there's also like, which, you know   what what body of words do you use? 
- (your corpus - is that what you call ir?)
- a corpus right. should   it be just like the dictionary words or should it 
be the words as they're used in ordinary english  language? because it's different, if you're making 
sentences, if you're writing a book, certain letters   are going to show up more often and if you just 
look at the list of words in the dictionary. that's   different again, but these are all sort of minor 
things like, you know maybe this you know n gets   one more or not or something like that. ultimately 
i think we did okay.
- (do you enjoy playing the) (game? do you play it much?)
- um as with many of the 
things, i actually enjoy making the stuff more   than solving the puzzles but you know it's a fun 
thing to have around. next one. so this really is   sort of more of a puzzle of what it's for. so 
i want to give you a chance to think about it.   this video continues with part two, an even more 
ingenious dice to admire - there's a link in the   description. but if you like dice, well there are 
plenty of courses and puzzles over at brilliant   that are going to scratch that itch. for example 
just take a look at some of these. brilliant of   course is today's episode sponsor; it's full to the 
brim with great courses and quizzes, all sorts of   riddles that are going to take you deep into the 
world of mathematics, computer science and other   science subjects. one of the great things about 
brilliant content is that it's really interactive. but it's not like a 'you must get this right' kind 
of thing - it's more engaging, fun, playful. it's the   way learning should be. and there's always new 
stuff being added to their huge collection.   if you want to check them out there's a free 
30-day trial and numberphile viewers can get   a 20% discount on their subscription by going to 
brilliant.org/numberphile. you can also give people   a subscription as a gift - a thoughtful present for 
that inquiring mind in your family perhaps. have a  look, there'll be a link in the description. 
and good luck with all those puzzles about dice. if you're interested in any of the dice you 
saw in today's video, you can buy them actually.   i'll put a link in the description, you can 
find out more stuff. i'll also put links to   other dice videos we've done in the past. 
- psy- psychological and sociological setting   suppose that you think you can control the 
dice, of course you're not perfect at it...