- in a street fight, i would rather fight francis ngannou than fight bas rutten in a street fight. yeah, so very often people
ask me the difference between a street fight and a
fight in mixed martial art. the difference is in the
street, there is no referee. there is an instigator and
there is the other person. the best in life for a
street fight is always to not be the instigator because you have the element of surprise. so if you're in heated
argument with someone and then you feel that
you potentially gonna be into a fight, the best thing to do is to never show your center line. to always go on the side and
put your hand up like this. you know, that's one of
the best thing to do, it's a self-defense tactic that is used all around the world. 'cause from there, the
distance that i have to travel to cause a lot of damage
to him is very minimal, you know, it's very short. you know, i can go boom. i can go boom, and i'm protected because if he ever tried to do anything, my hands are already up. but i'm ready to respond
at any aggression. so the first thing is,
if you're in an argument and you feel the heat is
rising, is to hit first. you don't want to fight,
but you want to hit first. you want to hit first, you know? so it's either, boom, hit
first, depending the situation, if you're someone who's
much less physically strong than the aggressor you
can use that in the eyes, in the the genitals, the neck, you know? and then you can leave the scene. however, if i'm like this
and the minute he touch me, like he declare a war. now i can, you know, i can go and perform a self-defense move. - striking, not wrestling. - yes, yes. it's always striking
first and leave the scene. if you're, for example, a kid or someone who doesn't have the physical
strength of your aggressor. of course, i'm a ufc champion, so that does not apply to me. but the key is on a tactical, we always use the element of surprise. and when you strike, strike first, and strike to cause the
most damage as possible. the eyes, you can do the
neck, and do the genitals, and then after you can leave the scene. that's the goal of having
the element of surprise. - okay, we were talking about knives. what about if weapons are involved? run faster? - so, weapons is very important. if someone has a weapon and
attack me for having my money, i give them my money, even
if i'm georges st-pierre, and i'm ufc champion. however, someone put a
knife on my throat here and he's telling me to go in the trunk. now i don't want to go in the trunk because i've seen this movie
and it is a bad ending. so things that i can do
first, it's always make sure that i try to make my hand as close as possible as the weapon. and i try to be as
close range as possible. if he is here, i cannot do it because the distance is too far. if he's here, that's the idea. so i can act like i want to... - look scared? - yeah, please, please, please. boom. see here, here i used my body and then i can go and break, you know? so the idea is to use your entire body to deflect the weapon. so if the weapon is like this and the blade is coming out this way, i use the element of surprise. so i use my body, not only
grabbing him like this, so if he try to come back
with the knife, it's solid. then i can go and break. if the blade is pointing the other side, it's something here. here, i can use my body,
always to smother the weapon. - controlling the wrist, yeah. but if it is out here, just run. - if it's out here, you know, and yes, exactly, there's
too much distance. you want to make sure you
get close to the weapon because that's what can
cause the most damage. this is very important. there's other situation. let's say you're a kid or someone come grab you by the body, here, you grab by the body. what i can do is grab the head and put my fingers inside the eyes, will make my opponent to
release me immediately. then i can go and leave. - put my thumb in, like thumb? - yeah, thumb in the eyes. you push in the eyes.
- blind them. - there is no rules. the eyes is always my
favorite choice to go for. because if you cannot see,
it's very hard to fight. and normally the reflex for most people, when they can't see, they grab their eyes, you know? so it released the grip. - i'm not gonna ask you about the tie 'cause i think you're
wrong still about that. (georges laughs) i think it's possible, so like, it's possible to use it same as for like a head snatch,
like this kind of situation. it's supposed to choke. - i think it could be an
advantage if it's a fake tie. if it's like something that can go like a reptile, that like a
tail of a reptile that can go. so if you try to pull my tie, it goes out, and now i know i get a head start. - element of surprise.
- exactly! it's all about the element of surprise. you wan to strike first, the element of surprise in the street. - georges, thank you so
much for talking today. - my pleasure. - thank you for looking sharp. - men in black, baby. men in black.