as it is today, the aircraft manufacturing 
industry is dominated by two major players.   you got the american player boeing, 
and the european player airbus.   the two companies have been duking it out for 
decades while fighting off new market entrants. one of those new entrants is commercial aircraft 
corporation of china or comac. it is a chinese   state-owned company trying to challenge boeing 
and airbus in the commercial aircraft space.   it represents china's most concerted 
effort for this market yet. in this video, i want to trace china's recent 
work in breaking into the super-competitive   commercial aircraft manufacturing industry and 
why it has been so hard for them to make ground. china has always been interested in developing 
a viable commercial aircraft industry. but early   on after the country's founding, it focused on 
developing military aircraft. their most common   technique would be to acquire a soviet aircraft 
and try to backwards engineer an indigenous   version. this did not yield much success. the 
most prominent indigenous commercial aircraft   program before the economic reform era was the 
chinese y-10, launched by mao zedong in 1970. this aircraft looks like a reverse engineered 
boeing 707. that is because it was. the original   plan for the plane was to model it after the h-6 
bomber, a chinese imitation of the soviet tu-16. but in december 1971, a pakistani-owned boeing 707 
crashed in xinjiang and the chinese called it a   "gift from god". now they had a chance to reverse 
engineer what was then one of the most advanced   aircraft in the world. 500 engineers were sent to 
the crash site to study the wreckage for the y-10. this turned out to be exceptionally difficult. 
just because an example plane crashed in your   backyard does not magically mean you can make 
a plane now. the y-10 needed 435 parts and 305   had never been manufactured in china before. for 
example, the aluminum alloy. never done before in   china and when engineers tried, the resulting 
alloy was too heavy and so burned excess fuel. the resulting plane was too heavy, noisy and 
fuel-inefficient. it could only fly for an hour   before needing to refuel. to test the plane's 
structural integrity you need to put it into   a wind tunnel, but no wind tunnel existed in 
china that was large enough to accommodate it.   thus it could not be certified for safety and 
so no chinese party official dared to fly in it. the y-10 was discontinued in 1985 as china 
was granted a license to manufacture the md-80   and it shifted resources to do 
that. boeing would eventually   nix that partnership after its merger with md. a few years later in 1993, china's aviation 
industry was restructured to create   aviation industry of china or avic.   avic is the central state-owned giant of china's 
aviation industry. it or its joint-venture   subsidiaries have built all the components 
that go into china's military planes today. the initial goal in creating avic was to 
improve the technology and sophistication   of the planes being provided to the pla air 
force. this goal was not achieved. the plaaf   still declined to purchase avic's planes and 
opted to import from russia throughout the 1990s. in 1999, government thus tried to spur new 
competition in the industry by splitting avic   into two: avic i and avic ii. the former would 
focus on military and medium size aircraft.   the latter, transport aircraft and helicopters. in 2002, avic i launched the arj-21 program.   arj stands for "advanced regional jet", and it 
was a key part of the government's five-year plan. regional jets like the arj-21 are designed for   short flights of less than three hours 
and sit around 100 passengers or less.   the dominant player in this part of the 
market is brazilian company embraer. the plane was marketed as china's 
most comprehensive domestic product   yet - an independent design with 
indigenous intellectual property.   despite this claim, all of its main 
technologies came from the west.   some 19 european and american contractors 
provided 70% of the arj-21's components.   furthermore, more than a few observers noted 
the plane's close similarity to the md-80. regardless, the plane was heavily 
delayed after its 2002 announcement.   the maiden flight was scheduled for 2005 
with commercial service some time in 2007.   but the first production aircraft would not fly 
until 2014, nearly eight years behind schedule. as of 2020, there are 41 arj-21 
aircraft in service, all in china.   regional jets are a niche market in china as they 
directly compete with high speed rail. and without   extensive marketing muscle, the arj will not 
sell in meaningful numbers abroad. the chinese   probably learned a lot, but the plane itself 
is unlikely to ever be a commercial success. with the avic split failing to achieve its 
goals, the government re-merged the two in 2008.   comac was spun off from avic and was 
given charge of the arj-21 program. there are a few reasons for this spinoff. first, 
the government felt that foreign technology   partners would feel more comfortable dealing with 
an exclusively commercial aircraft manufacturer.   of course, this fooled nobody as avic 
remained a critical tier 1 supplier   and the single largest shareholder. secondly, the government had noticed that 
china's space program saw a lot more success   after similarly being spun off onto its 
own. since avic was currently bogged down   in delays and little progress had been made, the 
government felt that a new approach was needed. ok i want to take a brief step aside 
and talk a bit about the dynamics of   the commercial aircraft industry with 
special focus on how it works in china. the commercial aircraft industry 
is big and expensive. it requires   large upfront capital investment, 
as the costs of developing a new   plane are high. the boeing 777 
and airbus a380 planes cost   around $6-12 billion to develop. without existing 
revenues, government backed funding is required. furthermore, the two large incumbents hold 
advantages independent of capital and prices.   aircraft are extremely complicated. 
airbus and boeing are where they are today   due to the experiences (and mistakes) 
built over the span of 50+ years.   experience beyond just documented technical 
knowledge, but also unspoken know-how in how   to put these systems together and integrate them 
at scale. system integration at the highest level. the intense competition between these two well 
funded incumbents force them to constantly   innovate on their product and processes. 
suppliers are constantly pushed to do better.   each time airbus loses a deal to boeing and vice 
versa, the loser has to reflect on how they came   short and find a way to compensate. so it can be 
very easy for a third wheel to get left behind. lastly, aircraft manufacturers need to 
really know the legal side of the business   as well. each plane has to be certified by 
their respective governments as being fit   to fly. adhering to local regulations 
in both the us and europe is harder   than it seems and remains a significant 
barrier to entry for potential upstarts. in china, airliners purchase aircraft through the 
government. they need government approval before   such aircraft can be purchased. western aircraft 
makers, before being allowed to sell in china,   need to set up some sort of technology program 
in which they have to train and oversee chinese   workers. in other words, technology transfer. 
this has been going on for a long time. but as i   said earlier, succeeding in commercial aircraft is 
more than about having designs for a technology. china's domestic aviation market is the second 
largest in the world after the united states.   so the goal of developing a viable champion in 
the commercial aircraft market is more than just   national pride. there is also potentially a 
lot of money in play. so comac marched on. the c919 would be comac's second craft,   first announced in 2008. with the arj 
program successfully showing that china   can build products in line with its aviation 
goals, the c919 would show that it can develop   and build a viable single-aisle 150-190 
seat alternative to boeing and airbus. the plane's product strategy was to reduce fuel 
consumption by 15% over that of existing models   in the market. that would make the plane 
cheaper to own and run by some 10-12%. this   would be achieved through the use of composite 
materials - knowledge of which china acquired   after several years working with airbus sister 
company eurocopter. furthermore, the plane would   also offer more comfortable passenger seating, 
more overhead storage and spacious cabins. comac did not have significant revenues at the 
time and needed to draw on government funding and   orders from the domestic market. when launched, 
comac drew on $3 billion of paid-in capital from   shareholders and $4 billion in loans from state 
banks. the shanghai municipal government provided   guarantees for additional loans. altogether, 
the planned budget started out at $10 billion. when launched, it was announced that the 
plane would take its maiden flight in 2016.   to meet this ambitious date, 
comac signed deals with foreign   tier-one suppliers for many of 
the plane's critical components. as with the arj-21, the plane 
will be 70% foreign-made,   but those suppliers need to establish joint 
ventures with a chinese domestic player. foreign   companies have implemented certain countermeasures 
against the real threat of copying. for example,   they might split up the knowledge so that no one 
chinese employee knows everything or manufacture   some key component like the jet turbine blades 
outside of china. nothing is foolproof of course,   but most companies balance the upside with the 
risk of losing their intellectual property. as of this writing, the program is four years 
late on delivery to its domestic customers.   the total development budget is estimated to 
have ballooned from the original $10 billion   to about $33 billion. and that is an estimate 
i dug up from 2015 so it might be higher today.   higher budgets raise the number of planes that 
comac has to sell in order to recoup its costs,   assuming that prices remain 
the same. depending on what   you assume those prices would be, that 
totals out to be around 500 or so planes. comac has over 300 firm orders 
waiting on delivery for their c-919s   as well as another 700 commitments. almost 
all of these are from domestic airliners,   with the sole foreign buyer ge looking 
to lease these for the chinese market. it is not clear when the plane would be ready 
to challenge the duopoly internationally.   the marketing, sales and customer service 
departments would need to bulk up and   adjust to cultural differences. chinese banks 
have offered loans to foreign governments to   encourage purchases of the c-919, but with little 
success. airbus and boeing can procure loans too. furthermore, the c919's long delays have 
consequences in the larger product market.   when announced it had advances seen by 
the market as being quite competitive.   but as the delays stretched into years, the plane 
now faces a different competitive landscape. it now faces the airbus 320neo and the 737 
max. two of the best selling planes in the   world (groundings notwithstanding) with 
the max having 3,333 orders outstanding   as of november 2020 and the 320neo already 
selling some 7451 as of january 2021.   those two planes are about 10-15 years 
ahead of the c919, with greater range   and lower overall cost of ownership. this 
lead grows the longer the c919 is delayed. delays in airplane development aren't uncommon. 
this stuff is hard. the boeing 787 was delayed   about three years as the plane went through 
quality control issues. and then even after   that the plane had battery problems, which 
forced it to be grounded for several months. the key challenge for comac has been getting 
the management and system integration right.   like i mentioned before, airbus and 
boeing has moved to where their job is to   integrate different systems from different 
suppliers together in a harmonious way. project management is a real skill. one that comac 
and its subsidiaries are having trouble mastering.   lack of communication between comac's 
network of suppliers can lead to them   working on their own and producing a part 
that is incompatible with the aircraft. previously, members of the design, research, and 
manufacturing teams did not work closely together.   they worked in silos, doing just their 
individual part and nothing else.   hierarchal attitudes in state owned 
companies also discouraged any questioning   of the superiors' decision, burying 
issues until they became more serious. add to that persistent, cascading quality issues 
and you can start to see why delays can happen.   comac has hired western consultants to install 
best practices, but doing is way different from   learning. these are young teams, most under 
the age of 30, taking on this fantastically   hard thing for the first time. it is going 
to take some effort, money and experience. a lot of people have pointed to china's high speed 
rail industry as an example for comac to follow.   china has more high speed rail than any other 
country and leads the world in rail technologies.   it very rapidly developed 
its own indigenous capacity   after technology transfer agreements 
with western companies like bombardier.   this is a legitimate success story 
that chinese should be proud of. but the dynamics of this market are not quite the 
same. they might seem to be since both markets   are highly regulated, need boatloads of capital 
investment and are cool technology things. but   in high speed rail, the main and sole buyer is 
the government. the government sets the spec,   selects the winning bidders, and is the 
sole user. it is able to dictate the market. in the world of commercial aircraft,   sure, the government appoints and broadly sets 
the direction of airliner senior management.   but the airlines also have to run a business 
- a really difficult one - and get passengers.   no profit-making airliner is going to be 
a patriot and buy local if the product   is terrible. they will lose customers to their 
competitors - which is going to get them fired. and as for passengers ... well, did you see 
americans jumping into a boeing 737-max because   america? passengers have too many options today 
not to get on a plane they don't believe will   be safe. but it also has to be super cheap. but 
it also has to have amazing legroom. and so on. so this is the greater challenge. the 
product has to be good enough to compete   in a competitive market. there are no blue 
oceans here. even without the delays the arj21   and c919 aircraft lag the rest of the market - a 
market that is already constantly innovating. you   need to run twice as fast as the running deer in 
order to catch up to it, unless the deer stumbles. with that being said, the chinese government seems 
hell-bent to get there. and i think their strategy   development is on the right track. people make 
too much of the fact that the c919 and arj21's   components come from foreign-owned companies. 
the chinese clearly know that and don't care.   their goal is to master what 
boeing and airbus are good at:   the management, coordination and system 
integration. that is the special sauce. as i said before, it took those two 
incumbents over 55 years to get there.   comac and avic has been around for around 20. 
more time is needed before passing judgement.