- hey guys, this is austin, and we just bought every
console from gamestop. and it only cost us... (crinkling receipt) $1,283. (cash register dings) dude, what do they pack these things with? so shall we begin with the oldest, which was our dsi, and it cost us 49.99. i didn't realize it was going to be pink, but that's fine. - [ken] i'm okay with that. - next, we have our 3ds xl, which was a pretty hefty $100. ehh, okay, the screens are a little dirty, i think we could clean that up. now the switch was actually probably the worst deal we got here. this was $280. well technically, the msrp on
all switches is still $300, however, of course you've got
the switch lite at 200 bucks, and the fact that the red box switch, which we did do a full video on, has got so much more battery
life for, again, $300, means that there's zero, zero chance that this is going to be worth it, even if it's completely perfect. you know what, this switch
has a screen protector. moving back a few years,
we have our wii u, which is $110. that's not in great shape, there's a lot of scratches on that screen. eh, okay. i mean, that's, (chuckling) that's not good. moving on, we have the og wii, which is a cool $70. so this is the later model wii that does not support the gamecube. we should have checked for that, that kinda sucks. i mean, that was one of my
favorite parts of the wii is that you actually could so easily play those gamecube games. welp, so much for our super-cool wii. next up, we have our $100 playstation 3. now i believe that this
is the 80 gig slim model. oh! (clears throat) nevermind. this is the fat ps3. next up, we have the ps4, which costs a whopping $220. (blowing on console) we have (laughing) easy access
to the hard drive, still. next, let's get into
some xboxes, shall we? so apparently, we bought
a four gig xbox 360 slim, for 69.99. so as you can very clearly see, no hard drive. i actually wonder, how much do you think a 360 hard drive would cost these days? probably not that bad, huh? at $160, we have the original xbox one. we've got a day one controller here. that's pretty cool!
- ooh! - so this is a launch launch xbox one. the first thing i'll say about this, and i don't know what's goin' on here, this is all matte. like, the entire console. there's no glossy plastic right here, there's no glossy plastic here. is this a dbrand? so let's put these consoles to the test. and starting out with,
we have the xbox 360. now like i mentioned earlier, you do have to keep in mind
that with a four gig console, some games won't work. however, rise of the tomb raider shouldn't require any kind of install. (dramatic video game music) - [lara] thanks. - there we go. all right, i mean, seems fine to me. all right, so, the real question here, is did we get a good deal? i am almost positive that is not the case. so this was $70, i believe, right? now if we jump on ebay here, $35, buy it now, free shipping. or $40, with a 250 gig hard drive. yeah, we got ripped. next up, let's give our
day one xbox one a try. so i'm gonna throw a disc in here, this is titanfall 2, because it's the only
xbox one disc i have. (disc reader grinding) aw, did you hear that noise? wait, this disc drive works, right? it's not showing any games. okay, (laughing) well, um, not looking too hot for the xbox one! how much did we pay for this thing? $160! what's this gonna run on ebay? 134 for a s model, which
is much nicer than this. we can get an original for 120. - [ken] thumbs down. - hard thumbs down on the xbox one, yikes. i can't believe the
disc drive doesn't work. now it's time to take a
look at our playstations, and first up is our fat ps3. now these are not the most
reliable consoles in the world, but if you're able to get
one in decent condition, and especially considering that this does have the
backwards compatibility, i mean, yeah, you gotta
hope you get lucky. (robotic sound effects playing) (ps3 beeps) whoa, what? - [both] oh! - [austin] it just died! - [ken] whoa! - what?
- wow. - i got into the game for two seconds! - [ken] wow. - what does the blinking
red light mean, it just-- - [ken] overheating. - oh, dude! are you serious? "the system will restart,
check the file system, "and restore it if it is corrupted. "if the file system is corrupted, "it will take two to
three hours to complete." this is not a great
(chuckling) first experience. (robotic sound effects playing) there we go.
- ahh. oh!
(ps3 beeps) oh, dude, it, no. okay, that's not gonna work at all. i literally... that was even less time than last time! (chuckles) great. so, theoretically, i
can open this thing up and find out what's going on, but realistically, if someone buys this, i mean, you're not gonna be happy. you spent, how much did we
buy this thing for again? $100. on ebay, i'm seeing it for 100, $125, there are a few that
are bid up to 140, $150. this actually is a pretty good deal. this is the weird one, because if we're able to get this fixed, if we're able to keep it from overheating, we actually saved money
by buying it at gamestop. but this is a huge risk. i mean, i don't know if you remember, but they said that we were getting a slim, and they gave us a fat. so, i don't even know if we
were necessarily supposed to get this specific model. - [gamestop rep] ps3s, we have 80 gigs, 160, 320, 250 gigs. - [austin] okay, and those are
all the slim models, right? - [gamestop rep] yes. - let's see how the ps4 goes. - [ken] the odds right
now are that this ps4 is probably broken too. - no, it's fine. i'm sure it's fine. (disc reader grinding) i can't even put the game in it now. - [ken] shove it in. (disc reader grinding) (ken laughs) - what is wrong with these? i don't even care if this works right now, i think it just ate my disc! we have a disc light, though. oh! (laughs)
- oh, boy, okay. - these are all the consoles,
exactly the way they come. we haven't done anything to these. what is going on? i don't actually know if this
disc is gonna work anymore. (disc reader grinding) (ken laughs) - [ken] just help it. take it out of its misery.
- okay. verdict, what do you think? - [ken] mmm, it could be scratched. oh, what's that look? ooh, what? - let me try to clean this
up and get it back in. oh, it immediately works. the disc wasn't that dirty before. it definitely was not that dirty. - [ken] it's doing something. - especially, come take a look. do you see, now that i
look at it a little closer, do you see that little white speck here? there's actually some dirt,
or some grime, or whatever, on the side of the
little, the loading bay. i bet that the actual disc drive, there's just a little bit of
dirt or something on there, and as it's pulling the disc in, it was rubbing that dirt across the disc, and spinning it, and it
smeared it all over the bottom. that's why i was able to
wipe it off and it worked. - [ken] great. (austin laughs) whatever's on the front is
now all over the inside. - oh, you're right! all that just got pulled in. (ken laughs) all right, next up, we
have the nintendo switch. now we've already been
over, this is a poor value. at only $30 less than a
brand new, red box switch, there's no way this makes sense, although, what does the
original switch go for? eh, we're looking at probably about 240, 250, generally speaking. that's not bad. 'kay, so i mean, touch screen seems fine. do you think, wait, doesn't the newer pokemon
games have some censoring so you can't name your
rival certain words? oh, it was d*****g! (laughs) excellent. look, i'm still six, okay? it's fine. next up, we've got the wii u. now, hopefully this is just paired. i haven't used a wii u in a-- (gamepad clatters to table) - [ken] well, we can't blame gamestop on that, now can we? - it's fine. here's the test, is this
disc drive functional? oh, look at that. smooth, simple, clean. 720p! - [ken] still no nipples. - (laughing) still no nipples! so, we spent $110 on this wii u, which i think is a pretty decent deal. and yes, it is. so take at ebay, for example, there's a lot of 110 to 120. now this is actually probably the best console we picked up, if not in the greatest cosmetic shape, but that's actually a
completely reasonable price. okay, we have a functioning wii. so obviously, this is not
the wii that you want, you will most likely want the one with gamecube compatibility. however, let's see if it
can actually play a game. what wii games do we have? oh yeah, bought the stupid star wars game! - [ken] stupid star wars. (laughing) - come on, it's a star
wars game for the wii, it's not gonna be good. yeah!
(lightning zapping) yeah, there we go! this is how you're
supposed to use the wii! who said the wii wasn't any fun? (ken laughs) - [ken] aw, this is great! - so, the wii cost us $69. - [ken] nice. - 45 bucks will get us
a fully functioning, original wii, which again,
has gamecube compatibility, much better than this one. shall we get into the
portable consoles, now? - [ken] yeah. - all right, so let's start
with the nintendo dsi, in this excellent shade of pink. now, i actually really like the dsi. this was definitely my
favorite of the ds consoles, and i happen to have the
greatest pokemon game of all time to try, heartgold. sorry, you can play nintendogs later. - [ken] aw. (vocalizing along with game music) - why do i have a charmander, what? how do i have a charmander? so we paid $50 for this dsi, which i think might not be
the worst deal in the world. oh wait, i lied. i just found a $26 pink dsi on ebay. oh. all right, not that bad of a deal. let's try the 3ds, 'cause that one was
actually properly expensive. oh yeah. nah, this is totally fine. okay, i think it is safe
to say that our 3ds works. now, this was expensive. i think it was actually quite expensive, at a whopping 99.99! (laughing) 70, 80 bucks. i mean, it's definitely not a good deal, but that's actually not totally crazy. so we've learned a lot today, but the last and most important
test is still to come. what happens when we bring these consoles back to gamestop and trade them in? although now that most
of them are not working, we're probably not gonna come out particularly well on this one. (laughing) - [ken] aw. it's actually kinda funny, because when we first went to gamestop to try to buy all of these consoles, they didn't even wanna sell it to us. i guess they found us suspicious. - [gamestop rep] so, for
a purchase this size, i just found out from my store leader, and we can't do it as of right now, 'cause i need the district
leader's approval, and everyone's on conference
right now nashville. - [austin] i mean, to be
fair, we've waited two weeks so that we're outside
of the return policy, purely because we're not
trying to scam gamestop. - oh, yeah!
- we legitimately want to sell them these consoles. - yeah, we're basically
giving them free money, which they need, because, well, time's tickin', they're not
gonna last that long! (laughs) - [austin] ken "savage" bolido. - say it, i'm not wrong. (both laugh) - all right, so we have successfully sold all but one of our
consoles back to gamestop. so, the only one they
didn't take was the ps3, and weirdly enough, it wasn't even for the issue we had. it was because they said that, what, the hdmi port was corroded?
- the hdmi was corroded, and i could visibly see it. - so this seems like
a lot of money, right? well shall we see exactly
what we were able to get? 341, 342, 343, 344, 345, 346, 347, 348. and our grand total is $349, (cash register dings) after we spend $1,283
purchasing the consoles. (roblox oof plays) what's the moral of the
story for this video? i'm not quite sure, besides we make very poor
investment decisions. - [ken] yeah, we're not
gonna survive either. - gamestop's gonna have
to rescue us, next. - [ken] not if they're dead.