(playful music) - hey guys, this is austin.
we've had the chance to take a look at lot of very
cool audis this year. from the q7, to the r8 on
the track to the e-tron but the a7 might just
be my favorite one yet. as always, huge shout to audi
for sponsoring this video and for hooking up with the a7 for a week. at first glance, this looks
similar to the last gen car, which is not a bad thing at all. take one look at the rs 7
and it should be pretty clear why i think, this is one of
the best looking four door sedans of all time, but i will
say that the a7 definitely does step it up. don't be fooled
though, this car is all new for example, the led
headlights look so cool, especially at night. this
also comes across with the tail lights. so now they
did run across the entire length of the back of the
car, but they're all led and they even animate out
nicely when you turn your turn signal on, it's a super cool touch. the new a7 does share a
lot of dna with the a6, but one of the big differences
is of course that it is a sportback. which means that
there is a ton of cargo space we popped the back,
you'll see that we have a ton of stuff loaded up
in here. now there are a couple of camera cases, we
have a bunch of random little bags and accessories, what's
nice is that we can take all of this, and still
have plenty of room for...ken and i don't know, people inside. get the a7 out on the freeway, and this is really where things shine.
so not only do we have great adaptive cruise control,
but we also have that paired with the lane keep assist. so, we're in a little bit
of mixed traffic right now and what really impresses me is
just how smooth everything is. so the car is completely handling
the throttle and the brake and the steering is pretty
much all completely automatic as well. i do need to keep a
hand on the wheel, but beyond that the lane keep assist
does a really good job of keeping us centered and more
importantly driving smoothly. so, i've driven a fair few cars
that have various levels of driver assistance and self
driving capabilities, and while they generally do work pretty
well, usually you can tell it's not a real person driving
because it's not quite smooth right, it's a little jerky,
doesn't quite stay in the lane quite right, it'll like drift
back and forth. but, here it really does feel like a
normal person is driving. the a7 is loaded with cool
tech, take one look around this interior and you'll see
that audi does cabins right. now you see this great wood
finish that wraps around the front, but if i turn the
car on you'll also see that led lighting which goes
all over the place. it's actually really subtle
look but it's nice to have just a little bit of an accent
here, over here, down here, pretty much everywhere you'll look. if you saw the video we
did on the e-tron recently, then this center stack
will look very familiar. so on the bottom we have a
touch screen, which is mostly used for things like the
climate control as well as a few system settings and
on top of that we also have a much bigger touch screen and
this is used for navigation, radio, all the kind of fun stuff. this is also where you'll find the excellent 360 degree view. it is super cool to be able
to see now from a top-down perspective, but also to see
a full 360 around your car just to see, exactly where
everything is, it looks so cool. it's like a video game here, i
can see from outside the car, from inside the car, and
that's thanks to a series of cameras that are wrapped around a7. one of my favorite features
is inside the console. now that we do have qi
wireless charging, so you can just set my phone down
and will begin to charge. but on top of that we also
have wireless carplay. it's totally seamless, and it is so dope. there's also an upgraded
version of virtual cockpit. now a lot of other cars are
moving away from physical gauges, but this purely
digital setup with a nice high resolution screen
looks really nice, and it's a big step up from my car. (playful music) for big car, this thing
actually handles pretty well so, it is helped that we have
those big 21 inch wheels in those sticky summer tires.
i mean, you get this up in canyons and, it handles pretty well. which is weird cause like in
my head, i know just how big this car is, this is a
very large sportback. once you actually get it out on the road, the size definitely kinda
shrinks, it feels much more nimble maybe not quite like an rs3 but close. man the drive is so smooth. so, the a7 actually
does take advantage of a mild hybrid system, so
there's a 48 volt battery underneath the cargo floor in the back, and what that gives you is
just a little bit of extra torque with the electric
motor to get rid of any kind of minor turbo
lag, which i can't tell if there's any at all,
and on top of that it's really cool because it allows
you to easily start the motor very seamlessly,
when you're at a start or stop. (car engine roaring) (laughing) sorry, i just had to do that. so, we do have a seven speed
dual clutch transmission. and of course it does a great
job of sort of driving around in automatic mode. but you do
have the paddles, if you wanna have a little bit of extra
fun. i've gotta say, there is a lot to like with the new a7,
between all the cool tech as well as just how well it drives
for such a big sportback. not gonna like, kind of excited
for that new rs7 though.