- today, we are gonna build
the world's largest lego tower. here's how. this is chris' foundation. and this is chandler's platform. - that's me. - and whoever has the
tallest tower after 12 hours gets $50,000. and you're probably wondering, how do they build these
towers up to the clouds? we have heavy duty machinery. they can build these towers
as tall as they want to. also, your partner is carl. so, chris, if you win the 50-grand, you have to split it with carl. - yeah.
- yeah! - this is your partner. now, if you accept tyler, you have to split the prize with him. - acceptance. - all right, get started,
the time is counting down. and if we use up this entire
pile, we have more in a truck. and this is just one of
many trucks full of lego. - this is a lot of money. hey, chandler! - hey, over there, don't touch my money! (upbeat rock music) - we started with two people on each team. now this team has four people
and that team has four people. these towers are about to get big. (upbeat rock music) - so far, your tower's about
four-feet and three inches. - that's pretty good. (bell pinging) - we'll get to nipple height soon. - yeah. - if you don't follow me on
twitter, here's the tweet. one day i found out that
my nipples are exactly four feet and eight inches off the ground. you're welcome. oh my gosh, they're over nipple height. chris, their tower's five
and a half feet tall. - good for them! - if i was to end the challenge right now, they have a taller
tower, they get 50-grand. - too bad you still need a video. - i do. this is a bowling ball. guys, stop building, line-up. line-up.
- no! - here's the bowling ball. come right here. bowl that bowling ball. (everyone cheering) - okay. i mean, it's not too brutal. here's the difference. chandler's tower has a wall protecting it. let's see if it works. here you go.
- shall shot put it? - he's doing the loop-de-loop. (squeaky toy squeaking) - how does it feel, chris? oh, i fixed it! - so as you guys can see
the wall actually worked. good job! - yeah! - if we keep doing this, we will get it. - [jimmy] are you building a bigger wall? - no.
- of course. oh, we're not on the same page. - the top of their
tower is taller than me. things are about to get interesting. - all they did was just a
little damage off the sides. we can rebuild this easy. - we need to build on the sides, 'cause our goal is to build two towers and then connect it here
for more structural support. - this right here, sturdiest wall you've ever
seen in your freaking life. - you guys have 20 minutes to
complete this mini-challenge. the loser has to boot
someone off for 30 minutes. whoever's tower is the tallest by the end of 20 minutes wins. you guys have 20 minutes. - just grabbing a bunch of onefers. - so if you guys don't
have the tallest tower, who will you get rid of? - chandler's the captain,
i'm not making that decision. - all right, we're just
building them too high, as big as we can go. and by too high, i mean
four high, math is hard. - only up from here, baby. - so we're finally using the crane. this is where it gets fun. - we're just gonna put this on
top before the time is over. - so my plan is i'm gonna
go a little bit higher, 'cause i know zach's a tall bean. that's why we got him and sort of weddle, 'cause weddle sucks! - [weddle] yeah, well, that's true. (dramatic music) - it's time for armageddon. - while we have this opportunity, we need to tear that wall down. - yeah, long game. - three, two, one, fire! that didn't do anything. - [chris] how'd you throw
a ball that's so heavy? - and the wall held up. it's impenetrable. - wall!
- wall! - wall!
- wall! - it wasn't the wall. it's that it's impossible
to throw a bowling ball. - i didn't even make it that far. - three, two, one, fire! - yeah!
- yeah! (chris' team cheering) - the only thing that was
broke was the bowling ball. (chris cheering) back to work! (dramatic music) - just toss it all into the bucket. just toss it all into the
bucket and then just start. - chris, have a bunch of ones built before you throw them. - holy crap! - [jimmy] 10. nine. eight. seven. - please don't knock it over. - that right there. - [jimmy] three. two.
- [chris] yes, keep going. - one. stop moving! i got my trusted tape measure. timmy! the tower is 20 feet and two inches. (chandler's team cheering) congratulations, your
tower is over 20 feet tall. - yes!
- yeah! - and we still have this much time left. - [chandler] i hope it's enough. - here's the deal. you're not allowed to support the tower. everyone get off! - ours is blocking the wind from yours. - that's not how science works. - it actually is. - [chris] let it go! - carl, you should've let it go slowly. chris, your tower's about
eight and a half feet tall. (chandler's team cheering) you gotta boot someone off
your island for 30 minutes. - zach. - zach, you're gone for 30 minutes. - the biggest thing for this
tower is we need integrity. - okay. - and that's why we have to cheat. - why don't you go to lowe's, get really long metal rebar
and then quick dry cement. do not fail me. - all right, i got you. (upbeat rock music) - chandler, you get one swing. you can hit whatever you want. the lower you hit, the more sturdy. - [carl] chillax, think about it. if you go easy, i'm just saying. (chandler roaring) - carl, he just obliterated your tower. do not let him get away with that. (carl roaring) (chandler's team clapping) - lol, lol! - why are you sabotaging us, carl? we only listen to your strategy. (upbeat rock music) - we're gonna add concrete to our bricks. so that way they stay together better. (gentle music) we're gonna pour it right down the middle to hopefully harden the
inside of the structure. - is no one seeing this? - what's he doing? - they put concrete. - it doesn't make their tower taller. now they're just being stupid. - chandler's tower's looking really tall. here's a comparison. - [man] wow! - and here's the other tower. - why'd you say that so sad? (gentle music) - if chris falls he's
gonna break something. i don't know why i'm
laughing, that's not funny. now that the towers are
getting freakishly tall, it's time we introduce hard hats. - i don't feel anything, what's going on? - this is so hard when you're tired. oh my god. - i don't think i've touched
the ground in like three hours. (fist tapping) - good enough. (man speaking indistinctly) (upbeat synth music) - i completely exerted all of my energy. - [jimmy] oh god!
- so i'm gonna go home. - [jimmy] you're going home?
- yeah. - [jimmy] oh no, what about your team? - all the proceeds will go to them. i will take none of it. - [jimmy] let's break
down the news to them. - okay. i'm going home to sleep. - okay. - do well in spite of me. you can do it. - chandler's team has now lost chandler. - this is really bad. - [chris] it's an embarrassment
for the building community. - it's leaning, it's
wobbling, we're freaking out. really, all it takes right now is one big gust of wind to push it over. (gentle music) - we good! - i don't know if i like
the rope method as much. it's so heavy. - build this up right here, 'cause this is kind of a weak spot. we already got taller, we
just gotta get sturdier. - so right now's our
time to build up, up, up. 'cause ours is good. - we did the structure from the start and look where we are now. - look where we are. late game, baby! (dramatic music) - oh! (lego blocks thudding) (lego blocks rattling) (windows error beeping) - as you guys saw, their tower fell. it went from being 35,
40 feet to maybe 15 feet. that's pretty brutal, guys. - hurts a little bit more
than you probably realize. we can come back from it though. positivity! - 50-grand is still on the line. two hours. what's your plan now? - build it back, very simple. let's go! - i'm worried we're gonna build more and then it's gonna fall because of that. - exactly. only build if we have to at this point. - we're just gonna win. - [jimmy] mm hmm! - shut up! (dramatic music) - we're catching up. we're not there yet,
but we're catching up. but, at the same time, there's is so tall a gust of wind comes by
that knocked ours down again there's is going down. - we're scared if we keep on
adding blocks to the top of it it's gonna start wobbling,
'cause we're touching it so fast. they're getting up there fast. they're going into laser speed. carl, you're there for support. - they genuinely will go
down, we need to do something. - all right, let's go, let's go, let's go. (dramatic music) - i hate this so much! i can't tell you how terrible this is. this is the worst thing
i've ever experienced. (jimmy chuckling) (dramatic music) - and time is up. the final height of chris's
tower is that ginormous being. and the final height of chandler's, jk, it's now timmy's tower, is that. before we measure the towers, we have a bowling ball throw. after this we'll measure both towers and the tallest one wins $50,000. this could win him 50-grand. - [timmy] please no! oh my gosh, it's still up. - it's so hard to aim a
duct tape bowling ball. who would've thought. - all right, that is
your guys' final chance to knock it down. you guys are done.
- all right. - [tyler] here we go, hit it! come on! - yes, yes, yes! you guys thought that was stupid. you said it was stupid
and it protected us. - let's go! - not gonna lie, they were
kind of disappointing, but we're gonna measure. (dramatic music) guys, your tower is exactly 29 feet and four and a half inches. all right, drop it, tyler. - [chris] i can't the
suspense, dude, tell us! - are we sure this is straight? do you actually wanna know? (teams groaning) - [chris] what go you mean? - all right, before i tell you. it seems fake, i mean, it was 29 feet and five and a half inch. (weddle cheering) - woo! - woo! - woo! (tyler, timmy, and weddle cheering) - someone measure one
block for me real quick. - [timmy] they're like
two and a half inches. - yeah, you guys lost by exactly a block. (chris laughing) - aah! - carl in the background. - look at carl in the
background. (laughing) - that's what i think
about your towers, jimmy - here is your one-third. $17,000. i got a suitcase full of money for you, so cowabunga! and chandler left early,
so it's up to you guys if you wanna give him
part of the 50-grand. - why didn't you stay and help? that's just all i'm asking. - because i had no energy. - here you go. - you did give me compliments. - thank you, guys. - and of course this is a mrbeast video, so you have one hour to spend
the money you just made. - of course.
- it's already counting down. - why wouldn't we. - so my brother, zach,
has student loan debt and i'm gonna give it to
him so he can pay it off. this is for you to pay off
your student loan debt. - are you serious? - yes, there you go, man. - thank you. (zach speaking indistinctly) - you can pick that up. - dude! - my mom's hours at work got
cut because of current events and my little brother has
never had a car before so we're gonna try to fix
those problems right now. i'm giving him four and my mom 10. - all right, carson, you know
how you don't have a car? - yeah, i know about it every day. - well, how would $4,000
go towards your car? how would that feel? - what?
- yeah, no, for real. - it would be very helpful. thank you so much. - he's giving your mom $10,000. - dude, what? - bye, carson! - his mom doesn't have facetime. - [mom] hello?
- mom. you know how your hours
at work got reduced? how would $10,000 sound? - [mom] what! are you kidding me right now? - no, i'm not kidding you right now. - [mom] oh my gosh! i don't even know what to say. - that was all, he's
gonna show up at your door with a briefcase full of money soon. - [mom] i'll make sure it opens. - yeah, i would hope so. - we're here to buy another car. what car you buying? - we're gonna have to figure that out. - so this is where jimmy took me when a meteor fell on my car. - i know, and in this video right here, i actually bought a
car from the same spot. so we understand your pressure right now. also you have 10 minutes, so we probably should hurry a little bit. let's go! come on, come on! i can rock with this,
i can rock with this! woo! - i don't wanna pressure
you into buying this. - right. - but there isn't much time left. - we might as well just do it. - sure. - let's do it.
- okay. is this what you were
expecting to happen today? - not really, but i'm happy it is. 'cause this is crazy, man. - so do you own a car? - i do now. (laughing) - and lastly it's tyler. why are we in front of this house? - because i'm getting my
mom one year free stay. - to clarify your mom has
no idea you're doing this. - no idea.
- oh gosh. - and she really needs this,
so she's gonna freak out. [tyler's mom] hey, baby.
- hey, mom. i won a challenge, so i'm gonna
get you a house for a year. you don't have to pay- - [tyler's mom] me a house for a year! - yes, you. you don't have to pay for
rent for the rest of the year. yeah.
- [tyler's mom] shut up! - no, i'm not gonna shut up,
i'm gonna continue to talk. - [tyler's mom] that's ridiculous. - basically, tyler won a
briefcase full of money. - by building legos by the
way, that's pretty cool. thanks for teaching me. i love you, mom. - [tyler's mom] i'm glad i'm not on video. oh, thank you guys. i'm shaking so much right now. i'm so glad i'm not on video. - all right, love you,
mom, thanks for answering. - [tyler's mom] love you, baby. - i literally built legos
and now i have a house. that is amazing. (laughing) (bomb exploding) [music] mrbeast 6,000 [music] (bomb exploding)