- i literally bought every
single item in five stores. starting with this one. all right boys, fill up the carts. i want everything in the store. - do these zebra pants
count as everything? - if it's in the store we're buying it. in this video right here, we bought everything in a store and you guys really liked the video. so now we're doing it again. but with five stores - you really wanna buy
everything in the store? - i'm being dead serious. we want to buy every
single thing in your store and we will pay the price. - it's all for sale that's for sure. (all laugh) - all right. - do you need me help
you pack it or anything? - just put it all into carts. just start grabbing stuff,
we need to get all of it. - if anybody knows how
to buy their own store it's the people who work here. - okay, i got it. - you want me to pull? - yes, pull, pull, pull. - we're gonna be donating
all these jackets to people in need. so it's actually really good that we got all these warm
puffy jackets for 'em, 'cause it's cold outside. - did you guys need things
to keep your face cozy? - these jackets are $340 a piece. i just grabbed like eight of 'em. - what? they make jackets that expensive. - hey, it's for people in need. yeah! - yeah. - this is about seven
grand of beanies in here. - $7,000 in beanies? - oh, beanies alone. - we still have four more stores. - yeah we do! - whose idea was this? - literally yours. - fair enough. - i'm headed to retirement. - i'll see you on the golf course. - i'm using my brain. i don't know where i'm
supposed to go with this now. - jimmy said everything. - can we do this? - i don't know. - they're hand typing in
every single item we buy. how about i make things easier? do you just know what
everything in the store's worth? - approximately what it is, yes. probably takes $75,000 for it. - $85,000, then! $85,000? all right, $85,000. just put it all in the u-haul. we don't even have to scan it. i wasn't joking when i said we would buy every single item in this store. and obviously i don't need hundreds of shirts, jackets, and shoes. so, we're gonna donate
it to the salvation army. - all right. - and as you can see, this is a brand new salvation army store. they don't even have
stuff on the shelves yet. and yeah here's the time lapse
of us off loading everything. one store out of five down. up next, we're gonna buy
everything in gamestop. this is going to be fun. i wanna buy everything in the store. - i don't see a problem with it. - i don't see a problem at all. carl, you're in charge of this wall. - this one. - chris, you're in charge of this wall. - all right. - nolan, you're in charge of this wall. - done. - chad, chad, chad, chad. in the last video you
threw a lot of things. you were pretty destructive. a lot of comments didn't like that. promise me you won't throw anything. - i'm not, i'm not. i'm not, i'm not.
- okay, okay, okay. good, good, good. whew. am i allowed to buy these as well? - 15 cents a pop, yeah. - all right. i guess
we're buying the racks. now, when we say everything,
we mean everything. - they made "far cry 6"? did anyone play that? - sean, what's your strat here? - being careful and not
destroying anything. - we got socks. we got beanies, it's getting cold out. - how many copies of
"avengers" on the playstation 4 does one store need? this is probably more than
they actually sold in total. - yeah, because i count
more than just one there. - i need another cart, this one's full! - we have five shopping
carts full of video games. i think we should start scanning. - this is gonna take forever. - how much do you think this will cost? - a lot. - a lot, yeah. - while we're here, i'd like
to take this opportunity to say if any of these games
that we're buying right now would like to sponsor
us, i'll take your money. - i either love all of them or
have no opinion on them yet. - so far the total's up to like 30 grand but thank god they have a clearance rack. - hey, could we pay full
price for this stuff? - shut up. we cleared this wall. we're clearing this wall. we're making great progress. this is insane. this is literally over 1,000 video games. as you can see the
entire gamestop is empty. we literally bought every thing. and now it's time for the
moment you've been waiting for. he is currently pulling the receipt. oh my goodness. - hey, hey, we found the end. - well, if you didn't
believe me when i said we bought everything, now you know. i wanted to do something special with the games we bought from this store. so we decided to wrap everything. and now we're at the boys & girls club which is a charity that
helps children in need. and we're gonna unload the
thousands of wrapped up games and stuff so they can have
the best christmas ever. this is a pro gamer move. this one's really special to me. i just genuinely hope
that these games really make these kids day. - for this next store, we're gonna do something
a little different. we're buying every car on this car lot. - again. - funny story, in this video right here we bought every car in the lot. so this is our second time doing this. let's see how they react. - what's up mike? it's been a while. - hey, it's jimmy from mrbeast. - i'm actually here to buy the lot again. - again? - again. - ah, my god. - i'm sorry. okay, and there we go. all right. - thank you. - let's do this. we have the same banner from last time. i never got rid of it. i literally bought all these cars here and i don't even know what i bought. - is this a "call of duty" hummer? - yes, indeed. - what? - i'm trying to find the keys. - you're just giving this away? - boys you know what we gotta do. put $0 on all of them. it is illegal to charge for a car here. - i don't know if that's
how legality work, - hey guys, we have our first customer. i don't care. kelly, you take one of them. chris, you take one of them. - so what are you looking for in a car? - honestly anything. - all right, let me go
get the keys real quick. i'll be right back. - oh, i didn't know i was getting keys. okay, this is crazy. that's it? - completely free. - oh my gosh, okay. - i made a sale, jimmy! yo, selling cars is easy. why doesn't everybody do this? - this one? - yes, the black is perfect. - simple man, deal. - oh, this is awesome.
i can't believe this. came here to try to get a nicer car for the family and stuff. i can't believe it. thank you mrbeast. - that went pretty well. to celebrate, let's show them
what we've been working on. the triple down. - hey. - hello? what kind of car do you want? - my son, he's about to get his permit. so i want something for him. - ooh. i don't know anything about cars, but this looks cool. congratulations. it's all yours. - for real? - yeah. - my son is gonna be so happy! - this is perfect, the perfect gift. - there is so much going on. chandler's helping someone. nolan's helping someone. chris is helping someone. carl's helping someone. what the heck? - congratulations then. if you want it, it's completely yours. how does that sound? - for real? - yes, absolutely. - i'm so happy. thank y'all so much. - congratulations, you own a truck now. - this is legal? - which one speaks to you the most? - this one was speaking to me. - then that's the one. all right, it's yours. - literally? - yeah. it's free. - like, free free? - yes. - yes.
- you like it? - i love it. - okay, then it's completely yours. - y'all really made a dream come true. and thank you guys so much. - as you can see, we have
now given away every car except for this last one. and the problem with this last
car is it's actually a stick and no one knows how to drive a stick. except one person i know. you know how to drive a stick, don't you? - yeah. - yeah, timmy!
- yeah! timmy! - timmy got a car! - you're a good cameraman.
here's a brand new car. (cheering) - yeah. - so tim, because you know
how to wobble this thing you just got a free car. - yeah! - and with that car gone,
store number three is done. two more to go. we're at the fourth store. yada, yada. you already
know what we're doing. - we're buying everything. - just double checking, you okay with me literally
buying everything in your store? - yeah. - here you guys go, here are some carts. you know what to do. i want everything in this store! - go go go, go go! - oh no. - oh god. - all right, carl. pick up the golf balls. - look at how much stuff is in this store. this is gonna be so expensive. - i just assumed it was a fake call. and then he actually showed up. - this is how i lost an island, 'cause i couldn't make a corn hole shot. (duck quacking) - some of these baseball bats are $500. - wait, what? how is a baseball bat 450 bucks? - jimmy, can i keep this? - are you charity? - maybe. okay, you're right. all right, i'll donate it. - we gotta get this outta here, right? - we are gonna buy this. - i got it. - whoa, slow down. slow down man! - we called up a bunch of
local high school coaches and we're gonna let them come
get equipment for their team. basically, we are buying
everything in this store. whatever you grab for
your teams you can keep, so go grab whatever you want. - they're coaches, all
they know is hustle. - could your kids use a javelin? - i could definitely use a javelin. - your players are gonna be so happy. what the heck? - we've been needing new shoulder pads for about 10 years now, so. - oh really. - we have one of the lowest
poverty areas in the county and some of our kids go
without equipment sometimes. and this is gonna be a
tremendous game breaker for them. being able for y'all to give back to the
community like you are. i appreciate everything
that y'all done for it. - everybody's so blessed. - it's definitely been a blessing
all across the community. - unbelievable. look at all these things, you kinda gotta step back and just kind of thank god and thank him as well. - it took so long, but the
store is finally empty. and if you're wondering what the total is, you wanna read it off to them? - $85,000. - 85 grand for this entire store. so, here you go. and we're gonna head to the next store. and now we're gonna buy the fifth and final store, food lion. we've already conquered four stores. - ha! - you didn't ha. - ha! - i want everything. - all right, let's go. you start on the right,
i'll start on the left. - i guess i'm gonna start
off with the ranch section. i can't believe i'm about
to spend 10 grand on ranch. - all we need to focus
on is macaroni right now. there's so much of it. - i feel like we got enough
chocolate, don't you think? - do we have all of it? i'm sorry, do we have all of it? - no no, there's a lot of chocolate. - no, i'm sorry. maybe we have all of it then. 'cause you just said we have enough. - no, we don't have all the chocolate. - we don't have all the chocolate. - okay, let's get the
rest of the chocolate. our first cart done. let's look at the damage. - not a lot. - it looks like we weren't even here. we gotta go faster. - faster. - get the beans, get the beans. - beans, beans, beans. - we really haven't done anything. - it's been three minutes. we've got like three pieces of inventory out of this entire aisle. - oh my god. - all right. i got a cart full of ranch. - you know, they call me ranch. - why? - 'cause i be dressing. - look how much other stuff there is. i didn't even make a dent in my aisle. - more mac, sean, get it. - how are we supposed to do this? look how long this is. - this is gonna take years. - i'm gonna make some
phone calls, we need help. - yeah, please. - howdy there. chris, go ahead and start
throwing your mac and cheese up. - oh yeah. - nolan, help me unload ranch. all this is less than 1% of the store. food lion called in extra
people to help us pack carts. this is hilarious. - nolan, here's some ranch. - no, i just got done with the ranch. - we've been going for like an hour. we haven't even cleared out a single aisle and there's like 16 in the store. i think we need them to
bring in more employees. at the start of this video, we bought everything in a clothing store. then we bought an entire
gamestop, a car lot, and then an entire sports store. and now we're buying an entire food lion. - it never ends. - so far, we've spent
over $30,000 on food. this is ridiculous. - this is a u-haul full of food. and you might think that's crazy but we have another u-haul full of food. which you're probably thinking is nuts. two u-hauls full of food? well, what if i told you
we have a third u-haul - no!
- full of food? - not a third one! - can i have this holographic
dinosaur lunch box? - if you clear off the
entire pudding shelf, yes. - let's do it. - taco. - load it faster. - i'm, i am. - make mom proud. - i'm trying. - sean, i just gave you a house. the least you could do is
load the beans quicker. - is this all the pudding? - this is all the pudding. - here's your 3d dino sandwich box. - yay. thank you. - no problem. he's so easy to keep happy. we have literally filled
up over 300 carts so far. cumulatively, across all the checkouts, we've spent over 70 grand so far. we're only like 20% of the way there. - yeah, we got a long way to go. - i'm gonna go call my bank. so far, we've cleared this aisle. we're almost done with this aisle. and this one as well. - wait, wait, wait, wait. we didn't get everything. we forgot this one goldfish. - eat it, eat it, eat it, eat it, eat it. - i don't- - we started buying stores 20 hours ago. it's been a long day for me and the boys. i talked to the manager and we both agree it's best for the community if i only buy half the store. and don't worry, they have a food truck landing in literally an hour. everything will be restocked
by tomorrow morning. - change the title to
four and a half stores. - shut up. - so like i said, we didn't
end up buying the entire store. we only bought half of it. we wanted to be responsible and leave food here for our community. but half a food lion is
still really expensive. so what's the total? - $122,082 and 15 cents. - 122,000, i can live with that. look at how long the receipt
is, i'm not even joking. it actually might be tied
with the gamestop receipt. it is so long. we currently have seven
u-hauls full of food out front and we're gonna take them to a food pantry and give all the food to people in need. we are now at my food
pantry with eight u-hauls. apparently there was an extra
one i didn't even know about. filled to the brim with food. look at how epic this looks. and this right here is my partner, darren. so when we adopted all the
dogs at an animal shelter, he worked there and i really liked him. and so i was like, hey, you
wanna help me run a food pantry? and he was like - you don't say no to mrbeast. - that's literally what he said. and so, yeah, he moved down here and he is helping me run this food pantry. and i haven't told you guys
much about my food pantry yet but so far we've given
out over 30,000 meals and that food out front might
help us double that number. i made a separate channel
called beast philanthropy where i plan on doing
blogs about our food pantry and just helping people in genuine need. i really want to change lives. and hopefully one day we
can feed millions of people with this food pantry. - we're gonna do it. [music] mrbeast6000 oh, whoa [music] [music] mrbeast6000, yeah you know his name [music] [music] he changed it once or twice
but i think it's here to stay [music]