- [mr. beast] i'm going
to give random people hundreds of thousands of dollars. - is this for real? - what? for real? - oh my god. - [mr. beast] here's how. this is me. and i'm pretending to be a news reporter. and i emailed a bunch
of random people asking if my news station could interview them. little do they know this
interview isn't real, and i'm gonna give them tons of money. - we don't have graphics, so enjoy this. - [person] sike! - hello and welcome to mbsnd news. this is my co-anchor, chris, and we just wanted to
interview about the, you know, recent pandemic and see how you're doing. - right as the economy
started tanking, like, my job laid off a third of
the company in like one day. and it was out of nowhere! - wow. - we were about to close on
our first house as a family. everything in our future became
like immediately uncertain. - okay, that's a lot to take in. we are just trying to help people and make their lives a little better, so we'd like to give you $10,000 to make everything going on
a little bit easier for you. - what? - yeah. - for real? - yeah, actually our news
viewership has gone up, and we've been pretty fortunate, so we wanted to give back to some people. - no! dude, i never thought i'd be on mr. beast! - oh, wait, you know who we are? - oh my god! - ah, come on. - i mean, mbsnd, i'm sorry. - no, it's fine. - you know, maybe, times are hard, maybe you had to go pick up
a job at mbsnd, you know? - i guess we don't need the globe anymore. - thank you so much, guys. that's super, super helpful. like, for real, genuinely thank you. - yeah, we'll get you the
money after the interview. thanks for calling in. - oh my gosh. thank you so much, guys. - no problem. later. and now it's time for the next interview. how's it going? - fine and yourself? - good. so, we're wmsmb. could you tell us how, like, you know, the global pandemic
going on has affected you? - i never thought that the
whole world would just stop. i mean, i live in new
york city, so, you know, the beginning i kind of
was essential at my job, and at the end, i wasn't. - you've been laid off recently? - yeah. my last day of work was the 20th. - it hurts to hear all
this, so here at wsmb, we want to give you $10,000 to try to make your life
a little bit easier. - that's crazy. that's just insane. - oh, you're about to make me cry, okay. - trying to make a decision
whether to take a job, you might get sick. - hopefully that $10,000 makes it where you don't have to
pick, you know, a job that can potentially get you sick. - rent will be paid. maybe i can get a good
night's sleep tonight, and i can pay it forward
like you guys did to me. - i'm glad mbwsn has
been able to help you. awesome. - thank you. - no problem. i'll see you later, bye. - all right, jimmy, i think it's time for our next interview. (people boo) - all right, next one. he's waiting in the lobby. i'm gonna admit him and
start the interview. this is my co-anchor chris. and we just wanted to
interview about the, you know, recent pandemic and see how you're doing. - it was really scary for me. i got hit hard financially because like i was in the
hospital for four days and not working right now- - you actually got the virus? - i got the virus. - wow. - yeah. - so, you were furloughed from your job, you then got the virus, and now you're stuck with medical bills? - 15 grand is what i've heard so far. - interesting. - obviously like not working
and living in san francisco, like i'm like, where am i gonna find that? - yeah, yeah. hold up. one second, sir.
- some breaking news. - i gotta talk to my news anchor. - we gotta take care of this one. - okay. hey, so we here at
mbsndcgdby news would like to give you $15,000 to
cover your hospital bills. also, i'm not a real news anchor this is fake. - everything is fake here. - we just like giving away money. - you guys helping like this means a lot. thank you.
- no problem, man. - thank you guys so much. i really appreciate it. thank you.
- no problem. i hope you have a good day, man. - how do you get on with your day after great news like this? - i hope you guys have been
enjoying the news today. now, before we get into
our next interview, my anchor chandler has a cool stat. - there are more fake
flamingos in the world than there are real. - what a shame. all right, let's jump right
into the next interview. hello and welcome to wmbscndc news. how are you doing, sir? - i'm doing all right. as best as can be in these crazy times, but making the best of it, i suppose. - we've got some intel that
you've fallen on rough times. could you tell us a little bit about what's going on in your life? - went to school all year, was two weeks away from
my state board license, about to get a job, and
all of this happened. so, school debt, no money coming in, no possible job opportunity,
blew through all my savings. - it sounds like a lot has not
been going your way recently. and would you say if we were to, you know, give you $10,000 that would make your
life a little bit better? - well, yes, that would make
life a lot easier right now and put this huge smile on my face. i don't even know what to say. - we're actually not
even a real news station. i'm just an idiot. - i'm not though. - but the money is real though. - this is the most
amazing thing i've heard. - thank you for coming
out to this interview. i'm glad we could help you. - i mean, you guys,
really thank you so much. it's epic. it's life changing. - no problem. thank you for coming out. we appreciate you here at wnmbsend news. we are now college professors. our college blash university
is doing a comprehensive, in-depth study to see how the
pandemic is affecting people, and also giving away a bunch of money. (rock music) how has the recent pandemic affected you? - i am out of work. as soon as they heard about
it, we were shut down. so, i rely on mostly family. - how does that make
blash university feel? all right, so we here at blash university wanna help you out. how does $5,000 sound? do you think that would
help alleviate some stress from your life? $5,000. - that'd help a lot. i can pay a lot of bills. - we're glad we could help you. - i'm glad you could help me. i'm glad. - everybody's glad! everyone's glad! - it's a very emotional moment. - thank you for participating
in our youtube video. you had no idea what was going on. - i was totally shocked. - got him! - pranked! you been pranked! - so, here's the thing. this woman right here,
sarah, is chris's sister. and chris's sister helps
train other teachers. so, she teaches teachers
how to be teachers. and we got sarah's permission
to jump in one of her calls and give all the teachers
she's teaching today money. - hello, everybody. can you guys hear us? - hey. - what's it like for you guys with all this pandemic going on? - i still go in every day and try to make some
contact with students, but it's just been different. - we appreciate what you guys are doing, so we wanted to give
each one of you $1,000. - oh! - oh my god! - oh my gosh! - well, that was really all. we can let you guys go back
to whatever you're doing. just wanted to give you money. - thank you! - i need y'all to work
on your math behind you. (everyone laughs) - oh, they're making us do homework. i'm leaving. bye. (upbeat dance music) hello. everything going good? - it's going okay. - awesome. we're professors at blash university, and we're just doing a study real quick. so, chris, i'll let you take it away. - we just wanted to see how the recent events
have affected people. how have you been finding yourself with all these things going on? - my second job is closed. my full-time job hours
are like reduced back. so, i had to go online with school. - so, what, you were working two jobs and going to school at the same time? - yes. - we here at blash university
would like to give you $5,000 to help make things a
little bit easier on you. - are you serious? - we are very serious. - yes, ma'am. - well, i don't know what
to say except thank you. - you're very welcome.
- no problem, ma'am. - it will make things a lot easier on me, and i really do appreciate it. well, i'm kind of speechless. - well, thank you for participating. we'll take care of sending you the money, and i'll talk to you later. - thank you. - no problem. bye. that worked very well. we should be actual college professors. all right, next set. i now work for a real estate company. - i thought we were construction? - oh. i work for a construction company. and this construction company
is building lots of homes, so we're curious if people
are still gonna buy 'em. and we also want to give away money. hey, how's it going? - going very well. how are you? - good. sorry. i'm a ceo and founder of a
construction company, crall. we just build buildings and
stuff like that for real estate. do you have time for a quick survey? - yeah, i guess so. - have financially and
everything things been good or has the pandemic
affected you negatively? - the pandemic has definitely
affected us negatively. i got laid off for my job. supposedly- - you got laid off? - my whole team just kind of got gutted. - pick a number between one and 10. - nine. - do you think $9,000 will
help make your life better? - yeah, i think $9,000 would be amazing. - well then right after this call, i'm gonna wire you nine grand to try to make things a
little less stressful for you. - thank you. wait, who are you?
- yeah, actually, i'm not actually a real estate owner. i make dumb youtube videos. - i'm a little beside myself. but i just, thank you. thank you so much. - all right, have a good day, guys. - see you, guys. buh-bye. (power tools roar) - can you hear me? - oh no. - what? do you know who i am? - mr. beast. - oh, okay, that kind of blows my cover. since you know who we are, i might as well just cut to the chase. yeah, we're not actually
a construction company. we're actually just giving people money. oh wait, actually, we jumped ahead. i need to ask how's the
pandemic affected you? - right now, we are out on
leave due to the pandemic. so that affected me and my kids a lot. - what's 2 x 4? - eight. - is that right? eight it is. - 8,000, there we go. - oh my god. i'm speechless right now. i really am. 'cause like i follow you
guys on youtube and stuff, and i so love y'all. - thank you. we're gonna let you go. thank you for coming on. - all right. thank you. - okay, well thank gosh- - that was great. - we called her. in between that clip you
just watched and this one, me and chris went to law school and we are now practicing lawyers. - you look like you wanna sell me a cure to something i don't have. - even though we're lawyers
now, things are still the same. we're giving away money. hello, welcome to the call. how are you doing? - hey, i'm fine. how are you doing? - good. would you say you like money? - i love money. - perfect. all right, your settlement
has been figured out. $5,000. i know this is very confusing, but we're gonna send you $5,000 because we here at bailey bailey feel like no one should ever get laid off. - what? (laughs) what? listen, i have a 17 month old son that i take care of by myself. - really? - oh wow. - oh my gosh. my little king, he is gonna
be, he's gonna get everything. oh my god. - that's really the gist of it. we just wanted to give you some money. - jimmy and bailey from bailey and bailey. - yes, thank you. - i'm just gonna say they are
the best people in the world. - we need to take this next
client very serious, okay? very, very serious. - here, i'll put my files away. - thank you. my name is jimmy and this is my partner. his name's also jimmy. we work at j and j law firm. could you tell us, you
know, in the last few months how you've been affected financially? - well, i haven't worked
since march the 10th. - she's laid off. i think that's a wrong due settlement. i think she should
settle for around $5,000. - yep. - but instead of the company,
we should just pay it. okay. 'cause that's logical. okay. we wanna give you $5,000. - is this for real? - yeah, i think... - that's real. - okay. - like, jokes aside after this call, we're gonna wire you $5,000
to make your life better. - i haven't had a car since last august. i think i might be able to buy me a car. - really? - is this for real? - [person] it's real, it's real. - yeah, it is for real
for real, i promise. - thank y'all. - no problem. - handsome too. - thank you! - thank you. - me and chris are now chefs. pizza pasta. - what's our restaurant? mcdonald's? oh, that's actually a restaurant. welcome to slammy's! what's your order? oh, we're joining. we joined the call by hitting the desk? hello, can you hear us, sir? - yes, sir. - how's your day going? - it's going well. how about yourself? - has this pandemic
affected you financially? - yes, it has. - in what way? - besides food, a little bit
of food every now and again, paying my rent mainly the problem. - here, let me meet with my colleague. hold on. what do you think
slammy's should give him? - i think slammy's- (shelf crashes) (man laughs) slammy's should give him- - so, anyway, sir, i'll
cut right to the chase. we wanna give you $5,000 to
help make your life better. - oh man. that would be great, man. for real. - yeah. just i hope you have a good day, man. - i greatly appreciate you, brother. - i fired the other chef and
this is my new companion. - hello. - don't drop everything. - what'd you say? - in case you're wondering,
the mess is still on the floor. all right, this is kind of hard, so we're just gonna give you money. you want $5,000? - oh! stop. oh my god. are you joking? - we do wanna help you
and give you $5,000. - oh my god. right now i'm not receiving
any financial assistance for school. i'm without a job because
i was let go last august. - yeah, man. that's why we're doing this. did you think we were chefs? - yeah! i mean... well, actually when he ate the raw pasta, i was like, i don't know. (everyone laughs) - yeah. no, we're not actually chefs. all right, thanks for coming out, man. i'll catch you later. - see ya.
- thank you. - i thought you guys were chefs
until you ate the raw pasta. - yeah, i figured that would give it away. (man yells) - these next few people
think we're talking to them for our documentary we're
making on the pandemic. - but we're just gonna give 'em money. - this is my partner here, chandler. we're currently working on a documentary, and we're just interviewing
some people for it. what's one of the first
things you wanna ask him? - well, how has the pandemic affected you? - it's really stressful 'cause
i'm, you know, not working. - not working? did you get laid off? - i have stage four liver cirrhosis. - oh. - how about this? if we give you $10,000, do you think that would take
some stress out of your life? - yes. - all right, well then let's do it. we're not actually filming a documentary. i'm just a youtuber that gives away money. - this is a $2 shirt. (everyone laughs) - it'd just help me a lot 'cause i'm not able to go to work. i'd have to be by myself. it's just stressful. not to like have nobody in your corner. - i'm glad we were able to
give the money to you though 'cause it does seem like you need it. and thank you. thank you for coming on. oh gosh. that was a lot. we cut off our camera. his is still on. oh my gosh. he's bawling. that last clip was for
chandler's documentary. now what's your documentary about? - the man with two fedoras. - i'd watch. and now one fedora. - i'm gonna pick that up real quick. (chris farts) - oh. we're gonna join. i'm gonna let you take the lead. it's your documentary. - all right. hello. how's it going? - oh, wow. - hi. - what? - do you recognize us? - yeah, you're mr. beast. - do you know my name? - if i'm not mistaken, i think you chris? - oh. - okay. know his name? (everyone laughs) - chandler exists. everyone- - everyone started laughing
when chandler walks in. someone told me that you don't have a car and that you got laid off, right? - yeah. - we can't have that. - at the moment, we're
not currently mr. beast. we're actually a documentary crew. and chris is filming a documentary, and i don't feel like
going along with this bit. you know what? how about this? you want $10,000? actually, how about i
digress a little bit. (jazzy music) we've spent almost $200,000, but i want to give her more money. okay. how about $15,000? - whatever you offer is, i'm grateful for. i don't even have the words, actually. i can get my family
out of that infestation that we're living in, and i don't have to worry about
my wife dying in the vehicle that we have now. - thank you for coming on. - thank you for having me. - and there you have it, guys. we gave away a lot of money. thank you so much, honey,
for sponsoring this video. i appreciate it. if you're not already, please
hit that subscribe button. this is just the beginning
of what i want to do. over the next few years, i want to help thousands of people. and by subscribing you help me do that. - let's all do some good! - and there's a video right
here over chris's head, tap on it. it'd make me really happy. i'll see you tomorrow. [music] mr. beast 6,000 [music] [music] oh oh [music] [music] mr. beast 6,000 yeah you know his name [music] [music] he changed it once or twice
but i think it's here to stay [music] (explosion sounds)