- i have got not one, but
two of the same laptop here on the table. it all comes down to
this intel versus amd. comparing them in laptops has
become practically impossible over the last couple of years, because nobody makes an identical machine where only the cpu is different. excuse me, did i say nobody? the xmg core 15 claims to give absolutely equal
treatment to both sides. so then with everything else the same, who will be victorious? i don't know. all i know is that the teleprompter appears to have gained sentience and is commanding me to
tell you about our sponsor. instantly see your current
and past network activity, detect malware and block
badly behaving apps on your pc or android device with glasswire. use offer code linus to
get 25% off glasswire at the link down below. (upbeat music) with the notable exception
of the motherboard chipset and storage, don't
worry we'll get to that, every other part of these
two systems is exactly alike. same rtx 3060 gpu, same 62wh battery, and same 1920 by 1080,
165 hz, ips display. this gives us something
that is really rare for mobile devices, an opportunity to run a truly apples to apples comparison between team blue and team red cpus. and not just in terms of
cpu performance benchmarks, that would make my job easy, but it wouldn't give us the full picture. so on your right, intel inside, the brand spanking new core
i7-11800h weighing in at $2,188. and on your left, is amd's
mobile bread and butter, the ryzen 7 5800h. and right out of the gate, amd's 5800h is showing a
big part of what's made it such an enthusiast darling. even though it also has
eight cores and 16 threads and boosts just 0.2 gigahertz lower, it ends up priced almost $100
below its intel competition. but there is more here than meets the eye. take the exterior for instance. we have definitely got the same chassis and therefore the same port arrangement, but that doesn't mean the
i/o is exactly the same. this is a usb type-c port. this is a thunderbolt 4 port, a feature that ranks
pretty high on my list of nice-to-haves in a laptop, especially at this kind of price. now to be clear, usb-c can be used as a single-cable docking solution, running your display,
network and peripherals, not to mention power. but thunderbolt, just
plain does it better, with more bandwidth for
displays and storage, daisy chain support and
compatibility of course with pesky thunderbolt only peripherals. now thunderbolt is an intel technology. so while some desktop amd
motherboards do have it, courtesy of an onboard intel chip, it hasn't shown up in any amd
laptops as far as i'm aware. but that should change
with rumors indicating that thunderbolt
compatibility will show up in the form of usb4 ports
on ryzen 6000 series chips codename warhol, in 2022-ish. but enough about that,
let's talk performance. surprisingly, intel won the
vast majority of our tests. blender classroom run, sign anywhere between eight and 30 seconds of improvement on repeat tests. 3dmark reported a 4.1%
cpu score improvement. in time spy, it was more of the
same when it came to gaming. the 11800h showed a mild
lead across the board, in shadow of the tomb raider, rainbow 6: siege and f1 2020. all with improvements
of up to 15% over amd. but there's a catch, power. it's hard to say exactly which factors contribute the most here. but in spite of both cpus
having default tdps of 45w, our ryzen cpu settled in at around 60w, with our intel chip
self-reporting power consumption as high as 100w and settling in around 80w during extended workloads. wow, i mean on the desktop, 20w is like having some more rgb in your case. but on mobile, pcmark's
modern office battery test gave amd a 31% edge over intel at the same screen brightness. that's a big deal. ask any ev owner, how they'd
feel about 30% more range versus an extra five to 15% more power. they're gonna take the 30% every time. but intel's heavier power
draw comes from more than just turboing up their
cores so aggressively. the core i7-11800h has
support for pcie gen 4, which might feel a bit
overkill for a laptop, but it gives manufacturers an opportunity to nearly double the sequential
read and write performance of their system drive for
just the $60 difference between a samsung 980
pro and the 970 evo plus that xpg paired with amd's ryzen 7 5800h. now, sequential i/o isn't
the be-all and end-all. in pcmark's storage test,
the gap does begin to narrow, and we even found when we ran a test a little over a year ago
that no one on our team could tell the difference
between a low end and the high end ssd doing everyday things like loading games and editing 4k videos. so outside of some very specific workloads like frequent large data
ingests or big number crunching, i suspect most of you
won't be able to tell. but that pcie advantage
extends past the storage to the gpu as well. and while these rtx 3060's are capable of running pcie gen 4 with up to 16 lanes, which our intel system is fully utilizing thanks to its four additional pcie lanes. our amd system is connected
at just one quarter that speed with only eight gen 3 lanes. but then we did already talk about gaming performance, didn't we? and we know then that
amd's compromises here appear to have been wise ones. at least that's true on a
machine running an rtx 3060 rather than a 3070 or a 3080. boiling it all down then, the intel machine wins on performance and the amd machine wins on battery life. so what do you choose? well what? i can't tell you. i already gave you all the numbers and i explained why they're such, from here, it's your call. if you've got the extra benjamin to spend and you want balls to
the wall performance, the intel version of
the core 15 looks great. it's got thunderbolt, pcie gen 4 storage, however small the benefit might be, and you might have an easier
time sourcing it at the moment. but if battery life is what you're after, then i'd take the amd. if you're wondering why amd laptops tend to be a better value, i guess we finally got the answer. just make sure that you
take that extra cash and spend it over at lttstore.com. oh or with our sponsor. freshbooks is easy to
use accounting software designed specifically with you in mind, the small business owner. freshbooks has everything you
need to manage your books, invoicing, expenses,
time-tracking and more. and it's designed to be easy to use with built-in automation so
you spend less time invoicing, expensing and tracking projects, and more time doing projects
and growing your business. whether you're a trades
person, creative agency, or a youtuber, you can choose
a plan that's right for you. they have award-winning
toronto-based customer support if you need it. and you can try it out
for free for 30 days today with no credit card required
at freshbooks.com/linus. thanks for watching, bye
all, actually hold on. if you're looking for
another video to watch, check out the recent one
on how laptop manufacturers are slowing down your pc by
using higher density ram. it makes even more of a difference than amd versus intel,
which is a little awkward.