- today i am going to be taking a look at the worst buy at best buy. starting out with, did
you just drop that box? just like our sponsor
today, dropbox capture. i'm gonna capture the box now. a portion of this video is
sponsored by dropbox capture. when the picture is
worth a thousand words, it really makes you wish
you can speak in images, and with dropbox capture you can. dropbox capture lets you quickly and easily take screenshots, gifs, and videos of anything on your desktop. no figuring out where
to download an image, just capture and you're ready to share. video production is a
very visual industry, so having a way to chat visually
helps us not only save time but it also keeps communication
clear and digestible. forget writing up a long email, updating my team is as
easy as recording my screen and my webcam with capture,
and sending it in chat. this means everyone can watch or rewatch it whenever they want. using capture can bring your team together in a whole new way, and now you can get your message across clearly and quickly too
with dropbox capture. download it today for free by clicking on the link in
the description box below. thank you to dropbox for
sponsoring a portion of this video, and now onto... (imitates air whooshing) okay, so the first item is
going to be a spicy one. so the premise for this
video is really simple, we went on bestbbuy.com and purchased some of the best-selling items that they sell. and while some were
boring, like, guess what? the best-selling apple
laptop is a macbook. but looking at some other categories it got a whole lot more ridiculous. this, my friends, is the
hp envy desktop te01-3254. yeah, i know, the 3254
was my favorite too. all right, so first of all,
we've got some accessories. sure, they're gonna be very
high quality and fancy. they include duracell batteries, that's worth a solid $100 in. they're also wireless peripherals. you know what? actually, i'll give them some props. most of the time when you get,
like, a mouse and keyboard with a computer, it's like the most bare
bones basic thing ever, and while, i mean, this is still a very cheap
mouse, it's wireless, so props to hp. - [jared] you did the bare minimum, yay!
- yay! bare minimum.
- best selling. - look at this. they can tell that it's
made for old people cause it's like, "hey,
don't forget your dongle, don't forget your dongle,
it's really small, but it's still in here." i bet these get thrown
away like half the time and people call hp support, "my mouse and keyboard don't work." look, my normal beat are
gaming computers, right? so someone who's purchasing a desktop not for gaming is a little bit strange to
me because laptops exist, all-in-ones exist, tablets exist, smart tvs exist, typewriters
exist, pen and paper exists, stone tablets exist. - chalkboard?
- chalkboards exist. oh, good lordy. let's get the plastic off
here, and take a look at that. beautiful design, wow. - [jared] i mean, in all
honesty, it looks all right, it's not ugly, but it's
just, it's pleasant. - you know what it doesn't have though? - what?
- optical disc. (jared gasps) let me show you around back, okay? this, my friends, is the port selection- - what?
- of 2006. we have ourselves vga
and hdmi, that is it. displayport? never heard of it. dvi? hell no. just keep in mind, this
is not some old computer. look at this right here, do you see this? intel core i7, that's
a 12th-gen, wow, wow, that really wiggles. it's a 12th-gen sticker, okay? so even though this is a
brand-new computer, again, the best-selling desktop on
best buy at this very moment. okay. - [joanna] can i tell you secret? - uh-oh.
- yes, please do. - [joanna] i bought an
hp desktop from best buy. (jared gasps)
(glass crunches) - no cap? - [jared] are you a double agent, joanna? - [joanna] what? - are you're a best buyer?
- are you a best buyer? - [joanna] no. - inside we've got, well,
it almost fell backward. wow, that's empty. first of all, it's incredibly unbalanced 'cause the only thing that's heavy in it is the power supply on the bottom. there's nothing in here. wow! theoretically, you could
put a graphics card there, however, with this power supply, all i see are a couple of sata connectors. so the only kind of graphics card you could put in here is a low-power card that does not need external
power, which i will tell you is about the most basic graphics card you can get your hands on. now, i've also noticed something else, and this is the part that
actually is gonna bother me. what you'll see is a
single dimm of memory. - [jared] a single? - it's only one stick,
which means it's running at half the speed that
it realistically should. - [jared] which is gonna make your already bad integrated
graphics even worse. - what i'm struggling
with is to understand where my money went. what is the msrp on this system? - so the msrp is $970, but, but we got it on sale for only $800. (playful music) - okay. $100 motherboard, another
$100 for the ram and ssd, $30 for the power
supply, $20 for the case, that's still what? $300 less? this is bad, like, this is very bad. cs:go is about the most
friendly modern game that you could play. now, if you really wanted to
get into a computer like this, you would get something with, oh, i don't know, a graphics card, but because we don't have one,
and we have terrible memory, and terrible bandwidth, i
play cs:go on a butt cheek. - but, excuse me? - whoa.
- run that by me again. (both laughing) - a left butt cheek. oh, i'm at 30 frames per
second. (imitates vomiting) - dude.
(austin imitates vomiting) - 1080p?
- yeah. - [jared] i think i could draw frames faster than this pc can help put 'em. - i didn't even know this was possible. look how jittery it is. oh, it just crashed, okay. (jared laughing) ooga-booga, booga.
(playful music) - i'm gonna.
- bleurgh. it's the crash bandicoot sound! - austin just went-
- ooga-booga. - [jared] primal for a second there. - can we think of anything positive to say about this computer? - [jared] it looks okay, it did turn on. (upbeat music) - i'd rather a 10th gen ipad. oh, that one actually got me in the gut. all right, so, okay, so
we're cheating on this one. when we looked up the
best-selling laptops on best buy, the first one we saw was the chromebook that we had purchased the
last time we did a video like this from best buy, so
we already have this one, we have a little bit
of a headstart on that, but the best-selling windows laptop was not really what i expected. (dull music) - [jared] very graceful. (paper rustling) - ow! this is the asus- - [jared] it's just in another box. - e410m. so this is exceedingly
cheap, cheaper, in fact, than the chrome os equivalent, and it is running a full
copy of windows 11 in s mode, which we can turn off
in about three seconds. - [jared] look, a 14-inch laptop. - no, no, no, it's nice. you gotta know where the enter key is. actually, wait, hang on,
let's do the first test. if you really wanna know if your laptop is cheap bargain basement,
does the keyboard flex? (dull music) - oh.
- it does. - [jared] not as bad as i thought. - i would say it's-
- that's pretty- - moderate flex. all right, so with
samsung we've got, yeah, also moderate flex. okay, that screen, so. (austin hums) - not terrible.
- is it ips? - it's, it's s. so we've got ourselves a
dual-core celeron processor. if you go to intel and say, "give me the cheapest cpu
you've ever made," they go, "here you go," and they give it to you and you give them 55 cents in return. we've also got ourselves a
whopping four gigabytes of ram, which interestingly-
- sheesh. - it says it's so-dimm
and there's one free slot on the inside. i actually kinda wanna open it up and see.
- wait. - i don't believe that.
- really? - i don't think-
- i don't think that's true at all. - i don't think so either. also, you know it's a
really cheap computer when your main hard drive
just shows up as sd. - do you have an ssd man? "yeah, well, i got an sd."
- yeah. (both laughing) jared, what's the regular
msrp on this device? - it'd be $250, but that's
not what we paid for it. - [austin] how much did
we pay for it, jared? - we paid $130 for this. - remind me again, how much
does a copy of windows 11 cost? - [jared] i believe
it's like 120 bucks, so. - so get a copy of windows
and the laptop for free. (upbeat music) that was nice and lightweight. i'm gonna drop it anyway though. this next item is what happens,
we do a very simple search for the best-selling tellular. - [jared] tellular? - cellular telephone,
not tellular celephone. so this is the boost
mobile samsung galaxy a03s. now, this has a 6.5-inch
display, triple cameras, only one of which are
real, 32 gigs of storage and three gigs of ram, with
that two gigahertz processor. - [jared] this is one of
the phones of all time. - this is very cheap. now, you might be picking up
on a little bit of a trend here that a lot of the
best-selling items on best buy are cheap ones. how much is this boost mobile
prepaid cellular telephone? - [jared] this bad boy was only 60 bucks. (upbeat music) good deal. - let's hope that we can activate this without signing up for boost mobile. if i had to create a new
phone number, i'm tweeting it, and just taking random
calls in this video. (jared laughs)
so. inside we've got. wow, that's a phone. oh, okay. so you know, you think $60 smartphone, the expectations are low and usually there are massive compromises, terrible battery life,
horrible cameras, this though, while plastic, i will say
it doesn't feel great, but- - [jared] it looks pretty good. - from this angle, can you not
tell that i didn't spend $800 on the latest samsung
galaxy s24 ultra note 5g? oh, there's even a headphone jack. - [jared] dude, this
is the best phone ever. - a little bit of a chin, but it's fine. also, i like how it's got even, like, the little rounded corners,
which is a premium feature, but the rounded corners are almost like cutting into the battery percentage. like, i feel like they
could have padded it out a little bit more. - [jared] so i just looked this phone up on samsung's website, not having
it be through boost mobile, this would've been a $160 phone. - so that sounds a lot more like it, that this is like $160
phone, because again, you talk about those super
cheap unlocked phones, which mind you, this is not unlocked, this is attached to boost mobile. also, this is the best-selling
phone on best buy. ah, ah, ah, that looks
pretty promising to me, it's gonna load eventually right? hey, all right. look, being able to open
and close your notifications with the fingerprint sensor
by swiping is so cool. i mean, this phone's big, unless you've got like a 6.5-inch thumb. - [joanna] i cannot
hold this with one hand, it's too big.
- you know. - then this is super helpful,
but if shaq's watching this, (upbeat music) you probably not using
a boost mobile phone. (jared laughing) let's take a look at roboraptor. you see how choppy the feed is? when you're in portrait mode
it clearly is very much a lot for the phone to deal with,
but the actual still itself, if it eventually loads,
that's actually not bad. to be fair, definitely
didn't focus on his face, but let's see the regular photo. (upbeat music) that's actually fine, this is not bad. - [jared] you should put
that picture on your twitter and see what people think. - i don't think that, they're gonna have
different thoughts on that. (jared laughs) it's not good, but it's not bad. okay, you could have
given me some warning. all right, let's see what we got here. pause. sit down for a moment, shall we? what do you think the number
one best-selling headphones on best buy are? seriously, think about for a second. - [jared] airpods. - airpods are a good guess. maybe some galaxy buds,
maybe some bose qc35s? well, if that's your guess,
you're wrong, jeremy. they're beats by dre, studio 3 wireless.
- what? so wait, hold on. on all these other products,
people had no budget, they had to go for the cheapest laptop, they had to go for the cheapest phone. - yeah.
- but then they go for the headphones and they
decide, "you know what? i don't need dinner this month. i'm just gonna buy these." - "change the way you hear sounds." okay. - [jared] does that mean
like, not with my ears? - here's the thing, new beats are good, like the beats studio buds,
lowkey some of my favorite relatively affordable in-ear buds. audio quality aside, which
of course is very important, damn, that colorway is clean. whoo! so you've got the very
nicely-padded headband. you've got what admittedly is a little bit of that sort of matte plastic, but you've got some glossy
elements like the studio and the headband expander,
but these still feel premium, these still feel like
high-quality headphones, right? and let's be clear, these
are still expensive. while the msrp, i think is still at, what? 300 or 350 bucks? - [jared] 350. - so they're a lot of
money, but at best buy, they're 225 bucks. is that worth it? hard to say, but it's a whole lot closer to what i think they should
be after five, six years. so we've got our controls,
which are still physical, that's fine. oh wait, we've got a little
pamphlet, we can try it free. it'll be the real test if
this is still beats music instead of apple music. it's apple music. okay, it's not-
- okay. - [austin] that old, it's not that old. - [joanna] sticker!
- that's a big sticker. - [joanna] thank you. - all right, let me sync these up. (chill music) oh, that does feel good, those are comfy. these look phenomenal. i know that headphones should be judged based on their features and
their sound quality, but... (chill music) so let's start out by rocking dr. dre. now i'm gonna ask this and
i'm gonna get really upset if i got the wrong answer. does anyone in the room have
a favorite dr. dre song? - [jared] who's dr. dre? (joanna and jared laughs) - [joanna] i was gonna say that, jared. (joanna and jared laugh) my favorite dr. dre song is "beats." (chill music) (jared laughs) (joanna laughs) - alexa, play "beats" by dr. dre. - y'all can both leave, i can
finish the video from here. the beats by dre sound. bass! highs! mids. (no sound)