this video has been years in the making actually. 
i'm quite excited about this video, it's a problem   that i've actually got a part in as well. i've been 
given permission to give you an exclusive look at   this new solution - it's a secret! it's not a secret, 
i'm going to tell you all. so in this box we have   our new solution to this old problem; and building 
up to this i think i should start with what the   problem is of course. imagine four friends and 
they're going to play a game and they want to   decide who goes first, second, third and fourth - fine. 
so to do that they decide to roll dice. they roll   one each and whoever has the highest number goes 
first, second highest number goes second; you get   the idea. the only problem with that is two players 
might roll the same number - oh no, a draw. so what   are they going to do? they could roll again. well 
potentially that could go on forever. is there a   set of four dice, so each player can have one, roll 
them together; there are no drawers and all equally   likely to be first, second, third, and fourth. 
that's the question. well that does exist.  they're called go first dice; they were invented by 
eric harshbarger and robert ford about 10 years ago.  i've got these actually, so here they are. so these 
are four 12-sided dice. they use the numbers from 1   to 48 so there's no repeats. so you're not going 
to get a draw, that's easily solved. and they've   been designed so that you're equally likely 
to be first, second, third, and fourth - very nice.   as a bonus though, it also works for subsets. 
so if you had three friends they could pick   any three of these dice and that would do 
the same thing; they would be equally likely   to be first, second, and third; or if you have two 
friends they could pick any two of these dice   and you'd be equally likely to be first and second - really nice. 
so the question then was, what's it   gonna look like for five players? can we make a 
set of five dice: no draws and you're equally   likely to be first, second, third, fourth and fifth? 
that's the question we've got a new solution for   but before i show you that new solution i want to 
show you the best answers we've had so far - just to   build up to this. the first one i want to show you 
is one of my own. okay, i get to do this, it's my video, i   can do that, right yeah okay. i don't know what you 
imagine it's going to look like but this is it.  so this is a set of 5 60 sided dice. they use 
the numbers 1 to 300 and, just like   they're supposed to, you roll them you're equally 
likely to be first, second, third, fourth and fifth.   works for the subsets as well. so that's kind of 
nice so there you go.
- (brady: i can just see the numbers)   you see, i should have painted in the numbers - 
couldn't be bothered, couldn't be bothered. so   this is my solution. i came up with this years 
ago, not to be confused by the way with things like   non-transitive dice or other things you may have 
seen before. you know, it sounds similar but it is   a different problem, this is a different solution 
to that. so this is kind of nice. i might tell   you a little bit about how we came across it. so 
i did this with an internet friend of mine, brian   pollock, and well we did a computer search but 
just- to do a computer search would take a long   time. if you search through every possible set of 
five dice it's just a huge number, we're talking   like many many many googols of possibilities, 
right. too many to search through. so we did a   clever search. so what we did is we looked 
for dice with a particular nice mathematical   structure and that allowed us to reject the wrong 
answers really quickly. so we sort of narrowed our   search down to these particularly nice kind of 
dice. so you could reject the wrong ones easily,   then the ones you can't reject we checked. that's 
what we did, and that's what we found: we found the   60-sided dice. we knew that the answer- they're all 
the same size like these are - we knew that the dice   were going to be 30-sided or a multiple of 30. we 
didn't find 30-sided dice but we did find these  60-sided dice. so that's nice, i was proud of this!
this was my solution to it; we can do better though.   because this solution, you're equally likely to be 
first, second, third, fourth and fifth; what about if   we make every order of the players equally likely? 
so a, b, c, d, e is just as likely as e, d, c, b, a.   that might sound like the same thing - that's 
what i thought. when i said, is every order   equally likely or every place equally likely? 
- (as in who gets the highest, second highest-) yeah i thought that- isn't that 
the same? so no. having every order is actually   a stronger sense of fairness. this set that 
i discovered, every place is equally likely,   you're equally likely to be first, second, 
third, fourth and fifth. every order is not   equally likely with this. in fact they're a, b, 
c, d, e is less likely than e, d, c, b, a with this set.  (quick question. is every- what about with these ones?)
- every order is equally likely. it's   something we appreciated slightly after the 
fact. oh, but should we make it every   order equally likely? yeah so that's a downfall 
of those. i'm- like i said i, you know, we came up   with this idea, i'm quite proud of it, but can 
we make an even better set? every order equally   likely, that would be nice. now the original 
inventors of the go first dice - that's eric and   robert - they came up with a solution. put my set 
to one side, i'll show you eric's solution. got it- d'you want me- you see i've got it in this box.
- (ok, it's a special box. ) yeah, special box for it. well, they look like this. 
- (ooh)
- yeah, that's the right reaction   (you answered my next question actually, do the 
dice all have the same number of sides?)
- so if you   relax that condition here is a set with all weird 
sides. so they're not all the same number of sides   but this is every order equally likely. we've got 
a 20-sided dice here; we've got a 36 sided dice;   here we've got two 48s and we've got a 54-sided 
dice. so this is what we've got. they're all kind   of weird values but every order equally likely. 
and true for the subsets! i might be worth telling   you how these were invented. the idea was you start 
with a set that you already know is permutation fair. that's what we call it when all the orders 
are equally likely. so let's start with a set of   three dice. they're going to be 6-sided dice 
and they're going to have these numbers on them:    so let's say a here is going to be 2, 5, 7, 12, 14 
and 17. b, i'll do b, is 3, 4, 8, 11, 13,'. and we'll do c which is 1, 6, 9, 10, 15 and 16. there we go, 6-sided   dice; they're using numbers 1 to', every 
order is equally likely. what we can do though   is turn that set of 3 into a set of 4. so 
this is this is how you do it. what we're going to   do first, we're going to double the size of these 
dice, right. so we're going to repeat it: 2, 5,  7, 12, 14, 17 - i'm trying to fit 
them into my piece of paper - do that again and for   c, okay 1, 6, 9, 10, 15 and 16. and so that we 
don't repeat the numbers, so we can tell them apart,   i'm going to add 100 to the first copy and 200 
to the second copy so that now they're different   numbers. look i've got gaps now; there are numbers 
less than 100 that i could use. i've got a gap   here between 118 and 201 - i could use that gap - and 
i've got a gap here larger than 218. so we're going   to create a new one called d. we're going to put 
values in those gaps and we can calculate how many   values to put in those gaps and keep the set of 
dice still permutation fair. in this example if you   put one number in the first gap; could be anything 
i want, call it 50. i could put 50 here, i could   put four numbers in that second gap - let's call 
it 150 and then 151, 152, 153, there you go. and then   one number in that last gap - 250? that will do it. 
that's now a set of four dice which will still be   permutation fair. we can shrink those numbers down 
as well so that it's all consecutive. but now the   new one i've introduced is now 6-sided; there's 
no guarantee that that new die will have the same   number of sides as the other dice that you started 
with and that's why they start to have weird sizes.   there are things you can do; like you can make the 
dice like have the lowest common multiple of that-  the dice start to get quite large though, the size of these 
dice do get quite large. it doesn't have to be two   copies either; sometimes you get a nicer set of 
dice if you do like three copies and then fill   those gaps. or like five copies or ten copies - 
sometimes you just get a nicer result by doing   that instead. now those two sets of dice i've just 
shown you were the best answers we had up to about   two months ago. and, brady, i was going to make this 
video about two months ago and that was going to   be the end of the video. just before i came and did 
that video we were contacted; our little team of   dice inventors were contacted by a mathematician 
called michael purcell and he said i've got a new   solution for you. now i'm going to show you that, 
that's it, that's what i've been building up to!   (oh, that's the box!) 
- that's the box over here. so what 
is it going to be? this is michael's solution - you ready? (i'm trembling with anticipation)
- right, here we go - this is it. this is a set of five   120-sided dice; all the same number of sides, which 
is nice, and every order is equally likely as well.  so i think this is one of my favorite sets so 
far. his ideas were completely different to the   ideas that we were using. he started with a set 
of five 12-sided dice, but they weren't completely   permutation fair. any subset of four dice did work, 
it was only partially there. what he did next is he   made 10 copies of that, kind of like this method 
here. so he made those 12-sided dice into  120-sided dice. that doesn't completely solve it, 
they're still not permutation fair. what he   did next is in the copies he started to swap 
the rows over. so in the second copy he swapped   the first row and the third row; in the third copy 
he swapped the first row and the fifth row. so he   started doing some permutations as we call them 
on the rows within those copies that he made. by   doing that it kind of balanced out all the sort of 
biases, all the little problems, to sort of cancel   themselves out. and the result was, this set of five 
120-sided dice where every order is equally likely.   the important thing about that is we kind of knew 
you could do something like that; there was a team   - actually they've got a youtube channel as well so 
i'm going to give them a little bit of a shout out.   the polylog youtube channel; they realised that if 
you did every permutation on the rows that would   balance out all the biases. they worked that out. 
but if you do every permutation these are going   to be huge dice. what michael has done is he found 
that you could do it with just 10 permutations, not   just using every permutation. and there are some 
open questions, because he did it with a computer.   is there some mathematical reason or mathematical 
way to pick the permutations that balance out all   those biases? we're not sure about that, 
we're still thinking about that. you know,   is is there a way to pick the initial seed 
set of dice - that initial set of dice before   we made copies? is there a good way to pick that? 
is there a good way to pick the permutations? they're still problems we're working on but 
yes at least with a computer search we can   use those ideas and we can get this set of five 120-sided dice.
(two questions)
- yeah i'm ready  (all right. first question is, i'm not questioning 
your motivation for doing this, i think it's) (really cool. but are go first dice like necessary? 
is there a demand in the gaming community for go)   (first dice?)
- no, no. so you can solve this problem 
in simpler ways. so if i wanted to arrange five   people in some order i would just have five 
cards with 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 written on   it and then you shuffle that up and they can pick 
a card. i mean that's that's that's not the point.   there are easier solutions to this. another easy 
solution by the way to this is you could just have   one die with 120 sides on it. each side would have 
an order of the five people and then roll that. you   could do it with one die; that's not the point 
either, that's not fun. the fun is five players   have one die each, and they all roll them, they 
all have something to do, and then it orders them.   that's the fun part of it. 
- (and the other obvious 
question that springs to mind is what about 6 dice?)   now 6, yes. so eric who originally invented 
this and is really like our boss in all of this;  he has a website where he's collating all like the 
best results. so for 6 shall i just- shall i just   look at what the answer for 6 is? ohh, no i'll save 
that thought actually. can i go back a step? dun dun duh - cool. there is a second punch line to this video 
because michael contacted us with this new   result and we were so excited by it. our little 
team of dice experts got working on it; well   one in particular bram cohen, and he started 
to mix and match our methods. so he started to   use a bit of michael's method, a bit of eric's 
method, started to match them together, just   to see if he could find a better solution - and 
this is his solution. so i've got another set!   this is a set of four 36-sided dice and one 
20-sided dice. so it's almost like they're all   the same size, they're very similar sizes like oh, you're 
almost all the same size. also the dice are just   so much smaller than than any of these solutions 
we've got so far. so if you were just looking at   adding up all the sides and seeing that- you 
know, trying to minimise that number, then in   that case by that measure this is the best set we've found.
- (so that's more efficient but that one)  (there's more perfect because they're all the same) 
- yeah. some of us like to minimise the total number   of sides and some of us like to have them all 
the same - because it makes it more like a toy i   feel, but also minimise that number as well. so 
for 6 players the best results we've got now   using actually bram's method, the best 
result we've got a set which is a 20-sided die   and then five 360-sided dice. 
- (that's quite asymmetrical)
- yeah yeah yeah. well it's-   and that's because of how bram's method worked. so 
he actually used michael's method to make these   set of dice, and then by induction he created one 
extra dice. which is why this one has a different   size to all the other dice. so that's why 
this is the 20-sided dice there because   it's fitting in the gaps. so this is why it's 
a mix and match of of these two methods here.  can we do better? can we find a smaller set of 
dice? personally i want to find a set of 5  30-sided dice. theoretically we can make a set of five 
30-sided dice but they might not exist. if they   don't exist can we make a set of five 60-sided 
dice? or maybe this set of dice here, maybe this is   kind of minimum in its way - or is it? again these 
are questions we still don't know the answers to. this episode's been supported by our 
regular and superb sponsor, brilliant, makers of these world-class 
interactive lessons and courses.  i was of course completely unsurprised to learn 
they have a lot of stuff involving dice; including   some of this which really dives into the sort of 
stuff you've just been watching - dice competing   against each other and stuff like that. do make 
sure you check it out, people. whether it's for   you or the learner in your life, i can't think 
of a better way to expand your horizons than a   subscription to brilliant. they've just got so 
much quality material; and new stuff's being   added all the time, well designed, thoughtful and 
sometimes quite funny. a bit of personality to it.  learn more at brilliant.org/numberphile. they've 
got a free 30-day trial which is amazing and   using the url on screen, that's going to get you 
a 20% discount off their premium offering. there   are links and details in the description 
under the video. 