- is that a bird, a plane or is it a scam? (upbeat retro music) wow, that was really close
to hitting the camera. okay so, what do we have here? the first thing i see is
a used kinect for $39.99 that definitely no one
bothered to, like, wipe off. the kinect originally
came out with the xbox 360 and it really was the alternative to something like the wii motion control. while, i personally like the kinect, it was, without a doubt,
a massive failure. but that's certainly not all. so i see a refurbished xbox. pre-owned and refurbished
consoles from gamestop have been very hit or miss in the past. i can't even put the game in it now. - oh.
- oh. - now this is certified pre-owned which means that it's cleaned,
tested and guaranteed. the number one tell on whether
or not it's scam or not, fail, fail, fail. - [jared] you have no idea if that means it's good in there or not. - does that sound like
it's well packed, jared? this is cleaned? this is cleaned? there's a just layer of dust can you see this? just a layer. again, i'm just going to refer you to, cleaned. - [jared] why would you do that? now i'm gonna get lung cancer. - this is one thing i'm not gonna sniff. - [jared] yeah. (austin coughs) - well, if the xbox one
s that's disgusting town isn't enough for you, we also have a playstation 4. and apparently a whole
bunch of games for it. - [jared] all of that goes for the low, low price of 300 buckaroos. - so for the same price
as the ps4 used to cost, you now get 4 used games. wait, before we actually open it up, let's do the test. ah.
- oh, that sounds better. - no, i'm feeling better about his one. inside we have actual packing and a blue controller which, i will say, not clean but compared to the other
one is downright near mint. look at this packaging though. look, you've actually got foam. you got cardboard. how lovely is that? now that being said it
is scuffed quite a lot. considering this is a matte finish, someone has definitely,
like, scrubbed this with like a brillo pad or something or, like, a magic eraser but, you know, it should be okay. so, does our disgusting xbox one s and mildly okay ps4 work? only one way to find out. plug it in and... very good sign. fan spinning up. why did i think that was a good idea? so at least we can confirm that the xbox seems to function and i actually wanna get
into a game and whatnot. let's plug the ps4 in and
see if this one works. okay, definitely scared me for a second. all right, so both consoles
appear at first glance to actually work. line cable... okay oh, a 480 wheel. is this the thrustmaster?
- yes. - okay, i've seen this wheel before. if you're trying to get into
any kind of racing wheel, this is the most popular one. ever since something
like the xbox 360 days. this immediately looks a lot better, it's an 8/10 scale replica. i don't know why they just
don't make it full size but okay. and you have real size
pedal set, no clutch. that being said though, jared, if i know this wheel correctly, it's like what? couple hundred bucks? - [jared] it's a 130 bucks. - $130 for a wheel and pedals, not bad. got a little of work to do with the-- - ah, coming through, excuse me. just gotta bring the package in. you got-- - i mean, that's a racing seat, right? - well, open it up. - so i actually built one of these once a couple years ago for broke vs pro but this is the lite version. - [jared] so this was 300 bucks, no premium.
- so, basically what we're looking at here is about $400 for a wheel, pedals, seat and full simulator set up. and another $300 for the
ps4 to actually run it on. racing ain't cheap. (upbeat rock music) so after an arduous journey, our next level racing seat and our thrustmaster wheel and
pedals have been assembled. now unlike a higher end wheel which
needs like a power adapter and everything, this literally just needs one cable to the pedals and one usb, which i'm gonna not step on. oh wait. okay, so controller connected but then... oh, do you really just
need a controller as well? oh, i need the controller. - [jared] you got this, i believe in you. - okay, now do i have manual shifting? i hope i do. i don't have manual
shifting, that's unfortunate. but the wheel does work. i will say no force
feedback is a little weird but if you're used to just
playing on the controller, it's a big step up. i will also say why i
will not give any props to that xbox. the ps4 is functioning completely fine. having said, this is not a scam. well, hopefully none of those are fragile. all right, we've got a eliminator
mod pack adapter for ps4. we have a dualshock 4
back button attachment. i actually never tried that and all the way down here, we have a strike pack mod pack. so these are all the same thing, jared. i'm not sure if you're familiar. - [jared] no, no, no. they're all, you know, very different. - let's start with this 'cause this is actually
something that came out, actually toward the end
of the ps4 life cycle. i think this actually came out after the ps5 had already been announced. and if i remember right, even this has like the
buttons and the screen. it's really cheap, right? - [jared] it's only 10 bucks. - 10.
- brand new. - that's what we call a bargain. so it's just got the paddles, it's got a little screen and it plugs into the
bottom of my controller. and it immediately turns on. okay, good sign. oh yeah, so i can have... so now i'm using my back
buttons to swap weapons now. so that is l1, r1. okay, this is not a scam. this is actually legitimately
useful to the game. so i've got that for 10 bucks compared to the what? the strike pack? so this looks like it's almost the
exact same thing except it adds paddles with
on the fly re-mapping. this was designed for call of duty: modern warfare remastered though it may be
effective in future games. jitter requires certain game exploits. these exploits may be
patched rendering this mod ineffective in the future. (police sirens blaring) jared, is this a hacking tool? am i gonna get banned
on xbox live with it? i mean, psn on this? - [jared] it can't be. it specifically says it's mod free. - it says a mod pack. it literally is called a mod pack. it is me, the scam buster. english is my second language. scams are my business. super mario kart? so i know that gamestop for a little while sold retro games. they don't do that anymore. - [jared] but that's not the product. - okay. so this is the hyperkin supaboy. now i remember seeing this and, i think it was at e3 or ces, a long time ago. - [jared] it's not a bad
price at only a 100 bucks. - you know, that price
actually doesn't fill me with confidence. i bet for 100 dollars, this is gonna suck. oh, it's actually a little
smaller than i thought. oh wow, that's thick. - [jared] oh my god. - so to be fair, the size of a super
nintendo cartridge means it does kind of have to be pretty thick. so you've got av out, so not hdmi but fair enough, i guess. usb-c for charging, you've got a pal or an ntsc switch. you also have headphone,
volume and brightness and it switches between
4:3 or 16:9. and then underneath these rubber panels, you actually have your controller slots. got a wrist strap. boy, if you're dropping this thing, you gotta watch out. you might, like, leave
a dent in your hole. - [jared] what? - a hole in your floor, a dent in your floor. i would say it's not comfortable. like, it looks cool but, like, my hands are, like, digging into, like, the wide part of the plastic and it's so like back heavy. when you're playing like
a retro console like this and especially when you're
trying to play something which is designed for crt, proper scaling, i think, is important. 4:3 looks better but whatever the screen
resolution of the screen is, looks less than ideal i'd say. like, it looks very, like, kind of grainy. that being said, the most important thing is the responsiveness
and the actual, like, accuracy of the emulation. at first glace, seems fine. i'm not having any
problems with, like, lag and a lot of the low-end emulators for, you know, super nintendo and especially when you get
to, like, playstation stuff, can be very choppy and very laggy. for me, i would rather not have the cartridge slot on a handheld because this is huge. and if you want to use this with a tv, you're stuck using the rca which is just not great, right. if this had, like, something like an hdmi, i think it would be really nice. people dock it, play your games. it's not a scam. this is not scam. this thing works. it's not outrageously expensive but i can't say that i'm a big fan of it. then it comes to the nintendo switch. this is a console which i
would say is pretty popular. it's been very successful and it's something that a lot of legitimately great accessories are for. like this little genki dock-- - [jared] oh. - i wasn't even done talking jared. so what is this?
- we could redo that. - no, no, it's fine jared. it's too late.
- no, i want to redo that. - it's too late, it's too late. we're already in the middle of it. there are a lot of
controllers for the switch, mostly because the pro controller that the switch you can buy with, it's like 80 bucks or 70 bucks. it is very expensive and
it's just, kind of, okay. so, that is one area
where i think it makes a lot of sense to actually buy a third party pro
controller for your switch. the only concern i have with this, is that this seems like it's
slightly, eh, it's okay. i bet this is going to get a little, like, gross looking after time. you do have your, sort of,
back paddles right here. this seems totally
reasonable for 28 bucks. - [jared] the only thing sus
here is this next product. - i caught it, did you see that?
- wow. - that's really impressive.
- thank you, appreciate it. better graphics, better
pixels, better gameplay. game console graphics processor. now i know for a fact that this is listed on gamestop's website as a graphics card. so, for context, this
is what a graphics card should look like. it is a graphics card for a pc. now, the switch does not
have a graphics card, it has a gpu which is
built in to the switch but you can't give
yourself more performance by plugging a graphics
card into your switch which is what this sounds like. what this actually does, is it is a 4k or full hd upscaler. unplug the switch. i'm going to plug it into the back of my brand new graphics card. so then i'm going to plug it back in and then, theoretically,
i can plug this into my tv and it will give me power and it does. so we got a little blue light right now. so is the switch working right now? the switch screen is on which means that it's not connected right. let me plug and unplug
and see if that helps. - [jared] it should have gone immediately. - [austin] it should immediately go. getting some scammy tingles. and now, it's time for me to troubleshoot, to really see if this is a scam. a little more on this
side, yeah thanks, jared. to find out, is it a scam. - [joanna] it's not enough. - it's not enough, jared. could you put your back into it, please? - [joanna] oh, jared? - it's okay give him five.
- no sleeping on the job. - oh, was i supposed to read the works only in this one direction part? - [joanna] yeah, yeah. did you miss that? you see that?
- so you know what? here's the thing. reading comprehension is a scam, okay. the less you read the better in life. you know what? to be fair, now that i look at it, it does have a big source arrow on it. this is with the upscale on and this is with the upscale off. now obviously watching a youtube video it's gonna be a little hard to see but what i can immediately say is that, like, all of these little,
like, pixelated little, like literal, actual pixels
that you can see around, like, the computer for example, are completely smoothed out. a lot of pixel art style games are probably better
running in a standard mode but you've got something like a 3d game, like breath of the wild
or pokemon or something, i can see this actually being pretty good. and as much as this screams scam, i do think they're marketing
is way too aggressive. this is not a graphics card. this is not going to
revolutionize your console but for some games, it
does make a difference.