- hey guys, this is austin. the iphone xs is one of the
best phones you can buy today, which makes sense as
it's also one of the most expensive flagships ever. as opposed to doing our
normal is it worth it video this year, instead
i think it's a lot more useful if we answer
the most important question with any new gadget launch. who should buy the iphone xs? one big reason to pick
up the xs or the xs max is if you're already
in the apple ecosystem and you're looking for an upgrade, especially if you're
coming from an older device such as an iphone 6 or 6s,
this is a big step forward. take the camera, for example. put it side by side
with the 6s and you will notice a big difference. now part of this is because there are several generations between the phones, which means that things
like color science, dynamic range, and the video quality has all been improved. but you're also getting
additional functionality, including the second telephoto option, which is especially useful
for the portrait mode, which is actually pretty good on the xs. it's also hard to overlook the difference in screen size. gone are the days of huge
bezels on top and bottom. instead, the new iphone
is basically all screen up front, including the notch. oh yes, my friends, the notch. look, personally i don't mind the notch. not only is it on basically every flagship phone out there, but at
this point, while sure, you might think it looks ugly, almost anyone is going to be able to get used to it very quickly. that notch houses one of
the biggest differences between the xs and previous generations. face id. put simply, instead of
having a home button with touch id, instead you use your face to unlock the x and the xs. and, generally speaking,
it works pretty well. certainly not perfect, but as far as i'm concerned, not bad. there are also some software
updates from legacy phones, and some of which are pretty substantial. one of my favorites is the
gesture-based navigation, since you don't have a
home button to be able to exit apps, as well as swipe in and out of multi-tasking and whatnot. this makes it a lot faster to be able to just swipe on the bottom of the screen. performance is also a consideration. every year, the iphone does get faster. and while the a-series processors have been really impressive, especially
the last couple years, when you pit the xs compared to the x, and especially going
back to the 7 and the 6s, you're gonna notice a pretty
substantial difference. sure, the camera is a
solid update this year, but it is certainly not worth dropping another $1000 to get. same thing goes for the performance. yes, on paper the xs is faster, but realistically, there's almost no real world difference. more than any phone i've used in years, the iphone x has held up so well over a full year of use. the battery life still lasts all day long. it still feels fast, the camera is great. if you have one and you're not, like, rocking a broken screen or something, it is almost impossible
for me to recommend it over the xs. no, no, i didn't actually mean that. that's the wrong, i flipped that. the x still feels every bit as fast as it did last year, and even more so now that ios 12 is out. speaking of, let's
actually talk about ios 12 for a second. as opposed to most updates, which make your iphone feel slower, 12 legitimately does make even older iphones feel a lot faster. i'll be real. if my job wasn't to
review the latest tech, i would not have updated
my iphone x to a xs. it's good, but the upgrades
are just not worth it. on the other hand, one
reason why you might wanna pick up the xs is longevity. it's really impressive that apple is still supporting the iphone 5s after five years. and honestly, the software
support on the ios side, it's one of the major
advantages over android in my opinion. if the xs gets that same level of support, it is a serious selling point. sure, $1000 for a phone is expensive. but when you break that up over three, four, or even five years of usable, well, use, that's pretty cool. there's also the fact that
the updated screen design is the new standard going forward, which is a good sign for app support. long story short. if you want to pick up a new iphone today, the xs has a good shot of being able to last quite a while. on the other hand, not
everyone wants to spend $1000 on a new phone. sure, the xs is great,
but there's a lot of other things you could do with $1000. like pay rent, or buy a
lot of subway sandwiches. - [ken] what? - [matt] $5.00 footlong. - that's a lot of $5.00 footlongs. that's--
- they're not doing that. - 200 of them.
- they're not, they're not doing that anymore.
- no. - wait, they're not? - [matt] that's not a thing anymore. - not only can you pick up a much cheaper android phone such as the pocophone f1 for a lot less than half the price, but there are also other ios options that can do a decent job
of not costing $1000, such as the iphone 7,
which is now $450. sure, it's probably not
going to last as long, but you're still getting a solid camera, really reasonable performance, and it costs less than
half the price of the xs. one point in favor of the xs, specifically with the
max, is if you're really into media consumption. which, odds are if you're
watching this video right now, you probably are. based on early numbers,
it seems like the xs max is heavily outselling the standard xs, and that's really only for one reason, the fact that it's got
that bigger display. besides that, there's
actually really no difference between the xs and the xs max. the 6.5 inch oled display is about as good as it gets for a smartphone. not only is the brightness, and the color, and especially the contrast, terrific, but it does support all the fancy new display technologies, including hdr10 and dolby vision. the improved speakers
also make a difference. not only are they louder,
but they also have better stereo separation. and that, combined with the screen, makes the xs max an excellent
media consumption device. honestly, the main reason to not buy the iphone xs is really
simple, the iphone xr. take everything that's good about the xs, add a wide variety of colors, remove the telephoto camera while still keeping the main camera intact, and replace the oled
display for an ips panel, and boom, you've got
yourself an iphone xr, which just so happens to
be a full $250 cheaper. that's a big difference
compared to past generations. previously, apple would
knock about $100 off of the entry-level iphone. but this year, you're
getting the xr with almost the exact same spec but
with a major price cut. something that's easy to
miss is that while the xr does have a lower pixel density, which is on-par with the iphone 8, but the actual screen size itself is right in-between the xs and the xs max. the xr won't be out until late october, so i can't give it my full
recommendation just yet. but on paper, it really does
look like the full package. you just aren't missing
much compared to the xs. and that is my recommendation. if you really want the best and have the budget for it, by all
means pick up the xs. it's a great phone. for almost everyone else though, i really feel like waiting
for the xr is worth it.