i want to show you two sequences that if you're only given a few terms they are really hard. they both appeared in eureka, in this magazine, in their puzzle section. the first one i can do without cheating and it goes like this: 3, 4, 6, 8, nine, ten - no - eleven, no, twelve? yeah 12. thirteen? fourteen - i've already given
you more than the eureka puzzle gave you. so what's the formula? there's a very simple formula but you really won't guess it. it's really annoying, you can see why i hate these puzzles, if they only give you a few terms. let's subtract 1 and we get 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13 - the primes. so this sequence: it goes up by one, then it goes up by two, and two, and four oh and then two and so on - it looks like it's something to do with adding twos but in fact subtract one and it becomes transparent. this is the kind of thing where even if you say 'yes, all right, there are mil- but there are a million ways to extend the sequence to explain the sequence' but when you see the the answer, the the- this is a good puzzle in the sense that it's puzzling and yet when you see the answer you say all right yes i admit that's what the answer has to be. (brady: so these were the
the primes plus 1 basically?) yes that's all. (okay, i'm going to come up with my own) (sequence and just make it the primes) (plus 8 or something and-) yeah you could certainly, just as hard - harder, because it probably isn't in the oeis. there's a related one and now i can do it without cheating, it goes like this: 5, 8, 12 ,18, 24. now you look at that and you say, well look, we've got 6 times 2, 6 times 3, 6 times 4, and then there are a couple of experimental errors at the beginning. basically this is going to be multiples of six right? wrong! you want a chance
to think about it? (all right, back in the room)
- back in the room here's the answer. let me change these commas to pluses: 2 plus 3, 3 plus 5, 5 plus 7, 7 plus 11 - it's the sums of two consecutive primes. isn't that annoying? and yet when you see it it's clearly the right answer. so when you're given one of these puzzles on a quiz or an iq test or a job interview or something the first thing you should do is excuse yourself. go to the bathroom and look it up in the oeis. do you want to learn more about primes, or maybe just numbers in general? well today's episode sponsor is brilliant: a resource jam packed with quizzes, puzzles, and courses that are not only fun but designed to make you that little bit smarter. i particularly enjoy doing these daily challenges, they always make me smile. but the courses like these, they're the main meals on brilliant. you're always going to find something appealing across a full range of mathematics and science. if you're already using brilliant you can also consider maybe giving it as a gift. to learn more, give it a try, go to brilliant.org/numberphile - the address there on the screen. using that /numberphile has the bonus effect of giving you a 20% discount on a premium subscription. ...16 steps. it must- it gets stuck, it cannot move. every square of- every one of the eight squares around it that it could move to, it's already been to. so it die- the sequence dies.