hello everyone and welcome in this video we're going to be answering the question which you are all i'm sure wondering, how fast could a new tesla roadster accelerate to 60 miles per hour...on the planet mars and why are we wondering this? well, spacex sent out a rocket into space, they sent a tesla roadster on -- it kind of towards mars they aren't gonna hit mars but let's say they try it again with a new tesla roadster and actually landed it on mars well suddenly now we all want to know how fast can that roadster accelerate 60 miles per hour on mars? so in order to figure this out first of all we need to know the frictional coefficient of the tires on the tesla roadster so how are we going to figure this out? well the first thing we're going to do we know that average acceleration is equal to the change in velocity over the change in time and so this vehicle can accelerate to 60 miles per hour, so we're going to say that's our change in velocity 60 miles per hour otherwise worded as 88 feet per second we're just gonna change the units there but that's 60 miles per hour and tesla says it can do this in just 1.9 seconds so 1.9 seconds there now this will give us units and feet per second squared. we're gonna divide it by gravity which is 32.2 feet per second squared so we can get this kind of unitless it's going to be in g's and so this will give us 1.44 g's and now we're all happy because we're talking about g's and not some obscure american unit that nobody likes to talk about...feet per second squared 1.44 g's. this is equal to the tires frictional coefficient wait, what how does that happen? okay... well, we know that the maximum force a vehicle can accelerate with is equal to the frictional coefficient multiplied by the normal force over the driven tires. okay. we also know that force is equal to mass times acceleration so we can set both of these equal to each other so mu n equals m a. now normal force, we can split that up and say that's equal to mass times gravity equals mass times acceleration we can cut out the mass there now we have frictional coefficient equals acceleration divided by g. and that's exactly what we just did here, a divided by g and that gives us our frictional coefficient 1.44 g's is our frictional coefficient, and there's how we proved that okay, well now we're going to mars. and on mars, what is gravity? so on earth, gravity is 32.2 feet per second squared. on mars it's about 1/3, 12.18 feet per second squared. okay. so now we're trying to figure out how fast can this thing accelerate to 60 miles per hour? so acceleration equals change in velocity over the change in time. the change in time is what we're trying to figure out so change in velocity 88 feet per second just like previously we're trying to hit 60 miles per hour. we don't know what time is and what is acceleration? well acceleration is equal to the frictional coefficient multiplied by gravity so our frictional coefficient is 1.44, gravity is 12.18 feet per second squared, and we can solve for time. time equals five seconds. oh no, cars are pretty slow on mars. that's unfortunate for when you know if we ever do get there and start driving around the cars are going to be a little bit slower and the simple way of doing this you can just take earth's gravity mars gravity and multiply by the zero to 60 time and that will give you this five seconds but this shows you exactly how that's done so now all of you have that burning question answered for you how fast could a test the roadster accelerate 60 miles per hour on mars? it would only take five seconds thank you all for watching if you have any questions or comments feel free to leave them below.