- this might look like
a knockoff alienware. well, because it is, but according to the specs on the box, like amd processor, this might just be able to
beat them at their own game. but will it? i honestly don't know, but i do know it's time to
segue to our sponsor: glasswire. are you lagging it while gaming? use glasswire and see what apps are wasting your bandwidth
and causing your games to lag. get 25% off with offer code
linus at the link below. (bright electronic music) what we have here today is the eluktronics prometheus xvi, and it's a very powerful little laptop. eight-core amd processor,
rtx 3080, the 16-gig version. it's quite a beast, and it's $1,300 less than this alienware right here. now judging by the box, i actually thought it was
more of a striking comparison to the alienware. in person, it's more gray than white, like i thought it was here. let's just open it up here. so in here we have some dbrand skins. now, eluktronics says that
this is so that you can choose if you want to have just
the complete stealth look, or if you want to have
their logo on the back. well, i think it's
almost smarter than that. it's the kind of thing where, when you're asking for
someone to build you a laptop, like your eluktronics,
or even dell or lenovo, you aren't building that laptop yourself. you're going to a bunch of
suppliers and being, like, in the case of this one, let's say cherry is making the keyboard and someone else, like maybe pixart is making this trackpad, and so on and so forth. but it's really smart
to just call up dbrand so that they can put your
logo on something like this. this costs, what, like 20 bucks, instead of having to order, like, i don't know, 500, a
hundred thousand laptops, just so you can have your logo on here. that's one of the things that was funny. i was talking to the ceo and he said he really likes this laptop. the insides are based off
of, i believe it's an hp. and then the factory reskins it. and it came out kind of
looking like an alienware. eluktronics actually aren't
super stoked about that. they want it to be more
individual to them, but you need to just make so many laptops for it to be your own. so instead they just have
exclusive rights to this chassis in the us. in person, it does look
less like the alienware than i was expecting though. it's kind of like the
legion and the alienware just kind of like, got it on. and this is what popped out. me and brandon together think we got it started in the right spot. we're gonna find out here. dbrand skinning laptops is just so smart. it's such an easy way
to make it look cool. which one did you take, brandon? little black with the logo, or rgb? - [brandon] gimme rgb all day. rgb all day? hell yeah. now when you get this laptop, the first thing you want to do, of course, like install your drivers, but then you want to install
the ryzen controller software. it's kind of janky. like, look at the splash screen, brandon. beautiful. (chuckles) and the whole program's kind of janky. this is not a first-party program, but at the same time, everything that you need to
play around with your computer is right here. so like, cpu temperature limit, boom. now it's 85 degrees. turn that off? want to change the tdp? it's right there. all of the stuff that you
would really want to do is just available for you. now, it may not look the best. like, this is a very
simple little program, but compared to
alienware's command center, which, like, it's fancy,
it looks really good, but it doesn't work the best. all right, enough screwing around, though. got the dad hat, lttstore.com, and we are ready to do some testing. cinebench, let's just go straight for it. now, if i'm honest, i don't think that this is as well cooled as the alienware or the lenovo, but it does have an amd processor, which means that there is a good chance that it's going to win this. huh. well, this isn't good. this lenovo got a 5362, alienware got 5394. that's within margin of error. makes sense, they have the exact same cpu. but the eluktronics has 4906. that's not ideal. i actually thought it would win right now. but let's see if we can make it win. one second. okay, so with a score of 5394 to beat, we're hopping into the ryzen controller and we're just going to do it
the dirty way at first, just every... oh. you can set the temperature
limit to 105 degrees. i don't know about that. let's go for 99. (chuckles) but besides that one, we're just going to take all the sliders all the way to the right, and just see what happens. with our super-easy
overclock, we got 5132, which is a decent improvement, 200 points, but we still need another 200
in order to beat this guy. and i don't know if we're going to get it. yeah, we ran it again with those additional sliders
all the way over to the right. and the score is about the same: 5100. so we're not able to beat
either of these guys. now, we did do a bit more
research while it was running, and it looks like this is about
as fast as the 5900hx gets. so i think that really speaks more so to how well alienware and lenovo and their vapor chamber coolers have cooled these i7 chips, as opposed to this thing being slow. i'm kind of surprised though. i was not expecting for intel's 10 nm to be able to beat amd. so although it wasn't quite the cinebench result i was hoping for, it is still impressive because
we didn't hit 90 degrees. and that's very promising for
the cooling system and games. what i am impressed with, though, is just the overall build
quality of this thing. so the chassis is stamped aluminum, and it just feels really good. i have to say, it's not the same as the magnesium chassis of the alienware. this thing is insanely well-built, but it's very much in a
similar league as the lenovo, now, as for the keyboard, (typing sounds) i am personally a fan. so i feel like that it
has a tiny bit more travel than the legion has. this is in many ways a good keyboard, but i find it's not... like, the key stability
just isn't quite perfect. and there isn't enough travel. and this one right here is pretty good. this one's maybe like an a-minus, we can call this one a. the alienware has the cherry switches that are just the best, but that's kind of in its own league. one thing i was planning
on complaining about is the trackpad. you can look at it, the size is fine. it's basically the same as
the legion and the alienware, or actually, a tiny bit
bigger than the alienware. and i just don't really have
any complaints about it. it's the kind of trackpad that
you can just use every day and be generally happy about it. but enough fooling around. it's a well-built machine, but no one cares if it doesn't game well. it's a gaming laptop,
so let's do some games. before we get into the
hard gaming benchmarking, i want to just find out the subjective. how does it feel to game on this laptop? we're here in valheim. and first thing, this screen is so good. i've said it before, but quad hd on laptops is
just, it's the sweet spot, especially 16x10. it's kind of weird in games. in games, i feel like a lot of them are made for a much wider
screen, as opposed to taller. but you get used to it pretty fast and it is quite nice, extremely responsive, no problems at all. we're now in forza horizon 4, and this is probably our best display benchmark that we have. it's also a pretty good
benchmark benchmark. we're getting, like, what, 120 fps. you're not going to be complaining
about that in this game. now, this really shows you how much just color and
brightness you have. like, you don't really get to see it cause you're watching on
whatever monitor you have. but to my eyeballs, i would quite enjoy just not doing work for the rest of the day and playing forza on this thing. now we can get into the
actual hardcore game testing. this guy right here. so we're connecting to an
external display for two reasons. first of all, all of the testing for the
alienware x17 was done at 4k. and this is not a 4k panel. also, inside of this,
there is a mux switch, which can give you something like a five to 10% performance uplift. but unfortunately it isn't yet enabled in the bios of this thing. so, you know, connected
to an external display, you get that performance uplift, and it's more representative
of what you can expect when you actually have
hands on with this thing, and it's been updated. based off of my numbers, i don't think this is going to be as fast as the alienware or the lenovo. hot damn. so i was expecting this to
be something like 90 fps, but we ended up getting 103. so that's two more than the lenovo legion. and i honestly don't know how it did it. i'm very impressed, you little guy. okay, yeah, we ran it again
and it did drop a bit. so we now have 96 fps, and the reason is just simply that our cpu, it's overheating. now we do still have it in everything-to-the-right go-insane mode. so i don't really blame it, but i do think that this is a much more reasonable kind of mid-nineties, maybe 90 fps, is what you're actually
going to be getting. wonder if having this thing, not on a desk pad will
help improve performance. it does seem like we have
intakes on the bottom that might be slightly choked
by something like this. now we're testing in
rise of the tomb raider. anything above about 45 is a win. that's what the m17 did. anything above 66, which
is what the x17 did, is an ultra win. i'm guessing we'll be
somewhere in the middle there. damn, again i'm quite impressed. so 57 fps, that's one less
than the lenovo legion, which is well within our
margin of error of these tests. final benchmark is dirt. we're looking for 100 fps. we're currently getting
90, so not a bad start. now, the fans, they're a
bit loud in this thing. if i'm honest, they're not super annoying. like, it doesn't have a whole
lot of high-pitched whine, but it certainly doesn't
compare to this guy. the x17 is very quiet while gaming, for a gaming laptop, of course. but you're not paying alienware money, so dirt was a tiny bit
of a disappointment: 92 fps instead of the
100 i was hoping for. but at the same time, going into this, these are the results that
i was expecting before it kind of blew me away
with the other ones. let's take it apart and see how they're doing such a good job. disassembly, i believe, is pretty easy. so you've just got a couple of screws. the ones in the front are shorter
than the ones in the back. if you put a long boy in the front, you're going to have a real bad time. but fortunately, a lot of the problems
that you will run into have already been covered by them. so they hired bob of all trades to go and just make disassembly videos. so, you know, things like
these little fan grills are kind of easy to screw up, and now i'm going to note what's on the go and not break them. exactly like this, i'm slightly concerned i'm going to break a couple of clips. so i'm going to rewatch that video. i was afraid that if
i just pulled on this, i was going to break it. now i can go in here. that didn't feel great, but she's all good. awesome. thank you, bob. that is quite the cooling system. i do have to say it's
clearly well-designed. so we have one heat pipe that
runs under here, sneaky like, to get your vrms cooled on what is presumably the gpu over here. we have these massive radiators
on the back and the sides. one thing i was a bit curious about was that a lot of eluktronics
laptops, you know, they come with liquid metal as an option, whereas this guy does not. it turns out there's a good reason. they tested it, and there
weren't massive performance gains by putting liquid metal
on the cpu and gpu. what they did find though, is that if you upgrade the
thermal pads on the vrm to k5-pro paste, you are able to push them harder and see a real performance gain. so they're considering
having that as an option, although liquid metal, it's nice that they tested it, and aren't going to just charge you extra for something that won't
have a performance benefit. as for upgradability, we've
got our ram right here. oh yes. so, this makes so much sense. the ram that we have here, eight gigabytes 1rx8, this
is the faster old ram. so, we did a video on
this a little while ago, where new higher-density modules will give you less performance. this is almost definitely
why i was surprised at the performance of this laptop, and why it had the extra,
like, 10% performance that i wasn't expecting it to have. it's because someone like
eluktronics can go in, ask for these faster ram modules, and they can get them. someone like lenovo or alienware, aren't able to do that because they have to order
such large quantities that they've probably run out
of this fast stuff by now. yeah, super easy upgradability. two sodimm slots, two ssd slots, got a wi-fi card. one thing that isn't so
incredible is the battery. so we get 64 watt-hours
compared to the legion's 80. now, they do make up for
it by having an amd cpu. it's just more efficient
than the intel variants. but if they had the larger battery, they'd be able to beat
instead of just match the battery life of their competitors. well, although at the start of this video, i thought this was going to be
a brutal alienware knockoff, it turns out it's much closer
to a legion 7 knockoff, and quite a good one at that. now, if we take a look at the legion that comes with the rtx 3080,
you're looking at $2,759. now this guy right here, if you get the 16-gigabyte 3080 version, you're looking at $2,500. so, do you really want
to go for eluktronics for $200 less, and a smaller capacity ssd? i'm not entirely sure. but what is really compelling is that there's an 8 gb rtx3080 version of this guy right here for $2,300. and i think that makes a lot more sense. there's no eight-gig version
of the 3080 in this guy, and you probably just
don't need 16 gb of vram. you might as well just
save yourself the $200, in which case eluktronics is
quite a compelling little buy. so yeah, overall, i'm pretty
impressed with this guy. the cooling's good. the screen is great. keyboard's good. i'm actually kind of
surprised about that one. only real complaint is that i wish the battery was
a little bit bigger. good job guys. i like it. - the drop sennheiser hd 6xx headphones are one of drop's all-time bestsellers, with over 90,000 units sold. they haven't changed the
driver or sound structure compared to the hd 650s, so it delivers a beautiful,
balanced mid range and natural sounding bass. and its open-back design allows
auditorium-like acoustics for accurate sound reproduction. it's got a detachable six-foot cable instead of a 10-foot cable. this change was based
on community feedback. and has a 1/8-inch plug with a 1/4-inch adapter
included in the box. so don't wait, get yours today at the link in the video description. - so thanks for watching, guys. let me know what you
thought of this video. it's kind of a different
style than we normally do. more of like experiencing a laptop, as opposed to reviewing it. if you're looking for something else, the alienware x17 video, you probably want to
go and watch that now. so, have a good day. bye.