(soft music) - this is absolutely outrageous. who in their right-freaking-mind would pay this much for a 65 inch tv when they could have literally 10 of them for the same money, and then
be happy with their purchase? a lot of people apparently.
everyone from the media to enthusiasts on avs
forum is absolutely raving about the sony a90j, a tv that costs 3,800 us dollars for the 65 inch model. i thought we were past this,
i thought tvs were cheap now. well, apparently not,
if you wanna build one with lg's second generation oled panel and sony's unparalleled image processing. boy does this thing ever
have a lot to live up to, like our sponsor esr. esr's new halolock system gives you convenient and stylish ways to wirelessly charge
your phone using magsafe. learn more and enter to win an iphone 12 by watching until the end of the video or clicking the link in
the video description. (bright upbeat techno) what does all that money get you? at first glance the super
thin bezels of the a90j will please all but the
strictest minimalist wannabes, at just 4.1 centimeters thick, it looks great mounted to the wall or if a cabinet is more your
style, you get two options elevated for soundbar integration or full van damme style for
a nearly bottomless look, there's three usb ports
here and here, ethernet, optical audio, and a headphone jack alongside an array of
hdmi ports, four in total. but this is where we hit
our first speed bump. only two of the a90j's hdmis are full-fat 48 gigabit per second hdmi 2.1, which is a real shame since samsung and lg are offering 2.1 support across every port in this price here, but it
makes sense at a hardware level. the reason lg and samsung
are ahead of the pack is because they bit the bullet
and developed their own soc's to process hdmi 2.1.
sony on the other hand uses a media tech soc,
a cost savings for sure but one that has chained
them to the features or lack thereof, of a
third-party solution. of course, no one buys a tv
to look at the back anyway. and from the front, it's
easy to forget that, whatever i was just talking
about. i mean, look at it. it is hard to believe how far we've come in quality, price and performance
in just a few short years. i mean, inky blacks as always, but the star of the
show here is, the stars. lg boasted that their
second-generation panels were so named for their huge leap forward in brightness, then proceeded to tell us to
expect about a 20% uplift, which to me, sounded more
like an incremental step than worthy of being called second gen. then i got to experience
them side by side and yeah, between the more precise color
and increased brightness, it looks a lot better, but awkward thing, lg has their own product based
on this panel coming soon, the g1, and for a lower cost.
why would anyone buy a sony? sony's image processing
for starters. historically, it's been the best in the biz, and the a90j is no slouch
either, with some tweaks. you got your cinemotion, your motionflow, your random and digital
noise reduction and, and why not some smooth gradation? i mean i'm grateful all these dials exist, but reality creation
sony? reality creation. why not just call it
ai-assisted sharpening, cause it's actually really good. so it can be a little exhausting, trial and erroring all
the dials, but thankfully once you've got it just
right, it looks amazing and your settings will be saved and synced to their respective inputs. dolby atmos also makes an appearance here alongside hdr 10 and
dolby vision dynamic hdr, so these are more top tier
features that are expected from a flagship oled, but
there's one glaring omission. the lack of variable refresh rate support is something i just can't skip over. it is promised, apparently by winter 2021, but the thing is, sony, this
same company is now six months behind microsoft on variable refresh rate for the playstation five,
which is a great reminder that when you buy something,
you have to evaluate and purchase what it offers
now, and not go based on what's promised. so what
that means is that lgc10 or c1 lineup is still the go-to for gaming on the big screen. once that update drops,
however, sony will have a very strong contender here,
cause here's the thing. sony has another trick up their sleeves. lg's second gen oled tvs
actually lack a key feature that sony has built into the a90j: an aluminum sheet lamination layer. that is why 20% brighter looked by so much cause it's way more than 20%. thanks to that extra cooling. sony is actually driving this thing as high as 1300 nits, bloody hell! that is right up there
with last generation quantum dot led backlit
tvs, and in practice, it makes for a fantastic viewing
experience with 4k content, especially in hdr. of
course, a lot of our content isn't hdr, or even high
res, for that matter. but the a90j shows its strengths here too. bad upscaling can be
worse than no upscaling. and most upscaling,
honestly speaking, is bad, but sony's algorithms put in work here and really do make a big difference. the bravia xr processor is able to take what little information it's given and dynamically make local
adjustments to contrast and gamma to bring pop back to
parts of the image on screen. and the addition of the
low cinemotion setting, it was previously only
an on and off toggle in the last generation x900h, means that you now have
a nice middle ground for low bitrate stream
content enhancement. essentially what it does is
tries to detect what sort of processing has already
been done to your image then tries to "un" it. so cranking it up to high
for highly compressed content like netflix has a profound
effect on the experience. now, something that's
plagued oleds in the past has been the lack of near
blacks in very dark content, dubbed as near-black chrominance
overshoot by hdtv test. in our viewing of a handful
of dark scenes though, we didn't see any blocking or
a lack of depth to the darks. so thumbs up from me there. moving along to the other half
of the tv experience though, how does it sound? great. actually really great. the surprisingly crisp sound profile comes thanks to dual primary actuators
that are mounted directly behind the screen at 10 watts per channel along with dual 20 watt
subwoofers for the low end and as a result of the
well-designed audio package i would actually think twice
before outfitting this tv with a soundbar, i mean, a soundbar along with a dedicated subwoofer to bring some low end grunt back? yeah. there's no replacement for displacement, but even so i can comfortably
say that the sound here is best in class for being integrated. as they say, though,
good hardware is nothing without good software,
and included in the a90j's tool quiver is a super
easy automatic room eq. it leverages the microphone
in the remote to measure and adjust the speaker output
based on how your space reacts to sound and your seating location. now i can actually show you this. yay! (digital blipping) pew pew. and that's it. there is no manual eq,
thumbs down for that, but we focus the auto configurator to a couple of different
seating positions, and i can verify it
does make a difference. if you're more of an av receiver person, you can also use the tv as
a center channel over earc to add to a full speaker setup,
but if your other speakers don't match sony's acoustic timbre, you might be better off getting something that's a closer match
anyway. sony's new remote is a breath of fresh air.
everyone else is trying to do simpler, simpler, simpler, and this just, has all the features, which personally i prefer. it's larger, longer. there's four shortcuts to the usual bunch of content providers. and the aluminized top is
a nice touch, pun intended. it's sturdy and comfortable to
use with nice grippy backing, and this might seem minor,
but having the remote light up when it's jostled, so nice when you're looking for it in the dark. all other tv makers, please take note. and, as for the software on the tv, google tv is a really nice improvement over the more dated android tv and the experience is much better for it. finding content across
all your services is easy with the built-in cross platform search and menu navigation is snappy with all the google integrated services that you could wish for. there's also apple airplay 2
if that's your preferred flavor of device, but hey, maybe
you don't like flavor at all. you can just take a clean refreshing sip of flavorless water. lttstore.com. so where does that leave us? we've got a highly featured, very smart tv that kills it in the image
processing department and uses the latest generation of oled panel seemingly to its utmost, along with a nice sound
package and a sleek aesthetic. would i buy one? no, not for what i would
want to use it for, anyway. variable refresh rate makes
a huge difference for gaming and i suspect that matters
to a lot of you as well. but if you're more of a
passive content consumer and you play the occasional game and you can stomach the
price, the a90j is a great tv as it is now. and when
vrr gets added to the mix, it will be scary tempting, just like i'm tempted to tell
you about our sponsor, esr. esr wants to help make
charging your iphone 12 easier. whether you're in the
car or at the office, esr has the product for you. the halolock car charger uses
magsafe to keep your phone firmly attached to your dash
while wirelessly charging it. and you can easily rotate
your phone between landscape and portrait modes without
removing the clamp. it charges at up to seven and a half watts for faster charging. and
if you're at your desk, the halolock kickstand
charger uses magsafe to keep your phone propped
up for convenient viewing. the halolock system supports any of the new iphone 12
series phones caseless, or you can use any iphone with
a magsafe-compatible case. esr is also giving three
lucky viewers a chance to win a brand new iphone 12
and four esr halolock products. so get your halolock chargers today and enter to win an
iphone 12 using the links down in the video description. if you guys liked this
video, maybe take a look at the other side of the
coin with our video using lgc10 48-inch as a monitor.
that thing is so awesome.