- whoa, that's bright! 1600 nits peak brightness,
ladies and gentlemen. (angels chanting) when we looked at the pa32ucx from asus a little over a year
ago, we were impressed. 4k, 60 hertz, mini led backlight, color accurate hdr with
1200 nits peak brightness. it was a force to be reckoned with, and it was the answer to
apple's pro display xdr, but for pc users. but then, asus being asus said, "asus, hold my beer," and now we've got this, their next generation
proart display, the pa32ucg, or as we've been calling it,
the god king of monitors. but, what exactly did they improve, and is it worth shelling
out thousands of dollars for an upgrade? do gamers even care about
a display this expensive? will i ever get to my sponsor segue? today's video is brought to you by nzxt. nzxt wants to make building
a custom pc easier. with their build system,
just set a budget, see how the computer will
perform with your favorite games and build takes care of the rest. watch till the end of
the video to learn more, or click the link down below. (upbeat music) for starters, the ucg,
as we'll be calling it, has got the world's first 4k
120 hertz mini led ips panel. it features a jaw-dropping
peak brightness of 1600 nits, which is good enough for
vesa hdr 1400 certification. so, none of the fake-o hdr 2000 like we saw from samsung's
odyssey g9 a few months back. it's also got improved io, featuring hdmi 2.1 support,
as well as displayport 1.4 with display stream compression. now that improvement on peak brightness and
refresh rate is huge. it's only 4k rather than 6k
like the pro display xdr, but hey, at least it comes
with a stand, am i right? need to show the latest
edits to your boss? bam! whoa, god, that's heavy,
but it's easy peasy. and, can a mac do this? oh, that's bright! well, yes, yes it can. but hey, now pc enthusiasts
and professionals can do that too. and, this is really cool. if at the end of the day, you don't feel like leaving
the office quite yet, and you decide to play some games, it is otherworldly. 4k 120 looks and feels amazing even with the 5 millisecond
rated pixel response times, that is as long as you're
not hyper competitive. because naturally, everything
that makes this thing look beautiful for creatives who need it makes it beautiful in games. another thing that's missing compared to a real gaming monitor is obviously higher refresh rates. i mean, something like the odyssey g9 runs at 240 hertz rather
than just 120 hertz. that extra little bit of smoothness, we have basically proven
already in separate videos that it does make a difference. so for competitive gamers,
yeah, this probably ain't it. i am really, really impressed at the pixel response times though, considering this is not a gaming display. it is a full array local
dimming backlit display, so even though they're mini leds and you've got 1,152 zones, it is still possible to find situations where you're gonna get halos around light objects on dark backgrounds. the thing is that when playing
games or watching movies, it's pretty hard to notice. anyone see any haloing? 4k 120 hertz with perfect color, it's nice, really nice, but i don't know if i need it. which takes us to the next big question. who does? well, in our first review of the pa32ucx, our main contenders were
editors working in hdr who needed perfectly color accurate images and games developers. now this time around, it's
similar to the ucx offering with support for hdr 10,
hlg, and dolby vision, and it delivers highly accurate color across a wide variety of color spaces. we're talking 100% srgb, 97% dci-p3, and 99.5% of adobe rgb. but with the ucg, having the frame rate improvements
and updated connectors, well, the needle starts to sway a bit closer to game development, especially now that
the latest gen consoles and graphics cards have made
hdmi 2.1 the new standard. that is a bit of a problem though, since to take advantage of this thing, you will need hdmi 2.1, which you will only find
on nvidia's 30 series and amd's 6000 series gpus. sorry, folks, displayport 1.4 just isn't going to cut it anymore. we were able to get as far as 100 hertz, 10 bit rgb
using hbr3 transmission, but we needed chroma
subsampling to reach rates like 120 or 144 hertz. and the visual anomalies that
accompany chroma subsampling, well, they can be okay for playing games, but they're not ideal for creating them. maybe once displayport 2.0
comes out and more than doubles the maximum bandwidth of dp,
it'll end up back on top. but for now, hdmi 2.1
at 48 gigabit per second is definitely the way to go if you want 120 hertz, 12 bit
rgb with full dynamic range. still though, the addition
of display stream compression on dp 1.4 is a bonus over
the previous ucx model. of course, to test it
then, we had to pair it with the only card we
trust in our editing den, the rtx 3090. we powered it up and ran our
calman colorchecker software using the included x-rite i1display pro. a $260 value, by the way, which should at least help
justify the cost of this thing. right? then we ran tests to compare against the included
factory calibration report. what we found was that our
display wasn't perfect. however, its inaccuracies were almost all below the level that the
human eye can even discern with an average delta e of less than 2. and while ours was a little bit off, we're confident that with a
little bit of calibration, this monitor will be an extremely accurate part of your workflow. and besides, professionals should be periodically calibrating their displays because they can actually drift out of calibration over time. and there are some other things that would be owners should know. remember when everything started getting lighter and cheaper? well, not this guy. this is one hefty 32-inch monitor with a net weight of 14.6 kilos. that is just over 32
pounds in freedom units or basically one pound
per inch of screen space. and... oh my god, it is so heavy, and it costs a whopping 5,000 us dollars. it also takes up a huge
amount of desk space thanks to just how thick the housing is because of the cooling
solution that asus built in to reach that impressive
sustained 1000 nits brightness. a monitor arm will help alleviate that, but this thing ain't no
m1 imac, that's for sure. the other major caveat is
that asus has another monitor that is mostly either on
par or actually better than the pa32ucg for gamers: the pg32uqx. it's hailed as the world's first mini led gaming monitor by some, and it is $2,000 less than this one, and you get 4k 144 hertz, displayhdr 1400, 1400 nit peak brightness, and quantum-dot technology
for true 10 bit color depth. for anyone who wants to primarily game while maintaining pretty
dang good color accuracy for a little bit of work,
that's the better option. but, for anyone who wants that little bit of extra peak brightness and a much wider array of color spaces while creating hdr content, you're gonna have to stick with the ucg. so all hail, then, the
new god king of monitors. and all hail our sponsor nzxt. with nzxt's build system, getting a custom-built
pc is easier than ever. just set your budget, see how your pc will perform
in your favorite games, and build takes care of the rest. their recommendation engine
provides benchmark data for the expected performance of your build at both 1080p and 1440p, and their fps estimates are guaranteed to be accurate within 10%. you can customize and upgrade your build from various nzxt case options
and rgb lighting setups, and they feature transparent pricing with a flat $99 assembly fee so you can spend less time
worrying about upgrade costs and more time gaming. with all your pc's components covered under one warranty plan, nzxt will manage any problems you have, and they've got live chat available for real time help and troubleshooting. great news, by the way,
for our australian friends, all of this is now available to you. so go check out nzxt's build system today using the link in the video description. so how many of you are
artists and game devs who have been eyeing this bad boy and waiting for the inevitable release that keeps getting pushed back? are there any gamers out there
who want it just because? let us know in the comments. and if you liked this video,
check out our pa32ucx review so you can at least
compare before you buy.