- this is one of the biggest
leaks in gaming history, the entire 2030 xbox
lineup has been leaked. we're talking about a
brand new xbox series x, updates to the xbox series
s, a brand new controller, and what microsoft are planning
for the next generation. we're talking 2028, an all
new generation of xbox, and it is all fully leaked in
this absolutely wild document. so this stems from the ftc.
(ambient music continues) so microsoft have been
trying to purchase activision for a while now, and as part of that they have given over an
enormous amount of documents, planning documents,
and just a lot of stuff that has been a little bit embarrassing, emails, all this kind of stuff. but the thing that really jumps
out to me, is this document, which is gone accidentally
live this morning. now, i'll say that this document
dates from may 2nd, 2022, so it is a little bit over a year old, which means that some
of the details might be slightly out of date today,
but largely speaking, there is a huge amount of detail here that there's just not gonna
be time for them to change. so the controller, codename sebile, has been a massive, massive
point of an overhaul, and honestly it's way more
than i would've expected. so this is targeted for june of 2024, so by around that normal sort of, i guess it used to be e3 timeline, and the things that they're
going to be doing with this, i would argue is a bigger
update to the controller than when we went from the
xbox one to the series x. first of all, goodbye aa batteries, the rechargeable is finally going to be built into the controller,
which yeah, about time. there are also a lot of proper
quality of life improvements. so there's going to be lift
to wake the controller, which is such a good idea,
i can't believe that someone hasn't actually done that already. we're talking about updated bluetooth, we're also talking about
the sort of two-tone finish, which looks a little bit more
like an elite controller, in my opinion. and we also have modular thumb sticks with improved longevity. now, a lot of when you look at this doc, a lot of what it seems like
they're aiming for here is not only an improved
controller that can be used, not only on-console, but also of course mobile
and cloud and whatnot. but also to make it a little
bit more sustainable, right? so getting rid of those aa batteries, having a rechargeable
built in, of course usb-c, having the ability for you
to fix your own thumb sticks at the very least. now, what they mean by modular
thumb sticks, i'm assuming, is just like you could pop the stick off and replace it once you wear it out, i don't think it's something
like, oh, hall sensor and something that's significantly
more, you know, involved, but still a major update
to the controller. we're also talking about
motion controls in this. so there's going to be an accelerometer built into the controller, and the haptics are also
going to double as speakers. when i look at this controller, what i really see is
this is xbox targeting a much more dualsense-like controller. i think that microsoft were probably caught a little flatfooted when they saw the dualsense controller and just how far sony had pushed that. so now with a few years to work on it, they've really kind of
revamped this controller from top down, and personally i'm very excited to get my hands on it, it seems like a pretty significant update. and then there's the
brand new xbox series x, codenamed brooklin. so everyone who was expecting a mid-generation pro console
is going to be disappointed, because this is much more
similar to a slim console, although it is a lot more
than just a slim xbox. first and foremost, the design
is being completely changed. now, when i first saw the series x, and specifically the components inside, what struck me was it looks expensive. so not only are there
two individual boards, the motherboard, and
there's a daughter board, that are sort of sandwiched
between this metal plate, and then the entire thing
is cooled by one large fan which pulls air from the bottom. it's a very clever design,
and it's a big reason why i think the series x is
so much smaller than the ps5, but it's also a big reason why i would be absolutely
shocked to find out that the series x is cheap
to manufacture, right? like, if you look at what's inside the ps5 versus the series x, it is clear that microsoft
has invested a lot of money in a very clever design, but a very expensive
design to manufacture. so designing a slim version of it, there's a lot of room for them
to bring their costs down. but one of the biggest surprises here is that this series x is
dropping the disc drive. so yeah, you could see, i
mean it's a cylindrical box, somewhat similar to the mac
pro, and i think there's some interesting sort
of similarities there. but if this leak is true, and i certainly believe
it's true, although again, i do think there's some details that likely have some room for change. they're targeting an all-digital
lineup starting in 2024, so series s of course
never had a disk drive, but the series x is going
to drop the disk drive, and nothing i can see in
these documents indicate that they are planning on
offering it as an option. much like we're largely expecting sony to drop the disk drive, but still have like an
optional attachment, or accessory or something. that's a tough pill to swallow, if i'm being entirely honest with you. i understand that, you know,
digital is clearly the future, and it's something they're
pushing more and more, and if any of these
companies are gonna do it between sony and microsoft,
it's gonna be microsoft, because they want you to
sign up for game pass, they don't really care that
much about physical sales, but i think there're
gonna be a lot of issues if they're just shipping
purely digital consoles when it comes to retailers. think about best buy or gamestop, like why are they gonna
really push your xbox if they can't make any money
selling physical games? if it's up to me, and this
is just pure speculation, again, there's no basis of these rumors as far as in these documents,
but i would be very surprised if there's not at least some kind of like disc drive attachment that you can purchase for the xbox. there is now a usb-c port on the front of that new series x, so to me it would seem
like a kind of no-brainer to at least have some kind
of disc drive attachment, but for right now, if we're just basing it purely on their roadmap here for 2030, they're gonna have an
xbox series x in 2024 with no disc drive and no backup. and i like how the tagline here is, "the most powerful xbox ever,
now adorably all digital," (laughs) i mean sure, "adorably all digital", we'll go with that, not, "gamers are gonna be real mad that they don't have the ability to play their back-compat games without, you know, buying them
again, or using game pass. now, this will be shipping
with that updated controller, and there are also some
improvements on the inside. so one of the ones that i
think is kind of interesting is the actual processor. so they're gonna be shrinking it from the original seven-nanometer chip, which actually have one right here, down to a six-nanometer chip. now that actually seems, maybe
not particularly ambitious, largely because sony already did that exact seven-to-six-nanometer swap, and they did it in 2022. so with the 1200 model of the ps5, sony secretly shrunk the
size of the processor to a six-nanometer chip, which gives them a little
bit more power efficiency, and importantly it's a little bit cheaper for them to manufacture. now, that seems like a very
straightforward and easy update for the microsoft crew, but i will say that the efficiency and the
gains on that are very small, like it is a technically
better chip, more efficient, a little bit cheaper to manufacture, but it's a pretty small difference, so the cooling requirements for this xbox are likely not going
to be enormously lower, which means that, while this
is going to be a redesign, i wouldn't expect it to
be that much smaller, if i'm entirely honest with you. we're also talking about
a new south bridge, which again is going to help to refine some of the actual size
and cost of these things, is going to have faster wi-fi 6e, that usb-c, new bluetooth radio,
a pretty sizable upgrade, i would say a very healthy slim model, and they're still targeting it at $499, the exact same price of
the series x at launch. now, because this is a
digital-only console, and they're probably saving
a little bit of space for the disc drive and
packaging and whatnot, they're also going to
have to offer bigger ssds, and they do have that listed
here in the actual list as far as a two-terabyte option. next up we've got the
update to the series s, codenamed ellewood. now this is a more minor refresh, because it's not a physical
redesign of the actual console, so we're talking about still $299, but making that 1 terabyte ssd standard. and if you remember just
a couple of weeks ago, microsoft released the 1
terabyte series s, but at $350. i actually really like the series s, as you would know if
you've seen that video, but making the 1 terabyte model
$300 makes a ton of sense. and there's even a reference here that when this model comes out, they're going to put the
old series s with 512 on fire sale, $199 for black friday, and that is a deal my friends. now, this will also be packaged in with the brand new updated controller. now, they do say that
it's got reduced power, although i don't actually believe that this is going to be an updated chip, largely because i think that reduced power is going to be based on
a better power supply and the better standby mode. but still, a very nice little
update for the series s. timeline-wise, we're looking
at the new series s launching in september of 2024, and we're seeing the
series x in november, and these are both, i would
say, fairly nice upgrades. now, it's certainly interesting
to think about the fact that there's not going to be
a pro version of the console this time around, but honestly
i'm not surprised by that. you know, phil spencer's
already kind of gone on record saying that he doesn't really find that there's a need for that. i kind of personally agree, but also, it's gonna be a little bit
of an awkward situation for the xbox crew when sony are gonna be out
here with a ps5 pro for years, and there's really not going to be an xbox counterpoint to that except for the next generation. yeah, my friends, it's
not just mid-gen updates, we've also gotta look
at what they're planning for the next generation of the xbox (laughs) i feel so bad for the
xbox guys that this leaked, but there is so much information here, it is wild that this thing is out here. and we're talking about options on how much they want to
invest in these things, how many consoles they
think they're gonna sell, it's wild. but the thing that i think
is also really interesting, is the ideas for the future. now. this is clearly not fully baked, specifically they have gen 10
investigations listed here, so it's something that i think
they're well into development but there's no way that
that's locked down yet. but, they're targeting 2028 for a brand new generation of xbox. there's a lot of other stuff
in this current gaps slide, which i think is really
interesting to pull up. so not only a new elite controller, as well as a luxury controller, which is not currently funded as of 2022, but something they want to investigate. pc accessories, the ability
to customize your xbox via design lab, which i
think would be really cool, they've already kind
played around with that with some skins, but the ability to actually
fully customize your controller would be really nice. and then there's this not
in scope for 1st party, kind of the off-limit stuff, which is like earbuds,
remotes, controllers, handheld, which i find to be really funny they're like, hey, we're
not doing an xbox handheld. there's also a sneak peek here at what the next
generation would look like. now i will say, out of everything
that we've talked about, this is the thing that you have to have the
biggest grain of salt for, because it's clearly microsoft thinking about what they want to do. but there's some really
interesting nuggets here. first and foremost is the idea
for cohesive cloud gaming. the concept is that you
would be able to leverage not only cloud resources,
but also your local game to be able to play stuff that is bigger, that is higher fidelity. i remember that there was a, i think it was crackdown on the xbox one that they had tried to
do something similar but it was a little too early. now, what this really truly means i think still feels like it's
a little bit up in the air, but there are some really
interesting nuggets for what we might expect
for the next generation. so there are some things that microsoft are specifically
calling out as far as, does it make sense to go
with an arm cpu versus x64, and they're specifically
calling out amd zen 6, which would be what they
would be basing it on, talking about big versus little cpu cores, co-designing the gpu
versus making their own or licensing the ip,
having a neural processor, which is pretty much
standard across the board for things like upscaling and whatnot. and then we're talking about things like next gen raytracing, a thin os for super cheap,
like less-than-$100 handhelds. like, obviously this is all just stuff they're planning right? so it's super, super early, these are just the things
they're thinking about. but this is our first real look at what the 2028 future of
gaming is going to look like, and man, i feel like i gotta
sit down after all this stuff. can we just all appreciate
this moment in history that we have seen such an
enormously comprehensive look at the current and next
generation of gaming? again, i want to give a sincere
apology to the xbox crew, 'cause the fact that this has
leaked is brutal for them. but from a gamer's point
of view, this is good news that xbox clearly are
very, very much investing in the future. and this is not even counting
a lot of the other stuff, i mean, there's emails from phil spencer talking about how he wishes
he could buy nintendo but he couldn't quite pull it off, there's a ton of stuff from bethesda, there's a lot of stuff in here. but i'm specifically talking
about the console stuff, 'cause i personally think
that that's the most relevant. and the fact that we
are going to be looking at a very interesting update to the series x and the series s, i'm very curious to see what
you think in the comments. but also, a sneak peek at what the next generation of
gaming is going to look like is very, very exciting. stay tuned, my friends, i think the console wars are
starting to heat right back up, and if you subscribe, you know that i'm gonna
give you the play by play, at six o'clock in the morning,
every time something leaks.