asml is one of tsmc's big suppliers and the 
only maker of euv photolithography machines   in the world. they make the machines 
that tsmc uses to fab its chips.   but there is so much more to semiconductor 
production than just photolithography. i want to continue my series on the industry's 
supply chain with another multi-billion dollar   semiconductor equipment supplier that flies 
under the radar: tokyo electron limited or tel. they are japan's biggest semiconductor equipment 
maker and one of its most valuable companies   with a $68 billion market cap. that 
is as big as nintendo or honda. in this video, we will look 
at tokyo electron's history,   what they actually do, and where they are within 
the semiconductor manufacturing supply chain.   in the meanwhile we will get to learn more 
about the process of making a semiconductor. tokyo electron research institute began over fifty 
years ago as a small, independent trading company.   founded in november 1963 by tokuo kubo and toshio 
okada, they started off with just six employees.   tokyo broadcasting system, 
a large japanese tv station,   saw their potential and invested 
5 million yen into their company. tbs still has a 4% stake to this 
day. now worth over $2 billion.   on a side note, some american and british hedge 
funds have been pressuring tbs to sell their   shares in tokyo electron and other investments 
to boost their stock price. interesting times. at first, tel sold pretty much 
anything. they were just one of   many such electronics trading companies in japan.   over half of their sales came from importing and 
selling car radios, calculators, and car stereos. their big break came in 1965 when the 
company signed an import contract with   american semiconductor maker fairchild to 
import their integrated circuit testers. the company then leveraged that 
experience to sign an import contract   for another critical semiconductor production 
item: diffusion furnaces from the american   firm thermco. more on what that does later. like with the chinese market today, american 
companies in the 1960s could not enter the   japanese market without first forming a joint 
venture with a local affiliate. these contracts   were clearly geared towards technology 
transfer. the japanese sought to leverage   access to its market to acquire technology 
and build up its own national champions. such practices remain controversial 
to this day. but tokyo electron   clearly benefitted from this joint 
venture. and by investing in r&d,   they were able to come out with 
products of their own for the market. for tokyo electron, the big turning point came in 
1973. the 1970s saw multiple economic crises like   the dollar shock of 1971 (a result of the 
plaza accords) and the oil crisis of 1973. in the midst of the economic crisis in 
1973, tokyo electron decided that it   would divest its consumer electronics 
import business entirely. they would   then focus on being the best manufacturer of 
semiconductor production equipment they can be. this was risky as the consumer electronics 
import division represented 60%   of the company's revenues. but leadership 
believed that semiconductor manufacturing   equipment had higher value-add. consumer 
electronics goods drove revenue,   but had low margins. it would not be 
long before that business died off. the move was completed in 1975. the next 
year, revenues grew 13% and profit, 97%.   the results validated the 
difficult decision. in 1980,   the company listed its shares 
on the tokyo stock exchange. japan's semiconductor industry 
saw its peak throughout the 1980s.   companies like nec, mitsubishi 
electric, hitachi and toshiba   explored the cutting edge of semiconductor 
manufacturing and dominated the market.   tokyo electron became one of their top 
suppliers. its customers' success was its own. but as the 1990s came around, low-cost 
japanese dram exports became a political issue.   japanese companies in the semiconductor 
industry built massive overcapacity per   national economic policy. they then dumped that 
capacity overseas, sparking trade disputes. here is an oft-cited example. 
256k dram prices in january 1985,   before japanese entry into the 
market, were about $17 per unit. after japanese entry, prices cratered 
to under $4 by august that same year. the japanese industry's per-unit 
cost of production? $6.34. the american semiconductor industry successfully 
lobbied to place limits on their japanese   competitors. combined with the yen's appreciation, 
japan pulled back. again, tokyo electron faced a   major threat to its business. in 1992, 80% 
of the company's revenues came out of japan. but as semiconductors in japan declined, 
it rose in other places around the world.   an opportunity existed to meet their needs too. 
so throughout the 1990s, tokyo electron expanded   their direct sales operations abroad to the 
united states, europe, taiwan and south korea. their continued investment in r&d to 
create cutting-edge products led to   new customers like intel, samsung and tsmc. 
and today their income is very international.   in fiscal year 2020, japan now accounts 
for less than 15% of their total revenues. the company's size and importance is such that 
when applied materials attempted to acquire   them in 2013 for $9 billion, the antitrust 
enforcement agencies in the united states,   eu, and south korea all sued to stop 
it. the combined company would have   controlled over 25% of the entire super-critical 
semiconductor production equipment industry. the merger was eventually called off 
in 2015, disappointing top management.   but since the company today is worth north of $65 
billion dollars, i think they are doing alright. okay, okay i have talked about tel's history 
enough. what on earth do they actually sell? tokyo electron is different from asml because 
they do not build super-sexy, ultra-cutting   edge machinery like lithography steppers. 
there are no tin droplets or lasers here. rather, tel's products span the entire 
semiconductor manufacturing chain.   their technologies help create not only the 
logic processor chips that power your devices,   but also flat panel displays in 
those devices' screens as well. i don't want to bore y'all with a long lecture 
so i am going to focus on just four of their   most critical semiconductor production business 
lines: lithography coating/developing, deposition,   dry etch, and cleaning. these are the lines in 
which tel has strong market share as of 2017. these lines serve certain steps 
within what is called the "front   end" of semiconductor manufacturing. tel does 
offer packaging and inspection machinery,   essential steps in what is labeled the "back 
end", but i am going to exclude those for now.   i will do a video exploring advanced 
packaging technologies sometime in the future. the goal of the front end is to turn a pure,   un-patterned silicon wafer 
into a structured wafer. that wafer then gets cut into its individual dies.   so a single structured wafer might have 
hundreds or even thousands of dies within it. a single structured wafer has many layers to 
it. inside your fab, wafers go through a bunch   of development steps many times. each step adds 
or modifies those layers until the final design   meets the customer's goals. tel's products 
contribute to some of these individual steps. these steps do not always go 
in a neat, sequential order.   some are repeated many times before going to 
another step. it all depends on the design. also note that i am absolutely not looking 
to be comprehensive of the whole process.   i just want to give a general 
overview of what tel's products do. deposition is a general phrase for putting down 
a metal layer onto a substrate or wafer surface.   there are a number of reasons you would want to 
do this. for instance, if you want to deposit   layers of copper to create connections between 
the devices within your integrated circuit. tel offers devices that do this with various 
elements and in various ways. for instance,   their nt333 system, which performs a 
technique called atomic layer deposition. the nt333 combines several 
precursor chemicals or reactants   to apply a film of chemicals onto the wafer. it 
does this by exposing one chemical after the other   in an alternating sequence, so that 
what is left is an even, uniform layer. fyi. i like that tel's website looks like as if   joe the plumber can call them up and buy 
their products for his plumbing business. the nt333 is notable compared to its competitors 
because it is able to do this in what tel calls   "semi-batches", which means they can do 
more wafers at once. batch work means   less fine control, but saves cost. the nt333 
attempts to offer the best of both worlds. there are other deposition techniques 
that tel's products can do. for instance,   its telindy plus system, which performs thermal 
processing. its furnace uses heat to initiate   a reaction of a precursor gas so to deposit a 
thin, even layer of chemicals onto wafer batches. this business line is one of tel's 
oldest. remember that deal with thermco? these two are a pair of sub-steps within 
another step called "photo-masking".   in photo-masking, we coat the wafer with 
a uv-sensitive resin called a photo-resist   that "masks" it. kind of like when painting 
a car, you put a protective covering on the   windshield to keep it from getting painted 
on. this step is referred to as "coating". then you expose the wafer to uv light. or in 
the case of euv, extreme uv light. this is   where asml's $150 million euv steppers would be 
used, projecting the chip pattern onto the wafer.   what this pattern is depends on 
the chip designer's specification. you end up with an exposed photo-resist and a 
protected photo-resist. then a solvent can be   applied that washes away the unwanted parts of the 
photo-resist. what that might be - the exposed or   unexposed part - depends on the type photo-resist 
used. that rinsing step is called "developing". tel's coating and developing machines are 
branded as the clean track and lithius pro z. now that we have the remaining 
photo-resist to guide you,   it is time to etch away on the layer. think of 
it like having drawn an outline of your hand   onto a block of wood. and now you want to 
cut away everything outside of the outline. there are two ways of doing the etching. there is 
wet etching, which uses liquids. or dry etching,   which uses a gaseous compound like oxygen 
or chloride. tel's machines do the latter. tel's industry leading dry etch system is 
called the tactras. this machine shoots a   stream of gas plasma that is able to do the 
etching in a uniform and accurate manner. announced in 2006 but first shipped in 2010, the 
machine cost about 4-9 million dollars back then.   but if you do not want that then you can visit the 
globalfoundries surplus and used equipment website   and buy a gently used etch machine from 
there. hopefully there is free shipping. 30-40% of the steps in modern wafer fabrication   involves some form of wafer cleaning. 
naturally, it is really important. the idea is simple: after the aforementioned 
steps, you need to clean off any chemical or   particle impurities. otherwise, those impurities 
will drastically affect your wafer yields.   oh and you have to do the cleaning 
without leaving any damage. wafer cleaning comes in many forms and 
variations. it is not just one thing.   for instance, there is the photo-resist cleaning, 
where you take off the photo-resist layer   after the etching step is completed. there 
is a clean step for particle contamination,   where you remove particles using 
extremely strong acids. and so on. tel's brand of cleaning systems is the cellesta, 
which sounds to me like a brand of salsa,   and the machine can handle about a thousand 
wafers per hour. like with a dishwasher at   a restaurant, the more wafers you can 
put through the machine, the better. alright that's it for tokyo electron's 
business lines. i hope this section   helped you better understand the breadth 
of this billion dollar company's business. tokyo electron is a pretty low key company 
considering how big of a role it plays in the   semiconductor manufacturing industry. finding 
information about them was pretty difficult.   but without their contributions, the industry 
as a whole will struggle to function. when i read the press and mainstream articles 
surrounding semiconductor manufacturing,   i tend to see a lot of the 
same names. you see tsmc,   samsung and intel of course. and lately, you are 
starting to see asml and euv show up a lot too. with all this chatter flying around, i think 
it is easy to get drawn into a belief that   semiconductor production leadership or capacity 
is basically dependent on asml shipping a bunch   of euv machines. i can see the comments 
now: "asml has a monopoly on euv machines,   blah blah blah, no one can catch up. so asml 
> tsmc/intel/samsung/tokyo electron, so on." i keep talking about this: it takes a massive 
village to make the chips inside your phones,   gpus and cars. tel's very history is testament to 
the industry's global nature. without systems from   international companies like tokyo electron, 
those expensive euv machines are useless. you   do not skip steps. it all has to be there for 
the final product to work as well as it does. i have always been really impressed with how 
foundries get all these machines to work together   in harmony to churn out thousands of wafers 
a month. exploring what companies like tel do   only deepens that sentiment. a 
multi-million dollar machine for   this tiny step that nobody talks about. 
no other word for it. wow. just wow.