- you can't build a gaming pc right now, but that's okay. we all know just how difficult it is to get your hands on pc
gaming hardware right now. which is why we've teamed up with epos, the sponsors of today's video. so what exactly is our secret? a gaming laptop. now i know, before you click away and say, "oh, i don't care about gaming laptops." hear me out here, because gaming laptops have gotten very, very good. and i honestly think that
they're an excellent alternative to building your own
gaming pc at the moment. but trust me when i say, we're certainly not just
going to be putting a laptop on a desk and calling
it a day for the setup. i'm gonna start out with, of course, we've got ourselves our epos gaming b20 streaming microphone. but before we get into that, we've got just a little bit
of set up building to do, starting with our table top. so, i'm gonna build this now, huh? i just have to screw legs in! they already have my holes. i just have to screw it. (drill buzzes) that was very frightening. (drill buzzes) one of the things with the
setup that we're trying to do is build it in a way which is
not going to cost $400,000, like some other setups that
we may have done in the past. (clears throat) this tabletop, $22.99. - [ken] wow.
- yeah, pretty good deal. how many overclock media employees does it take to build an ikea cabinet? - [ken] none, we quit. what are you doing? - oh god. oh, that's great. - [ken] you know what would be great? - you know what would be great? is if everyone keeps their
comments to theirselves while i screw. - [ken] you know, we've been rolling for 10 minutes. - how long does it take
to screw in four legs? - [ken] well,
at this rate, 40 minutes. - look at that, secure legs. (leg clicks) secure legs. after a little bit of editing magic, the setup is basically complete. i mean, now that we
have our $60 ikea table with wheels. (stool vibrating) - [matt] oh my
god, what are you doing? - [ken] no! - it has wheels. looks great! look how supportive it is. so before we get too far in the setup, i actually wanna get our main components out of the box and kinda roughly lined up. so one of the issues that i
think we would normally have, is, while, a monitor like this is nice, there's actually a pretty
big footprint here, so we can get it off of the desk and connect it to this vesa mount, i think it'll save us some space, especially because we're
using that gaming laptop. i think what will be nice is if we have the monitor say in the back middle here, and we can actually raise it up enough so we can put the laptop in front of it. so we essentially have
our dual screen setup. so one thing i'm realizing, the height adjustability of this, i just put it all the way to the top. i think that, that should
be enough space, right? or do i actually want to lower that? something like this? - [ken] oh yeah, there you go. - but we've got to put it
on a little riser, right? we can also put it on the riser over here, and it might look really nice. all right. so, oh, you know what, no, we're going to definitely have
to put this off to the side, 'cause we've got a full mouse
and keyboard we're using. so we're actually not going to be using the input on the laptop. so we've got to toss it
off to the side here. - [ken] if
you wanted to save money, you could just use
what's on the laptop, but - i'll say for my editing setup, both at home and at work, i use my laptop keyboard
paired with an external mouse. but i like that because it kind of keeps everything nice and tight. so in true budget fashion, we've got ourselves a
relatively affordable desk pad that costs, - [ken] $12? - $12. - that's a relative bargain! oh my, are you guys just buying mouse pads for yourselves at this point?
- [ken] yes. - okay, okay, fine, fine,
fine, red, red, red, okay, okay i've got
the red here. go ahead. - oh, that's nice. that's nice. - [ken] so that is our actual laptop stand in pieces. ooh, it looks so good in person. - so a neat trick to undo anything that is curled up like this poster or mat, whatever it is, you roll in reverse. let your body heat just kind of- - [austin] what!?
(dramatic musical note) - let your body heat just
kind of help form this. - [austin] excuse me? - yeah. - [austin] what does
this have to do with body? oh, okay. we don't need body heat and that whatever you're doing right now. - [matt] can you sensor that? - [austin] your body
heat was very successful. - all right. this is actually looking pretty good. i feel like we rotate
that just a little bit. that started to come together as a setup. - you know the kids say sheeeeeeeeesh sheeeeeeeeeesh
sheeeeeeeeeeeeessh sheesh
[austin laughs] - what's wrong? - i'm gonna throw you. (austin sheeshes) - [austin] i'm not afraid of you. (austin sheeshes)
- he's so light. - i'm compact and portable size. - he's so light. - why? hello there and
welcome to the setup, which is now making some serious gains. so, not only do i have our
epos mounted on a nice boom arm which means that we
have lots of flexibility while we're streaming or
recording or whatever. but on top of that, we also have a couple of additional things to
help the laptop work better. first of all, we have ourselves a dock, i just linused that, didn't i? so we have ourselves a dock. now, the astute of you may have noticed that we were using the g14, which does not have thunderbolt. if we had thunderbolt, it would've made this a little bit easier but regardless, this is a usb-c dock. now we're going to be able to plug in all of our usb ports and whatnot
with the single cable. we'll also be able to
go out via displayport. and on top of that, it
also supports an m.2 ssd. so this is wild overkill,
and i wouldn't really recommend you to do this
because there are much cheaper options, but we're
using a samsung 980 pro which is going to be mounted in here. we also do have a logitech c922x webcam. the g14 does not have a
webcam, which is fine. this will be a great webcam so
that we can see as we stream. dude, look how many things
you get, how much was this? - $120. - that's pretty good. - it's actually one of the
cheaper docks that you can find. and it has an m2 slot. so i'm actually really
stoked about this and it may or may not end up at my
house after we were done. - of course, like everything now to install our wild
overkill 980 pro ssd. it's a great ssd. you're just not getting that
full pci 4.0 speed over usb. you install it upside
down. that's so weird. oh, that's really tight in there. but i guess we'll just
say, that's fine, right? this is starting to come together. it's not a super complicated setup. it's not a super expensive setup. what it is, is pretty
much everything you need to game and stream all in not only a reasonable sized package, but reasonable priced package as well. i'm actually really happy
with how this looks. there's some real aesthetic
game going on here short of all the trash and
whatnot i need to clean up. and so we have our gaming setup complete. i am really happy with how this came out but especially when it
comes to the aesthetics before we show you all of the details let's talk a little bit about
the sponsor of today's video the epos gaming b20 microphone that you're listening to me on right now. you can see when i get up nice
and close to the microphone doesn't it sound lovely when i'm right on top of the microphone. if you've never heard of epos,
it's a new brand that comes from the demerger of
sennheiser and demont. and they're entirely dedicated to building high-end
audio hardware for gamers. so what i'm using right
now is the epos b20. this is a usb microphone that is meant for streaming, as well
as for audio recording. one of the nice things is it
delivers a high quality sound without needing a lot of
additional hardware to drive it. so think about things like
having that full 24-bit support as well as 48khz sample rate. and on top of that, it
is super easy to set up. now, right now, i have it set
with its cardioid patterns. so you actually have a couple of different pickup patterns
that you could adjust on the back. one of the nice
things is for streamers, you actually have a couple of options on the microphone itself. so not only do i have
myself the volume knob so i can adjust the
levels in my headphones. so right now i have my headphones
plugged in below the desk but i'm just running it out of the cable on the top of the microphone. but on top of that, you also have the gain
control in the back. so you can really tweak it
exactly the way you want and you can get that playback so you can mix in your discord audio or whatever you want
while you're streaming as well as being able to hear yourself so you know that you can get nice and close to the mic and
it'll sound extra crispy. and if you look behind
me you'll also see the epos gaming suite. now, this is nice because
it allows you to not only adjust something like the eq, as well as being able to
adjust your headphones. but you also have additional features, such as noise cancellation. i might be a little biased, but i think the b20 looks
pretty nice on camera. it's got that full metal construction. and on top of that, there are a ton of knobs and buttons that can
make your life a lot easier. something like having a physical
mute button right up front. you also have a knob for, not
only the headphone volume, which is nice because this actually is passed directly through to windows, so as you move the volume, it actually is adjusting
your full windows volume so you don't have to deal with that. and on top of that, you also have a physical
gain knob on the back. the good thing here is
that you don't have to dive into software if you don't want to. if you want to make a quick adjustment grab the knob, spin it,
turn it on, turn it off whatever you want. for cable management and flexibility, i do have the b20 on a boom arm, but it does come with a
stand right in the box. so if you're interested and
you want to up your audio game, definitely be sure to
go check out the epos gaming b20 microphone at
the link in the description. now the question i think
most people are asking is why would i want to build an entire setup around a gaming laptop? now, hear me out. first of all, it is really
hard to get your hands on any new piece of gaming hardware, specifically graphics card related. sure, if you're incredibly
lucky and you grab something at retail, good job! but it is hard to find
anything, and it's hard to find stuff even if you're willing
to pay at 2-3 times markup. now, what i would argue
would be a better solution for a lot of people, is to buy something like
this, the zephyrus g14. now this is a 14 inch gaming laptop. and while it might not
look that impressive, this thing is packing some serious power. not only do you have an 8 core ryzen 9 5900 hs processor, but importantly you also have yourself an rtx 3060. so, i don't know if you've looked at the price of an rtx 3060 recently but, this laptop is not that much more and you get the entire package. the other advantage to
going with a gaming laptop for something like this, is that you have the power to run a setup like this really easily. as you'll see in a minute, you have not only plenty
of gpu performance, but you have enough cpu performance to do things like streaming. you can do editing. you can use it as a full-blown desktop pc without losing a ton of performance. and then when you're done
gaming, when you're ready to go to work or school or anything,
you unplug two cables, technically three because
i put the webcam on top cause i like the angle,
but obviously that can go somewhere else. but, you
unplug a couple of cables and then you've got the
battery life to last you all day long, come home, plug
it into a couple of things get it back up and running
with the monitor and the dock. and you've got yourself
a full gaming setup. now, if you've got yourself an rtx 3080 lying
around, congratulations. i hope you enjoy having one kidney. (clears throat) but i really do think that a gaming laptop makes a lot of sense
for a set up like this. and that's why i'm really happy with how clean we were able
to get this entire setup. some of the stuff we're
using is a little unorthodox. so, to try to save a little bit of money we are using the
steelseries apex 3 keyboard. it actually looks very expensive, right? you've got the rgb backlight and you've got yourself the magnetic rest. but the thing is, this
is only a $50 keyboard. the reason it's $50 is (keyboard clicking) it is technically a membrane keyboard. i know, i know shock, awe, surprise, but for 50 bucks this is actually one of the nicest feeling
keyboards i've ever used. now, ken and i may have
had a little argument over whether it would have
been better to just get one of those cheap, cherry
blue switch keyboards that are slightly cheaper, that don't have all the extra features. [ken] this is fine. this is fine. - this is fine, it's fine. [ken] this
sounds and feels better than any of those. - this is the pwnage
ultra custom symmetrical. now, if it looks slightly
like a certain glorious mouse that you may or may not
know, that's because it is. it's both wired and wireless,
it is super lightweight. and the main reason why we purchased it is because the glorious wasn't in stock. so, it's basically the same and it costs about the
same as well, right? [ken] yeah, about
maybe five-ish dollars more. - okay, all right, i mean it's 69 euros. so, how could you argue
with a nice deal like that? to give ourselves some
more screen real estate, especially when it comes to
something like streaming, we are using an aoc 27 inch
monitor with a qhd resolution. and importantly, it can go
all the way up to 165 hertz. now, at only $280, this is a pretty
reasonably priced monitor. it doesn't really have
a lot of extra features, like usb hubs and whatnot, but importantly it has that frame rate. and especially with this resolution, it matches up nicely with the rog g14. this is running at 144 hertz,
this is running at 165 hertz. it gives you a nice seamless experience going between the monitors. on top of that, it's also
a pretty large panel. now we are using a vesa arm to kind of free up a
little bit of space, but, it really does a good
job of not only matching the look of the setup, but importantly giving ourselves plenty
of screen real estate for gaming, streaming, whatever. so now, i think it's enough
talking about the setup. why don't we actually
see how it performs when we're gaming and streaming at the same time? be funny if we spent all this time building the setup and
telling you how great it is, and then it's like, "oh, this is kind of, this is kind of whatever". pretty sure it'll be okay though. and so this is what the setup looks like once we're up and running. so, not only do you hearing
me on the b20 right now, but importantly we're also recording using our logitech webcam. so, i hop over here into valorant. let's see how well i can do with talking and gaming at the same
time, not my strongest suit. but what's nice about this, is
that we have the performance to back this up, right? so we're playing right now at 1440p. we also have pretty much
all the settings set to high and we're able to
record at the same time, although this would be
the same performance if we were streaming live. the nice thing about
this setup is that while, yes you hear the laptop,
there's a little bit of noise from the fans,
but the epos actually does a really good job
of knocking that out. and on top of that, i've got myself, well, what i would say is
almost an overkill setup. like, this 27 inch monitor,
i almost want to be farther back from it, it's
so huge and immersive. all right. so i'm getting a solid 200
frames per second right now. it feels pretty good. that was, okay, well come on over. (gunshot) - dominated (laughing) - saw that one coming one of the nice things
about having my audio routed like this is right now i can, now i can die, but i can hear the game audio, but i also can hear my own audio. so, if there's any issues
or whatever, i know exactly what it's like and i can tell when i get right up on top of the mic. that was really slow reaction time. (gunshots) there we go, look at that! that was an mlg play right there. i'm gonna stop making mlg references. no one knows what mlg is anymore. all right, i'm up to 9 and 13 see, for austin evans, that's pretty good. that's like basically flawless. i've got to say the setup is
working really well though. i mean, i might not be
working really well, but the setup actually, it
feels super comfy, right? the display, nice and high refresh rate i've got myself, some,
okay kills, i guess. [ken] and you have more or less 0% drop frames too. - i don't have any drop frames right now? [ken] you have 45, but that's just normal obs encoding lag. - i have 45 dropped frames
in the last 13 minutes. and i think that's almost entirely between switching, switching windows. so, i feel pretty good about that. hey, that was a pretty
good one, look at that! austin, steal your kills evans. all right, i gotta say, this actually is pretty solid. it might seem scary to
use a gaming laptop and not to use a desktop pc,
but with something like this we have, not only the portability, but we have the performance, right? that rtx 3060 has plenty
of power for gaming. and with the nvenc encoding,
we can stream no problem. so thank you very much for watching. make sure to go check out the
epos b20 gaming microphone at the link in the description. of course, huge shout out
to them for sponsoring this video. until the
next time we build some questionable setup out of
some questionable ideas, thank you very much for watching.