i'm gonna show you why the menger
sponge is my all-time favorite fractal and i'm gonna show you how to squeeze some
pi out of it. but first we need to start with "what is a fractal?" and to do that
initially we need ... a square! ... right so here i am in a fairly standard issue square,
you can see it's got a nice tidy amount of surface area in front and it's got a
finite perimeter going around the edge we're now going to turn it into a
fractal. to do that we need to just divide the surface up into 9 smaller
squares. i'm gonna say we're dividing it up into thirds, 'cos that's what we're doing in
both directions we can now take the centre 3rd and just pop it out so here we have most
of the square still intact the surface area has gone down slightly it's now
eight ninths of what it was before and correspondingly, the perimeter is
gone up slightly because of this new bit in the middle but we can repeat the
process check out these eight squares, we can divide all of them into thirds, we can pop out
the middle bit and we've now reduced the area again it's now eight ninths of eight ninths
of the original area and the perimeter is gone up slightly but why stop there? we
can get of those remaining tiny little squares we can divide them all up into thirds,
pop out the centre ninth from every single one of them and then repeat. you can do
this over and over again. in fact to be a true fractal you have to do this infinitely many times. we need to be able to zoom in constantly and never hit the bottom no matter how far you go down you will always
see the missing bits in the middle that means, if we try and work out the total
area of this fractal shape it's zero because that's the limit if you've got eight ninths times eight ninths times eight ninths. eight ninths to some power as that power goes towards
infinity the area goes to zero. whereas the perimeter, because it gets bigger each
time it goes towards infinity. so this is a
shape with zero surface area but yet an infinite perimeter. so this is a 2d shape
called a serpinski carpet and fractals are now a century-old it was 1916 when mr serpinski
first came up with this and frankly it's been amazing people ever since (although to be
honest we probably should stop zooming in for a while because this is starting to make
me feel a little bit scale sick) of course now we can do this one dimension
higher to get a true 3d fractal this time you start with a cube you could
imagine dividing each face up into ninths and then you punch out the center
ones and effectively what you've done is if you started with the cube made up of
27 smaller cubes you've taken out all the one that cross through the center
leaving this shell of 20 cubes. but you could take each of those twenty cubes and you
could repeat the process punch out the center of all of them and then you can
do that again and in theory you could carry this on infinitely many times and
you would get the fractal which has zero volume but yet infinite surface area the
menger sponge. you can even make your own one of these there is an origami method
to take six business card you can fold them all together to make a cube and
then you could actually attach kind of cladding printed cards onto the outside and if each of those outside cards has a serpinski carpet printed onto it the resulting cube looks like a menger sponge. but why stop there? before you put the cladding on you could've joined
twenty of those cubes together could they've got little tabs that interlock
and they all join quite nicely those 20 cubes would give you a level one
menger sponge. why stop there? 20 cubes? please! what if you made 20 of those level ones
that would require 400 cubes but if you were able to get together you could make
yourself a level two menger sponge and of course for completeness you could
take 20 level 2 menger sponges and join them all together to make a level 3 but what a ridiculous
origami object that would be 8000 cubes all clicked together
strategically covered in cladding no one will be ridiculous enough to try such ok
i may have done it i got together with some friends of mine at the manchester
science festival in 2014 and we built a level 3 menger sponge. you can see the level one sat
inside it there and the whole thing is level 3. what an achievement! and we weren't even the
first to make one of these. origami expert jeannine mosely had previously made a
level 3 origami menger sponge in fact she's the one who came up with the
technique to do this but we were so pleased we've made to achieve this. and then we
thought, well hang on, why don't we make a level four we would just have to make twenty of
these which i will admit even for me and my ridiculous group of volunteering
friends that is not achievable to make a level four menger sponge we worked out you
would need around a million business cards and you would need people all around
the world. you would pretty much have to build 20 of them in different locations around
the planet. which we may have done. so as well as manchester in the uk we had other
cubes in london and edinburgh in cambridge and bath and plenty more and
then in the united states there was new york and oregon and san francisco and
colorado and plenty more sorry for all the people i haven't mentioned
specifically and then around the world new zealand, china, spain, finland, canada
(wherever that is) we were able to build the equivalent of a level 4 menger sponge, admittedly distributed around the planet this was a project called mega menger i will
admit one of the more ridiculous ideas i have ever come up with and i cant
believe it actually happened i'm hugely in debt to katie steckels and laura
tillman who helped me put this whole thing together and then queen mary
university of london made it possible to provide the business cards to so many
places all around the planet and we actually did it
if you wanna see more of the photos you can go to megamenger.com and we
still have all the instructions on there you can build your own one of these you
can even still send it in we've got enough for a level four but we're still taking more photos as people built them all around the world check out the website there are
worksheets, resources, banners, theres the full set of printing instructions you can
just give to a printer and they will make the cards up for you or you can
provide your own cards. at the very least at the end of this video go print out at home and make
for yourself a level one menger sponge so that mega menger and that's why the
menger sponge has a very special place in my mathematical heart. but how does pi tie into
this? well just when i thought i was able to leave the menger sponge behind i was
over at a recreational math conference in atlanta, usa. it's called the gathering
for gardner, and actually it was at the same meeting two years ago where i first met
laura and we hatched the ridiculous plan to do the whole mega menger project, and at the
meeting this time i did a presentation about my various videos where i'd used
pies to try and calculate the value of pi i know it's hilarious i did the one
where i took hundreds of pies and put them in a circle you can see that over
on the numberphile channel and i talked about the video on this stand-up maths
channel a little while ago where i suspended a pie from a string and used
a pi-endulum to calculate pi. at last my talk was finished and i went back to my seat to listen to the next talk someone walked over to me tapped me on the shoulder and handed me
a piece of paper and then they just walked away. and i unfolded and i had a look at it
and it said "squeezing pie from the menger sponge" and i thought ..  i've never come across pi in the
menger sponge before what on earth could this possibly be and i managed to
resist the temptation to google it there and then because other people were doing
their talks later on i looked it up and i could not believe what i found. once
again we need to start with another square so here i am in once again boring 2d square. so when i googled
squeezing pi from the menger sponge initially it gave me a slightly
different variation on the serpinski carpet. i went to a website where a guy
called ed pegg had written a whole lot of mathematica code to generate a serpinski carpet but then he made one slight tweak. so initially if we take the area of the serpinski carpet to be four. so before we've done anything, we've punched nothing out it's four, we can now remove the center 3rd
like before now we're not going to remove the center third of all the
remaining squares, we're going to remove the centre fifths, so actually we're
taking away one 25th, or rather we're leaving 24 25ths. and so the area of this shape is
four times eight ninths times 24 25ths and now we can continue. all the remaining
ones were gonna take out the center seventh. so we're gonna leave behind 48 49ths. and we
can carry on all the way down. next we'll have 63 64ths and then 80 81ths (or whatever you
wanna call them). and miss time that is not tending to 0. this fractal has got some
left over surface area if you actually work out what it is, it's pi. yep you are
looking at exactly pi surface area as much as that sudden appearance of pi
shocked me (classic pi) after a little while it
made a smidgen of sense fractals and pi are quite well made for each other. to get a
fractal you have to do something over and over and over and over and it only
truly works if you do it infinitely many times. in a recent video which i will
link to below i tried to calculate pi using an infinite series and again you
have to do the same thing over infinitely many times and so this
particular fractal is actually based on something called in the wallace formula, or the
wallace infinite product. if you multiply all these crazy fractions
together you get pi and the shape in front of me is basically just doing that
but in a geometric way and so this is called the wallace sieve. it still blows my mind that
this thing, a square with a radius of one, so the distance from the center to hit
the side at an orthogonal angle has an area of pi, and you go "well hang on, what is the other shape with the radius of one that has a surface area of pi?" that's right it's a circle!
so this crazy shape here has the same surface area as a standard-issue garden variety unit circle. but what about 3d? i mean this worked in 2d surely we can
generalize it up a dimension. well ed wasn't sure and these things are never
guaranteed to work in higher dimensions so instead of doing the elaborate working
out first, he thought he'd just give it a go so if you take a 3d cube and
then you punch out the center one-third squares and on the remaining squares you
punch out the center fifth squares and then 1/7th and all the way down, the volume of
the shape you end up with is indeed based on pi. he couldn't believe it
when it came out to be four thirds of pi. it is the volume of a sphere that
would fit inside the cube, and that just blows my mind the volume of that is the
same as the volume of that. maths eh? so there you are, that is how you squeeze pi out of the mega menger, it may have been my all-time favorite fractal but i didn't know it could do
that until just a week ago. if you'd like to learn more about how to make your own
origami one of these you can watch the video which the mit guys made about
their part in the mega menger project they've got a pretty good explanation of
how you put it together and there's a guest appearance from jeannine mosely
herself underneath the video in the description i will have a link both in
the mega menger project to ed peggs's page if you wanna have a
closer look at how to actually grab a hold and squeeze out some pi.