why- why would you make this? what is the point of- 
they're the same, they're just different colors.   (brady: 1, 2 and 3 and then some have got 
circles around them. some-)
- and there's a 4 over  there. (oh there's a 4, we have got a 4)
- in a triangle, yeah. 
- (4, triangle)
- triangles and circles yeah. not not super   obvious what it's for
- (no it's not popping into my head)
- all right well maybe somebody's figured it   out by now. this- these are simultaneously 
4-sided 3-sided and 2-sided diced, at   the same time. so at the same time you make one 
roll and you get an answer on a 4-sided die and an answer on a 3-sided die and an answer 
on a 2-sided die. so, again, first world problem   but you've got you have to carry fewer dice 
around; you don't have to carry a coin. i mean   who who has money anyway these days? so anyway, 
so okay so how do you read them? so the one in   the middle, or the 1 it turns out in the middle 
is the answer for your 3-sided die. so there's   a ring of four 1s around here and then you turn 
this way there's a ring of four 2s around here,   and there's a ring of four 3s around here.
so well the shape here is based on a rhombic    dodecahedron but it's sort of rounded off at the- 
at some of the corners. so we have these three   rings of numbers which give you the result for 
the the d3, the 3-sided die. 
- (1, 2 or 3) 1, 2 or 3. and you know 12 total and they're
split into three sets of four. when it lands on   one of these things you you get a circle and a 
triangle on the top as well; and the circle and   the triangle - if you think about the shape of this -
these are on the sort of vertices with three   sides around them and those are arranged at the 
vertices of a cube if that makes sense. so there's   eight of them arranged at the vertices of a cube 
that you can sort of imagine being encased inside   of the shape. and so whenever it lands you get two 
of the vertices of the cube up...and we have circles   on four of those eight vertices of the cube to 
represent the coin, so that's the two-sided die,   and triangles represent the four-sided die because 
the standard- you know shape of four-sided die is   the the tetrahedron so that's the triangle and 
those are on the other four corners of that   that cube that's inside. 
- (is every permutation or combination equally likely?)
- excellent question. so   or another way to phrase it would be are the 
are the dice rolls independent, right? so you know-   well so the answer is not quite. so the 3-sided 
die is independent of either the 2 and the 4; but the 2 and the 4 are not independent. so- and in 
fact you can see that. suppose you you you say well   what if i get a a 4 on my 4-sided die, then 
what are the possibilities for the 2-sided die?   well there's a 1 there or you could get a 1
there or you could get a 2. so if you're going to   get a 4 on your 4-sided die then you're more 
likely to get a 1 on your 2-sided die than you   are to get a 2. you can't separate them out, there 
aren't enough dimensions or something but almost.  i can't imagine what sort of gambling game would 
involve rolling the die and taking all the different   results and mixing them up but but yeah that's the 
one thing to be careful of. 
- (okay nice)
- all right so   that's that. so again what are these for? 
and this is not at all easy, this is very hard i   would say to figure out what these are for. they 
go together, obviously they're not the same. this   is just a 3-sided die with 1, 2 and 3.
whoops - almost - cliffhanger on the edge. so that's   a 1 because it's the one- you can see the 1 is 
is sort of at the top. and if it landed this way   that would be a 3. and the way the shape is it 
can't land on any of the ends cos it just it just   falls over. there we go, so that's just a 3-sided 
die. this is an ordinary dodecahedron but the numbers   are weird. for example there are two 6s. so 
again, why would we go to the effort and expense   of making this thing? what is the point?
- (is 6 the only number that's repeated?)
- there's another   repeated number. 
- (4 is repeated-)
- there's two 4s..
- (nah it's impossible)  so this is- hello? all right, it's a poltergeist. so the idea with these is you roll them together, you 
add up the numbers - this is a 1 and a 4 so   we got 5 - and when you do that the probability, 
the distribution, of the sum of those two numbers   is the same as if you roll two ordinary 6-sided dice 
and added them together. this is a different way   to roll two d6.
- (that- that's pointless)
- of course but-
- (that's properly pointless) thank you, yes. as a pure mathematician it is it is my inalienable right to do pointless things because they're fun and because you can. when you roll two d6 and 
you add them together, how likely is it to get each   different number? so you just make a grid with six 
slots here for the first die and six slots here and   we can just fill it in. 7 is the most common 
thing you can get out of two d6 and then it gets   less and less likely as you go the other direction. 
so the the different possible outcomes are: you've   got a 2, one outcome out of 36 because there are 
6 times 6 possibilities that you get. the 3,  so there's like a thing here this is 2 out of 36, 
the 4 you're getting 3 out of 36 and and   so on. the 5 is 4 out of 36, 6 is 5 out of 36, 
7 is 6 out of 36. so you have a 1 in 6 chance - 6 out of 36 - of getting 7 on on two d6 and then it goes back 
down again. so all we have to do is come up with   some sets of numbers on the dice which have the 
same numbers when you do this. there's a version of   this for two cubical dice which is not the 
standard numbering but also does the same thing   and and these are called sicherman dice. right so 
the numbering on the the sicherman dice are 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4 and 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8. so again not the standard 
numbering obviously but now we can just add it up.   another way to number two ordinary cubical 6-sided dice - let's 
just do a spot check. you're supposed to get   six 7s and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. so you you- 
- (oh they're not in the same- they're not in the same nice rows that) (they were in on the other die.)
- well right, because 
i mean it's it's a bit messier. so so let's   do this one. 
- (what have you called this?)
- so so we called these recast 2d6. so 2d6 being notation for   take two 5 sided dice add them together. recast as i 
don't know, cast is sort of like you cast your dice?   whatever
- (i think you need some marketing help)
- yeah well. so all right and then we need 12 here, all   right. so this this is 1, 2 and 3 that's easy. 
so we know that there better be a 1 somewhere   on there, right, so there's a 1. because we have 
to get 2 right? and the total has to be 2. and   we've definitely got a 2. this is very dangerous, 
i could screw this up. well you can kind of figure   it out because so far this is just doing this 
standard thing here. so i've got all of my 4s already yeah; and i've got two of my 5s and 
i've got a 6. anyway so 4- there are two 4s. there we go 4, 4; there are two 5s,
5, 5; and then there are two 6s. there is a   7 and there's an 8. so there's an 8 and 
there's a 9 - yeah i think this is correct. all right   so let's do it - so in fast forward i'm sure. 
[very fast speech]  so we get the same thing. this is maybe a 
little prettier than this, i don't know? you   imagine like contour lines right that the're that 
they're climbing up and this is very sort of like   you know flat plane climbing up and these are 
all a little bit more wonky somehow. 
- (i know you) (do this as a bit of a side business; is 
anyone buying that? has anyone bought them?)  uhh i don't know. i couldn't tell you. i mean who is the 
market? i mean there's certainly the marketing-   the market of like you know sort of gamer types. 
probably this is not terribly popular with the   gamer types but there's also you know math 
nerds and some of them like these weird-  (i know a few math nerds. all right, all right)
- so these are 4-sided dice right? you   can see, well this is a 1 and that's a 4
and that's a 3 but the shape is kind of interesting. so what is the shape for? so maybe 
you've seen things that look like this; these   not dice but these were i think produced 
by maths gear, so matt parker's thing. 
- (ah, shapes of constant width) they are shapes of constant width. so if you 
have a book you put on there then you get a   nice- yeah yeah got to get a nice book. 
- (okay so all right a book-)
- and then you go- oh. okay, lovely. same thing with these. so um-
so there is a bit of a story here and where   these came from and the shape and all that sort of stuff. 
- (so the book is always staying at the)  (same height above the table?)
- yes yes. so if you did 
this with ball bearings or spheres then you would   expect that yeah it just sort of smoothly rolls 
around and it's the same thing with with these   shapes. even though these are not spheres it still 
stays con- constant height and and stable and it   does so for these things as well. so i first 
heard about these like constant width 4-sided   dice on the grand illusions channel, they had some 
of these dice that somebody had 3d printed. this   guy, shaun bentley had 3d printed these shapes and 
so we said, oh that's a great idea, why don't we   mass produce these things rather than 3d printing;
so you know we talked to him and and he gave us   our blessing and and so on and so forth. now there's 
interesting things going on with the shapes; so if   you look at the maths gear tetrahedra, the reuleaux 
tetrahedra and these constant width things, not   all the edges are the same as each other. maybe 
you can see like this shape is kind of sharp   whereas this one is rounded; and that you know 
works for the constant width property but   it's not good for the fairness of the die right?
the- it's got to have all the symmetry and the   edges that are different you know in principle 
it's going to be easier to roll over this edge   than it would be to roll over a sharp edge. so 
these are not going to work. so this guy shaun came up with a constant width shape that has all 
the edges being the same. so you know they're all   rounded in the same way, rather than some of 
them sharp and some of them rounder and so this   you know this works and this was the design he 
went with. and we looked at this and thought, well   hold on a second there's another problem that we 
need to solve. when you're making a dice for mass   produced injection molding, part of the process 
the mold comes together in multiple parts and   the plastic kind of squeezes out there's like 
little bits of rough stuff. and they put it in   like a tumbler to smooth out all the you know 
the imperfections and make your nice you know   shiny dice. problem is that the tumbling process is 
going to do different things to that sharp corner   at the top than it is to other places on the die. 
the shape would be changed different amounts in   different places in the tumbling process so we 
couldn't use it. i should i should mention   by the way these are prototypes, these are not- 
this is this is sneak preview, nobody nobody has   ever seen these before. hopefully soon these 
will be out, these are the prototypes. so what are   the- what are the things we need? we need the 
the shape to be symmetric, it needs this you   know all the faces all the sides - the shape is- 
well it doesn't have faces anymore, it's sort of rounded. but it needs to have that that same 
tetrahedral symmetry. it can just be a sphere   and the the the edges needed and the corners 
needed to be rounded off. and so we asked around   a little bit and eventually somebody put us 
onto this paper or by brendan guilfoyle and   wilhelm klingenberg - sorry if i'm messing 
up their names - which did exactly what we needed.   so 'on c2 smooth surfaces of constant width'. so 
c0 just means continuous, yeah, if it wasn't c0   then like there'd be jumps or like it will 
be broken apart. c1 means that the tangent   directions match up; it doesn't look sharp 
but it's not as smooth as it could be. and   c2 is saying that if you imagine like the 
the graph of x cubed has got that nice sort of   smooth thing down there, that's the kind of 
smoothness that you're getting. so it's not   completely completely smooth but it's visually 
um you know quite smooth. and and the hope was   that with the tumbling process, because it's got 
this extra smoothness it wouldn't get tumbled   down so much. and yeah somewhere in here in 
this paper eventually there's a nice picture   of exactly what we needed. oh, this is looking 
good, that's looking familiar right? there's all   kinds of fancy stuff in here and then yeah this 
is this is like right; this is what we need. spend   a little bit of time trying to read their paper 
and figured out and there was like, why don't i   just email them? and turns out they were like, oh yeah, 
oh please you know have have a go at this and   then so they gave us the code and then- and 
then here they are. and hopefully available soon. thanks for watching this video. be sure to 
check out the video description for links to   more of our videos about dice, more videos with 
henry, and also links to the dice you've seen   today. you can buy them, you can check them out. i'll 
include all the information you could want. again,   that's in the video description. 
- there's a drill as well with and it's got- it uses that triangle...