(linus humming halo theme song) - yeah that's right my friends! it's been six long years since we wore the armor and suited up. but now at long last, halo infinite is arriving
to herald a new dawn of spartan combat. or at least the beta's here. and frankly speaking, it's already off to a pretty rocky start, beginning with of course
the name of the game. microsoft has proven once more that they have no idea
how to number things. one, two, three, four, five, infinity. in all seriousness though, there were some technical issues
delaying the flight window, but now it's ready. i'm ready. the camera crew's ready. and there's just one remaining question. are you ready? for this segue to today's
sponsor, seasonic. never skimp on getting
a quality power supply for your current or next computer build. check out seasonic to find
award winning power supplies, and try their wattage calculator to see which one is right for you. we're gonna have that linked down below. (upbeat electronic music) now admittedly, i haven't
played a ton of halo since combat evolved
launched back in 2001. although i did play the halo
2 single-player campaign when they eventually launched it on pc. so i didn't actually live
through a lot of the dark times. and i'm really excited. i mean, this is the first
halo game in six years, and it's the first time in six years that i've really had any
time for gaming anyway. so yeah, that's an appropriate disclaimer. there are some issues. this is a technical demo. there's matchmaking
problems in multiplayer, which by the way, is the only
thing available right now. there's collision issues. there's pop-in issues if you're running low details
with a wide field of view. now, as with most betas, the build we're playing on
today is actually an older one. so if you see anything that
looks super unpolished, there's a good chance that
it's already actually fixed in preparation for the final release, which should be sometime
this holiday season. let's go ahead and have
a look at the settings that ploof has dialed in because this right here is the quintessential
steam hardware survey average gaming pc. we've got an nvidia geforce gtx 1060, and we've got it running
at about, well low. really? is that what we needed
to make it playable? wait, we scaled to 8k? this is what it defaulted to? - [david] why? - why? why would it default to 200% resolution? okay, let's go to- let's go to something reasonable. oh my god. it changes every
time you touch the slide. i can't- you can't go to 1920 by 1080
if you have a 4k display. it's borderless fullscreen again. where's normal fullscreen support? 1920 by 1018? - [david] what?
- it's cause of the bottom on the task bar. - apparently all we're getting
is slayer on live fire. so that's what we're going to play. okay. we're getting 51 fps now though. okay. my poor team. oh. they got dead. wait, that's an enemy? oh. we're both blue! - [david] what did you
think the red outline is? - i had no idea. i mean, that's literally the basics. red versus blue, okay? this is definitely playable. once they sort things out a little bit this is going to be fine on a 1060. and honestly, i mean looks
good considering it's at low. some games you turn
down to low, like apex, apex looks like poo on low. i mean the idea for a game developer should be that when you turn it down from high to medium to low, it doesn't go from
looking good to terrible, it goes from looking new to looking older. that should be the objective. and i think they've done a
pretty good job of that here. it doesn't look like a bad ugly game, it just looks like an older one. i gotta give credit, these
bots are a lot better than like a cs:go bot. like they zigzag walk and stuff. how you doing buddy? wow, it ducked. it freaking ducked! it got hit in the head and ducked. look at that. how neat is that? how do i tell how i'm doing? oh, i'm terrible. i have one kill? wait, is that even right? i want to kill! wait, what? i did melee. oh, no, i pressed the wrong button, i pressed right click. (linus laughing) that's normally my binding. come on. yes! i killed a bot! how many deaths do i have? three? - okay. if i can at least get a positive kill to death ratio, i will consider that to be acceptable. damn. damn! you know what? i'm actually
feeling pretty good. movement feels good. guns feel good. it feels like halo. and on our 1060, once we got past-ish some
technical weirdness, it's smooth. we're getting like a pretty
steady 50 fps in game. that's with a bunch of
character models running around. i think this is going
to be a great experience for someone running a couple
of years old graphics card. i mean, i guess 1060 is
like four years old now, isn't it?
- [nick] yeah. as for the cpu we're running, we wanted something good, but not brand new. so we went with a 2700x, and as long as you've
got anything intel's made in the last five or six years, or anything amd's made since ryzen 2000, you are going to be in really good shape. let's kick it up a notch? - [nick] yeah. 2060? - yeah, let's go to a 2060. oh, let me tell you microsoft about the experience with the ui. go look at any other game. literally any other game and just clone what they're doing, cause it'll be better than this. this is terrible. like this is embarrassing. i can't say that i'm too confident that they'll fix it though, because the master chief
collection's ui is atrocious. i just changed it to 1920 by 1080, and i'm not convinced
anything actually changed. there's no fullscreen,
like proper fullscreen, there's only borderless fullscreen. oh, escape does go back. that's just not documented. okay. we're at 60 fps now. my ally is shooting me while he's being attacked by a bad guy. - [david] get the kill. no! - terrible. oh man. c'mon! finally. ah man, they move around so much. stop it! - [david] they have really good bots. - yeah, the bots are pretty good. oh, this is hilarious. the victory screen is scaled for 4k, but i'm running at 1080. okay. let's have a look
at battle pass stuff. play any matches, capture an enemy flag. and then what? challenges get you... complete all weekly challenges to get a stone green armor coating. that moment when you game-ify the game. so then you can level up, which will give you
things like cool glasses. what is this? different color schemes. remember in halo 1, how you could just
change your color palette like by default.
- [nick] yep. - i remember. i've been gone for so long. hey, i got to be at the
beginning of the match this time. c'mon!
- [david] yes! - no! these really are good bots. it feels good though. it feels good. i like the sounds. sound is good. this is a little low sensitivity for this size of mouse pad, but. got him. hey, come over here. - [david] nice. - plasma pistol's not bad. projectile speed definitely
better than that carbine. i really like the uncluttered
look of the maps though. like finding enemies
is not like, you know, who knows better what all
decals on the map look like, it's just, oh yeah, there's bad guys. bang, bang. that's definitely my preferred style. i'm a little disappointed at
performance with the 2060. i'm on medium settings and
i'm getting as low as 45 fps. that is not what i'd like to see, but... oops. it's also very playable like this. that's always a good sign when i forgot that i'm supposed
to be benchmarking a game and i just started playing it. it's fun. like there's a big
difference between 45 steady and 45 to 72 like dipping around and going all over the place. - [announcer] steaktacular. - steaktacular? what even is that? all right. i like it. this performance blows. - [nick] 3070?
- yeah let's go to a 3070 and see if we can actually
even run this thing at high with a top of the line graphics card. well, top-ish. we're at 65 fps in the menu. um, let's see what we can do here. i will settle for borderless. well, we should be able to run 4k. 35 fps in menu on medium details. these freaking poses man, look at this. are they self-aware? cause that's what i need to
know to accept those poses. okay, we're at 4k medium, and we're getting about 30 to 40 fps. and that's on a 3070. at the best of times, this is a $600 graphics card. right now it's worth well over a grand. i mean, "worth." ooh, there's a rolling grenade. is that live? - [nick] sometimes grenades de-sync. - [linus] sometimes
grenades de-sync, you say? - [nick] yeah, it's a known issue. - ugh, i keep tabbing to change weapons! i'm changing that. i am not doing well this time. and it crashed. i swear i didn't rage quit. that was... (laughing) oh god. it's so slow! - [nick] oh, it tracks
them like a needler. - oh, that's interesting. okay. oh, it does good damage. okay, so you don't even have to aim. it really is halo. (nick and david laughing) okay, you gotta kinda lean
towards them a little bit. - [david] ooh!
- [nick] heatwave, heatwave! - [david] what was that?
- [linus] what was what? - [nick] heatwave gun. - [david] kill this guy
and go back behind him. - [linus] i'm gonna try. - [nick] get him!
- [linus] where's the... - [david] yeah! - [linus] what's this?
- there you go, heatwave! - [linus] oh.
- ooh. - hi there. how you doing, buddy? what the crap? what even just happened? (laughing) okay, why don't we crank it
and just see what happens? ultra. we're going to ultra, boys. and the frame rate is the same. it's a little worse. i was really happy with how decent the textures
looked at low though. - [nick] yeah, no, even at low
it still looks really good. - yeah it looks good. is it gonna crash? is this it? music's still going. i want to try the needler. nice fast reload on the needler. pretty good projectile speed. this looks pretty sick. - [david] that's a good needler. - yeah. this might be a
little bit of an op needler and they have to get some
balance tweaks going here. practice against moving targets. okay. this is not a great... can i go out there? okay. based on what i've experienced so far in terms of the range that
combat is going to take place, holy crap this thing is terrible. do you guys see that spread? like it is not even inside
the circle sometimes. not my favorite in-game shotgun. hold on. we're going to do one more. i wanna- i wanna try the sniper rifle. i'm one of those douchebags that's not actually good at sniping, but i go grab the sniper rifle and then i just stand there being useless. see that? yeah, not very good. oh, hi how you doing? okay. (linus fake cries) - [nick] nice.
- all right. got one last one. new high score. yes! okay. apparently i'm a master though. and the game crashed. ugh, that's okay. that's okay. really, a release like this is not about the game play or balance, or even really the guns. a release like this is about microsoft
collecting telemetry data so they can get some idea of, okay this weird edge case that we've seen where the game crashes, how common is that? what kind of hardware
are those people running? what are they going to be doing
when it causes that crash? so that the final release should
in theory be more polished. so i've seen enough to know that they've clearly
got a lot of work to do, but i've also seen enough to know that i'm actually kinda
jacked for this game. so big thank you to microsoft for giving us an early look at the game, along with anyone else
who signed up for it, we didn't get any kind
of special treatment. thanks to you guys for watching. and... thanks brilliant for
sponsoring today's video. brilliant teaches you by having you solve puzzles and problems on their website and app. they've got over 60 interactive courses in math, science, and computer science, and it is just a great way to
achieve your goals in stem. their courses are designed
to puzzle and surprise you, with one course that a lot
of you will probably like, called mathematic fundamentals. is it possible to drag the number tiles so that every row and column adds up to the target sum beside it? find out by giving it a try today. just go to brilliant.org/linustechtips to try it for yourself. the first 200 people to
click on the link down below are going to get 20% off. if you guys enjoyed this video cause you love seeing me frustrated by early, game breaking bugs, why not check out our first
look at cyberpunk 2077? the key difference is that that one wasn't six months
from release when we tried it. (linus humming)