- i'm gonna spend the next 50 hours buried alive in this coffin. probably the dumbest thing i've ever done. boys seal me up! welcome to my coffin! i have a camera here,
here, down by my feet. (loud thumping) oh, stop! - all right, we're set. (dramatic music) - boys, can you hear me? - [chandler] yes, over. - burry me alive. - all right. (ominous music) - this is terrifying. oh my gosh! (chris huffing) i can like feel the weight
of the dirt on top of me. - [chris] hey bud! - hi! - [chris] this is the last
time you're gonna see us on the outside world. - good. (intense dramatic music) (excavator engine roaring) - [karl] oh, here it comes! - i heard karl yell here it comes. so i assume something's about to happen. - [chris] yeah! is it full? - [chandler] no! - all right, time-lapse! (intense dramatic music) - [karl] lower it a bit. - [chris] drop! i'm getting it off. there you go, it's off. - the tombstone has been placed? - yeah! very, very gently placed. (tombstone smashing) - that means the challenge
has officially begun. i'm going to spend the
next 50 hours buried alive. i'm terrified (laughs). can you approve i'm buried
underground currently? (feet thumping) or step on me, that works as well. gentlemen, go look at
the trunk of tareq's car. - why are we going to your car? - [karl] guys, i don't think that's... (electric spark rattling) (chandler yelling) (chris yelling) - if for whatever reason i get out early, you guys get to tase me. - what part of your
body do you want tased? - [jimmy] i don't know. where
do people normally get tased? - the balls. - is it bad that i kind
of already have to pee? it's literally only been like an hour. whenever i do these challenges,
people are always like, "fake! you didn't show us
how you used the bathroom." listen, you guys wanna know? this is how. i'll be back in a second. i feel much better now. - all right, jimmy. (gentle music) goodnight, jimmy. and in case you're curious on how jimmy isn't dying right now, we have an ac that goes
straight to his coffin, we're monitoring him at all times and we have a medic on standby. - [medic] he'll be fine. - until he gets tased. (upbeat music) - good morning, gamers. it looks like i survived the
first night period alive. there's a fly down here. how did you get down here? i'm buried alive! - hey jimmy! wake up jimmy! - wake up! - guys, it's almost 1 pm, i've been up. - wake up! - if i respond, it's
only gonna encourage it. - okay, i have to pee,
i'm peeing on your grave. - i'd rather you not. what if it seeps into my coffin. (slow bouncy music) chris. chris, don't pee on me. - hey jimmy, can you hear this? (water pouring) - is he actually peeing on me, karl? - it's a much worse noise
than a taser, jimmy. - what are you gonna do about it? you're in a hole, nerd. no more talking to you. bye! all right. now we don't have to
deal with him anymore. (upbeat music) - i thought i'd be
getting emotional support. maybe they'd play me a book
through the walkie-talkie but no, they're just peeing on my grave. (upbeat music) hey chris? - [chris] yeah. - what does it feel like to stand? i can't remember. - well, currently right now
it feels like i'm sitting but i'll let you know
when i start to stand. - i hate him. - hey karl. - yeah, what's up chris? - do you want to go get like a drink and maybe some pizza or something? - jimmy, do you want anything? (walkie-talkie beeping) - we can win this war, man. we can be way more annoying. (karl laughs) (cell phone ringing) - see? they never stop. they're so annoying. shut up. - oh hello jimmy, there's a train coming. (train clacking) - if you open up the
back of the walkie-talkie you'll see batteries. and if you just take those batteries out, the idiots' noise stops. i bet they still think i'm listening. [music] i'm a gummy bear [music] - today i'm gonna be pooping
inside of a small box, nine-foot underground. hey, jimmy, answer! - is chris jumping on me? let me put the batteries back in. i pulled the batteries
out of the walkie-talkie like 30 minutes ago. - that's cheating! - i heard the fly. did i tell you about my
pet fly i met last night? - no. tell me about it. i'm interested. - you're not interested. you're gonna cut me off the moment i. (walkie-talkie exploding) (upbeat music) - (groans) i wanna move
around, but i can't. why are coffin so small? just trapped in a box deep underground. i think it's really starting to hit me. i'm gonna go explore the
other side of the coffin. wish me luck. (head thuds) ow! all right. let's make this journey. (various objects clacking) (groans) can you see me? yo, can i pick this
camera up with my toes? oh my gosh. yeah, that was the coolest
thing i've ever done. i made it to the other side of the coffin and all that's here is a pillow. - hey jimmy, i don't know
if i like this new angle. all we can see is your feet and it kind of grosses me out. - and we can see a couple of pee bottles. - you don't think that's a great video, just feet n' pee? - we miss other side jimmy. - so what you're telling
me is you want me to go to the other side, 'cause you missed me? (groans) i did it. when i tried to turn around it was like very narrow on the other end so it was a lot harder. i almost started panicking, but we made it. - jimmy, jimmy! we have to tell you
something really important before we leave. - tell me. (karl laughing) - did he just leave without telling me? - yo jimmy, i just wanna let you know all of the monitoring equipment is now officially inside of this truck because it's about to start raining and also a tornado is coming. - wait, a tornado is coming? - yeah, but you should
probably be safe down there, to be honest. - i don't know if anyone's
ever researched this, but can you google at being buried alive
during a tornado is safe? - we're googling it right now. hot russian singles in our area. - hey! - i feel like you need
a little bit more help to make sure that you
stay the entire 50 hours. so we're just gonna
remind you of one thing. (taser clicking) - wait guys, stop, stop. i feel it. stop. stop. - [man] huh? (upbeat music) - hey jimmy, listen here. - what karl? - you've officially made
it underground 24 hours. - wait, really? - so how do you feel after being in underground for 24 hours? - my back hurts. starting to feel claustrophobic. bored outta my mind. i smell pretty bad. i also smell the urine. i ate all my beef jerky, vanilla wafers. i don't feel too good. - this is all the controls
for the lighting inside of it. (slow bouncy music) - what the heck? you guys can change the
color of these things? oh, they're off. hey, turn 'em back on. - chandler, turn it back on. oh! - [jimmy] well, that's not even funny. - i don't know how to do it! - this one's kind of cool, can we keep this? no. oh yeah, there we go, pink's better. just vibing in my coffin. (upbeat music) - hi. while jimmy's asleep,
we're gonna tunnel down to him. - why are you whispering? he's like six feet below us. - oh yeah. i guess that's a good point. (excavator rattling) yeah. look at that! (karl and chris screaming) - we're gonna find jimmy no time. hey, let's keep digging
during this time-lapse. (upbeat music) chris, how on earth can we not find jimmy? look at this hole. it's almost bigger than
the one we put him in. - yeah, it is. it's actually bigger than
the one we put him in. - [jimmy] hey karl. - hey, what's up? - i know you're trying to dig to me. i can literally hear you guys. - you hear us through the walkie-talkie. - no, i literally hear you to my right. - to you're right... you'd say what degree
angle from the right? - i'd say go to your
left and you'll be there. i completely made that up. i have no idea where they are (laughs). - [chris] that feels like
i'm hitting something. - [karl] you hear that? (palm thumping) - [karl] is it actually him? - [chris] yeah. yeah. we found jimmy! (chris and karl laughs) - how long did it take
you to dig that hole? - [chris] about an hour. one hour. - why? - [chris] i miss seeing you. - leave it to my weird friends to dig a giant tunnel down to my coffin so they can say hi to me. all right. so why did you guys dig this hole? what's the point? - we're gonna send you a message. - all right. i mean, you just sent it, why'd you have to dig a hole? - totally not because we missed you and wanted to see you again. it's 'cause we wanted to do this. (walkie-talkie beeping) - oh shoot. i didn't even see. did you see that? they dug that hole to put
penis on the side of my coffin. is there anything else or was that it? - what do you mean is that it? - is that all you're doing
with the giant hole you dug? - yeah. - what do you guys like 12? - yeah. (upbeat music) - holy cow. it's filled
and there's a ton of stuff. - power of editing, baby! it's crazy that jimmy's just
right underneath us right now. and i'm about the light of fire on top of him. - just a bunch of dudes hanging out. it's me, we got chris. jimmy's right. in about 20 hours, we're gonna
be able to use this again and get him outta there. - i think we're just gonna
camp over jimmy's body. we'll see you in the morning. - all right, gamers. my back and side hurt. (yawns) i'm really tired. i'll see you guys tomorrow. it's literally 2 pm and karl and chris are still asleep. just all alone at the burial site. my friends don't even
care enough to visit me. only nolan would come to my grave. - it's like a ghost town around here. they just left you here in your grave. - well, at least they slept well. - jimmy, i got a question for you. have you pooped? - i have to poop really bad, but i've decided just to hold it. i have less than 10 hours left and i'm not pooping in this coffin. i literally rather be tased. - you tell me you've held
your poop for 40 hours. that's kind of a feat. - thank you. i'm the opposite of chandler. - so look, it rained. the tents are destroyed. of course we didn't sleep out here but jimmy still spent it underground. - hey. (both chuckling) he slept vertically and i slept in my car sitting straight up. who's the real winner here? - i'm bored. so i'm gonna give one of you that hits the subscribe button in the next seven days, $10,000. if you are subscribed, don't
unsubscribe and resubscribe. that does nothing. just like go grab your
mom's account or something. mom's like our videos. chris! - what? - i want to get out. i'm tired of being in here. just tase me. - oh wait, really? actually? - no idiot! why would i get out with three hours left? what am i stupid? the 50 hours i'm spending in
this coffin feels like a week. i'm starting to get used to being surrounded by
thousands of pounds of dirt. i just noticed the one video
where i don't wear this merch is the video where the shirt is just plastered in every shot. blur this, put
shopmrbeast.com on top of it. now go to shopmrbeast.com
and buy something. thank you. hello? is that you i hear digging, karl? - yeah man, we're digging right now. - no you're not. that was sarcastic. - i'll actually start digging. i'm sorry, i wasn't digging and now i am. (walkie-talkie clattering) (foot thudding) (both laughs) (upbeat music) - hey jimmy. - yes, chris? - we've got a surprise for you. - tell me if you could
hear this, all right. - what are you doing? - oh wait, i don't have a lighter. can you get a lighter? (walkie-talkie crashing)
- i got you. - i'm gonna... - is this good for a lighter? - yeah, that'll... (karl laughing) (fireworks booming) - are you sledge hammering the ground? - [chris] yeah! whoa! - oh, it's firework. - [chris] the outside
world is crazy, jimmy! - celebrating one hour left! - whoa! - could you smell the smoke down there? - i actually can. - we think it got in your
ventilation system, sorry. (both laughs) - wait. really? - yeah, we're probably not
gonna fire off anymore though. don't worry. - [jimmy] based on how you said that i'm assuming you have one
more and it's really big. thanks for letting me
know what you're doing. - [karl] oh shoot. - [chris] oh. - it's like, there's an
earthquake happening. (karl laughing) hey, film it, i wanna watch it. oh wait, we're probably filming
it for the video. nevermind. i have three minutes and
then i can leave this box. it's bringing tears to my eyes. i'm so happy. 3, 2, 1. it has officially been
50 hours buried alive. it's been 50 hours, get me outta here! - we're doing it. my entire coffin's literally vibrating every time he hits the ground. - i'm sure it won't happen again. (excavator rattling) - it happened again. (upbeat music) the challenge ended 10 minutes ago. they're still digging me up. hurry up. - [chris] love you. - oh, i see a shovel. i see a shovel. - [chris] jimmy! - oh, there it is. there it is. (chris huffing) i haven't seen the outside in so long. oh my gosh. i'm so happy right now, i'm crying. oh my gosh. - [chris] jimmy! - hi.
- hey. - there he is. - get me outta here. - [karl] oh my god it's hot in there. (chandler and chris groaning) - [chris] oh my god,
look at the pee bottles. - [chandler] you actually smell. - it's almost like we
don't fake challenges. we do 'em. - [chris] oh my god. you need to burn those clothes. - that was stupid. i have a massive headache
and i'm starving. goodbye. (all laughs) get that camera outta my face. [music] mr. beast 6,000. [music] (bomb exploding)