hello, in this episode we're going to look
at the 4 different types of loops. let's start with the most common one, the
for loop. to create a for loop, we write the keyword
'for', followed by a pair of parentheses, and then a pair of curly brackets. now inside the parentheses we have three sections,
separated by semicolons. the first section is the initializer, the
second is the condition, and the third is the iterator. the initializer section is where we create
a local variable, usually an integer, which is conventionally called 'i', but you can
make it anything you want of course, and we initialize it to some value. in the condition section we then state the
condition that must be true in order for the loop to run. so for example, we might say: run while i
is less than 10. finally, in the iterator section, we can modify
the value of our variable, so for example we might have i++, meaning i increments by
1 each time. between the 2 curly brackets we can now write
the body of our loop, which i'll make simply print out the value of i. if we run this code, we'll see that it prints
out the values from 0 to 9. so if we think through this step by step,
it should be clear how the loop works. first the variable i is created and set to
0. the condition i<10 is true, so the code in
the body of the loop runs once, printing out 0. then the iterator section runs, increasing
the value of i from zero to one. the condition is still true, so the code runs
again. this repeats until i is increased to 10, at
which point the condition is no longer true, so the loop terminates, and the code resumes
running from outside the loop. this sort of loop is often useful for setting
the values in an array. for example if we're wanting to store the
first 20 powers of 2, we could create a new int array with a size of 20, and then loop
from int i = 0, while i < powersoftwo.length, i ++. remember that, since arrays are indexed starting
at zero, their last element has an index of one less than their length, which is why we
have the loop run while i < powersoftwo.length, and not while is i <= to powersoftwo.length. now, inside the loop we can simply have powersoftwo,
with an index of i, = 2^i, using the mathf.pow method. of course, we don't have to start the loop
at zero and inrement by one each time, although that is how its usually used; as an arbitrary
example we could: initialize int i = 100; and then while i > -80; decrease i by 30. alright, now how about looping through multidimensional
arrays... say we have an 8x8 integer array, representing
a chess board, and we want to set it so that light squares have a value of 0, and dark
squares have a value of 1. to achieve this, we can use two nested for
loops. so we start with one for loop to determine
the row index, so i'll make a loop with int row = 0, row < board.getlength(0), row ++. note this getlength method, which allows us
to specify which dimension of the array we want to know the length of. so index 0 refers to the first dimension. inside this loop, we can then have another
loop, with int column starting at 0; while column < board.getlength(1); column ++; so hopefully this makes sense: the outer loop
starts with row equal to 0, and then the inner loop begins, so we get a column value of 0,
then 1,2,3,4,5,6,7, after which the inner loop terminates, and so the outer loop gets
to run again, and row is increased to 1. this process repeats until row is no longer
less than 8, at which point the outer loop terminates. to actually assign to the array, we can say
board, with an index of row, column, is equal to (row+column) mod 2. remember that the modulus operator will divide
the first number by the second number, and return the remainder. this operation achieves the result we want. now the second type of loop we'll be looking
at in this video is the 'while' loop. a while loop simply runs while a certain condition
is met. so perhaps we have a bool called doingsomething,
which we set to true. we can then say while(doingsomething), and
now this loop will run until the doingsomething bool is set to false. so writing while (true) {}, is one way of
creating an infinite loop. now there's nothing a while loop can do, that
a for loop can't, and vice versa. for example, the following code will make
a while loop work like a for loop, but it's not as concise as using a for loop. in the same way, if we leave out the intializer
and iterator sections of the for loop, and just make use of the condition section, then
we've got the same behaviour as a while loop, but the syntax is kind of strange with these
two extra semicolons. so you can see that both loops serve a specific
purpose. in general, we use a for loop when a specific
number of iterations is required; and we use a while loop when the number of iterations
is unknown, or difficult to calculate. we've already seen a practical example of
where a for loop is useful, that being assigning values to an array; but you can imagine many
more, such as spawning a certain number of enemies into a game, and so on. it's more difficult to imagine cases where
you don't know how many times you want a loop to run; but as one concrete example -- the
first step in some 2d dungeon generation algorithms is to start with a bunch of rectangles for
each room, and then to keep nudging the away from one another until they no longer overlap. obviously you can't know in advance how many
iterations that will take, which is why the while loop is an appropriate choice. we'll see another practical example of while
loops next episode. the third type of loop is very closely related
to the while loop, and is called the do while loop. how this works, is you write the keyword do,
folowed by the body of the loop, and only after the body do you write the condition. the behaviour is exactly the same as a while
loop, except it only checks the condition at the end of each iteration of the loop. as a result, if the condition is false to
start with, the code in the loop will still run once before terminating. i've found that i very seldom need to use
a do while loop, but it's good to know it exists for those rare occasions. the final type of loop is called the foreach
loop, and this is used to iterate over a collection of items, such as an array, or a list. we've already seen how a for loop can be used
to iterate over a collection, but for situations when you're not assigning to the collection,
but simply want to retrieve the values, then the foreach loop is a little bit more concise. say we have an array of strings, called possiblenames. the syntax for the foreach loop is as follows:
first the keyword foreach, and then, inside parentheses we declare a variable of the correct
type - in this case string - to hold the value. i'll call it name. we then indicate that we're looping through
each element in the possiblenames array. if we now print out the name variable, you
can see that with each iteration, it has been assigned the next value in the array. note that you cannot now there are two keywords you might sometimes
find useful when working with loops, and these work the same way for any of the four types
of loops. these keywords are 'continue' and 'break'. continue simply skips one iteration of a loop. so for example if we have a for loop printing
the numbers from 1 to 10, and i write if (i==5) {continue}, then it will skip the rest of
the code in the body of the loop for that iteration, and so the ouput will be 1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9,10. the break keyword can be used to terminate
a loop prematurely. so if i add the lines, if (i==7) {break},
then the loop will immediately terminate at that point, and so the output will be 1,2,3,4,6. as an example of when this keyword might be
useful, imagine we have some game in which the player attempts to open a locked door. we might loop through each of the slots in
the player's inventory, to see if that slot contains the correct key for the door. if we find the key, however, there's no need
to keep searching, so we can use break to terminate the loop. alright, to recap:
for loops are used when a specific number of iterations is required, whereas
while loops are used when the number of iterations is unknown. do while loops are the same as while loops,
but the code inside them will always run at least once, even if the condition is false
from the outset. foreach loops can be used to retrieve elements
one-by-one from a collection. the continue keyword can be used to skip to
the next iteration in a loop, and the break keyword can be used to terminate the loop. alright, that's everything for this episode. until next time, cheers!