it is a question that every developing 
country in the world wants to know:   how can we upscale our economy? 
how can we make more competitive,   technologically advanced product 
that everyone else wants? the early 1970s gave the people of 
taiwan such a challenge. times were   changing. the island needed to adapt in order 
to survive in a new world full of challenges.   its economy then was made up mostly 
of agricultural products and simple   electronic assembly - exports of low 
value and would be easily replaced. in this video, i want to briefly review how the 
government created a world-class next-generation   manufacturer, the plan they followed, and 
what lessons we can take away as a result. after previous attempts to build a 
world-competitive chemical industry failed,   the government saw the semiconductor 
industry as the next logical step   for their electronics assembly industry. at the time, the united states was the global 
leader in semiconductor manufacturing with japan   a small, secondary player. taiwan hosted a few 
foreign factories - general instruments set one up   all the way back in 1966 - but like i mentioned, 
those were just for low-value assembly tasks. in trying to rise up in the 
semiconductor value chain,   taiwanese companies would find themselves lagging 
far, far behind the cutting edge. nobody could   see them as a player in the semiconductor 
industry. nobody would buy their products. if you have ever tried to create something 
world-class from a position of weakness,   you would know just how difficult it is.   looking back on it now, success was definitely 
not guaranteed. a lot had to go just right. within the ministry of economic affairs, a 
debate raged about the best way to overcome   these challenges and help taiwanese companies 
be competitive in semiconductor manufacturing. sun yun-suan, minister of economic affairs 
and a waishengren born in shandong,   backed entrance through the 
development of companies and industry. wu ta-you, another waishengren and then 
director of the national science council,   argued for funding basic electric engineering 
sciences relating to semiconductors   in order to "root" the industry in taiwan. chiang ching-kuo, then premier of the 
republic of china and chiang kai-shek's son,   sided with sun: "we should not spend 
our limited resources on basic research,   but should focus on applied 
research for industrial purposes."   the focus on applied research and practical skills 
would be a consistent theme in the work to come. in order to help private companies enter the 
technologically advanced and capital-intensive   industries, taiwan founded the institute 
for technology research institute   or itri. the intention for this publicly funded 
laboratory was to do applied science research   with the intention of eventually spinning 
off its projects as private companies. itri then founded a sub-committee specifically 
looking to tackle the problem of getting taiwanese   companies into the semiconductor industry. 
they eventually focused on inviting foreign   companies from the us or europe to teach 
the taiwanese people specific technologies. in other words, the famous technology 
transfer agreement that china uses with   so much controversy. seven companies were invited 
to bid for this contract and in 1976, rca won out   over other companies like general instruments 
and hughes. they were chosen not because their   technology was the most advanced, but because 
they were most willing and capable to teach it. per the agreement, rca invited a team of some 
30-40 engineers to their campus for a year   to teach them not just the 
raw science of semiconductors   but also management techniques 
and industrial knowledge.   in other words, the valuable meat and potatoes 
of everyday semi-manufacturing management. today, technology transfer agreements like the 
one itri used are controversial. but back in   the 1970s, this step did not attract so much 
attention for what appears to be two reasons: first, rca did not provide taiwan 
with its cutting edge technology.   it was a licensing agreement for something 
a few years behind the cutting edge.   but then a few years later, rca pulled out 
of the semiconductor industry altogether   and left taiwan with a license for all 
of its technologies. this was lucky. second and more critically, taiwan chose 
extremely wisely in which technology to   learn. the taiwanese asked to learn a tech called 
complementary metal oxide semiconductors, or cmos.   cmos technology at the time had not fully 
matured and its market was rather small.   but over time, it would grow into the dominant 
semiconductor manufacturing process technology. so basically, taiwan had acted 
the role of a venture capitalist   and chose to back a young horse 
that paid off in big, big way. most people know taiwan 
semiconductor manufacturing company,   and that tsmc founded the independent foundry 
model. but not so many people are aware   that tsmc was not taiwan's first big foundry. that 
would go to united microelectronics corporation,   umc, whose headquarters is across 
the street from tsmc in hsinchu. in 1980, erso took the knowledge 
that it gained from its time at rca   and spun off umc. umc acted like a traditional, 
vertically integrated semiconductor maker.   the government provided umc with the technology, 
helped recruit talent to fill the company's ranks,   and even closed its first deal. there were a few green shoots. umc 
soon became taiwan's most profitable   industrial manufacturer. but umc failed to 
be the flagship success the country wanted.   the company could not compete in the 
industry and found itself producing   low-level chips for toys and watches. they did 
their best, but the field was too competitive. erso would spin off two other companies looking 
to design chips, but both failed to take root and   were eventually acquired by competitors. many 
years had passed by then, but for little gain. tsmc's founding story is widely known and 
i won't spend time going over it here.   it is the first independent pure foundry, 
representing an innovative new business model that   disrupted the existing semiconductor market. but 
what's also true was that tsmc entered the market   with technology much more advanced than umc, 
which gave it a better head start in the market. this technology came from europe. 
the dutch corporation philips   (continuing a history of 
close dutch-taiwanese ties)   provided technological input on the 1.5 micron 
process that would make up tsmc's core service.   erso sourced the high-skilled taiwanese workers 
to properly use and operate this technology. the taiwan government invested some money 
but also wanted private investors involved   because it strongly believed in 
market oversight of its startups.   for its trouble, philips received 
a substantial chunk of tsmc's   shares. intel and texas instruments were 
offered a chance to invest but passed. taiwanese businessmen were offered - and 
in some occasions ordered - to invest.   most of them being old geezers, they didn't want 
to. wang yung-ching, the formosa plastics titan,   bought 5% of the company because the government 
made him. he sold all of his shares the second   year after the ipo for a cute sum and 
thus missed out on a $20 billion fortune. tsmc from the very beginning focused on the 
international export market. this is in part at   the government's request as well as a reflection 
of morris chang's american background. in america,   tsmc helped fuel the fabless semiconductor 
trend, and grew rich as a result. in retrospect, i think this part of tsmc's 
strategy turned out to be just as important   as the innovative business model. when 
umc started, it focused on the domestic   market - presumably because it felt 
that it could better survive there.   that's true. in the taiwanese domestic 
market, the government could help it out. yet as it turned out, the domestic 
market made umc too comfortable.   the company grew, but it 
did not become world-class.   in order to create a world class firm, you 
need to compete across the entire world. the government had a very specific strategy 
for developing the semiconductor industry.   small companies, clustered 
together, guided en masse   by the government. this is in contrast with 
south korea's strategy, where the government   would give lots of money to special companies 
(the chaebol) to go out and dominate a sector. the government looked to silicon valley as their 
guide. it founded a whole lot of small companies   and gave them a starting boost. it 
helped arrange resources for them,   including housing (with the hsinchu 
science park) and tax incentives   (semiconductor companies were taxed 
at just 1.5% in the early 90s). once those companies started, the taiwan 
government did not pump them with subsidies   nor try to shield them from competition. in other 
words, no protective tariffs so to give them a   captive domestic market. this is a failing of 
many administrations in latin america or europe   who try to create a domestic industry 
by banning foreigners from its markets. additionally, the government did not try to 
prop up a company once it had started to fail   or flounder. this is harder said than done, 
as many governments hate public failure. think   of how much hay the us public made out of the 
2011 solyndra bankruptcy. politicizing a normal   act of capitalism only makes governments 
more nervous about trying again next time. while the government did not play 
favorites with individual companies,   it did work to help the industry 
as a whole upon the existence of an   existential threat. for example, during a 
recent earthquake, the government ordered   its state owned utilities to provide water and 
power to the science park first over other areas. there are a few things that the taiwan 
government had nothing to do with.   a big one has to do with sourcing human 
talent. the 1980s and 90s saw a reverse   brain drain out of western countries into 
taiwan. this is attributed to two factors:   the booming taiwanese economy, and less so to a 
surge in chinese nationalism over the national   sovereignty of the daioyu islands. taiwan, 
identifying as the free china at the time,   benefitted from overseas chinese 
coming back to help the motherland as with all things in life, success is never 
preordained. the taiwan government had a strategy   but a lot of other things had to go 
right in order for it to work out.   yes they worked hard and deserve a lot of credit, 
but they also happened to be in the right place   at the right time. you can work 
hard, and come out with a meh.   just ask singapore. they tried to make their own 
tsmc just a few years later with iffy results. additionally, scholars studying the success of 
asia's technology companies continually emphasize   a couple commonalities: the need to partner 
with more advanced foreign technologies and   the need to "stress-test" your products by putting 
them out into the global competitive landscape. i think that's something many developing 
governments can take into consideration   as they seek to build new markets 
for themselves in the near future.