if you've ever ridden a bike, driven a car, or 
operated pretty much any other vehicle on earth,   there's a fact you've probably taken for granted: 
you can see farther than it takes to stop. within   the span between seeing a stationary hazard 
and colliding with it, you have enough time   to recognize it, apply the brakes, and come 
to a stop to avoid a collision. your sight   distance is greater than your stopping distance; 
it sounds almost silly, but this is a critical   requirement for nearly all human-operated 
machines. but it's not true for trains. engineers can see just as far as the rest of us, 
but the stopping distance of a fully laden freight   train can be upwards of a mile. that means if an 
engineer can see something on the tracks ahead,   it's often already too late. so, trains need a 
lot of safety infrastructure to make up for that   deficiency. for one: trains almost always have the 
right-of-way when they cross a road or highway at   the same level, or at grade. the cars have to 
wait; and, we use a litany of warning devices   at grade crossings to enforce that right-of-way 
and try to prevent collisions. in most cases,   these devices have to detect the impending arrival 
of a train and give motorists enough time to clear   the tracks or come to a stop. it sounds simple, 
but the engineering that makes that possible is,   i think, really interesting, and of course, i 
built some demonstrations to help explain. this   video is part of my series on railroads, so check 
out the rest after this if you want to learn more!   i'm grady, and this is practical engineering. 
today, we're exploring how grade crossings work. it's inevitable that roads cross railroad tracks,   and it's just not feasible to build a 
bridge in every case. in the us alone,   there are over 200,000 grade crossings where 
cars and trains must share the same space. a   car to a freight train is an aluminum can 
to a car: in other words, there's a pretty   big disparity in weight. so we've put a lot of 
thought into how to keep motorists, cyclists,   and pedestrians safe from the trains that can't 
swerve or stop for a hazard. you've probably   stopped for a train at a crossing, but you may not 
have consciously added all the safety features up. of course, the locomotives at the front of trains 
themselves have warning devices, including bells,   bright headlights, smaller flashing ditch 
lights, and most noticeably, the blaring   horn. the standard pattern at a crossing is two 
long blasts, one short blast, and one final long blast. but the crossing has warnings too. passive 
warning devices don't change with an approaching   train. they include a stop or yield signs, the 
crossbuck, which is the international symbol for   a railroad crossing, and sometimes a plate saying 
how many tracks there are so you know whether to   look for one train or many. another crossbuck is 
usually included as a pavement marking to make   sure you know what's coming up. many low-traffic 
crossings have only passive safety features,   leaving it up to the driver to look out for trains 
and proceed when it's safe. but, many crossings   demand a little less margin for error. that's 
when the active warning devices are installed. a typical grade crossing features both 
visual and audible warning signals that   a train is coming: red lights flash, a 
mechanical or electronic bell sounds,   and usually a gate drops across oncoming 
lanes. that seems pretty simple,   but there's quite a bit of complexity in the 
task and the consequences if anything goes   wrong are deadly. and the first part 
is just knowing if a train is coming. detecting a train is important for grade signals 
(it's also important for signaling trains about   other trains, but that's a topic for another 
video). it can be handled in a bunch of ways,   but the simplest take advantage of the 
electrical conductivity of the steel rails   and wheels themselves. a basic track circuit runs 
current up one rail, through a device called a   relay i'll explain in a minute, and back down 
the other rail. when a train comes along with   its heavy steel wheels and axles, it creates 
a short circuit, a preferential path for the   current in the track circuit. that deenergizes 
the relay, triggering all the connected warning   devices or signals. but why use an ordinary 
old diagram when you have a model tank car,   and an old railroad relay you got off ebay? let me show you how this works in a real demonstration. on the left, i've hooked up a power supply to the 
tracks, putting a voltage between the two rails.   on the right side, i've attached a relay. let's 
take a look inside it to see what it does. i love   playing with stuff like this. at its simplest, 
a relay is just an electromechanical switch: a   way to turn something on or off with an electrical 
signal. when i energize the coil (at the bottom),   it acts as an electromagnet, pulling a lever 
towards it. on the other side of the lever,   you can see the movement interacting with several 
electrical contacts. it's a little tough to see   here, but these contacts are like switches 
that can control secondary circuits. some   will be switched on when the relay is energized, 
and others are switched off. when the relay is   energized or de-energized, it basically flips 
the switch on these circuits, allowing various   devices, like lights, bells, and gate arms, to 
be activated or deactivated. in my case, i have   a simple battery and led to indicate whether 
or not a train is being detected on the rails. when there's no train, current passes through 
the relay from one rail to the other, energizing   the coil and holding the switch open so the led 
stays dark. when i put a railcar on the tracks,   the circuit changes. the wheels and axles create 
a short circuit (or shunt), a low-resistance   path for current to flow, essentially bypassing 
the relay. the coils in the relay de-energize,   closing the switch and lighting the led to warn 
any nearby tiny drivers that a train is present on   the tracks. it all depends on the train giving a 
preferential current path, which can be a problem   if there are leaves or rust on the rails. you can 
see how shiny and clean tracks look when they're   in frequent use. tracks that haven't seen a train 
in a day or more often impose a speed restriction   on the first train just in case there is rust that 
could affect the track circuits along the way. if all this circuitry seems a little convoluted 
to simply detect the presence of a train, it's   because of how this simple track circuit handles 
when things go wrong. let's say the track circuit   loses power; what happens? the relay deenergizes 
and falls back to the safest condition: assuming   a train is occupying the tracks. same thing if 
a rail cracks or breaks: the relay deenergizes   and the light comes on. this is called failsafe 
operation, or as the engineers prefer to call it:   fail to a known condition. if anything goes wrong, 
we want the default assumption to be that there's   a train coming because it might be true. fail 
safe operation isn't just in the track circuit   but the warning devices too. gates are actively 
held up with a powered brake. if power is lost,   they fall just by gravity alone. and the bells and 
lights are usually powered by banks of batteries   that can last for hours or days. most modern train 
detection systems have moved to more sophisticated   equipment, but relays are still used around the 
world because of their reliability. in fact,   this is called a "vital" relay because of all 
the features that make it extremely unlikely   to fail. you can see it acts slowly so that the 
inevitably noisy signal of a train shunting the   tracks can't cycle it on and off over and over; 
the armature assumes the de-energized position   even if the spring breaks; the contacts use 
special materials to keep from welding together;   and they're just really robust and beefy 
to make sure they last for decades. but even though assuming a train is coming 
is the safest way to manage problems,   it's not without its own challenges. warning 
devices depend on trust, and that's an extremely   tenuous confidence to ask of a motorist. we are 
naturally dubious of automated equipment.   every time a grade crossing activates and 
no train comes, that trust is eroded,   making motorists more likely to drive around the 
gates. so failing safe isn't enough; we also need   to make sure that failure is rare. current leaking 
between the tracks through water, plant growth,   or debris can falsely trigger warning devices. so 
railroads put a lot of time into keeping tracks   clean and the coarse gravel below the tracks 
(called ballast) freely draining to prevent   water from pooling up. in addition, even though 
maintenance workers can manually trigger devices   by shunting current across the tracks, this is 
done rarely to avoid impacts to road traffic. but maybe you've spotted a flaw in 
this simple track circuit. if not,   let me point it out. it's all to do with where 
you put the boundaries. if the circuit is   close to the crossing on either side, there's no 
warning time. by the time the train is detected,   the motorists wouldn't be able to clear the 
intersection or come to a stop. but if the   circuit extends far enough beyond the crossing 
to give adequate warning time, motorists will   have to sit and wait well after the train is 
past before it comes off the track circuit and   the warning devices turn off. so, instead of a 
single track circuit, most crossings use three:   two approaches and an island. let me show 
you how this works with another demo. now i have three track circuits set up with power 
going to each one. the rails are separated by a   small gap to avoid an inadvertent connection 
across the circuits. on actual railroads,   you can often identify insulated joints used to 
isolate the track circuits. they can be hard to   distinguish if the insulating material 
matches the profile of the rail itself,   but they're often painted to be easy to spot. 
a three-circuit configuration requires a little   bit of logic to decide when to turn on the warning 
devices and when to turn them off. so, despite the   fact that i have the coding skills of a civil 
engineer, i put this demo together using an   arduino microcontroller. the model railroad folks 
are surely shaking their heads at this. you can   see my leds as i roll the train along the tracks 
indicating which of the circuits is detecting the   presence of a train; from approach to island to 
other approach. and here's how the logic works. when a train is detected on either approach 
circuit, it immediately activates the warning   devices. the lights flash, bell sounds, and 
gates drop. as the train keeps moving toward   the crossing, it's detected on the island circuit 
too. the circuit effectively takes over control of   the warning devices. they'll stay on for as long 
as a train is occupying the island circuit. but   as soon as the island is unoccupied, the warning 
devices turn off (even though one of the approach   circuits is still detecting a train). you can see 
how just a little bit of logic makes it possible   to give some warning time for motorists before 
the train arrives at the intersection without   keeping them stuck behind gates after the train 
has passed. but, how much warning time is enough? in the us, the minimum requirement is 20 seconds 
between activation of the warning devices and the   arrival of a train, but it's typical to see 
30 or 45 seconds. you might think that the   more warning time the better, but it's a balance. 
too much warning time, and motorists might become   impatient and drive around the gates, so more time 
can actually make crossings less safe. for the   three-circuit example in the demonstration, the 
only control you have over warning time is where   to start the approach circuit. the farther away 
from the crossing it begins, the more warning time   you get. but the exact time depends on the speed 
of a train. since the approach is fixed in place,   a slow train will provide lots of warning 
time, and a fast train will provide less.   and a train stopped on an approach circuit before 
it even reaches the crossing will hold the gates   down indefinitely. so the next step in grade 
crossing complexity takes speed into account. i put a little acoustic distance sensor on my 
arduino so i can try to estimate the speed of   an oncoming train. the large cardstock cutout 
just helps my sensor to 'see' the train a little   better. the arduino measures the distance over 
time, converts that to an approximate speed,   and guesses how long it will take the train 
to arrive at the crossing. if the expected   arrival time is longer than the warning 
time i programmed in, nothing happens.   but if an arrival is expected within the 
warning time, the devices are activated. you can see if i approach the intersection 
slowly, the gates don't drop until i'm   relatively close to the crossing.  and if i speed things up, the 
gates drop when i'm farther away,  anticipating the faster arrival of the train. in 
theory, this type of sophistication means that   the warning time at a crossing will always be 
the same, no matter the speed of the train. but   it doesn't just solve that problem. if you 
have ever sat at a railroad crossing while   a train is stopped on the approach circuit, 
you know the frustration it causes. a grade   crossing predictor avoids the issue. you can 
see as i move my train toward the crossing,   the devices activate assuming the train will 
cross. but when i stop short, the predicted   arrival time goes effectively to infinity, 
and the controller opens the gates back up. of course, actual crossings don't use sonar to 
predict the speed of a train. in most cases,   they use track circuits with an alternating 
current. a train interacts with the frequencies   of the circuit as it travels along the rails, 
giving the sensors enough information to detect   the presence and speed. sometimes you can even 
hear these frequencies since they're often in   the audible range. ac track circuits are also used 
for electric train systems because they are less   susceptible to interference from the traction 
currents in the rails used to drive the trains. another challenge with grade crossings happens 
in urban areas where signalized intersections   are present near the railway. red lights form 
a line of vehicles that can back up across   the tracks. you should never drive over a railway 
until you know it's clear on the other side. but,   if you're not paying attention, it can be 
easy to misjudge the available space and   find yourself inadvertently stopped right on 
top of the tracks. traffic signals near grade   crossings are usually coordinated with automatic 
warning devices. when a train is approaching,   the signal goes green to clear 
the queue blocking the tracks. equipment for the most basic track circuits 
to the most sophisticated, including relays,   microcontrollers, backup batteries, and more are 
usually housed in a nearby bungalow or cabin that   is easy to spot. in the us, every grade crossing 
has its own unique identifier, and they all have a   phone number to call if something isn't working 
correctly. railroads take reports seriously,   so give them a call if you ever see something that 
doesn't look right. if you want to see a lot of   these grade crossing systems in action, check 
out my friend danny's channel, distant signal,   for some of the best railfan videos out there. 
we depend on trains for a lot of things, and in   the opinion of many, we could use a few more of 
them in our lives. despite the hazard they pose,   trains have to coexist with our other forms 
of transportation. next time you pull up to   a crossbuck, take a moment to appreciate 
the sometimes simple, sometimes high tech,   but always quite reliable ways 
that grade crossings keep us safe. i've talked about what it's like as a motorist 
at a grade crossing, but i didn't mention how   satisfying it is to be a train passenger, watching 
those lines of cars wait as you pass by. where   i live, i don't get to take many train rides 
(to the dismay of my obsessed three-year-old),   but i do have a show that scratches the itch: 
jet lag is a travel-based game show, created by   my friend sam of wendover productions. 
each season is this crazy adventure to   complete challenges using different modes of 
transportation. it's just such a creative idea,   and what i really love is seeing how all 
types of public transport function around   the world. season 8 is in full swing right 
now. you can watch a few episodes on youtube,   but if you want to catch each one as it's 
released, you have to do it on nebula. you've heard me talk about nebula before: it's 
a streaming platform for independent creators   like me. i love youtube, and it's a perfect 
home for most of the videos i like to make,   but the platform does drive the types of content 
that succeed: series don't work very well,   every video has to be optimized for clickability, 
and everything is ad-supported which constrains   not only the content of the videos, but also 
how much room there is for experimentation.   just like everything on tv eventually turns into 
a reality show, it seems like everything on my   part of youtube eventually becomes a 15-minute 
explainer with flashy graphics and a clickbait   thumbnail. don't get me wrong, i love a good 
explainer with flashy graphics, but i like   other stuff too. shows like jet lag, and my 
practical construction series where i embedded   with a contractor for a year while they built a 
sewage lift station, don't fit that youtube mold,   but they're also too weird for a big studio 
to greenlight. nebula meets us in the middle. the platform has grown so much since i started 
releasing videos there with tons of exclusive   content and early access to your favorite 
creator's videos, all with zero ads. i know there   are a bunch of streaming services right now, and 
adding another one to your list is a big ask. but,   at only $30 for an entire year of access (if you 
use my link), this one is not going to break the   bank. at that price, it's easy to give a 
shot and see if you like it as much as i   do. that link is in the description. thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think.