we're at a crossing. can you
feel this? can you touch the fear and dizziness of our
moment? can you sense the ground shifting beneath you? the sky
spinning as a red tail swipes the stars from the heavens.
everything is changing. right now. there's no going back
anymore. all is getting shaky, but all is getting clamped down.
all is being liberated. while all is being tracked. all is
permitted, while the inquisitor looms behind you. two sides have
risen, insuperable opposites with no medium to join them. the
extremes are weighing in and all reality is caught between
charybdis and scylla. you see, they told us the world was just
a cacophony of colliding particles. that love was just an
injection of hormones and instincts. they told us the
heavens were cold and dead, that the fairies were our ancestors'
delusions. they convinced us art was the framing of random facts
and objects. they told us our stories and rituals were only
power games and superstitions. they made us into desire
machines, no closer to the gods than the beasts. in fact, the
gods do not exist. the angels, the jinns, the demons, the
woodland sprites do not exist. they're superstition. the world
is a wound up clock running out. and in the end, you are a wound
up clock running out into nothingness. you can't try to
kill all the gods and then still expect to live, can you? they
mocked, they derided, they dissected. and now our world is
being ripped apart. now who could have seen this coming? who
could have thought that in defiling our stories and
demonizing our orders and reducing all that made us one,
to the quantities that embodied that unity. who would have
thought that that would fragment us? that it would fragment our
societies, our vision, that it would twist our virtues into
innumerable empty desires. but this is where we stand, isn't
it? we look around us and we watch the story unravel. we
watch our commonalities fall apart, as people are at each
other's throats. first, virtually, but more and more in
the flesh. and so what can we do? we're supposed to be
artists. but it's partly our fault that this has happened.
maybe not you and i. but let's say the artists. we are supposed
to be the guardians of stories. we are supposed to be those who
enchant the world. but for several hundred years now, it is
us who have played the part in making everything arbitrary and
making everything random, in playing around beauty as if it
was just a frivolous fantasy of individuals. and so it's partly
our fault. and it's partly our fault as
christians as well. in many ways we have assaulted the world of
meaning. we have assaulted the enchanted world. as christians
we in the west have been part of those who have removed the
angels from the heavens, who have chased the sprites out of
the forests. it's us who did that. and now we live with the
consequences of our actions. but hope is not completely lost.
we do stand here in a very dark moment. we do stand in the dark
room with strange eerie sounds, coming from that darkness. but
all hope is not lost. we know of this story. we know of this
story of a man who went into death and surprised everybody by
entering there. we know this story of someone who went into
death and death thought that it had won. death thought that in
bringing that man who is also god into its belly, that it had
won. but it grabbed life. and the trick was played on it. and
i believe that we can participate in that trick. right
now, all of us, all of us who are artists and who believe in
that story, who live by that story, or at least have the
pretence of living by that story. there's an opportunity
for us right now. because in this strange darkness there are
strange creepy crawly things that are coming up. the world is
being re-enchanted. the atheists, the secularists, they
were wrong. the world cannot exist without meaning. it is
impossible. every single capacity we have to even
recognise something as having being is already a participation
in meaning. their war on meaning cannot be won. but as all of our stories have
been shattered and broken apart, it has given room for all the
dark things to come back up first. and those are the things
we're starting to see appear on our horizon. the old gods are
coming back and not even the interesting old gods. but those
darker gods, the ones that don't have clear identities, those
strange hybrid monsters that lived on the edge of the world,
they're the ones that are crawling back into the world
first. and as artists we have an opportunity. because we know the
story, especially as christian artists, we know the story. we
know the story of the world. we know what happens next. there's
always a spark hidden in the darkness. there's always a lit
candle in that darkest place. because without that lit candle,
things simply do not exist. the word of god is hidden in
creation. and it is our job to find it, and it is our job as
artists to help the world see that flicker. and there is an
opportunity, because a strange thing is happening in culture.
as christianity is being evacuated from the public
sphere. as our story is being tossed aside, it is nonetheless
filling the world at the same time. and this is a mystery
that, even a few decades ago people could not see the strange
mystery of death. the strange mystery of christ entering in
the tomb we have the opportunity of seeing it happen right now,
because as the christian story is being evacuated, we are
noticing that it's reappearing in all the strangest places. because the bright light of
christ is no longer so visible, all of a sudden these small
sparkles are starting to appear hidden in the cavern walls. and
we see this story of christ in the strangest places we see some
stupid superhero movie where the superhero falls to the ground
and dies and then rises again. and we see another strange
popular story coming up of someone sacrificing themselves
for others, giving themselves for the weakest. we see twisted
versions of people who are willing to do everything to
bring up the weaker part of our world, to bolster it and to help
it. and where do you think those lights come from? and so we have
an opportunity. but we also have a responsibility. meaning is
inescapable and we have responsibility towards it. it is
a weight that we have to carry as artists. it is a very
daunting responsibility that we have right now as the world
descends into darkness, that we are the ones who can give it a
little bit of hope. we are the ones that can point those little
sparks, those small lights, those twisted versions of the
true light, that we are the ones who can point it back to the one
true light and origin of our world. and so i just wanted to maybe
give people a challenge. and i know all of you watching this
are probably artists. so i want to give you that challenge. to
jump into that story. to not think that the story of christ
is just the story we believe in to be saved. but to truly jump
into that story, and realise that that story is also the
story of everything. it is the story of creation. it is the
story of how things exist. the story of christ is the fullest
manifestation of every other story that have been told since
the beginning of time. and so it is our responsibility to jump
into that and to redistribute it to the world in ways that point
towards that great story. so i want to thank you for your
attention today. and i hope that all of us can grasp that
challenge, that opportunity and also that responsibility