in september 2009, abu dhabi's sovereign 
wealth fund agreed to buy singapore's   chartered semiconductor manufacturing 
for $2.5 billion sgd or $1.8 billion usd.   abu dhabi would merge chartered's 
operations into its globalfoundries venture. chartered had been the third largest 
independent foundry in the market.   it was singapore's only big indigenous player 
in its burgeoning semiconductor industry.   the acquisition marked the end of a 22 year 
journey of challenges and financial losses. in this video, i want to talk about what 
was supposed to be singapore's tsmc.   how it started, where it went, and 
how it ended as an independent entity. in a previous video, i talked about some of the   strategies taiwan used in order to 
launch its semiconductor industry.   the gist is that they used public-private 
arrangements that spun off small private entities   to commercialize raw technologies. some of these 
companies would fail. some of these companies   wildly succeeded. most are just okay, which 
isn't bad because they can absorb employment. singapore's industry development 
strategy leans heavily on using   its business-friendly environment 
to attract large multi-nationals   to establish a presence on the island. you start 
getting spillover effects, transfers of technology   and skillsets coming over from foreigners 
to singaporean locals. as the theory goes. i am kind of reminded of those 
whalefalls at the bottom of the ocean.   when a whale dies, its body sinks 
to the sea floor. soon thereafter,   animals arrive to feast on the meat. before 
long, you have spawned an entire ecosystem.   where before there was nothing, now there is life. 
okay, weird metaphor but it gets the point across. in pursuit of this goal, singapore considers 
its well-educated, hard-working population   as one of its most critical assets. this is in 
contrast with other countries like saudi arabia,   canada, and australia, which boast vast natural 
resources like oil, forests, and iron ore.   singapore boasts vast reserves of human capital. like taiwan, singapore has had a presence 
in electronics assembly since 1969.   it makes up one of the economy's big industrial 
exports alongside refined petroleum products   and fabricated metal products. the 
country especially did well in disk   drives and memory - singapore at the 
time was the world's disk-drive capital. but as time passed, new competitors were 
emerging in the space and it was clear   that this could not remain the status quo. the 
global marketplace is intensively competitive.   multi-national disk drive makers were beginning 
to decamp for places like malaysia and indonesia,   chasing the next low cost locale. singapore's economic planners 
saw chip making as the natural   next step for the country's electronics industry.   it is not labor intensive but rather 
requires highly skilled and educated workers. with chartered semiconductors, singapore 
sought to climb the value chain and nurture   a semiconductor national champion of their own. singapore has had success growing indigenous 
national champions even in competitive areas   like airlines. singapore technologies 
group (stg) is one of those champions.   it started as a defense equipment supplier, 
growing into one of singapore's biggest companies.   stg was selected to spearhead singapore's 
entrance into the semiconductor space. stg kicked off what would eventually 
become chartered semiconductors in   1987 - the same year of tsmc's founding - with 
a technology transfer agreement between itself   and us fabless semiconductor 
maker sierra semiconductor. stg had originally hoped that it could count on 
the support of sierra and us multinational company   national semiconductor. but national semiconductor 
dropped out and sierra was not a big customer.   but stg saw the success of tsmc's innovative   new independent foundry business model 
and restructured chartered to copy it. chartered thus spun off its integrated circuit 
design house and moved forward as a pure foundry.   chartered moved forward, rebranded as 
chartered semiconductor manufacturing or csm. in 1999, they went public on the 
nasdaq and singapore stock markets.   a year later, the company would 
be restructured as a majority   government-backed entity directly within 
singapore's sovereign wealth fund temasek. at chartered's founding, sierra transferred over 
its 3.0 micron process technology and trained   100 singaporean technical staffs in how to use 
it. this process technology was way outdated   and it needed to be updated to the 
cutting edge as fast as possible. almost immediately, csm began an in-house r&d 
lab in order to improve the process tech they   got from sierra. highly motivated to advance 
as fast as possible, they pushed ahead quickly. 1990, they achieved 1.5 microns. 1991, 1.2 microns. 1992, 0.8 microns. 1993, 0.6 microns. a year later in 1994, csm announced a new 
deal with toshiba to use their 0.5 micron   process technology. they rapidly expanded 
their production facilities throughout the   1990s with five foundries on some 60 hectares in 
northern singapore. plans had been drawn up for   up to 25 such foundries in the near future. meanwhile, csm began to expand its product 
assortment - seeking to capture as much of   customers' business as possible. the more 
of a complete, turnkey solution that they   can offer to their customers, the more 
locked-in their customers can be with csm. the singapore government put its muscle behind the 
company by offering multi-national companies ample   tax incentives and subsidies to come 
and lodge their manufacturing facilities   there. government funds helped companies 
pay for the costs of training staff.   state-run universities started programs 
to graduate electrical engineers. the same tactics that helped singapore 
get its start in the memory industry,   government officials practiced to get leverage in 
semiconductor fabrication. the government's muscle   helped to get csm to third place in the foundry 
industry behind taiwanese companies tsmc and umc. so what happened to csm? why did they agree 
to a buyout? they essentially got caught   in a pincer movement that eventually led to the 
company being squeezed out of the foundry market. the first has to do with the entry of low-cost 
semiconductor foundries from mainland china.   i talked about this a little 
bit in a previous video. in 2000, a few chinese independent foundries 
entered the market. china had recently entered   the world trade organization, giving birth to 
the biggest export machine in world history. the most notable of these chinese startups 
was semiconductor manufacturing international   corporation, or smic. founded and led for 
many years by a former tsmc vice president,   the company rose to become china's 
foremost independent foundry. smic took advantage of substantial 
government subsidies and cheaper costs   of living at the time to disrupt 
the market from the bottom up. the same process technology licenses available to 
csm were also available to them too. thus, they   climbed the technology process tree just as fast. 
since the tech all came from ibm or the like,   vendors could easily switch 
to the lowest cost provider. the same tactics of cheap land, tax subsidies, 
engineering talent, and more to lure semiconductor   entrepreneurs and mncs, china can offer just as 
much as singapore. but on an even larger scale. and then tsmc decided to bring the battle 
to csm on its own home turf. in 1998, tsmc   executed on a joint venture with frequent partner 
philips electronics to start ssmc in singapore.   tsmc casually threw down $2 billion sgd over 3 
years to build a fab there with trailing-edge   technologies - just good enough for many 
customers in the singaporean semi market. csm discovered that they could not offer a product 
differentiated enough from their cheaper chinese   and taiwanese competitors. ergo their prices had 
to go down, eating away at the gross margins of   everyone in the business. you can say that 
gross margin is a rough financial indicator   of just how special your product is and 
how much people are willing to pay for it. in 2005, csm made just 11% gross margin 
on their product. 2003, they did -17.5%.   during that same period tsmc's gross 
margins were 44%. the company needed to   go up the ladder, get to the leading edge and 
differentiate their product in some other way. but suddenly that ladder vanished beneath them. in 2005, samsung announced that they would 
enter the standalone foundry business,   bringing their immense resources and expertise 
to the fray. they would leverage both to quickly   rocket to second place ahead of csm and 
umc. i did a video about them earlier. samsung electronics was already one of the 
biggest electronics and semiconductor companies   in the world. they owned the largest share 
of an oligopoly in the digital memory market   as well as the biggest handset business at 
the time. they knew what they were doing,   and they had a captive customer for their product   (despite whatever they might say about 
chinese walls between the various divisions). so while the chinese competitors ate away at the 
lower rungs of the foundry market like pac-man,   samsung stole the business of servicing high end 
customers looking for either diversification,   additional capacity, or better pricing from tsmc.   worse yet, samsung kicked off a 
war that csm could not compete in. samsung's entry into high end foundry 
work directly threatened tsmc.   samsung not only brought formidable engineering 
prowess drawn from their memory business   but also billions and billions of dollars. tsmc then decided that it was 
time to get real and hit the gym.   rather than using their profits to 
boost their stock by buying back   shares or paying more dividends, they 
poured money into fabs, r&d, and more. the semiconductor world is highly cyclical. 
there are good years that are great   and bad years that are really bad. the 
early 2000s saw consecutive bad years.   too many foundry players and not enough demand. it is not just about ponying up billions, 
but also doing so during these hard times.   tsmc had the wherewithal and the patience 
to invest billions to pick up failing fabs   and continue on their massive foundry 
work without pause. same with samsung. meanwhile, staying on the leading edge just kept 
getting more expensive. in 2005, a leading edge   fab cost $3 billion to build, six times higher 
than what it would have cost in 1995. fifteen   years later in 2020, tsmc's leading 
edge n5 fab in tainan cost $17 billion.   its next generation n3 process fab (also in 
tainan) is estimated to cost $19.5 billion. csm tried to lighten the financial load 
by partnering with other organizations   like ibm to develop new edge process 
technologies. but doing so drastically   slowed down product development and they fell 
behind the curve anyhow. not to mention that   the tech partner would then license out their 
learnings to competitors within a few years. thus csm found itself caught in a pincer movement.   not enough revenue to fund their work. 
not enough subsidies to stay in the game.   too far behind in the tech curve to catch up. 
but can't stay where they were. the singapore   government was willing to spend money. they 
allocated hundreds of millions of dollars to csm   and its dreams of having a national champion. but 
hundreds of millions falls far short of billions. by the time the financial crisis came around, csm 
and its investors realized that they had lost.   the singapore government stuck around for 22 years 
of financial losses, but it was time to let go. abu dhabi then came calling 
with a bold idea. they wanted   to build a global national champion in 
semiconductors. they would use their   voluminous oil profits to buy out a number 
of foundries in search of a global giant.   in doing so, the people of the uae can learn 
valuable stem skills and business savvy. it's a   classic journey by other gulf states to head off 
potential turmoil after the oil fields run out. globalfoundries offered $2.68 sgd for csm's 
stock in september 2009. the price was just 2   cents higher than the closing price. since 
majority holder temasek backed the deal,   the acquirer didn't feel the 
need to offer much of a premium. for what it is worth, globalfoundries never 
managed to execute on their business strategy.   gloflo as it was colloquially called could not 
reach the necessary scale for escape velocity.   it is more than just a money thing. just around the time of gloflo's founding, 
tsmc and samsung as the market leaders   executed on a number of necessary technical moves 
to lock in their premium leading-edge customers   at a very deep level. it's hard to explain, but 
it basically means that if you wanted to make a   chip with the most advanced processes post 
2010-ish, you can only use tsmc or samsung. unable to keep up with the tech race and 
now locked out of the premium market,   gloflo in 2018 ended their 7nm development 
to focus on specialized processes.   internet commenters immediately 
began second-guessing the move. singapore set out on its journey with csm in 
order to build its own tsmc. they had a lot   going for them. they had an established strategy, 
deep connections with powerful multi-nationals,   and a well-educated work force. with this, they 
sought to build a thriving semiconductor industry   on par with what japan, taiwan or south korea had. csm failed and that is unfortunate because the 
singaporean government is extremely competent,   patient, and effective at what they do. they 
deserved success, but success is never guaranteed.   entering into such a market, it is like running 
in a race with no ending. there is no finish line   to celebrate, because your competitors 
keeps pushing it further down the road. there are also unsettling questions about how 
much the singaporean natives actually benefitted   from the massive investments the government threw 
into csm. a significant percentage of the jobs,   including on the senior level, went to 
highly paid expat foreigners. that did not   much change throughout the 22 years of losses. 
how much did the ordinary singaporean benefit?   these are difficult things to think about 
and consider when reviewing the results.   but of course, hindsight is 20-20. but i think the overall singaporean semiconductor 
sector continues to do alright. it remains a   significant part of the economy, creates jobs for 
singaporeans, and makes a profit for its partners.   that's a good thing and something we should not 
ignore. home runs are home runs for a reason.   they are rare and hard to make. doing a bunch 
of doubles and singles can be perfectly fine.