in february 2021, a winter storm that swept 
through texas caused one of the most severe   power crises in american history. the cold 
weather created shockingly high electricity   demands as people tried to keep their homes 
warm. but it also caused problems with the   power supply because power plants themselves 
and their supporting infrastructure weren't   adequately protected against freezing weather. 
the result was that texas couldn't generate   enough power to meet demand. instead they 
would have to disconnect customers to reduce   demands down to manageable levels. but before grid 
operators could shed enough load from the system,   the frequency of the alternating 
current dropped as the remaining   generators were bogged down, falling 
below 59.4 hertz for over 4 minutes. it might not seem like much, but that is a 
critical threshold in grid operations. it's 1%   below nominal. power plants have relays that keep 
track of grid frequency and disconnect equipment   if anything goes awry to prevent serious damage. 
if the grid frequency drops below 59.4 hertz,   the clock starts ticking. and if it doesn't 
return to the nominal frequency within 9 minutes,   the relays trip! that means the texas 
grid came within a bathroom break from   total collapse. if a few more large 
power plants tripped offline or too   few customers were shed from the system in 
time, it's likely that the frequency would   have continued to drop until every single 
generator on the grid was disconnected. thankfully, that nightmare 
scenario was avoided. still,   despite operators preventing a total collapse, the 
2021 power crisis was one of the most expensive   and deadly disasters in texas history. if 
those four minutes had gone differently,   it's almost impossible to imagine how serious 
the consequences would be. let's put ourselves   in the theoretical boots of someone waking 
up after that frigid february night in texas,   assuming the grid did collapse, and find out. 
i'm grady, and this is practical engineering.   in today's episode, we're talking about the 
impacts of blackouts on other infrastructure. every so often some loud noise 
wakes you from your sleep:   a truck backfiring on the street outside, a 
baby crying, a cat knocking something off a   shelf. but it's a very different thing 
altogether to be awoken by silence,   your unconscious mind telling you that the 
sounds you should be hearing are gone. it only   takes a groggy minute to piece it together. the 
refrigerator is silent, no air is flowing through   the heating register, the ceiling fan above your 
head is slowly coming to a stop. the power is out. you check your phone. it's 4am. nothing you can   really do but go back to sleep and 
hope they get it fixed by daylight. most of us have experienced a power outage at some 
point, but they're usually short (lasting on the   order of minutes or hours) and they're mostly 
local (affecting a small area at a time). a   wide area interconnection - that's the technical 
term for a power grid - is designed that way on   purpose. it has redundancies, multiple paths that 
power can take to get to the same destination,   and power users and producers are spread 
out, reducing the chance that they could   be impacted all at once. but having everyone 
interconnected is a vulnerability too, because   if things go very wrong, everyone is affected. 
we're in the midst of a deep dive series on wide   scale outages to the power grid, and a mismatch 
between supply and demand (like what happened   in texas) is only one of the many reasons that 
could cause a major blackout. natural disasters,   engineering errors, and deliberate attacks can 
all completely collapse a grid, and - at least   for the first few hours of an outage - you might 
not even know that what you're experiencing is any   more serious than a wayward tree branch tripping 
the fuse on the transformer outside your house. you wake up 3 hours later, cold, sunlight 
peeking in through your bedroom window.   the power is still off. you grab your cell 
phone to try and figure out what's going   on. it has a full battery from charging 
overnight, and you have a strong signal   too. you try to call a friend, but the call 
won't go through. you try a few more times,   but still, nothing more than a friendly 
voice saying "all circuits are busy." there is a vast array of pathways that 
information flows between people across   the globe, and they all use grid power to 
function. fiber networks use switches and   optical terminals distributed throughout the 
service area. cable tv and dsl networks have   nodes that service around 500 to 1000 customers 
each that require power. cellular networks use   base stations mounted on towers or rooftops. 
major telecommunications facilities are usually   on prioritized grid circuits and may even have 
redundant power feeds from multiple substations,   but even during a blackout where the entire grid 
is completely disabled, you might still have   service. that's because most telecommunication 
facilities are equipped with backup batteries   that can keep them running during a power 
outage for 4 to 8 hours. critical facilities   like cellular base stations and data-centers 
often have an on-site backup generator. these   generators have enough fuel to extend the 
resiliency beyond 24 to 48 hours. that said,   major emergencies create huge demands on 
telecommunication services as everyone is   trying to find and share information at once, 
so you might not be able to get through even if   the services are still available. in the us, the 
federal government works with telecommunications   providers to create priority channels so that 
911 calls, emergency management communications,   and other matters related to public safety can 
get through even when the networks are congested. since you're trying to make a personal call and 
you aren't enrolled in the telecommunications   service priority program, you're not getting 
through. just then, an emergency alert appears   on your screen. it says that there's a power grid 
failure and to prepare for an extended outage. the   reality of the situation is just starting to set 
in. since most people have a cell phone, wireless   emergency alerts have become an important addition 
to the emergency alert system that connects   various levels of government to tv, radio, 
satellite, and telephone companies to disseminate   public warnings and alerts. during a blackout, 
sharing information isn't just for likes on social   media. it's how we keep people safe, connect 
them with resources, and maintain social order.   two-way communications like cell phones and the 
internet might not last long during a grid outage,   so one-way networks like radio and television 
broadcasts are essential to keep people informed.   these facilities are often equipped with more 
backup fuel reserves and even emergency provisions   for the staff so that they can continue to 
operate during a blackout for weeks if necessary. jump ahead a couple of days.your circumstances 
start to dictate your experiences heavily. even   an outage of this length can completely upend your 
life if you, for example, depend on medication   that must be refrigerated or electrically-powered 
medical equipment (like a ventilator or dialysis   machine). but for many, a blackout on the 
order of a day or two is still kind of fun, a   diversion from the humdrum of everyday life. maybe 
you've scrounged together a few meals from what's   remaining in your pantry, enjoyed some candlelit 
conversations with neighbors, seen more stars in   the night sky than you ever have in your life. but 
after those first 48 hours, things are starting to   get more serious. you ponder how long you can stay 
in your home before needing to go out for supplies   as you head into the kitchen to get a glass of 
water. you open the tap, and nothing comes out. a public water supply is another utility highly 
dependent on a functioning electrical grid.   pumping, cleaning, and disinfecting water 
to provide a safe source to everyone within   a city is a power-intensive ordeal. water is 
heavy, after all, and just moving it from one   place to another takes a tremendous amount of 
energy. most cities use a combination of backup   generators and elevated storage to account for 
potential emergencies. those elevated tanks,   whether they are water towers or just ground-level 
basins built on hillsides, act kind of like   batteries to make sure the water distribution 
system stays pressurized even if pumps lose power.   but those elevated supplies don't last forever. 
every state has its own rules about how much is   required. in texas, large cities must have at 
least 200 gallons or 750 liters of water stored   for every connection to the system, and half 
of that needs to be in elevated or pressurized   tanks so that it will still flow into the pipes 
if the pumps aren't working. average water use   varies quite a bit by location and season, but 
that amount of storage is roughly enough to last   a city two days under normal conditions. combine 
the backup storage with the backup generation   system at a typical water utility, and maybe they 
can stretch to 3 or 4. without a huge mobilization   of emergency resources, water can quickly become 
the most critical resource in an urban area   during a blackout. but don't forget the related 
utility we depend on as well: sewage collection. lift stations that pump raw sewage and treatment 
plants that clean it to a level where it's safe   to release back into the environment are energy 
intensive processes as well. most states require   that lift stations and treatment plants have 
backup power supplies or enough storage to avoid   overflows during an outage, but usually those 
requirements are for short-term disruptions. when   power is lost for more than a day or two, these 
facilities won't be able to continue functioning   without additional fuel and maintenance. 
even in the best case scenario, that means   raw wastewater in the sewers will have to bypass 
treatment plants and be discharged directly into   waterways like rivers and oceans. in the worst 
case, sewers and lift stations will overflow,   exposing the people within cities to raw 
sewage and creating a public health emergency. flash forward to a week after the start of 
the blackout, and any fun from the change   of pace is long gone. you still keep your 
cell phone battery charged from your car,   but you rarely get a signal and phone calls 
almost never connect. plus, your car's almost   out of gasoline and the fuel at filling stations 
has long been sent to backup generators at   critical facilities. you are almost certainly 
running low on food and water after a week,   even if you've been able to share or barter with 
neighbors or visit one of the rare stores that was   willing to open their doors and accept cash. 
by now, only the most prioritized facilities   like hospitals and radio stations plus those 
with solar or wind charging systems still have   a functioning backup power supply. everything 
else is just dead. and now you truly get a sense   of how complex and interconnected our systems of 
infrastructure are, because there's almost nothing   that can frustrate the process of restoring power 
than a lack of power itself. here's what i mean: power plants are having trouble purchasing fuel 
because, without electricity to power data centers   and good telecommunications, banks and energy 
markets are shut down. natural gas compressors   don't have power, so they can't send fuel to 
the plants. railway signals and dispatch centers   are down, so the coal trains are stopped. public 
roadways are snarled because none of the traffic   signals work, creating accidents and reducing 
the capacity at intersections. even if workers   at critical jobs like power plants, pipelines, and 
substations still have gas in their vehicles, they   are having a really hard time actually getting 
to work. and even if they can get there, they   might not know what to do. most of our complicated 
infrastructure systems like oil and gas pipelines,   public water systems, and the electrical grid 
are operated using scada - networked computers,   sensors, and electronic devices that perform a 
lot of tasks automatically... if they have power.   even if you can get people to the valves, 
switches, pump stations, and tanks to help   with manual operations, they might not know 
under which parameters to operate the system.   the longer the outage lasts, the more reserves of 
water, fuel, foods, medicine, and goods deplete,   and the more systems break down. each of these 
complicated systems are often extremely difficult   to bring back online alone, and nearly impossible 
without the support of adjacent infrastructure. electricity is not just a luxury. it is a 
necessity of modern life. even ignoring our   own direct use of it, almost everything we 
depend on in our daily lives, and indeed the   orderly conduct of a civil society, is undergirded 
by a functioning electrical grid. of course, life   as we know it doesn't break down as soon as the 
lights go out. having gone without power for three   days myself during the texas winter storm, i have 
seen first hand how kind and generous neighbors   can be in the face of a difficult situation. 
but it was a difficult situation, and a lot of   people didn't come through on the other side of 
those three days quite as unscathed as i did. natural disasters and bad weather 
regularly create localized outages,   but thankfully true wide-scale blackouts have 
been relatively few and far between. that   doesn't mean they aren't possible, though, 
so it's wise to be prepared. in general,   preparedness is one of the most important roles 
of government, and at least in the us, there's a   lot we get right about being ready for the worst. 
that said, it makes sense for people to have some   personal preparations for long-duration power 
outages too, and you can find recommendations   for supplies to keep on hand at fema's website. 
at both an institutional and personal level,   finding a balance between the chance of disaster 
striking and the resources required to be prepared   is a difficult challenge, and not everyone 
agrees on where to draw the line. of course,   the other kind of preparedness is our ability 
to restore service to a collapsed power grid and   get everyone back online as quickly as possible. 
that's called a black start, and it sounds simple   enough, but there are some enormous engineering 
challenges associated with bringing a grid up   from nothing. that's the topic we'll cover in 
the next practical engineering video, so make   sure you're subscribed so you don't miss it. thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think.