the number one car channel in the united kingdom, is that right? yeah. yeah i mean it's not america and you know americans got you, beat but, that's how it usually goes. hello, everyone and welcome i am here beside the 2017 dodge hellcat wide-body, and i'm here with, alex from car throttle we're gonna be talking about 10 interesting facts about this car and i know sometimes i get a little too technical, little too nerdy so i've gotten alex here to help me explain it to everyone the layman and he'll still sound smart doing it because he's british. awesome thank you very much. absolutely. now one of the most obvious changes about, this car is that the tires are 30mm wider versus the standard hellcat and that gives better longitudinal grip so this is actually taking the 0 to 60 down from 3.5 seconds to 3.4 seconds an increase of an average of 0.02 g's in acceleration. so in other words you're just a massive nerd in this car is just really fast right? well technically really quick. yeah technically you're a nerd. now aside from acceleration, they also help with lateral grip so it's now able to pull 0.97 lateral g's versus 0.93. what that means is if you're going around 100 meter radius corner you're able to travel 2.4 kilometers per hour faster or about a mile and a half faster around that corner. to translate you are more of a nerd than i ever thought possible! and also this is an american car, that can actually corner. not bad. now, the hellcat wide body is 3.5 inches wider versus the regular hellcat and the drag coefficient has gone from about 0.38 to, about 0.40. now, what this means is that there's more aerodynamic drag and as a result top, speed has gone from 199 miles per hour, down to 195 miles per hour much like humans as cars get wider they get slower. hey, you're looking at me when you say that you calling me fat? no i'm saying i'm faster. prove it. *alex panting* now as a result of putting wider tires on the car it increases the steering moment and so if you're at low speeds in a parking lot it can make steering difficult. as a result they've switched the standard hellcat over from hydraulic steering to electronic power steering, you know make it easier in parking lots. that's really nice of them meant to accommodate people like, you you know, wow you've been working out? it's not for me it was for others. oh for others ok. we'll go with that now we've got larger wheels, we've got larger tires, we've got larger body panels, all of this adds about 50 pounds to the car's weight but it's still about two seconds faster per lap on a 1.7 mile road course that dodge tested it on. which means ladies and gentlemen that weight reduction is a lie! underneath the hood is a 2.4 liter twin-screw supercharger and it takes 80 horsepower just to run this thing. so let, me get this straight. the supercharger? yes. has a bigger displacement than your honda engine at 2 liters, then it also requires more power to run than your car produces? haha, kind of like phill, yeah that's exactly, what we're saying. now you can see on the supercharger these banks on the left and right there's actually two built in air to water intercoolers to cool that intake charge. now dodge has done some testing and they've found that they can run the car 20 minutes flat out on a race track at a hundred degrees ambient fahrenheit temperature and it doesn't de-rate the engine at all and it keeps the intake air temperatures under 140 degrees fahrenheit. now this supercharger can flow 30 thousand liters of air per minute, and i did the math since you're british four cups of tea, every single day, for your entire life, if you live to be 87 years old. that's the equivalent volume in one minute. *gasp* are we talking an english breakfast harrow, old grey? i'm gonna have to get back to you on that. now interesting fact about the exhaust valves, they're actually filled with sodium and the reason they do this is it helps extract that heat from the head of the valve up into the stem and then distribute it within the engine. keeps the exhaust valves cooler. wow you guys really, do like your salt in america don't you? yes we do. now the exhaust valves are cool, but the intake valves are also cool, they're actually hollow and the reason they do this is this is a pushrod engine and pushrod engines are notorious for having valve float at high rpm, and that's a result of reciprocating mass of those push rods and the intake valves. well they've taken, some of the mass out of those intake valves, by making them hollow and as a result at 6200 rpm this engines red line they don't have to worry about valve float. so what you're trying to say is just like your soul, these valves are hollow. ow. yeah, pretty feisty right. i guess accurate, but hurtful. and finally talking, about some of the aerodynamics of the car. this actually uses the same spoiler that's on the hellcat not the one that's used on the demon and the 392. reason being although it adds 11 pounds of additional drag it actually has about 30 more pounds of downforce that it puts on the back of the car. so 30 pounds the equivalent of you sitting on the boot trunk? dude i'm not 30 pounds. you can't even lift 30 pounds though, right? i can't lift 30 pounds thank, you guys for watching! alex thank you for joining me and now you should head over to car throttle and check out our review of this sick v8 swapped bmw! you know i didn't mean all the bad things i said about you before right. yeah they're there.