- free performance? wow! how much does it cost? it's free? nothing in life is free. but nvidia's dlss is really close. look at these images side by side. one of them is running
at native 4k resolution, and one of them is an imposter running at just a quarter of
that, then upscaling to 4k. can't tell which is which? you're not alone. - i think this game is going
to be really hard to tell. - it's pretty hard to tell the difference. - not a lot of difference. - the best part is that the
gpu in our upscaled machine only costs a quarter as much. let's talk about how this
technology works then and see who from the ltt team was ultimately able to
tell the difference. our test was generously sponsored by lg, who also provided their new g1 tv featuring a second gen oled evo panel. this is as good as it gets for gaming tvs, and will give our
participants their best shot at picking out the imposter 4k gpu. (beeping) (upbeat music) there are many obvious benefits
to a premium graphics card. typically they have enough
performance headroom to enable advanced visual features, like more realistic hair rendering, real-time dynamic lighting
and higher quality textures. of course, you can get all of those things out of a mid-range gpu, but if you can't render
enough frames per second, they come at the cost
of animation smoothness and input responsiveness. that's why medium settings exist. of course, if you don't like
turning the details down, another great way to get more fps is to drop down the resolution that your gpu is rendering at. but take it too far, and the
downsides of stair-stepping or aliasing and chunky looking textures start to outweigh the smoothness benefits. that's where dlss comes in. it combines the visual benefits
of high end game settings with the performance benefits
of lower resolution rendering, using a process that i call magic. i'm just kidding. this is magic. lttstore.com. dlss, that's not magic. and it wasn't always
actually even very good. in the first iteration,
nvidia would generate both low resolution frames
and then the same scene again, but super sampled a perfect frame, then they would train their ai to compare them pixel by
pixel and fill in the gaps, all of this in real time on
the rtx series tensor cores. very cool, but very flawed. version 1.0 lacked temporal awareness, which made it basically impossible to accurately upscale moving objects. and it had to be painstakingly implemented game by game, scene by scene, which led to all manner of distracting and even comical results. oh yeah, and the performance
uplift wasn't that great. but with version 2.0 and higher, the results are pretty shocking. in our double blind test, subjects played three
games on our lg g1 oled tv, cyberpunk 2077, control and
metro exodus: enhanced edition. - so i'm just trying to
tell which one is which? - [man] yeah. - okay. - avert your gaze. let's do like this. - this is gonna be really embarrassing if i don't get it right. - our two gaming pcs had an rtx
3090 for native 4k rendering and an rtx 3060 using dlss
with otherwise identical specs. there was no time limit
and our participants could switch between the
inputs as often as they liked. - the sign is just completely, it's like the quality
is turned way up, so. okay, what would that mean? so on dlss you get to turn the details up and still run a higher frame rate. so whereas a native, you would have- to maintain the frame rate, you turn the details down. so if this one was dlss, they would have the
details turned up higher. - [plouffe] yeah, like, if
you weren't analyzing this. - i would not notice the difference. it would be the same. - god, there is no different at all. maybe i'm just looking at the wrong thing. let me go somewhere else. - between the reflections over here and the character's hair textures, i'm pretty sure this one
here is the 4k native. the definition between the strands of hair is a little bit less over here. it seems to be almost like, i don't want to say blurred, kind of more like it's painted on, whereas over here, the definition seems to
be more self-shadowed. so there seems to be more actual like, pixel work going in. also, if you look over here, there's a little bit of detail
in this reflection here, but on this one, we
don't have that detail. so i'm pretty sure this is dlss. - yeah, this is dlss. see this, this lamppost right here? - [man] yeah. there's a little bit of kind
of artifact when you move. when you're still, you cannot tell,. but when you move slowly, you can see just a little bit of kind of, it's like a fuzziness. boy is it subtle, though. - while anthony and i
both correctly identified the dlss machine every time,
even in performance mode, which renders at just 1080p and upscales, we both relied on our technical knowledge rather than trying to subjectively pick the better looking one, and we both agreed that without specifically looking for clues, almost no gamer would
notice the difference in the course of normal gameplay. and this is backed up by
the rest of our results. interestingly, andy, who's a bit more into the
artistic photography scene, ended up actually preferring the slightly softer look
of dlss in some cases. if you want to see what we saw, the screen capture from both systems will be uploaded with corner cameras as a behind-the-scenes on floatplane. i'd recommend the 4k tier for
image quality comparisons. so what did nvidia change
to make it this good? well, with dlss 2.0 and up,
the ai is no longer trained on each game individually, but rather on a generalized dataset. it now uses 16k reference
images to improve clarity, and it now takes motion vector
data from the game engine to predict where moving
objects are going to be in the next frame. that improves accuracy. the smaller updates have
mostly added features with 2.1 adding an 8k
ultra performance mode, vr support, and the
ability to upscale games that dynamically alter
their own resolution, depending on scene complexity, and dlss 2.2 was mostly focused on performance improvements and bug fixes. of course, as i said before, nothing in life is free. so what's it costing us? well, to find out, we
ran ldac latency tests on our 3090 system using both 4k native and dlss performance mode. and what we found was that we got about an extra one millisecond of click to photon latency on average. and considering that you
can be doubling your fps in many cases, while
dlss is clearly adding some processing time,
to me that looks like a pretty good trade-off for the increase in frames per second. also, as we played through these games to find good comparison
scenarios for our testers, we found some more obvious
examples of poor upscaling. but that's actually about it. in performance mode, which is
usually using 1080p textures to fill in at 4k, it's an
extremely compelling story. we've got more than double
the original frame rate in both control and cyberpunk compared to native 4k on our 3060, and while metro exodus: enhanced edition saw slightly worse results,
they're still very impressive. but we haven't answered
the biggest question here. for years, hacky
corner-cutting in gpu drivers was considered cheating. so why are we accepting anything
other than the traditional brute force pixel-perfect
approach to driving more fps? the answer is that we
don't really have a choice. developers keep building more and more realistic looking games and manufacturers like
lg, wonderful oled tvs, thanks for sponsoring the video, have pushed the resolutions
of their displays so high that gpu makers couldn't
possibly hope to keep up unless you want your gpu to
take up half of your case and double as a space heater
for your two bedroom apartment. and given that the rtx 2000
series only had an estimated 10% of its die area allocated to rtx and other ai features like dlss, it actually seems like
a pretty good trade-off as long as the image
quality is up to snuff. and it's useful for more than just saving a buck on your gpu. if you have an enthusiast graphics card, who's to say you don't want
even more fps for free-ish? also, i'm expecting
dlss to play a huge role in allowing the rumored
nintendo switch pro to achieve high resolution gaming in a super power-efficient design. of course, when and even if that's coming is a big question mark right now. what isn't a question mark is that i hope to be
enjoying the maybe switch pro on one of these new g1 oleds from lg. lg's next generation oled evo panels offer brighter and punchier images with all the traditional benefits of oled, like perfect blacks and
per-pixel illumination. this thing manages to look
like a gallery display, while feeling like a gaming monitor with support for adaptive refresh rates, hdr, up to 120 hertz 4k over hdmi 2.1, and of course, lightning
fast pixel response times for excellent image clarity. it really is the perfect tv for 4k gaming if you've got a card that can drive it. but then, hey, maybe thanks to dlss, you don't even need a
card that can drive it. haha, got 'em. oh, lg also wanted me to
mention game optimizer, which optimizes the picture by genre of game that you're playing, and motion pro, which
aims to reduce motion blur for games that don't
allow you to turn it off. so are you enabling dlss
in games that support it or do you still notice the
weirdness that can occur? i mean, hey, i could tell, but it was a lot harder
than i would have thought we'd ever get to based on
my experience with dlss 1.0. so let us know in the comments. and if you enjoyed this video, maybe check out our "is rtx a
total waste of money?" video. those results might surprise you too. - i mean, if you're gonna
spend $2,000 on a 3060, anyway, (laughing) ugh, i wish things weren't so bad.