i'm gonna give away this
$300,000 mountain of money (cash register cha-ching) to people in need. starting with this business (vvripppp) going out of business. how's it going? i noticed your sign out front. are you guys struggling? - almost 11 months now. - good enough for me, here's $30,000 in the duffle bag. (ding) - huh? oh no. can i touch it? - yeah, you can touch it, of course. - i can pay my bills now. - i think it's safe to say, you don't need this sign anymore right? - oh no, not today. (explosion) - next place. up next, i'm paying for everyone's rent in this apartment complex. - even me? - you don't live here. this is jessica, the property
manager of the apartment. so i heard, because of the pandemic, a lot of people here are
struggling to pay rent. - that is correct, unfortunately a lot of our
residents have lost their jobs or have health problems. - no worries. chandler, come here. just like you said on the phone, here's enough money to
cover everyone's rent. (ding) - oh my goodness. - it's kind of heavy. (laughing) - it's extremely heavy. - ha, ha, ha. - this is gonna change so many lives. - yes. - and i'm so excited for the residents to
find out the great news. - you were telling me, you also manage those apartments? these over here? - yes. - can i also pay for their rent? chandler, give me another duffle bag. here you go, for their rent as well. (ding) do you also manage those apartments? - no, i don't. - sad. this is a sports car. and this is a giant red circle. - and this is a shovel. (boing) (explosion) this is jacob, a random subscriber. basically i parked the car
there, and i took the keys. and then i buried the keys
somewhere in this red circle. and if you find the keys to this car by the end of the night, you get to keep it. have fun, we'll see you in a few hours. - all right, i'll get to digging. (laughing) - good luck. - now we're at best buy, and we're gonna buy every
single playstation 5 and laptop in this store. i hope you guys ate your wheaties, there's a lot of these. am i even allowed to be up here? - no, probably not. i bet everybody watching
this that wants a ps5, is really mad, 'cause
we have like 25 of them. - and now we're gonna buy all the macs. are these like $1,500 a laptop? - hey man, there's a lot
of people subscribing. - each of these laptops is 15,000 of you. and you might be wondering why we need so many
playstation 5s and macs. well, because we're giving them away to a bunch of high schoolers. - and then we're gonna steal
all the school supplies. - and this is alice, one of the high school teachers. do you mind if we put a mac
and a ps5 on everyone's desk? - i don't think so. - you don't mind? - it'll be fine. nah, nah, i think it'll be good. - all right, let's do it. - let's do it. - ah, the most educational
thing on earth, ps5s. - wheelbarrow. - they have no idea, but when they come into school tomorrow, they're gonna get this. - your students look skinny, ma'am. - yeah, you know, we
don't feed 'em very well, this is public school. (high pitched laughing) - as you can see, every
student got a playstation 5, except this one. they're getting a playstation 4 because they're sitting
in the front middle. they're obviously a teacher pet. (laughing) - bro. - and now that we gave
all your students gifts, we also wanted to give you one. this backpack, thought it was funny,
'cause we're in a school. it is full of $10,000 in cash. here you go. - whoa, no way. - yes, this is yours. - okay, thanks. (laughing) thanks man, i got a ton
of kids, this is great. (laughing) i, i can't speak, that's all i gotta say. i just think it's wonderful, thank you, you're just wonderful, - no problem. - for helping our kids out. - and that $10,000 represents
100,000 subscribers, in case you're bad at math. now we're on a college campus and i'm gonna pay random
people's college debt. hey, hi. can i ask you a couple questions, for a poll real quick? can you tell me how much
college debt you have? - $15,000? really? oh, well this isn't actually a poll, i'm filming a youtube video. (small explosion) i wanna pay off your college debt. have you ever heard of
the channel mr. beast? - oh yeah. - yeah, well here you go. i gotta duffle bag full of money here. hey, do you have college debt? how much? five thousand? - well, we're paying random
people's college debt and i popped into you two first. - him doing this for me
is gonna help me a lot. my mom, she's the one that's been paying for everything for me. and i just like this'll help her a lot. (nervous laugh) - i never had this happened before. it's some stuff you see on youtube. - here's a bag of $15,000 and here's a bag of $15,000. - oh my god. - we're gonna go give away more money. anything else you wanna say? - man... - thank you so much. - no problem. - keep doing what you're doing. (indistinct) - he's top dog, man. - we're back at the money mountain and we're gonna load up on some more cash. here's what the mountain
looked like this morning and look at it now. we're making progress. - but there's still so much. - why are you up there? we checked back in with jacob, but after digging for hours, he wasn't even close to finding the key. - oh, i really want
this car, really badly. i ubered here, was well worth it. if i can find the keys. - i decided to surprise him with something to help speed things up. i take it 'cause the car's still here. you haven't found the keys yet. - yeah, i would've already left by now. (laughing) - it is about 5:00 pm, which means you have seven hours left to find the keys to that car. i got a surprise for you. and boom. (orchestra music) hop on. (laughing) time is money. i hope you enjoy your new toy. don't die. - i won't die. 'cause i got a car to win. - makes sense. - [mr. beast] thankfully, he didn't die. but the first thing he
did with the excavator was actually smash a playstation 5. - does it still work? - i don't know. - i got faith in it. - now i'm gonna order food and leave the delivery
person a gigantic tip. (cash register cha-ching) hey. - hey, it's kinda heavy. - awesome, thank you. wait real quick, before you go. i wanted to give you a tip. - here you go. (mumbling) there you go. - have you ever seen our channel? - i have. - good, 'cause you just
delivered our food. thank you for the food. - i've never been tipped like this ever. - well, i'd be surprised if someone else did tip you 10 grand. (holler) - this is 10 grand? - oh yeah, i guess we
should have told her that. - i doordash to pay all
of my bills right now. like to get my rent and
everything like that. so like this is just like, a huge weight off my shoulders right now. - and if you're wondering what we ordered, it's beast burgers, available nationwide. chris ordered his chris-style. chandler ordered the chandler-style. obviously i got the beast-style. for those of you that
have had our burgers, comment down below
which one you like best. obviously mine's the best. you already know the deal,
we're at another store. stop subscribing so much. it's hard to give away all the money. how's it going, sir? can i buy everything in your store? - well, maybe not everything. - can i buy a lot of things in your store? - i'll let you buy most of it. - most of it? i'll take it. cart for you. cart for you. cart for you. (rock music) (ahhhhhhhhh) (shopping cart crashing) - do you think i can
fit this in this cart? all right, let's give it a shot. oh no. - [off screen man] oh-no! - carl, help. carl, help. (laughing) oh dear god. - you got this. - help me get it in my cart, man. all right, i'm gonna go to the front of the store now. - go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. - we got a kayak. everybody needs a kayak. - everyone does need a kayak. while chris and carl are
being absolute idiots, me and chandler are gonna clear off racks. - out of the way. this is the smart way to shop. why doesn't everybody just use these? - jimmy, what happens if 50
million people subscribe? - if 50 million people subscribe? - yeah. - i have to give away $5 million. if enough of you do subscribe, you could technically bankrupt me, but it's for charity, so who cares? - i care. i care. - we have 21 carts full of stuff. am i allowed to buy it? - absolutely. - let's do it. and don't worry. we're not keeping anything we bought here. we're actually taking it to somewhere you might recognize from a previous video. what's up. we're back, man. - mr. beast, how you doing? don't tell me you went and
bought out another store? - i wanted to, but they said i couldn't. so just like last time, i got a bunch of u-hauls out front. - well, most of your stuff is gone, so this will be great. - all right, boys, bring it on in. i'll save you some time, time lapse. and now that this is done, i wonder how jacob is coming along. (bell gongs) (drums playing) oh my goodness. - yo. what? - this looks like a quarry. - so much has changed. look at how the car is
entrenched in the middle. that is pink comedy. i'm gonna give him some hints. huh! you're probably wondering
why am i standing here? - i am wondering - i don't have any reason
why i'm standing here. i just like standing here. (ding) let me see if i can make
the hint a little better without giving away. dig here. - dig there? (high pitched laughing) - [off screen man] let's go. - i'm gonna, i'm gonna get to work. i'm definitely gonna find them now. (rock music) - this is definitely killing me. the anticipation of
just finding these keys. (rock music) - no way. (breathy mumbling) (rock music) - what's that? (rock music) - [all] yeah! (excited yelling) - yes! - show the camera. - yes, ah ha ha ha! (excited celebratory yelling) - congratulations. (swooshing)(fading airy noise) - don't die on me. (chime dings) please don't die. (fading airy noise) - the whole day i've been digging. - would you say it's worth it now that you have a brand new camaro? - beyond worth it. (laughing) oh my god. - after like 15 hours of
searching, you found it. what do you wanna tell the world? - if you guys ain't
subscribed to mr. beast, i would definitely subscribe to him. this is like the greatest event that i've ever had in my life. - [mr. beast] it was past dinner time. and if we don't feed
chandler, he gets hangry. - [chandler] i'm hungry. - you're hungry? - [creepy male voice] yes. - [mr. beast] so we decided
to go through a drive through and while we were at it,
give them a surprise. - we are now at cookout. are you happy? - yes. not yet actually. i need to get food. (high pitched accelerated voice) - here's your food. - [chandler] can i have the breakfast? - since you made chandler
happy, here's a $10,000 tip. (laughs) - ohh! (laughing) - [mr. beast] what do you think? - thank you so much. nothing really happens to me like this. i'm gonna use it, help my parents. - [mr. beast] uh-hum - we've been going through a lot. thank you so much. - we have now returned to
the money mountain again although it's not really
a money mountain anymore. - now it's kind of a money hill. - we're making great progress. let's keep it going. this is michael, a random subscriber. basically until the end of the year, every time someone
subscribes to my channel, i'm giving away 10 cents. and michael 100,000 people subscribed. so i could give you this $10,000 in cash. that's for me? yes. - are you serious? - yeah. - thank y'all so freakin' much. this is great. this is gonna gonna change my life. - and after giving $10,000 to a random minecraft
streamer with two viewers. - oh my god. (laughing) i'm gonna be in a mr. beast video? - our last donation went to someone who genuinely needed the help. joe, one of my friends told me that your, your son has fallen on hard times. could you tell us about that? - they're testing him for cancer. - mmhmm. - and they believe it's kidney cancer. he was born with one kidney. - i assume obviously, the stuff going on costs a lot of money and just in such a crappy
situation like that you should never have
to worry about money. so, here is $30,000 in cash to help alleviate some just worries. - there's $30,000 in here? - and it's going right to you. - thank you. (voice choking up) - no problem, man. - it's a lot of ones. - is a lot of ones. so, every time someone
subscribes, we give away 10 cents. and so this is about 300,000 subscribers. this is yours. we're just trying to help
as many people as we can. and while we're on the topic, the the last $40,000 we have here, we're also gonna donate to st. jude's just since we were thinking about it, it just kind of felt like
the right thing to do. - thank you, everybody. and it's good that people like mr. beast can go out and help people that need it. - cancer sucks. from now until the end of the year, every single time, someone subscribes i will give away 10 cents. by literally hitting
that subscribe button, you are taking 10 cents outta my pocket and giving it to people
like we had in the video. if you're already subscribed don't unsubscribe and
resubscribe, that will do nothing. it will only work, if you're a new subscriber. i dare you guys to try to
bankrupt me by subscribing. you won't. (explosion) [music] serving six thousand [music] [music] oh, oh, oh. [music] (explosion)