- this is the brand new oculus quest 2. and when oculus reached out and wanted to sponsor a video on it, i couldn't say no. there are three brand new
features with the quest 2. first of all, it is more powerful, it also has better screens, and importantly, it is now cheaper. three things i love to see
with a new piece of tech. so why don't we take a look
and see what we've got here? whoo, you know what? i like this packaging. i feel this is a very
like kinesthetic on this. so this is the 64 gig model, although you can also opt
to go up to a 256 gig, i don't need a knife. what am i doing? there's a pull tab right here. the first quest really was
a huge step forward for vr. now there had been completely
untethered experiences in the past, but that was really the
first headset in my opinion, to really kind of take
it up to the next level, and the quest 2 improves
on that even further. so, whoo. it's a really nice texture. i'm really excited to try this. i mean, i've been making videos on vr ever since the early prototypes
of the oculus rift back in, is it 2013, 2014? and to imagine that we've come that far to something which is
completely portable like this is really exciting. couple things to point out, we do have a usb-c port here, as well as we have a headphone jack. and on the other side, we
just have a couple of buttons. so we have our volume rocker over here and i assume that is the power button. we also have the upgrade
oculus touch controller. so if you use the original quest, these are going to be familiar, which makes sense because this is still backless compatible
with original quest games. what you get here is a design language which is slightly more
influenced by the rift. you have an upgrade battery doors should be a little bit more secure. and of course you still have all of your buttons on the inside, as well as you have your
triggers and your inner triggers which is especially
important for a vr game. you want to be able to
reach down pick things up, shoot, etcetera. so now why don't we
actually spend some time using the quest 2? because there are a
number of major advances. first of all, we gotta go for the good old classic beat saber aka the game that i always stuck at. eric no, i love getting
into a good rhythm here. i would say the comfortability is nice. so i'm using this completely standard. so there are optional like head straps. so if you would like
you can upgrade to that. i'm using it in the stock configuration. it seems fine. i've gotta give a shout out to the audio. so of course you can hook up a standard headset if you'd like but what i find is that it
actually is really impressive at how good the audio is with literally just the headset itself. and especially if you're
listening to my mic right now, you should actually really hear it. like if you're around
you can barely hear it, but it almost sounds like you're using like an open pair of headphones, huh? do the head tracking is so good on this? i think that's one of the things that's really impressive about
the quests 2 specifically but even the original quest had this. just how good the tracking is. it does such a great job
of placing you in the world and consider you don't
have a bunch of sensors or anything around, it's all being done inside the headset with the inside out tracking. this is really impressive. (upbeat music) oh, that's fun. okay, this is bad. i don't like this. ah, no. oh, that's a fast one, that's a fast one, get over here. (gun shots) rubber ducky. i won that. (gentle quirky music) so this is my first time
trying dirt rally 2.0 running on the pc via oculus link. well okay. i'm in the game. yep. all right. that's a, that's the thing. one of the interesting
things about oculus link is that it actually isn't just like, you're just
plugging the headset dumb. i mean, it's still
handling all the tracking but the pc is handling
running the actual game now it's all being transmitted via usb-c. it's impressive at how, like, as i move my head around the cockpit, it how natural it feels. right. i know a lot of times when you get... okay. you get experiences that
aren't completely optimized. it can feel a little bit uncomfortable but i'm impressed with just
how smooth this really is. so with the help of my
good buddy, eugene here, let me give you a little bit of a closer look at the
oculus quest 2 headset. now, one of the first things is really something that you can't see but rather you feel. the headset is about 10%
lighter than the original quest, and that makes a big difference. i mean, you have to consider that this is essentially
a full vr experience with all of your sensors, all of your cameras, your processor, your battery, screens, everything
in this head-mounted unit which means that that
weight is a very big deal. the heavier it is the more
uncomfortable it's going to be. so the thing is with the quest 2, what you're getting is a pair of higher resolution displays. so each eye gets a very
high, nearly 2k resolution and on top of that it runs
at a higher frame rate. so whereas the original quest topped out at about 72 fps, this
goes all the way up to 90. and to be fair content
does need to be optimized to take full advantage of the resolution and of the frame rate. but just like when you get a new console generation for example developers will continue to
update their games and get them up and running as best as
possible on the quest 2, but the nice thing is
that is still compatible with all of the original quest 2. everything will work and some
games will look even better and run even better. now in large part, that is because the quest 2 is also
a much more powerful headset. so as opposed to the snapdragon
835 in the original quest, this is using the specific full vr qualcomm snapdragon xr2 chip set. what that means is that now you get a tone more performance, you get more ram, you also get things like wifi 6 built in and that will enable much more
graphically intensive games. and that is a multiple
generation step in performance. and all of that being said, the quest 2 is cheaper. this is a 64 gigabyte model and it comes in at $299 with your upgraded touch controllers. there's not-
- [ken] very unsettling. - i can't quite, he doesn't
really wanna hold it. he's not very, look, at least he has his wrist straps on. always be safe kids. always be safe. we don't wanna wee this thing. so one of the things
that i really wanna try the, i know you were
using earlier is virtual. is it virtual desktop? - [ken] virtual desktop. - all right. so right now i am looking at the monitor on the pc that i think
is over there somewhere. now, what this is cool for is if i say oh yeah, i'm gonna open up
the nvidia control panel. oh, you haven't set up your
nvidia control panel, ken. - [ken] no.
- all right. we're going to go on to
some of the dark cinema. now i'm going to go
into the computer room. so ever since the early days of vr, you've been able to watch
video and it makes sense right? vr is a very natural
home theater experience, but with something like this, it really is kind of next level, right? so i'm sitting in this room, i've got the zuck staring
down at me, very kindly, but essentially i can just sit here and look at what looks to
be essentially a real desk. i have a keyboard, i have a
computer, i have the monitor. and i think where this
really kind of helps to push the experience forward is in the resolution. of course you have to
consider that these screens, these pixels are very
close to your eye, right? so when it comes to vr, the ability for you to have a very high
risk experience is important for these sort of to avoid the screen door
effect essentially just to look more realistic. i mean, yeah, of course. can i see some pixels? yes, but i mean, it's pretty impressive. like i can easily sit
here and watch this video and it looks almost as sharp as if i was looking at a real
monitor right in front of me. it might not be time to throw your original quest in the garbage but if you were interested in mobile vr, i do think that the oculus quest 2, is hands down the best option. in fact, i'll go farther than that. i think the quest 2 is the best way to play vr period at the moment. of course huge thank you to oculus for sponsoring this video. but i mean what i say. if you were at all interested in vr the quest 2 is absolutely where it's at. eugene agrees. (upbeat music) - [ken] does he? yeah. look at the smug look
of satisfaction on his face. he can't believe how
great the graphics are.