semiconductor manufacturing 
international corporation   (smic) is china's flagship semiconductor foundry.   it's a leading player in challenging tsmc, samsung 
and intel in the semiconductor technology race. founded by the intensely driven richard chang, 
smic ruthlessly hired from its taiwanese rivals,   outcompeted its chinese ones, and 
quickly established itself as the top dog   in china's burgeoning semiconductor industry. in this video, let's look at smic - china's 
fiercest semiconductor foundry player. smic was founded in january 2000 by richard chang. 
chang is an interesting fellow. born in nanjing,   his family fled to taiwan along with a 
million other ethnic chinese migrants.   the waishengren, as they are 
called, grew up in taiwan but held   deep roots to the chinese mainland. 
i did a video about them earlier. many of the waishengren, disoriented 
and feeling unwelcome in taiwan,   emigrated to other locales like the united states. 
chang was one such person. after graduating from   the prestigious national taiwan university, he 
got a master's degree from the state university of   new york in buffalo. then he and 
his wife went to work for texas   instruments in dallas. tsmc founder morris chang 
(no relation) also worked at ti for over 25 years. at ti, richard chang oversaw foundry work in east 
asia for twenty years. he did well there and took   early retirement in 1997. returning to taiwan, 
he started a foundry of his own - worldwide   semiconductor manufacturing corporation 
and eventually sold it to tsmc in 2000. richard soon then itched for another opportunity 
and china came calling with cheap land,   water and electricity. he crossed 
the strait and started smic with   $1.6 billion of investment from goldman 
sachs and a few other private equity firms. chang and smic soon found themselves in 
fierce competition with grace semiconductor.   grace was founded around the same time 
as smic by two political heavyweights. the first was winston wang, son of powerful 
taiwanese industrialist wang yung-ching.   wang yung-ching founded one of taiwan's biggest 
chemical empires, formosa plastics corp. the second heavyweight was jiang mianheng, 
son of chinese paramount leader jiang zemin.   naturally having such connections 
would put grace at the very forefront   of the chinese semiconductor foundry industry. 
smic knew that it would have to compete   extremely hard in order to distinguish 
itself from the competition. they did. as it turns out, being a rich guy's son 
does not help much in competitively running   a semiconductor foundry. for richard chang 
and his team, this was their second startup   and they knew how to get things done. in contrast,   winston wang had little experience in building 
and running leading edge independent foundries. grace could not keep up. in the same time grace 
took to get its first foundry to mass production,   smic had two in shanghai, a bunch more in the 
hopper, and was already prepping for their nyse   ipo. grace settled into a number two 
position and the chinese government soon   shifted their favor to smic in terms 
of subsidies, cheap loans, and more. by 2004, less than 5 years after its founding, 
smic had ascended to become the fourth biggest   player in the independent foundry industry. 
only tsmc, umc, and singapore national   champion chartered semi were ahead of it. 
and it was rapidly eating up market share. two big things you need when running a 
startup foundry is a fab to make the chips   and a lot of talented people to run it. otherwise,   i'm not sure you might have a feasible 
business. you might have a hongxin. smic's business model at the time is not all 
that different from an nfl or nba sports team.   a foundry needs an expensive multi-billion 
dollar fab to do their work. likewise,   a sports team "needs" an expensive multi-billion 
dollar arena. neither of those organizations   can raise or risk the billions of dollars to 
self-finance one. so, get someone else to do it. unable to tap bank financing, smic thus went 
to chinese municipalities around the country   and got those local governments 
to finance a fab's construction.   smic would then move into the fab on a contract 
basis to operate it. the local government would   get a fee against the future revenues and the 
opportunity to build a "semiconductor cluster". kind of like how nfl teams 
like to say that on game day,   local businesses benefit from all the increased 
traffic around their billion dollar stadium.   you should google those claims to see 
how it turned out for those local cities. as smic ascended up the chain and the leading 
edge process got more and more expensive,   these capital expenditures became onerous 
even for the richest local governments.   smic began performing a type 
of regulatory arbitrage,   shopping their services to cities around 
the nation looking for the best deal. for example, in 2005 smic was 
running two factories in shanghai.   then the next year they engaged 
with the cities of chengdu and wuhan   to start foundries there too. two more joint 
ventures at a cost of some $1.5-3 billion each.   it allowed smic to grow extremely fast while 
keeping their actual invested capital low. in a previous video, i likened advanced 
semiconductor foundry work to baking.   and like baking, accumulated, unwritten 
experience is critical. for the life of me,   i can't make a decent cake even if the steps 
in the recipe are right in front of me. this is a broad generalization, but 
foundry work is in many aspects an   art that cannot be easily boiled down into steps.   not everything is or can be written down - so 
it is critical to have with you the best chefs. both grace and smic aggressively recruited 
overseas talent to fill their ranks,   including taiwanese from tsmc and umc. being a 
startup, these companies lured such employees   with the promise of stock option riches. at 
the time, salaries on the chinese mainland   were far below that which can be found in the 
us or taiwan. a senior manager in china for   instance would get paid a quarter or a third 
of what that same person could get in the us. grace handed out stock options but 
smic gave out them out like candy.   for certain key tsmc employees, smic offered 
80,000 shares and stock option equivalents.   such amount of shares at the $17.50 us ipo 
price in 2004 would be worth $1.4 million. not to say that those people actually got 
their hands on all of that $1.4 million.   i have worked at startups myself and it is very 
common for that 80,000 to quickly get diluted   as the company goes through 
funding rounds and the like. beyond the potential riches, people 
gravitated to smic for two other reasons. first, many of these engineers were ethnic 
han chinese living and educated overseas   and wanted to give back to their 
country. of smic's founding 1,000   engineers, nearly 40% of them were chinese 
citizens returning to the motherland. second, many of them felt that they had hit the 
glass ceiling in an american or taiwanese company.   big companies have often established 
ranks of who gets promoted,   and there is often more qualified people than 
open spots. we should also mention the possibility   of racism against asians and chinese in 
the united states - the bamboo ceiling. to join smic would be to step into a 
silicon valley-like environment and   get in on the ground floor on something exciting.   to build something for the future and 
glory of china. hard to say no to that. by 2003, tsmc realized that grace and especially 
smic were growing faster than it should have.   for example, smic had managed to 
ramp up on 0.18 micrometer process   in just 12 months. this is without a prior track 
record of success in doing such things before. this was implausible and implied the loss of 
private, extremely valuable trade secrets.   thus in that same year as smic 
prepared to go ipo on the nyse,   tsmc launched a pioneering intellectual property 
theft lawsuit against its mainland rival. this lawsuit was filed in california and 
interestingly enough tsmc asked for a jury trial.   it would not be resolved for 
many years, but when it did,   the jury found that smic had indeed 
infringed on tsmc intellectual property. the lawsuit went back and forth. but when 
the dust finally settled six years later   tsmc won. they received a 10% stake in 
smic. richard chang resigned in 2009   after attempting a counter-suit 
against tsmc that failed. at the same time, tsmc took to battling 
smic directly on its home turf. in 2004,   tsmc won a public debate in taiwan for 
permission to enter the mainland market.   in 2007, tsmc's first fully owned 
foundry began operations in shanghai. this appears to be a page out of their 
playbook. in my video about singapore's   chartered semiconductors, i mentioned 
tsmc founding a semiconductor foundry   joint venture with the goal of battling 
chartered on their home market.   it helped to weaken the overall market enough 
to decelerate smic's once-torrid growth. throughout this entire saga, smic lost money. 
the company had been running on subsidies, loans   and the money it received from 
investors but the company could   not consistently turn a profit on its 
own. there are a few reasons for this. first, there were the upstarts. smic was 
the largest chinese foundry but it was   not alone. other chinese cities 
saw what was happening in wuhan,   beijing and chengdu and wanted in on the action. 
they began creating small smic's of their own,   saturating the market and bringing 
down profits for everyone else. one upstart takes place in the city of ningbo, 
the place of tsmc founder morris chang's birth.   ningbo zhongwei was founded in 2002 
by a team of mid-level tsmc managers.   they bought used equipment from tsmc and 
invested $150 million of taxpayer money   to build a leading fab capable of 
outputting 40,000 wafers a month. the fab reached the 10,000 wafers 
a month benchmark behind schedule.   the company could not reach the necessary 
scale as tsmc's equipment was very old   and required expensive servicing 
($100-150 per hour maintenance).   eventually the company folded and it sold 
their factory to electric car maker byd. another reason has to do with the product 
being sold. in order to make sure some of   its early fabs got online as fast as possible, 
smic devoted them to creating commodity dram. the fabs indeed got up and running really 
quickly, but making a commodity product   meant low margins and intense competition. it is 
the same issue that chartered dealt with. you need   to ascend the value chain and get to the leading 
edge. that means a lot of investment into r&d. too many startups. too much supply sloshing 
around. not enough differentiated product. and of   course some of the most economically challenging 
years with the global financial crisis.   where can you get the money to invest in the r&d   for better product if you are not 
making money from your products?   is the chinese government just going to have 
to constantly pump billions into your company?   i guess they can, but how long can you put 
money into a company that doesn't turn a profit? singapore owned chartered for 22 years and 
for the majority of those years chartered   churned out losses despite becoming the third 
largest independent foundry in the industry.   just because you have a lot of money doesn't mean 
you like rolling it up in a cigar and smoking it.   that was what's happening with smic so 
long as it did not own and create the   technology behind the processes 
themselves. they were trapped. over time, local city governments like wuhan 
and chengdu began to feel uncomfortable about   these seemingly unending operating 
losses. after richard's resignation,   chengdu and wuhan terminated the 
partnerships. chengdu sold its   fab to texas instruments and wuhan decided 
to go it alone with xinxin semiconductor. smic hired a new ceo in 2010 and sought to dial 
down on growth in order to achieve profitability.   if richard chang was uber's travis kalanick 
- the vicious, driven founder determined   to take over the world - then his successor 
david wang was more like dara khosrowshahi -   trying to turn the company 
around and make a profit. david wang did not last long. he resigned after 
being losing a vote of confidence a year later.   tzu-yin chiu led the company as ceo until 2017,   whereupon he helped stabilize the 
ship and turn out a very small profit.   he retired in 2017 and was succeeded by 
co-ceos zhao haijun and liang mong song. liang is infamous in taiwan for jumping 
ship from tsmc to samsung and helping them   reach the leading edge process node. it seemed 
that he had been doing the same with smic too,   leading a team of 2,000 r&d engineers 
to ready the 7nm process node.   he realized just how important it is 
to research, create and thus own the   process technology itself. not to take shortcuts 
like chartered did in partnering with others. per recent reports, it seems 
like they are getting close   to high volume production with it. this is great 
news for the chinese semiconductor industry   and represents a return to form 
for smic after many long stumbles. smic remains the premier foundry on the china 
mainland. their recent billion dollar ipo on the   hong kong and shanghai markets after a 2019 
nyse delisting makes it clear. the chinese   national government is starting to invest real 
resources in actually developing an indigenous   semiconductor space from the ground up. smic will 
likely be its centerpiece for making it happen.