- all rise "tech court" is now in session. today we're going to be
determining which is better, razer or logitech? the loser company will immediately be completely dissolved and disbarred from existing on this planet. and to decide we have
two certified experts. - it's us, the experts. - [narrator] welcome to "tech court". meet ken, a corporate lawyer,
and professional money waster. ken claims he's an expert
in gaming technology and all things cheap,
but will it be enough? enter rick razerhead, a loyal
razer customer for years who has volunteered to
defend his beloved company against logitech's blatant lies, and hopes to earn a hefty compensation paid entirely in razer gold. - to begin, i'll be
accepting opening statements on behalf of razer and logitech. ken, go first. tell me why logitech
deserves to win this trial? - ladies and gentlemen of the jury, our esteemed viewers
all over the internet. - actually, it's just me, it's just me. no one else can decide,
yeah, it's just me, i get to decide, i got the gavel, so, whatever i say goes. continue. - pretty sure that's a dictatorship, but- - [ken] yeah-
- yeah. - [ken] this is not court, that's just- - look at my hair, what is it? does it not give you dictator vibes? - that gives me some- - nope, nope, nope, don't
finish that sentence. - logitech has been making accessories for decades at this point and they're even used today on some really interesting excursions, down the depths of certain places, that's how good logitech is. they are a trusted brand. peripherals for gaming,
peripherals for professional use. you got all kinds of stuff and that is why they're gonna win. they're tried and true and trusted. what else is there, matt? - your honor, i'm just a simple country lawyer named rick razerhead. i just know that razer is
made for gamers by gamers, and i wanna get the
products from the people who are made by the people who
wanna get the products from. - objection. - no, you can't object, no. i get to object you. oh wait, no, you can object, it's fine, but i don't have to allow your objection- - you can't object during
an opening statement. - that's a good point actually. the court accepts both opening arguments. now, gentlemen, i'm gonna
ask you to raise your right hand. i don't know. and, do you swear to tell the whole truth, the mostly partial truth
and nothing but truth? you have to say yes, otherwise,
we don't get to continue, so, you have to tell the truth. - oh, i sure will. - yes, your honor. - stop with the voices!
- [matt] well now you, why do you need to be
the southern lawyer now? - [austin] gentlemen, can
you please give me exhibit a. - box fell apart.
- [austin] wow! we're gonna demerit that
for a insufficient box. - the box fell apart damn it. - mr. razerhead, would
you like to go first? - exhibit a, may i bring your attention to the razer deathadder version 3. so, this is a wired mouse
with a lovely braided cable. it is only 59 grams. it's practically floating away, all right? - objection, speculation. - sustained, sustained.
- speculation. - [austin] let him continue. - that's not speculation,
that's on the damn box. - objection, you're full of (slap slams) - that may be true,
but it has a 30,000 dpi that is over 30,000 times more than something with only 1 dpi, okay? it has a flex speed. look how much speed this
flexibleness adds to it. what more could you possibly
want for in a $70 package? this was so good that they
made not once, not twice, but thrice. - strong words from the razer side. i will accept that entire
argument in its entirety without any questions. ken, would you like to
defend your logitech mouse? - do i have to? - you do, actually. i will
hold you in contempt of court. - ladies and gentlemen of the court, this is the logitech g, g pro gaming mouse, which is the same price
as this guy over here. - but how do i know which one to get? is logitech g? is that
the name of the company or name of the mouse? - silence.
- [ken] let me talk. let me talk.
- silence. - let me talk, let me talk. - withdraw. - here's the thing, i know it's good on the box
because they do the one thing that logitech products allow you to do, keep playing, which is the thing that
you're doing right now. here's the mouse. bare bones basic, but it's
got more lighting than yours. i got a center one, look at that. though i think this is
for dpi, but there's not, it doesn't matter, doesn't matter. what? what? - who wants to be, who wants to be fixing their
dpi from the top of it? i'm gonna accidentally hit that, no, my client has very conveniently hid their dpi button on the bottom. - what? you want me to
lift my 85 gram mouse? no, this is convenient,
ladies and gentlemen. - 85 grams? am i a weightlifter? no. i want one that's so smooth, that it's gonna slide
across the desk like that. i have one more question for the- - i'll allow it, but this is
the last one before we move on. - it says it's for esports,
but it only has 25,600 dpi where my client has 30,000. - i some would argue with there that if that made all the
difference in the world, then i think it's a skill issue. - gentlemen, it is time to
bring forth the keyboards you've brought into this fair court to determine which one is
truly the superior option. ken you may begin. - so, this is a logitech g413. and much like my friend over here, these keyboards are the
same type of switch, they're the same price-ish in
the same ballpark at least, and they're roughly similar feature sets, except this one, your honor,
is built way better than his. and i can prove it to you
by typing on both of them. - he may have some fancy
moves over there about build- - certainly not a fancy box. - about build quality and, let's go ahead, put that where it's good, but mine here once again,
is the blackwidow v3. - [austin] sorry, once again? - [ken] they, they, they.
- how was once again? - because they said i want the blackwidow and then they did a blackwidow v2, and then, hence forth again, indubitably said let's make
a v3 because it's so good. i don't know much about keyboards. so, your honor. - [ken] your honor, your honor. - this is, you're on thin
ice, you're on thin ice. - i do know that my keyboard has one thing that your keyboard does
not, and that is full rgb which makes this a really good board. - so yes, i might not have
rgb on my logitech board, but that's okay. what really matters is the typing test because you are gonna
be typing on this thing, that's the most important part. - [austin] i will say
these sound very similar from where i'm standing over here. can you provide any evidence
that the sound of a keyboard impacts its actual performance
in any meaningful way? - if you start hearing
while you're typing, you can use that as
referential data for you to- - [austin] referential? - yeah, referential data for you to change how you type or whatever. - [austin] mr. razerberth.
- stop. - [austin] mr. razerberth
please, would you like to- - [matt] raisin. - [austin] raisin cane?
- raisin bran? - [matt] raisin bran, raisin bran. - [ken] fiber?
- crunch. my opponent claims that the
sound of a keyboard matters, but if you're elite gamer, and we all know that
gamers don't compromise then why are you listening
to a keyboard anyway? you should be listening to
the footsteps behind you or the epic kills you're getting. - objection, that's coming later. - withhold. but, i had said i'm just
a simple, simple lawyer, i'm not an expert on keyboards, but that is why i brought
in a surprise witness. - a witness? you're on thin ice counsel. - may i bring to the stand, sweet67. the producer for "this is," who types at a whopping
1400 words per minute. - wow, that's fast. - 14? - [austin] all right, i'll
allow it, i'll allow it. - 1400 words? - he said it. he already sworn truth. - kinsey just go. and she has wrote out 14
novels this afternoon. please.
- impressive. - take a little, typey-wipey
and let us know which one. (keyboard clacking) - now, this is the upside down technique, most people don't know about it, but you can get even more speed. - literally just wrote shakespeare. - no, actually, hold. - [matt] what? - hold, hold. let me do some adjudication. - [matt] sure.
- so, i'll accept that you have
brought in an expert witness to the court, we will allow- - surprise expert witness. - [austin] we will, you're supposed to file that
paperwork two weeks in advance. - i did just my opponent
did not look at it. - however, i will say that the
court will be accepting this with a grain of salt, given that this is a potentially
biased tampered witness who has other nefarious- - how dare you? - you'll need more salt 'cause
that's definitely what it is, looks like that. - how dare you accuse me of
tampering with a witness. i really wish i had brought
smaller bills today. - [austin] wow! - [ken] hold on. - i will have order in this
court that will be stricken. - i wish i had smaller bills. - [ken] we need to, we need to check the- - [kinsey] oh, that's so sad. - we need to check the legitimacy. - the shenanigans in my
court will not be tolerated. counsel, if you try that one more time, i will have you forcibly
tossed into the river. all right. - i'll give you $20 to
let me keep doing this. - unacceptable. - i mean, we got, we got
in your expert opinion- - i am calling the bailiff
to throw you in the river, if you open your word,
mouth one more time. - word mouth? - i will throw the gavel at you if you open your mouth one more time. - i think this one feels nice. - let the, let the record show- - objection. - my surprise witness who is in no way, shape
or form tampered with. - it feels like 20 bucks. (all laughing) - unfortunately, that's a
hundred dollars a keyboard, but- - oh, i mean like it feels
like 20 bucks more then- - all right, i will have order. it is time to move on from this incredibly dubious segment of shenanigans and incorrect information. now, we move on to our next
head-to-head comparison with exhibit c. - can i get my money back? - i don't know. - this court is now back in session, let us continue with exhibit c. please bring forth your
exhibits for the court. - ah, so, here we have
the razer blackshark v2. - v2? i thought all of
your products were v3s, is this not good enough to be a v3? - not quite yet, but we're getting there. they have great passive audio isolation, i'm not a hundred percent
sure, the volume of my voice, but also what people are saying to me and i'm not even plugged into anything. so, just to circle back
around a little bit. my client was worried about the, the volume of the clicky of my keyboard. i can't hear anything with those. so, i feel pretty good. these have advanced
passive noise cancellation. am i talking loud? - no, no, you're fine champ. - [matt] great.
- [ken] you're fine. - i urge counsel to please
plead the fifth, plead it. just stop talking please. - ladies and gentlemen of the court, logitech is not about the
crazy frills or showing off, looking like the crazy aesthetic, it's all about the simplicity. this is the logitech g332,
which mind you, not a good name. these feel heavy, which might sound like a ding,
but they feel substantial, they don't feel light, oh- - objection, your honor. - that passive- - sustain, sustain. - what's wrong with being heavy? - so good.
- [austin] counsel, counsel? - holy! - that may be true, but let him finish. - yes, i did finish. - i'm confused and would
like to change the subject of conversation immediately. - like we want matt to do, this has a really clever function. if you are talking with
your friends on discord, not that you know what that's like 'cause you don't have any. - objection, your honor. - sustain, it's true. - what? - high five. you can flip the mic up to mute. - may i make an
observation? oh yes, i can, 'cause i'm the judge, i
can do whatever i want. so from this distance, having
not touched your headsets, i will say that while the logitech does have a very nice red and
black color scheme to carry- - you can't even say the name. - order outer, you will
not interrupt the judge. i will throw you into the other river if you continue to talk. - i'm not contempt of court,
your contempt of court. - i am about to give you
a piece of compliment. i'm gonna give you one
piece of compliment. - [matt] i'll take that.
- "one piece" is pretty good. - [austin] the blackshark though looks significantly more
plush, more pleasant. i like the cable. may i ask defendants/counsel/whatever
you are today, how much are these headsets? because i will say that i'm
very interested in that razer, very interested. - i redacted mine, so i don't really know. - they're both-
- [ken] no, no. - a mere $5.
- oh really? - times 12. so, $60. - get this off of wish.com. - well, his is redacted, he doesn't know. - i agree. - i have the information right here. - [austin] okay. could you please share it with the court? - the razer blackshark v2 is $80. - [matt] that sounds correct, but- - [austin] wow! - [ken] and the logitech is $60. - in lieu of this hearing, we are willing to drop the price to $60 to compete with our competitor. in fact, we're gonna do 59.96. - we can only judge based on the evidence that has been brought forth to the court and clearly the razer is
significantly more expensive. all right, please present to the court your arguments for these
handheld gaming consoles, which are definitely not
as good as a steam deck. - your honor, this
device looks really cool. i've only used it for all of- - [matt] objection, what world? what world can you say
that that looks cool? - all right counsel, can you
please introduce the products that you are already squabbling
in my courtroom about? - this is the logitech g
cloud and it looks amazing. look at these color scheme,
look at how thin it is. it feels ni... it's relatively nice to
hold and most importantly, it costs $350, which as
my opponent will tell you, is cheaper than his. and i think for cloud
gaming, which is very stupid, you wanna probably spend as
little money as possible. - and can i just confirm that that is, this price of a steam
deck or a switch oled or two switch lites almost. - yes, actually. and imagine what you'll think when you find out how much
that one is, the razer one. - your honor, may i
introduce the razer's edge, which is the catchiest name of them all. 'cause once again, if i go
and ask for the logitech g, am i asking for a mouse or am i asking for a cloud gaming device? - excuse me, it's the g cloud. - this costs a mere $400,
the cost of two switch lites, but guess what? it's got
the power to go with that. it has a built-in storage of 128 gigabytes and micro sd expansion. - as does the switch. - well, but the switch doesn't have a 2400 by 1080 resolution
screen, running at 144 hertz. if the switch or this g cloud
tried to run it 144 hertz, you know what it would do? nothing, 'cause it can't do it. - it's a good point, it's good point. - and it weighs almost nothing. - oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, counsel,
what did you just do there? did you just break your item? - like the autobots of old,
i transformed and rolled out. now, if i don't wanna use
my awesome gaming tablet, i could throw that away, and it comes with just great fidget toy. but the best part about this,
is in fact the controller, which is, can be hooked up
to any usb c cell phone. can yours do that? - [austin] quite the compelling argument. - no needed to do that. - would you like to cross
examine the defendant and explain why your logitech
makes any sense at all? - ladies and gentlemen, the logitech g cloud has
a long lineage a pedigree of products that have come before it. - how many gigs of ram
does your device have? - enough. - it has four. and how
much storage does it have? - enough. - it has 64. and how many snapdragons
does it have in there? - eight.
- it has zero because it has just generic
letters and numbers. - what is it running? - 6 a55 cores. - ah, that's not good. may i ask you present the option
of a 5g and i'll allow it, but how much does said 5g option cost for that particular razer device? - i'd ask the, i'd ask counsel
to rephrase the question. - cannot rephrase it any way there. - yes. - [ken] answer the man. - $400 for the wifi model, how
much does the 5g model cost? - objection, your honor,
you're leading the witness. - i'm asking a simple question
and i will be answered. - well here's the thing. with a current data plan
on verizon wireless- - here we go, jesus christ. - customers can receive the
razer edge 5g for $0 down and a mere 14.99 a month. - 14? - on a two year contract? what's the msrp, if i were to say pay cash for that particular option? - well, your honor, i would say that we as
verizon unlimited llc- - answer the man. - we have done a lot of market research. - no, no answer it. - and we have determined- - is it $500?
- that- - is it $600? - customers- - is it $700? - are really appreciated
of the price point of free- - 800? 799? - i'm gonna make a rare exception here. ken, you actually may use your device to look up the price of his, and i will accept whatever
you're about to tell me because i am getting no information. - it is $600. - united states freedom units? - united states freedom units, sir. - [matt] your honor, i would would like- - which is almost double. - objection, your honor. i would like the- - you know what? i will admit. - [matt] you'll only pay $600
if you are to purchase it. - order, order, i've heard
enough, i've heard enough. i was very close to giving a clean victory on this particular head
to head to matt and razer, but the egregiousness- - i have-
- of trying to, objection! - i have one more surprise witness. i call to the stand, the judge. - you can do that? - [matt] yeah. here's the paperwork right here. - i'll allow it out of pure curiosity. - may i enter into evidence exhibit 1? - okay, yes, my motorola razr. - exhibit 0.5, actually. - your motorola what? - razr plus. - your motorola razr. - oh my god. your honor- - he's doing the thing,
he's doing the thing- - speculation. - there's no e in this razr, which means that it is a
completely different company. and the fact that you were
trying to pin me on morals and trying to besmirch my name by draging it through the mud and that assuming that i had
been paid off by big razer- - it libel. - libelous activities. so, i'm gonna have this
stricken from the record and we're gonna continue on. how dare you? - it was worth a shot. - [ken] your honor.
- how dare you? we are now going to proceed
to the closing arguments. this is the most important
part of any trial. counsel, i will say you're
both on thin ice at this point. - logitech has had a
wonderful history of stuff and their current slate
of products are wonderful, solid, reliable, great feature set. are they gonna give you
all of the same features and whatnot as the razer? is the razer gonna be shiny?
is it gonna be colorful? yes. but they appeal to the people
that want shiny things, idiots. - the razer products, well, maybe not the best at
some is not the worst at others. and all around, i think
give you a better ecosystem. a place where all of your
peripherals can get together, they can be one under the chroma harmony. whereas here, who knows how many apps, how many softwares, how many dongles, you need to use logitech. - g spot's the place to play. - the point is, when i got my
razers, i had one software. - it was quite aggressively
installing itself, i will add. - but that's because it
wants to be your friend so aggressively. i've come back to my opening statement of razer is for gamers by gamers. - so, i have heard both of your arguments, good arguments, bad
arguments, unhinged arguments, really stupid arguments,
really questionable, objection! - [matt] your honor, your honor. - i have the stand.
- some point. - what? what? - so, we're gonna begin with the mouse, and i will say that on
this particular instance, i'm very much going to
rule in favor of razer. the razer mouse looks better,
is significantly cooler, and most importantly,
i liked your argument. for the keyboard, i will say, that again i was very inclined to accept the wisdom of the razer. it looked better and it seemed
like a much better device until the shenanigans of
the witness were involved. the witness that you
did not, i have checked, filed the proper paperwork
for which means that been dis- - [matt] your honor, if you look here. - objection! - [matt] the paperwork is right here. - [austin] the paperwork was not filed under the correct subsection. i will give the keyboard
point to logitech. all right, that moves
us on to the headset. now, the headset, i will say, was the most clear cut of them all. and i will admit that the price has very much flummoxed me here. i've been told many different things over the course of these proceedings, but i must give the point here to razer. i will say that the headset
looks significantly better, although, i will hold you
both in contempt of court for not mentioning the
most important thing about your headsets, the audio quality. at not at one point, did you tell me how they
connect to the devices, what they sound like,
what the drivers are? - your honor, we're gonna
blame the court on that one. i knew we forgot something on that one. - which brings us to
exhibit d, the handheld. this is an area where i found
it very difficult to judge because both of them are very stupid. in a world with the switch,
phone or steam deck, neither of these devices
make any damn sense. you trying to tell me- - as much as he even likes cloud gaming. - [matt] i love, i love
cloud gaming so much and these are the dumbest
goddamn devices ever. if you wanna get people into cloud gaming, you need a sub $200 device,
and even that's too high. - objection, he's gonna rant forever, i agree with him, but. - i was tempted to say
that the g cloud was dumb because it is quite dumb. and the $350 price tag, even
though it is typically on sale, is egregious and terrible. then i heard about the razer. and i will admit, i have some
experience using the razer. i was very excited for it when
i first got my hands on it, and then immediately was disappointed because the battery life is terrible and it really is no better than a phone. and the worst thing is, it's so expensive. $400 for wifi, $600 for 5g. i'm gonna give you, i wanna give you, neither
of you points for this one, but i can't believe i'm about
to say this for this exhibit. i am going to give the win to logitech. i think the g cloud actually
is very slightly better, especially because it is
typically a little bit cheaper. that my friends, if you're
keeping score at home, is two points for logitech
and two points for razer means that it really does
come down, quite dramatically, to the closing arguments. now, this is the point where i will admit both of you have failed. neither of you gave me
any reason to understand why i should choose logitech over razer. you're out here several. - you talked about chroma, which is probably the worst reason why i would wanna get razer because it is essentially malware that constantly tries to prompt you to do, as soon as i plug the keyboard
in to any computer ever. mind you, you didn't even argue anything. you just said logitech, it exists i guess. and then you finished it. - [ken] logitech is
logicool, don't you know? - [austin] that's not an argument. - [ken] it is. - i am just disappointed. (matt and ken laughing) so, i'm going to say that as much as this goes
against my better judgment, i am going to give the victory in this episode of "tech court" to no one. both of you fail. both of you need to move,
go back to the shadow realm. and thank you very much for
watching "tech court" episode 1. subscribe and ring-a-ling
the ding-a-ling button, if you found this insightful,
entertaining, and delightful. and until next time, i am going to go and puff
my wig up a little bit. the first one of you who
rubs my head gets the win. what?