today i'm going to tell you something about 
circles, okay. so you know some things in math we   do because like we're trying to solve a problem,
right, like we want to get a rocket ship to the   moon or whatever; and some things in math we do 
because we've just been doodling on a piece of   paper and wondering what's going on. so this is 
more in the like paper doodling category. here's   the basic question: can i fill up let's say an 
infinite sheet of paper with circles? the way that   i've said this to you this seems really obvious 
right? like i just draw a bunch of circles, i   can draw as many as i want, i cover the entire 
sheet of paper. but if i impose some rule, like   say i don't want any two of the circles to touch 
each other, right, to like overlap or even share a   single point in common then this is a much less 
obvious question. this is called a partition by   the way, when we don't allow them to touch each 
other. the very first thing i'm going to have to   do is draw one circle. so once i've drawn this one 
circle then i have actually now two questions to   ask. one is, can i cover up the the inside of the 
circle with circles? the other is can i cover up   the outside of the circle with circles. now one 
of those two questions is actually pretty easy   to solve. if i want to cover up the outside of 
the circle with circles i can just do this. so   take the same center for all my circles and just 
increase the radius - of course you want to imagine   that i'm doing this for every possible size of 
circle bigger than my first one. but that'll cover   up the entire outside of the first circle that i 
drew. and since trying to answer this question  always starts with a first circle we can always 
do this sort of infinite piece of the paper is   not really any problem. so the question really 
then is i have this disc inside of a circle;   how can i cover it up with a bunch of circles 
that don't touch each other? the first thing   you might want to do is just like on the outside 
just shrink your circle sizes to cover up all of   the points inside of this disc. there's a little 
problem with that plan, which is what happens   at the end of that game right? so we have these 
smaller circles but but we're never going to get   a circle that covers this center point. but you 
say well well well well well, i only tried this   particular covering of the disc, so maybe instead 
why don't i put like a circle here and a circle   there and maybe a circle like this with different 
centers and different sizes. it turns out that the   answer is that you actually cannot do this, okay? 
you are always going to miss at least one point   when you try to cover the inside of a circle, so 
the disc, with circles that don't touch each   other. and the reason why is because of almost 
exactly the same thing that goes wrong with my   red circles. if i start trying to cover a disc 
like this with circles; well let's think about   this center point. if i can cover this disc with 
circles, that center point has to live on one of   them. now the circle that it lives on, whatever it 
is say this big, it can't be too large right? cos if   the the width of the circle, the diameter of this 
circle, was large enough then it would run into my   first circle. so that forces a size restriction 
on the circle containing this center point. but   that second circle has its own center point; so 
we draw the center there and that's got to be   in some circle to but it has to have pretty small 
width as well. and so when i keep looking at these   centers, whatever circles they lie on, the widths 
are getting smaller and smaller and smaller and   so we're all shrinking down. and at the end of the 
process we're going to end up with a single point   here, just like in the original example, that cannot 
lie on any of the circles. all right, so we cannot   cover this plane right, this 2-dimensional space, 
with circles. why don't we add a dimension and work   with space instead? once you do that you can cover 
the entire 3-dimensional space with circles.  it's not going to have some sort of simplification 
like this where i cut it into an infinite piece   and a finite piece; because if i think about a 
circle living in space - right i've got everything   sort of all around my circle, i don't have two 
separate pieces that the circle cuts space into   okay. but this is actually to our benefit. so let 
me show you how to do this.
we're moving to 3 dimensions we need a whole new piece of paper.
right so here's say 2 dimensions and here is   my magical coming out of the paper third dimension. 
if i think about a 3- a 2-dimensional sphere   living in our 3-dimensional space, right 
so you know like a globe or something, just the   surface of a globe. if i remove two points from 
that sphere then i get something that i can cover   with circles. so here's my best sphere, let's take 
away these two points okay. i'm going to partition   my sphere into circles just by drawing circles 
around these missing points. again there's lots   and lots of these, infinitely many of them, but 
hopefully you can see that they sort of stack   on top of each other to hit every point on the 
sphere that's not one of my two x's. so this is   the- the trick that we're going to use: any sphere 
when we we get rid of two points can be covered by   circles. we're going to take our 3-dimensional 
space and i'm going to put some initial circles on   there. so let's put some coordinates. all right so 
i'm going to draw an initial set of circles in my   3-dimensional space; but actually it's just 
going to be like in those first two dimensions,   i'm not even going to think about the direction 
coming out of the paper yet. so here's one and   here's another one. supposed to be a circle! okay so 
all these are of width 2, radius 1 circles with   centers on these integer coordinate points, right. 
so i've got these circles sort of spaced out on   the flat part of my 3-dimensional space. how 
this helps me now is if i draw a sphere centered   at the red point here, okay, then let's think 
about how my red sphere that i drew hits the   black circles that i drew first. the black circles 
all live in this flat part of space, given you know   the desktop or the brown paper right. and so the 
circles on the brown paper, the sphere that i drew   will only touch the circles exactly where it hits 
the brown paper too, right? so i want to think about   slicing my sphere off right by where the brown 
paper is. and look at what happened here, so how   many points did i hit any of my black circles? 
i hit two points. that was just for the example   that i drew, but actually if you sort of stare at 
my construction, the location of my circles were   chosen very carefully so that any sphere that 
i draw, that's centered at this red point, will   hit exactly twice one of the black circles. and 
so that's how i get my circle covering of this   3-dimensional space. first i draw this family 
of black circles, they go on in every direction, and   then i draw every single sphere that's centered 
at this red point. now any of those spheres can   then be covered by circles by themselves and so 
each of those spheres can be covered by all of   these circles and putting them all together i get 
a way to cover the entire 3-dimensional space   with circles. then you might ask, why am i caring so 
much about circles? a circle after all is just like   the collection of points in a 2-dimensional 
space which are some fixed distance away from   a center. well that's actually what a sphere is 
too if i'm in 3-dimensional space instead of   2-dimensional space. so maybe the right question 
to ask is can i cover 3-dimensional space with   spheres that don't touch each other? in fact for 
almost exactly the same reason that we couldn't   do the 2-dimensional space with circles you 
cannot cover the 3-dimensional space with   2-dimensional spheres. you're always going to 
have something left. no matter what you try to do.   2-dimensional spheres can be used to cover 
5-dimensional space but this very simple- well okay,  a little complicated but if you stare at it for 
a little while it's not so bad. this very simple   construction for circles in r3 has not so far 
provided a guide for how we might might expand   that up a dimension for spheres in r4, right? 
4-dimensional space. in general i think the   question is is not completely known about if you 
take a sphere in some number of dimensions and   you take a space of some number of dimensions, 
when can you say it's possible to partition   the space into spheres of that dimension? what are the prime divisors of each element of this  sequence look like?
- that seems like a harder question!
- well it might be a harder question   depending on how specific you want to get. but so 
what i mean by the prime divisors of elements of   the sequence is we have these factors, so each 
number factors into prime numbers as long as   we're ignoring zero here. so 3 is already 
prime; so this is actually a really good point   this is exactly what i want to talk about, is that 
if you just randomly do this - choose some number c....