i made a square hole in the sheet of paper, and a coaster, a circular coaster. i fold the paper in a mysterious fashion, and i can pass the coaster through the hole, really passes both directions, and i haven't started cheating. it really is going through the hole. and yet when i put these out, the diameter of the coaster is bigger than the diagonal of the square hole. what is going on? i didn't stretch and didn't tear. and yet when i fold the sheet back, in a judicious way, the coaster does go through, the coaster which is bigger than the hole. how is this possible? i am willing to give away the secret for free, on this special occasion. it has to do with the interplay between, the intrinsic, or inner dimension, of the sheet of paper which is 2 dimensions. and the fact that the sheet evolves and flourishes in the ambient 3 dimensional space. there is some elbow-room, there is some ambient space. so dimension 2 and dimension 3. in the following sense. first, i can fold the paper in a naive way like this, in which case the largest gap that i can try to pass the disc through, is this gap. that used to be, as you can see, the diagonal the square hole, and that was too small for the disc to pass through. but that's not the only thing that we do. now, i take this sheet of paper, and start twisting it until those two sides get aligned into a straight line. and as i do this, as i twist the ends, you can see that the part of the paper starts raising above the floor. that's escaping into the 3rd dimension, taking advantage of the fact there is extra room there. and when those two sides align completely then i can squash and crease. and, by the way, when i do that, i should shift by one in order to create this gap. now the gap that we have created then is this gap, which is larger than the previous gap, because this gap used to be not the diagonal, but the sum of those two sides. and if you remember pythagoras, you have gained an extra factor of square root of 2, which is a bit more than 40%. so the secret of success when you make this toy is to drill out the hole, so that the diagonal is slightly shorter than the diameter of the disc which is for surprise, but the sum of the two sides is slightly longer than this diameter. and that's possible because there's that extra of window 40%. and this is all possible, because when we do this maneuver, you're allowing the whole thing to come out into 3d, and then come back down. this fact that you can escape into the ambient 3rd dimension and come back in, this extra journey that you are making into the extra degree of freedom gives you this wonderful magic. [robot noises]