in 2022, the cdc found that nearly 42% of 
americans can be classified as "obese". "obese" meaning that their adult body 
mass index or bmi is higher than 30. obesity by itself is responsible for up   to 14 years of lost life expectancy - 
mostly through cardiovascular disease. the united states spends nearly $200 billion 
a year treating the diseases and other health   issues relating to obesity. these costs 
are projected to rise in the near future. the easiest way to treat obesity is through 
changes in lifestyle and behavior. however,   this often does not produce 
significant or lasting weight loss. the most effective intervention is 
bariatric surgery - directly making   changes to the digestive system. however these 
come with all the complications of any surgery. in between these two axes, we have 
pharmacology - weight loss drugs. however,   the history of weight loss medication is 
long and full of missteps and failed claims. in this video, we are going to 
look at the long and difficult   history of weight loss drugs ... before ozempic. ## beginnings doctors have known obesity to be a 
problem since the days of antiquity. for instance, we have the writings of a 
2nd century greek doctor named soranus   of ephesus. he describes the issues 
of obesity and prescribes exercise,   heat and massage plus laxatives and purgatives. yes. vomiting. roman doctors regularly 
recommended that obese individuals vomit   in the middle of the day - taking 
a mixture of vinegar, salt, water, and half a cup of hyssop plant. in 956, sancho i - unfortunately nicknamed 
sancho the fat - became a king of leon - a   historical northwestern region of the 
iberian peninsula. but after two years,   he was overthrown. the nobles did not 
respect him because he was too obese. after trying many remedies, sancho's grandmother 
finally went to a brilliant jewish physician in   cordoba named hasdai ibn shaprut. shaprut 
gave sancho a treatment called "theriaca". theriaca dates back to the first century and has 
64 ingredients. but the primary stuff was opium,   ginger, cinnamon, myrrh, saffron 
and castor oil - a laxative.   it worked. sancho lost enough weight to ride 
a horse and returned to retake the throne. a thousand years later, sancho took 
his rightful place on the tennessee   band kings of leon and delivered the 
chart-topping single "sex on fire". as our understanding of the 
body and its anatomy progressed,   we were able to introduce new treatments 
based on that understanding. and thus we   come to the'80s, and some of the first 
science-based treatments for obesity. ## weight drugs people become obese when they 
eat more calories than they burn. therefore, a weight loss drug reverses the obesity 
by making you do the opposite - eating less   calories than you burn. there are three general 
mechanisms by which said drugs can achieve this. one, a drug might try to suppress your 
appetite. in doing so, the person eats   less on a daily basis, creating a caloric 
deficit that causes the body to burn fat. many of the weight loss drugs mentioned 
here try this approach - often by   modifying the release or reabsorption of 
certain neurotransmitters in the brain. two, a drug might try to increase energy 
expenditure. by raising your metabolism,   the body consumes more energy, creating 
a caloric deficit that burns fat. caffeine or ephedrine do something kind of 
like this - though they aren't approved as   weight loss drugs. there is also another drug 
we will discuss later that does this too. or three, a drug might try to interfere with the   digestive system's ability to ingest 
and take up fat from the food you eat. the history of weight loss drugs over 
the past century or so is long and full   of complicated words i will inevitably 
fail to correctly pronounce. but keep   in mind that they all basically 
work in one of these three ways. ## thyroid hormone in the late 19th century, 
growing industrialization   and its changes in lifestyle created 
new demand for weight loss drugs. it had been known for a while now 
that the thyroid gland can increase   or decrease metabolic rate. doctors 
studying a form of hypothyroidism - a   failure of the thyroid - noticed a variety 
of symptoms including a puffy weight gain. when treated with sheep-derived thyroid extracts,   those symptoms - including the weight 
gain - went away. by the early'90s,   clinical reports on using an extract of the t3 
thyroid hormone for obesity began appearing. doctors started using thyroid extract 
to treat obesity but were limited by   its drawbacks. these are similar to the 
symptoms of hyperthyroidism and include   abnormal heart rhythm, dangerously high 
heart rate, and possible heart failure. ## the quacks this century was the time of quack 
medicines claiming to cure cancer,   syphilis, gout, hepatitis, the whole lot. they rode on the growing newspaper 
and cheap bulk mail industries,   promising curative powers to people 
and preying on their naivety. these medicines had entertaining names 
like allan's anti-fat, frank j kellogg's   safe fat reducer, marmola, newman's obesity 
cure, dr. gordon's elegant pill, and so on. despite the variety, almost all of 
these quack medicines were made from   similar ingredients - some combo of 
thyroid extract, vomit-inducing agent,   an appetite suppressant, a 
diuretic, or a stimulant. ## food and drug act in response, the us congress passed 
the pure food and drug act of 1906, which was supposed to allow the fda to go 
after adulterated or misbranded food or drugs. however in 1911, the us supreme court 
diluted the act's effects in the case   "united states vs. johnson". the johnson 
in this case was selling "dr. johnson's   mild combination treatment for cancer" which 
not-so-mildly claimed to cure almost any cancer. the supreme court ruled that the act 
only addressed false claims about the   ingredients inside the product, not its 
potential therapeutic effects. that is   because disease cures are often a matter of 
uncertainty and conflicting medical opinions. so the next year, congress passed the 
sherley amendment to ban misbranding   claims on drug labels. the supreme court promptly   ruled again that these claims not only 
had to be false, but also fraudulent. the end result was a loophole that would 
last for fifty years - hobbling efforts   by the fda to cut down on these quack medicines. ## dnp in 1933, dr. maurice tainter at 
stanford reported on the weight   lowering properties of 2,4-dinitrophenol 
- which i shall thankfully call dnp. dnp is used to make explosives and 
it itself explodes too. we also use   it as a sulfur dye, wood preservative, 
photographic developer, and herbicide. how did dr. tainter at stanford 
- always those stanford doctors   making trouble - notice that an herbicide 
happened to cause you to lose weight? he had been studying cases of accidental 
dnp exposure by french soldiers during   world war i. workers at the french 
factories producing the stuff had   also been claiming that they grew thin 
after several months working there. dr. tainter's experiments were done 
with razor thin margins since dnp is   so toxic. but he eventually found that 
if you take a daily dose of about 3 to   5 milligrams per kilogram of initial weight, 
you can lose about 1.5 kilograms per week. the initial side effects were skin rashes 
and neuritis. which seemed okay at first.   but it would not be until later that other, more 
serious conditions like cataracts were discovered. ## how dnp works how does it work? well, let 
us go to the mitochondria. the mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell, 
producing the atp where cells get their energy. dnp moves protons across membranes, 
allowing protons to leak through the   mitochondria's inner membrane. this 
interferes with normal atp energy   production and makes it less efficient. 
this extra energy is wasted as heat. by throwing a wrench into the 
energy generation process,   the body is forced into a calorie 
deficit and has to dip into fat reserves. the downside of course is that dnp's 
heat generation effect can seriously   overheat the body - causing hyperthermia and 
tachycardia. throw in the fact that dnp is a   freakin' herbicide and we have substantial risk of 
fatal intoxication after repeated administrations. ## the dnp days despite these very real risks, there was 
tremendous interest in dnp right at the start. stanford clinics supplied over 1.2 
million dnp capsules to patients and   over a hundred thousand people took them. 
many were affected by the side effects. in 1935, the fda issued a note of concern but   did not have the authority to regulate 
medicines and keep dnp off the market. that changed in 1937 with the elixir sulfanilamide 
crisis. sulfanilamide was a new antibiotic for   venereal disease and sore throats. a manufacturer 
added raspberry flavoring and a chemical called   diethylene glycol to turn the hard-to-swallow 
pills into a pleasant-tasting liquid for children. today we use diethylene glycol to make solvents, 
plasticizers, and antifreeze. they gave children   antifreeze, and a hundred of them died - slowly 
and painfully - from irreversible liver failure. after a frantic federal investigation, 
congress passed the federal food, drug,   and cosmetic act of 1938. now with 
the authority and facing over 2,500   reports of dnp-induced cataracts, 
the fda removed dnp off the shelves. dnp later showed up again in the 1980s when a 
physician in texas started to make and sell it   himself. it is still sold online under names 
i shall not mention, mostly for bodybuilders. ## amphetamines amphetamines cause the rapid release of 
chemicals like dopamine into the brain. this not only gives the user a rush 
of energy but also increases their   metabolic rate. a higher metabolic 
rate often leads to weight loss. these amphetamines truly have a 
dark and light side. on one hand,   there are real uses for them like for 
reducing sleepiness in narcolepsy. on the other hand, the way 
they release this intense   rush of neurotransmitters can easily cause 
addiction and negative social behaviors. in 1933, an american pharmaceutical 
company called smith, kline and   french started selling an amphetamine 
called benzedrine as a decongestant. two years later, a pair of doctors at 
uc san francisco did a study using this   amphetamine to treat narcolepsy. 
they noted that the patients also   lost weight. another amphetamine study 
for psychiatric issues noted the same. ## amphetamines and weight loss smith thought about marketing its amphetamine 
drug as a weight loss agent but worried that   doing so would taint its reputation 
as a respectable psychiatric drug. however by then wildcat companies were 
already selling it for that purpose.   and then widespread use by the end of world war 
ii pushed smith to move beyond these concerns. in 1947, the fda approved the use 
of methamphetamine desoxyephedrine   for the treatment of obesity. three daily 
doses of 2 milligrams could lose up to 25   kilograms of weight. the only major problem 
being that they are insanely addictive. ## rainbow pills and now we come to the infamous "rainbow pills". in 1941, a pharmaceutical company called 
clark & clark started producing diet   pills made from amphetamine sulfate, 
thyroid hormone, and other things. a   simple combination that did not break any 
new ground in weight loss drug chemistry. clark called them clarkotabs. however, 
their wide range of fun colors - which   gave the mistaken impression of 
personalized treatment - branded   them as "rainbow pills". these would be 
very popular over the next two decades. rainbow pill firms sold directly to 
physicians who sold them to patients,   cutting pharmacies out of the loop. by 1967 there 
were about 5,000 doctors and 2,000 practices in   this business - earning $250 million in 
fees and another $125 million in pills. ## the fda watches and all this was somehow legal,   albeit acknowledged by industry 
professionals to be of low ethics. internally, the fda struggled over whether 
it should take action. for one thing,   these rainbow pills slipped 
through loopholes in the system. the 1938 food drug and cosmetic act mostly 
concerned labeling and grandfathered drugs   that were already in the market at 
the time of passing. furthermore,   the rainbow pills' ingredients were already 
approved for other therapeutic uses at the time. furthermore, there was little evidence at the 
time about whether or not these rainbow pills were   actually hurting people. any expert the fda might 
bring up to testify about the pills' downsides,   the companies can bring their own experts to 
counter-testify and poke holes into the argument. the fda was also hesitant to interfere 
with how the doctors did their job. and   the rainbow pills' firms made so much 
money and marketed so aggressively.   taking away the punch bowl in the 
party risked significant blowback. as it turns out, the rainbow pill dangers 
had indeed gotten out of control. but it   took major events outside of the fda 
to move them towards action. first,   a major piece in life magazine in 1968. a 
reporter without medical necessity to lose   weight went to 10 weight loss clinics 
and was prescribed over 1,500 pills. then, a senate subcommittee investigation 
identified over sixty deaths from rainbow   pills. they launched hearings into the industry 
and added a series of amendments to give the fda   more regulatory authority over drugs, allowing 
the fda to take more aggressive action. starting in january 1968, the fda seized 
over 43 million tablets from a dozen   manufacturers for false and misleading 
statements on their labels. in the 1970s,   the fda reconsidered amphetamines and its 
cohorts for use in weight loss entirely. ## amphetamine wannabes so we all agree that the amphetamines 
themselves were too addictive for wide usage. but can it be possible to create something 
similar without the addictiveness?   throughout the 1950s, the industry and 
the fda explored a series of what we call   "amphetamine congeners" - chemicals similar in 
structure and mechanism to the amphetamines. these didn't always turn out well. 
take phenmetrazine, approved in 1956   and released to the market as preludin. 
it is less excitable than amphetamines,   but it was eventually discovered 
that it too can be very addictive. when chronically used, preludin 
can cause delusions and paranoia,   which to me seems like a side effect 
rather worth mentioning. it got very   popular in the 1950s as a weight 
loss drug before being withdrawn. many of these amphetamine analogs - even those 
that haven't been pulled from the market for   safety reasons - ended up falling out of 
use anyway ... with one major exception: phentermine. it was first approved in 
1959 and is prescribed in combination   with exercise and diet as a 
short term aid for weight loss. today, phentermine is one of the 
most commonly prescribed weight   loss medicines in the united states 
with over 3 million prescriptions   and 75% market share of the us 
anti-obesity market in 2019. this is because it is widely available as 
a cheap generic drug. and per randomized   short-term clinical trials, it seems to 
work but only over the first 12 weeks. beyond that, it's probably run its course 
and the side effects can get dodgy. serious   complications associated with long term 
use include palpitations and tachycardia. phentermine makes up one half of 
another infamous chapter in the   history of weight loss pharmacology - fen-phen. ## before fen-phen
fen-phen's rise and fall was spectacular. the meat of the story takes place in the 1990s,   but its seeds were planted nearly thirty years 
earlier with a different drug called aminorex. another amphetamine-like drug that suppressed 
your appetite, aminorex was developed by an   american pharmaceutical company called 
mcneil and first sold into germany,   austria and switzerland as the 
over-the-counter drug menocil. but soon after its introduction, people 
noticed a ten-fold increase in cases of   primary pulmonary hypertension or 
pph within those three countries. this is a rare condition - usually 
occurring in one out of every 1-2   million people. and it is where the 
blood vessels inside the lung narrow,   raising blood pressure within the pulmonary 
arteries to dangerously high levels. without treatment, the condition can 
progress and become fatal. in one swiss   study, 71 people were admitted to the 
hospital. 34 eventually died from it. despite strong numerical evidence 
connecting aminorex to this pph epidemic,   scientists were not able to 
replicate it in animals. but   after the authorities pulled the 
drug in 1972, the epidemic ended. ## fenfluramine in 1973, fenfluramine hit the market. like all the other drugs that we 
have talked about so far here,   fenfluramine is an amphetamine congener - which   means it looks similar to amphetamine. but 
interestingly it worked quite differently. fenfluramine's key mechanism was that 
it helps release more serotonin inside   your brain - increasing feelings of 
fullness and suppressing appetite.   trials found that it was non-addictive 
and did not affect motor activity. it was first developed in the 1960s 
in france and was available there in   1964. the us approved it for 
weight loss in 1973. in 1981,   we saw our first report connecting fenfluramine 
to pph - two cases similar to that with aminorex. but it wasn't a huge deal. mostly 
because of the fact that not a lot   of people were taking it. and that is 
because fenfluramine - by itself - did   not work that well. people who lost 
the weight could not keep it off. ## an explosive mix but in 1979, dr. michael weintraub at 
the university of rochester had the   idea of combining fenfluramine with phentermine. the two drugs worked differently to help you lose 
weight, so he reckoned that perhaps their weight   loss effects might last longer - and their 
side effects minimized - when taken together. he ran a 28-week pilot study which 
found that the fenfluramine and   phentermine combo - ingeniously shortened 
to fen-phen - worked together fantastically. importantly, the patients who lost weight 
had significantly fewer complaints of   adverse side effects than if they had 
taken just one of the weight loss drugs. nih funded a longer term study 
which then found that by week 34,   patients taking the combo lost an average of 
15.9% of their initial weight - 14 kilograms   or 30 pounds - versus placebo, 
who lose 4.9% of their weight. note they also exercised and ate a healthy diet. it took some time for a reputable 
journal to accept the study,   but in 1992 the journal "clinical 
pharmacology & therapeutics"   accepted it. the publication blew 
the doors down on a fen-phen craze. ## the fen-phen craze fen-phen went viral. patients were calling doctors, demanding 
the meds for any price. as i mentioned,   phentermine was already a leading 
weight loss drug in the us. in 1991 it was mentioned a million times 
in prescriptions. by 1995, that rose to   2.3 million, and then a staggering 5 
million the year after that - 1996. fenfluramine's growth was equally mind blowing. 
as late as 1994, it was mentioned about 100,000   times in prescriptions - not a lot. that soared to 800,000 mentions 
in 1995 and 3.8 million in 1996. entire practices were devoted just to 
dispensing fen-phen. as the craze developed,   pharmaceutical companies wanted to 
market a more specifically-acting   variant of fenfluramine called dexfenfluramine. when the fda gathered to discuss dexfenfluramine's 
approval in september 1995, they were aware of   its connection to pph. they knew that it 
raised its risks maybe about 10 times,   but also acknowledged that pph 
was usually extraordinarily rare. in the first vote, the fda voted 5 to 3 to reject 
the drug. but one of the 3 supporters on the board   made an impassioned plea to pass the drug - citing 
the dangers of the growing obesity epidemic. weighing this seemingly rare pph 
condition against the well-known   and widespread downsides of obesity, the 
fda held another vote and passed it 6 to 5. upon approval in april 1996, the fda took care 
to mention several cautionary issues like the   fact that the data for its studies only lasted 
a single year. but yeah sure nobody heard that. dexfenfluramine hit the shelves in june 
1996 under the trade name redux along   with a massive advertising blitz and 
hype cycle. in the five months after   its release dexfenfluramine sold 1.2 
million prescriptions right off the bat. ## the fen-phen fall it was never intended for fenfluramine 
and phentermine to be taken together. when pulling the combo together, weintraub 
and his team basically assumed that since   these drugs had been on the market for over a 
decade that the safety kinks were all worked out.   in that first long-term study, the most 
widely reported adverse effect was dry mouth. and previously, nobody had never seen a 
case of an orally taken drug to affect a   person's heart valves. well, except for 
those involved in the aminorex recall. all the way back in december 1994, two 
echocardiography technicians at meritcare   health system in fargo, north dakota noticed heart 
valve abnormalities in two women taking fen-phen. over the next two years they tracked 
it. it was still quite rare - about   once a month - but it did seem to 
be always connected to fen-phen. in february 1997, a meritcare 
cardiologist called the mayo clinic   to compare notes. they collaborated 
on an article covering five cases. they then submitted this article to 
the prestigious new england journal   of medicine for publication. the journal 
initially rejected it, asking for more data. in june 1997, they submitted another 
article with another 19 cases for a   total of 24 and this was accepted. 
the article details a high incidence   of lesions on the valves of the heart in 
women who took fen-phen for 5-19 months. as it turns out, fenfluramine 
stimulates serotonin release,   activating serotonin receptors on the heart 
valves. these receptors stimulate growth of   proteins on the flaps of tissue in 
the heart valves called "leaflets". these leaflets open and close many times to 
let blood through without leakage and backflow,   so they have to be thin and pliable. so when we   stimulate that protein growth on 
the valves, it makes them thick. the thickened valve doesn't 
close properly and becomes leaky,   causing something called blood 
regurgitation. blood flows backwards,   forcing the heart to work harder. 
eventually, cardiac damage happens. considering the importance of the information 
in the study, in july 1997 the journal,   mayo clinic, and fda announced their 
results in a joint press release. a few months later in september 1997, 
fen-phen's producer - american home products,   now part of pfizer - was pulled from the market. 9,000 lawsuits were filed 
against american home products,   which eventually had to pay $3.75 
billion to settle the cases. ## cb-1 blockers fen-phen was a spectacular failure. but it was 
far from the only one in recent years since. you know how marijuana gives you the 
munchies? tetrahydrocannabinol or thc - the   active ingredient in marijuana that gets you 
high - is known to stimulate food intake. so drugs were developed to block one of these 
"cannabinoid receptors" - cb1r - so to suppress   appetite. the first drug was rimonabant. 
developed by sanofi-aventis in 2006,   it was found to reduce intake of high-fat foods 
in rats. the rats lost 21% of their weight. so they ran a two-year human trial 
in europe. that trial found that a   high dosage of rimonabant helped them 
lose 8.6 kilograms. sounds like a lot,   but the placebo did about 2-3 kilograms so 
really about 5-6 incremental kilos lost. europe approved the drug and it hit the market as 
acomplia, but the us fda held off from approval. this was because the trials implied that 
the drug caused depressive disorders in   about 10% of people. 1% of them even 
felt thoughts of serious self-harm. only a year after the drug hit the market, 
reports started popping up about serious   psychiatric problems and the drug was 
eventually withdrawn from europe in 2009. ## sibutramine in the 1980s, a company called 
boots pharmaceutical in the uk   was looking for drugs to treat depression. one of the drugs sibutramine was noticed 
to cause weight loss. so in 1988 they   commissioned a small eight week clinical 
trial, with promising results. in the larger,   2-year trial that followed, sibutramine 
cut weight by 12% after six months. this drug is another appetite suppressant. 
by blocking the body's reabsorption of three   types of neurotransmitters - norepinephrine, 
serotonin, and dopamine - it leaves higher   levels of them in the body. and thus 
we have more feelings of fullness. but unfortunately the drug also caused higher 
than normal blood pressure and heart rate.   the us fda approved the drug in 1997 for 
weight loss. but the european regulator   asked that the drugmaker run another 
study about the higher heart risks. so from 2003 to 2005, they ran 
a large randomized study called   scout. with the study going, the eu 
approved it for marketing in 1999. scout enrolled over 10,000 obese 
individuals and investigated whether the   drug impacted the risk for cardiovascular 
complications. unfortunately it did,   with 11.4% experiencing such a complication 
as compared to 10% in the placebo group. there were some issues with scout. for 
instance, it only enrolled high risk   patients. the patients also kept taking the drug 
even after it was clear that they weren't losing   weight. sometimes for even up to six years. no 
responsible physician would ever allow that. nevertheless, the results were 
sufficient. the european medicines   agency and the us fda pressured abbott - 
who eventually bought the drug after it   bounced around a bit - to pull it. 
and in october 2010, they did so. ## conclusion the growing obesity epidemic 
desperately needs a good solution. but the history of weight loss 
drugs has stretched for over a   century now and is full of high profile setbacks. from thyroid to dnp to fen-phen, many of 
these drugs have seen incredible hype and   hope. only to be withdrawn after new problems 
are discovered - often times many years later. furthermore, we must also confront the reality 
that most of the drugs we have today have humble   effects on your weight. maybe an additional 4-6 
kilograms after six to 12 months versus placebo. patients enter the therapy with 
unrealistic expectations of how   much weight loss they can produce. when 
progress doesn't go as far as expected,   it gets disheartening and they discontinue. now we have this new category of drugs 
- the glucagon-like peptide 1 agonists,   or glp-1s. i'll cover them in more detail down 
the line. they seem to be game-changers. but   the history has long been full of these 
false promises. we should be cautious.