- do you like 1080p? got
too much money lying around? think the world needs
a little more e-waste. well, as amd got an offer
for you starting today, you can get your very
own radio on rx 6,600, and brand new piece of 10
ap graphics card hardware at a price you won't believe. - but hold up can it
compete with the rtx 3060? and if it can, why isn't
andy talking about it? i mean, i'll gladly
talk about our sponsor. crucial, thanks to crucial
for sponsoring this video. get more done with crucial
p5 plus nbme ssd with up to 6,600 megabytes per second, sequential reads and a five-year warranty. crucial makes tech to last get yours today at the link below. (electronic music) whenever any gpu from amd
or nvidia is released, there's at least some kind
of reveal and anticipation leading up to it. heck even the rtx 3060, had an announcement a little
over a month ahead of time back at ces 2021. so why the radio silence
on this one? well, it might have something to do
with the ongoing supply issues that have been plaguing
the entire industry for some time now. i mean, amd might simply not see a
good way to launch these cards without stirring up controversy over yet. another thing that people can't buy, particularly since this
is using the same gpu, physically speaking as the
rx 6,600 xt right down to the eight gigs of gddr6 and
32 megs of infinity cash. the difference of course is
that these are bent down parts where even the memory is running
out of reduced bandwidth. so the rx 6,600 could
actually be good for supply. if these parts were
otherwise sitting on shelves collecting dust, and yet this review might be
the first you've heard about it outside of leaks. is there something amd's
trying to hide here? there's this press deck that we saw? sure looks good, but you know, we need to do some more digging
to find out for ourselves. and the best way to do
that is through benchmarks. we'll be sticking to windows
10 for our gpu bench until windows 11, gaming performance
is better understood, but we've got a total of five
gpu's to test today from both teams over this generation
and the previous one. well right off the bat at f1 2021, amd's looking pretty good with
a lead over nvidia's rtx 3060 with ray tracing off. but that predictably changes
when you turn ray tracing on the x team variance for
additional compute units that the nanex t lacks really do matter
for tracing those rays and ray accelerators that amd has
included aren't as mature as nvidia's, forza horizon four
picks back up with commanding lead for the 6,600 coming
within spitting distance of its biggest brother, actually, and just released for our six
isn't too shabby for the new gpu either. although it is trailing team
green by a few fps here, with ray tracing on however you could say, amd is a far cry from
nvidia's performance. (laughs) i can't believe i wrote that. as an aside, it's worth mentioning that fidelity fx super resolution is supported by that title and f1 2021. so you can squeeze a bit more
performance out of it at the cost of some visual clarity. fsr has really come into its
own as a better than your monitor, kind of the traditional scaler. but while it's good at that, it's not going to try and
recreate missing details like nvidia is deep learning,
super sampling well. so you can only expect it to do so much. back to gaming, hitman 3 puts up some good
numbers for the 6,600 that are just a hair off of what the rtx 3060 shows and assassin's creed
valhalla makes up about as much of a significant lead
as team green has in cs go. although the letter title's
already high frame rate makes this less of a win. the number of times the rx
6,600 dipped below 60 fps in all of these tests is three to the 3060's one. so while imperfect, it's not
a bad showing by any means. what's more while it's faster
for traditional rendering. in most cases, if you average
all of our gaming results, the rx 6,600 and the rtx 3060 traded blows so precisely that it is 100.00% the same performance, which is just mathematically impressive, just not objectively impressive, like the array of colors
available for lanyard's on lttstore.com, 10 bucks, a pop
and nine destructible too. unlike the rx 66 hundreds
productivity performance. oh yeah, this is a card
that is low on the ladder. so it's not going to be
purchased with this in mind, but it's becoming more of a
thing thanks to work from home. so here it is. davinci resolve turns into
some less than ideal numbers, even failing to match
the last gen 5,600 xt. thanks to that cards, greater compute unit count. the same story, more or
less persists throughout pugetbenche for creative
cloud, where only premier is even close. it's not even a contest with
luxmark or indigo renderer either where even the
more expensive xt model is thoroughly stomped. man. remember when amd had
productivity on lockdown, power consumption does bring
good news for amd though, as the rx 6,600 draws a peak
of about'8 watts throughout all the testing and comes in
comfortably below the power draw of the rtx 3060 for similar
gaming performance, pin pad it's worth keeping in mind that
neither nvidia nor amd have first party cards for these gpu's. so thermal performance shouldn't
be taken with a grain of salt, particularly given the overbuilt
cooler on our acs rtx 3060 still in a closed test bench, our dual fan xfs 6,600
doesn't do too bad comfortably sitting around the 65
degree mark where like the other cards, it maintains its peak core
frequency pretty well throughout the run. that brings up an interesting question. this is the same physical
silicon as the rtx 6,600 xt can we push the power limit
and core clocks to close the gap? well, we can match the core clocks, but with fewer compute units, we'd have to push it much
further in order to come close to matching the xt's performance. there does seem to be a lot
of headroom baked into these cards, largely thanks to their
aggressively low power target and low wattage requirements. that suggests that amd is
targeting system integrators and other power conscious folks by leveraging our dna two's
impressive performance scaling. of course your mileage may
vary greatly depending on the card you get. but still is the rx 6,600
even remotely worth it for yet another 1080p max settings graphics card. only if you thought the
rtx 3060 was worth it, which is probably a big fat, no, at $329, the rx 6,600 is steadfastly
keeping with the pattern of matching the rtx 3060 for better or worse. we'll have affiliate links for
these cards below in case you actually want to buy them. but realistically you probably
won't until prices come back down to earth. if however, we assume that we don't live
in the real world and consider it solely based on the msrp, you have to ask yourself some questions. do you want better ray
tracing performance? do you want better
productivity performance? then maybe you should look at nvidia, but if you just want to play games, then the rx 6,600 is a good
fit for amd fans or say linux gamers who enjoy an open-source
driver compared to nvidia's proprietary blob, get
subscribed by the way, because linus and luke are
doing a linux challenge where they actually run it on their home pcs. and you don't want to
miss that. i know i don't. of course these msrp are well
above the $200 price point. this level of hardware command
is a few short years ago. we've already discussed at
length why this is happening. so i won't repeat myself
here other than to say, yeah, it sucks. we're at me buying a gpu
in the real world today, i would go with a used
higher end previous gen card. you can actually find rtx
2080s going for as much as 3060's on the street, which is probably what the
rx 6,600 we'll go for once it sells through. even better, if you don't care about ray
tracing or productivity, gtx 1080 eyes are sometimes
going for even less than that. neither is actually a good
deal in an objective sense, but you've got to take
what you can get in this post-apocalyptic wasteland of
a chip shortage that we found ourselves in, but you don't have to settle
for bad segues to sponsors like msi. thanks to msi for
sponsoring today's video, emphasize spatium m470 nbme
ssd has a sequential read of up to 5,000 megabytes per second, and write speeds of up to
4,400 megabytes per second. you can do that up to 3,300
terabytes of written data. they run on a four-lane pci
express gen four interface with built-in data security and
error correction capabilities. you can get them in one terabyte
or two terabyte capacities in the m.22280 form factor. and they've got a five-year warranty. learn more today at the link below. thanks for watching guys. if you're feeling particularly frugal, go check out our recent video
on whether four cores is still enough in 2021. maybe we should do one
for older gpu's too. let us know in the
comments below actually. i think we did one recently, but it's kind of changing
now, the windows 11 is out.