- [mrbeast] we filmed a video titled, last to take hand off 1 million keeps it, so if you haven't seen that last video, go watch it now, because obviously
this video will spoil it. 3, 2, 1, go. last one of you to take your hand off this million dollar
stack of cash keeps it. mark is the winner of the
million dollar challenge. - no way, no way. - all right. so you now have 24 hours
to spend the $1 million. are you ready? - yeah, i'm ready. - let's do it. - we're starting off
today, grab what you want. - this, i can get that. - that was actually just a
joke, i told him to do that. what we're actually gonna
do is be responsible and try to set mark up for his future. obviously he's aware a
million dollars is a lot, but it's not unlimited money. so we're gonna make smart
purchases like a house, cars, and do some investing. - i need this, this, this. - [man] add that to the pile. - yep. okay, so i'm gonna get
this, probably for me, splurge a little bit on myself. - so here you go, sir. here are your three ps4's. - thank you, thank you. thank you. give me two. i want a nintendo switch.
- [man] all right. - two of them. - whoa, two, are you sure you
don't want the cheaper one? i'm just messing, you
got a million dollars. - he's rich, dab. - you have a million dollars. - i don't believe this is real. - it is. - man, this is crazy. - this is only a small
percentage of what you have. - i don't even know how
i'm gonna spend it all. this is unreal. - so here are your three
macbooks right here. - three macbooks, okay. - seven iphones.
- seven iphones. - that's insane, whoa. - that's a series 5. - two note 10 plus's. - of course, the new ipads as well. - [man] wow.
- thank you. - i don't know how much that was, but it's right there on the counter, wow. (register noise) - [man] are these three
macbooks all for you, dude? - they are for my wife, my
cousin, and my sister's friend. so i really ain't got much for myself, but i do got a lot for
them and i can't wait to see their reactions. - [man] all right, mark,
it's time to check out. one playstation, two playstations. - man, this is crazy. i am super grateful for this. i never would've ever
imagined in a million years that i would have a million
dollars to be spending here. - it'll make me cry, man. we just started, save
the sob story for later. - i like how all y'all just calm, like y'all do this all the time. (laughs) - so the total is $23,800,
which seems like a lot. okay, i mean, it is a lot. but in comparison to a million
dollars, it's not that crazy. - and you wild out, you bought everything you
could ever want from here. - exactly and it's not
even a fraction, wow. - ahh, cold. - that's right. - we got money to spend and we
got a little amount of time. - so we're here at a car dealership. it is like 90 degrees,
totally not freezing. and mark said he wanted to buy some cars, so let's go ball out, mark. - let's go. - all right, guys, it's
freezing, i'm cold. you should buy a car here. you still have to spend your 100 grand. i gotta finish paying for my first car. i just snot bubbled
everywhere, you just see it? - [man] oh, look at this. - [man] got the rims. everyone get in the car. - i never in my life would
think i would be driving or having something like
this, this is crazy. - so as you can tell, he clearly likes the car and obviously, it's a massive upgrade, so
that's why he's so excited. - one of the best moments of my life. - except for winning a million dollars. - [man] this car is so nice, mark. - yes, it is. - [man] let's go buy this one and you still have one
more car you wanna buy. - yes. - [man] how about this car, mark? - yo, these look like nostrils. you should get 'em. - [man] this is a luxury car. how much is this, mark? - i'm sold. - so this car plus the other car is about a $100,000 total, right? - yes it is. - can you confirm that? - yes, yes, i did the math. - okay, so you drove it
for only a few minutes? - yes.
- what are your thoughts? - i'm going to get it.
- okay. - all i need from you is
a signature right here, vehicles are yours. - you better not read
it, you're a millionaire. you ain't got time to read. - what if mark was like, yeah, how much is this coat rack? - two cars, i throw it in for free, you can take it out with you right now. - all right.
- take it with you. - we got the rack. we got racks on racks. - this is the best dealership ever. so obviously, paperwork for
buying a car takes awhile so he's gonna come back
and finish that later. we're gonna keep shopping. - i'm so excited. i'm gonna call my wife and
tell her about the new car. i know she's gonna be so happy about it. babe, i just bought us both
two new brand new cars. both of 'em are black, it is super nice. and i think you're gonna love it, yep. - [woman] you just bought both of us cars? - yes i did. - [woman] oh my god, wow. - you're gonna love it, like our life really, really just changed. (upbeat music) - [man] that's so much stuff. all right, let's go surprise your family. (upbeat music) (group exclaims) - i really do appreciate all y'all. so i went out and i bought out for y'all. - bro.
- [man] thank you. (man laughs) - i went out and bought
you a playstation man. here goes a vr. i went out and bought you a macbook. i know that you really
wanted an apple watch, so i went out and bought
you a apple watch. i got you an ipad. - never had one of these before. - accidentally bought
you a headset. (laughs) - wild accident, i'll take
this, why thank you, my guy. - [man] rock, paper,
scissors, you two for it. first off, shake hands and promise you won't hate each other. - i'ma hate you. - i will always hate you. (group laughs) - [man] rock, paper, scissors, chute, rock, paper, scissors, chute. (group exclaims) - i'm happy for you bro. - i say from the bottom of
my heart, you a real one. you're the real mvp man. - [man] excuse us, he has
more money he needs to spend. now we're in the mall, you still have like a lot of money left. you haven't even started
spending, go wild boys. you mentioned you wanted to
buy your wife a wedding ring. - yes i did.
- crazy. like the ring that she
has on now, it was cheap. so now i'm gonna actually
buy her a real ring. - let's do it. - yeah, gonna try to get it for her today. this is exactly what she wants, so, i think i'm gonna get this one. - [man] that's good.
- yeah. so mark dropped $20,000 on a ring. he has to order it so we
don't have it yet or anything. - why did you have to do me
like that in front of my wife? she watches these videos. - i'm sorry, i'm sorry. - [man] and in case some of you guys didn't watch this video right here, one of the rules was 10% of the
winnings goes to their coach and mark's coach was chandler, so chandler got 100 grand. - so, it's time for me to spend my money. i'm gonna get this watch right here. - [man] woo. how does that look? - nice. can i see this bracelet? - [woman] yeah, you like diamonds, i see. - i do, what you think, mark? - i love it. - what do you think? well, i'm gonna get this and that watch. - [man] $4,234, chandler. - merry christmas to me. thank you, mark and jimmy, i love you. - [man] now, we're gonna
take you to mark's house and just show you where he lives. so this is where you currently live. - yeah, this is my room. this is where me and my wife sleep and you see, there ain't no room at all. - [man] you can't even
open the door all the way. - right. this is my little cousin's room. - [man] your little cousin
sleeps on an air mattress? - yeah and he popped it, so... - [man] it's flat. - your cousin is sleeping
on an air mattress that like has a hole in it, so he is sleeping on the floor. can i just say i'm super glad
you won the million dollars? i really am.
- thank you. - the more you show us
around the more i'm like, thank god you won the million dollars. - we got the 2001 toyota camry. - i bought it like that. - oh, dang, how much did you buy it for? - $600. - so the current house we were just in, which is smaller than
the one you just bought, you actually split it in
half with another family. - yes.
- that's crazy. - technically anybody could
use a million dollars, but it's clear that this is
really gonna change your life and help you out in a positive way. and i'm glad we could
do that for you, man. even though it's not my money,
i'll take the gratitude. - i'm very grateful, like highly humble and grateful about this whole entire thing. i never experienced anything
like this in my life. show you the cars. (group exclaims) the gmc for the wife. - oh yeah? you got that for my sister? - yeah.
- it's mine now. (laughs) - [man] oh man. - i can't believe this is
about to be my house man. and wow. this is not...
- [man] chandler, did you find a secret passage? - narnia? - all right, chandler, come on. he's not there. - mr. tumnus, mr. tumnus. - [man] oh, here he is, oh wow. - this will be big,
especially for your wife, you and your sister,
and maybe your cousin. like how big is this compared to it? like three times bigger? - everything is like cramped together. i have no space. - you'll have plenty of room. - come on in everyone. - welcome to the new paint residence. i wanna start in the basement
'cause that's probably like my favorite thing out
of the whole thing, so yeah, let's go to the basement, look at this. (group exclaims) - the boys are hanging out. - man. - man, this is crazy bro. - man, look at you. - this house... - stamp it, i want it. (group claps) - let's go tell the realtor, then. - overall, i love the house. i'm definitely gonna get it. - this is the one? - this is the one. you guys really don't know
like where i came from. i'm so grateful for everything
that the mr. beast crew have done for me. like a week ago, i only
had $5 in my bank account. i didn't have nothing,
really couldn't feed my wife, i couldn't feed my sister, but now i'm able to provide for my family. so this is a really,
really good experience for me and genuinely from the
bottom of my heart, thank you. thank you.
- aw. - seriously, man, thank you.
- no problem. it just makes me happy that you're happy. - yeah, i am, i love it. i'd never ever think that i
really have a house like this and it's all for my family. and that's the most important thing to me. this is a journey and i
can't wait to see how far along we get. - so we'll get together
over the next few days, have you sign everything, pretty soon, you're gonna get this key right here. (group claps) - congratulations, you bought the house. - thank you all, appreciate it, seriously. - just for clarity, how much is this house? it's 165, right? - yep.
- okay. which is perfectly in the budget, 'cause we have a million dollars. (sad music) all right, well we're
gonna go buy furniture. smells good in here. yeah, so this, this thing
has a middle console... is chandler sleep already? (soft music) chandler, we've been
here for five minutes. - my wife is actually not here, so i'm not gonna be able to get stuff for like the living room... - so basically, he's not
making too many decisions without his wife, which is actually a very
smart and cute thing. you also have 100 grand you
have to spend today, so... - can i buy this lamp? - well, certainly. - all right, cool, thank you. - cars, clothes, food for my family, i was able to do that
because of mr. beast. please everybody, subscribe so
that he can keep doing videos like this, man and it
could be one of you guys, you'll never know. - mark, you've only spent 36,000 so far. - that is optional. a lot of that, he still has
to get his wife's approval on. for now, we're gonna add
that to the total, 36 grand. - ever since mark became a millionaire, he's really got an expensive taste. - yes, i have.
- geez. (upbeat music) - so this size, specifically, seven grand. - treat yo self. - an 82 inch tv. - i'm gonna get my family
some christmas presents. - [man] 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 13. - i'm gonna be broke. - [man] and see how you can
see yourself on that screen? so he is gonna get a g7x and then also this camera right here. so you're gonna have the
exact same setup we do, but you do need some tripods. - right. - we literally have a room
full of camera batteries 'cause some of our
videos require 10 cameras or that one time we filmed
a battle royale, 58, is that what we used? we used 58 cameras, so... we do our best, guys. - ooh. - this is a great deal. double it?
- double it. i think i'm good. i got the cameras, two pc's,
keyboard, mouse, headphones, two tvs.
- right. - got the sound bar that
sounded like a jet engine coming in here. - so chandler, what'd you get? - a lot of apple products. - how much does this come out to? - that's about, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12. - so, so far 12,000 of your
$100,000 has been spent? - no. (buzzer noise) - okay, so far, 16,000 of
your $100,000 has been spent. (scanner beeps) - [woman] $13,608.93. - i want the best
refrigerator they got here. i want a talking refrigerator. when i wake up, it be
like, good morning, mark. - [man] that's the one. - these are my dishwashers right here. - [man] your dishwashers?
- yes, right here. - but not anymore, this
is your dishwasher. - i think we good, but one
thing i do want to get, can i get... - [man] you don't have to do that. - no, i want to seriously. - he wants to buy me a galaxy watch. - galaxy watch, yeah.
- all right, so we're gonna get
matching galaxy watches? - yes we are.
- all right, so we'll get two of them. thanks man. - you're welcome. - so to wrap up this best buy trip, it says $29,054, we'll
just round up 30 grand. this is literally everything you'll need. your entire house will be perfect. - yeah, it is. and i'm so happy, thank
you guys, seriously. - no problem.
(upbeat music) - mark, do you want to tell
him what you plan on doing? - i plan on going to my mother house and i'm gonna give her $15,000. - [man] and then afterwards you wanna also give your mother-in-law $15,000? - yes, i wanna give my
mother-in-law $15,000. - [man] dude, that's dope, man. so i think we're good on
purchasing things for today. now we really need to sit
down and talk about taxes. i know a lot of you may be younger, but since he's receiving
a million dollars, he does have a large tax bill
that we need to talk about. - you don't have to pay
taxes, i haven't done it ever. - you do. so before we go any further, let's break down
everything we spent so far. you spent $23,000 at best buy,
$20,000 on a wedding ring, $100,000 on cars, $165,000 on a house, $30,000 on furniture, and
$30,000 on appliances. so far we've spent $368,000
on material things, $15,000 for the closing
costs of your house, $20,000 for utilities, bills, just random things that go wrong. and you've given away
$30,000, 15,000 to your mom and then the 15,000 you told me you want to give to your mother-in-law. so chandler won 100, that
was a predetermined rule before the million dollar
challenge, the coach of the contestant got 100 grand. and then also during the
last to stop biking video, you said this, you win
the million dollars, you wanna give him 50 grand? - yes, i wanna give him 50 grand. - aw. basically you promised jeremy $50,000. - yes i did. - and that brings your
total up to $583,000. so now this video's gonna
get a little more serious because obviously mark needs
to set aside money for taxes and also do some investing. (upbeat music) so mark didn't actually
receive all of the million because he gave chandler
100,000 and jeremy, 50,000, so what he got is $850,000. so mark wants to set aside $340,000, basically 40%, just to make
sure all his tax liabilities are covered. but now let's talk about chandler. you spent 16,000 at best
buy and $44,000 on bills. - wow.
- so you spent 60 grand. jeremy spent $30,000 and then
set aside 20 grand per taxes. so that's another 50,000. so that is exactly where 923,000 of the million dollars went. i'm trying to be as
transparent as possible because i know a lot
of you won't believe me that i gave away a million dollars, but i'm literally showing
you right here, we did. - he really did. - you have 77 grand left. i know you talked about
wanting to maybe invest 50k and then set aside like the other 23 for just other little
nuances here and there. and to be 100% honest, we went into an investing firm and they told us we couldn't record. so you'll have to meet
with the financial expert on your own. i really wanted to show you
guys where all the money went. i'm gonna just close this. - that's a million dollars gone in a day. - that's where the million dollars went. mark, it's crazy that all this happened because you put your hand on a million dollars and you
were the last to take it off. one of my goals for this video was just to make sure you don't get screwed over. like i genuinely think you will do fine. if you ever need anything,
just let me know. - thank you and i appreciate everybody. thank you for believing in
me and giving me this chance. - subscribe.
- he said it. [music] mr. beast 6,000 oh [music] [music] mr. beast 6,000 yeah you know his name [music] [music] he changed it once or twice
but i think it's here to stay [music] (explosion noise)