 ( music playing ) marques: today i'm going to
 talk with rik cordero,  a filmmaker who's directed
 music videos  with retro aesthetics
 for artists like nas,  q-tip, and the roots.  rik is here
 to help me compare  the analog look
 of digital cameras  versus the look of
 the original jvc camcorder. so, this is it.
what i was using  when i was making
 these music videos was the panasonic hvx-- something that bridged
the gap between consumer and professional equipment, and it had this lived-in look. great, let's see
if we can put it together.  ( music playing ) - this is now adapted.
- it is. - what i have here today
  is that first jvc camera.
- oh, my god. i'm really excited to see what it looks like
next to this thing. who's gonna carry
the lighter camera?
that's the question. - i got this one.
- thanks. ( muttering ) the only bummer
was not having a screen - to see anything.
- yeah. now that we've shot with this,
we should switch over - and see what
  the panasonic system's like.
- yeah. yeah. - how was that?
- pretty good. it was framed pretty well,
and i could see it. when you have the viewfinder, you feel more confident
in your shots. marques: yeah. all right, well, let's look
at them side by side. all right,
so let's check out the jvc. - ( whirring )
- i love that motorized
  sound that it makes. - that's a long sound.
- it is. - i'm not even gonna lie.
- you ever see-- - you ever see "robocop"?
- no. cordero:
 they recorded the sounds of,  like, vcrs and vhs camcorders as the sounds
of when robocop walked. ( whirring ) thank you for your cooperation.
good night. ( whirring ) that actually makes
a lot of sense. - almost everything that's
  in highlight is blown out.
- yeah. - uh, not as wide as i thought.
- there you go. there you go. we're seeing the disadvantage
of not having a viewfinder. - yeah. it looks like
  found footage.
- yeah. we were going for that look. so, this is really
taking me back.  i was filming vhs movies
 when i was 13 years old. nothing was perfect, and that's
what made it feel real. you can add
all the after effects,
plug-ins you want,  and you're not gonna achieve
 what's happening here.  marques: not something that
 could easily be replicated. - rik: no. 
- next step is to check out what the panasonic system
kicked up. pause this. rik: so we'll play
the first clip. all right. the framing's
instantly way better, much more dynamic range, and, yeah,
colors look way better. the thing i like is
that you still have this
filmic look to it. it's a look
that i think really advanced
the look of vhs. if i were to pick
between these two rigs,
i would still pick this one, even though it's
a little more taxing
to set up and carry. but at the end of the day,
this is the grandaddy
of it all. rik: yeah, that's the one
 that kicked off everything.