- this is the playstation 5 and we are going to break it. (scream) so now that we're going to
see what's inside the box, but we're also going to
tear this thing apart. look at the size of this box. okay wow what a nice unboxing experience. so if you've actually seen, we've done an entire video
on the dualsense already. and we may or may not have
broken that one as well. oh is that a bad luck that all the playstation videos we do it just ends in destroying things? - [ken] it works though! (box rattling) - this makes the fat ps3 look reasonable, are you kidding me? i hope you got room, 'cause it's big. i almost called it a big chungus but i didn't 'cause i've used
my chungus quite enough today. so for the obligatory size comparison, we have the xbox series s. (austin laughs) which is funny. and then we also have the series x. so the playstation 5 is big. but why is it so big? well there's only one way to find out, watching the official
playstation tear down video. the second best way to find out is to continue watching
this video as i wreck a ps5. (ding) oh yeah that's why you need the stand huh? woo look at that! look, i'm not gonna be
the guy who tells you that size doesn't matter
'cause it definitely matters if you're a playstation 5. one of the things that's
interesting about the ps5 is that it's supposed to be
easy to open up the side panel. (machine clinks) (austin laughing) okay so the playstation 5 is very easy to remove the side panel. i definitely just scratched it. oh my god, do you see the size of
that scratch i just put on? look at that. well this is going well isn't it? as you can see, the side panel of the ps5 is
very easily user removable. so easy. tool-less. brainless as well, obviously. oh look at that. that is how to do it gently. grasping. so immediately it's clear that they're going for a
different cooling approach compared to the series x. so you can see that we have
what i believe is a 120 mil fan but you actually have
clearance on both sides. so you can see it's open on this side, as well as this side. so if you compare this to
something like the xbox series x which uses honestly just a much more complicated
way of cooling off the console. so you have dual motherboards, you have a mid plate,
you have vapor chambers. it's very complicated. whereas with the ps5 it
seems like sony's opted to go for a cheaper and simpler approach. and the downside there is just
simply the console is bigger. now you might wonder why
has sony made it so easy to remove the side panels of the ps5? well the big reason for that is that not only can you clear out dust from these little traps, but importantly you can
also upgrade the ssd. so behind this little panel we should see that there is an m2 slot. so right here we have a slot
for a pci 4 point o ssd. now as of recordings this video you can't do anything here yet. so the idea will be a long-term once it gets a firmer
update at some point, that you will be able to easily upgrade the storage of your ps5
without needing to buy some kind of proprietary memory card like you do on the xbox. the main downside to upgrading your ps5 as i accidentally screw my hand, is that you need a very fast ssd. so you need to be not only pci 4 point o, but in theory at least you
need it to by sony compatible. so we actually can't test it since it doesn't work right now. but stayed tuned to make sure
to subscribe to the channel because we will be taking a closer look at what kind of ssd options and how you can upgrade
the storage on your ps5. all right let's plug it in and see, can you actually run it
without the sides on? (machine beeping) oh i see. oh yeah that fan's spinning. you can absolutely do this. should you? probably not. but as far as the playstation's concerned, it doesn't care or
doesn't even know i guess if you have the sides on. what's interesting is,
so i can definitely feel, it is definitely pushes all that air which it sucks in through
this way through the fan and out the back. there's like a good
little breeze back here. so what it seems like
for the cooling solution is that all of the cooling is happening on the top
half of the console. which kinda makes sense
because on the bottom half you mostly have the disc drive and i assume the power supply? oh yeah. that works. okay. so if your ps5 is overheating you can take the side panels off. you might get dust in there and it's probably not recommended, but technically that works. you know kids are gonna do that. - [matt] how much are you
actually gonna tear this apart? - yes is the answer matt. there's probably a very
elaborate way to do this. i'm just gonna start unscrewing things. all right, there we go. one t is void. there we go. so a little note, if you decide
to tear your own psi apart, they have a lot of screws
and they're all different. like, all of 'em. i'm 12 screws in, now
let's remove the fan. (tool whirring) riveting content, watching austin evans label each individual
screw so he's not an idiot, and knows how to put it back together. so i think those are all the screws. so. well that comes out easily. now the fan, oh wow that just comes--
- whoa that's cool. - out. wow i can just feel the breeze. i mean i feel like this fan weighs like half an xbox series s. so the fan basically is pushing that air right through those heat pipes. so far so good. let me pull this little cable loose. the shroud has given up
and we have, more shroud. (austin laughs) here we go. okay. so the optical drive
should just come loose now. that. that's actually a very oddly large drive. so of course this is what you use to watch blu-ray's 4k blu-ray's as well as their proprietary
hundred gig format or whatever they use for ps5 discs. do you see this? look how tiny this little
bit of the heat sync is. look it just pops out on this side. so next i'm going to remove these what i assume are antennae for wifi, probably like bluetooth. i guess we can start undoing the, oh my god.
- that's a lot of screws. - all right, if these
are all different sizes i'm gonna be labeling
screws all night long. let's. get started shall we?
(upbeat music) these are famous last words. i will say so far, this has
been fairly easy to get into. at no point have i felt like i
was about to break something. okay well i'm just gonna take it apart.
- that's literally dangling. - so you mean i'm almost done? i hear nothing but positive
things right now matt. this is what a ps5's supposed
to look like i think. so after removing a
couple of dozen screws, we finally have the heat
shield off or the shield. shield off. wait. that's not part of the heat sync at all. they have a separate
heat pipe on the back. so this also serves as a heat
sync for the back of the ps5. so taking a look around here, this looks to be the ssd or at least that's what
i assume is the ssd. it's fairly close to the m2 slot. and then if we slide
things over a little bit you can get a little bit of a better look at the gdr6 memory, specifically
16 gigs of it on the ps5. now something else interesting. i believe if you can see
this little guy right here, i believe that is the wifi chip. and something unique about the ps5 is that this actually has wifi
6 unlike the playstation 4. and of course the xbox
series x and series s, all of which have the older wifi 5. just a nice little feature. now i think the board
should just come out. oh! i've got a lot more
screws to undo don't i? - yeah you do.
- yes you do. - that is a bizarre looking heat sync. so you actually have these
like cross heat pipes. do you even playstation bro? so what's left inside the chassis is almost entirely the power supply. which is. 370 watts, so that's actually
a pretty beefy power supply. i can't imagine the ps5
actually needs that. but you can see the
overall volume of the ps5. the power supply takes up a
pretty huge chunk of that. it's fine, it's fine,
it's not going anywhere. fine. we can pretty quickly undo
the last couple of screws. the only problem is, it likely
is going to be terminal. so on the underside of this heat sync there is thermal compounds specifically known as liquid metal. liquid metal is something which has never really been used before in certainly a game console,
and really in most electronics. and basically we can't
really put it back on. so if i take this off right now, we're probably never
going to have this ps5 up to the same cooling. i might try some normal
thermal compound to see, but this is the point of no return. (tool whirring) as soon as i flip this over liquid metal might go everywhere. that is still firmly attached. so the back half of the board is free. whatever they're doing to keep
that liquid metal attached is absolutely what's holding
the board in right now. (mumbling in distance) okay, got it. yep. okay. that my friends, oh no
don't leak, don't leak. there we go, all right. so that is the inside of ps5. so the main star of the show here is absolutely that liquid metal. so if you see if i lean it in, it actually runs, do you see that? look at that, that is liquid metal. so essentially that is what is interfacing between the soc of the
ps5 and this heat sync which is of course on the other side. i'm not gonna flip this over 'cause it will absolutely go everywhere. so interestingly what they're doing, so one of the main disadvantages
of using liquid metal, and one of the main reasons
why it's not typically used, is because it is literally liquid metal. so if it goes everywhere
it would short things out, cause tons of problems. so you can see when i opened it up the liquid metal actually
went all off to one side. that foam barrier kept it from
actually reaching the board. because if this liquid
metal touches any of this you are in major trouble. i just so happen to have an
xbox series x soc, don't ask. and if i put that side-by-side you can see the difference in the ps5 soc versus the xbox series x. this just simply is
bigger, which makes sense because essentially how
they're getting the performance out of the ps5 is they are
throwing liquid metal at it, they're throwing this
huge heat sync at it, just to try to keep it cool because they're running
at such high clock speeds. that my friends is what
is inside a playstation 5. make sure to subscribe to the channel for more playstation content. where probably fewer
playstation's will be harmed. and if you'll excuse me, i am now going to go spend all night putting this back together. i labeled these right?