- i spent over $3,000 buying the entire playstation experience, to determine is this worth it? should anyone buy the entire setup? well, there's only one way to find out. now, it's easy to forget that 2023 was a massive year for playstation. pretty much every ps5
related item got an update. we got a new console,
we got a new controller, ps vr, all kinds of stuff. first of all, we have
ourselves the ps5 slim. so this, is specifically
the digital edition. now, if you wanna know
more about the ps5 slim, i actually did an entire video on it. we tore it apart, we x-rayed it. there's a lot of interesting
stuff about the slim, but this is specifically
the digital version. in that video, i took a
look at the disc model. now you might ask, for my
ultimate playstation setup, why did i buy the digital? well, because i wanted
the full sony experience. so we have, the stupid $30 vertical stand. on top of that, i
purchased the disc drive. so every ps5 slim, is the same
hardware this time around. the only difference between the digital and the disc version is whether or not this disc attachment is included. most people, i'll admit, shouldn't buy the digital and
the disc at the same time, because this is more expensive than just buying the disc
ps5 right outta the box. but i'm just curious about how this works, so this is part of our setup. now this is something i
completely forgot about. this is the hd camera for ps5. it is meant for you to
stream from your ps5 with. so it's got background removal, 1080p. i don't know why this exists, if i'm being completely honest with you. we're also gonna stream games
using the playstation portal. now, i have already taken a
look at a playstation portal. i did a short on it a little while ago. i have some concerns. but this is a streaming handheld that'll allow you to do remote
play for your ps5 anywhere, you have, an excellent
connection to your ps5 with. and last but not least, in this box, we've got ourselves, ps vr 2. i have not tried ps vr 2 yet at all, partially because, it's really expensive and i was waiting for a price cut and i have not seen a price cut. so i paid, $600 for this. in addition to the ps5 slim, and all the other things, i also purchased a four
terabyte wd black ssd. if you purchase the wd
black directly from sony, it is $350 for the four terabyte. and it does come with
the actual heat sink. i instead went on amazon and spent $220 on what is physically
essentially the same ssd. and then i spent $10
buying a heat sink for it. so i'm gonna put a heat sink on this, and save like a hundred bucks. inside we have power cable, hdmi. oh my god, and the dumbest
stand in the world. so instead of the nice stand
that used to come with, it comes with two little
rejects from ikea, that allow you to set the ps5 up in a horizontal orientation. we do have a dualsense,
which we don't need this. - [alex] ew. - huh, who would wanna use the
regular dualsense, gross? - [alex] ew. all right, geez. - instead we're gonna be
using the dualsense edge. i didn't buy a new one
'cause we already have one, but this is 200 bucks. so we'll, we'll be using
this in a little bit. so this is our ps5 slim. aw dude, you know what? that looks so much better
without the disc drive on it. like it's like, it looks
like they designed this and then they bolt the
damn disc drive on the side. yikes, that just doesn't feel good. so, we actually are no longer
going to be using this shell, because you can see here, that we have to attach
the disc drive here. and then this has a replacement shell that goes over the top. so this is the digital
stand that comes with it, so it will sit flush. so here is our disc drive. now i will give them huge props, the disc drive is
absurdly easy to install. so if you look at it
here, there are two little like sort of clips which
you can put these two into. so you kinda line it up. and then this is a single
connector which goes in here. if you wanna install a disc drive, is as simple as taking it,
line it up with these two and then done that is
an installed disc drive. (pop) - these are the worst noises. this sounds like matt, when he wakes up on a thursday morning. - [announcer] bruhh. - next let's stand it up in
style, with our vertical stand. oh my god, why do i
have such a huge manual? what the hell are. y'all, y'all, this is
too much for a stand. this is like, the back is
like almost entirely empty. it's 'cause they forgot spanish. oh, you know what though? that is a pretty nice stand. so it actually is metal. oh look, and it's done. that was so seamless and simple. it took me six to seven seconds total. - [alex] yeah. didn't
need the manual at all, nothing ooh, didn't need that at all. - nope, it was so simple. look at my ps5. the style has indeed been elevated and it is not any more stable because it bounces around on the stand. uh huh. cool. well there you go. next up, let's install the ssd. to install an ssd on a ps5. it is incredibly simple. so there's a single screw, and behind here you'll see an m.2 slot. so lemme show you the
difference between ps5 ssds. so this, is the first party-ish playstation branded wd black 850p. not to be confused with the 850x, which is the exact same
thing in every possible way, except it doesn't have the playstation logo and the heat sink. now the reason why, i
talk about the heat sink is purely because these
ssds tend to run warm. and one of the things we learned
in the tear down is that, there's actually a lot of the cooling done for the ps5 done right
behind this ssd slot. so, you always should
use a heat sink for ps5. but especially with the slims, i think that they're probably gonna be a little bit more prone to overheating, just because you've got all
the exhaust of the ps5 like, that far behind where your ssd is. but the good thing is,
heatsink is like 10 bucks. it's not that expensive. so with that, we have our
ssd installed in the ps5. i swear every time i put
these side panels on, i'm afraid, i'm gonna
like break this thing. oh god, did i already break it? i felt one of the clips like. i pushed down and i felt
it in my hand like bend. oh yeah, i bent it. oh my god, look at that,
i bent the little hook. i felt it bend in my hand. dbrand, can you please make dark plates? i don't want to deal with these. there we go. alright, let us begin, the ps5 testing. so, since i've already
given sony all of my money, instead i'm gonna be using the inzone m9, which we already have here in the office. now as you can see, this is a
playstation inspired monitor. and it actually has some features, where when you plug it
into the playstation, it automatically sets
like the hdr and whatnot. this is not a cheap monitor,
at normally 900 bucks. and i believe it's on sale
right now for like $800. but it is 4k, it'll go a
full 144 hertz or 120 hertz, so it's plugged into a ps5, and it makes quite a nice pc monitor. okay so, once we have
gotten everything set up, it has recognized our m.2 ssd. so you always have to format it, which we'll let that run through. and then once it's done with the format, it should run a quick speed test. so right now, oh yeah, perfect. 6,528 megabytes per second. now keep in mind, that
what i've got in right now, is the authentic playstation
approved wd black. so, with our four terabyte ssd installed, let's take a look shall we. do, do, do, do. and the number is. oh, it's faster. see, we're almost at
7,000 megabytes a second. so, we now have, four terabytes
of even faster ssd storage than that sony approved one, that was more money, ew. you know, i do wanna try one thing. let me actually try to
put a different disc drive on this ps5, to make
sure it works correctly. just so, you in the future, if you say want to add a disk drive to your existing ps5, can maybe buy a used one and
know that it actually works. so now i'm gonna swap over, to the disc drive from
our ps5 disc edition. oh, updating my disc drive. it's updating the firmware
on the disc drive. what? okay, cool. yes so, i can confirm that
if you buy a used disk drive, or swap it from someone else's ps5, as long as you can put it online to do that initial sort of setup and i guess firmware updates
sometimes, you can swap that. a lot of people ask us about that. i assume that that
would be the way it was, 'cause there's no reason
why it wouldn't be, but, so there we go. now we of course, already have our dualsense
edge connected. we got a whole lot more than that. so, on top of our inzone display, let us add, our playstation 3d camera. okay, three pictures of me will be taken. what? oh. what? this is really how i set it up? now, there's a lot to talk about here. one of the things is of
course, the dualsense edge, which i have used in the past. to me, i've never been a huge fan of it. it's quite glossy, so it does feel like it
needs a skin or something. and for $200, the battery
life is not great, but it is a reasonable pro controller. probably the best option
on the playstation side. oh my god, are you trying to tell me that this camera only works when i'm streaming and
i can't record with it? is that really, all that
you could do with this? okay, well don't need that anymore. next up, we have the inzone h9 headset. now, you might be asking austin, the inzone headset is
an interesting choice considering that, there's a series of brand new
playstation branded headsets and audio devices that are
en route at the moment. there are, i couldn't get them. they got sold out, a long time ago, and i couldn't find 'em in stock. now, i briefly used this
one as well in the past. it actually is quite good. it has very strong noise cancellation. much like the monitor, it is designed specifically
to work with ps5. there's a toggle, on the little dongle where you can actually
flip it over to ps5 mode, and it just works. so let's start out by talking
about the inzone display. so this is a 4k, 144 hertz panel, super, super bright. it is a ips display, so it's not oled. but other than that, it looks terrific. for me, i feel like
the standard dualsense is such a solid controller, that i don't really get
anything else out of this. i mean, really what you have is the ability to swap out the sticks, you have the paddles and
some software customization. that's largely it. problem with all this stuff,
is that, it's 2d. it's flat. i'm not in the game,
i'm staring at the game. i know, i'm ready to be in the game. i'm ready to be in the ps vr game. we have headphones. it comes with headphones? oh, interesting. oh, i guess the headphones
kind of just clip on. all right, that's cool. we have a copy of horizon
vr call of the mountain. i'll, you know what, i'm
gonna just give you the code 'cause i'm not gonna play this game. do not redeem this code, thanks. so we have the sense controllers, which are massive, what the. all righty, so i'm gonna plug this in. it does come with a very long usb-c cable. so, unlike something like a quest, which is a fully wireless headset, this is a decidedly very, wired headset. - whoa,
- [alex] whoa. (austin laughing) what kind of dome you
rocking boy? jesus christ. so i'm gonna put this on. i'm going to tighten it down. you can't continue a setup now because your ps vr2
sense battery is too low. your controller will turn off. fine, you know what? fine, fine, fine, fine, fine. while my controller's charge, why don't we move on to arguably the greatest playstation branded accessory of the year, playstation portal. (austin chuckles) - [alex] are you being sarcastic? - yeah, i'm being sarcastic. this things, okay. so, if you're not familiar,
(alex laughing) playstation portal at first glance, looks like a straight up ps vita 2, until you realize that
the playstation portal is a glorified remote play machine. you know, the app that you
can download on your phone and play playstation games on your local wifi or when you're remote. although, really the local wifi is the only thing that's
remotely sort of usable. that's what this does. it feels terrific in the hand. it has the full capability
of a dualsense. there's nothing that makes
this appreciably better other than the controller,
which if you own a ps5, you could just pair your
dualsense to your phone. or the larger display. but it's important to keep in mind, that this doesn't do anything on its own. it always relies on a
connection to your ps5. and that's an important distinction. there's some good stuff about it. boy, there's a lot of stuff i don't like. okay, lemme just start
out right here. okay. so you can see, that i
am in the system menu. if you look, this might be a
little hard to see on youtube. if you're watching on your phone, you'll need to put it on full screen. on this display right now, i've got a beautiful
interface, crystal clear, 4k. now this is a 1080p feed,
but it is heavily banding, so you'll have to get quite a close shot. you can see that, all the
individual lines kind of break up. that's actually really indicative
of the overall quality. because what you're getting
here with remote play, is essentially no different than the remote play that has existed for years, that you could connect your
phone with or whatever. so, i'm just gonna jump in and we're gonna play a little bit, okay. okay so, at first
glance, it's fine, right? the latency is there, but the stuttering never
goes away, in my opinion. like, it will be okay-ish for a while. technically it's supposed to be 1080p 60. but the problem is that,
it's not a consistent 60. again there's a stutter there. like i can kind. oh there
see, stuttering there. like, it drops so many frames. dude, the stuttering is. i'm trying to be nice here,
i'm trying to be nice. you are not gonna be able
to see it too much on a youtube video. i'll just tell you like
at 60p, it drops frames. the problem i have is
that while ergonomically, it's really nice, it feels great, it feels way better than something like a steam deck or whatever. like it's really, really nice. i like the concept of it. the problem is that, the
execution is not there. there's so many things. first of all, this doesn't do, it doesn't have inexplicably bluetooth. so you either plug in via aux, or you buy one of these
sony, like pulse headsets that have their new, you know, proprietary
connection algorithm, which is okay, sure, whatever. you can't connect this to your ps5 and use it like a controller. i don't know why? oh wait, i do know? 'cause they didn't put bluetooth in it. you also can't use this to
stream games from the cloud. so, if you have playstation
plus, the higher tiers, the specifically the
highest tier i believe, you get access to some streaming games. you could play them on this via your ps5, which would mean that you're, streaming the game from
the cloud to your ps5. from your ps5 to here. not a good experience. this should be able to
connect directly to the cloud and play those games at the very least. if you're interested in
a playstation portal, may i highly suggest don't buy that thing. okay, now i've got that out of my system, let's see if our controllers
from ps vr2 already, shall we? okay, now it is time to
go into our vr world. okay, i've got pass through. so you see what i see right now, right? - [alex] yes. - [austin] okay, wonderful. all right. - [alex] it's dark and trippy. - i will say this pass
through is pretty decent. it's a little jittery, so it feels like it's like,
maybe 30 fps or something. but this, what you're seeing
on the tv actually looks like a pretty good analogy for what i'm seeing. adjust eye tracking. okay. follow the red dot just with your eyes without moving your head. okay, staring at the red dot. this calibration is actually quite cool. the fact this has eye
tracking is very, very good. set my play area. okay so, don't walk into the walls. got it, got it, got it. so, i do have a long cable, so i actually can walk
around pretty easily. sees the couch. i'm all set. alright. oh, holy.
- hugs. - i'm in the car. holy.
- hugs. - [austin] what?
- [alex] yeah, we see it. we see it. - yeah, i'm like in
the damn car right now. wah! ah! no! stop! so, i am in a car right now, and this is trippy as hell. i have no idea what gear i'm in. oh, i dude i can see what gear i'm in. (austin laughing) holy, it's cool. i've got full volume. i feel like i'm actually
in the car right now. i am actually kind of
speechless right now. and this is actually where the vibration of the controller really helps. 'cause my body feels like i
should be feeling the g-forces. woo. the frame rate is great. the presence is just real. like, i am in this damn car right now. get down, get down, get down. yeah! unreal. i just had like a god damn experience. that, is the best vr experience
i've ever had in my life. like the presence in the car, the 10,000 rpms screaming in my ears. the fact that like, the realism is so down
to the point where like, i was wondering what gear i was in. i looked down at my shifter
to see what gear i was in. like, it's wild. so, is it worth spending $3,000 on everything that playstation sells? no, of course not. i mean, look, if i'm gonna
rank my favorite items, it's ps vr 2, ps vr 2, ps vr 2, ps vr 2. thank you very much for watching. subscribe to the channel. i'm gonna go back to
driving 'cause that was, i'm not, i'm not done
with this by a long shot.