- [mrbeast] in this video
we are going to be eating $100,000 golden ice cream. - i'm blown away. this is so good. - $5,000 mac and cheese. - this mac and cheese is magnificent. - $30,000 banana foster. - ooh, that's incredible. - and so much more, starting off with $100 ice
cream and working our way up. this is $100 ice cream. it's really good. this cheese is $500. - that's pretty good. - oh gosh. i'm excited. oh my god. this is really good. all right, we're going to the next course. this is $1,000 chocolate. as you can see they're
golden flakes on it. oh my god. - oh, wow.
- oh. - this is amazing.
- oh. - when you eat stuff
like this with gold on it your body doesn't digest it. you just poop out gold. and with that knowledge, let's
go to the next restaurant. we're about to eat $2,000 cake. - each plate is worth $2,000. - each plate? - it's a white chocolate, grape juice petit gateau, raspberry coulis, and vanilla genoise. in between the moose, raspberry reduction sauce
and grape juice jelly. - you could tell it's good 'cause of how many words
i didn't understand. - i call dibs on firsties. - oh, come on. - oh my gosh. - oh that's so good.
- this is good. (both laughs) - come on, that's just- - that's just disrespectful. - [chris] come on, that's a $2,000- - no, it's so good. easily, the best dish so far. - now this might seem expensive
and it tastes really good. but imagine what the $100,000
ice cream will taste like. - i'm worried i'm not
gonna like food after it. - we are now at the next restaurant. - so it's a black skin chicken, which is a very rare chicken. biscuits with foie gras. white truffle mashed with red-eye gravy made with coffee. - chandler here's some
$3,000 fried chicken. if you're wondering who
this is, it's michelle. she's a random subscriber. now that we're starting to get into the really expensive food, we're gonna bring in random subscribers and let you guys experience it with us. and don't worry, they're all
quarantined and got tested. we're safe. - that is good. - that is really good. it tastes amazing, but that
color is really throwing me off. - smell the mashed potatoes. - oh my gosh.
- yeah. - no, i'm not eating that. - i'm gonna take one for the team. (playful music) it's good. - oh, is it jelly and liver. - it's so powerful. it just lets you know it's
in your mouth instantly. - would you say it was worth it? - i would say so, yeah. - perfect. next restaurant. we are now at the next restaurant. this is a random subscriber, daryl. at this restaurant we're gonna be eating. - guayasamin ecuadorian chocolate tart. (trumpets playing) - it's an ecuadorian chocolate
that comes from ancient tree. each bar that's 50 grams
cost about 500 bucks. - how scary is it to put
a dish together like that? - don't mess up the recipe. (all laughs) - wait, what is that? - my man just pulled up
an entire rainforest cafe. - [daryl] what the heck? nothing's gonna jump outta my meal, right? - that is crazy. - hmm. oh my god. - that is really good. - i love this. - the caramel sauce. mm. - genuinely, this is
one of the best desserts i've ever tasted in my life. aren't you glad you subscribed. - yeah, i'm so glad i subscribe. - daryl, you have five seconds to say whatever you want. go! - like can subscribe. and it's great to eat a $4,000- - all right next restaurant. (all laughs) all right. we rented this entire restaurant. we're being safe. if anyone tries to come and eat here, we have someone waiting at the door giving them $1,000. play the clip of them getting money. this next dish is $5,000 mac and cheese. (all gasping) - ooh. - oh my gosh. i know later in the video we're
eating $100,000 ice cream, but this is probably gonna taste better. - i'm excited. - can you tell us about
this mac and cheese? - [chef] i sent someone to norway to get a live norwegian red king crab. we sent someone all the way to italy to get $4,000 worth of
fancy mushroom mushrooms. - mushrooms? - and i've got a little something
for chandler in the back. - oh really?
- yes. it's an extra plain macaroni and cheese. - [all] ooh. - okay. - oh, and it's in a pubg toy. - tareq, get close up of that. look at it drippin'. - oh, tareq. - it's drippin'. i say we all wait and take a
bite at the exact same time. - hold on, let me get a scoop. (pan sizzling) ah. - karl, we're trying to taste test. - no, this mac and cheese is magnificent. - oh my gosh. this is amazing. - yeah. this compared to
the like all black chicken. - oh my god. - this is good. - i'm having an intimate moment. - oh, this is a crab. i forgot there is crab in there. - dude, no way. - tareq, can you film me? and by film me, i mean
switch seats with me. tareq, you get experience
the $5,000 mac and cheese. - okay - dude, do you need a hug? i'm pissed at how good it is. - i'm mad. - well guys, how was it? - this was amazing. good job. - [chef] thank you so much guys. - applauding you because you
made something expensive, that still tasted good. - yes! - which surprisingly is very hard. pinky touch. - nyeow. teleport. for this next dish. we have another subscriber, monica. - hi. - chris is wearing the
sexy shop mrbeast merch. and karl is just wearing a dream merch. just blur it. (monica laughs) blur it and put shop mrbeast text over it. (karl laughs) - oh, its not blurred. its not blurred. oh, now it's blurred again. we are about to eat $7,000 puff pastry. basically. it's a wheel of cheese with 40 year old sauce on it. - brie is like one of my
favorite all time cheeses ever. - you have favorite cheeses? - yeah. - my favorite cheese is mac n'. - so that's cheese? - [chef] baked in puff pastry, yeah. - [mrbeast] oh, it's triple c thick. - it's like stuck together. it's so thick. - [chris] the sauce smells really good. you should try it just
for the sauce alone. - this doesn't look like poor
people brie that i'm used to. - i don't like the smell of it. - you can tell you're
regretting your decisions. - i don't like cheese. all right. we dig it in? - if i have to. (monica chuckles) - i'm scared of cheese.
i'm scared of cheese. (monica laughs) - it really tastes. - it tastes like cheese. it just tastes like a block of cheese. - very cheesy. it's an acquired taste. - acquired taste is a
way of saying it sucks. i'm not eating it. - nothing could have prepared me for the explosion of old cheese taste. - i know. just gotta go through a little
bit of pain on our way up. - [chris] we gotta get through the cheese to get to the ice cream. - this next meal is gonna cost $9,000 but not because of the food. in this video where we gave people who lost their job through the coronavirus a bunch of money, we donated it to a chef. and now we're currently at his restaurant, and we're gonna order
the most expensive thing on the menu and tip him $8,000. it's been a while. - it's been a while. how are you? because of you, i was
able to like take care of my hospital bills,
like continue cooking. that really means a lot to me. so thank you very much. - that so heartwarming. oh my goodness. so this right here is $1,000. - we have a hamon-stuffed cornish hen. it is a dutch chocolate. - this stuff on top? - absolutely. the mashed potatoes is where you'll find a little bit of truffle but like a lot of garlic
and seasoning and whatnot. - say no more. - garlic?
- [chef] yeah. - mashed potatoes. - those are good. - those are very good. it doesn't overpower it. - yeah. a lot of this expensive stuff they just kinda like smear truffles on it. this is how you're
supposed to use truffles. i really wanna try this chocolate chicken. - chocolate chicken. - that's a weird sentence. - i got a big glob of
that sauce in my mouth and it's good, but it's strong. (mrbeast grunts) - what are you doing? - that is so weird. - there's a lot going on in your mouth. - it shouldn't work. why does it work? - since you're generous
enough to make us this meal, we brought you a $10,000 tip. - so you like the chicken? - i did. (both laughs) we're gonna finish eating here. and starting now, things get serious. no more games. - only food. - it is now time for the $30,000 meal. me and the boys had to get all dressed up. if the suits weren't enough,
we brought another subscriber. and we forgot to tell them to wear a suit. tell us about the banana foster - it's made with a special apple sauce. we have some crystallized honeycomb. we have honey meringue infused
in a oolong tea from 1996. - that's that's when i was born. - we're obviously gonna flambe it for you right here on the table. so we're gonna have a nice fireworks. - oh really? - ooh.
- [chef] of course. - aren't you glad you subscribed? - oh, i am stoked that i subscribed. i'm excited. - so right here we have a- - hot pocket. - a vanilla panna cotta. - [chris] wiggle, wiggle, wiggle, wiggle. yo, he brought fire. - oh my goodness. that's probably the coolest
thing we've seen so far today. - yum, yum, yum, yum, yum. oh, that's good. - wow. ooh that's incredible. - that's fantastic. i'm in love. - the middle jiggly thing
carries the whole thing. - i will trade anything
in this banana foster for these brownies, these are insane. - what are these little balls? - those are hazel nuts. - oh, i thought they were meringues. after this, we are eating a $50,000 steak and then $100,000 golden ice cream. the receipt is in a box.
- ooh. - and just so you have
proof that says $30,000 and then we left a $5,000 tip. i'm gonna go pay the $36,000 bill. i'll see at the next restaurant. this is our final restaurant. we are about to eat $50,000 steaks and the $100,000 ice cream. and you know the deal, we
brought a random subscriber in. what's up, william. - hello, jimmy. - before we eat the $100,000 ice cream, we want your $50,000 golden steak. so can you just tell us about that? - absolutely. so our steak
has been aged for four months. we smoked it for about 15 hours. we put it in a blanket of gold, just to keep it warm and amazing. we think it might be the most
expensive beef in the world. - it's like gold tin foil wrapped on it. (menacing music) - it's menacing. - oh my god.
- oh my god. - [chris] that is beautiful. - [karl] it's like the geographic channel. - all right. - [william] what is a truffle? what is a truffle? - ill skip with the truffle. - i'll have a little bit, a ton of white truffles so far. - i could imagine. - just like, yeah, like two grazes, there we go, okay. - the most expensive salt in the world. - oh my god. you did it like that guy. - on the count of five take a bite. one, two, five. - oh. (steak thuds) - oh my god. - oh my goodness. what? this is so rich tasting,
if that's a way to say it. - i mean, yeah. - truffles not bad on it. this is good truffle. - we have a sauce that costs $19,000. did you like it with- - oh my god, really? - yeah. you sauce me up baby. - matsutake mushrooms
with black truffle juice. - oh my gosh. it's like steak sauce,
but 500,000 times better. more please. - wow. - i am so glad i subscribe to mrbeast. best steak of my life. - we also have some
caviar with potato cake. - oh. so it's like a baked
potato, but rich people. it's a loaded baked potato. they were right. it's so good. - oh wow. - oh my gosh. i do like it. - in this video, we brought
tons of subscribers in to eat lots of expensive food. and in the past we've
had subscribers compete for cars, houses, even a million dollars. if you're not already,
hit that subscribe button there's no reason not to. and guys, up next is what
i've been talking about the entire video, $100,000 ice cream. - yes.
- oh my god. - yes. - as scary as this sounds, we would like to try your
most expensive ice cream, the $100,000 ice cream with
all the different sauces, which i know get really expensive here. (heavy metal music) for the love of god. what am i looking at? - [chef] each one of those
ice cream balls that you see, cost over $100 to make. we've got chocolate from south america made from chocolate bars
that cost $500 each. strawberries that are picked from japan, flown over last night,
first class, just for you. - wait from japan? - from japan. - [chef] we topped those strawberries in a bottle of 99 year old grape juice that cost over $20,000. - oh my god. every time you put one of those
strawberries in your mouth it's $75. we have miniature candied peaches, those are the little green parts. each one of those peaches cost $500. - geez.
- for a peach? - here, we have a wild huckleberry sauce. each one of these spoons is gonna set you back about 50 bucks. and with any sundae, you're
gonna need caramel sauce. this one's gonna set
you back about $3,000. - that look so good. - butterscotch made with some really, really, really fancy 50
year old apple juice. this my friends is $45,000. - oh my god.
- what? - no way. - you're dumping $45,000
on top of the ice cream. - and there you have it guys,
a $100,000 ice cream sundae. - okay. - i never thought i'd see it in person. - i personally don't even
feel comfortable eating it. so i brought in even more subscribers. we have three random subscribers here, two of my best friends. guys, enjoy the $100,000 ice cream. (group chattering) - i need one of these strawberries. (group chattering) - wow. (all screaming) - oh no!
- what are you doing? - that's not me. (screams) - he said each one of
those ice cream balls were made with $500 chocolate bars. - and i just dropped it on the table. oops. - oh my god.
- oh my god. - wow. - that's so. - oh my god. that is a delectable. - that's amazing. i can see a hundred thousand
dollars right there. - let's try the baby
peaches, they're so good. (group chattering) (all screaming) - i'm blown away, this is so good. - it's like the king of desserts. - honestly, i can't even
compare it to anything. it's so crazy. - they do look really good. - jimmy, nobody's gonna get mad at you. - nope. i don't want it. - he's a man on his word. - all the boys over there seem to really be enjoying the ice cream and having a good time. my personal favorite videos to film are the ones where we help other people. but, sometimes we gotta
splice stuff like this in. videos like this, do
help grow my audience, so when i do give away more money, i have more money to give away. if that makes sense. just wanted to give a little context, i swear i'm not a snob. - jimmy, how is this my life? thank you. - are you happy you
ruined ice cream for me? - 50,000 for the steak in its sauce, and then 100,000 for that sundae. so, $170,878. thank you for watching. hit the subscribe button. - you have to now.
- this could be you. [music] mrbeast6000, oh [music] [music] mrbeast6000, yeah, you know his name [music] [music] he changed it once or twice [music] [music] but i think it's here to stay [music]