i'm going to answer the question that has plagued humankind for millennia. if you're making a cup of tea should you put the milk in straightaway? or should you wait and add the milk at the absolute very last second? now some people will try and convince you that of course you have to put the milk in
first because the tea tastes better that way. well actually when people drink tea
in a blind taste test the best way to enjoy tea, they can't tell the difference
and so actually putting the milk in first was just a way to protect
delicate cups. whereas now in our modern age of sturdy cup-wear you can go as
hot as you want as fast as you fancy. rock the casbah. so putting in the
milk isn't a matter of taste or safety, it's merely a matter of which will keep
your beverage the hottest the longest. now some people will wait, they will put
the milk in at the absolute last second because they think that's going to keep
it hotter. but that's not the case. if you look at the stefan boltzmann
equation for the rate at which a hot body radiates heat, it's based on the
fourth power of its absolute temperature. so the temperature in kelvin minus the
fourth power of the ambient temperature, again in kelvin. what that means is hotter objects radiate more heat. hot objects cool down faster, and because it's a fourth power it makes a substantial difference. something at 80 degrees celsius compared to something at 100 degrees celsius the hotter 100-degree beverage will lose heat 1.5 times as fast. to put all of that into a plot obviously when you add the milk early on it does lower the
temperature of your beverage, but then if you compare it to a beverage without
milk it will lose heat at a slightly slower rate. i mean it's a bit difficult to tell but there is a difference. what that means is later on when you do add the milk to the other beverage it
drops below the original one. so it's definitely worth putting the milk in
first and stemming the flow of that heat. that's the idea in theory at least. now i do
get very excited because it's a fourth power. i love spotting fourth powers in
the real world. if you have anymore examples please do let me know. but i wonder does it actually work, and i even mentioned this in a recent bbc radio 4
series. at festival of the spoken nerd we did a show for radio for called domestic
science and i go on about fourth powers, cups of tea, and all this. but i always
thought you know what? i have never actually checked. and so i have gone and bought a digital thermometer which i can power up ... there. and it's got two different probes. let me get the right one. this one here is t1, it's actually labeled
as t, so i'm gonna call this one here t1. i can put that probe in there. and this one here is t2, so i can put t2 in the oops that's not right, i'm going to have to alright so now that is t1 not going
anywhere from that cap, over here we have t2 not going anywhere from that cup.
now the moment they should be registering about the same temperature.
so actually i can put this screen up so you can see it. and if you go through the
different options what we have at the moment is t1 we can switch to t2,
see both the same temperature. t1 t2 pretty much the same. over here we've got t1 minus t2 which is currently 0. so if i actually heat up t1, if i put my finger on it.
it's moving up, you can see the number goes up. now it's much hotter than the other
one, and any second that should cool back down again and we will be good to go. just top that back up so it's definitely boiling. now my theory is if
we add the milk straight away to t1 it will cool down so you'll see the number
go negative, but then later on if we wait five minutes, and i add the milk too t2 it will drop below t1 and so we
should then get a positive value. and that final positive number will be the number
of extra degrees of warmth that we kept in t1 by putting the milk in straightaway.
so i've genuinely never tried this before, it may not work, obviously reality is
much more complicated than theory. we'll give it a go okay so our initial
temperature difference is pretty much 0 i'm going to put the hot water
into both and we'll let the tea brew initially. there we go. cup of tea. cup of tea. now let's just check the temperatures
we've got going on. so if we go over here t1 is 82, 81, it's cooling down a little
bit, i guess the thermometer's in a sense getting used to it. likewise t2 is about the same. so they're both about 81 degrees. wow that is substantially...... is one at the top and one, no they're both at the bottom. 71... 77 76 that's already quite a big difference.
why is there already a difference!? what if i stir them, i'll stir them. give it a stir. take out the teabag. give that a stir. take out the teabag. okay how we doin' now? so... okay they are within a degree of each other. that's better. you had me worried. so 78, and they're both 78. ok so now they're the same temperature
i'm going to add the milk to t1, and then we'll give it five minutes. here we
go and the milk is in! okay, so... we have started the timer. i might actually give that a stir just for completeness. in theory the temperature in t1 that's
10 seconds so far has gone that's -5 degrees. okay so... initially by putting in the milk, 30 milliliters of milk. i've dropped the temperature of this one
by about five degrees, and we'll just give it 5 minutes that's 30 seconds so far and then we'll come back and see how we're
doing. oh, i'm not going to make you sit through
the remaining 4 minutes and 20 seconds of waiting for the tea to adjust
temperatures. i will skip through some of the highlights as such if you want to
watch the entire cooling process, as always i will upload all the footage
unedited on to my second channel there's a link in the description. you can check it out in case you want all of this delicious data. a minute thirty. 2 minutes 2 and a half minutes. 3 minutes. 3 and a half minutes. 4 minutes. 4 and a half minutes. and... 5 minutes! we are done. i'm dumping in the other lot of milk into t2 i'm going to give that a quick stir for completeness. and i'm going to
check out please be a negative number and it is... a... positive number. what is, wha, i,  hang on... no that's right, i want a positive
note i want a positive number because this one's hotter than that one. i forgot
which way around i put it. that's fantastic! 2.2, 2.3 so around 2.25, 2 and a quarter degrees. t1 is 2.25 degrees warmer than
t2, because i put the milk in first. it lost heat slower. it radiated less
heat compared to the other tea and it actually ended up warmer that's so good.
that's actual maths in practice and in reality... oh, that's pretty warm, that's good actually. this one over here. oh that's much colder. oh that's ew
that's tepid i genuinely can't tell the difference, hang on. i've totally convinced myself that this
one is hotter. ok let's check it out in absolute terms. we switch over to t1 is 58 and falling. wow. so that did raise, and the other one
is 61! so there you go, t1 is 61.4, and t2 is 58. look at that! so i mean either i've convinced myself,
i'm very open to suggestions or you genuinely can taste the difference over
just five minutes change. so there you are! i took some maths i took some physics, that i've for ages told people about my theory and finally i've checked and it
does work. believe.. in the fourth power. i should have said may the 4th power be with you. i'm an idiot. one last thing. the only way to be guaranteed scoldingly
hot tea is if you drink it out of a mug like this which i have carefully
altered so that it is powered and it keeps the tea constantly boiling while
you drink it. you might think that sounds unsafe but frankly i'm prepared to put
my body on the line for correct proper british tea. it is sadly mains powered
which can get a little inconvenient i'll i'll just pop this down here. bring that up... and there. see it's... okay that is substantially more on fire than i
expected. how strong must tea be if it burns!?