tsmc is the world's largest 
independent semiconductor foundry.   it has a 50% share in the market. they 
supply fabless chip designers like apple,   nvidia, qualcomm and amd. there has been a lot 
of press and interest recently in its work. but tsmc has its own suppliers too. these are the 
people who make the super cutting-edge machines   that tsmc operates 24/7. dutch multinational 
asml is tsmc's most important supplier   and the maker of the euv equipment 
critical to its n7+ and n5 processes. in this video i am going to profile this rather 
obscure company and examine its relationship with   tsmc. i'll also help answer the question of 
who is "more important" so that the fanboys   can better score points against each other on 
internet boards. face-off! who matters more!? spoiler alert: they both matter 
a whole lot to each other. asml is a leading provider of advanced technology 
systems for the semiconductor industry.   the company was founded in 1984 as a joint venture 
between dutch firms asm international and philips. asml's first machine, the pas 2000 stepper,   was released in 1985. a stepper is a device, kind 
of like a slide projector, that projects a design   onto a silicon wafer. asml would subsequently 
make over 50 versions of this machine. for the first ten years of its existence, 
the company struggled to compete in the   semiconductor lithography space. the semiconductor 
supplier industry faced immense challenges as the   economy went through various boom and busts. asml 
lost money for the first six years of its life   and in 1990 it would be spun 
out as an independent company. two years later in 1991, asml comes out with 
its first hit product - an i-line stepper.   i-line meaning that the stepper 
uses the 365 nm light wavelength.   this lets foundries print smaller designs 
and continue to push moore's law forward. the product's success allowed asml to go ipo 
in 1995, raising money for further product   development. after acquiring a few american 
lithography companies, the company grew   into an oligopoly alongside japanese firms 
nikon and canon. then came the mid-2000s,   where a pair of big product launches 
allowed asml to take the lead. in 2001, asml developed and released its 
twinscan system. this machine offered a process   optimization feature that helped foundry customers 
etch more wafers in the same amount of time.   nikon and canon could not replicate 
this technology and it gave asml   its first market share lead over the japanese. the second big move came with a generational shift 
in photolithography machinery techniques called   "immersion lithography". roughly speaking, it 
uses water as a lens to shrink the wavelength of   the wafer etching laser. yeah it sounds nuts but 
this technique, discovered by taiwanese scientist   burn lin in the 1980s, helped keep moore's law 
alive for a little longer without needing to   further shrink the light wavelength. this 
helped cement asml's 83% market share. but the industry and asml continued 
to think about what could be the next   great revolutionary technology in 
the semiconductor production space.   they started an r&d office and began 
investing millions of euro into r&d. i discussed a bit of asml's work in extreme 
ultraviolet lithography in a previous video   of mine. i am not going to tell the same 
story a second time so you can go watch that   sometime. instead i want to tell the same story 
but from a different perspective. like tenet. in 2003, the industry moved forward with the 
idea of using euv for the next generation   of lithography tools. this decision at the 
time was controversial and heavily debated.   euv at the time did not have 
any theoretical blockers.   it wasn't a time travel delorean or a 
faster-than-light energy drive, after all. but there were significant practical challenges 
of all sorts to getting it up to speed.   for instance, the light source would have to 
be entirely redesigned from the ground up.   end user customers like intel, samsung 
and tsmc would have to retool their fabs. some argued that current techniques like 
immersion lithography and another thing   called multi-patterning could 
carry the industry forward.   so many things are not working out when 
it came to euv. developing it could turn   out to be a money pit. why shoot for a 
unicorn? make what already works, better. asml was fortunate to be 
in a position to try and do   both. they continued development in euv but 
invested to retain a leadership position   in current techniques. from 2008 to 2014, asml as 
a company invested over 4.6 billion euro in r&d. over time by 2010, the industry's big 
players like tsmc, intel and samsung   came to believe that euv could be brought to 
fruition. asml saw an opportunity to steal   intel from its previous main 
supplier nikon. thus in 2012,   asml announced a customer co-investment scheme 
where intel received ownership of 15% of asml   in exchange for $4.1 billion. the money 
would help develop future tools like euv. for some reason, intel did not ask for product 
exclusivity - something that raised a few eyebrows   at the time. it allowed tsmc and samsung to also 
buy in later on. the money and the customer buy-in   gave asml breathing room to work out 
all the kinks. of which there were many. in 2016, the first euv devices were 
shipped out of the netherlands - 30   years after its concepts were first 
explored. the technology had been   delayed for over ten years after its 2007 
prototypes, but it was now ready to go. i think what is interesting is how 
the semiconductor industry's major   players banded together to invest 
and collaborate towards a final,   finished technology that they would all share in. 
these companies, ordinarily fierce competitors,   saw the threat of not having anything ready 
for the future and decided to work together. asml could not have finished euv without 
intimate participation from its customers.   these customers invested billions of euro 
into the product development process,   aware that they would not see the results 
of their investment for many years.   without this buy-in, asml would have 
ended up like canon - unable to sustain   this decades-long odyssey without going 
bankrupt. we should acknowledge that. on a side note. recently, the 
us government has intervened to   prevent the export of asml's euv machines 
to china. i have seen some people asking   on what grounds the united states has in 
restricting the export of euv. after all,   asml is a dutch company and last time i checked, 
the netherlands is not an american state. additionally in 2012, then asml ceo had said: > we welcome intel as the first 
customer to agree to contribute   to these [investments in semiconductor equipment],   the results of which will be available to every 
semiconductor manufacturer with no restrictions read my lips. no restrictions. so what gives? this is because euv is literally an 
american-founded technology. think of   euv as a startup and the us is its controlling 
shareholder - its mark zuckerberg, so to say.   euv llc was founded by american semiconductor 
firms intel and micron in 1997 to partner with   the us department of energy to commercialize 
its euv studies. euv llc invested $250 million   over 3 years at the earliest stages and as a 
result receives royalties on all euv revenues. in february 1999, asml negotiated for and received 
a license from euv llc for its euv technologies.   back in 1999 - long before asml would 
come out with the products that won it   the market - japanese companies 
nikon and canon still had 54%   share of the semiconductor 
lithography market. asml had 34%. there was no american player. had there been, 
i believe they would have received this license   first. the euv llc participation allowed 
asml to leapfrog the japanese's progress   in euv and get that critical first buy-in from 
major customers like intel, tsmc and samsung.   canon and nikon did not receive a license 
and eventually declined to develop   euv to the same degree. canon 
in 2007 due to financial issues.   nikon because they pursued the continued evolution 
of older techniques that ended up petering out. yes, we all agree that asml invested 
immense resources in making euv the final,   usable product that it is today. they took 
a huge risk and swung at the right pitch,   ending up to be the right company at the 
right time. and we agree that europeans   should not always go along with what america says. 
maintaining national sovereignty is important. but the euv example to me is more clear 
cut than most. europeans, south koreans,   indians, taiwanese. a whole bunch of people 
contributed to the effort. but america founded   and led it. (side note to the side note. i 
am aware of an eu-backed euclides program   pursuing euv but it apparently did not seem 
to be as successful as euv llc.) and if you   have worked in a tech startup before, you would 
know that the founder's say matters the most. i got the idea for this video largely because of 
the nationalist internet food fight that tends to   flair up every time tsmc appears in the news. you 
have a choir of comments which immediately sing   "but they all depend on asml ... which is dutch."   which in turn triggers talk of asml's 
american subsidiaries and so on. setting immature nationalism aside, the 
actual question is a good one to ask.   in my opinion, good questions help you get a 
better understanding of the situation at hand. let us use a metaphor. semiconductor foundry 
work is like baking a pound cake. you have   raw materials, you need to process them 
together in special ways over many steps   for which you use specialized equipment 
(an oven by middleby, for instance,   or a blender by hamilton beach) to process 
those materials into a final product. you can liken tsmc to the baker in the kitchen. 
asml is like middleby here, providing the high   tech oven. the baking of a cake is just one 
step out of many. a critical one for sure but   if you focus too much on it then you ignore the 
importance of stirring together the flour and eggs   as well as applying the creamy frosting to give 
it that extra deliciousness. your cake might suck. same with microchips. lithography is a 
critical step in the final development,   but there's many more that need to be finished off   before the final chip is ready to be 
put into a computer or graphics card.   packaging and testing, for instance. 
otherwise it's still just a chunk of silicon. this makes intuitive sense when you think 
about the progress made by other companies   using asml's same euv machines. tsmc has the 
most euv machines in the world, but intel   and samsung also got the same machines. intel was 
literally the lead investor in making euv happen.   neither of those foundries are 
at the same level of yield and   output. cooking skills and experience 
matter - as my sucky cakes can attest. when the customer sits down to the final product, 
they see and enjoy a cake. can you attribute a   percentage "credit" of the cake's deliciousness 
to the eggs and the flour from which it was made?   to the heat from the oven in which it was 
baked? to the skill of the cook who baked it? you can try but it all ends up in a ridiculous 
exercise of numbers pulled out of your butt.   because the reality is they all came 
together in a single harmonious moment   to give you this amazing thing.