we've got a robot arm down the hall that we use to do plant deconstruction. uh, maybe that's for another video. offscreen speaker: well sh..should we go and see what it .. can we... look at it .. or? well? we ..we might be able to look at it! it'll be messy because you know. its a phd student. of course the doors might be locked. he might have gone to the gym.... (he) spends a lot of time in the gym. (sound of doorknob turning) (subltle door creak) here we go! so its.. its in some sense in the prototype stage so you know, lots of cable around... but you can see its basically... taking pictures of ... the  ... plant. and actually in fact the.. the camera here is static. and at the moment, the turntable is moving. and this is our tame phd student, jonathan the way that this works is that the camera will try and move to get the best possible view of.. *aside* i actually move outta the way of this
offscreen narrator: (friendly chuckling) offscreen narrator: right lets just see what that says "do not touch any of the equipment" yeah, i come here and move it about when hes not here just to annoy him uuuhhmmm so! ...but.. what it will do is try to move to get the best view of the plant it can some plants are different sizes, so you're gonna have to move backwards to get them into shot some of them are smaller with more intricate leaves, and you're gonna try and move in closer so this is still a work in progress but its something we're working towards space carving is one of the things we're examining here but we're obviously doing a lot of other stereo matching, and some rgb stereo as well.  we talked about stereo matching, right? so we've got some cameras andd we've calibrated them. we know where they are in 3 dimensions. and then we can use, uh, feature correspondence between different images to work out how far away something is or lots of things in the scene and we can begin to build up a disparity map now.. there are lots of ways of doing this today we're gonna talk about one that's slightly unusual that does see quite a lot of use in research in academia uhm. and. ...in... client science and things like that where i obviously do a bit of work. i mean that's called "space carving" "space carving" is the idea of, in a sense, of starting with a big lump of clay working out where you know your object is not and cutting that clay away until you get something that kind of resembles what you know your object is supposed to be except, its based only on what you can see in 2-dimensional images so a good example would be if i give you this, if i show you this.. alright what... what's that? offscreen: er. ok? thats a serious. its not... its not a trick question offscreen narrator: okay well that's obviously...a..a mug. its a cylinder with some ..uh (interrupting) it is a mug, right !?! 
...its a cylinder with a handle on it which is...
...i don't know what the shape of that is right? but the thing is you can't absol- you can't acutally be sure. ok you've only got one camera. you're looking at it from this direction. this mug could go off for one meter.. backwards! into this wall. and you wouldn't absolutely be sure that it didn't do that apart from your intuition about what it is. ok? and, and the fact that you're a human. you know its a mug. offscreen narrator: i mean, thats..(stammering) .. sorry its just that because i'm on the handheld and not on the tripod i can move side to side... (interrupting) you can move side to side, ok? so one of the ways we work out what an object shape is truly, we move around it and see it from other angles ok? or we rotate the object and find out it isn't in fact a meter long because i would have just hit myself in the head!
(offscreen laughter) ok? ...so! but the point is that until we see it from a different angle we can't be absolutely sure now in .. on a computer... that's more true, even because they can't intuit anything they.. so ... they say: "well? its a square box with a 'lil circle on the end of it" and that's all they can tell us! ok? they can't tell us what shape it is, they can't tell us that its hollow uh. or anything else because uh.. how?... how would they know? how would they know that it isn't longer this way? ok? unless we start to build in some sort of rules. so, what space carving does is look at this mug and try and carve a piece of clay in that shape ok? but under the assumption that it could go back here right? then we turn it and go: "oh! it doesn't." and cut that bit off and then we turn it again. and we cut that bit off. and we keep doing this until we cut off as much as we can the more views we get the better that..that the.. ...the result.