one of the interesting aspects
of the story of christ and the christian story in general, is
that within the story of christ, you see that christ chose his
own betrayer. and this, of course, is a testimony to how in
a larger sense, in christianity, we have the sense that
antichrist will rise out of christianity, will appear as a
side effect or a kind of strange deformation of the christian
message. and so there are several aspects to antichrist.
i'm going to look especially at one, which i called something
like weaponized compassion. and we will see this version or this
aspect of antichrist, especially in the story of judas iscariot,
who is the disciple that christ chose, who ultimately ended up
betraying him. and so there are several aspects
of antichrist. there are two aspects which we could see
almost as something like opposed to each other or two extremes of
what antichrist looks like. the one that people usually tend to
look upon is the empire idea of antichrist or the beast, this
notion of rome as being something like the horror of
babylon, all this kind of imagery of antichrist. and it's
especially happened in the protestant reformation where,
you know, the notion of the relationship between the
catholic church and rome was related to a certain extent with
the idea of a parody of christ and of christ's message
and something like antichrist. and there's something about
that which is interesting, because there is an aspect in
the story of antichrist which is related to
st. peter, because st. peter is, of course, the one who denies
christ. st. peter is also the one who, although he is the
first one to recognise christ, he ultimately refuses one aspect
of christ, refuses for a certain amount of time, one aspect of
christ's message, which is that christ must die. and when st.
peter wants to oppose that, wants to say that christ will
not die on the cross, then that is when christ tells st. peter,
"get behind the satan." and so, of course, st. peter is
important and there's a very positive aspect of st. peter,
which is true, and which is good to understand. but the story of christ is very
complex, and contains all this subtlety within it. and one of
the aspects of st. peter, of the strength of the christian story
and the strength of the, let's say, the possibilities of
christianity, also has a dark side, which is the possibility
of pride, the possibility of not thinking that christianity is
about self sacrifice, and the willingness to die for others
and the willingness to die in general. but there is also a
flip side to that image of antichrist, which is that
although christ tells us to care for the poor, tells us to tend
to the orphan and the widow and to care for the weak, to be
attentive to the margins, be attentive to those that are
usually excluded, cast out, there's also a dark side to
that, which is the antichrist aspect of it, which is something
that we could call weaponized compassion. and this version of
weaponized compassion appears in the other disciple in the story
of christ that has to do with this antichrist aspect and that
is, of course, judas iscariot. judas iscariot is the one who
betrays christ ultimately, betrays him with a kiss. and
this is related to this weaponized compassion that we
see in the story of judas. and that we will especially see in
the story where mary of bethany washes christ's feet. so i'm
going to read the text with you. and we're going to look at
what's going on in the story. and what that can mean for us,
especially today, because we are faced with some of that. and it
tends to confuse christians, just like also when christianity
is strong and empire-like it can also let's say, confuse some
christians as to what the real goal of christianity is. and so the texts appeared in the
gospel of st. john, chapter 12, starting at verse 1. 'six days
before the passover, jesus therefore came to bethany, where
lazarus was whom jesus had raised from the dead, so they
gave a dinner for him. martha served and lazarus was one of
those reclining with him at table. mary therefore took a
pound of expensive ointment, made from pure nard and anointed
the feet of jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. the house
was filled with the fragrance of the perfume but judas is
iscariot, one of his disciples, who was about to betray him,
said, "why was this ointment not sold for 300 denari and given to
the poor?" he said this, not because he cared for the poor,
but because he was a thief. and having charge of the money bag,
he used to help himself to what was put into it. jesus said,
"leave her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my
burial, for the poor you always have with you, but you do not
always have me."' and so what's going on in this
story? we have an image of a woman who takes very expensive,
takes something very expensive, and focuses it on worship. now
we could understand that as many things, of course, we can
understand it in general of the idea of creating beauty in order
to worship god, we could also understand it in terms of the
amount of attention, the amount of time and resources and
valuable things that we put into the service of worshipping
christ. and so the trick that judas
wants to take is he wants to take a good, which is caring for
the poor. now, of course, caring for the poor is a good, not only
is it a good, but it is a good that christ himself has asked us
to do. christ is constantly telling people to care for the
poor, and to help the weak. but he's trying to make that good
into the highest good. and this is where there is a problem. and
so he tells the woman that she should not have used this
expensive thing, this precious thing, to worship christ, but
that she should have used it and sold it and given it to the
poor. now, what's interesting in this is, this is why i called it
weaponized compassion. because ultimately, judas doesn't care
for the poor. what judas wants is to acquire power for himself.
and so he wants her to sell this for money, so that he can dip
into the money bag and take the money for himself. now, of
course, this is very specific in the story. but you can
understand that in many ways, which is that, many people can
use compassion, or use compassion as a weapon in order
to acquire power for themselves. now, this is a temptation which
is becoming stronger and stronger in the christian
church. it is something which is blinding many christians to some
aspects of what is going on around them. and because they
don't know how to react to it. there is a tendency to make
people feel guilty about their own christian values, to make
them feel as if those very christian values, the very
christian beliefs they have, is somehow a compromise in
compassion. and that if they were truly compassionate, they
would actually sacrifice their own christian beliefs. the ultimate version of
something like this is in the movie 'silence', which many of
you have probably seen. in this movie a christian missionary is
sent to japan. and the christian missionary is faced with a
serious problem, which is that in trying to support the
christian church there, the japanese authorities realise
that if we torture the missionaries, we have a problem
because the missionaries are willing to die for their faith.
but if we torture other people, then that is putting the right
pressure on the missionaries, because their own values, their
own compassion, will compel them to deny their faith in order to
preserve the life of others. and so, of course, i can't imagine
being in that situation. it's a horrible situation to be in. and
i don't want to judge anybody who's in this situation who
would have compromised or fallen. but the very fact that
this is framed in the story, that in the story there is a
sense in which although the missionary denied his faith, and
ended up completely denying his own belief in christ and his own
attachment to god, ultimately there was something holy about
that very action. and it's shown that in the end, when he's
dying, and he's being cremated, we see that there's a little
cross hidden on him or something like that. and that is to show
that somehow the very denial of his faith was done out of
compassion. and that this would be the ultimate christian act,
in a way, would be to deny your faith out of compassion. and so you can apply this
problem to many, many other things. you can apply it, of
course, right now to many social issues in which those social
issues are related to things that christians hold dear in
their values. but there is a pressure, there's a pressure on
christians, to, out of compassion, to deny their own
stance. that is, not only have compassion for the weak, have
compassion for the sinners, have compassion for people who are
not able to hold the standard, because who can? no one, no
christian can hold the ultimate standard that christ lays out
for us. but that compromising on your standard would be a more
christian thing to do, than to simply love others and be
compassionate while holding to the highest standard. now
there's a place where you see that happen all the time. but
there's another aspect of this which is going on right now,
which is related almost directly to the story of judas and the
notion of compromising worship in the name of something else,
compromising worship, in the name of compassion. there is a narrative which is
being pushed, and which is very strong. and it's strong, because
it's so long, it's enduring. you know, it's been two years now,
where people are being told that out of compassion - that
christians shouldn't commune and worship together, out of
compassion for others. that is, that out of a desire to preserve
the weak and to preserve the helpless people
should sacrifice worship, and should not practice the
christian practices of singing together before their god, of
communing together to the holy sacraments. and this is a very,
very fascinating thing, because you can see that in a way it is,
it is a very strong tool. it is a very strong tool because it
dives right into what christians believe. and it dives right into
the christian's high values and tries to set those values up as
the highest above what is more important, which is worship and
submission to god. and you see it, you actually see it very
interestingly, you can notice that if you look at the
difference between pope benedict and pope francis, it's very
fascinating, because pope benedict wanted to bring back
worship. and so he brought out some old crosses that were in
treasuries and wanted to kind of show the beauty with vestments,
and this beautiful aspect of the christian
liturgical services and christian worship. and he was
eviscerated, he was eviscerated by the media, eviscerated by
people, ultimately, who hate christianity, let's be honest.
but nonetheless, there was a manner in which people gobbled
it up, and people completely gave in to this narrative. and
now here comes pope francis, who is the very opposite, who tends
to, let's say, play down the worship aspect of the church and
play up the social aspect of the church, play up the idea of
helping the poor, and there's absolutely nothing wrong - of
course, it is wonderful for christians to help the poor, but
the notion that we should, the notion that worshipping christ
is somehow bad, and that putting valuable things in the service
and worship of god is somehow horrible and disconnected.
whereas helping the poor is something that everybody loves,
and everybody finds is beautiful, i think is definitely
an issue. and it's an issue that although i sympathise with
christians who struggle to see the normal hierarchy, this is
actually the normal hierarchy of being. this is really
representing the manner in which attention to the highest,
worship of god, you know, placing yourself in the right
position towards god, alone and together into communion. and,
you know, engaging in the liturgical dance, engaging in
the grand singing and dancing of worship is more important than
the social actions of the church. and of course, i know
some people are gonna watch this and going to get angry and think
that i am somehow diminishing or bringing down the idea of
helping the poor and of course not, i spent seven years of my
life as a volunteer in africa in the desire just to serve christ
in that manner. but nonetheless, i still need to re-emphasize the
natural, the normal hierarchy of things, which is that if you try
to sacrifice the top part for the second part, you are going
to break down and you can see that in many of the churches
that have embraced social justice, no manner how they
phrase it as their highest value, higher than their creed,
higher than their own original beliefs, higher than the values
which were given to them, you know, from the apostles all the
way - then, and they're willing to even sometimes criticize
scripture, criticize the saints, in order to
bring about this social justice transformation that they want.
that's not going to work, it's going to break down, it's going
to lead to a breakdown, because it doesn't follow the normal -
if you focus on secondary goods as the highest good no matter
how good it is, it will ultimately lead to a breakdown. one of the key ways to
recognise if what is being used or what is being promoted is
something like weaponized compassion is to look at the
power aspect. because one of the ways that we can see it in the
story of judas is that judas is telling someone else to be
compassionate, and is reproaching someone else for not
being compassionate with the purpose of gaining power for
themselves. and so this is the best way to see whether or not
this is weaponized compassion. and i think that we have seen
plenty of that in the past two years. we have seen plenty of
authorities tell us that we need to act in this or that way, in
order to be compassionate. and what's interesting is that, you
know, on the one hand, there's this idea that you are not being
compassionate, you are being selfish by not doing this or
that. but then when you look behind you the same authorities
telling you that are holding a massive baseball bat over your
head. and the consequence for not being compassionate is that
you will feel the brunt of their raw power on you. and you'll
also notice that ultimately the action that they want you to
pose is to the increase of their power on you, and the increase
of their power on others. and so this is the way in which you can
recognise weaponized compassion, it's that, it is ultimately a
making you feel bad about something, in order to acquire
power for the people who are promoting this. compassion is something which is
freely given. compassion is something which we should always
be examining ourselves to see whether or not we are being
compassionate, and what is the motivation of our actions. we
should not be trying to impose compassion on others. this is
something which you do not see in the christian story, you
know. that is, there is no law towards compassion, there is no
rule which makes you compassionate. you can follow
all the rules you want, compassion is a disposition of
the heart, compassion is a disposition of the person, it is
not about rules and about following this or that thing.
you could act in ways that look very compassionate on the
outside and are very selfish inside, and vice versa. and so,
compassion is not something which is subject to the law, it
is something which is subject to the heart. and this is, of
course, the very difference that christ brings to us, which is
the difference between the externals and the external law,
which is useful and helpful, and the inner true reason of why
someone is acting. and so when you see someone or when you see
an organisation try to impose compassion by law, or try to
make you feel as if by not being compassionate you are going to
receive the full brunt of the modern state, then we have a
serious problem. and so, of course, i do not want
to say that there isn't also the other aspect of antichrist,
which is the aspect of believing that christianity is a political
weapon, believing that christianity is a tool for
nationalism. all these things exist, and they exist now, let's
be honest, the prideful aspect of the antichrist. but the other
aspect, the weaponized compassion one, is an aspect,
which i think is more misunderstood today. and it
would be helpful for us to understand that as we continue
to face the crisis that we are dealing with, you know, that
we've been dealing with for the past few years. and so i hope this was helpful
to help you understand some aspects of this pattern and i'll
talk to you very soon. as you know, the symbolic world
is not just a bunch of videos on youtube. we are also a podcast,
which you can find on your usual podcast platform. but we also
have a website with a blog and several very interesting
articles by very intelligent people that have been thinking
about symbolism on all kinds of subjects. we also have a clips
channel, a facebook group. you know, there's a whole lot of
ways that you can get more involved in the exploration and
the discussion of symbolism. don't forget that my brother
matthieu wrote a book, called the language of creation, which
is a very powerful synthesis of a lot of the ideas that i
explore. and so please go ahead and explore this world. you can
also participate by, you know, buying things that i've
designed, t-shirts with different designs on them. and
you can also support this podcast and these videos,
through paypal or through patreon. everybody who supports
me has access to an extra video a month and there are also all
kinds of other goodies and tiers that you can get involved with.
so everybody, thank you again and thank you for your support.