so we're talking about possibly the most 
famous equation in maths. you've all heard   of it - euler's identity - the most beautiful 
equation in all of maths. e to the ipi plus 1   equals zero. we've got the five most important 
or famous mathematical constants: zero, 1, i,   pi and the number e. there's a reason this 
is the most beautiful equation in maths,   and the most famous probably mathematical 
equation; but there's so much more going on here   so what i really want to talk about is euler's 
formula. we need to start with complex numbers.   we've got a number z which we can write as x plus 
i times y. here we call x the real part of our   complex number, y is the imaginary part, and the 
number i is the square root of minus 1. now this   kind of came about because as mathematicians we 
wanted to be able to solve all possible quadratic   equations; so we said let's call the root of minus 
1 i, and now we have a solution to any possible   quadratic equation by the quadratic formula. but 
the best way to think about these is to draw a   graph. we have the x-axis is the real part of z, 
the y-axis is the imaginary part of z, and then   i can represent my complex number as actually a 
point in 2d space with coordinates (x,y). so i go   x across, let's say that's here, and then i go y up, 
so that's going to be about there. so this position   z is equal to position (x,y) in my 2d space. and 
this actually uniquely defines my complex number;   because if i say to you let's go x across here 
and y up there's no other point that satisfies   that particular property or that definition. now 
that's one way of representing a complex number,   and now there's another way which is the polar 
form. so for that one we have z is equal to r e   to the i theta. and here r we call this the 
modulus of z, and theta represents the argument   of z. now these are just fancy words which 
basically, the modulus means the distance   from the origin to our complex number. so if 
i draw a straight line which is the shortest   distance between two points, this distance is r, and 
that's this modulus of z which goes here. and then   theta is an angle and the angle is important 
because if i just told you we're at a distance r   from the origin then i could be here; but maybe 
i'm up here, this is also a distance r from the   origin. and in fact you're going to get a circle.
all of these points will be a distance r from   the origin, so we need to also give theta this 
angle. so we measure that from the positive x-axis   like so. so if i specify the distance i am from the 
origin, and the angle from the x-axis, there's only   one point - just like we uniquely had one point by 
specifying horizontal and vertical distance. so now   we've got two representations for our complex 
number z, so we want to compare them because   they're the same complex number. and the way you do 
this is actually going to be by drawing a triangle.  we drop that down, create a right angle, then we now 
know that this distance here is x, and we know that   this height here is y; and then we know that our 
diagonal is r. so now we can use pythagoras; theorem   which tells us that x squared plus y squared 
is r squared - so r has to be positive because   it's a distance, is equal to the square root of x 
squared plus y squared. so we now if we wanted we   could replace that by this, but what we really want 
to do is figure out what's happening with theta.   because again we know the- the height here and 
we know the horizontal distance and we know r, so   trigonometry tells me that cos of theta is equal 
to adjacent over hypotenuse, so that's x over r.   sine of theta is opposite over hypotenuse, that's y 
over r, so now we can actually say that x is equal   to r cos theta and y is equal to r sine theta. so 
we've got these various relationships between x, y,   r and theta; and we have these two representations 
of z. but if we say this is the same complex number,   which on my picture it is, these all have to be 
equal. so we have these two representations of z,  so we know that z is equal to the distance times 
e to the i theta, the polar form. we also know   that this is x plus iy; but we've got these two 
relationships for x and y. so let's plug those in   and get r cos theta plus i times y which is r sine 
theta. so if i now cancel the r, what i'm left with   is this awesome equation which is euler's 
formula; which is the e to the i theta is equal to   cos theta plus i sine theta. so that right there is 
euler's formula and it comes from complex numbers   and just drawing out some triangles and figuring 
out some trigonometry. now euler's formula is   awesome, i love euler's formula. there's loads 
of really cool stuff that we can do with this   and i'm going to show you three, i think, of my 
favourite things that we can do with euler's   formula. so we've seen where it comes from, it's 
all to do with complex numbers, triangles, different   things. now we've got it, let's play around with 
it and see what we can figure out. the first thing   that we're going to do is actually consider the 
graphs of sine and cos. so the cos curve starts at   1, comes down goes up, and similarly goes down and 
goes up like that. and then sine same shape but   goes through zero like that. cos is what we call 
an even function, so this means that it's symmetric   about the y-axis. so if you cover up that side, if 
you imagine putting a mirror here, you'd see the   same thing. and this tells you that cos of positive 
theta here is actually equal to cos of minus theta.   now for sine this is odd, and this tells us that 
sine of theta is equal to minus sine of minus   theta. so if i look at this point down here this is minus
1, so then minus minus 1 gives you 1 which is the   one you get up here. so it's minus sine of minus 
theta. now we can use these two relationships   to get a really neat expression for cos and 
sine. because we've got this form for e to the   i theta, and if we look at e to the minus i theta - 
so what i'm doing really is i'm taking theta and   replacing it by minus theta in the top, and then i 
do the same in here, so this is cos of minus theta   plus i sine of minus theta. so that's just taking 
euler's formula, replace theta by minus theta   in all three places, we have this result. but 
then we know that cos of minus theta, because   cos is even, you get cos theta. sine of minus theta, 
sine is odd, sine of minus theta would be minus   sine of theta if i sort of do that. multiply 
them both by minus 1. so that's minus i sine   of theta. and now comparing this equation and 
this one we can add them together. so e to the   i theta plus e to the minus i theta. so i've got a 
cos theta and then i've got another cos theta, so   what i'm actually going to do is divide 
by 2, because i know what's happening,   and that gives me single cos theta. and 
then i've got minus i sine theta plus i   sine theta, so they cancel. so i just get cos 
theta. so we've now got another definition   for the cos function, this thing that we've seen 
the graph of and that we use in trigonometry,   purely in terms of e and i. so it's a really 
nice- i really like this because you're taking   this thing to do with triangles and this wave-like 
function and you're now expressing it in terms of   euler's number naturally appearing and also this 
imaginary number i. and then we can do the same   with- to get an expression for sine of theta;
so we have to just subtract them to make them   cancel. so you do e to the i theta minus e to the 
minus i theta, because now that one's positive and   that's now negative because we're subtracting this 
one and then you've got i sine theta minus another one   so that becomes plus 2i sine theta. so you 
have to divide by 2i to get sine theta. so   we have a similar expression, so we can write 
cos and sine both in terms of the exponential   function. so that's my first favourite thing to 
do with euler's formula. now this leads us into   my second favourite thing to do with euler's 
formula, which is to do with infinite series.  so we're going to start with the 
infinite series for the exponential   function. i mentioned this before actually in the 
video on domes. e to the x we can write as 1 plus x,   plus x squared over 2 factorial, plus x cubed over 
3 factorial, x4 over 4 factorial; and this carries   on forever. so this is just a way of writing 
out e to the power of some number, we can write   it in this infinitely long string of pieces added 
together. and what this means is that the graph of   e, because we keep adding things, starts really 
small, goes through 1, and then shoots up like   exponential growth. so that's what's happening 
with this function. now we want to figure out   what e to the i theta and e to the minus i theta 
are in this form, and then if we add them together   the plan is we can now get infinite series for 
cos and sine. another way of representing these   cool trigonometric or wave-like functions as 
an infinite series based on what we have for   the exponential here. so we need to calculate e to 
the i theta. so that's just going to be 1 then we   replace x with i theta - plus i theta - plus i theta 
squared over two factorial, plus i theta cubed   etc. and what we need to know is what's happening 
when we square and cube i. rhat's the key thing   because we know that i is the square root of 
minus 1, so that means that i squared is minus 1,   so that means that i cubed is i squared times i 
so that's minus i. and then i to the fourth, that's   i cubed times i which is minus i times i which 
is minus i squared which is 1 - because i squared   is minus 1. so we've got this little like 
cycle between the numbers; so you start with   i, then you multiply by i to go to minus 1, then you 
multiply by i to go to minus i, then you multiply   by i to go to 1 because that was i to the fourth, 
and then you multiply by i again you get back   there. so it actually creates a cycle - every fourth 
power of i comes back on itself. so we can use this   in our infinite expansion. so now we can plug this 
nice cycle into our formula. so what we're going to   get is e to the i theta is: we've got a 1 plus i 
theta, plus i squared theta squared but i squared   was minus 1 so that's minus theta squared 2 
factorial. then the cubed was minus i so then   it'll be minus i, and we've still got the theta 
cubed over 3 factorial. and then the last one,  the fourth one was 1, so that's now plus theta 
to the fourth over 4 factorial. and then the   pattern carries on. so the next one would have an 
i in front of it and be a theta to the 5 over   5 factorial, and then a minus, and then a minus 
i, then a 1, and then repeating this cycle. now   we want to do the same for e to the minus i theta.
and in order to do that we need to know powers of   minus i. so we've got minus i, then we want to now 
do minus i squared - so that's minus i times minus i   which is going to be plus i squared, which is 
minus 1. then we've got minus i cubed is minus 1   times another minus i so that gives me a minus 
1 times a minus - so i'm going to write this out.  that's 1 times minus i, so they give you a plus so 
that's just i, and then we multiply again minus i   to the fourth is going to now be minus i squared 
which is minus minus 1 which is 1. and then we're going   to get back again. so just like before we start 
at minus i, we multiply by i to get minus 1, we multiply by i to get i and again by- sorry by 
minus i to get i by minus i to get 1 and then   by minus i to go back. so it's the same kind 
of idea except two key things: this started at i,  this starts at minus i then it's the same. those 
are different, that's the same. so in our formula   what we're going to get is e to the minus i theta 
is 1 minus i theta. then it didn't change so it's   still minus theta squared over 2 factorial. then 
it was now plus i theta cubed 3 factorial; and   then plus theta to the fourth over 4 factorial 
and the pattern repeats. so now the big result,  what we were trying to get with our infinite 
series, is we said that cos theta was   e to the i theta plus e to the minus i 
theta over 2. so let's add them together.   so 1 plus 1 is 2 divided by 2 - 1. i theta 
minus i theta disappears so we get no term there.   minus theta squared minus another theta 
squared is minus 2 theta squared   but then we divide by 2 so i get minus theta 
squared 2 factorial. theta cubed term cancel,   opposite sign, and then we get theta to the 
fourth over 4 factorial and this carries on.   so what we're seeing here is the cos term has all 
of the even powers of theta; and there was a bit   of a clue earlier when we had the graph of cos 
when we said it was even. this doesn't prove it   by any stretch but even and even it's nice, so 
we've got all the even powers for cos. and we do   the exact same with sine of theta but this time we 
do e to the i theta minus minus sine theta over 2i.   so the first term they subtract each other to 
give zero. this one minus this one gives me 2i   theta divided by 2i so i just get theta. that 
one minus this one comes a plus so they cancel. minus i minus another i, so that gives me minus 
2i theta cubed divided by 2i, so i get minus   theta cubed over 3 factorial; and then that will 
carry on as well in the same way. so we get power   1, power 3, power 5 - we get all the odd powers for 
our sine series. so just like the exponential term   is written here as 1 plus x plus x squared 
cubed divided by the factorials, cos and sine,   cos is all of the even powers - where you alternate, 
it goes minus, plus, minus, plus, minus, plus.   and sine is all the odd powers going plus, minus, 
plus, minus, plus, minus. so from the infinite series   for the exponential function we now get these nice 
infinite series for cos and theta. and this is why   sine of theta is often approximated 
by just theta if you're an engineer; because it's the first term in your infinite expansion. 
(brady: all right. you seem excited by that.)   i love infinite series, i think infinite- the fact 
that you can take this function that looks like a   wave or this function that's to do with triangles 
and write it as an infinite things added together;   it still blows my mind. like i know it's true, 
because i've just hopefully convinced you that   it's true, but it's still- i don't know. it's
things like this with maths that excite me like   talking about infinity and it's actually making 
sense i think it's just really amazing we've been   able to do this. so the big finale - actually 
um should we get one final piece of paper.   so we've seen hopefully some really 
cool stuff involving euler's formula; we derived it,   e to the i theta using complex numbers we 
showed this was cos theta plus i sine theta, we then played around with some infinite series 
and i got very excited and now what we want to   do - i did promise you we were going to do some cool 
stuff around euler's identity. so this is the key:  euler's formula is really the foundations behind 
euler's identity. euler's identity is like the pretty   facade of the building that everyone loves, but the 
heavy lifting is being done by euler's formula. and   to get it you just substitute in a value of theta. 
you just plug in theta equals pi. so e to the ipi   is equal to cos of pi plus i times sine of pi.
and now if we look at our graphs we can read   off the value of cos, cos of pi is minus 1, sine 
of pi is zero. so e to the ipi according to euler's   formula is minus 1, which we rearrange to get e 
to the ipi plus 1 equals zero - euler's identity.   now that's my favourite form of it, some of you 
might prefer the e to the ipi equals minus 1,   but i quite like getting the zero in there. 
- (yeah it needs a zero for me.)   i think- i agree. this is- this is the one i got tattooed, this is this is the 
one. now you can plug in other values of theta; this   is why i wanted to share with you all euler's 
formula, because you can plug in any value of theta   and create your own identity of this kind of form.
we can plug in pi by 2, which is 90 degrees, and we   get e to the ipi by 2 is cos of pi by 2 - well that's 
zero - and then plus i sine of pi by 2; sine of pi by 2   is 1. so e to the ipi by 2 is i. so that's a nice 
alternative definition of i which has come from   the same formula as euler's identity did. we can 
then try 45 degrees, so that's pi by 4, so that's   halfway up here. so e to the ipi by 4 equals cos 
of pi by 4 which is root 2 over 2, and then sine   of pi by 4 is actually the same value. and this is 
very nice because this number is actually equal to   the square root of i, i to the half. because what 
you do is you take this formula, and if you take   i to the power of a half, that means multiplying 
this by a half which gives you e to the ipi by 4. so this is another way of showing 
the square root of i is given by   1 plus i all multiplied by root 2 over 2. and 
then the final two that we might want to look at   are going to be 60 degrees, so that's pi over 3, so 
e to the ipi over 3 is going to be cos of 60. so cos   of 60 is quite far down, cos is quite 
small, so that's a half. plus i times sine of   60 so that's root 3 over 2. and then the last 
one which is my favourite: pi by 6 or 30 degrees.   so i like this one because you bring in a 6
which is a new number we haven't seen any of our   other identities; and that's going to be cos of 30 
is root 3 over 2, and then sine of 30 is a half. so   we get all of these sort of other identities using 
our most popular numbers from triangles let's say.   you get euler's identity when it's pi, when it's 
90 degrees you get a definition of i - you get the   square root of i when you have 45 degrees, that's 
quite neat. and then we have these two which i   like because you just bring in all of these other 
numbers, so you have this really cool relationship   between 6, 2, 3, i, e - all kinds of things. 
- (you know what you have to call the sixth one? the sexy identity.) all right so we've got euler's identity, 
and then we've got the sexy identity: e to the i   pi by 6 is root 3 over 2 plus i over 
2, that is- that is screaming sex appeal to me.  if you like this video you're probably gonna 
like all the courses and learning to be had at   brilliant. brilliant's crammed with interactive 
content that'll expand your mind, make you   smarter, and also well it's just kind 
of fun. do you think you'd get this one? now watching videos is great, 
i'm glad you do it! but nothing   helps you learn better than actually 
interacting with problems - like this. see it all at brilliant.org, or to get 20% off 
the full premium all-inclusive subscription, use the url brilliant.org/numberphile. it's 
there on the screen and in the description.   if you're already a subscriber, 
and frankly why wouldn't you be;   then it's also a really great 
gift for the learner in your life. you couldn't use any ideas that had 
gone before either, so you had to really   do something new. you could only write down 
finite numbers, so you can't be writing down   infinite ordinals or anything like that 
it's just finite numbers we're allowed...