- this is one of the dirtiest
beaches in the entire world. and we're gonna pick up
every single piece of trash on this beach. starting with this water bottle. one out of millions of pieces of trash. - we did it! - this will take forever. [upbeat island music] - bottle me up, baby. i'm hungry for your plastic. - as you can see, this is taking forever. oscar, come on in. this is oscar, professional beach cleaner. is this basically how
you guys clean beaches? - mainly, we do the big stuff first and then we bring a lot of
people with sifters as well for the small stuff. - you scoop it into this thing and then shake out the sand, and you got a bunch of trash. this right here is the first bag of trash. hundreds more to go. how
do we do this quicker? - we just need more people. - that seems simple. can you clap for me? [oscar clapping] there you go! all the volunteers. (crowd cheering) - okay guys, we're gonna
clean this up using the vice. we're gonna clean this up. groups of four! groups of four in this area. - part of me wanted to
see if me and the boys could clean up this beach by ourselves, and the other part of me realizes that would've taken a year. - i could've told you that. - jimmy! - [jimmy] yeah? the ocean's putting
more trash on the beach. there's so much underwear in the ocean. - i'm enacting a new law. thou shall not throw your
underwear in the ocean. - wait, did you guys
already fill up a bag? - yeah. - you guys are better than us. they are professionals to be fair. (upbeat music) - after 12 hours of cleanup, this is what we managed to
achieve, which isn't enough. boys, bring it in. tomorrow, i'm gonna bring
in 10 times the volunteers. tomorrow. (record scratching) (flip-flop squeaks) - tomorrow. - it's now the next day. (crowd cheers) (upbeat music) - i'm helping. - nah, nah, nah. - but as slowly as possible. - who's more bueno? mark rober or mrbeast? - mrbeast. (piano music) - make sure you watch
until the end of the video to find out how we're gonna pick up 30 million pounds of trash. - thank you for coming to our country and help us with this initiative. that is really awesome. (upbeat music) - right here. right there. stop. he's not stopping. i'm gonna move. in this bad boy is 6,000 pounds of trash. and now we have 36,000 pounds of trash, which weighs the same as
3,000 cats or three t-rexes. whichever you prefer. while i was talking
with some of the locals, they mentioned that there's
a beach down the street that was also very dirty. so i said nolan with a bunch of volunteers to go clean that beach as well. there's a whole car bumper right here. - there's a car bumper here?
did this come outta the ocean? - people litter weird things. - what type of trash have
you seen along the beach? - most importantly, most
commonly is plastics. and we see that in every
form on the beach here. - they ended up removing
12,000 pounds of trash, which brought us up to a total of 50,000 pounds of trash
from just two beaches. - check out this power move. watch this. look at that! - is that how you want us to dump it? - yeah, dude, i'm taking one for the team. i'm a team player. oh yeah. i don't even have to look. - there you go, mark. - it actually kind of works. - see? - and if you guys look over there, we're actually getting close
to the end of the beach. this is what the beach looked like at the start of the video. and this is what it looks
like with like 20% left. we're getting there. - we're doing it! - unfortunately, between
the ocean washing up trash to the beach and rivers
bringing in new trash from the mainland, obviously this
beach is gonna get dirty again. but with your guys' help, we
can stop a much bigger issue. - we're almost done, jimmy. - i know! four straight
days of picking up trash. and just like that, we removed
over 60,000 pounds of trash from the world's dirtiest beach. and even though this 60,000
pounds of trash we picked up might seem impressive, there is sadly way too much
trash still in the ocean. two years ago, we crushed
our goals with team trees and planted 20 million trees. - and now it's time to do it again. - which is why we, along with
hundreds of other creators, are launching team seas. and for every $1 you
guys donate, like this, one less pound of trash
will be in the ocean. - but what if i wanted
to donate $10, jimmy? - i conveniently have 10
pounds of trash right here that is now out of the ocean. - boom. gone. - you get the point. one dollar donated as one less
pound of trash in the ocean. and i'd like to personally
thank youtube originals for supporting team seas
and helping us fund it. they're gonna be matching
the first $400,000 worth of donations, dollar for dollar. and we wanna remove 30 million pounds of trash from the ocean. - which is just so freaking audacious. this only happens if we all work together. - half the money we raise is going towards funding volunteer beach
cleanups like we did here today, all across the world, as well as literally fishing trash out of the ocean. - and the other half
will be used for these trash-eating robots that
pick up trash 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, from rivers
that flow to the ocean. - go to teamseas.org or
click the donate button below this video right now. $1 equals one less pound
of trash in the ocean. making real change like
this isn't gonna be easy. go donate right now and help
us remove 30 million pounds of trash from the ocean
before the end of the year. let's show the world that
we want a clean ocean. (soulful music) - what are you doing? get outta here. go donate.
(bell dinging multiple times)