today we are talking about sleeping beauty in 
the form of the sleeping beauty paradox. it   goes as follows: sleeping beauty is going 
to be put to sleep on a sunday - i should   clarify sleeping beauty has agreed to do this 
and knows all of the details of the experiment,   this is important. sleeping beauty is put to sleep 
on sunday. a coin is then flipped; if the coin is   tails we are going to wake her up on monday, we 
then ask her some questions, and then she's put   back to sleep with some amnesia inducing drug so 
she has no memory that she was ever awake. this   is again very important to the setup. and then 
we also - same thing - wake her up on tuesday,   ask the same questions, put back to sleep. and 
again she has no idea. if the coin was heads,   she's woken up on monday only, asked questions, 
perhaps with the same amnesia inducing drugs.  sleeping beauty is put to sleep, we flip 
a coin. if it's tails we wake her up on   monday, ask her some questions, put her back 
to sleep. she doesn't know it was monday, she   doesn't know what happened to the coin, she 
has no idea when she wakes up what's going on.   put back to sleep with no memory of 
that incident. she's woken up on tuesday,   same thing, ask questions, put back to sleep; 
has no idea it's tuesday or what's happened.  or if it was heads we just wake her up the once 
and then ask her the questions, put her back to   sleep, nothing happens on the tuesday; and in both 
cases the experiment ends on wednesday. so she's   woken up and she's free. and she knows all of this 
before the experiment begins, so she is aware that   she may be woken up twice or once depending on 
the outcome of the flip of that coin. 
- (brady: tell you) (what, as a recent father, the idea of sleeping from 
sunday till wednesday sounds lovely)
- okay sleeping   brady, not sleeping beauty. 
- (anyway, okay, okay. on wednesday she's woken up)
- experiment ends. now, when i say here ask questions, there's a key 
question that we're going to ask sleeping   beauty. and the question is we're going to ask 
her, what does she believe is the likelihood or   the chance or the probability that the coin 
was a head? on the situation she is in at that   moment of having been woken up. so sleeping beauty 
has woken up on a monday or a tuesday, she has no   idea, she has nothing that can help her figure 
out which day it is, there's no secret clock or   calendar, she has no idea. she's just woken up and 
asked, what do you think the probability was that   we got a head on that coin? and of course the idea 
being she could have been woken up on a monday and   it could be the first of the tails wake ups. it 
could be the tuesday which means it would have   had to be tails or it could be the monday but it 
could have been the only wake up on the monday.   but because her memory is wiped after each wake up 
she doesn't know if it's once or twice or anything.  so that's the question, what's the probability 
that the coin was a head? now there are two   both well-supported trains of thought as to 
what the answer to this question is - and i'm   sure everyone watching has their own opinion 
right now of what they think the probability is. (well i'll try and figure it out. she's asked the 
question either- is she asked the question when she)   (wakes up as well?) 
- no not at the end. no no no no that's just-
- (okay so she's asked the)   (question either two or three times? no, she's 
asked the question either one or two times?)
- yes (so) (i reckon...oh let me think for a 
second. two thirds of the time) (it was a- i was going to say two-thirds 
of the time it was a tail. but she's)   (asked the question. so she's asked 
the question twice on monday)   (and she's asked the question once on a tuesday; but 
she's asked the question less often on a tuesday.) (so- i don't know. what was the 
probability that the coin was a head?)  (oh,50/50?) 
- well valid answer right? option one, 
it's called the halfer approach to the problem,   is literally i flipped a coin on sunday 
who cares when sleeping beauty was woken   up? i flipped a fair coin, it's a 50/50 chance, 
the probability of it being a head is a half.   because if i flip a coin right now it's a half and 
the coin was flipped before she was woken up. she   doesn't learn any new information by being woken 
up so she just says, okay i've learned nothing   new, i can't apply my bayes theorem conditional 
probability of updating your hypothesis with new   information; she hasn't learned anything new.
- (monty hall hasn't told her anything she didn't know) - exactly! but   sleeping beauty has no new information because of 
this sort of waking up and not knowing anything   and the amnesia effects of the drugs. so she has 
no new information; therefore it's the same as   the probability always was: it's a half. that is the 
argument for the halfers in this problem. there is   another potential answer and that is that it's 
a probability of one-third - the thirder approach.   so sleeping beauty does not know what day she has 
woken up. suppose we are sleeping beauty and we can   say, okay well let's assume it was a tails, what 
can i learn in that particular situation? now if   we got a tails what does that tell us? that tells 
us we are going to be woken up twice. therefore   when we are woken up and asked this question, 
having assumed that it was the tails in our   own head, we are like okay this could be either 
monday or tuesday and they are equally likely,   there's nothing to distinguish between those cases. 
so we can say the probability of it being a monday,   given it was tails because we assumed it was tails, 
is therefore equal to the probability of it being   a tuesday - again given i assumed it was a tail. 
it's equally likely it could be in one of these   two situations. now we have law of conditional 
probability tells us the probability of a given   b is the probability of a intersect b divided by 
the probability of b. so we can apply this here and   say, so this one is the probability of monday and 
tails divided by the probability of being tails;  and this one is the probability of tuesday and 
tails divided by the probability of being tails.   these two are equal so it doesn't matter what's on 
the bottom, multiply through. having assumed it was   tails, our conclusion we can draw is that these two 
things are equal because they're all on the same   side of the equation. so we can say the probability 
of monday and tails is equal to the probability   of tuesday and tails. okay, now that was assuming 
that it was tails. what if we instead assume it is   monday. sleeping beauty wakes up, has no idea what's 
going on, so she's like all right well let's just   assume it's a monday - what can i learn about that 
situation given i'm assuming it's a monday? same   kind of idea: we could be either this one, the first 
wake up for tails, or the only wake up for heads. so we've assumed it's a monday so that means the 
probability of it being a tails given it's monday,   this case, indistinguishable from this case. 
the probability of it being a heads given   we know it's monday - or we've assumed that it's 
monday. same thing, conditional probability law,   tails of monday, well that's the probability of 
tails and monday divided by probability of being   monday. this one is the probability of heads and 
monday divided by probability of monday. these two   are equal, they both have the same denominator 
so we ignore it, so therefore the probability of   tails and monday equals the probability of heads 
and monday. now we have this equation and we have   this equation. so we've got monday and tails; tails 
and monday, they're the same thing. in both cases   it's a monday and tails is flipped. so this one's 
equal to tuesday and tails and same thing is also   equal to heads on monday. so what we've done here 
is actually shown that these are like equal, all   three things are the same, and all three of them 
are exactly case 1, case 2, and case 3 of   our original list. we made some assumptions, did 
some conditional probability, and it allowed us   to arrive at the conclusion that all three of 
our situations actually are equally likely to   occur. the total probability has to be 1.
these are the three possible events, they   are all equally likely, their total probability 
has to be 1 - it's the law of total probability.   the only solution then is that each individual 
event has a probability of one-third,   because they're all equally 
likely and there's three of them.   so we say okay, so the probability 
is a third for each situation. so it's it's a probability of a third that it's a 
monday and tails was flipped. the probability is a   third that's it's a tuesday with tails flipped, 
and probably a third that it was a monday   with heads flipped. so what's the probability 
that the coin was heads? one in three. one of the   three situations has a head; they're all equally 
likely, so the probability of the coin was a head   is a third - and that is the thirder argument.
- (no but there's a change. i think there's a slight change) (there just the last minute. saying those three 
things are equally likely is not say- it's not)   (the same as saying: is it likely the coin was a 
tail or a head? because once the the coin is flipped)   (a whole- whole different paths are 
opened up, and different things are)   (done. and it's those paths and things you're 
doing the probability of, not the coin itself.)  (so we're we're not- we're asking sleeping beauty 
not was it a head or a tail but which sort of) (mashup combination of things that happened 
is playing out at the moment?)
- this is- okay i-   both of these are valid arguments. both of 
these have supporting mathematical statements   using bayesian statistics, using conditional 
probability; you can argue for both of them   in different ways. both of them 
are accepted by mathematicians,    that is why it's a paradox. because it feels like- 
you you can argue successfully for either of   them and you can argue against either of them. now 
there is an interesting extension which might help   to convince you at least brady, about the one-third 
situation. and that's called the rip van winkle   extension to the problem. if we get a head sleeping 
beauty is woken up once - same rules, same experiment,  but just once. if we flip and get a tail sleeping 
beauty will be woken up 999 consecutive times. it   is the same setup as we had but instead of being 
once for heads and twice for tails it's now 999   times, big old sleep; hence the name rip van winkle. 
now if you follow through the thirder argument;   or even if you just think about it if you're in 
the position of sleeping beauty: if i wake up as   sleeping beauty there are 1,000 potential events 
or 1,000 potential situations i could be in. and   in only one of those possible situations did a head 
come up on that coin. so if i'm a betting princess   i am definitely saying that i've got to go with tails.
- (here's- here's the thing though then, that's)   (what i mean about my paths. when you wake her 
up you're not asking her: was it a head or a)   (tail? you're asking her: are you on the path that 
resulted from a head or are you on the path that)   (resulted from a tail? because yes of course it's 
more likely she's on the path that resulted from)   (a tail because she gets woken up multiple times. 
like if i said to her, every time you're asked the)  (question, if you answer it correctly i'm going to 
put a thousand dollars in your bank account)
- yeah,   you're gonna say tails.
- (you will say tails because you're woken up twice with tails and you're woken up once for heads.) (so i agree if the question is which pathway 
are you on? yes i'm on the tails pathway. but if you)   (ask, when that coin was tossed on sunday while 
you were asleep, was it a head or a tail? well-)   but does that not then come back to the question 
of- so you could say, which path are you on? and   as you're saying, it's like well clearly i am on 
the tails path. so then could i not then say, okay   so you're saying it was much more likely that i 
got a tails on that coin? i.e the probability that   coin was a tails-
- (no. it's more likely i'm on the 
path that resulted from the tail, yeah yeah) and i think- i'm really glad you picked up on this 
because that is kind of the the philosophy   extension to this problem. so i- researching this, 
like i first heard about this from one of my students   in fact and i just thought it was such a brilliant 
niche little problem that just really gets you   thinking. and again both solutions are actually 
equally credible from a mathematics standpoint,   but i think it does come down to the sort of like 
interpretation of what is it you are actually   asking sleeping beauty. the original problem was 
written up in april 2000 by elga, e-l-g-a. and i think   there the original statement of the problem was, 
you ask sleeping beauty what is your credence that   the coin was a head or like- almost like 
what's your strength in belief? so it kind of-   you know, maybe by me using the word probability 
is- but that's kind of how it's interpreted in a   mathematical way. but i think the resolution of 
the paradox does come from that way of thinking   about what are we really asking sleeping 
beauty rather than what is the probability   that the coin was a heads or a tails. 
- (yeah. sleeping beauty would be correct more often if she said tails.) exactly. but-
- (but she's given more chances to 
be correct if it's a tails as well. like the whole) (game is rigged that way. yeah yeah okay.)
- so it feels as though here you would have probability   of being a head, you would say well only one in a 
thousand events are going to be heads so i have   like very very small belief in heads. so i'm saying 
i think there was a one in one thousand chance   that the coin was a head even though it was a fair 
coin, which is just quite hard to- paradox    this episode was brought to you by jane street, people 
who love puzzles and paradoxes even more than we   do. jane street's a global research-based trading 
firm and they're looking for bright, curious people   to join their teams around the world. a great way 
to start could be one of their internship programs.   check out this page on their website; there are videos 
and podcasts explaining more about it. there are   all sorts of opportunities available in all sorts 
of places. typically an internship can last maybe   10 to 12 weeks? and you don't have to be from a 
financial background to do this; in fact you could   be from any background. jane street support 
numberphile because they love our curious nature   and they think the sort of people who watch these 
videos could be the right fit for them. i'll put a   link in the video description so you can check out 
more about their internships, jobs, everything else. super exciting, we think they're going 
to be really common - they're not. the next   one is at 16,470. so i'm definitely not writing out 16,000 digits of pi, that that's that's a job for 
the viewer. and then after that we then jump up   to 44,899. you've accelerated, your speed has 
changed with respect to time or you decrease   your speed, you've decelerated. so that's what 
the first term is going to describe and   then we also need the mass. you think of 
mass in this situation to be a density