(jazz music) - is that a mac in your pants or are you just happy to see me? we've got a total of seven macbooks here and some are bigger than the others, but does a bigger laptop
always mean more performance? apple's m1 pro and m1 max socs have already started their stuff for us in the 14 inch form factor. now it's time to see the 16 inch. you'd be surprised how much difference two inches can make. just like our sponsor, ifixit. still haven't bought something for the diy or a fixer in your life? ifixit has a toolkit to
help you tackle any job and you can still get free shipping and other great discounts
for the holiday season. learn more at the end of the video. (upbeat music) from the outside, the 16 inch macbook pro is perhaps disappointingly, an enlarged version of the 14 inch. there's no proportional
in beginning of io, which is a bummer if you
were hoping to be able to ditch the type c hubs and type c to a adapters that you have. even worse, we tried those
type c to hdmi 2.1 adapters, 4k 60 with hdr is the best
you're going to get out of these for the time being. so you're effectively limited
to hdmi 2.0 on all ports, even on the 16 inch models. it's kinda lame, but it's been suggested that it's an internal bandwidth limitation. from here, though it's
all positive or neutral. starting with the notch. where, because it's no larger than the smaller models,
the 16 inch display actually makes it practically disappear when you're focused on content. there's also far less opportunity for egregiously large menus, like the davinci resolves to be cut off, thanks
to the larger menu bar. which makes this an appealing choice for the mac using professional. finally, the keyboard is no larger, which is something apple has always done as a matter of preference. but we gain by keeping that
smaller keyboard form factor is a much larger track
pad and bigger speakers. which do in fact, sound a bit better. (upbeat music) there is a little more and tighter base, which is saying something considering how good the 14 inch already sounds. the obvious reason to buy the
16 inch mac book of course is the larger version
of the pro display xdr. it's got the same pixel density and brightness as the smaller model and looking at them side by side, it looks like apple match
the panels extremely well in other areas like
color and brightness too. that should make anyone looking into the 14 inch models
breathe a sigh of relief, considering in the past smaller models, haven't always been
given the same pedigree. (upbeat music) when it comes to the
vastness of the screen. the 16 inch reminds me
of how it felt to sit in front of a 17 inch macbook back when they still existed. i don't have one of those
to show you right now, but here's my old 15.4
inch for comparison. the shrunken bezels really
do help make it feel that much bigger. and i don't miss my desktop monitor nearly as much as i did with this. just like i don't miss my
old jacket after getting the new swacket from lttstore.com flexible and thick, like
i one day hope to be. but there's one more major difference between the new 14 and 16 inch models that we need to talk about. if you pop the hood, wow, they look shockingly similar don't they. almost like they took the 14 inch and just resize it in photoshop. and that means the cooler is proportionately much larger and it sits inside all
that extra thermal mass offered by the bigger chassis. this might just be the killer
feature for the 16 inch. assuming of course we
hit thermal bottlenecks on our 14 inch testing. as usual, let's start with cinebench where it's obvious we haven't been thermally constrained up until now. m1 pro and m1 max in both form factors share the same cpu cores after all. and we get further
confirmation with geekbench and same deal with blender 2 where we've got some minor variation, but not much else. the cpu cores on their own are simply not enough to
saturate the 14 inch cooler. so if your workloads are
only tasked to the cpu, you may not see a performance advantage with the 16 inch over the 14. it's when we move on to the gpu testing, that things get interesting. final cut pro sees the m1 max picking up an extra simultaneous prores stream or two over the 14 inch variance, before dropping any frames, which hints that the extra gpu horsepower is in fact being utilized here. davinci resolves render
time gives us a shocker. the high end 16 inch m1 max wraps up over a minute faster than the 14 and the low end m1 max is even faster than the high end 14. so the max gpu cores her in fact enough to saturate the 14 inch chassis. strangely the 16 inch m1
pro has the opposite result. it runs slower than the 14 inch, not just in the export, but in the timeline,
losing a frame per second. what appears to be happening here is that because apple is only spinning up the fans once the chassis itself
reaches a certain temperature, by the time the larger
machine has heated up enough to activate the fans, the soc temperature is already so high that it has to
throttle it's performance. we don't see this on m1 max, because they spin up the fans much sooner. cinema4d redshift is your
best bet for 3d modeling and rendering on apple silicon right now, thanks to its support
for apple's metal api. but unfortunately it
doesn't seem to hit the soc quite as hard as the previous test. and so we see less difference
between the two sizes. it seems like redshift simply
needs more optimization. if it were fully utilizing the gpu, it should be saturating the cooler and throttling on the 14 inch, like we saw with resolve. geekbench is more of the same with a mild increase in open cl, but roughly run to run variants in metal. again, if we're fully utilizing the gpu, we should see some throttling
with this fan profile, even though this is a short benchmark. whoa, hey, future anthony here, capital f capital a. remember how i said
cinema4d was your best bet for 3d rendering. turns out i lied. the blender 3.1 alpha just got updated with metal rendering support on apple silicon in monterey. i couldn't let this video go up without testing that out, could i? the m1 is completely
destroyed by the m1 pro and m1 max, which we might expect from doubling the number
of gpu cores, twice, but there's an anomaly, the 1016 m1 pro consistently
runs a little slower than the eight and 14 core model. this is probably down to the alpha status of the new renderer, so take with salt as needed. overall, this is a great showing until we introduced the zephyrus m16. in the bmw render its cuda
result is 16 seconds faster. while the optics render
runs twice, again as fast, that laptop costs less than $2,000. but with blender, we have one more trick up
our sleeves, gooseberry. this test requires 12
gigabytes of ram to run and this is where apple silicon shines. thanks to its unified memory layout. the zephyrus in both cuda and optics modes is faster than the m1 pro models, but only just m1 max transit easily with over a six minute lead on the 32 core models. finally, we found something apple's gpu is seriously good at without needing any extra
hardware like the decoding and encoding blocks. we'll take these numbers
with some salt though. the implementation is very early and the devs say that
performance optimizations are forthcoming. okay, back to the video. we get a better look at this when we look at gaming where the 16 inch m1 max managed a higher frame rate than
the zephyrus m16 rtx 3060. a first for apple silicon,
in all of our testing. that's a good 15 fps higher than the 14 inch model can handle to. suggesting that once again, the max gpu is more than capable of overwhelming the 14's cooler, although the pro is well
within the capabilities of its cooler and sees no improvement between the two sizes. cs go does see a small
but measurable improvement on the higher end m1 max as well, suggesting that the little
bit of extra horsepower coupled with the little bit of extra thermal headroom, lets it squeeze that little
bit of extra speed out of an otherwise rosetta bottleneck title. as messy as all this is mac gaming isn't as crazy as you might think. so get subscribed
because we've got a video on why coming soon. but what if we sidestepped rosetta and used an apple silicon native app. the dolphin emulator running super mario sunshine fits the bill, but we're still not hitting
the cooler that hard, which suggests that
there's another bottleneck probably in the translation from the older open gl api, to apple's metal api. we'd expect it to hit
both the cpu and gpu hard because we're running the ambulator without a frame rate cap, but they're not. so we see little difference between the sizes again. which brings us to the overarching theme of this testing, thermals. we fired up redshift and
blenders simultaneously for this one and while redshift isn't fully utilizing the gpu, it should be more than enough to bring it up the temperature. sure enough, even our low
end m1 pro 14 choked here. maintaining the high
nineties on the cpu core isn't peaking at 100
degrees throughout the run. apple as always, seems to
favor throttling instead of ramping the fans up. even at that 100 degree mark, the fan speed was merely 50% . fun fact, all of the m1 pro
models choked hard enough to outright crash the
redshift render every time. and in one case it froze
the machine entirely with a black screen. given the thermal results i don't think that it's
overheating necessarily. perhaps there's a memory bandwidth issue causing contention on the lower end chips, or maybe there's a power delivery issue. none of the m1 max models
exhibited this behavior so make of that what you will. the top end 14 inch m1 max model cpu cores were routinely allowed to hit 100 degrees while the redshift rendering
performance suffered greatly. the fans are a little more
aggressive than m1 pro at around 75% at peak, but that's a small comfort when you're still leaving
performance on the table. the 16 inch models on the other hand, while performed admirably. the top end, soc may have
hit 100 degrees a lot, but the fans barely hit 50%. and the redshift render
only took about 10% longer than when we were running it on its own. suggesting that it's only being mildly throttled, less so than the 14 inch m1 max. interestingly, the gpu
clusters weren't allowed to hit the 90 degree mark on any of our macbooks in this test. which hints that apple's
thermal management is aiming for somewhere around 90 degrees as the upper limit for the soc itself. taken together, this suggests that with the fans cranked up, the 16 inch would actually
be totally capable of handling combined load like this, without batting an eye. sadly, this isn't the default behavior, but you can force it to max
speed using a third-party program like tg pro. surface temperatures were
also significantly lower on all of our 16 inch models. although the exhaust temperatures were still in the 50's. crucially, the hotspot
is well under 50 degrees on the highest end 16 inch. and the underside is just a hair over 40 at its hottest, which means that even if
you're stressing the machine, you're not going to be
burning your pants off if it's in your lap. apple's done a fantastic job
managing skin temperature on this generation of macbooks. and again, if there were
a little more aggressive with the fan, they can have their cake and eat it too. the noise isn't even that bad imo. at a $200 premium over
a similarly equipped 14 inch macbook pro, the 16 inch models represent
a reasonable option if you value screen real estate. but as we've seen the thermal constraints of the 14 inch chassis,
rarely come into play until you upgrade to the m1 max. so choosing which size you get for an m1 pro, mostly
comes down to form factor, not performance. in fact, if you're okay trading storage for screen size, the base model 16 inch is the same price as
the 14 for the same soc. however, i don't think
i could recommend less than one terabyte of storage for a professional class machine. even over the course of our benchmarking for these videos, we ended up running out of storage. your mileage may of course vary. apples engineers are good at their jobs. since abandoning the pursuit of ever thinner designs, they pulled off a solid chassis with good cooling and paired it with next level battery life
thanks to apple silicon. (upbeat music) while we're still in the transition phase of the rollout, it's almost complete. and there's reason to be
optimistic about apple silicon. maybe not quite as optimistic as apple is, not yet anyway, but optimistic nonetheless. it's expensive for what you're getting that much is clear. only in video editing, does
apple silicon truly shine the way apple claims it does and far cheaper pc notebooks
currently outperforming in other tasks like 3d
modeling and gaming. but the entire m1 pro and max lineup has a unique combination
of performance efficiency and endurance rolled into a form factor that's pleasing to use
with fewer compromises than we're used to. you're also getting a display that's unmatched in the pc world, speakers that are legitimately some of the best in the industry and a tightly integrated ecosystem that speaks to many. it's really a combination that no one else is in a position to match right now. and let's be honest, if any of that is a deal-maker for you as it is for me, then you're probably already eyeing one of these new macbooks. and if anything, remotely resembling the apple logo makes
you recoil in disgust, you're probably looking for reasons to hate it instead. i'm simply not going to change your mind, but regardless of what your
feelings about them are, apple is moving in the right direction. and this is a major step towards what could be a brighter
future for the industry. after all, wherever apple goes, the pc surely follows. just like you're already at this segue to our sponsor ifixit. thanks to ifixit for
sponsoring today's video. ifixit as the perfect
gifts for the tech hobbyist or professional in your life. their protect tool kit
is a great general kit to fix almost anything in your house. i reach for one all the time. it's got 64 bits and ifixit most popular opening tools all rolled up into one package, including suction cups, spongers, anti-static wrist straps, and more all covered by
ifixit lifetime warranty. it's the gift that keeps on giving because you can save time and money by repairing your own electronics using ifixit step-by-step guides. ifixit also still has great holiday sales for a limited time. check out their new toolkit bundles and get 20% off all laptop batteries. plus you can get free shipping on orders over $50 with code, foryou. that is f-o-r-y-o-u at checkout. give the gift of repair this holiday season @ifixit.com/ltt. thanks for watching guys. go check out our initial review of the 14 inch m1 pro macbooks if you haven't already, so you can get more context
for today's 16 review.