in july of 2022, the texas department 
of transportation issued an emergency   suspension of work on the half-finished harbor 
bridge project in corpus christi, citing serious   design flaws that could cause the main span to 
collapse if construction continues. the bridge   is a high-profile project and, when constructed, 
might briefly be the longest cable-stayed bridge   in north america. it's just down the road from 
me, and i've been looking forward to seeing it   finished for years. but, it's actually not the 
first time this billion dollar project has been   put on hold. in a rare move, txdot released 
not only their letters to the bridge developer,   publicly castigating the engineer and contractor, 
but also all the engineering reports with the   details of the alleged design flaws. it's a 
situation you never want to see, especially when   it's your tax dollars paying for the fight. but it 
is an intriguing look into the unique challenges   in the design and construction of megaprojects. 
let's take a look at the fascinating engineering   behind this colossal bridge and walk through the 
documents released by txdot to see whether the   design flaws might kill the project altogether. 
i'm grady and this is practical engineering.   in today's episode, we're talking about the new 
harbor bridge project in corpus christi, texas. by the way, my new book comes out november 
1st. stay tuned to the end for a sneak preview. corpus christi is a medium-sized city 
located on the gulf coast of south texas.   but even though the city is well down the list 
of the largest metropolitan areas in the state,   it has one of the fastest growing cargo 
ports in the entire united states. the port   of corpus christi is now the third 
largest in the country by tonnage,   due primarily to the enormous exports of crude 
oil and liquefied natural gas. but there are a   couple of limitations to the port that are 
constraining its continued growth. one is   the depth and width of the ship channel which 
is currently in the process of being deepened   and widened. dredging soil from the bottom of a 
harbor is an engineering marvel in its own right,   but we'll save that for another video. the second 
major limitation on the port is the harbor bridge. built in 1959, this bridge carries us highway 
181 over the corpus christi ship channel,   connecting downtown to the north 
shore area. when it was constructed,   the harbor bridge was the largest project ever to 
be constructed by the texas highway department,   later known as txdot. it was the pinnacle of 
bridge engineering and construction for the time,   allowing the army corps of engineers to widen the 
channel below so that the newest supertanker ships   of the time could enter the port. the harbor 
bridge fueled a new wave of economic growth in   the city, and it's still an impressive structure 
to behold... if you don't look too closely. now,   more than 60 years later, the bridge 
is a relic of past engineering and   past needs. the harbor bridge has endured 
a tough life above the salty gulf coast,   and the cost to keep corrosion from the bay 
at bay has increased substantially year by   year. the bridge also lacks pedestrian 
and bicycle access, meaning the only way   across the ship channel is in a watercraft or 
a motor vehicle (which is not ideal). finally,   the bridge is a bottleneck on the size of ships 
that can access the port, keeping them from   entering or exiting fully-loaded and creating an 
obstacle to commerce within corpus christi. so,   in 2011 (over a decade ago, now), the planning 
process began for a taller and wider structure. the new harbor bridge project includes 
six-and-a-half miles (or about ten kilometers)   of new bridge and roadway that will replace 
the existing harbor bridge over the corpus   christi ship channel. and here's a look at how 
the two structures compare. the new bridge will   allow larger ships into the port with its 
205 feet (or 62 meters) of clearance above   the water. the bridge is being built just a short 
distance inland from the existing harbor bridge,   which is a good thing for us because the port 
authority wouldn't give us permission to cross   the old bridge with a drone. it will eventually be 
demolished at the end of construction. the project   also requires lots of roadway reconfigurations in 
downtown corpus christi that will connect the new   bridge to the existing highway. the crown 
jewel will be the cable-stayed main span,   supported by two impressive pylons on either side 
of the ship canal across 1,661 feet or 506 meters.   the bridge will feature 3 lanes of traffic each 
way plus a bicycle and pedestrian shared use path   with a belvedere midspan that will give intrepid 
ramblers an impressive view of corpus christi bay. the project was procured as a design-build 
contract awarded to a joint venture between   dragados usa and flatiron construction, two 
massive construction companies, with a huge   group of subcontractors and engineers to support 
the project. design-build (or db for those in the   industry) really just means that the folks who 
design it and the folks who build it are on the   same team and work (hopefully) in collaboration to 
deliver the final product. that's a good thing in   a lot of ways, and design-build contracts on large 
projects often end up moving faster and being   less expensive than similar jobs that follow the 
traditional design-bid-build model where the owner   hires an engineer to develop designs and then 
bids the designs out to hire a separate qualified   contractor. when an engineer and contractor 
work together to solve problems collaboratively,   you often end up with innovative approaches and 
project efficiencies that wouldn't be possible   otherwise. you also don't have to wait for all 
the engineering to be finished before starting   construction on the parts that are ready, so the 
two phases can overlap somewhat. however, as we'll   see, db contracts come with some challenges too. 
when the engineer and contractor are in cahoots   (legally speaking), the owner of the project 
is no longer in the middle, and so has less   control over some of the major decisions. also, 
db contracts force the engineer and contractor   to make big decisions about the project 
very early in the design process, sometimes   before they've even won the job, which reduces the 
flexibility for changes as the project matures. construction on the new harbor 
bridge project started in 2016   with an original completion date of 2020. but, another bridge halfway across the country 
would soon throw the project into disarray.   in march of 2018, a pedestrian bridge at florida 
international university in miami collapsed during   construction, killing six people and injuring 
ten more. after an extensive investigation,   the national transportation safety board put 
most of the blame for the bridge collapse on   a miscalculation by the engineer, figg, 
the same engineer hired by flatiron and   dragados to design the new harbor bridge 
project in texas. i should note that figg   disputes the ntsb's assessment and has 
released their own independent analysis   pinning the blame for the incident on 
improper construction. nevertheless,   the fiu collapse led txdot to consider whether 
figg was the right engineer for the job. in november of 2019, they asked the db 
contractor to suspend design of the bridge so   they could review the ntsb findings and conduct 
a safety review. and only a few months later,   txdot issued a statement that they had 
requested their contractor to remove and   replace figg bridge engineers from the design of 
the main span bridge. that meant a new engineering   firm would have to review the figg designs, 
recertify all the engineering and calculations,   and take responsibility for the project as 
the engineer of record. later that year,   figg would be fired from another cable-stayed 
bridge project in texas, and in 2021 they were   debarred by the federal highway administration 
from bidding on any projects until 2029. it took   about six months for the new harbor bridge db 
contractor to procure a new engineer for the   main span. the contractor said it expected 
no major changes to the existing design. construction on the project forged ahead through 
most of this shakeup with steady progress on both   of the approach bridges that lead to the main 
span. these are impressive structures themselves   with huge columns supporting each span above. 
the bridge superstructure consists of two rows   of segmental box girders, massive elements that 
are precast from concrete at a site not far from   the bridge. for each approach, these segments are 
lifted and held in place between the columns using   an enormous self-propelled gantry crane. once 
all the segments within a span are in place,   steel cables called tendons are run through 
sleeves cast into the concrete and stressed   using powerful hydraulic jacks. when the 
post-tensioned tendons are locked off,   the span is then self-supporting and the crane 
can be moved to the next set of columns. this   segmental construction is an extremely efficient 
way to build bridges. it's used all over the world   today, but it actually got its start right here in 
corpus christi. the jfk memorial causeway bridge   was replaced in 1973 to connect corpus christi to 
north padre island over the laguna madre. it was   the first precast segmental bridge constructed 
in the us. and if you're curious, yes qualified   personnel can get inside the box girders. it's a 
convenient way to inspect the structural members   to make sure the bridge is performing well over 
the long term. the harbor bridge project will   include locked entryways to the box girders 
and even lights and power outlets within. work on the main span bridge didn't resume until 
august of 2021, nearly 2 years after txdot first   suspended the design of this part of the project. 
and by the end of 2021, both pylons were starting   to take shape above the ground. early this year, 
the contractor mobilized two colossal crawler   cranes to join the tower cranes already set up 
at both the main span pylons. these crawlers   were used to lift the table segments where the 
bridge superstructure connects to the approaches.   the next step in construction is to begin 
lifting the precast box girder sections   into place while crews continue building the 
pylons upward toward their final height. rather   than doing the entire span at once, these 
segments will be lifted into place using   a balanced cantilever method, where each one is 
connected to the bridge from the pylon outward. but, it probably won't happen anytime soon 
after txdot suspended construction on the   main span in july and has continued a very 
public feud with the contractor since then   that is far from resolved. during the shakeup 
with figg, txdot hired their own bridge engineer   to review the designs and inform their decision 
that ultimately ended with figg fired from the   project. when the db contractor hired a new 
engineer to recertify the bridge designs,   txdot kept their independent engineer to review 
the new designs. unfortunately, many of the flaws   identified in the figg design persisted into the 
current design of the bridge. in april of 2022,   txdot issued the contractor a notice 
of nonconforming work. this is a legal   document in a construction project used to let a 
contractor know that something they built doesn't   comply with the terms of the contract. and when 
that happens, it is the contractors job to fix   the nonconforming work at their own cost. the 
notice included the entire independent review   report and a summary table of 23 issues that 
txdot said reflected breaches of the contract,   and it required their contractor to submit 
a schedule detailing the plan to correct the   nonconforming work. but they didn't provide that 
schedule, or at least not to txdot's standards.   so, in july, txdot sent another letter enacting a 
clause in the contract that lets them immediately   suspend work in an emergency situation that 
could cause danger to people or property,   citing five serious issues with design of 
the main span. so let's take a look at them. the first two of the alleged flaws are related 
to the capacity of the foundation system that   supports each of the two pylons. each tower 
sits on top of an enormous concrete slab or   cap that is the area of two basketball courts and 
18 feet or 5-and-a-half meters thick. below that   slab are drilled shaft piles, each one about 
10 feet or 3 meters in diameter and 210 feet   or 64 meters deep. the most critical loads 
on the pylons are high winds that push the   bridge and towers horizontally. you might not 
think that wind is powerful enough to affect   a structure of this size, but don't forget 
that corpus christ is situated on the gulf   coast and regularly subject to hurricane force 
winds. the independent reviewer estimated that,   under some loading conditions, many of the piles 
holding a single tower would be subject to demands   of more than 20% of their capacity. in other 
words, they would fail. the primary design   error identified in the analysis was that the 
original engineer had assumed that the pile cap,   that concrete slab between the tower and the 
piles, was perfectly rigid in the calculations. all of engineering involves making simplifying 
assumptions during the design process. structures   are complicated, soils are variable, loading 
conditions are numerous. so, to make the process   simpler, we neglect factors that aren't essential 
to the design. and with a pile cap that is greater   in depth than most single story buildings, you 
might think it's safe to assume that the concrete   isn't going to flex much. but, we're talking about 
extreme loads. when you take into account the   flexibility of the pile cap, you find out that 
the stresses from the pylon aren't distributed   to each pile evenly. instead, some become 
overloaded, and you end up with a foundation   that the design reviewer delicately labeled as 
"exceedingly deficient to resist design loadings." the next critical design problem identified 
is related to the delta frame structures that   transfer the weight of the bridge's superstructure 
into each cable stay. these delta frames connect   to the box girders below the bridge deck using 
post-tensioned tendons. but, these tendons can't   be used to resist shear forces, those sliding 
forces between the girders and delta frames.   for those forces, according to the code, you 
need conventional steel reinforcement through   this interface. without it, a crack could 
develop, and the interface could shear apart. the fourth issue identified is related to 
the bearings that transfer the weight of   the bridge deck near each pylon. the independent 
reviewer found that, under some load conditions,   the superstructure could lift up rather than 
pushing down on the tower. that would not   only cause issues with the bearings themselves, 
which need to be able to resist movement in some   directions while allowing movement in others. 
it would also cause loads to redistribute,   reducing the stiffness of the bridge that 
depends on a rigid connection to each tower. the final issue identified, and the most 
urgent, is related to the loads during   construction of the bridge. construction is 
a vulnerable time for a bridge like this,   especially before the deck is connected 
between the pylons and the first piers of   the approaches. the contractor is planning to 
lift derrick cranes onto the bridge deck that   will be used to hoist the girder segments into 
place and attach them to each cable stay. txdot   and their independent reviewer allege that the 
bridge isn't strong enough to withstand these   forces during construction and will need 
additional support or more reinforcement. for the contractor's part, they have denied that 
there are design issues and issued a statement to   the local paper saying that they were "confident 
in the safety and durability of the bridge as   designed." in their letter to txdot, they cite 
their disagreements with the conclusions of the   independent design reviewer and accuse txdot 
of holding back the results of the review while   allowing them to continue with construction and 
ignoring attempts to resolve the differences.   because of txdot's directive to suspend the work, 
they have already started demobilizing at the   main span, reassigning crews, and reallocating 
resources. in august, txdot sent another letter   notifying the contractor of a default in the 
contract and giving them 15 days to respond. it's hard to overstate the disruption of 
suspending work in this way. construction projects   of this scale are among the most complicated and 
interdependent things that humans do. they don't   just start and stop on a dime, and these legal 
actions will have implications for thousands of   people working on the new harbor bridge project. 
just the daily rental fees of those two crawler   cranes alone is probably in the tens of thousands 
of dollars per day. add up all the equipment and   labor on a job this size, and you can see that 
the stakes are incredibly high when interrupting   an operation like this. it's never a good sign 
when the insurance company is cc'ed on the letter. if the bridge design is truly flawed (and 
clearly txdot thinks that it is since they   are sharing the evidence publicly), it's a 
good thing that they stopped the work so the   issues can be addressed before they turn into a 
dangerous situation for the public. but it also   begs the question of why these concerns were 
handled in a way that let the contractor keep   working even when txdot knew there were issues. 
megaprojects like this are immensely complex,   and their design and construction rarely goes 
off without at least a few complications.   there just isn't as much precedent for 
the engineering or construction. but,   we have processes in place to account for 
bumps in the road (and even bumps in the bridge   deck). those processes include thorough quality 
control on designs before construction starts. so who's at fault here? is it the db 
contractor for designing a bridge,   then recertifying that design with a completely 
new engineering team, that apparently had a   number of serious flaws? or is it txdot for 
failing to catch the alleged errors (or at   least failing to stop the work) until the 
very last minute after hundreds of millions   of taxpayer dollars have already been spent on 
construction that may now have to be torn down   and rebuilt? the simple answer is probably both, 
but it's a question that is far from settled,   and the battle is sure to be dramatic for those 
who follow infrastructure, if not discouraging   for those who pay taxes. the design issues 
are serious, but they're not insurmountable,   and i think it's highly unlikely that txdot 
won't see the project to completion in one   way or another. some work may have to be replaced 
while other parts of the project may be fine after   retrofits. the best case scenario for everyone 
involved is for txdot to repair their relationship   with their contractor and get the designs fixed 
instead of firing them and bringing on someone   new. in the industry, they call that stepping 
into a dead man's shoes, and there won't be many   companies jumping for a chance to take over this 
controversial job halfway through construction. two things are for sure (as they almost 
always are in projects of this magnitude):   the bridge is going to cost more than we expected,   and it's going to take longer to build than 
the current estimated completion date in 2024.   there's actually another, much longer, 
cable-stayed bridge racing to finish construction   in the us and canada between detroit, michigan 
and windsor, ontario. barring any major issues,   it is currently scheduled to be complete by the 
end of 2024 and will probably now beat the corpus   christi project. every single person who crosses 
over either one of these bridges, once they're   complete, will do so as an act of trust in the 
engineers who designed them and the agencies   who oversaw the projects. so, i'm thankful that 
txdot is at least being relatively transparent   about what's happening behind the scenes to make 
sure the new harbor bridge is safe when it's   finished. as someone who lives in south texas, 
i'm proud to have this project in my backyard,   and i'm hopeful that these issues can be resolved 
without too much impact to the project's schedule   or cost. the latest headlines make it seem like 
things are headed in that direction. until then,   if you're in corpus christi crossing the 
ship channel, as you drive over the aging   but still striking (and still standing) old 
harbor bridge, you'll have a really nice view   of an impressive construction site and what was 
almost the nation's longest cable-stayed bridge. and if you want to learn more about the various 
kinds of bridges we use to cross waterways or how   to spot and identify the most interesting aspects 
of tunnels, dams, sewers, and the power grid, i   have the book for you. i mean... i actually have it 
now. my new book, engineering in plain sight comes   out this november. but, i got an early copy in the 
mail just a few days ago, and i couldn't be more   proud of how it came out. engineering in plain 
sight is a field guide to the constructed world   full of colorful illustrations of all the things 
you might not notice in your built environment.   when i was studying engineering in school, every 
class was like a lamp turning on to illuminate   some innocuous part of my surroundings that i 
had never even paid attention to. engineering   in plain sight is my way to share that joy and 
help you further your journey as an enthusiastic   beholder of the constructed environment. it's 
basically 50 new practical engineering episodes   crammed between two covers. the book is available 
for preorder pretty much anywhere you buy books   and comes out on november 1st. if you want a 
signed copy for yourself or as a gift, i have   them on my website at practical.engineering, and 
all preorders come with an exclusive enamel weir   pin taken from one of the book's illustrations. 
i worked so hard on this project, and i'm so   excited for you to see the final book. thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think.