- in front of me, i have
not the xbox toledo, but the brand new xbox series x. now, of course, we have
spent a lot of time with a functional unit
of this back in february, march seems like a very long time ago, but today i actually get
to spend some up close and personal time with the
brand new xbox console. let's just take a look and see what's inside the box, shall we?. so just like the xbox series s which we've already done an unboxing of, and you can check that out. this is a currently nonfunctional
unit of the series x. so this is much more so for us to get a bit of a size comparison
with the xbox series s. first of all, this is a much
more powerful console, right? i mean, there's no getting
around the fact that the series x has over three times
the graphical horsepower of the series s, and when
you put them side by side, you can really see the difference. so not only is it taller, but
it is significantly thicker. i mean, in fact, i've
actually put it right on top. it's what over double the thickness. when you look at the series
x, this is the console, which is dedicated to being
quote-unquote, the most powerful game console you can buy. and when you look at it
compared to the playstation 5, it is in fact more powerful. now, all three of these consoles. so the xbox series s, the xbox series x, and the playstation 5 have
very similar internals that are all based on
the amd zen 2 cpu cores, eight cores across the board. funnily enough, the
series x is very slightly more powerful on the processor side compared to the series s and ps5, which are roughly equivalent,
but they're all very similar. all three of these next-gen
consoles have ssd standard, one terabyte on the xbox series x, and 500 gigabytes on these series s. but really where you
see the major difference is in the graphic side. so the xbox series x has 12
teraflops of gpu performance, significantly more than the playstation 5. and over three times,
as much as the series s. but in real terms, we shouldn't see a huge performance difference between them as this is aimed at 1440p gaming. and this is aimed at 4k gaming and the playstation 5 i'm
sure will also be firmly in that 4k camp, but you have to consider,
this is a $500 console, which is impressive when
you look at it compared to a lot of high-end gaming pcs. but this little guy is only $300. so when you look at the series s this is much more similar to
something like the xbox one, or specifically the one s, right? so we have a very simple cooling solution. so we have a single fan here. and if you look at the
xbox sort of exploded view, that they released, you
can see that the internals are very simple. and of course, this does lack
any kind of optical drive. so if you're considering
buying an xbox series s you will not be able to
purchase physical media for it. now, potentially at some point, they may offer a usb like
blu ray drive or something, which you could plug in
upfront or around back. but until we see that, i
would very much expect that this is a digital-only console. and when you look at it
compared to the series s, and we know this, especially
from the teardown, this is a much more hardcore console. so of course it has a lot
more graphics to cool, but it also does incorporate that full-size 4k uhd blu ray player, which means that you
can buy physical games with the series x. and you can also, of course,
use it for watching blu rays or whatever it is that you want. now, when you flip these
consoles around to the back, you'll see they're very similar. in fact, they're basically identical, but there are a few major differences. as far as ports go, they
both have a usb a port on the front. you also have two usb a
ports around the back. you have ethernets, which is right here. you have hdmi 2.1. an important thing to
note with the series x and the series s is that
this is an hdmi 2.1 port. what that means is that
you're going to theoretically, still be able to pump out that 4k, 120 hertz signal from both of these. in fact, the series s does
support 120fps gaming. we have a short clip of gears
5 running on the series s. now you have to have maybe
slightly lower expectations for what that's going to look
like compared to series x, and i very much expect
that if you're gonna see a lot, 120fps games,
they're gonna be on x, not s but technically both are capable. so when you get the series
x compared to the series s, one of the things that
really jumps out to me is the actual cooling. so we know for a fact that
there's a lot more going on inside the series x, but a fun little fact
is if you look at this little slot right here,
this is a secondary intake. the reason for that is
because there's a single fan in the series x, which is
pulling air in from the bottom, running it through all
of the vapor chamber and the heat sink and the
exhausting and out the top. say, i don't know, your
little brother comes by and puts his series s on top. well, no, you have no exhaust
except for this little port right here where
theoretically will obviously be compromised, but you
won't have your series x completely choke and die
on you, which is nice. so one of my big questions
going into this xbox series x and series s unboxings, are how
big are the consoles, right? and i think this does a good
job of really placing you in what you're actually
going to be getting if you shell out your three or $500. so on the right, of course,
we have the series s as well as the series x. series s no doubt is
the smallest xbox yet. it is really, really tiny
compared to everything else. but if you look at these
compared to the xbox one og, as well as the one s and the one x, you'll see there actually are
some pretty big differences. so what you can't see
from this angle is that all of these consoles, if i
very carefully flip them over, nope, i'm gonna have to think about this, so a good way to look at it is like this. so if you look at the actual depth, so on the back, all the
consoles are lined up. you'll see that both
the s as well as the x on the series side are not anywhere near as deep as something like the og xbox, which is just massive and even
the s as well as the one x. and i think that's something
to really keep in mind, as you decide to maybe upgrade and you want to try to figure
out what's going to fit is that the s is gonna
fit anywhere, right? there's no doubt about that. but even the x, you can look at it, it is not massive compared
to these other consoles and it does work in either orientation. so you can have it up and down like this, or you can lay it down
it does have feet on its side. and i think this is the
one that's going to make the most sense if you're
trying to plug it into like a tv cabinet or something. it is tall, right? so if i get these consoles
out of the way i forgot how heavy that is, you look at it beside the original xbox one, it
is a little bit taller, but it is smaller in pretty
much every dimension. i mean, especially if you put it on top, you can really see just
how much smaller these brand new xboxes are. i like making xbox towers. this is very fun. i feel very low to the
ground right now, though. this is a little awkward. but that really shows
the difference though. how far we've come in seven years. but really the main
difference between these two is that you are getting a much, much more similar sort of
experience between the two than we've seen in the past. so if you look at something
like the xbox one, going to the one x, there
is a huge difference in performance, but ultimately they played the same games, right? the one x will play games
at roughly 4k or so, and the standard xbox one
would play games at 720 to up to 1080. well, i expect something
similar this time around. this is your 4k console, right? this has tons of performance, but the thing is you can
play all of the same games on the xbox series s. they might be at 1080p, 1440p, but you'll still be able to get that very similar experience. you have to consider that
this guy's only 300 bucks. so the xbox series x will
be available for preorder on september 22nd and it will
be going on sale on november 10th for $500, and that is
for a one terabyte model. the series s is also
going live for preorder and sail on those same dates, but it is a 512 gig hard
drive or ssd rather, and that is available for $300. now, what's interesting about these, what i would say are pretty
aggressive price points is how the playstation
5 is going to factor in. so the thing is both of these consoles, even though they do the same thing, go about it in very different ways, right? the series s is small, it
lacks the optical drive, but also it is less
powerful, but importantly, it's only $300, which is, i
would say a very good deal for a next-generation console. whereas the series x is more
of the do all, be all kind of top dog of the console
range, but at $500, that to me puts a lot of pressure on sony. how are they going to price that ps5, which as recording this video, who knows, they may announce it any
minute now at this rate. but as of recording this video, we do not have a price
on the playstation 5. so of course there are
two models of the ps5 like there are two models
of the xbox series line, so the ps5 itself, as well
as the ps5 digital edition. but unlike these two consoles, which are very different
specifically in the level of graphics and obviously their hardware, the ps5 is basically the same, right? so you can get the exact
same specs, frame rates, all that kind of stuff. regardless of which playstation 5 you buy, the main difference is
one has an optical disk, one does not. so if you don't care about physical media, you're gonna probably save 50 bucks, maybe $100 on that playstation 5. but right now my
assumption very much is ps5 has gotta be at $500 or less, right? i don't think that they're
going to able to do that, well, if they're 550 or $600, right? i think this is sort of
set that goalpost in the ground. and specifically that digital edition is not gonna be this cheap, right? there's no way they're gonna
be able to push it down. if they had $400 on the
playstation 5 digital edition, i'll be impressed, but 450
for digital edition, 500 for the standard ps5 is
definitely where my bet is at the moment, which means that on the high end, there's gonna be a lot of competition, but on the low end where this
series s is, there's nothing. this console is gonna sell like hotcakes. i mean, they're gonna be
absolutely flying off the shelves. definitely be sure to
subscribe to the channel and stay tuned. not only do we have a
full video on the unboxing and some of the comparisons
with the xbox series s, but also we've done a full video over on our second channel this is
where we do a little bit more of a comparison. regardless, you should make
sure that you're subscribed to the channel 'cause we've got lots more console goodness to come. i hear those sony fellows have a console or two that's coming up soon.