- so i bought the brand new xbox series s. there's not an enormous amount that's new with this console. so it is now available
in this black colorway, which is much more similar to the x, and i think personally,
it looks pretty nice. and it also now has one
terabyte of storage. so that base model series s only has about 360 gigs out of the box, which when you consider that
most aaa titles today are about 100 gigabytes means
that three, maybe four games, and that series s is completely full. this with a little over 800 gigabytes free out of the box is a much
more usable console. but this video is not here just to talk about the new shiny series s, rather to talk about what it's like to buy an xbox series s in 2023. holiday sales is right around the corner. this, while it's $350 right now, is almost certainly going to be on sale in the next couple of months. so i think it's worth just a conversation. should you go out and
buy the xbox series s or should you save a few extra pennies and dollars and nickels and dimes and buy yourself a series x or ps5? so i posted this little guy
on instagram the other day, and one of the overwhelming
comments was on the price point. so if you're not familiar
with the original series s, the white model with 512
gigs of storage started out at $300 msrp. this is at $350 msrp
compared to $300 on the 512. but you're looking at $350
compared to 500 for the series x, $150 starts to be a little
bit more reasonable. and again, you throw
the ps5 digital in there and this becomes a bit harder to justify, which is part of the reason why i think that the killer feature of this is not so much the one terabyte, it's not so much the black color, it's the fact that game pass
exists and is really good. i mean, i think a lot of people
are gonna really think once, twice and three times before
they spend $70 on a new game. if i've got game pass and
i'm vaguely curious about it, not only could i just try
it out using cloud streaming on my phone or on my xbox or whatever, but i also can just download it on my series s and give it a try. and if i don't like it, oh well, i'll just delete
it and move on with my life. i think that that's a real
powerful sort of sales pitch for the series s specifically. you know, it's funny. when you look at the series
s and its lack of disc drive, it is a little bit of a shame just because xbox has such terrific
backwards compatibility. i'll say that there are a
lot of original xbox and 360 and xbox one games that
are available on game pass, but if you have an xbox one, a one s, a one x, or even a series x, you'll be able to easily
pick up super cheap like 360 games, throw it in there and odds are that they will work. so a little bit of a downside when it comes to running on the series s. but if you're out here to have the most complete xbox experience, let me give you some great news. the xbox series x exists and
it is a better console of this in almost every single way. but at $500, it's also a
more expensive console. and i think for a lot of people, the trade off in value
is absolutely worth it to pick up the series s. and it's so refreshing to
go back to a little console that just goes underneath my tv and doesn't require its
own spotlight, candelabra, and music fanfare every time i turn it on. - [ken] it can
almost fit in matt's pocket. - i'm not wearing my jncos. - unlike the ps5, which
has an internal ssd, which you could swap out yourself, on the xbox series s and x, you have to use the
storage expansion module. so when it first launched, there were only a handful
of modules available and they were very expensive. thankfully, this has
gotten a little bit better. so right now, you can get
yourself a 512-gig expansion for about 80 bucks or one
terabyte for about 150. and there are now options
from both wd and seagate. i would still love to
have a little bit more of a diy experience, but it is now at least somewhat feasible to upgrade the series
s or series x yourself. like obviously, we're gonna
play a bunch of games. i'm gonna show some of
the sort of performance. but just the philosophy of the series s i think, has really, i've
kind of warmed up on a lot. like i've always liked this console, but sort of coming back
to it three years later, seeing games that have been
properly optimized for it now that we've kind of gotten rid of some of the shackles of last generation. i feel good about the
series s and its future, and i wasn't so sure about
that in the beginning. this is a really good time
to talk about the series s because there are now
proper xbox exclusives for this generation that are only on the series s and the series x and the pc, but well, for the
purpose of this conversation, it's only on the series
s and the series x. it's one thing to read
the speeds and feeds and to watch digital foundry all day, but it's another to actually play some of the games on the series s. so let's start out with a couple of titles that are exclusive to
this generation of xbox, starting with "starfield". now "starfield" is a game
that has gotten some criticism for its performance not only on pc, which i'm recording this on launch day. so probably some patches and
some optimization certainly for nvidia graphics cards, but also the fact that both
on series s and series x, it only runs at 30 frames per second. now this is pretty standard
especially for last generation and certainly for bethesda titles. and while of course it's always nice to have 60 frames per second, when you look at some of the
things that bethesda are doing with "starfield", it is quite next gen. i mean, i can't get that many potatoes to fall out my airlock
door on an xbox one, can i? at least i can't do it at 60 fps,
it would be like potato fps. some of the other things
i like about "starfield" is the details. so this is one of these
games that's starting to really show what this
generation of console is capable of without the shackles of xbox one and ps4 holding things back. so with the much improved cpus and the very solid graphics
even on the series s, what we're seeing is
incredibly detailed textures. now yes, "starfield" is not
running at 4k on series s, but honestly yes, if you pixel
peep, you'll see that like, oh, the shadows aren't quite as nice and there's certainly not as
much detail in the distance. but when you're actually playing the game, the things that i care about is how well does it just
generally look and also how well does it play because
fluidity is important. i mean personally, i think
this looks pretty nice, and when i see the arguments, and there's some
validity, i will give you, but when i see the arguments about how the series s is
holding back the generation, to me, i don't fully buy it. now yeah, this is certainly
a less powerful console, but you're still getting the same games. am i running them at lower resolutions and slightly lower settings? yes, but that's the same thing i would do when i'm playing on a
mid-range pc compared to a high-end pc, right? it doesn't hold pcs back
as long as they've got that fast ssd storage, the eight-core cpu. like there's a lot of
things that are very similar with the series s and the series x, the main difference is the size of memory and just how powerful the gpu is. one thing i notice some
people have complained about is the post-processing
with "starfield". yeah, there's quite heavy
like depth of field, and especially like motion
blur and like film grain. but honestly, i feel
like it actually helps, especially the motion blur considering that this is only a 30 fps experience, helps really to kind of
improve that fluidity. i think it looks nice. and when we're running it
slightly lower settings, i think that that film grain kind of helps to hide a little bit of the pixeliness. that definitely a technical term. in the case of "starfield", i feel like i'm getting
substantially a very, very similar experience
to what i would be getting on the series x just at, you know, 1080ish instead of 4k. i can live with that, especially considering
how much money i saved. where a game like "starfield"
runs fine at 30 fps, when it comes to the
new "forza motorsport", 60 fps, that fluidity is really important. now i will say that this is
an early copy of the game, so this is just a preview build. i can only do a few races here, but there are a couple
things i do wanna point out. so turn 10 do give you
two different modes. so just like with a lot
of games for the series s, you can run it either
visuals or performance mode. visuals is 30 fps, performance is 60. and they specifically call out that performance is
recommended and i agree, not only just because i think that 60 fps and that fluidity is
important for a racing game, but also in my opinion, the visual mode doesn't
look that much better. and of course, i am just talking about the series s version of the game. if you're playing on x, maybe the fidelity mode is
gonna look a little bit better with ray tracing and whatnot, but for me, that fluidity is absolutely
what i'm looking for. and as you're about to see, it still looks pretty
good on series s, man! still looks pretty good. now keep in mind that
i don't have a apples to apples comparison
with "gran turismo" just because i don't have the
same cars and same tracks, but like the general feeling is certainly that the cars feel a bit heavier,
a little bit more weighty. you can tell when you
overcook in a corner, you're just gonna understeer, which is the way it is in real
life for most cars at least. now you can see here that
i've got a very smooth 60 fps, and to me, it's really nice. now if you wanna pixel peep, you wanna pull out your
digital foundry glasses, you will be able to tell that it is not the sharpest
presentation in the world, specifically when i'm sitting right in front of a monitor like this. so look at the gauges, you
look at some of the distance, it's not massively sharp, but as far as being able to enjoy the game and have a great time, there's nothing here that's bothering me. i can easily make out everything. and if i'm sitting even
slightly farther away, the differences are not huge. so in an actual race scenario, which is a little bit more demanding, what you'll see is the
performance is still really solid. now the game is going to be, oh good lord. okay, okay, okay. all right, all right. what if i just smash 'em? just to test the series s, of
course, let's just smash em. (cars thud)
(car tires screech) (austin laughs) oh my god, that looks
bad, all right. (laughs) whoops. who needs all your paint? i think paint is optional. something else with a series s is that you're not really
getting a lesser experience when it comes to playing online titles. so take something like
"overwatch 2" for example, which is a terrific version of the game on series s that if you want to, you actually can crank it
all the way up to 120 fps. i was just playing on the standard model, which is like 1440p and 60,
and it's incredibly smooth. it's really, really well-optimized, which mind you, not a
graphically-demanding game, but the same cannot be said for
"call of duty warzone 2.0". that is quite a demanding game. and when you look at
this compared to running on like a ps4 or something, it is a night and day difference. again, of course, it is not
going to look quite as nice as on your pc or your series x
or your ps5, but importantly, it's still a very smooth
gameplay experience and it still looks pretty good, especially the draw distance
is plenty good enough for me to pretend to snipe
people from a very long way away. we are giving up a little bit when it comes to the raw pixel counts and just how far the settings
have been pushed out. but at the end of the day, you're still getting largely
the same performance, not in all cases, but in most cases, you're still getting a very smooth, very playable 60 fps in
most of these titles. and that even comes across to "gta 5". so "gta 5" is now included with game pass, which is part of the reason why i wanted to try it for this video. and as someone who played
"gta 5" when it came out in the xbox 360 like 10 years ago, the fact that it's a nice, smooth 60 fps, it's high res and yeah, the series s is not going to be quite as nice-looking as the series
x 'cause it doesn't have like some of the ray tracing and whatnot and probably not worth actually
paying for that upgrade. but if you've got it including game pass, i think it's actually
still a very solid version of the game. out of the games i've tried, i have not found a single
title, whether it's a brand new, you know, current generation exclusive, whether it's a modern powerful title, or whether it's a little
bit of an older game that's, you know, been around
for a bit like "gta 5" or something that's not super
demanding like "overwatch". not one of these games is a
measurably worse experience when it comes to gameplay, not graphics. all these games are a
little less high resolution, a little less detailed than
on the higher end consoles. now a lot of people have pointed to "baldur's gate" not
supporting the xbox series s when it comes to split-screen
mode as an example of why the series s is
holding this generation back. i get the argument that
this is less powerful, that it could hold things
back, but in reality, if i'm spending this much less, i'm expecting a slightly
lesser experience. i don't think it's as big of a negative as i think a lot of people are
trying to make it out to be, especially when you get
consider that this is a $300 box that with a game pass subscription
gives you tons of titles that you simply can't play on like ps5. i think that's still a very
compelling value proposition. i don't want this video
to entirely come off as i'm a series s defender, but i think it's gotten an unfair rap. and especially now that we're three years into this generation, the series s, i think has really sort of
come into its own in a way now that we're really seeing these games that are exclusive to this generation. that's impressive to me, honestly. and i feel like i'm very happy
that there is a entry level into this generation that's
not gonna cost you 500 bucks because let's be real, the series s is gonna
be the cheapest version of any console you can buy for
quite some time, maybe ever. i have the luxury of playing all kinds of super high-end
hardware, and guess what? i had exactly the same amount
of fun playing all these games on the series s. did they look a little less shiny? yep. did that matter at all to me? nope. have fun, play your games,
doesn't matter where you do it, but the series s, pretty
good place to do it. that's a conclusion.