do you remember the summer of 2022 when a 
record drought had gripped not only a large   part of the united states, but most of europe 
too? reservoirs were empty, wildfires spread,   crop yields dropped, and rivers ran dry. it 
seemed like practically the whole world was   facing heatwaves and water shortages. 
but there was one video that warned   against hoping for rain, at least not for 
big storm right at first. rob thompson,   a meteorologist and professor at the university 
of reading, shared a little backyard experiment:   cups of water being inverted on top of grass 
with varying moisture levels in the soil. the   results seemed to show that the dry soil absorbed 
the water much more slowly than the wet grass or   normal summer conditions. this video was shared 
across the internet as a viral reminder that,   contrary to what you might think, droughts 
can increase the impact of flooding.   but is that actually true? does dry soil 
absorb moisture more slowly than wet soil,   and could a storm after a drought cause more 
runoff and worse damage than if the ground was   already wet? no matter what your intuitions say, 
the answer's a little more complicated than you   might think. and of course, i built some garage 
demonstrations to show why. i'm grady, and this   is practical engineering. today we're exploring 
the relationship between droughts and floods. of all of the natural disasters we face, floods 
are among the worst. there have been more than   30 floods in the us since 1980 that caused over 
a billion dollars in damages each! and that's   not including hurricanes. in fact, floods are so 
impactful that i've already made a whole series   of videos about how dangerous they are and many of 
the ways that engineers work to reduce the risk of   flooding or at least reduce the damage they cause. 
many of those flood infrastructure projects are   based on a "design storm," essentially a made 
up flood used to set the capacity or height of   a structure. for example, the storm gutters 
on your street might be designed to carry   the 25-year storm. many spillways for dams 
are designed for a flood that is unlikely to   ever occur called the probable maximum flood. 
of course, we just can't run full-scale tests   on flood infrastructure. despite architects and 
contractors saying we always rain on the parade,   civil engineers can't call down a flood of 
a particular magnitude and duration from   the heavens. and even if they could, 
it would be an ethical gray area. so,   engineers who design water infrastructure 
instead use models to help estimate various   magnitudes of flooding and predict how 
the built environment will respond. there are all kinds of hydrologic models that 
can simulate just about every aspect of the water   cycle you could imagine, but modeling basic storm 
hydrology is actually pretty simple. it's usually   broken into three steps. precipitation is exactly 
what you would expect: how much rain actually   falls from the sky and hits the surface of the 
earth? transformation describes what actually   happens to those raindrops as they run along the 
ground and the timing of how they combine and   concentrate. but in between precipitation 
and transformation, there's a third step.   because not all those rain drops run off and 
reach a river or stream. some of them get stuck   in puddles and ponds (called abstractions), 
some evaporate, and some soak into the ground. i say all this to point out that the engineers 
and scientists who study flooding have put a   great deal of thought and research into the how, 
where, how much, and why rainfall soaks into the   ground. it's the third leg of the "estimating how 
bad floods can be" stool (a stool, by the way, i   spent a good part of my education and professional 
experience sitting on). and of course,   there's a litany of factors that affect how much 
precipitation is lost to infiltration into the   earth versus how much runs off into rivers and 
creeks: temperature, vegetation, season, land use,   soil type, and more. but one of the factors is 
more important than any other: soil moisture.   and it shouldn't be that surprising. how much 
water is being held between those tiny grains   of silt, sand, or clay plays a pretty big 
role in how much more water can flow in. maybe you're starting to see what i'm getting at 
here (and i promise the demos are coming but i   think it's important to know the theory first). 
one of the most beloved mathematical expressions   of hydrologists everywhere is horton's 
equation. looks a little intimidating,   but it's much simpler as a graph. this logarithmic 
curve shows the infiltration rate we can expect   during a rain event of a given magnitude 
over time. at first, when the soil is driest,   the rate of infiltration is highest. 
as rainfall continues to soak the soil,   less water is absorbed, and the infiltration 
rate slowly approaches a steady state. the inputs to horton's equation are fine 
for a laboratory, but they're not really   easy to estimate in a real world scenario, 
so most hydrologic models don't use it.   one of the simpler infiltration models actually 
used in engineering is the curve number method,   originally developed by the soil conservation 
service in the 1950s. here, instead of esoteric   laboratory variables, infiltration rates are tied 
to actual soil types and land uses we can estimate   in the field, and this is meant to be dead simple. 
you too can be a civil engineer by simply picking   the right number from a table and feeding 
it into a model. in fact, let's try it out.   my backyard is an open space, 
i would say in good condition,   with mostly clay which is hydrologic soil 
group d. so my curve number should be 80. i won't make you go through the calculations, 
because we can make the computer do them. this   is the hydrologic modeling system, a free 
piece of software available from the us army   corps of engineers. i'll plug in my backyard curve 
number, plug in a storm with a constant rainfall   over a day, and push go. the bars show the total 
amount of precipitation for each time step. the   red portion shows the losses and the blue portion 
shows the runoff. at first, all the precipitation   goes toward losses as the rainfall gets caught 
in abstractions. but once the puddles fill up,   some runoff starts to occur. you can see 
that, for a constant rate of precipitation,   runoff increases over time, and infiltration goes 
down, just like we saw with horton's equation.   i know we're in the weeds just a bit, but i think 
it's important to know that we have technically   rigorous ways to describe our intuitions of how 
floods work. the curve number method (along with   many others) are used across the world by 
engineers to characterize floods and even   to calibrate hydrological models to actual 
floods. of course models are never perfect,   but at least they're based on real science. 
water fits into the spaces, the interstices,   between soil particles. the more water 
there already, the harder it is for more   water to flow in. but you don't need 
a graph. you can see it for yourself. i hammered a clear tube into my curve 
number 80 backyard, and we can watch   the water flow into that clay soil with grass of 
quote-unquote "good condition." this is actually   a crude version of an actual scientific 
test apparatus called an infiltrometer,   but this isn't strictly scientific. the real 
test involves hammering the tube deeper to   prevent lateral spread and maintaining a constant 
level to remove water pressure as a variable.   but, hey, this is just a youtube demo, 
and i wanted to push my kid on the   swing instead of babysitting the water 
level in a clear tube for 45 minutes. i did take the time to graph the water 
level for the duration of the experiment   so you can see the results more clearly. the 
level drops quickly at first and slows down   to roughly a constant rate, just as the 
theory predicted. some of that slowdown   is because of the decreased water pressure 
over time, the variable i didn't control,   but it's mostly because the soil became saturated, 
making it harder for water to infiltrate. just for fun, i ran another experiment in the 
garage with a tube full of sand. fyi, that's   roughly equivalent to "natural desert landscaping" 
with an associated curve number of 63. are you   feeling like an expert at this yet? it's a little 
harder to tell in the sand because the water flows   so quickly, but it does in fact flow more quickly 
at the beginning before the sand is saturated.   once it saturates, the infiltration is more 
or less constant, just like we would expect.   the reason for the sand demo is this: we've 
left out a key consideration so far which is   the initial conditions. how much water is in the 
soil at the start of the event? if it's a lot,   you would assume there would be less 
infiltration. if the soil is dry,   you would assume infiltration would be 
greater. is it true? let's try it out! again, the sand is maybe a little bit 
too porous for this demonstration,   and my method for adding the water isn't so 
precise either. but, just paying attention   to how quickly the tube fills up with water with 
the valve fully opened, the dry sand takes longer.   that's because more of the water is 
infiltrating into the soil. the wet   sand is like starting halfway down the horton 
curve. but that wasn't a super satisfying result,   so i put some potting soil into the tube 
next (curve number 86). i ran it once dry,   then ran it again after the soil was saturated, 
and lined the shots up side by side. this time you   can clearly see the difference. water infiltrates 
into the unsaturated soil much more quickly,   but once it does, it infiltrates about 
the same rate as the already wet example. we have a word for this: antecedent conditions. 
most of the factors we talked about that affect   infiltration rates don't stay the same over 
time. they change. many hydrologic models use   average conditions as a starting point, but 
the real world isn't very average. vegetation   is seasonal; temperatures fluctuate; watersheds 
experience fires and droughts (hint hint). how   wet a watershed was before the storm is an 
important factor in determining how much   runoff will occur. according to all the 
theory and practical examples i've shown,   a wet watershed will absorb less 
precipitation, so flooding will be worse.   and the opposite is true for a dry one. more water 
will soak in, making flooding less impactful. but,   that seems contrary to the video i showed in 
the introduction, and do you really think i   would make a video called "do droughts make 
floods worse" if the answer was just, "no"? it turns out that certain kinds of 
soil, when they become very dry,   also become hydrophobic. they actually repel 
water. this is not a super-well-understood   phenomenon, but it seems that under very dry 
conditions, waxes, plant root excretions,   and the action of bacteria and fungi 
create a layer at the surface that reduces   a soil's affinity to water. if you've ever 
forgotten to water a houseplant for a while,   you may have experienced this yourself. it's 
hard to get the water to soak in at first,   and many gardeners will actually fully 
submerge a potted plant to properly water it. because it's a finicky phenomenon, i had 
a little trouble creating water repellent   soil in the garage, but luckily, hydrophobicity is 
interesting enough to be a fun kids toy. i bought   some hydrophobic sand and put a layer of it on 
top of my regular sand to simulate this effect   of soil water repellency. you can see clearly that 
the repellent layer slows down the infiltration of   the water. it still gets through, but it happens 
a lot more slowly compared to if it weren't there.   so, why doesn't this effect show up in the 
theory (or least the theory of flood modeling)? there are a few reasons: number 1 is that 
most hydrophobic soil effects disappear   pretty quickly after the soil gets wet. it 
just doesn't last that long, as you know   if you've dealt with it in your potted plants. 
number 2 is that it's a phenomenon that hasn't   been well-characterized in terms of what soils 
experience repellency and under what conditions.   there's no nice table for an engineer to look 
up values. but number 3 is the biggest one:   there are other antecedent factors that just end 
up being more important. very high soil moisture   before a flood is much more likely to lead to 
severe flooding than very low soil moisture   in most cases. the extreme example of this is 
rain-on-snow flooding, which contributed to the   2022 flooding in yellowstone national park. but 
there is one big exception to this rule: fires. when organic stuff burns, some of that 
volatile material creates hydrophobic   properties in the underlying soil, reducing 
its ability to absorb rainfall. that effect   plus the loss of vegetation on the surface 
means that the potential for flooding after   a fire increases dramatically. storms after 
wildfires are known to create massive floods,   mudslides, and erosion, so there is a lot of 
research into understanding this phenomenon. so what's the answer? are floods worse after 
a drought? dry conditions do kill plants and   grasses that slow down runoff, they create 
hydrophobic soils that briefly keep water   from soaking into the ground. and, they often 
make fire conditions worse which in turn,   can lead to more impactful floods. but droughts 
also leave the soil drier than average,   increasing its ability to soak up rainfall. 
in many cases, a flood after a good soaking   rainfall is going to generate far more 
runoff than a flood after a drought. rob told me he was completely surprised by the 
response to his video, especially since he only   spent a few hours making it. his goal was to show 
that, under certain conditions, flash floods can   be worse when the underlying soil is very dry. but 
i suspect if his demo lasted a little bit longer   (and his setup was a little more rigorous), the 
results may have looked a little different. and   on the other hand, most models used by engineers 
to estimate floods assume that infiltration always   goes up as soil moisture goes down, completely 
neglecting the fact that some soils lose their   affinity for water at very low moisture 
levels. one statistician famously said that,   "all models are wrong, but some are useful." 
and even something as simple as the flow of   water into the soil has so many complexities 
to keep track of. like most answers to simple   questions in engineering and in life: 
the answer is that's it's complicated. questions like this always seem so 
straightforward, but the deeper you dig,   the more you realize not only how important 
context is, but also the limitations of your own   knowledge. i do a lot of reading and researching, 
but this channel is called practical engineering   for a reason: i want you to see where the 
rubber meets the road and how all this theory in   textbooks is actually applied in the real world. 
so when i need to learn something new, reading   and research usually aren't enough. that's why 
i use brilliant.org, the sponsor of this video. brilliant has a huge library of courses that are 
almost sure to cover whatever you're trying to   learn. there's a brand new one i really 
loved called explaining variation about   correlations and regressions. just like this 
video, it's about putting some mathematical   rigor over the top of seemingly unrelated 
data. of course, the lessons are in there and they're great,   but what i find far more important is that each 
one is interactive. most people, including me,   learn better when they combine seeing, reading, 
and doing, and that's why i start with brilliant   when i want to master a new skill. it's 
usually faster, and it's always more fun. if that sounds useful to you, you should 
go try it yourself and see if you agree at   brilliant.org/practicalengineering. it's 
totally free to try for an entire month,   and you can get through a lot of courses in 
that time. but if you do find yourself coming   back like i did, the link below will get you 
20% off an annual premium subscription. they   even have an app so you can try this on your 
phone. i think everyone has some part of their   life that could benefit from mastering a 
new skill. brilliant makes that easy to do,   and it supports the channel too. thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think!