almost immediately after i started 
making videos about engineering, people   started asking me to play video games on the 
channel. apparently there's roughly a billion   people who watch online gaming these days, and 
some of them watch silly engineering videos too!   and there's one game that i get recommended even 
more than minecraft: polybridge. so i finally   broke down one evening after the kids went to bed 
and gave it a try. i'm really not much of a gamer,   but i have to admit that i got a little addicted 
to this game (hashtag not-an-ad). i admit too that   there really is a lot of engineering involved. you 
have different materials that give your structure   different properties. the physics are relatively 
accurate. you get a budget to spend on each   project. and your score is based on the efficiency 
of your design. but there's one way this game is   not like real structural engineering at all: 
if your bridge collapses, you get to try again! in the real world, we can't design a dam, 
a building, a transmission line pylon,   or a bridge, spend all that money to build 
it, watch how it performs, tear it down,   and build it back better if we're not happy 
with the first iteration. structures have to   work perfectly on the first try. of course 
we have structural design software that   can simulate different scenarios, but 
it's only as powerful as your inputs,   which are often just educated guesses. we don't 
know all the loads, all the soil conditions,   or all the ways materials and connections will 
change over time from corrosion, weathering,   damage, or loading conditions. there are always 
going to be differences between what we expect   a structure to do and what actually happens 
when it gets built. hopefully engineers use   factors of safety to account for all that 
uncertainty, but you don't have to dig too   deep into the history books to find examples 
where an engineer neglected something that   turned out to matter a lot, sometimes to the 
detriment of public safety. so what do you do? we can't build a project then watch the cars 
and trucks drive over with the pretty green   and red colors on each structural member to see 
how they're performing in real time... except you   kind of can, with sensors. it turns out 
that plenty of types of infrastructure,   especially those that have serious 
implications for public safety,   are equipped with instruments 
to track their performance over   time and even save lives by providing an 
early warning if something is going wrong. i love sensors. to me, it's like a superpower to 
be able to measure something about the world that   you can't detect with just your human senses. plus 
i'm always looking for an opportunity to exercise   my inalienable right to take measurements 
of stuff and make cool graphs of the data.   so i have a bunch of demonstrations set up to 
show you how engineers employ these sensors to   compare the predicted and actual performance of 
structures, not just for the sake of delightful   data visualization, but sometimes even 
to save lives. i'm grady, and this is   practical engineering. in today's episode, we're 
talking about infrastructure instrumentation. and what better place to start than with a big 
steel beam? in fact, this is the biggest steel   beam that my local metals distributor would 
willingly load on top of my tiny car. one of   the biggest questions in polybridge and real 
world engineering is this: how much stress is   each structural member experiencing? of course, 
this is something we can estimate relatively   quickly. so let's do the engineer thing and 
predict it first. beam deflection calculations   are structural engineering 101, so we can do 
some quick recreational math to predict how   much this thing flexes under different amounts of 
weight. and we can use my weight as an example:   about'0 pounds or 82 kilograms. the calculation 
is relatively simple. you can choose your   preferred unit system and pause here if you want 
to go through them. standing at the beam's center,   i should deflect it by about 2 thousandths of an 
inch or about 60 microns, around the diameter of   the average human hair. in other words, i am a 
fly on the wall of this beam (or really a fly   on the flange). i'm barely perceptible. in fact, 
it would take more than 100 of me to deflect this   beam beyond what would normally be allowed in the 
structural code. and it would take a lot more than   that to permanently bend it. but 2 thousandths of 
an inch isn't nothing, so, let's check our math. i put my dial indicator underneath the beam, and 
added some weight. i started with 45 pound or 20   kilogram plates. each time i add one, you see the 
beam deflect downward just a tiny bit. after three   plates, i added myself, bringing the total up 
to around 315 pounds or 143 kilos of weight. and   actually, the deflection measured by the dial 
indicator came pretty close to the theoretical   predictions made with the simple formula. here 
they are on a graph, and there's the point at my   weight, with a deflection of around 2 thousandths 
of an inch or 60 microns, just like we said. but,   we can't always use dial indicators in the 
real world because they need a reference point,   in this case, the floor. up on the superstructure 
of a bridge, there's no immovable reference point   like that. so an alternative is to use the beam 
itself as a reference. that's how a strain gauge   works, and that's the cylindrical device that 
i'm epoxying to the bottom flange of my beam. a strain gauge works by measuring the tiny change 
in distance between two parts of the steel. you   might know that when you apply a downward load to 
a beam, it creates internal stress. at the top,   the beam feels compression, and at the bottom 
it feels tension. but it doesn't just feel the   stress, it also reacts to it by changing in shape. 
let me show you what i mean. when i put one of the   plates on top of the beam, we can see a change 
in the readout for the strain gauge. (of course,   i had the gauge set to the wrong unit, so let 
me overlay the proper one with the magic of   video compositing.) for each plate i add to the 
beam, we see that the flange actually lengthens,   in this case by about 3 microstrain. that's 
probably not a unit of measure you're familiar   with, but it really just means the bottom 
of the beam increased in length by 0.0003%.   when i add another weight, we make it 0.0003% 
longer again. same with the third weight. and   then when i stand on top of the whole stack, we 
get a total strain of about 0.002%, a completely   imperceptible change in shape to the human eye, 
but the strain gauged picked it up no problem. imagine how valuable it would be to 
an engineer to have many of these   gauges attached to the myriad of structural 
members in a complicated bridge or building   and be able to see how each one responds 
to changes in loading conditions in real   time. you could quickly and easily check your 
design calculations to make sure the structure   is behaving the way you expected. in my simple 
example in the studio, the gauge is measuring   pretty much exactly what the predictions 
would show, but consider a structure far   more complicated than a steel beam across two 
blocks, in other words, any other structure.   what factors get neglected in that 
simple equation i showed earlier? we didn't consider the weight of the beam 
itself; i'm not actually a one-dimensional   single point load, like the equation assumes, 
but rather my weight is spread out unevenly   across the area of my sneakers; is the length 
exactly what we entered into the equation? and,   what about three-dimensional effects? for 
example, i put another strain gauge on the   top flange of the beam. if you just follow the 
calculations, you would assume this flange would   undergo compression, getting a tiny bit shorter 
with increased load. but really what happens in   this flange depends entirely on how i shift 
my weight. i can make the strain go up or   down simply by adjusting the way i stand on 
top, creating a twisting effect in the beam,   something that would be much more challenging for 
an engineer to predict with simple calculations.   putting instruments on a structure not 
only helps validate the original design,   but provides an easy way to identify if a 
member is overloaded. so it's not unusual   for critical structures to be equipped 
with instruments just like this one,   with engineers regularly reviewing the data 
to make sure everything is working correctly. of course, we don't only use steel in 
infrastructure projects, but lots of   concrete too. and just like steel, concrete 
structures undergo strain when loaded. so i   took a gauge and cast it into some concrete to 
measure the internal strain of the material. this   is just a typical concrete beam mold and some 
ready-mix concrete from the hardware store. and   even before we applied any load, the gauge could 
measure internal strain of the concrete from the   temperature changes and chemical reactions of the 
curing process. shrinkage during curing is one   of the reasons that concrete cracks, after all. 
luckily my beam stayed in one piece. once the beam   had cured and hardened for a few weeks, i broke it 
free from the mold. compared to steel, concrete is   a really stiff material, meaning it takes a lot 
of stress to cause any kind of measurable strain.   so i got out my trusty hydraulic press for this 
one. i slowly started adding force from the jack,   then letting the beam sit so the data logger 
could take a few readings from the strain gauge   inside. after the fourth step, at just over 
50 microstrain, the beam completely broke.   hopefully you can see how useful it might be 
to have an embedded sensor inside a concrete   slab or beam, tracking strain over time, and 
especially when you know about the amount of   strain that corresponds to the strength of 
the material. this is information that would   be impossible to know without that sensor cast 
into the concrete, and there's something almost   magical about that. it's like the civil 
engineering equivalent of x-ray vision. one of the most amazing things about these sensors 
is their ability to measure tiny distances. 1   microstrain means one millionth of the original 
length, which on the scale of most structures,   is a practically impossible distance for a human 
to perceive. but in addition to tiny distances,   they also are excellent in measuring changes that 
happen over a large period of time. a perfect   example is a crack in a concrete structure. you 
can look at grass, but you probably can't perceive   it growing, and you can watch paint, but you won't 
perceive it drying. and, you can watch a crack in   a concrete slab, like this one in my garage, but 
you'll probably never see it grow or shrink over   time. so how do you know if it's changing? 
you could use a crack meter like this one,   and take readings manually over the course of 
a month or year or decade. but in many cases,   that's not a good use of any person's 
time, especially when the crack is   somewhere difficult or dangerous to access. 
so, just like strain gauges measure distance,   you can also get crack meters that measure 
distance electronically. i put this one   across the crack in my garage slab and recorded 
the changes over the course of a few months. and, i know why this crack exists. 
it's because the soil under the slab   is expansive clay that shrinks and swells 
according to its moisture content. i thought   it would be fun to use some soil moisture 
sensors to see if i could correlate the two,   but my sensors weren't quite sensitive enough. 
however, just looking at the rainfall in my city,   you can get a decent idea about what might be 
driving changes in the width of this crack,   which grew by about half a millimeter over 
the course of this demonstration. cracking   concrete isn't always something to be concerned 
about, but if cracks increase in size over time,   it can be a real issue. so, using sensors 
to track the movement of cracks over long   durations can help engineers assess 
whether to take remedial measures. and, there are a lot of parameters in engineering 
that change slowly over time. dams are among the   most dangerous civil structures because of what 
can happen when one fails. because of that,   they're often equipped with all kinds of 
instruments as a way to monitor performance and   make sure they are stable over the long term. one 
parameter i've talked about before is subsurface   water pressure. when water seeps into the soil and 
rock below a dam, it can cause erosion that leads   to sinkholes and voids, and it also causes uplift 
pressure that adds a destabilizing force to a dam.   instruments used to measure groundwater pressure 
are called piezometers. they often resemble a   water well with a long casing and a screen at the 
bottom, but instead of taking water out, we just   measure the depth to the water level. that's made 
a lot easier with electronic sensors, like this   one, but i don't have a piezometer in my backyard. 
so, to show you how this works, i'm just hooking   my pressure transducer to the tap so we can see 
how the city's water pressure changes over time.   i hooked this up to a laptop and let it run for 
about a day and a half, and here are the results. the graph is a little messy because of the water 
use in my house throwing off the readings every   so often, but you can see a clear trend. the 
pressure is lowest when water demands are high,   especially during the evenings when people 
are watering lawns, cooking, and showering. in   the middle of the night, the pumps fill up the 
water towers, increasing the local pressure in   the pipes. this information isn't that useful, 
except that it gives you a new perspective of   thinking about real-world measurements. recently 
i had a plumber at my house who took a pressure   reading at the tap, which seemed like a totally 
normal thing at the time. but now, seeing that the   pressure changes by around half a bar (or nearly 
10 psi) over the course of a day, it seems kind   of silly to just take a single measurement. and 
that's the value of sensors, giving engineers more   information to make important decisions and 
keep people safe after a structure is built. by the way, the engineering of these instruments 
is pretty interesting on its own. most of the   sensors i've used in the demos were sent to us 
by our friends at geokon, not as a sponsorship   but just because they enjoy the channel and wanted 
to help out. these devices rely on a wire inside   the case whose tension is related to the force or 
strain on the sensor. the readout device sends an   electrical pulse that plucks the wire and then 
listens to the frequency that comes back. you   can see the pluck and the return signal on my 
oscilloscope here. just like plucking a guitar   string, the wire inside the instrument will 
vibrate at a different frequency depending on   the tension, and you can even hear the sound 
of the vibration if you get close enough.   of course civil engineers use lots 
of different kinds of sensors,   but vibrating wire instruments are particularly 
useful in long-term applications because they are   incredibly reliable and they don't drift much over 
time. they're also less vulnerable to interference   and issues with long cables, since they work in 
the frequency domain. in fact, there are vibrating   wire instruments that have been installed and 
functioning for decades with no issues or drift. and the demos i've shown in this video just 
scratch the surface. we've come up with   creative ways to measure all kinds of things 
in civil engineering that don't necessarily   lend themselves to garage experiments, but 
are still critical in performance monitoring   of structures. borehole extensometers are used 
to measure settlement and heave at excavations,   dams, and tunnels. load cells measure the 
force in anchors to make sure they don't   lose tension over time. inclinometers detect 
subtle shifts in embankments or slopes by   measuring the angle of tilt in a borehole along 
its length. engineers keep an eye on vibrations,   temperature, pressure, tilt, flow rate, 
and more to make sure that structures   are behaving like they were designed 
and to keep people safe from disaster. here's another engineering measurement you 
may not have ever considered: the exposure   length of a blade in a handheld razor. luckily, 
today's sponsor henson has thought about it,   and in fact come up with a design that holds the 
blade within an extremely tight tolerance - that   tiny green area is the spec. henson reached out 
to me last year about sponsoring an episode,   and i thought, "what does a personal care product 
have to do with engineering?" so i said send me a   razor and let me try it out. and i don't even 
know where my old razor went because i haven't   used it once since i tried the one henson 
sent. is a new razor going to change your   life? probably not. but, shaving's a chore (at 
least to me), and using a precision tool makes   it feel less like a chore, and instead 
a part of my day that i actually enjoy. i had never used a safety razor and figured they 
were old technology. totally not true - these are   made in an aerospace machine shop. i also 
figured there would be a learning curve,   but that also wasn't true. this razor is so easy 
to use, i don't think i could ever go back to a   cartridge razor with their flexible blades and 
difficulty in rinsing out. if you've ever been   on the market for a tool and splurged on 
the nicest brand, this is that, except,   it's not really a splurge. the blades for the 
henson razor are so cheap you could probably   put a new one on for every shave and still 
save money. and in fact, if you use my code   practicalengineering at checkout, you can get 
a 100-pack of blades on me. just make sure both   the razor and the blades are in your cart, enter 
the code, and the discount will be applied right   away. there's no subscription service or a 
monthly fee, it's just a cool razor that i   really like and i think you will too. thank you 
for watching and let me know what you think.