- hello, welcome to our
wonderful sponsor, micro center where we have a broke
versus pro challenge. obviously as a professional
at broke versus pro, i've invited a broke person bitwit kyle, i apologize for calling you broke. however, today we have
free reign of micro center, we're here before it opens to
the way that it works today is that we each have two minutes
to walk through the store and get, well, i should
say, run through the store and get all of the
components for our pc built. so micro center are giving us both the exact same msi
rtx 3060ti graphics cards but the rest of the video is up to us. - these are hard to get. - well, you've got one in your hand. - i feel like i already won.
(austin laughing) - now, we do get the opportunity to walk the store beforehand to take closer look at any
of the deals that they have any of the parts that they have in store without spoiling their strategy. what are you thinking? are you thinking of
going bigger, higher end? are you gonna try to go
for the aesthetic side? are you gonna go, try
to go for the budget? - you know what? i'm still casing out the place. i gotta look over the inventory and i also don't want to give you too much too many crumbs here and how
manipulative you are austin. i've never watched
broke versus poor before so i'm not exactly sure what to expect. - [austin] i like how you
called it, broke versus poor. - oh, did i wait did i
say broke versus poor? damn it, i meant. - [austin] lol, it is up to
you if you wanna do it again. - no i do, broke versus pro, right? - yeah.
- okay sorry. (beeping) i've actually never
watched broke versus poor (groans) i said it again. why do i keep saying that? it's the same thing. they're synonyms kyle, come on. (beeping) i've actually never watched
broke versus pro before but the way i think this is gonna go is that one of us is gonna
build a really high end system and spend a lot of money. the other person's gonna
go the budget route and we're just gonna have to
see if the extra money spent on the high end rig is
worth the performance game. the micro center prices
are so good too, but they are good yes oh, wow. yeah, look at that, damn. the original sticker on this is 250 and they've got it for 139. - that's ridiculous. - be a great idea to use
in a build wouldn't it? good selection of power supplies. - since we're only gonna be
shooting this video for one day i could just buy the absolute
crappiest psu that's here. - i gotta say we shot a lot
of videos in micro center. how cool is it to have free range? - it's kind of awesome. - it's pretty good. - i was like, i own the
place, i feel important. - okay, well, calm down, calm
down, let's not go that far. - all right, memory options. the gskills are always safe here. - hang on, here's the problem. they all look the same from the front. i can't wait
(beeping) this feels wrong. i'm feel like i'm not
supposed to do this right now. - they unlocked their stuff. they do, we're in their store, they unlocked everything for us. - that's amazing. - another aspect here of
course is the aesthetic, it is the creativity,
but you know, its rgb you can spend a lot of money very quickly. - that is true. - you're gonna have to choose between your budget versus the aesthetics. - exactly. - so these ones are gonna be cheaper because they're out of a box
secondhand it looks like. - no
- no, okay. - look at these are the display
don't steal, don't steal. so how do we want to decide to go first? rock paper, scissors. - rock, paper you (laughs) yes, rock paper scissors. - all right, all right. - all right let's do it. i've been practicing my
rock paper scissors for this and practicing this. - i know that you were
family friendly channel. - i know you had it that up. - ready? - [both] rock, paper, scissors. - dang it.
- you go first. - all right, oh god. - here we go, three, two, one. - one down, we're almost done. i really should have grabbed the case last 'cause it's slowing me down. - okay, so while kyle is
shopping, i have a secret weapon. so micro center has a build your own pc configurator on their site. now i take advantage of that. i can see all the stock in the store. so if i find something that we missed while we were walking, i've got it. - i've got the gpu, computer we want, what are we going with? we're going with a ryzen,
they're all sevens. where are the fives? i thought there was a five in here. what are you? five, 3600x. for how much? for how much? it doesn't say the price is blocked out. awesome, awesome, you know what? we're gonna roll with it. we're just gonna roll with it. i think we're going to go to
the performance route now, we need storage. all right, i'm gonna go
cheap as possible, 500 gigs. all right, i think 500 is the move. - so i saw an i3,
that was really cheap. i think that's maybe what i go for. look at that, see, that's what i need the cheating right now. i'm literally just using
this configure it right now to do all my work for me. micro center also
are still running their promo where you can get not only
a free 32 gig micro sd card but also a 32 gig usb drive
completely free of charge and no purchase necessary. so what are you waiting for? check out the link in the description and head over to your local
friendly micro center today. - [matt] you got one minute. - okay, one minute, thank
you, $20 power supply, done. i gotta, i gotta make
my margins somewhere. hang out for the memory. - [matt] 30 seconds. - okay, okay, 30 seconds. where's the cheapest? what is the speed? - [matt] 15. - no, stop it. okay, here we go. how many more do i have? is that it? did i get everything? i think i got everything i'm done. (exhales sharply) oh my god. that was, that was a challenge, that was definitely challenging. - [ken] that's like
studying before the test, like the second before. - i know which has never done well for me. - yeah, that sounds good right here. - cool what we might want to do be like while we're at the video, - that is austin, austin
is looking at my parts. you cheater, austin i'm gonna kill you you come here.
- you can't catch me. i think i saw what he was doing. - if he wins, it doesn't count. and if i win, it was to a
great disadvantage on me. so i'm just that much better, than him. - what are you doing? - go away, what a cheater?
(air whooshing) - three, two, one, go. - all right let's go, okay let's go. 100 there. - [matt] is that what you wanna go for? - yep, that's what i wanna go for. now i grew up watching these things on tv. when you would run through the toy store and load up your car and
that was always my dream. it's the ability for us to
go into say a micro center and essentially do that
same thing is great. if only there was a fun element of it and not as stressful. oh no, i think i forgot my ram. where's my psu. we're going for it. wait, no, we're not we're
not, there'll be a mistake, it doesn't have enough pci. oh, no, i didn't think
about this one minute. - [matt] hey, one minute. - oh, okay okay okay. it's not here, it's not here. that'd be great, it
gives us just go around. oh, i need a cheap power supply. oh, wait here, 650 too much. why is it nothing between 430 and 650? - [matt] 30 seconds. - no, no (groans) fine, spending way too much money on my power supply.
definitely going to go for, i want the speed. i want the speed, yeah,
500 gig, there we go. what do i have? what do i have? (groans) - well, what do we have here? - oh, interesting. oh, okay, b365. - this is what i'm most worried about. is this, this memory kit i picked it not because of the price. but look at the back, it doesn't actually say a speed, it lists all the skus, 3000. so i have no idea if i got
a 4000 kit or a 3000 kit. - well, this could very
well be the end of me. - unlike that, i got the highest
quality g.skill ripjaws v that came in at $58. - oh, you were so much better
at casing the place than i was when we were doing that
run through oh my gosh. what about your power supply? - so power supply. i almost went for the 430 watt
that we were talking about. i literally put my hand on it. then i realized it doesn't
have the eight pens to run the 3060ti. so i panic bought a powerspec. - oh, you got one. is this gonna work? - obviously, it'll work. - wait, it has a four pin. oh, well wait, hold on. - cpu - for the gpu, you have no gpu. - oh god, this is horrible. you know, in my mind i was i was so rushed and so pressed for time. so the only thing i was
thinking in that moment was don't overspend don't spend too much. so i didn't even consider the fact that the unit might not have
the proper amount of cables or connectors to actually power the build. we can go to the register and find out what the final price totals are. - i'm, incredibly curious. - okay, so it was pretty close. - really? - yes, way close than i
thought it was gonna be. - okay.
- oh my god. - so kyle, you were 1075.
- okay. - so $1075. - yes, austin you were 1030. - oh shoot. - that is really close, that's
way closer than i thought. - let's head back to the office, let's go build some pcs. - you're on. mine will actually turn on
unlike yours so it's fine. - [matt] his will turn on,
it just won't have a gpu. - yeah, exactly. where's your integrated graphics
bro, how you gonna post huh? - it's all in your imagination. - that's what i thought. - okay, i'm gonna think
outside the box all right. (air whooshing) - all right, so we've gotten
back from micro center with our haul of pc components. now you may notice something
that wasn't here with us at the store, this agon
aoc 32 by 9 monitor. originally they offered
to give us two of these so we could each have one,
but we thought it'd be more hilarious if we both
game on the same monitor. - picture by picture time. - plus we probably couldn't fit two of these monitors in here anyway. - [ken] yeah, we're using this desk. (austin laughing) - i'm just going to
leave that right there. this is just this is gonna
be a constant reminder of my utter failure today. - [ken] are you looking for this. - ken, did you guys
really take pity on him? - is this
- well kind of, okay. - oh my gosh. - [ken] so, take that out. - okay, so i have this as
mine, but at what cost. - [ken] you are not allowed
to keep it in your case. (austin laughing) - all right. - [ken] you have to use
it as an external psu. - wait, wait does that
mean i can work with this. i was inside the case and
this goes out to the case. - wait, do i have to use this? - [ken] yes, and we'll give
that to you for free, to be fair - okay. - so dual power supplies.
- you can use it, yes. - i can work with that, you know what? this is only gonna add
to my creativity score. - oh, creative is definitely the word i have in mind right now. i can mess with it. so i've gotten my meshify c
which i am opening up. i think these are both gonna
be pretty simple builds really. - oh yeah. i mean we're only getting the
basic, we only got the basic most basic components
to get a booting system. look at how pretty my motherboard is. - oh wait, wait, wait no, i've got mine. - it's beautiful. - i'm sure mine will be okay. i just noticed it's my micro atx. (austin laughing) it's fine it's fine it's good. it was more, more room for
breathability and stuff more. - [ken] more room for your power supply. - there you go. - so i'm really happy
about this i5-9400. - are you? - i am. - it really helps you with the price - exactly.
- the budgeting - and like seriously, i mean the i5 is
not gonna hold me back in any way real way. - no, probably not. - like how much cheaper- - not the 360, 3060ti. - yeah, exactly.
- i just, oh wow. so i thought this was a 16
gig kit, it's a 32 gig kit, which the other thing i wasn't sure about with
this kit is, the memory speed because they're all listed
on the back of the box which is very unhelpful, it's 3200. - okay,
- perfect. perfect for 3000 series,
that was the sweet spot. - [ken] how much did you spend again? - this was 120, but 32 gigs - not bad.
- not bad at all. - it's not bad because i got six. no, i got eight gigs for about half that price with no rgb. - right? - yeah i do have a sliver of
rgb on the sticks as well. - all right so getting ready
to install my power supply, i'm actually making pretty
decent progress here. i've got my board already. oh, wow okay well you've already
got your board installed. - yup.
- but i think- - [ken] here's what happens
when we bring a professional into the studio. - but the real question here, how are you gonna do
the dual power supplies right now? - so my thought was to try to find a way to strap the big unit
to the back of the case. - look do it real literally. - or it could strap it to the side. - right here, right on top. - i mean, that's the bold
shameless move right? i mean, i could do that. - i definitely have never
done that before ever. - or maybe even on the,
something tells me you have. - scrapyard wars. - oh yes, that's right how could i forget? so here's what i'm thinking
now that i relocated the top exhaust fan,
there's no fan here anymore. i could put the psu up here, fan facing up and it doesn't look all that bad especially if like, ken you were saying, we're going for like a cyberpunk theme or something like that. i do have the cables coming out the back, it looks a bit industrial and get this, on the front you now have an
accessible kill switch button. take that austin, how
do you like them apples? - i'm pretty handy, huh,
that actually is pretty... i'm curious why you chose to
go for the nicer power supply. oh actually, i know you wanted
to hide the cheap one, right? - exactly.
- okay fair enough. - it's kind of a eyesore. - you're just flexing
your 80 plus gold i see. - i'm gonna take the sticker off. (energetic music) (air whooshing) - all right, so for broke versus pro which is quickly turned
into not really broke versus slightly less, not really broke, our systems are complete. you know, my pc is not, the masterpiece is not the mona lisa
or the michael angelo, of gaming pcs, but you know what? that's fine because all that matters that i think got a good shot at it right? i already know i won value, right? that's one category, i
can check that off right. josh make a graphic, i check that one off, it's gone, right, austin has that one. next creativity, ah, but you know what? is it really creative
to put a power supply on top of a case? i don't think so. in fact, i would say that's counterfeit. i would say that's a stolen idea that you need to pay royalties
'cause i came up with that. so ken, do you want to
weigh in a little bit on the creativity side of things? - [ken] i am surprised
at how good yours looks. - oh thank you.
- i am too, actually. - [ken] yeah, i thought it
was gonna look way worse. - but you know why it looks so good, is because you can hardly see it (laughs) - [ken] well, that's part of it. his cables actually came
out pretty nice though for them being green and his color scheme being a little mixed.
- definitely. - [ken] i am more impressed
about your ability to make that power apply on
the top look really good. - it does kind of look awesome doesn't it? - it's very clean. - [ken] i mean, it matches
all of the angles of the pc which is just square.
- very true. - [ken] i think style
points would go to kyle. i like your cpu choice
though, considering the value. i'm super impressed by that. we'll see what it's like in the benchmark. - yeah, so we're gonna
run through three tests. we're gonna do a time spy benchmark. we're going to do a cyberpunk benchmark and then we're gonna do the real test, cs:go head to head. - how good are you at cs:go? - i'm not great at cs:go,
but you've got a ryzen 5. i've got a core i5. you also got 32 gigs
of ram, i've got eight. so you should have this beat. so we have obviously identical displays we have 1440p at 120 fps. we have the same logitech
mouse and keyboard combination. everything else should be identical. are you ready? - yes, sir. - three, two, one launch. - that was perfectly in sync. - that was very, very, oh no
look at that 31 versus 37. - oh wow. - that's where you're
getting the, yeah, you got you got me on this one. - the overall score is
gonna blow you away. - oh, you toasted me on that one. 10,773 versus 9,802 for my system. - that's a pretty good game. cpu score, 74 versus 53. that's where you got
me, that's a big slap. - yeah. - so as we're recording this video today cyberpunk has just come out right? so i don't think kyle or i have had any time to develop benchmarks for it or anything like that. so going into it, i don't
really know what to expect. i know it's a very demanding game and so we're gonna do a really
informal cyberpunk benchmark, which is to stare at the same thing, point in the environment. so let's look up at, let's put it right in the middle of the white on,
oh, you got a different sign. oh, all right something that's constant. but what if we stand like right let's look, look close to these dudes closer as this is about as close. - yeah. - where's your white dots? - right out there, huh? - yep yep yep okay. so right now i'm 49, 50 and you're at 50. that is like a small, - it's pretty negligible right? - i think we can call this a draw. - i think we can, i think you're right. - so does it come down to cs:go? - it does. - let's go boys, let's go. - let's cs:go. hey my hope today was that
i would clench the win before we got to cs:go so that it would matter that i would lose. but as long as i look calm,
polished, distinguished and like a complete
gentleman on the outside, - we have to use the same gun as well. - sure. - right that makes sense. - yeah, i gotta win right? what do you think, the little gazelle is afraid of the lion? yeah yeah the gazelle
is afraid of the lion. could a hundred gazelles
attack that lion and win, no, but if the lion thinks he might lose then you might lose the
thread on this analogy. - [ken] what are you
talking about dude? (laughs) - it's been a long day
okay, been a long day. okay so, oh, we have 10 minutes. so let's just go for it. - okay okay let's go all right. - oh oh, nicely done nicely done. - in the head.
- all right all right. we're good we're good. - oh shoot.
- oh, there we go. - dang it.
- all right, one on one. - for some reason i thought
you were gonna spot it ct spawn but i forgot that
that's not how it works. i got myself in a corner here. - okay oh, nice. - we've got about six and a
half minutes on the clock. i've got to pick it up a little bit. - i don't know if i fall
too much farther behind, it might be over for me.
- come on. - there we go all right
four three, four three. - you're still in the game. - i'm still in it. two minutes, can i catch up? i don't think i can i
say, i say i got you. i got you i got you. - yes that so clutch, (laughs)
you got a minute left. where we at? - you got all your done man. - 10, six,
- 10, six. - there's no way you could. alright, well played. - gonna call it. - can't believe it. this is my show, "broke versus pro" it's on the austin evans channel. i'm the hero of the story. you know what i should do, i just have josh, josh,
when you're editing this, can you just edit it now? can we just cut the video now? and then can we fast forward
to a montage of how i won? just making it look like i
won josh, you can do that. thank you. - this was definitely
an awesome experience. i had a total blast today
from start to finish. there was never a dull moment and it was adrenaline
pumping the whole way through. austin's an okay guy, i guess and i guess i should start
watching more episodes of broke versus poor oh no, pro broke. - you don't have to it's fine. (laughter) - why can i not get that?