boston, massachusetts is one of the oldest cities 
in america, founded in 1630, more than a few years   before the advent of modern motor vehicles. 
in the 1980s, traffic in downtown boston was   nearly unbearable from the tangled streets laid 
out centuries ago, so city planners and state   transportation officials came up with what they 
considered a grand plan. they would reroute the   elevated highway and so-called "central artery" 
of interstate 93 into a tunnel below downtown   and extend interstate 90 across the inner harbor 
to the airport in another tunnel. construction   started in 1991, and the project was given the 
nickname big dig because of the sheer volume   of excavation required for the two tunnels. in 
terms of cost and complexity, the big dig was   on the scale of the panama canal or hoover dam. it 
featured some of the most innovative construction   methods of the time, and after 16 years of work, 
the project was finished on time and under budget... actually, no. you might know 
this story already. of course,   the big dig did make a big dent 
in the traffic problem in boston,   but that came at a staggering price. the project 
was plagued with problems, design flaws, fraud,   delays, and of course, cost overruns. when 
construction finished in 2007, the final   price tag was around fifteen-billion dollars, 
about twice the original cost that was expected. it's a tale as old as civil engineering: a 
megaproject is sold to the public as a grand   solution to a serious problem. planning 
and design get underway, permits issued,   budgets allocated (that took a lot longer 
than we expect), construction starts,   and then there are more problems! work is delayed, 
expenses balloon, and when all the dust settles,   it's a lot less clear whether the project's 
benefits were really worth the costs. not many jobs go quite as awry as the big dig, 
but it's not just megaprojects that suffer   from our inability to accurately anticipate 
the expense and complexity of construction.   from tiny home renovations to the largest 
infrastructure projects in the world,   it seems like we almost always underestimate 
the costs. and the consequences of missing   the mark can be enormous. well, i've been 
one of those engineers trying to come up   with cost estimates for major infrastructure 
projects, and i've been one of those engineers   who underestimated. so i have a few ideas about 
why we so consistently get this wrong. i'm grady,   and this is practical engineering. 
in today's episode, we're trying to   answer the question of why construction 
projects always seem to go over budget. major projects are often paid for with public 
funds, so it's important (it's vital) that   the benefits we derive from them are worth 
the costs. and the only way we can judge if   any project is worth starting is to have an 
accurate estimate of the costs first. and,   of course, this is not just a problem with 
civil infrastructure but with all types of   large projects paid for with public funds like 
space programs and defense projects. they have   to be justified. most projects have benefits, 
and you do get those benefits at the end,   no matter the cost, but if they aren't worth 
the costs, you'd rather not go through with   the project at all. this is especially true 
for projects like streets and highways where   not only costs get underestimated but the 
benefits are often overestimated too. check   out my friend jason's videos on the not just 
bikes channel for more information about that. one of the biggest issues we face with 
large projects is a chicken-and-egg problem:   you don't know how much they'll cost until you 
go through the design, but you don't want to go   through a lengthy and expensive design phase 
and end up with a project you can't afford.   budgeting and securing funds are usually slow 
processes, plus you need to know if the job   is even worth doing in the first place, so you 
can't just wait until the bids come in to find   out how much a project is going to cost. you need 
to know sooner than that, which usually means you   need your design professional to estimate 
the cost. for an infrastructure project,   that's the engineer, and engineers are 
notoriously not good at estimating costs. we don't know which contractors are busy and which 
ones aren't, what machinery they have, or whether   or not they'll bid on your project. we don't know 
the sales reps at the concrete and asphalt plants   or keep track of the prices of steel, aggregates, 
pumps, and piping. we don't have a professional   network full of subcontractors, material 
suppliers, and equipment rental companies.   we didn't study construction cost estimating 
in college, and most of us have never built   anything in the field. and the people who have, 
those who are most qualified to do this job   (the contractors that will actually bid on the 
project), usually aren't allowed to participate   in the cost estimating during design because it 
would spoil the fair and transparent procurement   process. it would give one or more contractors 
a leg up on their competition. because, (here's   a little secret), they aren't always so good at 
estimating costs either. when those bids come in,   there's often a huge spread between them, meaning 
one of the most significant uncertainties of an   entire project is sometimes simply which 
contractors will decide to bid the job. of course, there are some alternatives 
to the normal bidding process that many   infrastructure projects use, but even those 
often require early cost estimates from   people who are necessarily limited in their 
ability to develop cost estimates. in fact,   the industry term for the cost estimate that 
comes from an engineer is the opinion of probable   construction cost or opcc. take a look at that 
mouthful. two qualifiers: opinion of probable   construction cost. and still, agencies and 
municipalities and dots will write down that   number on a folded piece of paper, slide it 
surreptitiously to their governing board,   and whisper, "this is how much we need." and the 
next day, the journalists who were at the meeting   will publish that number in the news. and now, 
every future prediction of the project's cost   will be compared to that opcc, no matter how early 
in the process it was developed. all this to say:   estimating the cost of a construction project is 
hard work (especially early on in the project's   life cycle), it takes highly skilled 
and knowledgeable people to do well,   and even then, it is a process absolutely 
chock full of uncertainties and risks that   are really hard to distill down to a single 
dollar value. but construction cost estimates   aren't just imprecise. if that were true, you 
would expect us to overestimate as frequently   as we come under. and we know that's not 
the case. why is it always an underestimate? one hint is in the fact that you often just 
hear a single number for a project's cost.   what's included in that 15 billion dollars for 
the big dig or the cost estimate you see for a   major project in the news? the truth is that it's 
different for every job, to the point where it's   almost a meaningless number without further 
context. large infrastructure projects are   essentially huge collaborations between public 
and private organizations that span years,   and sometimes decades, between planning, design, 
permitting, and construction. land acquisition,   surveying, environmental permitting, 
legal services, engineering and design,   and the administration to oversee that whole 
process all cost money (sometimes a lot of money),   and that's before construction even starts. 
so if you think that bid from a contractor   is the project's cost, you're missing out 
on a lot. and if those pre-construction   costs get included in one estimate (for 
example, the final tally of a project's   cost) when they weren't included in an earlier 
estimate (like the engineer's opcc), of course   it's going to look like the project came in over 
budget. you're not comparing apples to apples. another reason for underestimation is inflation. 
the main method we use to estimate how much   something will cost is to look back at similar 
examples. we consult the ghost of construction   past to try and predict the future. it's not 
unusual to look at the costs of projects 5   or 10 years old to try and guess the cost of a 
different project 5 or 10 years into the future.   the problem with that is dollars or euros or 
yen or pounds sterling don't buy the same amount   of stuff in the future that they did in the 
past. the cost of anything is a moving target,   and it's usually moving up. that's okay, you 
might think, just adjust the costs. there are   even inflation calculators online, but they 
normally use the consumer price index. that's   a figure that tracks the cost of a basket of 
goods and services that a typical individual   might buy. prices vary widely across locations 
and types of goods, so the idea is that,   if you monitor the dollar price of groceries, 
electricity, clothing, gasoline, et cetera, it   can give you a broad measure of how the value of 
money changes over time for a normal consumer.   but there's not much concrete and earthwork in 
that basket of goods, which means the consumer   price index is generally not a good measure 
of how construction costs change over time. there are a few price indices that track baskets 
full of labor hours, structural steel, lumber,   and cement and even separate those baskets by 
major city. you have to pay to get access to the   data, and they can help a wayward engineer adjust 
past construction costs to the present day. but   they can't help them predict how those prices will 
change in the future. and that's important because   large infrastructure projects take a long time to 
design, permit, and fund. so if there are 2 or 5   or 10 years between when an estimate was prepared 
and when it's being used or even discussed,   there's a good chance that it's an underestimate 
simply because the value of money itself slid   out from underneath it. cost estimates have an 
expiration date, a concept that gets overlooked,   sometimes even by owners, and often 
by the media who report these numbers. that slow time scale for construction projects 
creates another way that costs go up. designing   a big project is just like navigating a big ship. 
if things start moving in the wrong direction,   the time to fix it is already past. so, we don't 
do it all in one fell swoop. you have to have a   bunch of milestones where you stop and check 
the progress because going back to the drawing   board is time-consuming and expensive. the issue 
with this process is that, the further a project   matures, the more people get involved. once 
you've established feasibility, the bosses and   boss' bosses start to weigh in with their advice. 
once you have a preliminary design, it gets sent   out to regulators and permitting agencies. once 
you have some nice renderings, you hold public   meetings and get citizens involved. and with 
all those cooks in the kitchen participating   in the design process, does the project get 
simpler and more straightforward? almost never. there is no perfect project that makes everyone 
happy. so, you end up making compromises and   adding features to allay all the new stakeholders. 
this may seem like a bunch of added red tape,   but it really is a good thing in a lot of ways. 
there was a time when major infrastructure   projects didn't consider all the stakeholders or 
the environmental impacts, and, sure, the projects   probably got done more quickly, efficiently, 
and at a lower cost (on the surface). but the   reality is that those costs just got externalized 
to populations of people who had little say in the   process and to the environment. i'm not saying 
we're perfect now, but we're definitely more   thoughtful about the impacts projects have, and 
we pay the cost for those impacts more directly   than we used to. but, often, those costs weren't 
anticipated during the planning phase. they show   up later in design when more people get involved, 
and that drives the total project cost upward. and the thing about project maturity is 
that, even when you get to the end of design,   the project still only exists as a set of drawings 
on pieces of paper. there are still so many   unanswered questions, the biggest one being, "how 
do we build this?" large projects are complex,   putting them at the mercy of all kinds of 
problems that can crop up during construction:   material shortages, shipping delays, workforce 
issues, bad weather, and more. then there are   the unexpected site conditions. an engineer can 
only reasonably foresee so much while coming up   with a design on paper or in computer software. 
a good example is the soil or rock conditions at   the site. during design, we drill boreholes, take 
samples, and do tests on those samples. that lets   you characterize the soil or rock in one tiny 
spot. of course, you can drill lots of holes,   but those holes and those tests are expensive, 
so it's a guessing game trying to balance the   cost of site investigations with the consequences 
of mischaracterizing the underlying materials. if the engineer guesses wrong, it can mean that 
excavation is more time-consuming because the   contractor expected soil and got rock, or that 
backfill material has to be brought in from   somewhere else because the stuff on site isn't 
any good. in the worst cases, projects have to   be redesigned when the conditions at the site 
turn out to be different from what was assumed   in the design phase. and that's just the dirt. 
while it might be great for science or history,   imagine the cost of your project if you find 
historical artifacts or endangered species that   you didn't know were there. it's a simple 
reality that there is a lot of uncertainty   moving from design into construction, and there 
just aren't that many unexpected conditions that   make a construction project simpler and cheaper. 
of course, opportunities for cost savings do crop   up from time to time, but usually those 
savings get pocketed by the contractor,   not passed along to the owner. that's 
intentional that the contractor takes   on a lot of risk both good and bad. but 
you can't saddle a contractor with all   the risk that something unexpected won't 
show up, and nearly all large contracts   have change orders during construction 
that drive up the cost of the project. of course, you can't ignore the more nefarious 
ways that costs go up. any industry that has   a lot of money moving around has to contend with 
fraud, and you don't have to look too hard through   the news to find examples of greed. and there 
are also plenty of examples where politicians   or officials misrepresented the expected cost 
of a project to avoid public scrutiny. but,   in most cases, the reasons for going over budget 
are much less villainous and far more human:   we are just too darned optimistic and 
short-sighted. but that's not a good excuse,   and i think there's a lot of room 
for improvement here. so what do   we do? how can we get the actual 
project cost closer to the budget? of course, we can bring construction costs 
down, but that's a whole discussion in and of   itself. maybe we'll table that topic for a future 
video. i can hear people screaming at the monitor   to just add contingency to the budget. anyone 
who's ever guesstimated the cost of anything   knows to tack on an extra 15% for caution. of 
course, contingency is a tool in the toolbox,   but even that has to be justified. we know that 
the final cost of a project can be more than   twice the preliminary estimates, but if you tell a 
client you added 100% to your estimate for safety,   most likely, you're going to get fired. no one 
wants to believe there's that much uncertainty,   and also it might not be true. you can't 
set aside a billion dollars for a project   that costs a hundred thousand, give or take 
a few k. sure, you'll come in under budget,   but you just tied up a huge pile of 
public resources for no good reason. it turns out a lot of the research suggests 
spending more money during the planning and   design phases. of course the paper-pushing 
engineer is saying to spend more money on   engineering. but really, construction is where the 
majority of project costs are, so the theory is   that if you can reduce the risks and uncertainty 
going into construction by spending a little more   time in the preconstruction phases, you'll 
often earn more than that cost back in the   long run. take three to five percent of those 
dollars you would have spent on construction,   and spend them on risk assessment and contingency 
planning, and see if it doesn't pay off. honestly,   even most contractors would prefer this. 
i know their insurance carriers would. but, all that considered, i think the biggest 
place for improvement in budgeting for large   construction projects is simply how we 
communicate those budgets. a single dollar   number is easy to understand and easy to compare 
to some future single dollar number, but really   it's meaningless without more context about when 
it was developed and what it includes. because,   what is a budget anyway? it's a way to manage 
expectations. and if you're early on in the   planning or design phase of a big project, you 
should expect the unexpected. there's uncertainty   in big projects, and it should be okay to admit 
that to the public. it should be okay to say,   we think it's going to cost x, but there are 
still a lot of unknowns. and we think the   project will still be worth doing, even if the 
cost climbs up to y. and if it goes beyond that,   we're not just going to keep pressing on. 
we're going to regroup and find a way to   make the benefits worth the costs. there is 
a ton of room to improve how we develop cost   estimates for projects, but there's tons of room 
to improve how we communicate about them too. let me show you another example of how costs 
aren't always as simple as they seem. seventy   dollars sounds pretty steep for a new razor, 
but if you do the math for the costs over time,   at least for my situation, it's actually cheaper 
than using my old standby, the multi-blade   cartridge. this video's sponsor, henson shaving, 
reached out to me last year and asked to sponsor   a video. i said, let me try the razor first, and 
then i'll decide. that was six months ago, and i   truly and honestly have not used my old razor once 
since then. hey, is a new razor going to change   your life? probably not. but, shaving's a chore. 
and using a precision tool, at least to me,   makes it feel less like a chore, and, instead a 
part of my day that i actually look forward to. i had never used a safety razor and figured they 
were old school. not true - these are made in an   aerospace machine shop that pivoted during the 
pandemic slowdown. i also figured it would have   a learning curve. also not true. in fact, i don't 
think i could ever go back to a cartridge razor   with their flexible blades and difficulty in 
rinsing out. if you've ever been on the market   for a tool and splurged on the nicest brand, this 
is that, except, it's not really a splurge. the   blades for the henson razor are so cheap you could 
probably put a new one on for every shave and   still save money. and in fact, if you buy a razor, 
put the 100-pack of blades in your cart, and use   my code practicalengineering at checkout, those 
blades are on me. 100 blades is going to last you   a long time. there's no subscription service or a 
monthly fee, it's just a cool razor that i really   like and i think you will too. again, use my code 
practicalengineering at checkout to support the   channel and get 100-blades on me. thank you 
for watching and let me know what you think.