- the iphone 12 is here and
you should save your money. here we have our best look
at the entire 2020 lineup of iphones starting with the
iphone 12, the iphone 12 pro as well as the little
brother, the iphone 12 mini and the big chunky itself
the iphone 12 pro max. so let's get some of the negatives out of the way straight off the bat, while yes we do have 5g across the lineup of iphones this year, there
is no promotion display, there's no 120hz,
everything is running at 60, just like it has been with every
iphone since the beginning. look, i'll agree 90, 120 fps
is really the move, right? is this a deal breaker? i would say no, but when you look at phones
that are significantly cheaper that have it, it does mean
not quite as straightforward as you might think. however, if you wanna
look on the flip side, all the iphones now have
very similar screens. so unlike previously, where the iphone xr, and the iphone 11 used
a much lower resolution and honestly not as good ips display as opposed to the old led
on the higher end iphones, now it is pretty much
uniform across the board, you're getting there,
super retina xdr display with high resolution and
importantly that old led color and contrast, no matter
which iphone 12, you pick up, and especially considering
that the iphone 12 mini starts at $699, that starts to
look a little impressive, so no matter which iphone you pick up from the lowly iphone 12 mini
all the way up to the pro max, you will have 5g standard,
now i say 5g standard, there are some differences,
but it's more based on region, and then the actual phone you're using. so here in united states, you'll
be able to get the iphones with the millimeter wave 5g built in, and the verizon ceo was on stage and it certain points it
felt like a verizon ad with the amount of times
i heard verizon 5g, verizon 5g, verizon 5g. then no matter where you are though, that 5g should be enabled
at least on the iphone, so as carriers light it
up more and more often around the world, it will support it. now i will say just from
personal experience 5g if you're looking for
upgrade or reason to upgrade, isn't really enough in
my opinion right now. generally speaking for me
on the t-mobile 5g network, i've seen speeds that are
like 20, 30% faster than 4g, which is fine, and of course these iphones will support an lte network and they even have some
things built into the software and the firmware to actually give you like the speeds when you need it, so it can detect when you're
trying to download a game or something that's very intensive. it will jump onto the 5g network, but as soon as you're just,
you know, refreshing twitter or whatever, it will go
down to the 4g network in the background so you
can save some battery. i do think that's one of
the big considerations for the iphone this year. - [ken] but you could charge it. - you can charge it better with magsafe, so yes my friends, the
wonderful technology that kept ken bollito
from crashing his laptop into the floor is returned. - [ken] it happened. - it definitely happened, it did happen we have video footage, has
returned on the iphone. now it's not at least standard
safe from the old mac books, so instead on the back the phone, there's a little magnet ring around where you are wirelessly charge, but instead of just purely
using it for chargers, and of course you can buy
wireless chargers that will work, but you can also use it with
a wide range of accessories. so you can snap a case on
the back of your iphone, you can use things like a little wallet and you can even do a
little cover display, but if you wanna upgrade to
some of their magsafe chargers, you can do things like, i
don't know, air power your way out of the dark past. you can use the apple watch and the iphone together on a charger. - [ken] it is portable though. - it is portable, but they were very clear
not mention air power in any way whatsoever. now beyond the speeds and feeds, there are some major new
features with these iphones as this is the first time in years that we've gotten an all new design. look at this brand new design,
completely revolutionary, never been used before,
suddenly not from the iphone 5. now all jokes aside
actually do really like the more squared off
look of the iphone 12, and that comes across to
the iphone 12 pro as well, so the materials are different,
the standard iphone 12 and the mini have aluminum,
whereas the 12 pro and the pro max have a stainless steel, same as what we've seen in
the past, or regardless, you're going to get
that much flatter design that also enables them to
stretch the screens out without enabling too much of
a bigger overall footprint. now beyond just a pure looks,
there are a ton of new colors. so on the iphone 12, you
get black, white, red, green and blue, and on the 12 pro
you get silver, graphite, gold and what my personal
favorite is the pacific blue. which one are you doing? - [ken] blue. - blue is the move, right? i mean, the green was cool last year, the blue. one thing i do think is worth pointing out is the ceramic shield, aka the jerry rig everything,
please test our phone feature. so they've partnered with corning, and in fact, i believe apple
is actually an investor in corning who made gorilla glass that are on pretty much
all smartphones right now, and this is supposedly the most strongest, most powerful glass on an iphone ever, or any smartphone ever,
they've called out specifically it is four times better with
drop performance, which okay. - [ken] are we gonna test it? - no zach's gonna give it a deeper groove in level nine hopefully. - [ken] can we drop it? - no, of course everyone
knows that when you upgrade to the pro phone you get
pro features like usb-c or a usb-c charger, okay, so here's the deal, right?
the iphone is this year are still on lightning, however
they now come with a usb-c to lightning charger in the box and by charger i mean cable,
there's no charger in the box or no headphones, but
don't expect the iphones to be cheaper this year
as i'll get two here in just a little bit. this is, i think, more of a
play for the environmental side of things and near probably
gonna wanna buy one of those new maxi chargers anyway, right? that's surprising no
one, the apple a14 chip inside these new iphones
is the most powerful and a smartphone yet, which i would normally
make fun of this hyperbole, but i mean the a13 is still
the most powerful chip in a smartphone and now
there's a new version. so it's built on the
five nanometer process, i believe actually the very
first chip that's on sale, that has been using that in that process, i don't actually expect a huge
amount of extra performance, so it has 40% more transistors, but it is still a six core
cpu with a four core gpu, and they've talked a lot about like the neural engine and stuff, what they didn't do is talk a lot about the
performance improvements. i, based on what we've
heard on the ipad there, don't have huge expectations. i think this is gonna be a
fairly small bump in performance, but i mean it was already fast, so it'll just be a little bit faster. so one of the things that i think is actually the biggest upgrade on, well, any phone every year,
but specifically on the iphones this year are the cameras. so let's get the basics
out of the way first. the iphone 12 and 12 mini have
two cameras just like before, you have an ultra wide
and a wide angle camera, on the pro and the pro max,
you have three cameras, a telephoto, a standard wide
and an ultra wide, right? so the general layout is the same you don't get any extra cameras this year, but those cameras, those
lenses and those sensors are going to be different. so starting out with the iphone
12, this has a ultra wide which if not the same as very similar to what we got last year, which is a little bit disappointing because let's be real, the
ultra wide on the iphone is kind of fine, but it is not as good as even something like the z flip, which is a much older design. what we do get this
year is an upgraded lens for the main camera, so
it is now at 1.6 aperture. so it lets more light in, and it also has a seven element lens, which should theoretically
give you more sharpness, so specifically they called
out now 27% improvement in low-light, and the fact
that night mode now works on the ultra wide and the
front facing and everything, but they were also talking a lot about the actual video quality. so on the 12 pro it has
slightly better video and we'll get to that in a second, but it apparently allows
you to have better low-light across the board through the better lens, as well as the better processing. now let's move on to the iphone 12 pro. same ultra-wide camera, no difference, same main camera, no difference, so you have those improvements
but it's the same, and you do get a telephoto camera, which as far as i can tell is very similar if not identical to the
telephoto on last generation. the ultra-wide camera on
the iphone 12 pro max, that is such a mouthful,
does look to be the same, however, the main wide angle
sensor is now much larger, so they specifically say
that it is 47% larger, which is not as surprise
because a lot of other phones these days have started
incorporating much larger sensors, when you look at something
like the galaxy s20 ultra, i mean, that was a massive, massive sensor that was almost the same size
as a lot of compact cameras. now it's interesting
because they've done this only on the 12 pro max, so if you want the better image quality, the better low-light
performance, the better video, the better everything really is going to be on the 12
pro max and not the 12 pro, which is strange because
typically the difference between the sizes was just
the size of the screens, there was actually no spec
difference or anything like that. but this time around, if
you want the best camera or an iphone, you go all the way up to the big chunky himself. the telephoto is also
different on the 12 pro max. so instead of a 2x lens, it's a 2.5x zoom. basically the telephoto should
be slightly more zoomed in, which is great, just fine i
think it's a decent compromise. but the main difference is
going to be in that main sensor. there is something that is only exclusive to the pro and the pro max and is not included on
the peasant iphones, is the higher quality video modes. so still 4k 60 across the board, it's still going to look
good no matter what. but the pro models have 10 bit recording, which is really nice actually, that's something that
you typically wanna see on fairly high end cameras, and you also have dolby vision built in. now, if you talk to wes, he will give you a very long dissertation on why dolby vision is not as standard, but really merely a lot
or a fire finishing, whatever it, all it matters
is that you have dolby vision which will allow you to
get more dynamic range and it will be able to be edited directly inside the photos app,
does that matter to you? probably not, i think 10
bit is nice and the ability to have more dynamic
range and a better image out of the iphone is good, but i mean, unless you're
gonna be car grading, your iphone footage is probably not going to be a huge difference. new bunch of other things included on the iphone 12 pro
line, so there's lidar which is nice for things like ar, but specifically for
things like auto-focus, that's really cool, you
do have sensor shifts, but specifically only on the pro max, so again, taking from the
higher end cameras of the world, like these sony a7s iii, the
actual sensor will be able to move to stabilize your image. there's also apple proraw. now this is a little bit
more of a pro feature, which can fair these
phones there food pros. but essentially what this
allows you to do is instead of saving a raw file and doing all of your own edits yourself, it will bake in some of the
stuff that they're doing with all of the computational photography, but a way that you can
still completely adjust it. so it's going to only be able to be edited inside the photos app, and apparently some third-party
photo editing applications, i assume photoshop at some point, but if you wanna get the
absolute best image quality out of the iphone, you
really wanna get in there and sort of tweak everything. the proraw format is nice,
right? because essentially the raw image straight
off the sensor is fine, but so much of what makes
the image look great is all the processing that they do, and you know, obviously
that's being done pretty much in an instant, but the fact that they can give you all that processing, but you also still have
the full flexibility to tune the image
however you want is nice, but again, that is a
pro and pro max feature. so say you want to get your hands on some of these brand new iphone. so they're going on sale
at two different dates. so they're, pre-orders is
this friday for the iphone 12 and the iphone 12 pro, and they will be going
on sale next friday, the 23rd of october. however, if you want to
get the iphone 12 mini, which is what i'm gonna do, or the iphone big chunky edition, that will be going on sale next month. so they will be on sale on
november 13th with pre-orders on the sixth, aka, some of that iphones are coming out right around ps5 and x-box, which means i'm not
going to sleep that week. pricing is pretty straight forward, $699 for the iphone 12 mini,
$799 for the iphone 12, $999 for the iphone 12 pro and $1099 for the iphone 12 pro max, obviously more if you
wanna upgrade the storage, so i'm very curious,
do you think the iphone is worth it this year? and if so, which of the
iphones is actually best? i will say for me, it really comes down to the iphone big chunky
(chuckles) and the iphone 12 mini. the little chunk is some might say, i think i'm ready (chuckles). i'm gonna stick with it,
i'm gonna stick with it. i think the iphone 12 mini is the phone that i'm going to switch to. i like a smaller device and the compromises
really aren't that heavy. the pro max is a great looking
phone, if you wanna carry around the big chunk is
in your pocket, i'm good.