hello everyone and welcome! this is the rolls-royce ghost, but it's not just any ghost because this ghost was built for millennials. let me show you the interior witness the rolls-royce ghost black badge. now i know what you're wondering how on earth is millennials supposed to be able to afford a $415,000 car that's the price as equipped. we're looking at for this ghost right here and as a millennial. i don't have all the answers. oh, sorry got distracted. here's something that rolls-royce says about the car, and i hate to read directly from their press kit but hear me out you need to listen to this because i think it provides some context to what's going on with this wild interior directly from a rolls-royce press kit: 'black badge is an attitude to life an aspect of the rolls-royce brand that appeals to those people who are elusive and defiant the risk takers and disruptors who break the rules and laugh in the face of convention cars for a group of young driven self-made people that will make a bold and edgy lifestyle statement about their lives.' hmm sorry, just trying to keep my lunch in, but i have to say it's worked. i mean i love this interior yes it's blue and it's in your face, and it's wild but i think that's cool the exterior is all blacked out i guess that's what millennials want kind of wish gray was kind of more in but you know i'll take what i can get that was a joke about my hair, so what makes this car so extraordinarily expensive well i kind of want to walk through some of the cool features that are going on in here there's an umbrella tucked inside the door and the umbrella is spring-loaded so you push this button and it pops the handle out the perfect amount so you can grip the entire handle and remove the umbrella amazing you've got massage chairs not just for the front, but for the back so all four seats you can choose to a massage your glutes. i'm not sure what you were hoping to watch in this video, but right now. you're watching me enjoy 1,400 dollars worth of lamb's wool foot mats that that is nice quite soft quite luxurious very nice now i imagine that footage may have built up your appetite and no worries rolls has got you covered with these $3,325 picnic tables integrated into the front seats so you can enjoy some food at your leisure back here now no meal would be complete without a beverage so if you dig deep enough right there, you've got your cup holder and if you keep on heading back eventually you reach a cooler back here so you've got some space store some beverages and have yourself a nice little meal back here while your driver escorts you to your destination so you finished your meal, and now you're pretty sleepy i get it life is hard so go ahead and bring the seat forward there we are bring it back. ah, yes there you are so you can take your nice little nap look up at the night stars literally and fall asleep sweet dreams $5,200, and you no longer have to go outside to see the stars but say you're not sleepy well rolls thought about you too and for a cool $7,700 you've got this sweet rear theater configuration, okay, so you're wondering you know like what are some options they'll just throw in for free. maybe these these two black rrs there on the headrest. well, no i'm sorry that's 1,200 bucks, so what do we have under the hood? surely part of the cost this is a 6.6l twin-turbocharged v-12 603 hp and because this is the black badge a little bit more torque 620 lb.ft from just 1500 rpm this thing definitely can move and of course we have to test out rolls-royce famous trick with this blacked-out spirit of ecstasy, so i'm just gonna kind of try and steal it oh oh, uh, maybe this one doesn't do it. i guess i didn't pay enough money. oh! there it goes and this black paint you're looking at $10,650 another thing that's interesting is these doors can lock in place at any angle pretty neat you know if you're in a tight space and you can only open in a certain amount i can just lock it right there, and then you can climb on out now what makes it all worth it hidden away in the trunk? is the official rolls-royce, ten millimeter wrench you'll never lose your 10 millimeter again actually fun fact all rolls-royce vehicles can be completely assembled and disassembled using just a 10 millimeter wrench that's not a real fact. now rolls says this is made for young edgy self-made individuals so i'm putting my selves in the shoe of a potential buyer, and i'm just going to imagine that i own a tech startup let's say i develop autonomous cars they're not done yet so i ride in the back of a rolls and my driver johann takes me around so i'm just gonna go ahead and wait here for johann to go ahead and pick me up it seems my tech startup is not quite as successful as i was hoping johann is not around. i guess i'm going to have to drive so what is it like to drive? well if you're asking that question then you're probably not in the market for a rolls because if you were you just want to know what it's like in the backseat, but if you do want to go fast wow! yeah, it's got plenty of torque, oh man we just hit a big bug and blew it up all over the windshield gross speaking of the windshield that is one part that is quite confusing how to i turn the windshield oh gosh, it's washing the front headlights as well. i turn the wow this is beautiful most add video ever this and people climbing i turn the windshield wipers on earlier today and i could not figure out how to get them off eventually they did turn off but basically, it's all done, there's not a set location, it's all done through motions. up here we go i think that's off so anyways what's this thing like to drive? well, you know in a lot of ways it's numb, and you kind of expect that right like it's a rolls royce it's supposed to be compliant. it's supposed to be smooth quiet comfortable the epitome of luxury, and that's really what it is so from a driver's perspective is it enjoyable it's enjoyable in the sense that it's nice, and it's comfortable and it's pleasant it's not enjoyable necessarily in the sense that it's like yeah, this is fun to drive i mean you put your foot down you go fast, but the thing also weighs an extraordinary amount so it's not like you want to carve up corners or anything like that it's cool. it's got adjustable ride height. you've got this air suspension, which you can raise or lower that's pretty neat feature wise this thing's decked out. you've got night vision which is something like a $7,000 option is included with the adaptive cruise control, but you do have night vision so it has a thermal image system and it'll look for deer and you know make sure you don't hit anything like that that would be an expensive repair bill, so you've got to avoid it the steering is definitely super light. i mean, it's almost almost like it's on a bearing and you just kind of turn a wheel and then the car does its thing not quite there i mean there is a little bit of feedback but it's very light very low effort one of the things i have been quite impressed by is the stereo and sure you know $400,000 car of course it should have a good stereo, but i get in plenty of nice cars and i'm not totally impressed this one is fantastic and granted, it's over a $9,000 option but incredibly crisp very clear perfect amazing sound i mean it's not that blaring thumping you know subwoofer drone that you get when people like to modify their cars and just throw in some subs it is a truly perfect just incredible sound experience when you're blasting your favorite song in here truly awesome. i just turned on the butt massager on it's a little weird, i mean i don't have a whole lot going on as far as butts are concerned so it probably feels different for me than for most but for me it's kind of just like, poking me oh it goes left side gets a little action probably not the right word and then it works its way over to there back at the left side wow it's getting pretty aggressive. i never really have been into massage chairs even those ones that like brookstone or whatever those $5,000 chairs that you sit in i find them painful so if you like those chairs you might like these if you don't like those chairs you probably won't like these. i feel like i really haven't said too much about how this driving experience is but i mean it's it's a rolls right like the interior is exceptional. it's it's very simple honestly like the controls can get a little complicated and trying to figure out things for the first time took me a while to figure out where the door locks are they're right there in the center but overall the interior is pretty simple. it's pretty straightforward. there's not all kinds of futuristic things thrown in your face you've got you know four gauges up front. you've got power reserve. that's how much power is left when your foots not on it you've got a hundred percent left when your foots deep in it. you know it goes down and your face gets excited there's a fuel gauge and then there's a coolant temperature and that's pretty much all you really need and so they keep it simple i like that it's kind of elegant luxurious. there's leather this blue leather wrapping everything which i think looks awesome the ride quality is fantastic it's definitely a cool car and you know you get your friends in here you bless the music like you're gonna have a good time it's it's a sweet ride for sure so thank you guys for watching! and if you have any questions or comments feel free to leave them below. wow whoa wow so if you slam on the brakes it pulls you quite tight with the seatbelt that was actually kind of nice felt real secure.