(upbeat music) - all right, so you've seen the unboxing. now it's time for the breakdown. what is using the apple
vision pro actually like? this is easily one of apple's
craziest, most radical, possibly dystopian products of all time. and i have a lot of thoughts here, like i've been using it
for about a week now. there are some parts of this thing that are absolutely incredible, and some other parts that feel weird, or borderline unfinished. there are all kinds of new technologies, from a new operating system
to infrared eye tracking to virtually reconstructed
versions of you. i feel like there are so
many actually new things that you have to understand
in order to get a sense of what this headset
actually is and what it does. so i'm gonna break this
down into two parts. this video is all about
using the vision pro. it's everything i've
learned from the past week of wearing and getting used to
this thing every single day. but i'm also working
on a more wide ranging, possibly more existential, review video. but let's just start with the more hardware fundamentals, right? like what is this thing
that i'm holding literally? apple vision pro at its core, well, it is a vr headset. now, apple would never say that, and they probably won't like
that i'm saying that word. you know, i made an entire video about why they refuse to use those words, and they're calling it
spatial computing instead. we'll get there. but the truth is it's a
really, really, really high end virtual reality headset. it's something we've seen before, right? it's got displays and lenses and speakers and fans and buttons. and this is a form factor. this is a thing that we have seen before, but before i even turn this thing on, there are clearly several things that are a little
different about this one. so first of all, it's made of metal. lots of metal and glass
here, which are high quality, but heavy materials, relatively speaking. so there's this precisely
machined aluminum frame around the outside. and yes, those are intakes
for fans at the bottom. and then vents for those fans at the top. on the right side,
there's your digital crown that can be pressed in or turned. and then on the other side is
just a single larger button. so kind of basically the same
two buttons as an apple watch. and then when you get
a little further back on this band here, these little pods with downward facing
grills, these are speakers which are pointed straight at your ears, and work surprisingly well. though of course, it also
means that people around you can hear a little bit
of what you're hearing. there's a little bit of bleed, and i have a lot to say
about spatial audio, so stay tuned for that. but the main event is at the front. there is an enormous piece of glass, which, yes, is very easy
to fingerprint and smudge. and then behind that thing,
there's this outward-facing oled display and a bunch of
sensors all the way around, outside facing sensors that go forward, sideways, and straight down. and there's depth sensors,
infrared illuminators, lidar scanners, and just
regular old rgb cameras, all being processed by an m2 chip and an r1 chip inside this thing. and then maybe the craziest part, inside the headset, there
are a bunch more sensors facing your eyes, tracking
your eyes in real time, for all the eye control and
everything that comes with that. and also then to display a
representation of your eyes on the outside of the headset. kinda, we'll get there. but overall, when you put it all together, you get a very well made, very high end, but also pretty heavy
computer to wear on your face. so officially, this headset
with this solo knit band when i weighed it, showed up as 638 grams, which some of you on twitter
have already pointed out is actually slightly less than
the plastic meta quest pro. but that quest pro also
has a lot of battery on the back of your head as
a sort of a counterbalance, so the weight distribution
is very different. also, the quest pro is not
that comfortable anyway. but the point is this,
for apple, made the choice of taking the battery off of
the headset, which means okay, now there's nothing on
the back of your head, so you can wear it and
lean up against things, and that might be an upside, but that also now means you have to deal with this cable all the time
running up to your head, and the fact that it's
very front weighted now. all of the weight is on
the front of your face. so this is the battery, as
you saw in the unboxing. if you haven't already seen the
unboxing, that just went up. i'll link it below the like button. but this battery is a surprisingly small 3,366 milliamp hours. i say surprisingly small
because a normal battery bank of this size, you might
expect to be 10, 15, 20,000 milliamp hours. i suspect there's a lot of
heat insulation happening here. but it comes with a
non-removable four foot cable, and a proprietary connector
at the end of the cable that will twist and lock to the headset. and so the lock is really solid. it makes sense that it's
not just straight usb that could get disconnected easily. once you connect it, it starts glowing, and then it starts booting up. and there's even a little
apple logo that displays on the outside screen
while it takes, you know, a little under a minute to turn on. so there is no on or off button or switch anywhere on this headset. maybe kind of like airpods
max or something like that. so if you ever take the headset off and put it down, it will
enter a standby mode after some time, but it won't turn off. if you wanna turn it off,
you literally have to twist and unplug the cable. that's the only way to
actually turn the headset off. now famously already, the battery life with this included
battery, is not super long on this headset. two to four hours is actually realistic for what you can expect for
just like this built-in battery. but that's also kind of right in line with a lot of other vr headsets. battery life on vr headsets
is not that great in general. if you do wanna use it longer,
the only way to do that is there's usbc port on the battery, and you have to plug the battery in. so you could plug the
battery into the wall for infinite battery life, or i guess you could plug it into like a, you could daisy chain another
battery into the other pocket or something for even longer life. but yeah, two to four hours. now at first it seemed weird to me that the port is on the
same side of the battery as the non-removable cable, but i think it's because
they just want you to default to putting this battery in your pocket, probably in your back pocket. so even if it's plugged into the wall, it can still be in your back pocket. you're just gonna want to
get a longer usbc cable. so there are no controllers
that come with this headset. now it does support other input methods that are like game controllers,
and mouse, and keyboard, and those can be incredibly useful, but by default the primary input method for everyone using the vision pro is your eyes and your hands. so the first time you put on this headset, it goes through this calibration process, and it's pretty interesting. so the first time you ever put it on, it first adjusts the
distance between the lenses, physically moving them inside the headset to match the distance between your eyes. then it does this sort of a hand scan so it understands your hands. and then you go through this process of basically looking at a bunch of dots all the way around the screen, and then tapping your fingers
together to select them. kind of feels like an
eye test or something. and then you're in. so first thing you're gonna notice is you can actually kind
of put your hands anywhere as long as the headset can see this, just your fingers touching together. so there's a lot of pictures
of people using a headset with their fingers, like
out in front of them, pinching like that. but you actually don't have to do that. it's such a wide angle
because of the sensors facing forward and sideways and down. you can kind of just
rest your hand anywhere, in front of you, in your lap. as long as you pinch like that, it can generally pick it
up, which is impressive. so you're pinching to control anywhere in that'0 degree bubble in front of you. and then the digital
crown, you hit that once, and the app drawer
comes up, pretty simple. doesn't seem that impressive. but this is actually a peek
at the first really impressive thing about this headset to
me, which is it seems to have incredible spatial positioning lock, and like, it's really hard
to have you appreciate this through a youtube video. reviewing vr headsets is hard. but turn around in the room you're in, and picture a wall or a window just appearing locked in place
in 3d space in your room, and no matter how much you move your head, or move around, it stays
exactly kind of floating where it's supposed to be. but when i say floating, i
think you're picturing like a, a soft float, but it's locked,
and that's how it starts. so now you're in apple's new vision os i would describe this as
kind of similar to ipad os, but way more glassy, and of course with the extra dimension of 3d space. so hitting a digital crown
will always get the app drawer back in front of you, and
then simply look at the icon you want and pinch your fingers together, to select it and open that app. scrolling is basically as you'd expect, you just kind of pinch
and grab in the air, and then pull as if it's on a string, and physics let you pull
things through the air. it's pretty intuitive, it's
responsive, it's fluid. sometimes it's kind of bouncy even. i would say the biggest adjustment is only being able to control exactly what you're looking at. and i don't think people realize how often they're controlling things that they're not exactly
looking directly at with other computers and other uis. but with this, you can look
at the button to select it, and if you look at the
next thing you're gonna do, you're no longer controlling the button. you have to look exactly
where you're trying to interact with things. it takes a few extra brain cycles to remember to always be looking exactly at the thing you're controlling. so when you open a window
of a vision os app, like any one of the
default apple apps here, it locks into place, it's floating there. it kind of looks, again, like an ipad app, but very glassy, like this
frosted glass around the ui sort of lets you see through a little bit to the color behind it. and it even sometimes casts
a shadow on the ground in the correct z space,
so it really solidifies that it's floating in front of you. all this makes it feel like the window is in the space around you. then if you look at the
bottom of the window, you get a little bar, you can
always just look at that bar and pinch to drag it around. so drag it forward,
backward, anywhere you want in x, y, and z space, and then let go and it just stays absolutely locked. and then you can look at
either bottom corner to resize to make it bigger or smaller. and then finally there's
a little x at the bottom, you select that, that closes it. so that is the basics of vision os, and just using an app. now this entire time, by default, and almost any time they
can, passthrough is on, which means you have the headset on, but you can see with the cameras right through to everything around you. and i think this is
where apple really wants to normalize the term spatial computing, because it feels like augmented reality. it feels like you're always
able to see the space around you, but technically
it's not actually ar, because you are still looking
at a reconstructed version through a camera feed
of the world around you instead of the actual world around you. but maybe it's all just semantics. i will say, this is the best
passthrough of any vr headset i've ever used, and it's
not even that close. now again, it's so hard to get
this through a youtube video. it does have screen recording built in, so i'm gonna try to use that. but imagine putting a headset on, and not really feeling like
you're looking at a screen with the real world. because of the pixel density, because of the 90 hertz refresh rate, and because of the impressive
dynamic range of the cameras and the correctly adjusting shutter speed, you just almost don't, you almost just feel like you're looking at the real world, not through a headset. also the passthrough is
so close to real time that i could legitimately
interact with all kinds of things. i could catch items flying at me. i even tried playing ping pong. it was easy, no hesitation. so officially, the r1 chip
is doing all the processing of all this stuff and
adjusting the shutter speed for different lighting conditions and always keeping passthrough latency under 12 milliseconds, which
is the lowest in the industry. but it's really combining
that with how close to reality the colors and brightness
and everything are that keeps it feeling kind of real. basically, the only noticeable restriction is super close up items and
objects can get a bit blurry, and then you can't quite
make out really small or fine texts, so you can't read an email or a tiny text on your phone in your hand, but you can absolutely text people, or read your notifications,
while keeping the headset on. if you've tried other vr headsets, you know how impressive that is. it's just, it's really good with the tech that exists now for vr headsets. but you can definitely
still take the headset off and be like, oh, it's way brighter in here than i thought it was. either way, that's all passthrough, but if you ever wanna
fully immerse yourself, i mean it is a vr headset after all, all you gotta do is rotate
this digital crown clockwise, just keep turning it, and it will slowly dial your environment more and
more into your field of view until you dial it all the way
up to fully surrounding you. so all of the windows
you might have had open will still stay stuck where they were, but everything you're doing
is just on the moon now. so yeah, there's a couple environments apple has built in here, most of them relaxing scenic locations, like in california somewhere, or one really nice one is mount hood with a little bit of rain falling. they're not quite photorealistic, but they're just short of photorealistic, like they're the most
realistic digital environments that i've seen. so then the last two big quirks
of the ui, control center. so the only way to get to control center is to look up, and you can't just look up, but you have to physically
turn your head up and look at this arrow
that appears above you. so once you see that, you select that and then you get your control
center for things like, you know, battery life and
notifications, focus modes, and screen recording,
and pairing to a mac. but the other big quirk is text input. so you might be wondering
how does text input work with no physical controllers? so there's basically
three ways to do this. so let's say you are in safari, and you want to go to mkbhd.com. you really want one of those
shiny new chevron hoodies for the rest of winter. great, how do you do it? so the first way is to
literally hunt and peck poking the keys on the keyboard that appears in the air in front of you. so this one is tough, because
it literally only reacts to your pointer finger on each hand. so you actually can't type fast, like with home row or anything like that. not great. the second way, though, i
think is actually kind of good. it's at least faster,
which is looking at the key you want to interact with, and
then pinching to select it. so just looking around
the keyboard like this, and selecting the keys. and you might be surprised how
fast you can type like this if you actually know your way
around a keyboard pretty well. i actually prefer this to
poking the virtual keys because i at least get a
little bit of haptic feedback from my own fingers tapping together. but then in safari, the last way to do it is literally to just
look up at the microphone and say the url out loud. mkbhd.com. and then it just hears you and goes to the site pretty quick, if it's a url that you
can actually say out loud. so, what can you actually
do with this thing? like now that we know what
it is, it's the m2 chip, a computer on your face with the displays and the lenses inside, and all
sorts of sensors everywhere. what can this thing actually do? and i feel like the most
common way to phrase that is what is the killer app? because that's, we feel
like we need some sort of justification to spend
three, $4,000 on this thing. like applications made the
iphone what it is as we know it, like apps made the ipad. so what is the app
situation on the vision pro? so there are two types of apps
on the vision pro, actually. the first is apps that
are built specifically for the vision pro to take advantage of its awesome experiences. and there are a few of those right now, and then there are all the other apps, which basically are iphone and ipad apps that happen to be compatible because the developer didn't opt out. and the first kind is way cooler. so these are apple's stock apps here that come with the vision pro. and so these are all, of course,
made just for vision pro. so they're gonna have stuff
that takes full advantage of what this thing is capable of. apple music is a pretty classic one, like it has all the same functionality of any other apple music app, but in this super glassy frosted window, and shows the colors of
whatever's behind it. and you have the sort of sorting
menu on the left hand side instead of across the bottom. that's the basic layout. same thing with the notes
app and the settings app. very glassy, almost looking
like an ipad app in the air, just rebuilt with this
new material design. and then there's the media apps. so apple tv and disney+,
they both come pre-installed, which they have built entire environments inside of them for watching media. and there's even a small
collection of videos on the apple tv app that are shot on a new proprietary format specifically for vision pro. so it drops you into a space
with a full'0 degree video, and alicia keys walks right up to you and starts singing right to your face. it's crazy. there's also the photos app, which will let you look
at panoramic photos, for example, in this fully immersive view. so you can blow them up to full screen, and then it gives you a
bit of a parallax effect around the edges, so it
feels like you're looking into a window of your own
photo and looking around. it's kind of incredible. and then there's also
some other really fun third party apps that i've tried that were built ahead of time. so sky guide, this is a good one. you can look around a real
representation of the sky around you or any of the
constellations would normally be, you can look at it a little
longer and it'll pop it out. you can pull it outta the sky to get more information about it. it's a pretty great idea. there's another one called jig space, which is, it's a sick app, i don't know if i'd ever use it, but basically it lets you load 3d models into the space you're in
and mess around with them, take 'em apart, view them in actual size. and this really takes
advantage of how good the placement lock is on the vision pro. and you can walk around,
and really gets you a better understanding
of the scale of things that you don't get to
see up close very often. and then keynote is another funny one. so you can of course go
through and edit a keynote just like normal if you want to, but then they've built
this whole environment for practicing your presentation skills. so you press that and it
says, oh, would you like to go to a conference room, or the
literal steve jobs theater, so you can rehearse
talking to your audience with your keynote slides behind you. it is genuinely incredibly immersive. and there's already a
bunch more apps like this in the app store already at launch that are specifically
built for vision pro. so they'll take advantage
of its various strengths. now, are any of these a killer app? not really. i mean i don't, if you're
looking for any one of these to be the reason why you spend
like $4,000 on this headset, i don't think we have that yet. but then at least there's
all the other non-native, but technically still compatible, apps that are in the app store. and these are gonna look just
like iphone and ipad apps. actually, there's a pre-installed
folder on the home screen when you get this thing
literally called compatible apps, and there's a bunch of
them from apple here. they look exactly like ipad apps. i'm surprised actually
that more of them aren't fully built out to take
advantage of vision pro, but like, apple maps is just the ipad app. and so it would be cool
if there were some fun augmented reality overlay
walking directions type stuff, but nope, it's all the
exact same functionality that you would find if you
opened this app on your ipad. and you can go to the app store and search a bunch of the names of apps you already know and love,
and find them by name and grab them, and they'll
work the exact same way. crazily enough though, there are already some notable exceptions. no netflix app for the
vision pro, no youtube app for the vision pro, no spotify
app for the vision pro. apple has kind of a
contentious relationship with a lot of developers right now, especially some of the bigger ones. and so some have made the
active choice to opt out. they're like, we don't wanna be there. this won't be a big enough
platform to matter to us to justify the work. so they're not there. now i totally get it, but also now as a vision pro owner and someone who's using it, i'm like, oh, it's kind of a bummer. i really wanted to be able to
watch a netflix show offline, downloaded it ahead of time,
but you can't do that now. but at least, at least
for now, for the record, you can use the browser, and anything that would
work in the browser. so if you pull up safari, and you get a full screen
4k youtube video going, and locked in space, or
even in an environment, it looks great. it's razor sharp. like, i could totally watch
youtube videos like this. but you will definitely
be missing the features of having the dedicated
app, like offline video. honestly to me, the killer
app of the vision pro isn't just an app, it's
actually the ecosystem. and we knew this was coming, but the second you log into a
vision pro with your apple id, immediately it starts
pulling all the services, and all the stuff that you're used to from all the other apple
devices you already have. and i said this before the
vision pro was announced, i was like, this is the most
obvious strategy for apple because there are lots of people out there who have never considered
buying a vr headset that are considering only this one because they have an iphone, and this is the one that
works with the iphone, and none of the others
are particularly close. so all of your imessages are already here, all of your photos are already here and loaded up and backed up. all your notes are already
at your fingertips. you already saw the keynote app. but okay, easily my favorite feature is connecting to your mac, right? so anytime your mac is in front of you and it's turned on, hit that arrow and then there's this little icon to become my mac's virtual display. so i click that, and then pick my mac, and it pretty much instantly,
it actually blacks out the display of my mac, and
then turns that display into a 4k window inside of the headset. so now my keyboard and
trackpad still work, even if it is a desktop. the keyboard and the trackpad
still control everything, and you can continue using it
just like a normal computer, but with the ability to
make your new 4k monitor as big or as small or close
or far away as you want, which is super sick. and then the bonus is
you can still open up and place other vision pro
apps around your mac computer. so like you can have your
mac in the middle here, and maybe you're editing or
doing some work on the mac app, and then you have a safari
window, or messages, or whatever else you want
right next to it around it. and then your keyboard
and trackpad can move seamlessly between them
all to control all of them. this, to me, as a mac user,
the ease of use for setup to make this happen, this feels like the biggest game changer, like the most compelling
futuristic feeling use of this headset to me. especially on a plane. oh my god, i can't tell you how many times i've had an awkward conversation because, like, i'm editing a video on the plane, the person next to me sees
i'm editing a video of myself, and it's kind of weird
and hard to explain, but i'm picturing putting the headset on, the display blacks out, but now i can do all the editing i want, and i can make the
screen as big as i want. so i've really enjoyed using that feature. again, the biggest challenge, though, is still remembering to
look exactly at the thing you want to control. so aside from typing on the real keyboard on whatever window is open, if you want to control something, you
have to be looking at it. again, it doesn't sound like a big deal, but when you try it,
you'll see what i mean. and then also, odd
limitation, one monitor only. from the mac, one virtual
monitor only at a time. so if you usually run a
dual display setup like i do for final cut pro, big
preview on one side, timeline on the other
side, you can't do that. you have to use the big one
monitor version of your setup. all right, so you might have realized i've left one thing out this whole time. one thing, you could call
it one more thing, sure. it's one more huge crazy thing, but it's kind of the defining
characteristic of this product and that is personas. so in all the advertising
you've seen of vision pro, there's these eyes on the
outside of the headset that looks like they're
kind of in a passthrough, like in a dark astronaut
helmet type of thing. easily the most memed, most unique aspect of this headset, right? it's the only headset
with an outward display. and i mean it's very, very
prominent in those videos, but in real life, as you've started to see from some of my footage,
it is very different, and i think i figured out why. so first of all, it's not
actually see-through, right? there's a whole bunch of computer in between me and you right now. so the eyes aren't on the outside. it's a representation of my eyes based on what all the sensors
on the inside are seeing. it's reconstructing it on the outside. so those sensors are tracking
at 90 frames per second, and they give you optic id, which is, it's how you log into the
headset and keep things secure. it's basically the same
as face id, or touch id, it's just looking at and
identifying your eyes. and it also powers the one
beta feature of this headset, which is personas, which
is, it's the most impressive and weirdest thing about this
headset at the same time. i'm calling it right now. so the purpose of the eyes on the outside is really not for you,
the wearer of the headset. in fact, you'll never see it. but it's for the people around you. so when you're in a passthrough mode, your eyes will shine through to indicate that you wearing the headset can see the person outside. so that right there is
already pretty unique. but then, when you're
in something immersive and you can't see what's around
you, it covers up your eyes with this sort of like a blue,
purple glowing animation. so that intuitively makes sense. you can see the eyes
when they can see you, you can't see the eyes
when they can't see you. but crazily enough, there's also a feature where if you have someone
who's outside the headset looking at you, talking to you, and you are in an immersion, but you want to talk to them through that, they will kind of appear through the fog of whatever immersive
environment you're in. so you just start talking and
looking in their direction. it detects that, and sort of
parts a little bit of a fog and that person's eyes
will show through the fog. it's pretty decent. it basically only shows
one person at a time. and when this is happening on
the outside of the headset, it shows a little bit of
your eyes poking through the purple and blue glow. it's, as you can see, it's all working, but also, i think it looks
nothing like the eyes from the ad. so in an effort to make the eyes as presentable as possible, two things. first of all, this
screen is actually behind a lenticular film, which
i didn't even realize that from the initial media they had published. but if you've ever heard of that, it's sort of what gives it this 3d depth. you might have seen this on
other holographic displays and stuff, but the point of that is to make the eyes appear to
be sunken into the display, like on your actual face, instead of glued to the
front of the headset, which would look a little more weird. but then two, to represent
your actual eyes, they've built in a way to scan in and create a digital
representation of your face, which is called your persona. and it looks like this. so to get those eyes on the outside of the vision pro headset,
you have to do something called registering your persona. this is how it creates
the digital version of you that includes your eyes
that will show up here. so let's do that now. it's actually kind of a cool process. so i'm gonna put it on, and
hopefully the screen recording works so you can see
exactly what i'm doing. i'll hit the digital crown. i'm gonna go to settings. and you can do this when
you first set it up. but i'm going to persona, and
i'm gonna hit get started. so let's refine my hands real quick. this is capturing detail
from the front of the headset of the hands in front of me. once it's done with that- - [automated voice] your
persona, remove apple vision pro. - it's gonna ask me to take it off. so this is how it goes. - [automated voice] when you're ready, hold apple vision pro at eye level. keep your arms and shoulders relaxed. align your entire face within the frame. - [marques] my face shows up like face id. - [automated voice] slowly
turn your head to the right. now slowly turn your head to the left. now tilt your head up, then tilt your head down. next, let's capture
your facial expressions. smile with your mouth closed. then make a big smile
with your teeth showing. now raise your eyebrows. close your eyes for a moment. capture complete. put vision pro back on to continue. - i will do that. so now i have a menu that
says creating persona, and it says it's in beta, and now there's my persona right there. kind of uncanny. the hair's a little bit
different, but the face. wow, wow. okay. so there's different lighting. you can choose it to always
be in studio lighting, and always be in contour lighting. i'll just leave it at
natural, and hit next. you can change the color
temperature of your skin tone. cool to warm, i think i'm around there. brightness, darkness. i think i'm around there, near the middle. next. and then i can add glasses. so if i typically have glasses, which obviously i wouldn't be able to wear in the vision pro, you can still
look like you have glasses, anytime you're on that facetime call. and then next. save. and that's it. so i think now you should see my eyes. maybe. and that that's the
thing, it barely shows up. you can barely see my eyes
when i'm wearing the headset. now i've tried a couple
other scans subsequently, so i've tried different
lighting conditions, i've tried different
backgrounds, simple backgrounds, tried different shirts
and things like that. it doesn't really ever
appear any brighter. i think if you have a
darker skin tone like me, just don't expect the eyes
to show up very brightly on the outside of the headset. it's pretty subtle. even when it does show up,
it's a little weird looking. the eyes are a little
too far apart sometimes. they're a little dim. you see one eye at a time. it's kind of weird. but that persona though. whew. that is some pretty interesting stuff. it's crazy that this is actually
a real thing being shipped, like first meta started doing it. now apple's doing this. this is, again, it's technically in beta. so i dunno, there's room for improvement, but it still works. but as of right now, i feel like this is both incredibly impressive
and slightly unsettling. like, it's very impressive
that this thing, this headset i'm wearing on my face, is tracking all these
little micro expressions and little movements for
my eyes and my cheeks and my mouth and everything. but at the same time,
it's just not quite human. it's right at the edge
of the uncanny valley of i'm not looking at a person. so yeah. but the crazy part is you
can now use this persona as your camera feed for
any apps in vision pro that require a front facing
camera, like facetime. and so i've tried, i've
been using facetime a few times in the vision pro, and it is, technically
speaking, incredible. so i've made a few facetime
calls in the past few days with some fellow reviewers, who you'll probably recognize
from their personas, who are also testing the vision pro. and universally, once we
all got past the shock of, oh my god, it's you. it looks like a digital version of you. this is crazy. i've never seen anything like this before. once we got past that, there
is a ton happening here. so you can see the facetime windows literally appear as just that. they're just like glassy
windows floating in space with people looking through them. and then the angle that
you look into the window is gonna match the angle that
they see you looking at them. meaning if we're all in
vision pros on this call, unlikely, but hear me out. if we're all in vision pros, and you've got a bunch of
people on this facetime call, so there's somebody to the left, and somebody to the right,
if i look to the person, and make eye contact with
the person to the right, the person to the left
sees the side of my head, because i'm looking at somebody else. that's already pretty cool. and then the same thing
is true for hand gestures. so we tried this out. turns out you can reach out and make hand gestures that
are tracked by the cameras in this bubble in front of you, and they show up at the correct angle towards the person that
you're gesturing at, so not towards everybody else on the call. oh wait, wait, wait. okay, good test. so wait, justine, do you see this? - yes. - and brian, do you see?
- i don't see that. i don't see that, marques.
- whoa. - now wait. so now brian, do you see this?
(justine gasps) - now i can see that, marques. - and then on top of
that, spatial audio here is incredibly well developed. so again, you're on the
call, the voice of the person to the right comes from the right side. the voice of the person to
the left comes from the left. but also, you can just pick
up and move the window around, and that angle will match where
the people are in the room and where their sound
and video comes from. if i put you on the
other side of the room, it sounds like they're further away. and if i turn up the environment, and bring them into the
moon, or some other 3d space, it actually sounds much more
like i'm in a gigantic space with no echo, versus in the actual room. it's all very subtle,
but very well considered. so once you're in this a while, you start to notice all
these little smaller things. again, it's not quite human-like. it's not like looking at a
video feed of a human face, but it is still, like
it has a lot of like, this would be the best avatar
anyone's ever made in 2k. like no one's ever done a 2k face scan and had it look this good, but it's still not as
good as a perfect reality. it's a, you've heard the
uncanny valley thing before. i think the number one
weakness for the avatars or the personas that i've seen is hair. so basically everyone i've talked to has like a frozen lump of hair instead of flowing realistic hair. and that's true about all flowing things, like however your hair
was when you did the scan, it's frozen that way. and so is any necklace you're wearing, whether it's crooked or not, or i guess, technically
also any makeup you had on, or however you looked
when you did the scan. maybe that could be a good thing. maybe you did a scan when you
were looking all dolled up, and then you get on a 7:00 am call, and you still look perfect even though you look like you just
woke up in real life. so i guess there's that too. but anyway, all that is to say facetime. facetime is the most well thought out, like most futuristic
vision pro experience. it just is. so i'll end this video with this. now you know what it's
like to use and operate the vision pro. but there's still a lot more to consider when actually considering
if you should buy and own this thing, from the use cases, to the things that work
well, and don't work well, the philosophy behind it, the
prices, all of that stuff. that's what's gonna be for my full review. like there are parts of this thing that are absolutely amazing, unparalleled, best i've ever seen. but the reason it's so interesting is because it's actually a young category. like we're so used to this
slow, boring iteration in mature categories, like
smartphones, and laptops, and you always see the comments talking about how tech is so boring, but now they're actually
jumping into something risky, and it's actually fun, and
there is downfalls and flaws, and it's fun to actually
weigh the pros and cons. so i'll be expanding on all these way more in the full review, but
i'll leave you with this. i've got my upsides and
downsides to vision pro. it's been a week. upsides, some of the stuff
that's the best i've ever seen in a headset. immersion, placement
in space, eye tracking and hand control, passthrough, ecosystem, and spatial audio. and the downsides, weight and comfort, the eyes on the outside, app selection right now,
battery life, and price. so the full reviews in the works. definitely get subscribed
to be among the first to see that when it drops. either way, till the next one. thanks for watching. catch you later. peace.