- so you guys are planning
on sleeping here tonight? - yes.
- yeah. - yeah, pretty much. - hopefully. - hopefully? what do you mean hopefully? - if i can fall asleep. (all laugh) - so we're here in our
sponsor micro center's, tustin location in california. take a closer look at the rtx 3070, and what exactly goes in to the most hyped pc
hardware launch of the year. - i've been here since 4:00 a.m. - i've been here yesterday
at like around 7:00 p.m. - can you guys explain to me, what is the deal with
the line and the system? how is the line being run today? - i think all i did was like, or we, we just went up to the guy. i think it was
- they you call you a list master. - the list of master? wait, who's the list master? - i don't know the guy
- the first guy, - so the first guy came .
- andy up in here - so the first guy came and
he's now the list master, because he's first. sir, what was your name? - andy. - okay, andy. i've been told that you
are the list master. - i am. - what is the list master? - the guy that showed up first and got the list plopped in his lap. - i just got here on like
ready to get in line. what do i do? so i called you and say, hey, i wanna be on the list. what's the process? - i tell you, what card
are you looking for? we have one, that's solely for the
launch, the 3070 list. and then we have, the 3000 for 3080 or 90, because drops for those cards
are completely not guaranteed. - how often do i need to check it? - every three hours on
the designated times. - so are people coming and
going throughout the day? - so in between call times, you're free to do whatever you want. you can wait in your car, you can go home. your line space is reserved
as so long as you are here during calls. - did you come yesterday with the intention of being line master? - hell no. do you think (laughing) do you think anybody just like, has this kind of duty, like, thrust upon them and they're like, yes. - [austin] what led you to stand in line for over 24 hours for a graphics card? - okay. so i missed out on the 3080, which was the biggest mistake i've made. and then i was like, you know,
i need a graphics card now. and so i was, i made that decision. i'm gonna come here and get the 3070, no matter what. - so one of the big reasons we're here, is because the previous
rtx 30 series launches, the 3080 and the 3090, had massive lines. so we're talking about dozens
if not hundreds of people sitting in line for days, waiting to get their hands
on these new graphics cards. - the problem with 3080 launch, is they stopped sending us
20 series cards that day. so for now, almost a month, we haven't had 30 series
cards to sell customers or just to tide people
over any 20 series cards. - for the 3080 launch, we had a little bit of a scuffle outside. just some raised voices, no violence physically let's say. but, yeah there was some confusion about who was on the list and who wasn't. - what sucked actually is, i was here for 3090, right? i showed up 15 hours early. i'm thinking, okay, that might be, i might have a shot. by then the 3090 list, was like 65 deep. and they only had 26 confirmed cards. so these are our current
totals for those list. - 77 people are waiting
for 3070 right now? - [andy] right now. - and 29 people for the 3080 and 3090. - and remember, these are, there's no guarantee whatsoever. - there could be no cards
- at all - i found that (chuckling) they formed like a little
civilization outside. i felt like a little
tribe of people waiting. in some cases, i knew one
guy who waited for eight days just to get a 3080. - i'm working on a spreadsheet
online so that people can see like where they are on the list. - so have you done like a line, like an overnight line like this before? - i have never done this before? - so what are you doing here then? or you're that at ads
for the graphics cards? - cause i'm doing my
first compute pc bill. - [austin] this is your first pc bill? - yeah. - what do you think it is, that compels people to spend
days in line waiting for a graphics card, as opposed to just waiting a month or two and trying to track one down
when they're actually in stock? - i think part of it is, there's a little bit of a
thrill that goes with it. is everybody that i've seen, that has waited multiple days and finally comes in the store. it's like they win a million bucks. - you just got here. what are you here for? - i'm actually here to
try to resell cards. - and i know tons of people
are flipping their used cards for crazy prices too. - i actually just kinda did
like a hand-me-down thing for my old wing, i'm giving some of my
nephews and friends so.. - after chatting with people
for a couple hours outside, my next goal was to see if i
could actually get my hands on the holy grail itself, the rtx 3070, which i'll tell you all about, right after this word from
our sponsor micro center. if you don't feel like waiting days to get your hands on the latest new tech, they're currently running a promotion, where they're giving away
a free 32 gig flash drive and a 32 gig micro sd card. all you need to do, is enter your email to get the code. and then the next time
you're in the store, you can pick up your free swag. and of course all that will
be linked in the description. - (giggling) here it is. this is what everyone outside
is standing in line for! the rtx 3070. so what makes this card special, is that it's $500. it is more powerful than the
previous best graphics card you could get for gaming period! $1,200, the rtx 2080 ti
a couple of years ago, was the king of the roost. but now, the 3070 has dethroned it and dethroned it at less
than half the price. - we're checking in for four o'clock, starting with the 3070
for tomorrow's launch. first, me. second, rodrigo....
- [rodrigo] here. - tommy....
- [tommy] here - jeffrey....
- [jeffrey] here - ishmael....
- here - freddie vale. (crowd murmuring) freddie vale v-a-l-e freddie vale (crowd murmuring) last call, freddie vale.. all right. if you guys didn't hear your names call or you just arrived, come to me, i'll be at the front. next roll call is at seven. - how many other people
on the list right now? - right now? it seems like, there is 94. - 94 people right now? - we'll be pushing a hundred
by next check-in for sure. (giggling) it's nearly a sure shot that like the first, i'm assuming 50 are gonna get 3070's for sure. and then, they sound like
they have even more than that, - but who knows
- but who knows? - the national launch is 9:00 am eastern. we will open up with
every other chain at six. we will be 6:00 am because
of the eastern time. all right. so we wanna make sure
you guys have the ability to post, i got it! at the same time with somebody in new york all right guys. thank you.
(clapping) - so we have a last-minute update. ken, has been lured by the idea of a 3070. he's gonna stay here tonight. so what's the move right now? so you wanna put your name on the list? - yeah, i'll do it. - all right. so just so you guys know, we've already hit triple digits. it's not even the 7:00 pm check-in, so, chances are low
- [ken] got ya but we anticipate the most fall-off, in the middle of the night. so you might get lucky
into the double digits. - all right - [andy] first and last. - kenneth, k-e-n-n-e-t-h. - you're at 103. - 103! oh yeah, cause you
had some names crossed out earlier too. - what has compelled you
to decide to stay in line? i, for the record did
not ask for this at all. he volunteered. - look, if i have a mini itx build, that could fit some sort of 3070 i think. also, i'm going back to some of the things that i kinda miss, out of, back when we had normal lives, which is, waiting to spend money. - all right, this is it. they're leaving me. - bye ken! - bye! they're my ride home. i didn't bring my car here. so, i hope to god, austin comes back and i hope to god he keeps his promise, but he's been a good boss, for three or four of the five years i've been working for him, so so it is currently 10.30. i'm out here alone. even though i have some
friends that showed up, there're their chairs, they all went to the bathroom. my friends have brought me
some friends, aka plushies. they're back from the bathroom. (engine revving) this is homebase, she's hanging out too. all right. so a quick little update. it is currently 11 o'clock and we were about two-ish hours away from the next roll call and... 200 people! almost 200 people, to try to
get their hands on the 3070. so we'll see where this goes. all right, 1:00 am. let's go to this roll call. there's already (honking) a lot of people there. (chuckling) - salvatore pinero........
- [salvatore] here - urban wells.....
- [urban wells] here. (laughing)
- kenneth bolido..... - here - collin (indistinct)....
- [collin] here - so the magic number is 212, 212 people are here and among those, (giggling) one of them got crossed off. didn't show up. so i imagine, there's gonna be 200
people fighting for cards. all right. so after taking
a 15 minute power nap, i woke up, we went to the bathroom at
a hotel across the street that was so kind, to let us use it. and now i just finished
the 4:00 am roll call, which means now, we're gonna fall in line (honking)
single file, social distance. and we're going to be locked in. we cannot leave our spot in line, until 6:00 am when the store opens. and when i will eventually, or hopefully, will maybe, probably, get my 3070
(beeping) - justin - here - it's just a little bit past
five o'clock in the morning right now. and i cannot find parking
anywhere inside micro center. so my main goal, is to find ken and see how the night's going. - [receiver] leave your
name and your message. - it's not a good sign. we're less than 30 minutes
away from the launch. and people have stretched
and round the store, all the way through the parking lot and a block down the street. there are at least 200
people here right now. and i can't find ken anywhere. - austin... - [austin] what's up dude. good luck. - oh men (sighing)
- thank you - [austin] how long have you been here? - since 12. - [austin] been since here so.. - 12:00 am?
- [austin] the line was this long at 12 am? - yeah, i was at 220 when i got here. - [austin] how long have been here? - 10. - [austin] so you've
been here since 10:00 pm. - yeah. - [austin] is it worth it? - i think so, yeah. (chuckling)
it's my first build. so yeah. - [austin] this is your first pc build? - yeah. - i'm here to get the 3070
graphic card for my son. - [austin] you're doing it for your son? - yes. it's gonna be his first pc build. - [austin] he's gonna
wake up in the morning and have a 3070 sitting there from dad. - yes! - [austin] dude, that is so cool. - yes - [austin] say that one more time - do you want context before
you put this on camera? - [austin] please, please give me all the context. (giggling) why am i the reason you're here? - well, let's just thinking, he invited, - [austin] you're doing this cause of ken? - he invited us out and we're just like, you know what? we'll stay for the card. - my first pc was actually one of your, i think it was your $800 build - [austin] oh really? - from like five years ago. - [austin] oh that's awesome man the line is moving. (exclaiming)
apparently.... you guys ready? (crowd cheering) there we go! - [austin] that....
- what's up - [austin] ken bullido - [ ken] yeah. - [austin] how are you feeling? - [ken] tired. (laughing) - cold - cold's a good one.
- yeah cold - very cold. dude had to wake me up to get the voucher. (giggling)
okay - i was actually knocked out. all right. so i hand you the voucher. - oh yeah. - [ken] okay. - so all you're gonna do
is actually end up going to the front register. (indistinct) - [ken] yeah.... - [austin] there you go - big bowler - [ken] thank you very much there it is. done! it's in my hands. i'm going to run away before
they regret that decision. (giggling) - [austin] you got the card? - yeah. (chuckling) finally. i mean kind of like unceremoniously, as it seems, everyone's getting a card. - but better, safe than sorry. - [austin] so what two days
in line to get the 3070 like this, - two days, no sleep. i slept for a total of maybe two hours. - [austin] (exclaiming) - and i was like 20 minute micro naps. and just every three hours just screaming my lungs out, getting everybody in line
(chuckling) - [austin] dude, you are
the mvp of this launch man. good job. - thank you (triumphant music) - all right. so i am back from micro center with the rtx 3070 founder's edition. so if we just open this up, (exclaiming) (all) look at that. - i really am proud of my mini itx build. i've spent a lot of hours just, you know, getting the cables right. it is in there. it is working the 3070 founder's edition. it looks really nice. it is up and running. i got my drivers updated. i don't know if i will ever wait multiple, multiple, multiple hours overnight in the cold, for a graphics card ever again. but, i can say that at the very least, the experience, was one of the more interesting ones that i've ever dealt with, with as far as a launch day is concerned. it's a little bit of a
calibrating experience, but also seeing how crazy it can get and also in a weird way, how the community can just band together to make things happen. and, today really showed that. and i'm super impressed with
literally everything today, even for as long as i've been waiting, you lose some games at fall guys, other times you get a graphics
card on your boss's dime.