- hello, my friends, and
welcome back to micro center for our most in-depth
gaming pc tutorial yet. grab yourself some popcorn,
a beverage of your choice, because we're gonna go incredibly in-depth on everything you need to
know about choosing components and putting together
your very own gaming pc. to start out with, i would recommend actually doing something a little bit different
than our previous years, which is to start with a graphics card. if you're not familiar with
what a graphics card is, it's the thing that
makes the games go brrr! so, for this build, we are
going with an msi rtx 3060, but you can just as easily
go with an amd gpu as well. red team have many options that are very much equivalent to nvidia. and the big thing to keep in
mind is to pick a graphics card that is available, and
that is inside your budget. i think this year, i
feel pretty safe to say it's going to be
difficult to get our hands on graphics cards for
the foreseeable future. so, if you find something, buy it. the next decision you're gonna wanna make is to pick your cpu. now, this is the processor, and, ultimately, alongside
the graphics card, one of the most important
components of your build. now, if chosen a mid-range graphics card, generally speaking, you
should probably get yourself a mid-range cpu, something
like a core i5 or core i3. and if you got yourself
a high-end graphics card, you may want a core i7 or core i9, but that's very broadly speaking. now, generally, if you are
playing games specifically, then you don't necessarily
need a core i9 for example. you don't need a ton of cores because, instead, you can
get away with something like maybe a core i5 for
that same kind of performance and save a whole lot of money. but on the other side, if you plan on using the
system for a very long time, or maybe you're gonna be doing a lot of video editing or something, the extra cores and clock
speed of a core i7 or core i9 could be very beneficial. on the flip side, if you just wanna do some
little more basic gaming, something like a core i3
could absolutely do the job. intel and amd both make it
pretty easy to understand the lower numbers are less powerful, the higher numbers are more powerful. because we've got ourselves an rtx 3060, we're gonna go a little bit more high-end for the purposes of this tutorial, so we're gonna go with an i7-12700k. now, if you look at the model numbers for all amd and intel cpus, you'll see that there's a
little bit of a code to it. so, "i7" means that this is
one of the higher-end chips. so it goes, i3, i5, i7, i9. just like ryzen goes ryzen
3, ryzen 5, ryzen 7, ryzen 9. the "12th gen," as well as the "12" here, just indicates what generation it is. so, this is the latest and greatest. "k" on the intel side means
that you can overclock. now, i will say, we're not
gonna get into overclocking. so, we're just gonna show
you how to build a pc and choose the components. but if you wanna be able to overclock and get the absolute most out of it, you're gonna want a k
series intel processor, and most amd chips are
gonna allow you to do that, regardless of which one you picked. notice how this box is very small? it's because there's only a cpu inside. now, for example, if i
were to pick out a 12400, so this is an i5, this actually
has the cooler in the box. generally speaking, when you're
buying the higher-end chips, they just expect that
you're gonna want to get a secondary cooler. and for our purposes, we
actually are gonna do that. but a lot of other chips
do come with at least a decent stock cooler in the box. though it's definitely something that you wanna keep in mind. if you're gonna go all out, you're gonna have to buy an extra cooler, but if you're building a little
bit of a more basic system, what's in the box is
actually totally fine. the next decision is to
choose your motherboard. now, the motherboard is a
very important component, pretty much all of the different bits and bobs inside your system are going to connect to the board, which is why we're gonna go
with this msi pro z690-a. now, there are a few things
you should pay attention to when it is time to
choose your motherboard. first and foremost, does it
work with your processor? now, all graphics cards, well, unless they're made
in like 1997 or something, will work with pretty
much any motherboard. that's not a really huge concern. the big thing is to
make sure that your cpu and the socket is compatible. so, for our build, the easy way to look is to go to this little
sticker on the top, "supports 12th gen intel core processors." boom. we know that this will
at the very bare minimum work. however, look closely at that sticker. you see this one right here? look at this, oh, i don't know,
the z590 supports 11th gen. the sticker's almost exactly the same, except it says "11th" instead of "12th." so, it is definitely worth
double and triple-checking to make sure that you have a motherboard which will support your processor. now, other things to consider when you're choosing your
motherboard are the sizes. so, the three main sizes for motherboards. there's itx, which is the smallest, there's microatx, which is a middle, and then there's, of
course, full-size atx, which is what we've got here. most builds are probably
gonna wanna do atx, that's what the vast
majority of chassis are. if you're building like a regular mid-size or a full-size tower, this is the move, it's gonna give you the most
expansion, blah, blah, blah. however, if you do wanna do a smaller form factor build or something, you may wanna go smaller. most important is to make sure that the size of your motherboard is equivalent to the size of your case. one other very important thing to consider is what kind of ram you
are going to be using. so, for amd this is not really a problem. and for pretty much all the
last few years of intel, it's not a problem. however, for the latest
12th generation intel chips, they actually support two
different kinds of ram. you can use the ddr4, which
has been around for many years. it's a little bit more cheap, but also it's much, much
easier to get your hands on, or you can get the maximum
performance using ddr5. now, there are pros and cons to both, ddr5 is faster, but more expensive, a little hard to get your hands on, but you need to make this decision right now when you
choose your motherboard. because even though you can
get a ddr4 or ddr5 motherboard, it's only gonna be one
or the other, right? we're gonna be using
this tutorial with ddr5 because it is the latest technology. but honestly, feel free to go with ddr4. if you can find yourself a board, they're usually gonna be cheaper. the ram is certainly gonna be cheaper. you're losing a little bit of
performance, it's not crazy. but, for the purposes of this tutorial, we're gonna show you the
pretty much cutting edge, most up-to-date system that we can, which means ddr5 and a
ddr5-specific motherboard. speaking of ram, that is our next decision
that we need to make. there are a few things to keep in mind, but it's actually not super complicated. so, of course, first and
foremost, ddr4 versus ddr5, you gotta pick whichever one you want. beyond that, you need to choose the speed, the rgb, the amount of ram. there's a few other things involved. the first one is just picking
how much ram you want. eight gigs is the absolute
bare minimum you're gonna want. and realistically, in 2022, you should be aiming for
16 gigs if at all possible. if you're getting ddr4, we're talking like 60
bucks for some 16 gig kits. so, don't get too stressed on trying to save a few bucks on ram, try to get at least 16 gigabytes. on top of that, the speed is important. generally speaking, amd systems are a little
bit more sensitive to the ram speed than intel, so you may wanna go up to
3200 or 3600 on the amd side, but because we're choosing intel and because we're choosing ddr5, it makes our lives a lot more simple. now, for this, we're gonna
be going with 64 gigs of this crucial ddr5. now, the other thing you wanna
consider when choosing ram, make sure to get at least dual channel. now, that will make a difference, regardless of whether
you're using intel or amd. so, basically, don't be tempted to just buy a single stick of ram, because it's cheaper and
you can expand more later. you're gonna get more performance if you buy a least two sticks of ram then you can run in dual channel mode. next up, let's choose our case. this is the fun part
because this really is the most aesthetic part of your system. and as you can see, there
are hundreds and hundreds of different options for a case. remember, there's the atx, microatx, and itx motherboard sizes. make sure that you get a case which will equivalently
those different sizes. so, for example, this fits
a full atx motherboard, meaning that we can put
any of those sizes inside and we will be a-okay. on top of that, make sure
that you have enough room for whatever other
components you need inside. so, generally speaking, most cases will fit most
graphics cards, but not always. some graphics cards are really big, some cases are a little bit small, so you may wanna take a look at that. and think about your cooling. this is probably one of the big ones. if you are doing a mid-range system, you probably don't need a ton of fans and aios and all this kind of stuff. but, on the other hand, if
you're building an rtx 3090 and core i9, and all this kind of stuff, you're probably gonna
want some space in the top or on the front for radiators and whatnot. so, think a little bit about
how high-end your system is, and whether or not the cooling in the case can either support it and/or if you wanna be able
to add additional radiators or fans to then help improve
the cooling of that system. so, for now, we're gonna go with the 205, which is right here. with this case, we had not only glass, but we also have room to
mount a radiator up top. we have an exhaust fan, as
well as one fan on the front. so, you can obviously mix and
match this however you want. continuing on, it is time to
choose our storage device. now, i say "storage device,"
you should buy yourself at ssd. now, if you have an old
hard drive laying around and you wanna use it, not
as your actual boot device, but you just wanna have extra
storage, whatever, feel free. however, don't run your operating system off of a hard drive in 2022. ssds are cheap, fast, and pretty much better
in every possible way. so, we're gonna actually
pick out two ssds today. first off, we're going
to choose a 980 pro. now, this is an m.2 ssd. this is, for the vast majority of people, the kind of ssd that you
should be using in your system. they're not that much more expensive, they're far easier to install, and you are going to
get the very best speeds with an m.2 ssd. specifically, with the 980 pro, this is one of the fastest ssds you can get, period, right
now, highly recommended. however, you may also
wanna is a sata drive. so, that is where the 870 qvo comes in. now, this is an older school approach. so, the way to install a sata ssd is the same as a sata hard drive. and even the same if you're
installing a sata optical drive for like dvds and blu-rays and stuff. so, i'll show you how to
use it for this tutorial. if you've got an old ssd laying around or an old hard drive laying around, feel free to install it. what we're gonna do, is
we're gonna install windows on our fastest ssd, and we're gonna just use this for storage. but, generally speaking, you should probably be picking
yourself up an m.2 ssd. next decision we need to make, you've gotta keep that
cpu of ours nice and cool. so, there are a number of different ways that you can go about this. so, if you're going with a
low to mid-range processor, you actually can use the stock
cooler that comes in the box. you might not be able to
overclock or push it super hard, but, honestly, those stock
coolers are totally fine. for one-step up above that,
is to do an air cooler. so, a cheapish air cooler will still give you more performance, more cooling capability
through your system, it'll look nicer, and won't
really break the bank. however, if you're gonna go
with a higher-end processor, especially when it comes to something like the 11th and 12th gen stuff,
or like a ryzen 9 or whatever, you're gonna be pumping some serious power through that chip. and while an air cooler will work, oftentimes you're gonna wanna
consider doing one of these, a liquid cooler, also
typically known as an aio. now, these come in a
lot of different sizes, a lot of different
variations configurations. it gets a little bit complicated, but there are a couple things to consider. now, because the new
intel 12th gen processors are fairly new, you wanna make sure that whatever cooler you
pick will work for it. on top of that, think a
little bit about how powerful of an aio or whatnot that you need. so, they usually come in
a couple different sizes. so, you can do a 120, you
usually don't wanna do. a 240, which is gonna fit in most cases. or you can go all the way
to something like a 360. it all depends on how many fans and how thick the radiator is. so, this is where you
gonna definitely wanna consult with the box of the actual pc case that you've chosen, and then choose it
cooler, which looks nice, that fits in your budget, and that will be able to cool
your processor accordingly. usually speaking, though, 240 or 360 is the sweet spot when it comes to aios, and we will be picking
a white lian li galahad for this particular
build to match your case. now it's time to power our beautiful brand new gaming pc system. one of the most important things is just the amount of
wattage that you need. as you can see, there's a wide variety. you can go from 500, 650, 850, 1,250. the easy way to tell is actually usually
using your graphics card. so, the graphic card will always tell you the minimum that it needs. and oftentimes for
something like our build, we can probably get away
with a 600 and 650 watt, something like that. i'm actually gonna go with a 750 watt, just to give ourselves a
little bit of headroom, because especially if you're
gonna be reusing components and rebuilding your system over the years, it's always nice to
have a little bit extra on your power supply, so you know that you can
reuse this for the next build even if you get an rtx 5080
or something like that. now, what you've chosen the power supply or at least the wattage that you need, there are only a couple of other things you need to keep in mind. see this little sticker here? "80 plus." you want to see that on your power supply. now, there are different levels
of 80 plus certification. usually, bronze is a good place to start. even white is fine. but gold is sort of like a
good sort of mid-range option. it generally means that you're
gonna get a power supply which is high-quality, efficient, gonna last you quite a while. the last thing to
consider are your cables. so, again, when it comes
to your graphics card, 'cause the graphics card's
usually the problem here, make sure that you have enough
leads from your power supply to take care of your graphics card. this has four pci 6+2 pins. that means that this is gonna work with basically every
graphics card ever made. you may also wanna
consider picking up a copy of microsoft 365 family. not only do you get all of
the premium office apps, but you're also going to get one terabyte of onedrive cloud storage you can share with up to six people. and now it's time to go
build ourselves a gaming pc. friends, it's time! and thanks to our very kind
sponsors, micro center, they are running a promotion right now. the next time you're in-store, you can pick yourself up
a free 240 gigabyte ssd. just check out the link
in the description, and all you need to do is, well, sign up. and so, the very first thing you should do is to acquire your tools. i forgot mine this morning, so i found the screwdriver in my bag. you, however, should be more prepared and have a screwdriver
that isn't terrible. - [ken] well, first of all, jeremy, you have an ifixit literally right there. - those are not my tools. those are not my tools.
- you're not jeremy? - i'm not jeremy. i'm not gonna steal tools!
- what are you doing here? what are you doing here? - little pro-tip, when it
comes to opening case boxes, flip it upside down, don't be a hero. thankfully, this is
not a super heavy case, so it's actually very easy to open up. so, i always like to start with the case. the first thing is just to
start stripping it down. i'll tell you one of the worst
things about building a pc, losing a little tiny screw in your carpet and you'll never find it again. so, don't build on carpet. also, don't shock your
components with static. and most importantly,
don't lose your screws, 'cause you'll never find them again. - [ken] you'll find them in
10 years when you accidentally step on them.
- when you step on it? yeah.
(all laughing) so, here we've got our sort of main area where we're gonna be
putting our motherboard, graphics card and everything, but we'll also wanna flip it around and take off the other side. this is where we're gonna run
pretty much all of our cables. so, just open up the case with
the front and this back panel and you should be fine. now we have access to pretty much all of our various different components. and you'll also see we
have some extra goodies. so, here we have our manual,
which may or may not be useful, but it's always nice to
kind of keep that around. and importantly, you'll
also have your hardware. keep these handy. we will
come back for these later. with our case ready, the
first thing i like to do is prepare the power supply. we open up our power supply. you'll find a few things in here. usually, don't really need the manual. so, because this is a semi-modular supply, what we'll see is that some
of the cables we can attach, but we only need to use some of these and i'll explain them later. and then we have the power supply itself. so, you can see that some... i just linused that, didn't i? so, with the semi-modular supply, these are the cables
that we are pretty much going to need regardless. so, these are already attached. and you can see that you can
connect additional cables, if you need them, right over here. now, on top of that, before
you toss your power supply box, take a look for the screws. these are always included
in the power supply. and quite honestly,
they're very easy to miss. sometimes they get underneath
the foam or whatever. so, when you're pulling everything out, make sure to grab the four little screws that come in the baggy along with them. so, before you install your power supply, you do need to decide what
orientation it goes in. so, you see that there's
a large fan on one side. now, usually, the power
supply will install either facing up or down. but you just wanna think about this fan as in terms of it needs some airflow. so, every case is slightly different. now, for i would say the
majority of cases these days, you're gonna put it on the bottom, and you can see there's a
little sort of mesh panel here, which means that that
will perfectly give us some airflow from the bottom. you just wanna make sure
that wherever your fan is, it can get access to air. so, you know, if it's
here, it can breathe here. or if you have a mesh
panel, whatever the case is, just make sure that this
is not going straight against the bottom metal component there. although, i would hope
that you'd look at that and you'd realize that that's not right, unless you're "scrapyard
warsing" it. (laughs) so, once you've decided what orientation the actual power supply needs to go in, it's time to screw it in, except if you have a modular
or semi-modular supply. so, you can see with this supply, we have a couple of cables that
are already attached, right? so, these are cables that
you always need regardless. however, all the rest are optional. so, you wanna take a quick look at the components that
you have for your system and which ones you actually need to use. so, for example, if i
grab my graphics card. you need an eight-pin as
well as a six-pin, right? so, we wanna make sure that we have those on a power supply before we install it, which is simple enough. they've thankfully color-coded it. so, you can see here, we
have a pcie power connector. this is what you need for a graphics card. so, figure out however many pins you need for your graphics card and grab those cables
and install them now. so, we're gonna line it up and go, boom. look at that. now we're
playing with power. this sata power. so, this is what you will use for generally speaking hard drives, ssds, as well as optical drives. "hard drive, sata, floppy." it kind of has it all right here. so, we just line it up, click it in. and then that actually should be all of the different cables we need. so, to install our power
supply, it is very simple. and for this case, what we're gonna do is we're gonna slide it in. now, you'll see that with these cables, it's gonna get slightly in the way, so just make sure they're slightly tucked so that you're not
completely fighting them. and you see, we can slide
it in from the side. now, i will say that some cases are gonna be slightly different. so, some cases actually have
a little bracket in the back that you wanna screw into the power supply and then you slide it in. so, just check your case manual if something doesn't look right, but with this one, it's very
standard, very straightforward. what we're gonna do is when
we come around to the back, you just wanna make sure
this is aligned correctly. so, there's a little
panel i can remove here, but, honestly, most cases don't have that. so, i'm gonna leave it there just to make my life more difficult, and to making a more
representative tutorial on how to line this up. there are four screws that will attach your
power supply to the case. and there should be if
you look right here, there's a hole on the
top left top, top right, bottom right, bottom left. very simple. at this point, grab that
little baggy of screws that came with your power
supply, grab your screw, and start screwing it in, in one corner. doesn't matter which one you start with. however, this is where you should use the cross pattern method. so, as you can see here,
as we screw one in, it starts to pull that tight
to the top of the case. however, you don't wanna actually do this just going around in a circle. and this actually goes for
a lot of things in life, but specifically when it
comes to pc components, and really when it comes
to cpu coolers and stuff, you should always go
from opposite corners. that way you're gonna be
applying even pressure to your actual system. for power supply doesn't actually matter, but this is just good habits to get into. so, with that, we have our
power supply installed. so, you can see here,
we've got our iec lead. this is what you're
gonna plug into the wall. we have our switch. just a little heads up,
leave that switch on. just leave it on. you're gonna forget it later. turn it on. don't plug it in yet,
but leave the switch on. so, with our case out of the way, now it is time to grab our motherboard. so, we're gonna put
the next few components all inside the board itself. and actually, what i like to do is, i actually like to use
the box of the motherboard to use as sort of my test bench. so, one thing you should keep in mind, computer components and static electricity don't necessarily mix well. so, generally speaking, when you're touching things
like the motherboard, you should try to grab it by the more like metal components and whatnot. don't be super scared, it's not crazy fragile
or anything like that. what we will need is
the instruction manual, which is helpful, or at
least keep this handy. we also wanna grab the i/o shield. so, this is what goes
on the back of our case so that all your ports will come through. let's just toss it off to the side. and then there's gonna be
a bunch of other stuff. so, you'll see some little screws. just grab all of this and
put it off to the side. aren't you ready to improve
your life with the gaming pc? well, find this useful,
make sure you subscribe and ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling button for other fine tutorials like how not to build a gaming pc in 2022. with the motherboard, you
can start building now. however, if you've
never built a pc before, let me walk you through
a few of the things that you should pay attention to. now, if you look at this,
it's pretty complicated. there's a lot of stuff going on here, but most of it isn't
really relevant for you. and once you're building a
very simple system like this, there's only a few main things that you need to pay attention to. first and foremost, the cpu. so, this is where your
processor is installed. now, amd and intel are slightly
different in this respect, of if you look at this one here. so, i'm gonna pull the little arm back, so you can see it's just
sort of spring-loaded. now, you look here, there are
a bunch of little pins here. you see that? these pins, you
do not want to touch or bend. that will cause a big problem. however, if you're building an amd system, there are the pins actually on the cpu instead
of the socket, right? so, in that case, you don't wanna touch
the bottom of that cpu. regardless, all of this stuff, just don't touch it in general. but just keep in mind that if you knock it or cause a problem or whatever, those pins look misaligned for any reason, you're probably gonna
have a big, big issue. other things to pay attention
to is your ram slots. different boards will
have different amounts. so, four is the most common. the main thing you wanna
pay attention to here is what order you want
to install your ram in. now, some like this, if
you look very closely here, you'll see it says, "first." so, it says, "a2 and b2 first," which would be the second and fourth slot. that's pretty common for modern boards. if you have a little sticker like that, a little graphic on it, it will tell you in what
order you wanna do it. you pay attention to that. if you have any doubt, check the manual for your motherboard. working our way down is where you install your graphics cards. so, these are the pci slots. so, you'll see, we actually
have a number of them. you pretty much always
wanna use the top one. and you can see this one's
actually made out of metal versus the plastic ones here. this is what you are going to
install your graphics card in. but these additional ones can be used for wifi cards or
capture cards or whatnot. but for this build, we're
only going to be installing a graphics card right here. and on top of that, there are a number of different m.2 slots. so, you can see that we
have a couple of them that are exposed, so there's
one right here, one right here, and one right here. you could always spot them because not only do you
have all these little pins, but also you have these
little screws, right? so, the ssd would go right here, it'd go right here, or go right here. most motherboards will have a little cover over at least one of the m.2 slots, which is you'll wanna use, mostly because it's got a little
thermal pad on the bottom, just to use as a little
bit of a heat sink. but you can see, it looks
exactly the same on the bottom. continuing on, there are
a few power connectors you should pay attention to. so, i'll go over these again when we actually need to plug things in, but just so you know, up top left, you'll generally find your pci power specifically for your cpu. so, different boards will
have different configurations. some have four pins,
some have an eight-pin, and some of the higher-end
boards will have dual eight-pin. coming around to this side is the most important power
connector on your board, which is the 20+4 pin. this is the main power
for the motherboard. so, while these work
specifically for your cpu, this is what powers
basically all the rest of it. so, just keep in mind that
that is always 100% of the time going to need to be plugged in. now, from there, those are the most important
things on the board, but because we've got it out here, let me show you some of the other things that we will be using later. so, you go over to the top right, you'll see a bunch of fan headers. so, you'll see that they all are labeled. so, there's a little cpu
fan here, a pump fan, system fan one, two, three,
et cetera, et cetera. this board actually has
a lot of fan headers. lower-end boards
generally only have a few. the thing is, this is
where you will install fans for not only your cpu, for maybe your aio. maybe you'll wanna plug
it in for case fans. you can kind of configure
it however you want, but pay attention to where
your fan headers are. so, for example, we have a bunch on the top right of the board. we have some on the bottom,
we also have one over here. usually, you'll wanna
plug in the fan headers that are closest to the case. so, for example, this one up here is great because you'll have a fan
right here for your exhaust, you can just plug that in. the best thing about these
connectors, they're very simple. because you see this little notch here that covers the first three
pins, it can only go in one way. and you can use a three-pin or a four-pin fan in these headers. now, over to the right side, we also have a couple of usb connectors. pay attention to where the
usb headers are on your board. so, there are three
different kinds of headers. so, this long sort of black
one, this is a usb 3.0 header. so, these are for usb-a ports. beside it, we have this
little silver connector, which is for usb-c. not all boards have usb-c, and also, not all cases have usb-c. so, obviously, whatever
configuration your board and your case have is what you wanna do, but just keep in mind where those are. and then, if you come to the
bottom, you'll see usb 2.0, which has the little usb thing thankfully kind of printed on the bottom. so, this is a 5+4 pin. so, you can see there's one little pin that's been knocked out. and as i will show you later, the usb 3.0 header is bad. i don't like it. it is very easy to break. i've broken many of these before. so, pay attention for now where they are and i'll show you how to not break it or potentially break it later. other things you wanna pay attention to is the audio connector. so, this one is just the labeled "jaud1." that is where you're gonna plug
in the audio for your case. so, if you look on the front of the case, you'll see that you're
gonna have a headphone and a microphone jack,
that's where that plugs in. so, if you ever have
any problems with that, you just wanna check to make
sure that it's fully seated. and like most of these cables,
they only go in one way, so you can't put them in incorrectly. because we are taking advantage
of a sata ssd as well, we're gonna be taking
advantage of these sata ports. so, this board has six. so, there's two here and
there are four on this side. so, this is what you would
plug in an ssd, a hard drive, an optical drive, that kind of stuff here. sata's definitely a little bit
of an older school connector. and honestly, i wager
most builds these days don't even need sata, but if you do need to
connect any of those things, that's where those ports are right here. before you put your
motherboard in the case, just make a mental note of
where these various different things are on the motherboard. - [ken] 'cause once it's all
in, it's hard to put 'em all and figure it out, right?
- it's hard to see. even with the light,
you're looking around. i mean, look at this. there are a lot of little tiny things all over the place. so, it just makes sense to
spend a little bit of time before you actually really
kind of throw the board in, to learn where each component
is, where each cable is, all of that kind of fun stuff. let's install ourselves
a processor, shall we? this part seems intimidating. and i mean, to be fair,
if you do it wrong, you could ruin your
entire build and be sad. but if you do it right,
you're fine. so, no pressure. here is our 12700k. now, if you look in the back, you can see that, because this
is intel, there are no pins. so, there are a bunch of pads because the pins are on the motherboard. but keep in mind that if
you're building with amd, it's the reverse. so there are a lot of pins here, which you do not want to touch, and there are no pins on the board. before we install that, we're gonna go ahead and
pull our arm back here, open up our socket. now, you see this little
plastic protector? leave that there. that'll actually pop off
automatically once we're ready. so, we'll just pull this back and you see that our pins are exposed. so, now we wanna open up
our cpu, little plastic. don't grab it by the
bottom, grab it by the side. there's always a little notch. so, it's kind of hard to see, it's actually very, very small, but you see this little
arrow on the bottom left? that is gonna correspond
with a little arrow on the bottom left of the socket. now, the thing with installing a cpu, you don't force it. you set it down gently. okay? so, we're gonna go ahead
and grab it from the side. we're gonna line it up here. and then just be very
gentle and slow, line it up, and then you just let it go. now we are gonna close the bracket. okay? so, we're gonna close it up. now, to be fair, this one hinges this way. the older intel and amd
will hinge the other way. it doesn't matter, just close it up. and you'll see that once
you grab it like that, you see it's gonna pull
that little arm down? we're gonna start pushing this. okay? so, this is gonna require force. this is okay to push. honestly, you're not gonna break anything. push it all the way down until it hooks underneath
this little clip here. then you can remove the
little plastic piece. congratulations, your cpu is installed and not going anywhere. pat yourself stuff on the back. have a celebratory
beverage of your choosing. and then let's put the
rest of the stuff in 'cause there's a lot more we
still need to do, like ram! ram is, i would say, one of the easiest things to do in a pc, whether you're upgrading an existing pc or building yourself a brand new one if i can open this package. along your ram, regardless of
what kind of ddr you're using, you'll see that there's
gonna be a little notch that's a little bit
past the halfway point, this is to ensure that
you can't install it the wrong direction. so, if i demonstrate that it is gonna be
going in the wrong way, it doesn't line up. so, i can push all i
want, it will not line up. so, i wanna flip it around to make sure that it actually does work. and you can see, lines up perfectly there. now, before you install your ram, again, just double-check that you're putting it
in the correct slot. so, either use that little
graphic on the ram slot itself or check your motherboard
manual to figure out if you need to be using like a1, a1, a4, whatever the case is. it'll always tell you, "hey,
use these slots first." now, once you've figured
that out, it is super simple. take your thumb on either side, right? and make sure that you've opened up the little retention
brackets if you've got them. so, ready, set. and there we go. that's it. you just push it in place. it'll usually make a little click sound. - like that?
- yes. i did it right. i did it right? no, i did it right. if you have any problems later on, oftentimes the ram is the issue, whether it's not seated or
right or whatever the case is. so, this is a great time, if you have any issues later
in the build, double check. that looking right? also, once you actually post the system, make sure that all of your ram
is actually showing up too. but, with that, we have not only our cpu but, also, our ram installed. let's get onto our ssd. watch how easy this is. this is a m.2 pci drive. so, if you have a sata ssd, you actually find that there's
a second little not there, which is really the only way
to visually see the difference. but for these purposes,
i'm just telling you about a pci m.2 ssd, which is the
vast majority of the ones that you're gonna find out right now. so, it's really, really simple. remember we took off this
little heat sink earlier? you see right here? you almost always wanna use the topmost drive slot
on your motherboard. so, what we'll do is we'll line it up, and you see that little notch corresponds to a little notch on the actual thing. so, it's very simple. i always like to put
it in slightly higher, so kinda like tilting
it up, then push it in. it should slide in a little bit. and then you'll push it down. and then you'll either screw it or, if you see actually right here, a little retention thing. so, i'm actually gonna use that. so, you see that it
kind of just sits there and then this little
plastic piece just rotates. that's it. no cables, no mess, nothing. this is definitely the way i recommend installing ssds in your system. that took what? 10 seconds? don't forget, once you're done, put this little thing back on. so, you'll see that this
has some plastic on it, remove the plastic before
you put the heat sink on. this is a little sticky.
this is a thermal pad. we'll just line it up here. and then grab those two screws
that we took off earlier and put that back into place. look at that. ssd installed! easy. if you wanna use a sata
ssd or sata hard drive, this is something we're
going to be installing later. so, put this off to the side. but, for now, we're actually
in really good shape. we have our cpu installed, we have our ran installed,
and we have our ssd installed. now, the next step is going to depend on what kind of cooler you
are using for your cpu. so if you're using, like i said, a more low to mid-range system, you may wanna use a stock cooler. and we're gonna show you how to do that. but if you're using something that's a little bit more advanced, a little bit more power-hungry, then you're probably
going to want to install a third-party cooler. so, we're actually gonna show
you how to do both right now. but we're gonna start with the easy one, which is the stock cooler that
comes with your processor, depending on if it actually comes with it. so, a stock cooler is
very simple to install. so, this is the latest intel version.
- ooh! that looks nice! - it's much heavier than the old ones. and you'll see that it uses four pins. so, this is super simple. now, before you install a stock cooler, pay attention to the
thermal paste on the bottom, don't touch that. but it's already applied for you, so you don't have to do anything. one thing before you
drop it all the way down. once that thermal paste touches the cpu, you don't really wanna wiggle
it or pick it up again. so, before you drop it all the way down, just make sure that you're lined up. it should be pretty straightforward. and this is the easy part. ready? grab this side, grab the opposite side, and push until it does (cpu cooler clicks)
that. - [ken] cross pattern. - cross pattern. and there we go. so, with that, we have a cooler installed. now, you do have to hook up the fan, which is gonna have a little lead that's sort of wrapped around. so, remember when i was talking
about all the fan headers that are all over the place? so, this is what an actual
fan connector looks like. so, you can see that there
are four pins on this with the little notches. although again, some fans have three. it's very simple to install. now, technically, you can put this into any of the fan
headers on the motherboard. however, there's always going to be one that is specifically meant for the cpu. just use that. it's what
you're supposed to do. i don't know, it technically
makes a difference. - it's labeled.
- it is labeled. so, you'll see "cpu_fan1," as
well as we have "pump_fan1." we're just gonna use cpu_fan1. it is super simple to install. so, you see those little notches? you just line it up and put it down. if you try to put it in upside down... actually, i've never tried that before, but it doesn't line up,
so it doesn't matter. if you're using a stock cooler, that took no time and was very simple. however, i'm gonna wager that a lot of you are going to use a third-party cooler. now, before we get into it, let me just say that every
cooler installs differently, unfortunately. so, you're gonna wanna look at the manual for your specific cooler. but we are going to show you broadly how to install aio in this video. whoo! actually didn't realize
it was white and silver. that looks pretty nice. so, we've got, obviously... so, this is the radiator.
that's where the hot comes out. - jesus christ.
(austin laughs) did they really pay you for this? "it's where the hot comes out." - the heat is dissipated using the aluminum fins of the radiator, if you want mr. smart speak. and on top of that, you've got your pump
and block combination. but we'll get into that in just a second. there are some other things that you will wanna pay attention to. so, first and foremost, fans. so, this uses two because it's
a 240-millimeter radiator. so, one 120 + 120 = 240. we also have an ad
absolute pile of hardware. and this is the real differentiator between different kinds of aios. there's amd hardware,
there's intel hardware. there's a bunch of different
ways you can install this. i would highly recommend to
find your instruction manual. this is 100% what you should
follow when installing an aio. just sort out intel versus amd in which socket type you're using. the backplates always just line up here. so, i've got the 1700. so, you can see right
here, it says, "lga 1700." if this is not included, or some kind of 1700 bracket
isn't included in your package, if the instructions don't
say anything about 1700 and you're building 12th gen intel, maybe hit up the manufacturer, usually, they'll send
you a plate or bracket or whatever you need free of charge. so, we line it up and just push it in, and you'll see that we have all four screws coming backwards. so, if you look on the backside, what you see is this backplate
is just gonna help support and give our actual aio
something to screw into. the big thing at this point,
before you do really anything, besides put that backplate on, find all of the hardware you
need and get rid of the rest, because you'll be very confused when you start using this one when you needed this one,
or whatever the case is. regardless of whether or
not you're using an aio, the next step is to start
putting your motherboard inside of your case. so, this is where the
white case comes in handy, because look how bright it is. look how easy it is to see and not lose black screws
in the black dark abyss. so, we're gonna lay this flat. you'll see that there are some fans that are already
installed inside the case. so, i'm gonna go ahead and just pull these cables out of the way, 'cause you don't want
this to accidentally get pinned underneath or something. just wrap that off to the side and same thing for the front one. from here, different cases are gonna do things slightly differently. so, thankfully, lian li has already done a lot of our work for us. so, if you take a look, there
are a bunch of standoffs. so, you see there's one,
two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, already pre-installed. now, what this means
is that theoretically, we can just take our motherboard, line it up, and screw it in. so, i'm gonna actually just make sure that those are correctly
aligned, which they should be. don't actually install it yet, but you can just use this
as a little test fit. so, all of our standoffs
are already installed. now, this is not always
going to be the case. some cases don't have
the standoffs installed and some cases have them in
different configurations. because this is an atx board,
that's pretty standard. but if we're using a
microatx board, for example, we would need to move these standoffs. so, that's fairly simple. the case will come with hardware that will give you a little tool to be able to unscrew them
with your screwdriver. the big thing is these are brass and they're gonna go in
between your motherboard and the actual steel of the case. the only thing we wanna do before installing our actual motherboard is to pull that i/o shield out. now, to be fair, some other boards actually
have this pre-installed. so, what you'll see is, right here, these are all of our
ports that are gonna be sticking out the back of the case. you'll see that, obviously,
there's a bunch of gaps, so that will line up something like that. if there's already an i/o shield on that, you can skip this step,
but it is very simple. just line it up to make sure, 'cause, obviously, it will
go in in either direction and you don't wanna install it backwards. so, we'll see that we
want to put it like that. then all you need to do is walk over here and install it here. this is one of those things
where you just push it until it clicks into place. so, one, two. (panel clicking)
two. there we go. there we go. all right. also, i'm bleeding. i'm
not sure how i did that. - [ken] oh, my god! (laughing) - i have blood on the motherboard now. pro-tip, don't bleed
on your pc components. hello, friends. now that i have stopped the bleeding, let us continue building a gaming pc. so, when it comes to lining up the ports, the main thing is to make sure that everything is aligned correctly and none of the little the metal pins are actually in the way. i've had it happen in the past, where you get it all done,
your system's ready to go, then you go to plug in your ethernet and you realize that there's
a little piece of metal that is blocking your
actual cable from going in. just visually double-check
every single the port, maybe do it twice just to make sure that everything is
completely free and clear before you actually
screw the motherboard in. so, with your motherboard lined up, go into the bag of hardware
that came with your case, that you carefully put off
to the side and didn't lose. and you're gonna look for some
screws to actually mount it. it's really hard to do this
without my index finger. so, what you'll see inside the case screws that come with your case, there are a bunch of
different types of screws. if i can open it up, i'll show you which one you're
actually supposed to use! i caught it. i caught it. i caught it. we're fine. we're fine. so, you wanna grab a few of these screws, in this case, we want, i believe nine, and then you just wanna screw
your motherboard into place. so, just like i was showing you earlier, you wanna do this in
sort of a cross pattern. so, i always like to
start with the top right, mostly because that's the
one that's easiest to reach. screw it in pretty tight,
not like all the way, because sometimes you need to
make some slight adjustments and then we will grab another screw. go down to the bottom left. usually, once you get you
or two screws into place, the board's not going anywhere, but before you tighten
everything else down, do one last double check. are all of your fans from your cables, from your fans, your ports, everything should still be free and clear. if anything is penned, if
anything doesn't look right, now's the time to fix it. 'cause trust me, once we
install everything else, you're not gonna wanna pull all apart when you forgot you pinched a cable or you covered up a port or something. so, from here, we just
wanna just get screwing. so, with our motherboard installed, this is the point in which the tutorial is going to diverge, my friends. so, if you are not installing an aio, please fast forward the
video to this point. or unless you care about
how to install an aio. if not, stick around. so, there are a few different things that are gonna change from here on out. so, by removing the
top little dust filter, there is one screw on the very
top that we're going to undo. now, this is going to open
up a little bracket for us where we can install the aio without having to, well, reach around. now, you can see here
that we're gonna just slide this back and drop it. this is what we're gonna
install our radiator too. so, you can see it's gonna
mount something like that. now, this makes it a lot easier because that way, we can
actually put this on, install our fans, basically do everything, and then we slide this into
the case at the last second. so, to install the aio,
the concept is simple. so, this is our radiator,
it doesn't matter what size. then, if you look to the bottom here, we have our combination of our pump, as well as our cpu block. so, this is the part that
actually touches the cpu. and then it pumps the
liquid through the radiator. most of the time you will
mount the cpu like this and you'll put the actual radiator in the top part of the case. and every case will tell you what the configuration
that it supports is. obviously, that's upside down, but you can also
theoretically do something like this as well. there's no right or wrong way to do this. it does depend on your case,
and again, where you have fans, and ultimately, kind of
what you think looks best. the first place i like to
start is by installing my fans. now, again, there's no wrong
way of installing fans, really. you wanna make sure they're uniform, so you don't wanna have one facing one way and one facing the other way. that's a bad idea. but the airflow direction is dependent on how you wanna set
up your configuration. but the other thing is most
fans these days are rgb, which means that you
might wanna prioritize the fancy rgb showing versus maybe sandwiching them on the top. there's a lot of ways you can set this up. we're gonna do the simple,
straightforward way that most people should do it, which is gonna be a fan,
radiator, exhaust on the top. keep it simple. one thing you wanna keep
in mind when mounting fans, cables are a little bit long and you wanna make sure
that it's nice and neat. so, if we're installing
our radiator like this, take the fans and make sure
they're running out the back. and what you'll see is
there are cable channels built in pretty much
all cases on this side. so, you can easily run the
cables through the back, and then in the back of the case, you can connect everything as needed. but for now, we're just
gonna line these up. go into the hardware
that comes with your aio and you wanna pick out some screws. so, there are a couple of
different types of screws. so, there's a long one, and i'll pull out a short one as well. the long one is to mount it
from the bottom side, right? so, this screw goes all the way through. - [ken] think about it
has to go through the fan- - exactly.
- and onto the radiator. - yes. like before, you just
wanna use a cross pattern. so, just get your first two started. you don't have to get them
super, super tight or anything, but just get it in
there to start out with. with the second fan, exact same thing. you grab four more of these screws. and if you're using a 360 or something, you just keep adding fans until
you fill up your radiator. all right! next! let's install our radiator into our case, or more specifically in our case, the little plate that
goes inside our case. so, this part, very simple. so, you'll see that there are screw holes. there's basically eight on the top. so, there's basically four per side. just like the way that we
installed the fans on this side, we wanna install the plate here. because we have this plate, this is very simple to do on the outside. if you are directly
attaching this to the case, you still wanna do this next, but basically, you have to support this 'cause otherwise, it's just
gonna be dangling everywhere. it's doable. it's fine. it's just kind of annoying 'cause you're on one hand,
holding and screwing, and then you've got this
thing that's in the way. it's much, much nicer if you
have something like this, that you can do it outside the case for. oh, my god. i just cut myself. oh, i almost cut myself. - [jared] you need to see a therapist. - before we screw the whole thing down, let's just make sure that it nicely fits. so, i'll just slide this in like so. if you look under here, what you'll see is that
we have space, right? so, there's a little bit of
a gap on the top of the board where the fan is not getting in the way. that's not always the case though. sometimes radiators might
be a little too thick or there's very little room to run cables. so, i'll immediately say for
our eight pins for our cpu, that's gonna be kind of hard to reach. so, this will be a time where
if you see any cable up here, they're gonna be really
difficult to reach, you may actually wanna run them now. i'm not gonna do that
for the purposes of this, just to make sure this tutorial is clean and easy to understand. however, for you, who don't
have to make a very detailed 57 minute tutorial on youtube, think about running any
kind of cables on the top before you mount this because it will just be much,
much easier to do it now, instead of later, when i'm gonna be cursing
myself at reaching my finger at an eight-millimeter gap to run a cable. so, with our aio properly installed, with the tubing coming out the way that it is gonna make our lives easiest, something you should
definitely think about before you install 16 screws
to mount this all in position, next step, it is time to actually put this directly to our cpu. so, the nice thing about the lian li is that it actually has like
a rotating little bezel. and also, it comes with
this little magnetic piece, if you don't want the lian li logo, but we're just gonna leave that out. now, the thing to consider here is, first of all, the mounting hardware is gonna be different, right? so, we're using some of
these little black screws and the little springy things, definitely check the instruction manual, every socket and every cooler is gonna do this slightly differently. so, for us, it's pretty simple. there's just, i mean, really four screws and four little like springy
things to hold it in. - [ken] sometimes it's like latches. - yeah, there's latches,
all kinds of crazy. before we do this, there's a
very important thing to do. if you look at the back here, some coolers have
pre-applied thermal paste, usually, it's fine. like the stock cooler, for example. however, most high-end
coolers and aios do not. you have to apply it yourself. so, first step, remove the plastic. i like to do this at the very end, right before about to install the cooler, but remove the plastic. you wanna make sure that
the copper is touching and not the plastic in between. not that i've ever forgotten to do that. also, just let it dangle there. don't actually let it touch anything since you don't want it to get all dirty. i'm gonna lay this case down, just to get a little bit
better, sort of, view of it. so, basically, all coolers are gonna come with some thermal paste. it's usually not like the
greatest paste in the world. it's totally fine for us. you don't wanna use a
ton of thermal paste. now, generally speaking, more is not gonna be a huge problem, but you don't need to
make a giant bit of goop. so, the old way was to do just
a little bit in the middle. however, these newer processors
have gotten big enough that, actually, there's
other ways to do it. i've actually started
doing the dot approach. so, basically, do four little dots. one, two. a little too big. three, four, and one in the middle. last thing before we put this on, just like with the other stock cooler, once you like touch that thermal
paste with the copper here, once you start to apply pressure, you wanna make sure that
that pressure stays. so, don't put it on until
you're really ready. grab our screws. and so these are the ones
that go for these small ones. so, we're gonna get our
backplate fully ready. so, mount that like so. again, follow the
instructions in the manual. this is a very easy installation on the galahad, i will
say, compared to most aios. our hardware is ready. now, it's actually pretty simple. we're gonna take our block. we're gonna line it up, again, making sure that all of our cables and tubing are in the
orientation that we want. make sure that this fan cable, which decided to hop across the room, didn't actually get in our way. we're gonna go ahead and line this up and press it all the way down. once we do that, i'm gonna
use a hand to hold this down and start screwing with
our little springy bits. one, two, three, four. and i'm gonna push it
all the way down. okay? now, at this point, this
hand is not gonna move, and i'm gonna start using my other hand to screw it in place. we definitely recommend putting your pc on its side for this, it's
gonna make it a lot easier. no, with these, don't get
them super tight, right? so, i'm just gonna get
that somewhat tight there. and i'm gonna switch over. and i'm again, i'm gonna do
this in a cross path pattern. i've said cross pattern
a lot for this tutorial. i'll tell you, the cpu is the most important place to do this. you want to make sure
there's even pressure on that thermal paste to make sure that it
spreads out nice and evenly. that's about on there as tight as i wanna do with finger tight. so, now, i'm gonna grab the screwdriver and tighten them down
again in a cross pattern. and there we go! congratulations. you've got yourself an aio installed, short of the cables, which
we're gonna deal with later. now, it is time to
install the 2.5-inch ssd. now, this is optional. you may or may actually have
any 2.5 or 3.5-inch ssds, hard drives, optical
drives, what have you. but while they're not as
simple as that m.2 drive, they're very simple to install. so, the 2.5-inch form factor is typically what you find in ssd. a hard drive is usually
gonna be like a 3.5. it's just bigger and thicker. but the most important things are to look at the connectors on the end. so, they're two here. one is data. that is the smaller one. that is what connects from
here to the motherboard for the actual data. the larger one is the power. that goes to your power supply, which you can see is right here. the main things to keep in mind here, if you can see, especially on this side, they're both kind of notched, so they both have this little
downward bit on the end. that means that it only goes in one way, again, like most cables when
it comes to building a pc. so, we're gonna rotate
this around to the back. you'll see here if i get all
these cables outta the way, we have a couple of 2.5-inch
drive caddies, right? so, this is the easiest way to do it. now, if i was gonna install a hard drive, if you look down here, i would put it into one of
these 3.5-inch drive caddies. it's really a little bit more down to where you want to install drives, where you wanna run cables and stuff, but this, nice and simple,
it'll be hidden on the back. and we'll give ourselves
that additional two terabytes of still very fast, ssd storage. these typically just attach
once you take the screw off. (caddie clunks) you just pull them up. now, here, one thing you
wanna pay attention to is the orientation. so, you wanna make sure
that you have easy access to the sata power and data. so, i'm gonna look at this for a second. i think it'll make sense
to do it facing down, and then we'll run our cables like this. and then right up to the bottom. now, to install this, you're gonna use the screws
that come with your case. so, you'll see that we have a couple of these very small ones. and it's very simple. like always, we just wanna
line up each of our holes and connect it. just make sure this is firmly attached, regardless of it's an ssd
or a hard drive or whatever. hard drives, just usually, are
a little bit more important because they're moving components. so, if they're not mounted correctly, you may get vibrations and whatnot, but ssds are very straightforward. the easy way to do it is to just line this right back up
with where we found it. should kind of slot in. there we go! all right! so, now i will take the
screw and mount that back up. and we've got our ssd installed, but, of course, we need
to run our cables for it. so, this is the point where it's gonna be easiest to do that. so, the first thing i'm gonna
do is install the power cable. so, locate one of the sata power cables from your power supply. i've picked this one because
it's probably gonna be a little bit easier to
fold that cable over. and then we're gonna install
that on the larger connector. so, it only goes in one way. and unlike the data which
clicks, the power doesn't click. so, you just kind of push it in until it feels like it's flush. and there we go. we've got power. the next step is to grab
one of these sata cables that came with our motherboard, and we're gonna run that as well. and then you'll hear it (cable clicks) click into place. now, the last thing we need
to do to install this ssd is to run this end of the
sata cable to our motherboard. we'll run that vaguely
where it needs to be. it's easy enough to unplug
one of these cables later if we realize it's not the cleanest run. come around to the front side and you see our sata cable is right here. all right, now we just wanna connect this to one of the sata ports
on our motherboard. they are actually usually numbered, so you wanna plug it into one
then two then three then four, et cetera, et cetera. but, i'll be real, i don't think it makes
much of a difference. so, you can see, there we
go. we have our sata cable. and importantly, it's nice
and neat from the front, so it doesn't look like it's super messy. and there you go, you've got it yourself, an ssd or a hard drive installed. you probably don't need to do this. you could probably just
get away with an m.2 ssd, which takes all of five
seconds to install. but if you ever do wanna
install a hard drive or a regular ssd, that is how you do it. from here, it is time to, well, really start getting
everything buttoned up. you might notice that there's one very large component
missing, the graphics card. it's very tempting to install
the graphics card right now. don't fall for the trap. i mean, you can technically do it, but we have all the space,
all this room for activities. let's start running some cables, because, if we don't do it right now, we're gonna have to reach
around our graphics card and it's super annoying. pro-tip. first thing i always
like to stay art with, if you come around to the
back to your power supply, is the big guy, the 20+4 pin. so, you can see, it is the
largest longest connector here. because it's got the clip, it is only going to install one way. this is where i always like to start because as you can see,
it's just a thick cable. i like to put this in first and then run the other
smaller cables around it. if you try to do other
stuff, and then this later, sometimes it just gets in the way, but because this is our first one, we can run it underneath
pretty much everything. now, this always plugs into
the right side of the board. so, if you look at it from the side here, we wanna run it to right this point. so, what i'm gonna do is i'm
gonna thread this through, rotate it around, and
we can and plug it in. so, the clip is gonna be
always on the outside. so, just keep that in mind. it's a little dark, i'm sure,
but push it until it clicks. there we go. now, at this point, we
can deal with this later, but you usually can just kind of tuck some of the excess cable outta the way. but we won't worry about that. that is the most important cable, because that is what powers all the stuff. but we also need to plug in our cpu power, which also comes from our motherboard. so, it is a 4+4 pin. depending on your motherboard
and your power supply, you may have a four-pin,
you may have a 4+4, or you may even have two 4+4s. depends on the setup. you don't really need more
than the 4+4, usually. so, we're going to run this
to the top left of the board. so, again, this is one
of the thicker cables, so i'm gonna run this underneath. this case actually gives us a pretty generous amount of room. so, we're just gonna tuck
that here, run it up here. now, i have an aio in this system. if i was doing this in a way that was best for my own sanity, i would've run this cable
before installing the aio, but i'm gonna show you how to do it. 'cause, generally speaking,
if you don't do the aio, this is the point where you would do it. it's kind of tight back here, but you can see our 4+4 is in. what we're gonna do is
we're gonna plug that into one of these on the board. typically it doesn't matter if you only have one set of
cables from your power supply and two on your motherboard. you may wanna check the
manual to make sure, but typically speaking, you
can plug it into either one. and because these have
little clips on the side it is only going to go in one way. so, i'm gonna rotate it around, and wish that i would've
done this 20 minutes ago when i was installing the aio. next up, i like to install our fans, or specifically, plug them in. so, the nice thing about this board, it has a lot of fan headers. so, traditionally, when you have three, four, five fans in a
case, you'll need to use hubs. and a lot of times they
actually come with hubs. but if you can plug everything directly into the motherboard, it makes controlling it easier and there's just less extra
cables and nonsense to plug in. so, for our case fans, it's very simple, plug them into whichever
headers are closest. so, if you're installing an
air cooler, it's really simple. you just plug that in directly to cpu_fan. however, if you're using an aio, you're probably gonna have one of these. it's a three-pin that's
coming directly off the pump. and that is gonna go to
usually it's called pump_fan, or sometimes it's called cpu_opt, but you just wanna plug that into here. so, we have two different
fans coming off of our aio. now, you can plug these in
independently, but you shouldn't. instead, it comes with
this little adapter. so, basically, we will
plug the two into one. and just like all other fan headers, there's a little notch
that goes in one way. and then this will go into the
cpu slot on the motherboard, which means that the
motherboard can control when the fans need to be
ramped up or ramped down. unfortunately, the black
and the white cables look a little bit strange, but all of this is gonna
be hidden in the back so it doesn't matter. and again, it's a little hard to reach, but it's not too bad. and there you go. all four fans inside the
system are now connected. we'll cable manage later, but the most important thing for now, is to make sure that everything works. so, at this point, it might be tempting to start getting your zip ties
out and cleaning things up. do not do that. not only is that unlucky, but also you still may
need to make some changes. we don't know this all works. leave your cables mostly kind
of everywhere for the moment. make sure the system actually works. and then, at that point,
we will start going through and actually zip-tying things. trust me when i say don't get too eager. you might feel confident,
you might feel great. there's always a chance
that you forgot something, you need to run something
else, something's not working. let's just leave it as is for now. working our way down, let's pick up some of the
front panel connectors. so, on this case, it's
actually very simple. so, we have our usb 3.0 for the couple usb ports on the top, and we have our audio,
as well as our power led and our power switch. i'm gonna start out with the big one, which is the usb 3.0 header. this connector is bad. i don't like it. not only is it chunky, you have a little notch so
it will only go in one way. but make sure that you've got
this in the correct location. i have broken a number
of these in the past because when you go to pull them out, i'm not gonna show you 'cause
i don't wanna break it, it's just really easy to break pins or just pull the entire
plastic sleeve out. it's a bad design. the usb-c is better. usb 2.0 is better. it's just this guy. but, yeah, it is what it is. now, this board actually
gives us two options, which is pretty unusual. we actually can plug this in
on one of two different areas. but if you see right here, we've got one of our headers on this side, which is nice and neat. so, make sure, again, that
you've got it correctly located 'cause you don't ever wanna
unplug this if you can avoid it. lot of little pins, very easy to break, but once we line it up correctly... there we go. now we have our usb up and running. next, let's grab our
front panel connectors and our audio jack. if they're all side by side,
this would be really easy, but we actually need to
separate these ourselves. which is fine, but you wanna
make sure you do that first. so, i'm gonna grab our
audio. this is the hd audio. this is what you're gonna
have run your microphone, your headphones. and what you'll see about this is that it looks very
similar to the usb 2.0, except it has the pin knocked
out in a different way. but it'll always say, "hd audio." i'm gonna run this through
this little hole in the case all the way on the bottom left. and you'll see that you usually the audio is all the way to the
bottom left of the board. so, if you wanna see right here, it is the far left connector. so, it's fairly easy to spot and it should slide right into place. if it's not sliding in right to place with any of these connectors,
definitely double-check that they are in the correct locations. it's easy to be like,
"oh! it's not working!" you might just have it upside down. next step, you need to install
your front panel connectors. now, this is the fiddliest
part of the whole build. now, sometimes, there'll be a
little diagram on the board, but usually, you'll have
to dive into the manual. just essentially line up
each of the individual pins from the case to your
front panel connectors, keeping in mind that if
you look on the back, there's a little arrow
that denotes the positive. so, if ever a question,
you can flip it around. don't worry if you get something wrong, you could just rotate it around. but, if say you plugged your
power button in upside down, your system won't turn
on, you might freak out, and you forgot to flip a pin. very simple. just have patience
and double-check your work. we're looking pretty good now. the last thing we need to do before installing our graphics
card is to hook up our rgb. now, this is gonna vary
based on every single system, so i'm not gonna go into depth on it. check your instruction manual for whatever fine oem decides to give you a giant pile of cables/hubs
or whatever to make it work. thankfully, though, for
this, we can just hook it up with one single connector, and then we will connect
it to the motherboard using this guy. now comes the fun part! installing our graphics card. you'll see a bunch of
display-outs here. use these. i can't tell you how many
times people have messaged me saying that their graphics card or their system is
running bad or whatever, because they plugged into the hdmi or the displayport on
the motherboard instead. don't do that. that's
not the way to do it. plug into your graphics card,
which will be down here. so, i've taken the liberty of
removing our pci slot covers. and so, for this, what you'll want to do, is if you come around,
look for that top pci slot. so, you'll see here that
it's actually our second slot because the first one is where
we installed our ssd, right? so, instead of removing that top slot, we're gonna remove slot
number two and three. usually, that's what
you'll find on most boards, but just make sure when you start to line up your
graphics card in the slot, it will actually line up
in the correct orientation. now, most cases will let
you slide it directly in, however, some cases,
including this lian li, mean that you have to do a
little bit of extra work, mostly by removing this plate right here. so, this plate is what holds
your pci slot covers in place. so, all we need to do is
just unscrew this real quick, slide it out the way so that when we go to
install a graphics card, it has some space. look at that. installing a graphics card is dead simple. so, you'll see that there are a bunch of gold connectors here, for
power as well as for data, they will line up only one way. so, once you line them up correctly, just give it some nice sort of force until it clicks into place. (graphics card clicks) boom! look at that! now, we'll come back around to this side. we will grab our screws from
our case, which are right here. then you wanna screw your
graphics card into place. okay. that's in there nice and firmly. we'll tighten up this little plate to make sure that everything
doesn't slide anywhere. and next, we just need to
plug our graphics card in. i promise you, once
you've gotten this part, we are pretty much home free. this is the very, very
easy part of this build. so, we'll come around back. we'll grab our pcie connectors. these are red, which is very
helpful to be able to spot, but all we need do is route these through the back of the case. so, this graphics card needs
an eight, plus a six-pin. so, these are 6+2, so you can either put them
together for the eight or put them apart for this six. so, what i'm gonna do is i'm gonna do the outside one as our eight. and then we just line them
up, click them into place. and then i will take the second one, ignoring that extra pin,
it doesn't really matter since we don't need it
for this particular build, line up like this, and connect it. unfortunately, that may
mean that it might not be the best-looking cable
solution in the world, but, yeah, it works. no, my friends, is the best part. it's time to see if the build works or if you need to go back and check all your cables and connections. so, just before we start, make sure that your power
supply is plugged in, make sure that it is turned on, and make sure you have
at least a keyboard, ideally, a mouse, as well
as a monitor, all connected. and plug it into your
graphics card for the hdmi or the displayport, not the motherboard. once you've done that, we should be good to
press the power button and cross our fingers,
that are not bleeding. (button clicks) excellent. okay. so, first thing to do, check all of your fans that are spinning. so, we have one, two,
three, four spinning. the graphics card fans
will sometimes spin, although if they don't
spin that's actually okay. a lot of graphics cards,
especially the modern ones, don't have their graphics
card's fans spinning 24/7. so, next up, be patient.
give it about a minute or so. and ideally, on this display, it will fire up with something. if not, then we start troubleshooting. but we'll just... i'm sure we got it. oh, there we go. and the monitor's coming up. perfect. so, we'll hit f1. there we go. excellent! all right! that is
exactly what we wanna see. so, this is the bios, which means that everything
is showing up correctly. we have our 12th gen core i7 12700k. we have 65.5 gigs of ram. that's fine. we have our xmp. everything
is showing up correctly. i'll hop into storage real quick and see. we have not only ssd, our 980 pro, but, also, our 870 as well. congratulations, friends. if you see this, you have successfully
built yourself a gaming pc. but, unlike our normal
tutorials, it's not done yet because we still have a
few more things to go over. while we're in the bios, let
me show you a couple of things that are gonna be very important as you use your pc and tweak it. first and foremost, you
might wanna update your bios. so, you see, for us, our
bios date is the e7d25ims, which is from september of 2021. that's old! so, we'll
probably want to update that. now, every motherboard has a slightly different
way of doing this. for us, we would use m-flash, which i'm not gonna do at the moment. but usually, you'll just go
on the manufacturer's website, download the update file, put it on a correctly formatted
ssd or usb or whatever, plug it in, and then you'll
be able to update the bios from inside the bios. very important. usually, especially with
these 12th gen boards, you'll want to update
the bios pretty quickly. outside of that, there are
a couple of other things you'll probably wanna pay attention to, xmp being one of them. xmp is essentially a pre-overclocked profile for your memory. so, for us, it's actually
already set to 4,800 mhz, but, generally speaking,
you'll want to switch between one of the xmp profiles. for the exact details, you can check it out in
the motherboard manual or anything like that, but you'll usually wanna turn on xmp, or docp if you're
running an amd processor. we don't have an operating
system installed, which is where you're gonna
want a copy of windows. whether it be windows 10, windows 11, or, of course, you
could run linux as well. but, regardless, you need
to get it on here somehow. now, if you buy a copy
of windows like this, which has a usb key inside, you just plug it in and you
can install it that way. also, you can, if you
have the digital code or you have a dvd, there's a tool online
that microsoft provide, that allow you to create a usb, which is what i always like to do because it's always up to date,
a windows usb flash drive. you plug it in. i brought it. don't you... jared. i was prepared today. i have a fully up-to-date
windows flash drive here. and this is fully legal
because what you really need is the actual key that comes with this. plug this into our system. and then you'll wanna make sure that the boot priority is set correctly. so, right now, it's gonna try to boot off of one of our ssds, but there's no operating system. usually, when that's the case, it'll work its way down
to the usb hard disk, but i'm gonna manually just
move that up from here. so, there, hit f10. we're gonna hit "enable." and theoretically it will now boot off of our windows usb install, and then we can actually get
everything prepped and ready. easy! congratulations. you're a pc wizard, harry. so, after you go through the very straightforward windows prompts and select the correct drive to install windows 10 or windows 11 on,
you will land on the desktop. now, the first thing you should do is to download the regular
microsoft windows updates. it'll pull a lot of the stuff you need. i would also highly recommend heading over to your motherboard
manufacturer's website. so, in this case, we
would go to msi's site and download the specific
drivers for your motherboard. things like your ethernet
drivers, your chipsets drivers, that kind of stuff. - [ken] you're doing rgb,
it'll also have those as well. - absolutely. you wanna grab most of
the stuff from the site, all the utilities, and whatnot
that you actually need. maybe not some of the ones that you don't. on top of that, you definitely wanna download your graphics drivers. so, whether it's amd or nvidia, download the latest driver for your card and then get it installed here. on top of that, if you're at your friendly local micro center, you may also wanna pick up one of these, a microsoft 365 license, which'll you give you tons of stuff, including office, word, a
terabyte of cloud storage, that kind of stuff. you can get all that stuff activated alongside your windows license. speaking of windows licenses, i recommend if you are running
a 12th gen intel processor, to use windows 11. you can buy a windows 10
license and update it, it's totally fine. in fact, it's easier to find windows 10 keys than windows 11, but they work the same way regardless. the reason for that is that windows 11 has additional features built-in specifically for these
12th gen intel cpus, that include better thread directing for the efficiency and
the performance cores. it'll totally work on windows 10, 100% but, for me, i recommend
going with windows 11 to get the absolute most of the efficiency and specifically the responsiveness out of your 12th generation
intel core processor. but with that, my friends, you've successfully built
yourself a gaming pc. spent some time tweaking your rgb, doing your cable management, getting the whole system buttoned-up, let it finish downloading all the updates. but from here, congratulations. if you found this tutorial helpful, definitely be sure to
subscribe to the channel. and of course, if you'd like to check out any of the components we used, as well as all the various
different things you can find at your very conveniently
placed micro centers that are hopefully very
close to your house, the links will all be in
the description below. thank you very much for watching, and i will see you again for the next one. and i'll see you again next
year for our 2023 pc tutorial, where we're going to be
building inside of a tank.