the earth is pretty cool and all, but many of 
its most magnificent features make it tough   for us to get around. when the topography is too 
wet, steep, treacherous, or prone to disaster,   sometimes the only way forward is up: our 
roadways and walkways and railways break   free from the surface using bridges. a lot of 
the infrastructure we rely on day to day isn't   necessarily picturesque. it's not that we can't 
build exquisite electrical transmission lines   or stunning sanitary sewers. it's just that we 
rarely want to bear the cost. but bridges are   different. to an enthusiast of constructed works, 
many are downright breathtaking. there are so many   ways to cross a gap, all kindred in function 
but contrary in form. and the typical way that   engineers classify and name them is in how each 
design manages the incredible forces involved.   like everything in engineering, terminology 
and categories vary. as alfred korzybski   said, "the map is not the territory." but, 
trying to list them all is at least a chance   to learn some new words and see some cool 
bridges. and honestly, i can hardly think   of anything more worthwhile than that. i'm 
grady, and this is practical engineering. one of the simplest structural crossings is the 
beam bridge: just a horizontal member across two  supports. that member can take a variety of forms, 
including a rolled steel beam (sometimes called   a stringer) or a larger steel member fabricated 
from plates (often called a plate girder). most   modern bridges built as overpasses for grade 
separation between traffic are beam bridges   that use concrete girders. and instead of a group 
of individual beams, many bridges use box girders,   which are essentially closed structural tubes 
that use material more efficiently (but can be   more complicated to construct). beam bridges 
usually can't span great distances because   the girders required would be too large. at a 
certain distance, the beams become so heavy,   they can hardly support their own weight, 
let alone the roadway and traffic on top. one way around the challenge of the structural 
members' self-weight is to use a truss instead   of a girder. a truss is an assembly of smaller 
elements that creates a rigid and lightweight   structure. unlike a beam, the members of a truss 
don't typically experience bending forces. the   connections usually aren't actual hinges that 
permit free rotation, but they are close enough.   so, all the load is axial (along their length) 
in compression or tension. that simplifies the   design process because it's easier to predict 
the forces within each structural member. the   weight reduction allows trusses to span greater 
distances than solid beams, and there are a wide   variety of arrangements, many with their own 
specific names. in general, a through truss puts   the deck on the bottom level, and a deck truss 
puts it on top, hiding the structural members   below the road. a particularly photogenic 
type of truss is a lenticular truss bridge,   named because they resemble lenses, which 
themselves are named because they resemble   lentils! a bailey bridge is a kind of temporary 
truss bridge that is designed to be portable   and easy to assemble. they were designed during 
world war ii, but bailey bridges are still used   today as temporary crossings when a bridge fails 
or gets closed for construction. most covered   bridges are timber truss bridges. since wood is 
more susceptible to damage from exposure to the   elements, the roof and siding are placed to keep 
the structural elements truss-worthy.  a trestle  bridge is superficially similar to a truss: a 
framework of smaller members. trestle bridges   don't have long spans, but rather a continuous 
series of short spans with frequent supports which   are individually called trestles, but sometimes 
the whole bridge is just called a trestle,   so like so many other instances of structural 
terminology, it can be a little confusing. this next bridge type uses a structural feature 
that's been a favorite of builders for millennia:   the arch. instead of beams loaded perpendicularly 
or trusses that experience both compressive and   tensile forces, arch bridges use a curved element 
to transfer the bridge's weight to supports using   compression forces alone. many of the oldest 
bridges used arches because it was the only   way to span a gap with materials available 
at the time (stone and mortar). even now,   with the convenience of modern steel and 
concrete, arches are a popular choice for   bridges. they make efficient use of materials 
but can be challenging to construct because   the arch can't provide its support until it is 
complete. temporary supports are often required   during construction until the arch is connected 
at its apex from both sides. in stone arches,   the topmost stone is key to keeping the whole 
thing standing, and, of course, it's called   the keystone. when the arch is below the roadway, 
we call it a deck arch bridge. vertical supports   transfer the load of the deck onto the arch. the 
area between the deck and arch has a great name:   the spandrel. open-spandrel bridges use columns 
to transfer loads, and closed-spandrel bridges   use continuous walls. if part of the arch extends 
above the roadway with the deck suspended below,   it's called a through arch bridge. a moon bridge 
is kind of an exaggerated arch bridge, usually   reserved for pedestrians over narrow canals where 
there's not enough room for long approaches.   they're steep, so sometimes you have to use steps 
or ladders to get up to the top and back down. one result of compressing an arch is that it 
creates horizontal forces called thrusts. arch   bridges usually need strong abutments at either 
side to push against that can withstand the extra   horizontal loads. alternatively, a tied arch 
bridge uses a chord to connect both sides of   the arch like a bowstring, so it can resist 
the thrust forces. that means a tied arch is   structurally more of a truss than an arch, 
and that provides a lot of opportunities for   creativity. for just one example, a network 
arch bridge uses the tied arch design,   plus criss-crossed suspension cables, to support 
the deck. to tell an arch from a tied arch by eye,   it's usually enough to look at the supports. if 
the end of each arch sits atop a spindly pier   or some other structure that seems 
insubstantial against horizontal forces,   you can probably bet that they are tied together 
and it's not a true arch bridge. similarly,   a rigid-frame bridge integrates the superstructure 
and substructure (in other words, the deck,   supports, and everything else) into a single 
unit. they don't have to be arched, but many are. another way to increase the span of a beam bridge 
is to move the supports so that sections of the   deck balance on their center instead of being 
supported at each end. a cantilever bridge   uses beams or trusses that project horizontally, 
balancing most of the structure's weight above   the supports rather than in the center of the 
span. this is such an effective technique that   the forth bridge crossing the firth of forth in 
scotland took the title of longest span in the   world away from the brooklyn bridge in'90 
and held the record for decades. this famous   photograph demonstrates the principle of that 
bridge perfectly: the two central piers bear   the compression loads from the bridge. and, the 
outer-most supports are anchors to provide the   balancing force for each arm. this way, 
you can suspend a load in the middle. the longest bridges take advantage of steel's 
ability to withstand incredible tension forces   using cable supports. cable-stayed bridges 
support the deck from above through cables   attached to tall towers or spars. the cables 
(also called stays) form a fan pattern,   giving this type of bridge its unique 
appearance. depending on the span,   cable-stayed bridges can have one central 
tower or more. their simplicity allows for   a wide variety of configurations, giving rise 
to some dramatic (and often asymmetric) shapes. for shorter spans, you can combine the benefits 
of a cable-stayed structure with girders to get   an extradosed bridge. imagine a concrete girder 
bridge that uses internal tendons to keep the   concrete in compression, then just pull those 
tendons out of the girder and attach them to   a short tower. rather than holding the deck up 
vertically like a cable-stayed bridge, they're   acting more horizontally to hold the girders in 
compression, giving them the stiffness needed   to support the deck. it's a relatively new idea 
compared to most of the other designs i've listed,   but there are quite a few cool examples 
of extradosed bridges across the globe. where a cable-stayed bridge attaches the 
deck directly to each tower, a suspension   bridge uses cables or chains to dangle the 
deck below. in a simple suspension bridge,   the cables follow the curve of the deck. 
this is your classic rope bridge. they're   not very stiff or strong, so simple suspension 
bridges are usually only for pedestrians. a   stressed ribbon bridge takes the concept 
a step further by integrating the cables   into the deck. the cables pull the deck 
into compression, providing stiffness and   stability so it doesn't sway and bounce. 
this design is also primarily used for   smaller pedestrian bridges because it can't span 
long distances and the deck sags in the middle. then you have the suspended deck bridge, the 
design we most associate with the category   with the longest spans in the world. massive main 
cables or chains dangle the road deck below with   vertical hangers. suspension bridges are iconic 
structures because of their enormous spans and   slender, graceful appearance. towers on either 
side prop up the main cables like broomsticks in   a blanket fort. most of the bridge's weight 
is transferred into the foundation through   these towers. the rest is transferred into the 
bridge's abutments through immense anchorages   keeping the cables from pulling out of the ground. 
alternatively, self-anchored suspension bridges   connect the main cables to the deck on either 
side, compressing it to resist the tension forces.   because they are so slender and lightweight, 
most suspension bridges require stiffening with   girders or trusses along the deck to reduce 
movement from wind and traffic loads. these   bridges are expensive to build and maintain, so 
they're really only used when no other structure   will suffice. but you can hardly look at a 
suspended deck bridge without being impressed. bridges have to support the vehicles and people 
that cross over the deck, but they often have to   accommodate boats and ships passing underneath as 
well. if it's not feasible to build the bridge and   its approaches high enough, another option is 
just to have it get out of the way when a ship   needs to pass. moveable bridges come in all shapes 
and sizes. a lot of people call them drawbridges   after their medieval brethren over castle moats. 
a bascule bridge is hinged so the deck can rotate upward.   a swing bridge rotates horizontally 
so a ship can pass on either side.   a vertical lift bridge raises the entire deck upward, keeping 
it horizontal like a table. a transporter bridge   just has a small length of deck that is shuttled 
back and forth across a river. that's just a few,   and in fact, every moveable bridge is unique 
and customized for a specific location,   so there are some truly interesting 
structures if you keep an eye out. on the other hand, sometimes there's no need for 
ship passage or a lot of space below, and in that   case, you can just float the bridge right on the 
water. floating bridges use buoyant supports,   eliminating the need for a foundation. 
these are used in military applications,   but there are permanent examples too. many use 
hollow concrete structures as pontoons, with   pumps inside to make sure they don't fill up with 
water and sink. and actually, a lot of bridges   take advantage of buoyancy in their design, 
even if it's not the main source of support.   a design like this presents a lot of interesting 
engineering challenges, so there aren't too many   of them. similarly, the pedestrian bridge at 
fort de roovere in the netherlands (probably   pronounced that wrong) has its deck below the 
water, giving it the nickname of the moses bridge. if space or funding is really tight, 
one option to span a small stream is   a low-water crossing. unlike bridges 
built above the typical flood level,   low-water crossings are designed to be submerged 
when water levels rise. they are most common   in areas prone to flash floods, where runoff 
in streams rises and falls quickly. ideally,   a crossing would be inaccessible only a few 
times per year during heavy rainstorms. however,   low-water crossings have some disadvantages. for 
one, they can block the passage of fish just like   a dam. and then there's safety. a significant 
proportion of flood-related fatalities occur when   someone tries to drive a car or truck through 
water overtopping a roadway. water is heavy.   it takes only a small but swift flow to push a 
vehicle down into a river or creek, which means at   least some of the resources saved by avoiding the 
cost of a higher bridge are often spent to erect   barricades during storms, install automatic 
flood warning systems, and run advertisement   campaigns encouraging motorists never to 
drive through water overtopping a roadway. you may have heard the term viaduct before. 
it's not so much a specific type of bridge,   but really about the length. bridges that span a 
wide valley need multiple intermediate supports.   so, a viaduct is really just a long bridge 
with multiple spans that are mostly above   land. there's really not a lot of agreement on 
what is one and what isn't. some are singular   and impressive structures. but many modern cities 
have viaducts that are, although equally amazing   from an engineering standpoint, a little less 
beautiful. so, you're more likely to hear them   called elevated expressways. and that gets to the 
heart of a topic like this: without listing every   bridge, there's no true way to list every type 
of bridge. there's too much nuance, creativity,   and mixing and matching designs. the phyllis j. 
tilly bridge in fort worth, texas combines an arch   and stressed ribbons. the third millennium bridge 
in spain uses a concrete tied arch with suspension   cables holding up the deck which is stiffened 
with box girders. the yavuz sultan selim bridge   in turkey combines a cable-stayed and suspension 
design. in some parts of india and indonesia,   living tree roots are used as simple suspension 
bridges over rivers. there are bridges for   pipelines, bridges for water, bridges for animals, 
and i could go on. but that's part of the joy of   paying attention to bridges. once you understand 
the basics, you can start to puzzle out the more   interesting details. eventually, you'll see 
the akashi kaikyo bridge on a calendar in   your accountant's office, and let him know 
it's a twin-hinged, three-span continuous,   stiffened truss girder suspension bridge with 
a double-tower system.  or maybe that's just me. we care a lot about bridges. my previous video 
covered the engineering that goes into vessel   collision design for bridges, focusing on the 
recent collapse of the francis scott key bridge   in baltimore that was a huge story in the news 
covered by nearly every major outlet across the   globe. over 400 sources reported the even from 
every side of the political spectrum. since it   was so widely reported, there's a pretty even mix 
between left-leaning, center, and right-leaning   outlets, but if you look at the headlines, you'll 
see all kinds of ways the story was painted with   political and ideological biases from both sides 
of the aisle. by focusing on different details of   the story - the victims' nationalities, the dei 
policies of the ship operator, the response by   prominent politicians - the framing can subtly, or 
not-so-subtly, change how you interpret the facts. seeing all this in one place is possible thanks 
to my sponsor, ground news. they aggregate major   news stories and add context to make reading the 
news easier and more effective. every story comes   with a quick visual breakdowns and tags for 
political bias, factuality, and ownership of   the sources backed by ratings from independent 
news monitoring organizations. for this story,   you can see that nearly half of the reporting 
outlets are media conglomerates and just over   half of those outlets have been rated "high 
factuality." they also have a feature called   the blind spot that shows you stories mainly 
covered by one side of the political spectrum:   stuff you might totally miss if you only 
follow a few main sources for your news. i don't necessarily agree with how every 
story on the key bridge is painted,   but it's important to me to get a broad 
perspective on issues like this. it's   not just because i was trying to find 
the right way to tell the story myself,   but because stories like this are how we shape 
our view of the world around us. in that way,   journalism has a lot of power over us, and 
ground news hands some of that power back to   you. if you'd like a more transparent media 
landscape, they're offering a huge discount   right now at the link in the description: 40 
percent off the vantage subscription, which   includes unlimited access to all their features. 
that's ground dot news slash practicalengineering   or just click the link in the description. thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think!