- listen, you have to know something. everybody here, any
human being in this area, all over the world not against
peace, everybody like life, even hamas in gaza, they like life. they like peace, but peace not like what you want, (indistinct). if i want to buy something from you, if i create for your price and
i am happy for your things, i will buy it. so our situation here,
what's going with the israeli we are not against of
israel as people jewish, we are against of occupation. if you remember what's happened
with russia and ukrainia, look, one year russia, they
have a problem and they afraid from nato come close to they. they going inside ukrainia. all the world, and all
the arming of the world against of russia. how come i am refugee in my land? why i'm lost my house? did i make something for israel? did my hitler was my cousin? did i make anything for
the jewish in the world, me and my family and the palestinian? - [lex] do you have hope for peace? - my age is 50 years. i have seven kids. no hope. if i told i have hope, i'm joke. and if you want to say the truth, there is no justice in the world. if you are strong,
everybody afraid from you. if you are not everybody kill you. they make you like this by your foot. that's what's happened. there is no peace, my friend. if you want to see the peace,
come to our camp where i live. you will cry. you will cry. you see our peace. - [lex] what are the
conditions like in the camp? - my friend, they're waiting for water. water. you know, what's been water? in europe, the dog, he
live in good condition. dog, animals. how come a human being no
have water? water to drink? - [lex] i asked you about
anger. what about love? you got love in your heart? - well, i love everybody. even the jewish. they kill us. they destroyed our houses. i'm not looked to fight.
i'm not looked to kill. i am against of violence. we love your kids to
live in good condition, the israeli side and the palestinian. we are against of violent. we
don't want to see more blood. we want to destroy this wall. you come to me, i come to you. that's it. that's my hope. - [lex] thank you, my brother. - my english not so nice. - [lex] no, it's pretty good. (person in white speaks
in foreign language) - thank you. (person in white speaks in russian) - no, espanol. colombian. - hola, colombia. arriba, colombia. me gusta colombia. como estas? todo bien? - hello, friends. i recently traveled to the west bank and spoke with many
palestinian people there from all walks of life. there was anger and there was hope in their voice, in their
eyes, in their stories, in ways that i probably
can't express with words. but i wanted to begin
to experience directly. most conversations were offline,
but a few were on camera. and i include those latter
ones here in this video. i'm not a journalist nor
a documentary filmmaker, just a fellow human being trying to understand the struggles and the beauty of other people. and i just sometimes might
bring a camera along. so i ask for your
forgiveness if i fall short of what i could have done
with this opportunity. i work hard to improve and i will do many more videos like these. i love you all. so i think a lot of
people would be surprised to see a palestinian who's a christian. - yes. - [lex] is there a tension in that? can you explain what it's like to be you? - yes, actually, because
i've been to america. once when i was there and i said that i'm palestinian christians, and they have, "how come you
are palestinian christians?" they don't know that in palestine
they are christian people. palestinian christians are
exist since jesus was born. the house that i live in
it, it's 200 years old, and it was my grand
grandfather who lived in this, and my grandfather and my
father and me in the same house, in this area, in palestine especially, you can see christians
and muslims together living side by side and as the neighbors, as we go to the universities together, we worked together, we
do everything together. - [lex] what aspects of
life has made difficult here because of the tension
between israel and palestine? - yes. actually, since jesus was
born, it was occupied by many. till now, occupation after
occupations, we passed palestine through the turkish, the
british, egyptian, jordanian, and that was the last is the israeli. - [lex] so there's quite a bit of tension between the various religions here. - yes. - [lex] what what gives
you hope for the future? - that's right. yes. because you know, christianity,
muslims and judaism, which is means that all praise the lord. this makes me feel very happy, because i'm not a judge
to judge other religious. i'm just praying and
god will judge everyone as what he believes. but the most important thing between the three major religions, it's just to have, most
important, to have love. - [lex] first of all, how
long have you lived here? - my father was a second
generation refugee. i'm a third generation, and my grandfather first to live in 1948. - [lex] what does it mean to be a refugee? - refugee? that's a longest story. you know, palestinians,
they became refugees in 1948 when they lost their homeland,
they became refugees. a lot of them live in
jordans, syria, lebanon, and everywhere in palestine. you know, palestinians get
divided to west bank, gaza, east jerusalem, jordan valley. - [lex] do you have hope
for peace in the region? - of course, i do have hope
because nothing lasts forever. you know what that means?
nothing lasts forever. we are not alone. we have a lot of solidarity
from the jewish community, from the christian community,
from the whole world. but something that's something to do with the governments and politicians. they are, you know,
trying to control over. one state equal rights ecosystem, because jewish, christians and muslims, they have always lived together
during the british mandate, during the oman's time for decades. the only hope for people to
live peacefully together, it's related to one word,
which is occupation. if occupation ends, there's
no reason for palestinians to fights, no reasons for
palestinians to throw rockets. but people, i think they have
a legitimate right to resist. palestinians people in
general, they're nice people, not what the media says about us. you know, it's crazy when you resist, they call you a terrorist. it's a crazy world.
but that we live in it. we are in the 21st century
and we still occupied. so one day, that's why again,
i like, i started saying- - [lex] nothing lasts forever. - exactly. eventually
this occupation will end. and i do believe that
history is remaining solved. but seems to me people, they didn't learn from
the history, you know? right? people who get the power, they wanna just keep going on, you know? but at least we are not
alone in this damn world. - [lex] how long have you lived here? - i lived in this city, i born
in this city, since i born and until now. i grew up in this town. - [lex] there are a lot of people that have anger towards
israel, hate towards israel. - i will give you example. like if someone come to fight your family and to enter your home, you'll
stand closing your hand. if someone killed your
brother, killed your father, you will be easy? you will be as super crazy. this is what's happened for palestinian. lot of palestinian was
killed for nor reason. - [lex] what gives you
hope about the future here? - i'll tell you something. the situation is getting
worse and worse and worse. today, we close all over around about nine because there's something happening. there's a fight between
palestine and israel, and if you go all over around the city, all the entrance of the city, it's closed. second thing, i want tell you something. i don't like politics so
much, because, you know, in the end we are all human. doesn't matter if you are palestinian or israeli or russian or american, doesn't matter what your
religious, christian, muslim, you, and then we are all human. what we want, we want just peace. we want to live in peace. we
don't want any more fight. we want to have our freedom to travel, to go wherever we want. and that's it. - [lex] palestinian scarf. - scarf. (indistinct) - [lex] it looks good. tell us about the coffee. - i make very good
coffee and very good tea. i make the tea with mint, cinnamon, sage, pine, ginger, coriander, rosemary, lemon, two seeds of cardamom, and rose. - [person] this is for me. this is for his joke. - [beverage maker] this is very
good for working the night. you know what it is mean? - yeah. yes, i know what it is mean. (person speaks in foreign language) (people laughing)