b: hello everyone, i'm brady, who makes the numberphile videos b: and i've come to the other side of the camera. b: i'm here at the royal society, where we make objectivity videos. b: usually with keith the head-librarian here. b: keith is gonna show matt and i around. a few things we wonna have a look at. b: and today we wonna talk about prime numbers. m: i'm very excited. b: we don't mind a prime number. m: i can go a prime number every now and then. b: yeah, we don't mind that. they're quite a theme on numberphile b: and that always seems quite modern. b: we're always talking about computers and all that sort of things. m: yeah, modern innovations and prime numbers. b: yeah, all these super computers crunching things and gimps projects and that. b: but you always say b: that people've been fascinated with prime numbers for ever. m: that's true. and we always talk about m: really modern prime numbers, that we're doing m: or we talk about the ancient greeks. m: right? and so it seems to be like no one did anything for thousands of years. m: and then suddenly people invented computers and we're off and racing. m: and so i believe keith is gonna fill in a few of the gaps. k: we have plenty of material in between, yes. k: so let's have a look at some of that. b: so here, in the royal society archives b: this is from'47 m: are these ...papers people have like... sent to the royal society or are they...? k: that's right. so they sent them in to the royal society k: and on the whole they're not published, so that... m: oh, really? k: they didn't make it into... m: this is the junk mail, the spam of the royal society. k: that's right. generally this is the unpublished stuff. m: so they kept them all? k: they did. which is rather great. 'cause we can see exactly what people were writing about. k: even stuff that was a bit odd.
m: even the rubbish. b: look at this, matt, look at this! m: is this specifically maths-themed, this book? or this is the order they arrive? k: no, this is all topics. so it could be anything. m: all of this?! oh no, you're going too fast! b: i know, this is just how amazing stuff there is here. i know, this is exciting for you. b: but let's get to this paper here. b: this has been written in ...1847... the right honourable sir frederick pollock, chief baron of the exchequer. m: oh! so he's in charge of the country's finances. b: and the title is 'on certain properties of prime numbers' k: usually these papers start with a bit of a history behind the topic. m: ah, it says 'previously on prime numbers...' k: yeah, so previously on prime numbers... k: here are some of the key papers, he's citing k: and i can see in the following legrange... k: so he's quoting things that have been published. b: he's waffling. m: he's waffling. b: and then we get into the interesting... m: so this is like an early numberphile video. b: this is... i like to think... yeah... b: it probably could do with editing down. b: so it is a lot like a numberphile. m: it's a lot like a numberphile video in every regard. b: yeah. b: there we go, there we go. so ... m: oh ok, so he's found certain numbers... m: ...to 720, if you add the cube numbers... m: ...to it... m: ...they're all multiples of 7... m: ...and he's found another number... 2240... m: if you add the cube numbers to that, it's always a multiple of 9, ok! b: add or subtract. m: oh, that's true. they're always within a cube number of a multiple of 9. m: i mean this is... this is early recreational mathematics m: so he's gone, you know... the country can deal with its own finances for a moment. m: i wanna find base numbers. m: which are always within a cube's reach of a multiple... that is brilliant. k: the nation is safe in his hands. m: yeah, i like this guy! i like the cut of his jib. b: we've got another paper here b: w. shanks, reciprocals of prime numbers... m: ok so... remarks connected with the number of figures in the periods of reciprocals of the prime numbers. b:'73... m:'73! m: ok, so he's got the inverse of these numbers... m: ....and he's got 10 to a massive power at the top m: ...and then he's equated that to something m: ...and he's talking about...periods in the reciprocals.... m: ...this reminds me a lot of e-mails i get. b: well, probably like a lot of those e-mails you get. b: it says here at the end 'this was 'read ... m: ... but not published'. this is an early crank e-mail. b: i didn't get printed. it didn't make it to press. b: keith, is it common for people to put their heart and soul into something, send it to the royal society and...? k: yeah, i mean... b: ...it ends up in a numberphile video? k: we still have cranks files and they're absolutely wonderful. k: it's when we survey the archives from years ago for things that should be kept and studied. k: cranks files were on the top of the fellow's list, because they're so brilliant. m: they're such an insight, yeah... k: they tend to reflect, what's going on in popular sience at a particular time. m: it's so good, 'cause i get emails from people who claim they've discovered a new pattern in the prime numbers m: and it's great to know that has been going on for centuries. k: yap, oh yes. b: here we go. so another.... m: wow... what era..oh, i see numbers already... b: this is the one i- m: what era are we in now?
b: this is what i wanted to show you. m: oh my goodness! b: so this is called... 'rods to find prime numbers' m: 'rods to find prime numbers'. so this... b: i know we've got no paper. b: we've got no explaination m: it's just that one sheet? m: look, they run the primes across the top of these ones... b: right m: all the primes below 100, it seems m: ...and they've ignored the annoying low primes m: ...which never behave... m: i don't spot any other patterns in the numbers underneath them b: well, how about we take a picture of that and we put it on our website? m: let's put it up! b: it just goes to show, prime numbers -- not just ancient times and not just modern computers. b: basically it's always prime number time. b: now... b: ...if you wonna see more things like this; papers, objects, old fashioned things. b: also more of matt here in the royal society, we've done another video. b: check out objectivity. we've got loads and loads of videos b: going through all of these stacks of archives b: looking at all of these amazing things here at the royal society. b: if you found this mildly intersting, you're gonna love objectivity!