- this nvidia gpu has no display outputs, can't play any games, does not exist on nvidia's website, costs upwards of 5,000 u.s. dollars, and it doesn't even have a cooling fan. and yet it's sold out nearly everywhere. what the heck is going on with this thing? it's like a big block of aluminum. thanks to ifixit for
sponsoring this video. whether you wanna upgrade your own toolbox or give the gift of repair
this holiday season, you can find huge savings,
new toolkit bundles, and get free shipping on orders
over $50 at ifixit.com/ltt. (upbeat music) now the canide and brain dimon. you might've already figured out what this card is designed
for, crypto mining. and yes, yes, i know. but hear me out, this video isn't about promoting or selling you on crypto mining. we're really just incredibly curious about these nvidia cmp mining gpu's. and because of the cost of these cards, very few of them have made their way into the hands of tech
media, at least until now. full disclosure then, this was provided to us by
vipera who sells these cards, but we made no commitment to them or to nvidia to say anything
in particular about it. not that nvidia is likely to talk to us. that is the first weird thing about this. while cmp launched back in february with cards like the cmp 98hx, which used a cut down version
of the chip you'd find in a high-end 30 series gaming card. this particular model, the cmp 170hx isn't mentioned
anywhere on nvidia's website, social media, or even
their investor calls. as far as we can tell, it's
a complete ghost product. making matters even more interesting, there have been leaks about it on twitter since early this year, but no hardware made it out into the wild until the last couple of months. so what is it exactly? well, in line with their
previous mining cards, there are no display outputs. this allows nvidia to cut costs, including the royalty that
they would normally pay to the hdmi forum. and it prevents people from
using the card as a gaming card, potentially cannibalizing
their g-force business. but there are a few other differences. for one, according to
the third-party specs that are provided by vipera, this card does not use silicon that could otherwise have been
turned into a gaming card. in fact, it seems to use harvested dies that didn't meet nvidia's standard for their a100 data center gpus. that could make things interesting later when we try to game on it anyway. the second weird thing is
that this is an nvidia branded and nvidia distributed card. most of the previous mining
gpu's, be they cmp or otherwise were manufactured and sold
by nvidia's board partners, msi, gigabyte, et cetera. but these cards are made
at least through a contract with someone like pegatron or
foxconn by nvidia themselves. third, it draws its maximum of 250 watts, not through an 8-pin
pci express connector, but rather through an
8-pin cpu power connector. now thankfully, vipera
provided us with an adapter. so this is dual 8-pin pcie to
a single 8-pin cpu connector. and that seems to be included by nvidia based on these ebay
listings for the same card that also appear to come
with this same adapter. and then finally, let's talk
about this cooler, shall we? most consumer graphics cards and a lot of the previous mining cards use inexpensive horizontally oriented fans designed for use in an
atx style computer case or an open air mining chassis. this works great for the home
gamer or casual crypto miner, but that style requires extra space for the cooler to operate properly. so it's not really ideal for
large scale crypto mining. so borrowing from the
data center playbook, the cmp 170hx removes the
fans from the card altogether and orients the fins
for lengthwise airflow. you throw a couple of
blowing neutrons on the end and you no longer need to space them out. you can just pack them right in which can vastly increase density. that's awesome for crypto people, but for me or rather for jake, it meant spending some time figuring out how to cool the stupid thing. and since we don't have a compatible server chassis lying around that we aren't already
using in our server room. we opted to design a
little 3d printed shroud that can take a 120 millimeter fan and then direct all of the
airflow down this slot, which we're gonna use
these included thumbscrews to bolt onto the back of it and not weren't gonna just
zip tie a fan to the thing. if for whatever reason you end
up buying one of these cards, we're gonna have the link
to this little shroud thing in the video description. you're gonna need one heck
of a fan on it, by the way, this is an industrial ppc from knoxville that runs at 3000 rpm and does some pretty good
static pressure as well. of course, there's not much need for me to put the shroud on now because before we fire it up, we're going to in true ltt fashion. take this puppy apart. - [jake] you strip it already? - a little. - [jake] really? oh, boy. whoa, it's what? it's fake black. - what the heck. now hold on just a gosh darn minute here. they put aluminum heat sink here and here. is that even metal? this one's not connected to anything. this appears to actually be for looks. holy crap. this thing is fricking jank, jake. look at this. it's just like low key, the solder of the pci express connector to the fricking contact
pads on the board here. what? - yeah, that's weird. is it like that on the cards with the... no, i guess not, right? so they could have made
it like a 3090 reference that had the power connector at the end. - oh, i'm sure they could have. this is not a 3090 board
by any stretch though. you can see it's actually got
three sets of nd link fingers. hold on. does this come out of here? - what the (beep). - hey, language. there are minors watching
this video, get it? - yeah. is it gonna come out? - oh, yeah. there it goes. come on little mining boy. that is a fricking expensive, just like cosmetic piece
of fricking aluminum man. maybe i'm missing something, but it looks to me like nvidia started with a fricking hunk
of aluminum this thick and just milled away
90% of it for no reason other than to just have a
beautiful cosmetic bag plate on a gpu that nobody will ever see 'cause it's in a data center. - to be fair, i think
this is the same piece that would have ended up on a100, just on a different edge. that's an $11,000 card. - but still why? - yeah, it's just for looks. - you can see they've reused
at least certain aspects of the consumer board design because they've got the weird fan cut out for the pass through cooling. - i think the a100 is also like
that too, but we don't know 'cause we don't have
one sticking one apart. - should we take the copper cooler off? - oh, hell yeah. - we kind of have to, don't we? it's our responsibility. don't get fingerprints on the copper, it edges with the finger acids. you people drive me crazy. - i just touched all over it. oh, gosh. oh, gentle. - it's normal epoxy. - [jake] the whole thing? - the whole gpu. and the gpu is fricking this big. - there's gotta be a way. - it's not worth it. i'm sorry, jake, we can't. - oh, i say we just send it in strike. give it a little bit of force. - hold on, jake. no, it might come up. - see that there's
components on the board.. - everyone just be patient. - see the plastic thing right
in there and then twist. - no, i don't want to twist against the component on the board. - it's a big component. it'll be fine. look at the shutters that bad boy. - oh, my god, we're not doing it that way. alex, will a heat gun help to get off the thermal compounded thing? - i like his style. - it's five grand. - well, it's his five grand. not yours. can we twist a little bit? wait, does it twist it all? - i can try to twist. i want a glove. i'm not putting more fingerprints on it. - [jake] there's a cloth. use a cloth - [alex] did have him twist it? - i tried, he wouldn't let me. that was easy. jesus christ. holy (beep). wait, it has an ihs on. - yeah, it does. - what the hell. - it needs some alcohol. - alex, do you see this? - [linus] it's fricking enormous. - [jake] it has an ihs. - it looks like the lasering was done using two different processes, probably at two separate times. - that's really weird. does an 100 have an ihs? - i would think so 'cause
as far as we can tell, they've just reused just about everything about the a100 for this card. - [jake] so the xxm
cards don't have an ihs from what i understand. - the ones where you
plunk them down like this. but the pcie ones, maybe
for whatever reason. - no idea because
nobody's ever taken them-- - well, they can put a bigger
cooler on the pcie version. so maybe they need the more efficient thermal transfer for the other ones 'cause that's why they did away with-- - [jake] the other ones
are way higher wattage. - again then, that would
be why people would want-- - the other ones are like 400 watts. - that'd be why they'd want
to go bare die, for sure then. i get such a kick out of this
fricking pcie connector here. this is hand soldered, for sure. so it's a different kind
of memory on this card. you don't see any gdr 6x or
anything like that, right? this is all power delivery
all around the gpu. and then there's nothing on the back. that's because all the memory is gonna be under this heat spreader
right next to the die and there's only eight gigs of it. this is really interesting. the a100 has 40 or 80. also a little bit more. the advantage of hbm2 is that
it gets in closer to the die, it's higher bandwidth, hence the name high bandwidth memory, hbm. but the disadvantage is of course cost. so that's why it hasn't
really made its way into gaming cards except
when amd experimented with it for one generation, i think, maybe two. - so the gpu code name in this nvidia doc, all they say is ga100. so presumably, it's
probably like ga100-4/3 or something like that. but yeah, this is 105f. weird, very weird. - i hope this thing still works. all of the cooling appears to be done by that copper heat sink
that's in the middle because these black fins are
not connected to anything and this back plate is
not connected to anything like thermally. - i see the copper now
that i'm looking at it, but i never noticed it before. - no, me neither. crazy. i'm gonna tighten them anyway, but i just don't think they do anything. - [jake] no, they do go
through the card though. like they go through the pcb. - no, i know they do. they don't serve a purpose other than to enclose the
copper fins so that our... yeah, exactly. that's all they do. well, are we ready to
throw this bad boy on here? script calls for hydration. v2 ltt water bottles now
with quad channel memory, lttstore.com. you're ready to fire that up? - i'm putting more tape. i like tape. - so jake's sealing up our ducks here. well, not duct tape, but it's fine. - make sure you seal your ducks. - here it goes. i see what you mean about the blowback. oh, well there's your problem? - oh, i was just gonna
plug it in while it's on, but whatever. - nope, if it was a $50
gpu, i'd consider it. the crazy part is this is
value compared to the product-- - well, the one that's based of, depending on the price is
around like 12,000 u.s. - it also has five to
10 times as much hbm2e. - i don't how much the 80 gig ones are. i don't know. - probably more. now this is interesting. a card that is not present
on nvidia's website cannot have drivers downloaded
from nvidia's website. in fact, this entire
cmp series is not here. - [jake] nope, it's not
under c-class either. - [linus] so we ended up
on vipera tech's website where we can find out on mining gpus. here it is. nvidia cmp 170hx windows drivers. and we tried. you cannot use the regular g-force or studio drivers with this card. they just don't do anything. - so from what i recall, i think this is the same version that you can download
from like msi's website for the lower end cmp cards. - oh, crazy. it doesn't even show up
as a display adapter. - it's a 3d video controller. - it's kind of trippy to me that it even has a windows driver because who in their right mind would be running this thing in windows. - that's true. - hey, this is crazy. so this mining specific
driver we just downloaded still has g-force experience and stuff. - yeah, and you can use it
with like 30 series cards. it wouldn't be an up-to-date
game ready driver, but you could game on it with a 30 series. - which we have. - yeah, 3090 for comparison. - this thing is so weird. obs crashed while the nvidia
driver was installing. that makes sense. - wait, why don't we
see if end bank on it. - end bank? you're getting ahead. it's an option, but it doesn't
tell me which gpu i'm using. - gpu is zero probably. - no, probably it'd be one. - dude gpu is zero. i bet gpu zero. - there's no way it's gpu zero. lunch. i bet lunch. we're doing gpu zero now and it's going to be
the rtx 3090 for lunch. there it is, rtx 3090. i told you. got 'em. gpu one. - it's going to crush, i bet. scammed. - [linus] it used gpu zero, anyway. - [jake] can you enter like gpu 10? - wait, what's it even doing? why is this one's like
3d engine going crazy. i wonder if it's like a
weird pass through thing where like the mining
card has the hardware, but it's like it's gonna pass-- - also doing encode. i'm more thinking it's like
on a 3090, you can pick, you want the gpu core or the end bank core to do the encoding maybe. - let's try setting it to gpu 2. oh, you've selected gpu 2. set was back to zero and try again. - [jake] so it doesn't work. - well, that's weird because
the data center cards do have any hardware as far as we know. - [jake] it seems like it. - gpu-z then. here we go. gpu-z does not know this
graphics device yet. this is an entirely new one guys. good job. help the community by
submitting a validation for the fourth tab. heck, yeah. well, we'll start with that. my name is sinus lebastian. i've never gotten to
submit a new gpu to gpu-z. - [jake] i think it's already listed. - let's have a look at this thing then. technology, unknown. die size, unknown. release date, unknown. transistors, unknown. oh, now this is fascinating. - [jake] is that 1.1? - it is a pcie 1.1 by 4 interface. now hold on a second. that may not be quite right, because even though it might
be at that link speed now, if we hit it with a load, it might change. - it says it supports up to 16, but it's still pcie 1.1. - that's really interesting. now to be clear for mining, there's not actually much data transfer that takes place over the
pci express connection. you're just sending the gpu work. it's turning through it and
it's sending you back a result. that's it? so there's no reason, i guess, for nvidia to enable the full
pci express gen 4 by 16 link that this gpu would
otherwise be capable of. - in fact, there's a
reason for them to not that makes it harder for
people to potentially repurpose this as a card
that could do other things. - even if they could get
through any driver locks that nvidia has put in place,
which nobody ever would. when nvidia puts a driver
lock in place, it stays there. what are they up to? like 70% efficiency on
the low hash rate card? - 71%. - 71, hilarious. - it doesn't increase when you're mining. - oh, you're mining already. hold on. i want to look at stuff. we've got hbn2 memory with a 4096 bit bus, 1,493 gigabytes per second
of memory bandwidth. - curiously, that bus
width is less than an a100. i think an a100 is 5120
or something like that. and the a100 bandwidth is higher. - that's still a lot of bandwidth compared to a gaming gpu. - [jake] for sure, like a 3090s
under a terabyte a second. - [linus] clock at 1140, boosts to 1410. - [jake] same boost as an a100. - [linus] no nvidia sli. - [jake] higher base clar interestingly. - you've been talking a lot about directx. directx support. - [jake] go to advance, i think, you can like try it. general, power limit, directx. try that. - so if you were hoping
to grab one of these and make your own cloud
gaming service, obviously. well, it doesn't have any hdmi connection. you can't plug a monitor into it directly. people have reused
nvidias like compute cards for purposes like that. you will not be doing it on this one. - [jake] it supports cuda. not volcom. - let's fire up blender. it's gonna start at some point here. - [jake] i think it's frozen. - [linus] it's really locked up. - [jake] you try optics. it does have tensor core. - it's trying to do some things. - [jake] it's doing a
whole lot of nothing. it's trying to do nothing. - [linus] so the clock speed goes up, but the gpu temperatures
actually don't change. it's just still not doing anything. - [jake] is it the base clock? - yeah, it's just a base. it's all its base are belong to us. - [jake] i think blender
is just telling it to switch power states. - gear it up to do work
that it will then never do. this is a giant disappointment so far. only because we got our
hands on a mining gpu and wanted to do something else on it. - [jake] it's a $5,000 mining gpu. - is now the time to find out
if it's at least good at that. - this is gonna mine on both cards just so we can compare them. and we haven't done any tuning. - [linus] we hit boost clock for a second and then dial back a little bit. - [jake] there power 245
watts, temps are okay. so the interesting thing
is it's a mining card, but you can't tweak the memory speed. you can't do really anything. the only thing you can
adjust is the power limit, which we should do. because when i was messing
around with it earlier, by default, it draws 250 watts and mine's like 164 megahash in ethereum. but if you turn it down to like 80%, it does 160 megahash at 200 watts, which is way more efficient. you're barely losing anything. - so there you go. it's all locked down. - [jake] you can choose the
core clock, but let's not. - [linus] i give the
community not that long to figure out how to change. - [jake] it's hard with nvidia cards. - [linus] wow, look at that, 200 watts. - [jake] the temporary tubs
and the 3090 are just ripping. - i guess that's one
advantage to having that ihs is that your hbm is now gonna be cooled by your main gpu cooler. - there's no things on the back. - there's hardly any difference in temp between the hbm2e and the gpu. so the 3090 is 275 kilohash per watt. and sorry, what is the cmp? - 804. - [linus] 800. - [jake] and i've seen
people with a linux os that's a little bit more efficient, can get like around 850. - that's insane. - mind you, a tuned 3090, you could probably get
around 400 kilohash a watt. it's still double. - and that's with us tuning
it in like four seconds. - 372. we can definitely get to 400
kilohash a watt, i'm sure. - how can this be 40% to 50% faster than the top tier g-force gpu and double the efficiency while on the same mpr architecture? - yeah, that's crazy. - let's talk about that. there are a number of reasons, but the main one is
likely memory bandwidth. the ethereum mining algorithm is almost entirely bottlenecks
by memory bandwidth. so if you have a approximately 50% memory bandwidth difference, and that correlates to a 40%
to 50% performance difference, that mostly checks out. as for the power drop, while they're based on the
same and pure architecture, the a100 silicon is manufactured on tsmc's seven nanometer process rather than samsung's
eight nanometer process, which is what's used on
the 30 series gaming cards. that's gonna help you
on efficiency for sure. so there's no doubt that this
is a killer piece of hardware for crypto miners, but there are still a couple
of questions left to answer. with the looming proof of stake migration for ethereum on the horizon. does it make sense to
buy a pricey card that at current profitability
could take about a year to pay itself off and
has zero value whatsoever outside of mining crypto? well, if nvidia's shortfall
in cmp business unit revenues are anything to go by. most people think probably not. reselling old mining
cards is one of the ways that miners will recoup their
costs in the event of a crash or a legislative change. i'll let you guys make the final
call on all of that though. i guess it's also time
to make the final call on nvidia's claim then that cmp products would not affect the
shortages of gaming products because they would not
be redirecting silicon that could have ended up in a gaming gpu. and in this instance, it actually does appear
that there's validity to nvidia's claims. this gpu is clearly compute only with no meaningful gaming utility. though, the same cannot
necessarily be said of the other cmp cards. let us know if you'd like to see us take a look at those in the future. whether you've been
thinking about learning to repair your own devices or just wanting to take your
hobby to the next level, ifixit got you covered, and now is the time to get kitted out 'cause ifixit's black friday
toolkit markdowns have started. for a limited time, you can get 20% off all laptop batteries, get discounts on the
legendary protech, manta, maaco and moray kits and you can get free shipping on orders over $50 with code foryou. ifixit also launched their new bundles where you can get kits matched
with helpful accessories and they're on sale. this is the only time of the year that you can get these sets
at their lowest pricing and everything is still covered by ifixit's lifetime warranty. so go to ifixit.com/ltt and
give the gift of repair today. if you guys enjoyed this video, maybe check out the video
we did a few years back on how asics work for mining. that was a very interesting one.