- this is the ultimate
ps5, xbox series x, switch and pc gaming setup. from this single spot,
not only can we play all of the games at the same time, but we can also stream and record them all with this simple setup that only took us several months to put together. the crown jewel of our
setup really is how we have all of our consoles and pc
connected through an hdmi matrix. so we actually did an
entire video on this, but it works fairly straightforward. so basically, all the cable
management is being done. we previously had this set up
with the ps4 and the xbox one. but now that we have all the new, brand new generation consoles, we have them all running
through this matrix, which can support 4k60, and
then they go either up to the tv or they go into our pc so
we can capture, stream, whatever we wanna do. so for example, right now, if the ps5 wants to wake back up again, we have our ps5 up on the tv. so if i just wanna play
some cyberpunk, ha ha, joke's gonna be dead by
the time this video's live, i can do that. however, if i want, i can just
go and flip that over here so i can throw the xbox up on the tv. and then instead, i wanna
play, oh i don't know, some switch down here, i wanna record it, so i can just simply do this
and it will switch that over. and then if i want to do some
streaming, i can then do this. so now, with just a
couple of button presses, i have my xbox, which i can play, i have my switch here, which i can record and i have my ps5 here,
where i can stream, all with literally a couple
of presses of a button. did i have to rehearse
that a million times to make sure i didn't
send up the wrong thing? yes, yes i did. but it is super nice to be
able to have the ability to play not only all of our
consoles, but also our pc, because that's still looped in here, in any orientation we want, right? so when it comes to
actually using the setup, it's, well, not quite done. i mean, these things are
always a work in progress, but i'm just gonna, i'm
just gonna get down here. i should be fine. so now i can easily
game, stream and record, all from one comfortable battle station. if only i had some, some support, matt. if only you could bring in
some support right now, thanks. so now that we have a box to sit on, i'm very happy to be able to game. no, so razer actually were
very kind in hooking us up with some of their peripherals, not only on the actual gaming side but also their brand
new iskur gaming chair. now what is a razer gaming chair? i don't know, it looked cool. they said, "hey, you
wanna take a look at it?" and i was like, "yeah." well, it does say this
is perfect gaming form and it surely couldn't
be worse than the form i just showed off. i just like how you clicked on a video talking about the ultimate
ps5 and xbox gaming setup, and now you're watching
two dudes build a chair. aren't you happy with your
youtube watching habits? i mean, it looks like a lot,
but honestly, it's not a lot. there's eight things here,
we'll be done in an hour. all right, i'm ready, let's go. oh! (groaning and laughing) i believe in myself. - just tap in whenever you need to, buddy. - nope, i got it. i have determination and
a small amount of luck has gotten me to this point in my life where i can sit on my chair. where's my thing? matt, where's my thing? i wanna game! i wanna be mlg or whatever
the kids call it these days. so now it's time to actually
finish building the setup and show you one of the
most important components of this entire place,
which is our lighting. now, you might see that
we have a couple of panels right here for streaming. however, if you look up,
you'll see that we've got just a little bit more to it than that, and it's all controlled by this here ipad. now this, of course, not
only is a gaming setup, but it also is a functional set for us. now this room has been a
lot of things over the years that we've had the office, but right now, it is probably the best
sorted that it has ever been. so not only do we have a ton of fixtures all around the top of the
room, but importantly, they're all controlled with this, an ipad using an app called luminair, which connects via wifi to a dmx box, which controls literally
everything in the room. so right now, this is the general preset, so most of the lights are on. it's generally meant
so that no matter where i walk in the room, it works. however, if i wanna sit down
on the couch, for example, then i can very quickly change the entire preset of the lighting. it's one of the nice things
about the way we have the setup, is that no matter what time of day it is, we've got all the lights blocked out, we can get the exact same sort of setup. so say, right now, we have the preset where you're looking toward the wood. but if you wanna come over to this side, i can then turn it on
to the head on angle, which kicks on another couple of lights. you can see how literally
this is just a one tap thing. i can switch back and forth
pretty much instantly. now there are a lot of advantages to this. first of all, we don't have
to do a lot of camera setup or changing our color,
because it's all baked to be the exact same no matter
where we are in the room. instead, all of the
differences are completely down to the lighting presets. even if i wanna turn
this way, we flip it over and there's a completely different preset based on which way i'm
looking in the room, because we have, this
is not a massive space. we have a ton of
different individual looks that we can use for each and every thing that we shoot in here, which is very cool. of course, this is helpful
for things like streaming, but it's also helpful for when
we're shooting normal videos. so for the next part of the setup, we actually have to shut everything off because we have one
more thing to integrate. so big shout out to apc for sponsoring this part of the video and hooking us up with this. so this is the pro gaming ups. the idea here is that with
all of the very expensive electronics that we have connected, not only do you wanna make sure
that they're nice and safe, but importantly, we also
wanna give ourselves some extra time. there have been fairly regular
blackouts here recently, and this will give us
at least a few minutes to wrap up the game, stop the
stream, stop the recording, whatever it is that we're doing, before everything just goes out. so if you don't know what a ups is, essentially this is a
battery backup for your gear. so you have your router
in here, your computer, your game console, whatever the case is, and not only will it help
smooth that power out, but importantly, if the power goes down, you will have at least a few minutes to wrap up whatever it
is that you're doing. now, i need to put this in the setup. thankfully this is a gaming
ups, which is something new. we actually have one of
these, a much larger version, in our server rack, but the idea with this is not only is it designed
and it's sized and priced accordingly for gamers, but importantly, you have a full rgb circle, 'cause it's not a gaming
accessory if you don't have rgb. but it actually is legitimately useful, as you'll see in a minute. this is a massive battery and it will do a full 900 watts of power, which should be plenty for pretty much any gaming pc out there,
including stuff like your router, stuff like your playstation, your monitor. now of course, it will
not do that forever, so to maximize the run time, i'm probably only going to
plug in a few things to it. you also do have a normal
surge protector outlet, which doesn't run through the battery, so you can only plug
in the essentials here. so right now, we have everything
connected to our apc unit, which includes our ps5, and right now, we also
have a lot of the lights and the tv on. that ultimately won't be the final setup because we really just need
one of the gaming monitors to actually be fully supported. some of the other ones can
go into the surge protector, but the nice thing is we have
a full back-up display here so not only do we have our rgb ring so we can change the actual colors, we also see exactly how much
load we're pulling through it. now, the fun part of this whole thing is that now that we are all
connected and protected, i can just unplug it and it'll still work. so i probably should've
planned this out ahead of time, but this cable right here, as you can see, is going into the back of the unit. if i unplug it, oh look,
everything's still running. now, it's gonna go red because i didn't actually fully charge it, but if i hit the button, right now we are currently
running on battery. so the entire setup, the display, the ps5, all of these lights are
running not from power, so if all the power in the
actual office was out right now, it wouldn't make a difference. it's all running off
of our battery back up. so if you wanna upgrade your
gaming game, gaming game? if you wanna protect your gaming gear and also make sure that
you have a little bit of extra peace of mind, it's
thankfully letting me know that we're running out
of battery right now, check out the link in
the description below. so right now, we have our gaming pc, which of course is powered
by a 32-core threadripper. we have 64 gigs of ram, a 5700x, as well as we have a secondary
little dipper system, which is a ryzen 9 16-core
system, 32 gigs of ram and another 5700 xt. now that is our pc side, and
on the actual display side, right now i have the
xbox running into the pc so we can capture it, but we
have it routed to this monitor. we also have the ps5 up on the tv, so i'll just open up astro's
playroom for a second. and then on our last monitor,
let's open up, i don't know. let's play, i have overwatch
on this system, right? so ps5 makes total sense, so we're getting that
native 4k60 over here. on the actual, oh god, and now to be fair, this is probably not
the way you should play something like an xbox game. so you see there's a
little bit of latency, which is essentially because
we are looking at the preview. so if i was actually doing this properly, i would have one display
up just for preview and have another display natively routed. so i'd have it on the tv, for example, so i would be able to see exactly what the game play looks like. and at the same time, i
can hop into a pc game and because everything is routed together, we can very easily play
games, stream games and i can look cool as i kill the bots because i can't do anything else. next upgrade, we're
gonna label the remote. oh wait, we're back to where we started, so xbox is back up here. so that is, 'cause it should
go one, two, three, four. there we go, all right. simple. so now, i can play a game of
ori on the tv with no latency, a direct feed, and at
the same time on the pc, i can be gaming or streaming or recording all of that
footage at the exact same time. ken, would you care to
explain how the gaming, and specifically the streaming
aspect of this works? 'cause i'm getting
confused with that remote. - [ken] sure. - [austin] welcome back. all right, so walk us through
the streaming setup side. - yes, so basically we made
this desk with the mindset that anyone that streams in the office, which are actually a lot of us, can come in and stream
to their twitch channels, or if they need to record
gameplay, they can do that. and a lot of the stuff that's
here will probably look very familiar to you if you've seen a lot of streaming setups. the go xlr is probably my favorite thing in this entire setup because it is probably one of the easiest and most tactile ways to
monitor and control your audio. you can configure all of the rgb and all of the faders and stuff. most importantly though,
the king of all of it, is the microphone. this is one of the most
popular streaming microphones. they obviously use it
for podcasts as well. this is the shure sm7b. it does a really good
job of making you sound like you're a radio personality. if you have a deep voice especially, it really accentuates that. in addition to all of that though, we have a stream deck, which is something also that you've probably seen
in a lot of streaming setups, but there's a reason
why this is used a lot. it gives you access to a lot of different shortcuts if you want. you can configure every single button with the screen that
is behind the buttons. also, as austin is looking at, we have our elgato key lights. so we've kind of leaned into the elgato ecosystem a little bit. what's cool is that on the stream deck, there is integration with
all of the elgato stuff. so for example, i can turn it off. these are controlled via wifi. and again, this is all
made with streamers in mind because the last thing
you wanna think about when you're streaming is turning on a million different things, having to reach behind
the light, hit a switch. you don't wanna do that for
every single thing that you own, so for as long as you can just sit down, hit a switch, perfect. now whenever austin is doing this where we're shooting the desk, when we have this just as a backdrop, we like using these key
lights as practicals, meaning they don't need
to be extremely bright. we want them to be tuned to the rest of the lighting in the studio. however, when we have
our camera setup here, what we can do is actually tune it for this particular camera
when we're streaming and just want bright light at us. and now we are in the
streaming setup itself. we have set up our sony
a7s3, which we intend to use for streaming when we're
not actually filming with it on the daily,
and it is being piped into our elgato 4k60. we are recording right now in
obs, in the highest quality that we can, just to
demonstrate that it is possible to record high quality streams with this. and on top of that, we
are using our top level audio setup for streaming. so we have the go xlr, the
cloud lifter and the sm7b to give us that nice, full-sounding audio that's picking up my voice. it sounds very radio-y,
it sounds very podcast-y, the way that we like it. it is really really cool. and most importantly, because
we are recording this in obs, i actually have some of
stream overlays here, as i would normally have in my streams. normally on this stream,
i do my vtuber stuff, which i have mapped to my
stream deck, look at this. all of a sudden, i'm in my vtuber mode. i'm kentama, how's it going? i'm your little pogchamp. now of course, this is not
the de facto streaming setup and in fact, it might be overkill or it might not even have
enough for some people, but this is what suits our needs the most. - so this is our ultimate
ps5, xbox series x, switch and gaming pc setup. we can record, we can stream, we can play. we have a tv, we have a
microphone, we have all kinds of goodies and toys. so thank you very much for watching. make sure to subscribe and
ring-a-ling the ding-a-ling bell for other ridiculous projects like this. if you'll excuse me,
i'm gonna go try to play three games at once one more
time, just one more time. i can do it this time. i believe in myself 'cause my mom told me that i can do anything i put my mind to. actually that's a lie,
doc brown told me that.