this video is sponsored by warby 
parker. more on them later. in february 2017, the world watched as the main 
spillway on one of the largest dams in the world   suffered a catastrophic failure, prompting a 
series of events that led to the evacuation of   nearly 200,000 people downstream and hundreds 
of millions of dollars of damage to critical   water infrastructure. i made a video about the 
failure of the oroville dam spillway in california   after the independent forensic team released 
their conclusions about why the structure failed,   summarizing their 600-page report. there wasn't 
enough time in that first video to cover the   monumental project of rebuilding both the primary 
and emergency spillways after the event was over.   i got flooded with requests to cover the repairs, 
and i love a good construction project as much as   anyone else. so how do you rebuild one 
of the biggest spillways in the world   after a catastrophic failure knowing that the next 
winter flood season is right around the corner?   the answer might surprise you. i'm 
grady, and this is practical engineering.   in today's episode, we're talking about 
rebuilding the oroville dam spillways. oroville dam in northern california is 
the tallest dam in the united states.   it was built in the 1960s, creating 
one of california's keystone reservoirs   to smooth out the tremendous variability in 
rain and snowfall from their climate of hot,   dry summers and flood-prone winters. the dam 
itself is a massive earthen embankment. to   the northwest is the main spillway, also known 
as the flood control outlet or fco spillway.   at the top are radial gates to control 
the flow. they release water into the   enormous concrete chute before it passes through 
gigantic dentates that disperse the flow as it   crashes into the feather river below. it's nearly 
impossible to convey the scale of this structure,   which could fit eight american football fields 
with room to spare or more than 150 tennis courts.   beyond is the emergency spillway, a concrete weir 
set a foot above the maximum operating level to   provide a backup path for water to leave 
the reservoir during extreme flood events. if you want more detail about the failure, 
i encourage you to go back and watch that   video after this. i do want to summarize the 
damages here because you can't really grasp   the magnitude of the reconstruction project 
without an appreciation for how profoundly   ruined this event left the spillways of oroville 
dam. just about all but the upper section of the   main spillway chute was wholly destroyed. the 
flows that broke free from the chute scoured   the hillside around and below the structure, 
washing away concrete and eroding an enormous   chasm as deep as 100 feet or 30 meters in some 
places. at the emergency spillway, overflows   had similarly scoured the hillside, creating 
erosional head cuts that traveled upstream,   threatening the safety and stability of the 
structure and ultimately leading to the downstream   evacuation. in total, more than a million cubic 
meters of soil and rock were stripped away,   much of which was deposited into the feather 
river below the dam. both spillways were rendered   totally incapable of safely discharging 
future flood flows from lake oroville. even before the event was over, the california 
department of water resources, or dwr,   was planning for the next flood season, 
which was right around the corner.   having the tallest dam in the united states 
sitting crippled and unable to pass flood   flows safely with the rainy season only six 
months away just wasn't an option. as soon as   the extent of the situation was revealed, 
dwr began assembling a team and plotting   the course for recovery. rather than try 
to handle all the work internally, dwr   contracted with a wide range of consultants 
from engineering firms across the country   and partnered with federal agencies, namely the 
corps of engineers and bureau of reclamation,   who both have significant knowledge and 
experience with major water resources projects. in march (less than a month after the incident 
started and well before it was close to over),   dwr held an all-day workshop with the 
design and management teams to collaborate   on alternatives for restoring the dam's 
spillways, focusing on the main spillway.   they were facing some significant challenges. 
with the next flood season quickly approaching,   they had limited time for design, regulatory 
reviews, and construction. steps that would   typically take months or years needed to be 
compressed into weeks. on top of that, they were   still in the midst of the spillway failure without 
a complete understanding of what had gone wrong,   making it difficult to propose solutions that 
would avoid a similar catastrophe in the future.   although they had a laundry list of 
ideas, most fell into three categories   nicknamed by the design team as "use the 
hole," "bridge the hole," or "fill the hole." "use the hole" alternatives involved taking 
advantage of the scour hole and channels carved   by the uncontrolled flows from the spillway. if 
they could protect the soil and rock from further   erosion, these new landscape features could serve 
as the new path for water exiting the reservoir,   eliminating the need for a replacement to 
the massive and expensive concrete chute.   the engineering team built a scale model 
of the spillway at utah state university   as a design tool for providing hydraulic 
information. they constructed an alternative   with a modified scour hole to see how it would 
perform when subjected to significant releases   from the spillway. sadly the model showed 
enormous standing waves under peak flows,   so this alternative was discarded as infeasible. "bridge the hole" alternatives involved 
constructing the spillway chute above grade.   in other words, instead of placing the structure 
on the damaged soil and rock foundation,   they could span the eroded valleys 
using aqueduct-style bridges. however,   given the complexity of engineering such a unique 
spillway, the design team also ruled this option   out. the time it would take for structural design 
just wouldn't leave enough time for construction. "fill the hole" alternatives centered around 
replacing the eroded foundation material   and returning the main spillway to its original 
configuration. there were a lot of advantages to   this approach. it had the least amount of risk and 
the fewest unknowns about hydraulic performance,   which had been proven through more than 50 years 
of service. this option also provided a place to   reuse the scoured rock that had washed into 
the feather river. next, it had the lowest   environmental impacts because no new areas of the 
site would be permanently impacted. and finally,   it was straightforward construction - not 
anything too complicated - giving the design   team confidence that contractors could accomplish 
the work within the available time frame. once a solution had been selected, the design team 
started developing the plans and specifications   for construction. over a hundred engineers, 
geologists, and other professionals were involved   in designing repairs to the two spillways, many 
working 12-plus hour days, 6 to 7 days a week,   on-site in portable trailers near the emergency 
spillway. because many of the problems with the   original spillways resulted from the poor 
conditions of underlying soil and rock,   the design phase included an extensive 
geotechnical investigation of the site.   at its peak, there were ten drill rigs 
taking borings of the foundation materials.   the samples were tested in laboratories to support 
the engineering of the spillway replacements. the design team elected to fill the scoured 
holes with roller-compacted concrete,   a unique blend of the same essential ingredients 
of conventional concrete but with a lot less   water. instead of flowing into forms, roller 
compacted concrete, or rcc, is placed using paving   equipment and compacted into place with vibratory 
rollers. the benefit of rcc was that it could   be made on-site using materials mined near the 
dam and those recovered from the feather river.   it also cures quickly, reaching its full strength 
faster and with less heat buildup, allowing crews   to place massive amounts of it on an aggressive 
schedule without worrying about it cracking apart   from thermal effects. rcc is really the hero of 
this entire project. the design engineers worked   hard to develop a mix that was as inexpensive 
as possible, using the rock and aggregates   available on the site, while still being strong 
enough to carry the weight of the new spillway. in the interest of time, california dwr brought 
on a contractor early to start building access   roads and staging areas for the main construction 
project. they also began stabilizing the steep   slopes created by the erosion to make the site 
safer for the construction crews that would   follow. the main construction project was 
bid at the end of march with plans only 30%   complete. this allowed the contractors to get 
started early to mobilize the enormous quantity   of equipment, materials, and workers required for 
this massive undertaking. having a contractor on   the project early also allowed the design team 
to collaborate with the construction team,   making it easier to assess the impact of design 
changes on the project's costs and schedule. because the original spillway failed 
catastrophically, dwr knew that the   entire main spillway would need to be 
rebuilt to modern standards. however,   they didn't have the time to do the whole 
thing before the upcoming flood season.   dwr had developed an operations plan for 
lake oroville to keep the reservoir low and   minimize the chance of spillway flows while the 
facilities were out-of-service for construction,   but they couldn't just empty the lake entirely. 
they still had to balance the purposes of   the reservoir, including flood protection, 
hydropower generation, environmental flows,   and the rights of water users downstream. the 
winter flood season was approaching rapidly,   and there was still a possibility of a flood 
filling the reservoir and requiring releases.   dwr needed a spillway that could function before 
november 2017 (a little more than six months   from when the contractor was hired), even if it 
couldn't function at its total original capacity. in collaboration with the contractor, the 
design team decided to break up the repair   project into two phases. phase 1 would rush to 
get an operational spillway in place before the   2017-2018 winter flood season. the remaining work 
to complete the spillway would be finished ahead   of the following flood season at the end of 2018. 
in addition to the repairs at the main spillway,   engineers also designed remediations to the 
emergency spillway, including a buttress to the   existing concrete weir, an rcc apron to protect 
the vulnerable hillside soils, and a cutoff   wall to keep erosion from progressing upstream. to 
speed up regulatory approval, which can often take   months under normal conditions, the california 
division of safety of dams and the federal energy   regulatory commission both dedicated full-time 
staff to review designs as they were produced,   working in the same trailers as the engineers. 
the project also required an independent board of   consultants to review designs and provide feedback 
to the teams. this group of experts met regularly   throughout design and construction, and their 
memos are available online for anyone to peruse. phase 1 of construction began as the 
damaged spillway continued to pass water   to lower the reservoir throughout the month 
of may. the contractor started blasting and   excavating the slopes around the site to 
stabilize them and provide access to more   crews and equipment. at the same time, an army of 
excavators began to remove the soil and rock that   was scoured from the hillside and deposited into 
the feather river. the spillway gates were finally   closed for the season at the end of may, allowing 
equipment to mobilize to all areas of the site.   they quickly began demolition of the remaining 
concrete spillway. blasting also continued   to stabilize the slopes by reducing their 
steepness in preparation for rcc placement   and break up the existing concrete to 
be hauled away or reused as aggregate. by june, all the old concrete had been removed, 
and crews were working to clean the foundation   materials of loose rock and soil. the contractor 
worked to ensure that the foundation was perfectly   clean of loose soil and dust that could reduce the 
strength of the bond between concrete and rock. in july and august, crews made progress on the 
upper and lower sections of the spillway that   hadn't been significantly undermined. because 
they didn't have to fill in a gigantic scour   hole in this area, crews could use conventional 
concrete to level and smooth the foundation,   ensuring that the new structural spillway 
slab would be a consistent thickness across   its entire width and length. of course, i 
have to point out that the chute was not   simply being replaced in kind. deficiencies in 
the original design were a significant part of   why the spillway failed in the first place. the 
new design of the structural concrete included an   increase in the thickness of the slab, more 
steel reinforcement with an epoxy coating   to protect against corrosion, flexible 
waterstops at the joints in the concrete   to prevent water from flowing through the 
gaps, steel anchors drilled deep into the   bedrock to hold the slabs tightly against 
their foundation, and an extensive drainage   system. these drains are intended to relieve 
water pressure from underneath the structure   and filter any water seeping below the slab so it 
can't wash away soil and undermine the structure. as the new reinforced concrete slabs and training 
walls were going up on the lower section of the   chute, rcc was being placed in lifts into the 
scour hole at the center of the chute. this   central scour hole was the most time-sensitive 
part of the project because there was just so   much volume to replace. instead of filling the 
scour hole and building the new spillway slabs   and walls on top during phase 1, the designers 
elected to use the rcc as a temporary stand-in   for the central portion of the chute during the 
upcoming flood season. the designs called for   rcc to be placed up to the level of the spillway 
chute with formed walls, not quite tall enough   for the total original capacity, but enough 
to manage a major flood if one were to occur. by september, crews had truly hit their stride, 
producing and placing colossal amounts of concrete   each day, slowly reconnecting the upper and 
lower sections of the chute across the chasm   of eroded rock. reinforced concrete slabs and 
walls continued to go up on both the upper and   lower sections of the chute. with only a month 
before the critical deadline of november 1,   the contractor worked around the clock to 
produce and place both conventional and   roller-compacted concrete across the project 
site. by the end of the day on november 1st,   phase 1 of the massive reconstruction 
was completed on schedule and without a   single injury. the spillway was ready to handle 
releases for the winter flood season if needed.   luckily, it wasn't, and the work 
didn't stop at oroville dam. phase 2 began immediately, with the contractor 
starting to work on the parts of the project   that wouldn't compromise the dam's ability 
to release flows during the flood season.   that mainly involved a focus on the emergency 
spillway. crews first rebuilt a part of the   original concrete weir, making it stronger and 
more capable of withstanding hydraulic forces.   they also installed a secant pile cutoff wall in 
the hillside well below the spillway. a secant   pile wall involves drilling overlapping concrete 
piers deep into the bedrock. the purpose of the   cutoff wall was to prevent erosion from traveling 
upstream and threatening the spillway structure.   a concrete cap was added to the secant piles 
to tie them all together at the surface.   finally, roller compacted concrete was placed 
between the secant wall and the spillway   to serve as a splash pad, protecting 
the vulnerable hillside from erosion   if the emergency spillway were 
ever to be used in the future. once the flood season was over in may, dwr 
gave the contractor the go-ahead to start   work back on the main spillway. there were two 
main parts of the project remaining. first,   they needed to completely remove and 
replace the uppermost section of the   chute and training walls. except for 
the dentates at the downstream end,   this was the only section of the 
original chute remaining after phase 1. at the rcc section of the spillway, crews first 
removed the temporary training walls that were   installed to allow the spillway to function at a 
reduced capacity during the prior flood season.   they never even got to see a single drop of 
water, but at least the material was reused   in batches of concrete for the final structure. 
next, the contractor milled the top layer of rcc   to make room for the structural concrete 
slab. they trenched drains across the rcc   to match the rest of the spillway, and finally, 
they built the structural concrete slabs and walls   to complete the structure. all this work 
continued through the summer and fall of 2018.   on november 1st, construction hit a key milestone 
of having all the main spillway concrete placed   ahead of the winter flood season. although 
cleanup and backfill work would continue   for the next several months, the spillway 
was substantially complete and ready to   handle releases if it was needed. it's a good 
thing too because a few months later, it was. crews continued cleaning up the site, working on 
the emergency spillway, and demobilizing equipment   throughout the 2018-2019 flood season. 
in april 2019, heavy rain and snowfall   filled lake oroville into the flood control zone, 
necessitating the opening of the spillway gates.   for the first time since reconstruction, barely 
two years after this whole mess got started,   the new spillway was tested. and it performed 
beautifully. i'm sure it was a tremendous relief   and true joy for all of the engineers, 
project managers, construction workers,   and the public to see that one of the 
most important reservoirs in the state   was back in service. as of this writing, oroville 
is just coming up from historically low levels   resulting from a multi-year drought in california. 
it just goes to show the importance of engineering   major water reservoirs like oroville to smooth out 
the tremendous variability in rain and snowfall. it's easy to celebrate such an incredible 
engineering achievement of designing and   constructing one of the largest spillway repair 
projects in the world without remembering what   necessitated the project in the first place. 
the systemic failure of the dam owner and   its regulators to recognize and address the 
structure's inherent flaws came at a tremendous   cost, both to those whose lives were put at 
risk and evacuated from their homes and to the   taxpayers and ratepayers who will ultimately foot 
the more-than-a-billion dollars spent on these   repairs. dam owners and regulators across the 
world have hopefully learned a hard lesson from   oroville, thanks in large part to those who shared 
their knowledge and experience of the event. i'd   like to give them a shout out here, because this 
video wouldn't have been possible without them. california dwr's commitment to transparency 
means we have tons of footage from the event   and reconstruction, much more than i was able 
to share here. engineers and project managers   involved in the emergency and reconstruction 
shared their experiences in professional   journals. finally, my fellow youtuber juan 
brown provided detailed and award-winning   coverage of the project as a citizen 
journalist on his channel, blancolirio,   including regular overflights of oroville 
dam in his mighty luscombe. go check out his   playlist after this if you want to learn more. 
as i always say, this video is only a summary,   and it doesn't include nearly the level of 
detail that juan put into his reporting. finally i want to thank the sponsor 
of today's video, without whom i could   not see faraway objects clearly, nor could i 
maintain this air of confidence and charisma. warby parker is all things vision care, 
including stores that offer eye exams,   but i've been using them for my glasses for 
many years now. let me show you how it works.   you choose 5 pairs of glasses from their 
website to try at home for free for 5 days.   i love this option because there's 
less pressure to make a decision than   at the optometrist's office, and 
i can get feedback from my wife.   i always pick at least one pair i know i'll 
like ... and one pair that isn't my normal style.   once you've tried them on, pack them up and send 
them back with the pre-paid label. there's no   obligation to buy, but glasses start 
at only $95 with prescription lenses,   and you can use fsa or hsa dollars too. it's 
such a fresh take on purchasing eyeglasses,   and i really enjoy the process. if 
you are a fellow glasses wearer,   try 5 pairs of glasses at home, completely 
free at warbyparker.com/practicalengineering.   supporting our sponsors helps support the channel. 
that's warbyparker.com/practicalengineering.   thanks warby park and thank you for 
watching. let me know what you think.