- smart summon and soon autopark takes on the full beautiful
mess of parking lots and their human-to-human
non-verbal communication. i think it has actually the potential to have a profound impact in changing how our civilization
looks at ai and robotics, because this is the
first time human beings, people that don't own a tesla,
may have never seen a tesla or heard about a tesla, get
to watch hundreds of thousands of cars without a driver. do you see it this way
almost like an education tool for the world about ai? do you feel the burden of
that, the excitement of that, or do you just think it's
a smart parking feature? - i do think you are getting
at something important which is most people have
never really seen a robot, and what is the car that is autonomous? it's a four-wheeled robot. - yeah, it communicates
a certain sort of message with everything from
safety to the possibility of what ai could bring, to
its current limitations, its current challenges, what's possible; do you feel the burden of that almost like a communicator,
educator to the world about ai. - we're just really trying
to make people's lives easier with autonomy. but now
that you mention it, i think it will be an eye
opener to people about robotics. because most people
have never seen a robot and there are hundreds
of thousands of teslas, won't be long before
there's a million of them that have autonomous capability and that drive without a person in it. and you can see the kind of evolution of the car's personality and thinking with each iteration of autopilot. you can see it's uncertain about this, but now it's more certain. now it's moving in a
slightly different way. i tell immediately if a
car is on tesla autopilot because it's got just
little nuances of movement. it just moves in a slightly different way. cars on tesla autopilot,
for example, on the highway are far more precise about
being in the center of the lane than a person. if you drive down the highway and look at where cars are, the human-driven cars,
are within their lane. they're like bumper cars. they're moving all over the place. the car on autopilot, dead center.