i want to talk about one of the few pure-play
foundries in the united states and a 2021 ipo: skywater technologies. bloomington, minnesota-based skywater is a
us-owned pure play semiconductor foundry that focuses on custom development services, volume
manufacturing and advanced packaging. they seek to offer a complete suite of services
to their clients. its minnesota fab is one of seven american
wafer fabs with 1a accreditation in defense microelectronics activity from the department
of defense. and is the only such foundry controlled by
american investors. considering the recent interest that people
have had in semiconductors and having semiconductors made in the united states, i thought it would
be appropriate to do a video profile on this interesting company. the company 
is relatively young. for all intents and purposes, it began in
2017 when oxbow industries, a private equity group in st. louis park, minnesota, acquired
the bloomington fab. oxbow industries has been around since 2004,
with loren a. unterseher serving as the managing partner. unterseher has had a long career in mergers
and acquisitions and sits on the skywater board. oxbow owns several other companies, most of
which i have never heard of, manufacturing things i never think about like control interface
products and decorative inlays. not that there's anything wrong with that
of course. in fact, such things tend to be some of the
best investments out there. oxbow started skywater for two reasons. first, the oxbow investor group felt that
the division was "under-managed". which is a kind way of saying that we think
management sucked. and second, they saw a coming trend of semiconductor
on-shoring. especially in context of the contemporary
america-first political climate. as we will discuss later on, capitalizing
on close government ties is a critical part of their business and growth strategy. skywater's 80,000 square foot minnesota fab
had been previously owned and operated by american semiconductor maker cypress semiconductor
from 1991 to 2017. located a few blocks south of the world-famous
mall of america, it is one of three such fabs in the state. cypress purchased the fab in the 1990s from
control data corp. over the 25 years they owned it, the fab was
upgraded from the 130nm and 90nm process nodes to 65nm. far from the leading edge - tsmc started offering
65nm in 2005 - but that is fine. not everything needs to be 5nm. the fab largely produced very special, low-volume
chips that did not suit the bigger foundry players. mixed-signal circuits are the plant's most
important products. called as such because they have both analog
and digital circuits on them. they are good for iot, cellular and automotive
solutions. another product the fab makes is sram, a type
of low-latency high-speed data access ram not unlike dram but most frequently used as
processor cache. very niche. very nice. in 2017, the fab was sold to skywater for
$30 million. cypress wanted to pay down their debt and
reduce their manufacturing costs by consolidating some production to their austin, texas fab. oxbow's move to acquire and start skywater
would save 400 high tech manufacturing jobs in minnesota. side note. cypress itself would later be acquired by
german semiconductor maker infineon. at skywater's founding, the fab was capable
of 12,000 wafer starts a month. this is assuming 200-mm diameter wafers and
30 mask layers. a wafer can have multiple mask layers projected
onto it. the more layers, the longer it takes to do
a wafer. 12,000 200-mm wafers a month is not a whole
lot. for context, tsmc's gigafabs are capable
of 100,000 300-mm wafer starts each month. but when you are making niche specialty chips,
12,000 is fine. oxbow's first step in bringing the minnesota
fab up to speed had to do with management. the private equity group recruited a roster
of experienced talents to run skywater. these include a cfo, cto, director of operations
and current president and ceo thomas sonderman. getting started would take time. skywater wanted to ensure that they could
count on its former owner during the transition period. so cypress semiconductor signed a 3-year wafer
supply agreement to buy chips from skywater while the startup got its legs under them. if you know amd and globalfoundries, then
you would be familiar with these. if you want to learn more about that relationship,
i encourage you to watch my video about amd. at skywater's founding, 97% of the company's
revenue came from cypress, with the rest coming from a company called parade technologies. a year later in 2018, skywater managed to
add four additional customers, reducing cypress's share from 97% to 60%. the company also began collaborating with
the us government to upscale its manufacturing techniques and eventually compete for government
contracts. a few weeks after skywater's founding, the
us department of defense deemed it a category 1a trusted foundry. then in 2018, the defense advanced research
projects agency, or darpa, awarded a contract to a team consisting of skywater, mit, and
stanford to develop carbon nanotube microelectronics. a year later in 2019, the department of defense
gave skywater a $170 million contract to make chips capable of surviving high levels of
radiation. such resistance in radioactivity - called
'rad-hard' - has useful applications in the medical, aerospace, and military fields. the first allotment of money - $80 million
- allowed skywater to add a third clean room to its minnesota fab. this upgraded clean room would allow skywater
to use copper interconnects and to hire another 30-50 engineers onto its staff. in june 2020, the wafer supply agreement with
cypress/infineon ended. by january 2021, the percentage of skywater's
revenues coming from cypress was 29%, down from the 40% a year earlier. a great improvement, but still a long ways
to go. throughout this period, the minnesota fab
was skywater's single major asset. then in january 2021, the company agreed to
take over the center for neovation facility in osceola county, florida. their announced intentions would be to offer
advanced semiconductor packaging services to their customers. especially to the government. controlling both the front and back end facilities
would allow skywater to offer a highly differentiated service to their customers at a good price
and with a quick turnaround. in their s-1, skywater lists out their business
and growth strategy. first things first, they have to diversify
their customer base. despite having 36 individual customers as
of january 2021, infineon is still responsible for a quarter of their revenues. the next two largest customers represent another
30%. the core wafer fab business is still heavily
concentrated and that is a risk factor. their pitch to potential wafer fab customers
is their ability to do specialized, low-volume work with fast turnaround times. for instance, their core analog and mixed-signal
wafer fabrication capability is still important and make a lot of sense in today's iot and
5g era. but they seem to be especially interested
in radiation-hardened or 'rad-hard' applications. makes sense since it is what that new third
clean room is made for. the term has its own line in the growth strategy
section and is specifically mentioned in the risk factors. and of course, they want to heavily lean on
close ties with the government. government contracts helped pay for that third
clean room, and their dmea category 1a accreditation is a big talking point in their marketing. what skywater can do makes a lot of sense
for the government. the department of defense is a big buyer of
chips on the whole but the types they want are highly specialized and often do not make
financial sense for large foundries. a chip that goes into a nuclear missile for
instance is not really needed elsewhere. considering how important the government is
to the company's prospects, you might be wondering why the foundry doesn't just go
all in on government work. despite what you may think, the us government
is not a sugar daddy. as sonderman says: > "the goal of the government really is
to stand up capabilities that can be used commercially. they want to have commercially viable entities
... for their applications." this is a variant of the export discipline
concept i mentioned in my taiwan and tsmc video. if you want suppliers to be excellent, test
their might in economic mortal combat by making them win business on their own. a government stamp of approval could definitely
help with that. management believes that customers can appreciate
the benefits of working with a foundry that is up to military-grade secrecy standards. on the science and advanced technology side,
the company is doing some interesting stuff. in addition to their work in carbon nanotube
transistors, they are also making qubits for d-wave's quantum computer. it makes sense for them to experiment on these
technologies, because you never know what might turn out to be a hit and such r&d can
have larger benefits in the economy. financially, i would say that there is more
good than bad. in april 2021, skywater held a successful
ipo that had them sell 6.96 million shares at $14 a share, the higher end of the range. as of this writing in may 2021, the company
is worth about $800 million. oxbow owns about 74% of that, so their $30
million initial investment plus whatever else they invested setting up the company is now
worth $600 million. 20x or so return on investment over 4 years
is a home run. that's the good news. now for the bad. the company's operating metrics might leave
some pause. gross margins, an indicator of pricing power,
are hovering at less than 20%, a far cry from tsmc's 50%+. these margins are about the same level as
your average fast food restaurant. as a result, the company turned an operating
loss in 2020. and heavy capital expenditures take a blow. skywater spent $90 million for upgrades in
2020, over 60% of their revenues and just barely more than their operating cash generated. they raised the capital for that by taking
a revolver loan from wells fargo and doing a $39 million failed sale-leaseback transaction
of their property with their principal owner. a famous investor once said: "when a management
with a reputation for brilliance tackles a business with a reputation for poor fundamental
economics, it is the reputation of the business that remains intact". this isn't a stock analysis but skywater
seems to be an example of that. a decently well-run business in a rough corner
of town. i would like to see them succeed. but the consistently low gross margins and
constant need for capital expenditures are worrying. such is the way in the low margin trailing
edge foundry business. they are leveraging every opportunity that
has been given to them, including their close government ties. it seems like much of the company's current
value is in anticipation of big future government contracts. but i wonder if those contracts would be big
enough to move the financial needle, drive growth, and make the company worth what people
will pay for it in the long run.