- hey guys, this is austin, and this is one of the coolest gaming laptops i've ever seen. so this might not look like anything all that special, right? it's just like a fairly
chunky, big gaming laptop, but, if i flip it over, eh, this one's just a
little bit different. and by little, i mean a lot different. this is the rog mothership. if you saw a video we did
last year of the rog g703, you'll know that that was hands down the most ridiculous overkill gaming laptop we've ever taken a look at. well take a lot of what i said about that, and put it into this form factor, and we've got some fun stuff. so this is a bit thinner than the g703. what's interesting about it is that they've really
rearranged all the components. so i flip it around,
what you'll see is that all main stuff like the cpu and the gpu, they're all around back. so as opposed to a normal laptop, where you pretty much have the
keyboard that's blocking it, instead we have full airflow
here as well as on the top, and this has some serious specs. we're talking like the
core i9 and rtx 2080, i mean, this has got a lot of stuff and is able to keep cool with
a slightly unusual design. there's even rgb underneath the kickstand so that everyone can see
just how cool you are. now i get that this is not a
standard laptop form factor, but honestly that's kind of okay, right? i mean, you're talking
about a very high-end gaming laptop which is a
little bit more portable, but it definitely does not stop there. so if you want, you could use the keyboard and touchpad like a standard laptop, or you can actually
detach the entire panel and then it will flip
over to wireless mode. so what's cool about this is that you still have your keyboard, you still have your
touchpad, and of course, if you want to, you could just
put this away and you know, use another set of peripherals or you can even use this wire because it does have a uscb port to charge as well to use it wirelessly,
or wiredly, wiredly? wired, wired. this is a really good
example of why this design actually makes some sense right? i mean of course, you
could do a standard laptop and have all the components on the bottom, but because of this, i mean, it's kinda like the most
overkill two on one ever. this is a big laptop. it has a 17.3 inch panel
that is a full 144 hertz with a three millisecond response time, and on top of that, what's
kinda cool about the keyboard design is that we actually have a ton of room for the speakers. so i start cranking this up and it's loud, it's super loud, so it has four 4 watt speakers that are all blasting directly at you, and it even does have rgb, because of course it does. of course it does. surprising exactly no one, this
thing has ridiculous specs. so it has an overclocked
core i9 processor, 64 gigs of ram, three 1
terabyte ssds in raid, because obviously that's important, and we of course do have
that brand new rtx 2080 gpu. now this is as good as it gets
for laptop gpus right now, but unfortunately, i'm not at liberty to show you gaming on
this particular system, so, you'll just have to take my word that it can definitely,
definitely play fortnite, and like crysis i guess, or whatever the kids play. can we all just pause for one second? this thing is ridiculous. like straight up, i've seen
a lot of two on one designs, and usually it's much more
on the ultra portable side, which is great right? i mean, it's nice to have
something that's super thin, super light, but this is
so like, it's cool right? i mean look at this,
so we have a kickstand. you also have all the ports, i haven't even gone over that yet. so we have not only 2.5 gigabyte ethernet, we also have wi-fi6,
you've got thunderbolt, you've got usba, you've got hdmi, i mean, this thing is
loaded with cool specs, but i really appreciate
that that's all loaded into a chassis which is
legitimately different, right? i mean, of course i wanna
actually get my hands on it and spend some proper time to see how well it thermal throttles,
or anything like that. but, you can look at just
how much space you've got. we were able to do a
little bit of a once-over on some of the components
that are on the outside to see kinda like the cnc
aluminum, and the heat sinks, and stuff, but i just really appreciate that this is a gaming laptop, which is obviously very powerful, but it's actually really cool. you might be familiar
with the rog zephyrus s, which came out a few months ago. while this is a super cool 15 inch design, they now have an updated 17 inch version. so with it closed, it's incredibly thin at
only'.7 millimeters, but with the active aerodynamic system, which is a very asus name, we do get a little bit of extra cooling, thanks to the bottom panel opening up. now this is similar to
the last generation model, however, it has even more power inside, with a full rtx 2080 max-q inside. like the other zephyrus models, it is a fairly understated design, and that's something i
appreciate in a gaming laptop. now sure, you've got all the rgb you want, you've got per-key rgb
lighting on the keyboard, you've got the logo, the underglow, but if you want, you can
turn all the stuff off, and you get yourself, what's actually a fairly subdued laptop. especially considering that it does have that full 17 inch screen. as a laptop, with a core
i7 and an rtx 2080 inside, it does come with a
fairly beefy power brick. what's cool is, it does
also support usbc charging. now mind you, you won't be able to use a brick like this for say, gaming, but if you wanna get a little
bit of juice on the go, if you're not doing anything all that intensive, this does work. what's interesting about the zephyrus is, is that it does come
with an external webcam. as opposed to cramming a very
small camera in the bezel, instead this is something
that is a full 1080p60 fps, which you can not only
mount to the laptop itself, or if you wanted to, you
can use the included stand and put it off to the side. now rg was telling me a little
bit about the idea that, obviously, a lot of people are buying this for something like say,
twitch streaming, or whatever. so the idea is that you
have a better webcam that you can place off to the side and it still comes with the laptop, is a nice tough, although, i don't know, nose cams are cool, right? the 17 inch version of the zephyrus will be going on sale later this month, and the refreshed 15 inch will go on sale just a little bit after that. i don't have a price for you, but as you might imagine, rtx is not gonna be particularly cheap. anyway, hope you guys enjoyed. definitely be sure to
stayed tuned to the channel. for lots more other ces 2019 coverage, and most of 2018, 2019.