one of my first reactions was pure terror that 
because i was so excited i just became paranoid   that i was going to somehow blurt out that 
i refuse the fields medal when obviously i   wanted to accept it. so i think i had the most 
bizarre response to his question that i very very   slowly and deliberately said, yes i accept the 
fields medal which is the most surreal phrase. so certainly when i was in secondary school i 
was aware of the concept of the fields medal   as a sort of maths version of the nobel prize 
or something. i think the fields model was the   only maths prize i was aware of then. i can't 
remember at all when the first time i'd heard   about the fields medal would be but yeah it must 
have been at some point when i was at school.   (brady: not goodwill hunting? that that's when i first heard of 
it. goodwill hunting made the fields medal famous)  - following you around going 'the fields medal, the fields medal'
- it's about my medal isn't it? oh god i can   go home and get it for you, you can have it.
- yeah so it took me an embarrassingly long period of time   to watch goodwill hunting i think. so despite 
the fact i've been keen on maths for such a long   time yeah somehow everyone else seemed to have 
watched goodwill hunting but i hadn't watched it   so i didn't learn about it from there.
- (so it's well documented, we've even spoke about it. you started) (having some successes and making some impressive 
breakthroughs; and people started talking about) (you being a contender for the fields medal. i 
used to see on reddit every time fields medal)   (season came around your name would be amongst the 
possible winners. did people ever talk to you about)  (it? were people- did people ever say to you, 
'james i reckon you could win it this year', like)  (things like that. were you very aware of it?)
- so maybe a couple of colleagues heard loose comments   and so you made indications that they thought 
it was possible. but strangely the biggest thing   was that people didn't talk about it. that normally 
mathematicians like to gossip a little bit about   fields medals and things and so in some cycles 
sort of when we're just having dinner or if   we're having coffee or something together people 
gossip about who might win a fields medal. but it   was notable that for this cycle no one was talking 
to me about the fields medal at all and i seemed   to be cut out of all the normal gossiping that 
was going on. so in terms of my interactions   with colleagues it was actually more than not 
talking to me than them talking to me that   was an indication that they thought maybe i was 
one of the candidates.
- (how did you find out?)   so i was decorating my house, so i was at the top of a 
ladder painting one of the ceilings and i came   down to have a break and i checked my phone and 
then i had an email from the imu president saying   'could we arrange a zoom call sometime soon'. and 
i had a suspicion then as to what it was. i was   desperately trying to convince myself that 
he wanted me to be on some boring committee   and this was nothing to get excited about at all 
because i didn't want to get ahead of myself.   but realistically that's when i had the first sort 
of inclination that maybe i'd won the fields medal   and then we organised this zoom call in my office.
and fortunately he was very kind and just said   basically straight up, oh we've decided to award 
you the fields medal. so it cut all the tension   out pretty quickly. 
- (what was your first feeling? do you remember what first went through your head?)   um obviously i was ecstatic. the imu president asks 
you will you accept the fields medal - because i   guess there was this notable case with perelman
that he declined the fields medal. so in fact   one of my first reactions was pure terror that 
because i was so excited i just became paranoid   that i was going to somehow blurt out that 
i refuse the fields medal when obviously   i wanted to accept it. so i think i had the most 
bizarre response to his question that i very very   slowly and deliberately said 'yes i accept the 
fields medal' which is the most surreal phrase   that i think i said because i was just 
completely terrified that somehow i'd been   awarded the fields medal and i would 
accidentally reject the fields medal.   (okay - well done for not rejecting it! what's 
the chat like then? does he tell you- obviously)  (he tells you some procedural things; are you 
sworn to secrecy? what's the deal at this point?)   um yeah they give you- he said that he'd talk
me through a few of the basic procedural things   and then there's a number of extra details 
that go through. they strongly ask you   to keep it secret- they understand 
that you'll tell a couple of very close   family members and maybe a couple of close 
colleagues but they're very very keen to   keep it as secret as possible because naturally 
that's part of the fun of all of these awards.    (the fields medal- there's obviously other people who win 
the fields medal; do they tell you the other)   (winners at that point? or do you not know who 
your sort of colleagues are at that stage?)   no so i only knew for sure who the other winners 
were when i walked into the backstage room in   helsinki right before the fields medal ceremony. i 
was certainly trying to sort of guess from other   things and you talk to some journalists. so 
i think i had heard from one of the journalists   that i was the youngest fields medalist because 
the journalists obviously know the other ones.   but yeah i only knew for sure who the other 
ones were when i was backstage and i recognised   the other people. 
- (so when you got off that call who did you tell?)
- funnily enough this was in the   early evening and i'd arranged to meet a group of 
mathematicians in the pub. and so i went straight   off to the pub because i was already a bit late to 
meet them but i had to keep myself very quiet and   not tell anyone. so i had this very awkward period 
of like socialising with some other mathematicians   and just having chats about different things-
- (so they're like 'why are you late james?' and you're)   (like 'oh sorry, i was just winning a fields medal')
- yeah so i made up some rubbish excuse   about like getting distracted and getting 
too into my maths and something running over   and i was desperately trying to sort of not 
have a big beaming smile the entire time and to   just talk about other things. so the fields medal 
is always normally given at the international   congress of mathematicians. this was due to 
be held in russia in saint petersburg but   because of the war in ukraine it was decided 
that this was not feasible for obvious reasons   and so there was a somewhat last minute switch to 
helsinki. and most of the international congress   was then held online but they had an in-person 
ceremony for the awarding of the fields medals   in helsinki along with the initial talks and 
the opening ceremony. 
- (you go backstage - what, to some)   (green room or something - and that's when you 
first see the other winners?)
- yeah that's right. um yeah so i'm there in my suit feeling 
super nervous and i go backstage and there's   all the other winners and i think everyone is 
sort of super nervous and being a bit quiet and   then hugo dominil-copin comes in and he's 
exceptionally lively and he starts chatting   to people and he breaks the ice and then 
suddenly everyone's chatting to everyone   else and i think that was great because it 
calmed my nerves an awful lot.
- (did you know the) (three others? like to recognise them or?)
- um i visually recognised them yeah. so i had maybe   seen one or two of them before in person but 
i basically hadn't seen them in person and i   didn't know them personally but i knew who they 
were and i recognised them from photos i'd seen.   (did you know any much about their mathematics?)
- um i knew a little bit about most of their mathematics   yeah. i'd heard about some of the sort of main 
results that they'd had.
- (i sometimes look at)  (these lists of four yearly winners as these 
clusters and i always think you're kind of- you're)  (you're all bonded now aren't you? like that you're-
you're a little class. do you feel a bond with them?)  um i certainly feel a bit of a bond with them, 
yeah. i mean it's not like we've had any extra   community - it's not- we don't have a 2022 fields 
medalists whatsapp group or anything like that. but yeah there's a certain 
amount of camaraderie that you know   it was a very important time in my life and they 
were all going through exactly the same thing at exactly the same time.
- (brilliant. and what happens 
at the ceremony? did you have to make a speech? do)   (you just take your medal and walk off the stage? 
how does the procedure go?)
- so there's the award   ceremony initially where i just take my medal. then 
there's another distinguished mathematician in the   area who gives a sort of presentation on each of 
the winner's works but that's all i have to do for   that first day. and then in the second day i 
give a lecture associated to winning the fields   medal. 
- (so then you've got it, you know, you bring 
it home - we'll look at it in a minute hopefully.)   (there it is, i can't wait to see it. but like 
what next? like it's kind of like- i know there)  (are some other big prizes in mathematics now, 
like big big prizes but the fields medal still)   (seems to be like the nobel prize-y one. is there 
is there a feeling at all of 'hmm now what? like)   (that's like- that this could be the biggest thing 
i ever win!)
- yeah it's only downhill from here.   um i mean i think most mathematicians are 
kind of really motivated by mathematics. and so   i'm completely ecstatic and overjoyed that i've 
won the fields medal but you know the thing   that's always driven me is understanding kind of 
truth in mathematics and getting to the heart of   kind of mathematical puzzles and things 
like that. um and the sort of real satisfaction   is from when i prove a theorem that i really 
like, i get this immense joy from that. and so   that's still what drives me on and that's what 
drove me initially and that hasn't changed at   all. so i hope that i can keep my feet on 
the ground and not get too full of myself or   anything like that, and to just continue being a 
research mathematician who's driven by trying to   understand research mathematics. yeah so the 
fields medal is only awarded once every four   years and it's only awarded to mathematicians 
who are under the age of 40. so it's very much   only given to young mathematicians. i think 
originally this was intended to be a   prize for promising young mathematicians as an 
encouragement but just for historical reasons   the people who've won it has led to becoming a 
much more prestigious award than maybe it was   ever originally intended to be. and so there's now 
this odd status that one- at least one of the very   premier prizes in mathematics has this very 
young age limit. yeah i feel that there's   obvious benefits and disadvantages that on 
some level i sometimes find it a little bit   dissatisfying that nobel prizes 
are given to people really right   at the end of their career; often they've 
been retired for a long period of time   and so it's not selecting the sort of most 
exciting work and the people who you're expecting   to come up with the next breakthroughs. and that's 
one nice thing about the fields medal, that it is   choosing very promising and talented young 
mathematicians and people who are therefore   maybe amongst the people who might be making the 
next set of breakthroughs. 
- (you can- and you can)   (use the benefit of it - some of those little doors 
it opens and advantages it gives you, you can use)  (while you're still practicing.)
- uh yeah exactly. 
so that's certainly one benefit of the fields medal. obviously a big disadvantage is that the 
relatively low age limit has a certain distorting   effect that different education systems accelerate 
people to different extents and so a 40 year   cutoff is quite arbitrary. people who have to 
do military service are at disadvantages; people   who maybe take career breaks because of caring 
responsibilities or having children or things like   that it sort of slightly unfairly disadvantages. 
the fact that it's just once every four years with   this age limit means that what year you're born 
mod 4 has a advantage as to whether you have more   possible research time to make contributions or 
not. so it has lots of sort of slightly undesirable   effects like this as well.
- (yeah if you solve the 
riemann hypothesis as a 41 year old - too bad)  yeah exactly but if you'd somehow just been born one 
year earlier then everything would have been fine.   (can i please see the medal?)
- you can indeed. so this is my medal.
- (it comes in that case does it?)   yeah it came in this case. 
- (what was it like when they 
handed it to you? was it- what did that feel like?)   um i mean i think i was in a daze the 
entire time through the ceremony so   everything felt amazing and i was just on 
cloud nine but i was also slightly unaware of   everything that was going on.
- (did any of your family come over to helsinki?)
- no, so the   strange thing was that i was awarded my medal 
on the 5th of july but my first son was going to   be born on the 7th of july. so i received the 
medal on the 5th; on the morning of the 6th i gave   my talk associated to the fields medal. normally 
they give the talks in alphabetical order but   they changed the order because i needed to get 
back to the uk from finland. and i flew straight   back to the uk after giving the first talk in 
the morning and then in the morning of the   7th of july my first son was born. so that was a- 
it's going to be difficult to top that week.   (yeah, brilliant. and the last question i have is what 
do you do with it? like where like- what do you)   (do with the medal? do you ever look at it? does it 
have pride of place? is it locked in a safe or)   (like- you know as much as you can tell us.)
- yeah so this is one of the slightly disappointing things   i guess that because it is sort of valuable, 
both sentimentally but also i think the medal   itself is gold and so has some value, i 
sort of have it locked in a box at home which   means i don't actually see it very often, it's 
just sort of locked in a cupboard somewhere.   and so in some ways it's a bit silly that 
i win this medal that i'm super proud of,   i really like, but rather than show it off or 
look at it it just gets put in the cupboard.   a longer version of this interview can be found 
on our numberphile2 channel and i've also turned   that extended version into an episode of the 
numberphile podcast. you'll find that in all the   usual podcast places. plus for more videos with 
james maynard and an assortment of other fields   medalists check out links in the video description. 
this episode was supported by brilliant,   makers of fantastic online courses and puzzles and 
quizzes like the ones you're looking at right now.   now no doubt these are a workout for your brain, 
covering all manner of mathematics, computer   science, and just science in general but it's 
not just telling you stuff - talking down to you.   these are courses that you interact with and 
one of my favourite things about brilliant is   sometimes it's funny, it has personality. it's made 
by people with smiles on their faces, you can tell.  this is just fantastic stuff, it's so much fun. 
and now brilliant has a 30-day free trial so  there's another reason to go and have a look. go to 
brilliant.org/numberphile for the trial but that   code's also going to get you 20% off their annual 
plan. check them out people; it's clever, it's quirky. 'hello?' and the voice was saying 'hello, this 
is laszlo lovasz from budapest'. and then my   heart skipped a beat. 
see whether you're living in 
an even dimensional space or odd dimensional space-