- not only is the selfie
camera on your phone absolutely incredible for its size, but it probably has been
for about the last 10 years. which raises the question: what the heck is going on with pc laptops? it feels like not only have they not really improved
in any meaningful way, but in some cases they've
even gotten worse. now, my assumption here was
that laptop makers figured, eh, webcam, that's an
easy place to cut costs. but as it turns out, that is only a small piece of the puzzle. just like our sponsor, storyblocks, is a small part of this video. save time and money with storyblocks by getting studio-quality
stock video clips for a fraction of the cost. check it out today at the link below or learn more at the end of this video. (upbeat music) now, i gotta cop to this: although i've been one of
the most vocal reviewers trying to get decent
webcams into laptops... we expect that you're just
gonna use your phone quality. look how much better this one looks. that's not even a current-gen phone. the webcam falls considerably short of the surface laptop. after chatting with some engineers at hp, i might also be partially
responsible for them being so bad. but first, to understand
what makes a camera bad, we have to talk about what makes one good, starting with the sensor. this sony fx6 features an enormous 35-millimeter-wide full-frame sensor, and when it comes to
cameras, size matters. all other things being
equal, the bigger the sensor, the more light it can
collect on each pixel, improving color fidelity and greatly improving performance
in low-light conditions. so problem number one is that
due to space constraints, webcams use super small sensors, typically in the range of about two to five millimeters wide. that's the bit i'm concerned
i may have influenced. the thing is, as pressure
from consumers and reviewers mounted for the bezels
on laptops to shrink, so did the webcams shrink. i mean, we were stoked when dell announced refreshed xps models
with top-mounted webcams that didn't look up the user's nose, and i do still think that
was a worthwhile trade-off, but the results are not incredible. but does shrinking the bezel really make that much of a difference? yes, actually. let me show you. in the dragonfly max, hp
actually increased the bezel size compared to the last model to accommodate a five-millimeter sensor. - quick correction here. we said the sensor on the
dragonfly was five millimeters because, well, we were told
it's a fifth of an inch and a fifth of an inch
is five millimeters. in actual fact, it's 3.63 millimeters because camera sensors
don't use actual units and instead use the vidcon nominal size, which is about one and a half times larger than the actual dimensions of the sensor. this was something that was decided by camera marketers in the '90s to try and sell their
super-small-sensor digital cameras. still, much bigger sensor than the dell, but not quite as big as
we originally thought. anyway, back to linus. - now, that's still only 2% of the size of the fx6 i just showed you, but it's also a whopping
five times the size of the 2.2-millimeter sensor
in the skinny-bezel dells. this bigger sensor also allows more pixels to be packed
in for 1440p recording, which delivers a noticeable
improvement in sharpness compared to your typical 720p webcam. another problem for laptop webcams is windows hello facial recognition, something that i have
also championed loudly. it is the best way to sign
into windows, hands down, but because lighting conditions might be dramatically different from one sign-in to the next, it relies on built-in emitters that will illuminate your
face using infrared light. now, digital cameras are
inherently sensitive to infrared, but most of them actually
block it out on purpose because it causes issues
with both autofocus and color saturation. also, it travels through
some kinds of clothing, which is a little awkward. that's why earlier
implementations of windows hello used a separate camera
dedicated to capturing ir. but then, in that same
mad rush to shrink bezels, these have been combined in some models, and in spite of the software tuning that goes into these combined sensors, you can still get purple
splotchiness and weird noise. on the dragonfly max, then,
hp decided combined sensors were a pain in the butt they
didn't want to deal with, so they included a separate
ir and video camera to get you the cleanest feed possible. one thing they were really stoked about is a special coating they developed so you couldn't see the ir hardware. apparently it was very
difficult to do, so... um, good job, guys? now, of course, you can have the biggest, baddest sensor in the world, and if the glass in front of it is bad, your picture quality is going to be bad. one of the rolls that
the lens plays, then, is to ensure that that tiny sensor gets as much light hitting it as possible. now, the aperture of a camera,
or more accurately a lens, describes how big of an opening you have, so the bigger the opening,
the more light you can get. and since we already have problems with low light on such
small sensors, well, then we should make the aperture
on the lens for your webcam as wide open as possible, right? well, yes, but also no. the size of your aperture not only changes how much light is let in, but also the depth of field. lttstore.com, by the way. buy a shirt. so if we were to really open
up the lens on the laptop, it would need to have
exceptional autofocus to make sure that you don't go all blurry every time you shift around in your seat. now, there are many ways to do autofocus. probably the best way is demonstrated in sony's alpha lineup. like, look at how it instantly
grabs focus on the keys in this shot from our taycan review. it uses parts of the sensor to detect the phase of the incoming light and uses that to focus. modern phones use similar tech, probably at least partly because sony also supplies the sensors
for apple and samsung, with super small micro-electromechanical
systems, or mems, that can super accurately
focus the lenses. as for how laptop webcams
focus, well, they don't. there simply isn't enough space. like, think about the
thickness of your phone. i mean, sure, it's not
super chonker or anything, but compared to the thickness
of a laptop display, phones are enormous. throw in that most laptop designers want a smooth, sexy curve
at the edge of the display and then the cabling from
the webcam, microphone, and wi-fi antennas that
are usually back there and you don't have the
space that you would need for multi-element lenses. so just a single focus
point has to be picked and that's what you're stuck with. so even for the dragonfly
max, which is supposed to be our shining star today of a decent webcam, hp focused the lens at 50 centimeters, which is the average distance that someone sits from their
computer during a video call, and figures, well, you'll
get acceptable focus anywhere from 30 to 90 centimeters. all of this means that, due
largely to space constraints, this is as good of an
image as you can expect to be getting out of a
webcam on your laptop. but what if you didn't
have size constraints? here we've got the dell ultrasharp webcam, which not only uses a larger
five-millimeter-ish sensor, but also has a multi-element lens to improve the image quality. with that said, it does still lag behind
the rear camera of a phone because the third critical step in squeezing the best
possible image quality out of these tiny sensors
is post-processing. apple and google, for instance, use techniques like
sharpening and ai upscaling to enhance their performance. dell apparently has not sold
enough extended warranties to match apple and
google's r&d in this area, but on a zoom call it
is more than acceptable. of course, you could get away
with mediocre video just fine if your audio quality is good. now, simple laptop microphones have one or sometimes two little holes, usually near the screen,
to capture your voice, while better ones can use more. the dragonfly elite, for example, has two super tiny holes in the lid that have mics behind them that sample the noise in your room and then try to cancel it out. now, in the past, noise cancellation was only really good for removing constant noises
like a loud air conditioner, not as good for short noises like a dog barking or police sirens. to combat this, ai noise
cancellation can also be used, which we demonstrated in
this video about rtx voice. it's kind of amazing how good it is at removing random noises. - and i'm going to be very impressed if rtx is able to get rid of this! - so, then, the bad news today is that there are serious constraints to improving webcam quality in laptops. but the good news is
that they can get better and some laptop manufacturers are beginning to take
the problem seriously. all it took was everyone working from home due to a global pandemic. i will have to be more careful
what i ask for in the future. that is some real monkey
paw stuff right there. thanks to storyblocks, by the way, for sponsoring today's video. storyblocks helps you
bring your stories to life without sacrifices due to time,
budget, or other resources. they feature over one million
different stock assets and you can save even more time using storyblocks'
in-browser video editor. it features pre-designed
templates, animations, and outros. and storyblocks uses an
affordable subscription model. their unlimited all-access plan gives you unlimited
video and audio downloads instead of a costly pay-per-clip model. we use it all the time on techquickie because we don't always have the time to go out and shoot the
perfect b-roll footage. so check out storyblocks today at storyblocks.com/linustechtips. if you guys are looking
for another video to watch, maybe check out our first look at sensel's force touch trackpad. it is going to straight-up
change how we use laptops in the coming years.