this is officially your yacht. congrats, man. the only catch is i'm going to do
everything in my power to destroy it. and it's up to you to protect it
from attacks like 100 cannonballs, massive explosives,
and so much more. you got to be kidding me. and you have exactly 24 hours from
now to build your defenses for the yacht. time has started. good luck. all right, dude. let's see if this yacht sinks. sean, using my credit card, immediately
bought a bunch of supplies and began building his defense
against phase one, 100 cannon shots. run me through your plan. my plan is to build a giant wall angled
to hopefully block the cannon fire. and after working
all throughout the night, into the next morning
and all the way through a complete 24 hours,
sean was going to have to call it. because the time is up. let's go shoot some cannons. will his defense protect his new yacht from a hundred cannonballs or will we start this video over
with a new contestant? phase one of four has begun. - i'm nervous.
- all right, sean. we're about to fire the cannons
at your new yacht. - terrifying.
- aim the cannon. fire. that's just going right through. dude, it is ripping through
those storage containers. the cannons were melting
through his defense like butter. i'm toast, man. i feel like i lost a little piece
of my soul. and probably a piece of your yacht. the cannons were already
damaging sean's yacht, and we're just getting started. these cannons are tearing me up.
she's a goner. i guarantee
it just went straight through. we kept firing cannon after cannon
ripping through sean's defense. these cannons were way more hardcore
than i thought they were. after a torturous three hours. oh, go, go, go. let's go see this thing. somehow. god, i hope my yacht isn't shredded. sean's yacht actually survived. you have a tiny hole
and it hit a rail. dude. bro, a cannonball hit right here. but that was only the least
of the damage. no. the bathroom in sean's yacht
was completely destroyed. look at that mirror right there. three cannonballs hit your yacht
and you nearly survived phase one. i'll take it. three out of a hundred.
it's pretty good. no, i need you to take
phase two more seriously. ok. and if you don't think i'm
being serious, i'll just show you. bring out the bomb. in 24 hours. those 15 sea bombs
will explode around your yacht. oh, no. and by the way, we tested
these things before the video. they are extremely powerful. 15 big booms
in a circle around this thing. how am i going to protect this? i'm gonna go hit the hay in a yacht
surrounded by bombs. come back
fresh in a couple of hours. sean got up the next morning
and immediately got to work, but because of the severe thunderstorm,
he couldn't use his crane. this is brutal. we're doing everything today
by hand. how are you going to pad up the yacht? mattresses. that's right. sean's big plan is mattresses and his workers bought
every mattress in town. all of those mattresses. we'll start
ferrying them back and forth. there we go. all the way around, every inch. i can't even tell this is a yacht anymore. it just looks like
a bunch of mattresses. in 2 hours, we blew up the mines
and he hasn't really done as much as i thought. these are heavy. you know how much easier
this would be with the crane? you know how much easier this
would be if it wasn't in water? yes. clock's ticking. this is not looking good. i don't think his yacht's going to survive. three, two, one. time's up. that's all i'm going to get. so he has some mattresses and water
jugs. karl, can you cover his ears? this might be the most hideous thing
i've ever seen. what i'm getting from you is you
don't think this is going to work? - yeah.
- yeah? yeah. let's see if the yacht sinks. any last words? can i have the hat? i will give you
my hat if your yacht survives. all right. three, two, one. blow it up. no! oh my gosh. - there's no way that didn't do damage.
- it is over. - come on.
- let's go check it out. my yacht. it looks good. she's still standing. you did it. it just burned the mattresses.
that's right. i'm not sure what to say. somehow,
these mattresses were actually a very effective defense
against the mines. in front of us is phase three. this attack
consist of three different levels. we're going to be launching
a million fireworks straight at your yacht, followed by a barrage
of flaming arrows, a level higher and finally catapults launching
flaming death balls from the sky. and by now, sean's build strategies
were getting pretty efficient. he gave his crew orders. yeah, let's go
ahead and get those containers moved into
place for phase three. then got some much needed rest
while they worked. now it's on to trebuchets, fireworks
and flaming arrows. what is your plan? my plan is to basically get more
shipping containers and build a giant wall. and i'm basically
just hoping that that wall will be tall enough to block the fireworks
and the flaming catapult debris from hitting the yacht. that's so sketch
this whole thing is so sketch. today is my day. i'm feeling it. i'm hard... - hard confidence now.
- okay. compared to phase two. this is insane. - you really stepped it up.
- yeah, man. you went from a pathetic build that
led multiple cannonballs through to this, which i actually
think might work. he is currently taking lake water,
flushing it through sprinklers to wet his mattresses. all right, we're about to go
inspect his defenses. is now a bad time to tell you guys,
i'm afraid of heights? this is a 40 foot tall, solid wall. when we fling the catapults, they're going to fly over
the shipping containers where i'm at and hopefully hit his yacht. right? no, you're going to miss. hey, chandler envision you're catapult
with giant flaming balls. i got you. ready? aim,  fire. that's the one. dead hit. your boat's going down. not going to happen. all right,
so why are you so confident? you have 30 seconds where you can be
building and you're doing nothing. we're ready. it's covered up.
i built the wall. everything's wet back there. do we even need to wait 20 seconds? no, let it rip. let's do it. time's up. phase three is upon us. catapults, flaming arrows
and a million fireworks. let's see if this yacht lights on fire. ready the fireworks. any last words? good luck. fire the fireworks. oh, my god. that doesn't look real, bro. that is wild. oh my gosh. how is this... how is this doing that? while these pretty fireworks are going off, i'm going to tell you about
bloons tower defense 6. bloons tower defense is a game i've actually been playing
since i was a teenager. - oh my god!
- they're so many. no joke. i used to literally play this
in english class when i was 15. dude, i see smoke on his yacht. and they're back with their sixth
installment of the game. bloons tower defense 6. oh, my god. how is this doing that? and if you've never played
bloons tower defense, basically you defend yourself
against the balloons  by placing monkey towers
and heroes on the map. - i want to celebrate something right now.
- oh my goodness, bro. it's hitting his yacht. oh, yeah.
it is hitting the top of his yacht. that firework just hit his yacht. blow up the arrows. now, it's time for
a thousand flaming arrows. oh my god. the arrows are going
right over his wall. - wow.
- yeah! i wouldn't cheer yet. ready to catapults. ready? and because of the sponsor, the next
thing we're flinging are balloons... ...on fire. here we go. basically, flaming bowling balls. fire in the hole. there goes. that's going straight for his yacht. they hit the shipping container
right by his yacht. let's go, baby. if you buy anything in-game, use mrbeast in the supporter creator code,
if you want to support me and help me do more videos
like this. make sure you download
bloons tower defense 6. and if you download it right now,
you can get a mrbeast pack for free. oh my god! dude, his boat is exposed. sean, i'm feeling worried for you
right now, bro. i'm still feeling good.
i think i'm good. this is a heavy balloon. dude, this looks nothing like a balloon. you just don't look good enough balloons. the defenses are falling let it rip. and if just one of these catapult shots
lands on sean's yacht, this whole video might be over. that was a little closer
than i thought it was going to be. fire the final catapult. oh, that's a direct hit. water. the only thing burned today is me, boys. all right. you know what? sean, you might be laughing now, but you are not ready for this
final phase. in 24 hours from now,
we will be attacking your yacht with a barrage of machine guns. any questions about phase four? in addition to every single phase
so far in this video combined the fireworks, the catapults,
the arrows, the 100 cannons. you have 100 more cannonballs? and rather than a bunch of bombs, this giant monstrosity,
borderline nuclear missile, questionably even illegal,
island flattening sea mine. all of that on top of machine
guns? yeah. today is phase
four of the challenge. the general plan is to just put a ton of stuff between my yacht
and the up and coming attacks. we're going to use
the remaining crates to try to block any cracks
the bullets might get through. that container is just perfectly placed
for this outside purge. use as much dirt as we can
to create an impact barrier right in front of the wall where
the cannons are going to shoot. and since the giant bomb
can be sent from behind, i'm just going to do what i can with the time remaining and close
the back with water filled barrels. this challenge is tough. i mean, i'm away from home. i'm missing the family and the water element makes everything
so difficult because you can't just walk out to the boat
and put stuff on it. it's made it so difficult. that bomb has me nervous. he has multiple layers of metal shields
for the machine guns, a mound of sand and a bunch
of other stuff to stop the cannons. he still has the tall wall
for the projectiles and the soaked mattresses. five, four, three, two, one. everybody stop. time is up. i think this is all
been a bad dream. no, this is real life. even though it's my job
to destroy your yacht, i genuinely hope you win this thing. ever since i was a little kid,
i always wanted a boat like this. i just got to get through this
final phase and we're home free. if you think about it, 100 hours ago,
there was just a boat. and now there's all of this. i don't know how you did it. you nervous? no, no. that makes literally no sense at all. this final phase
may just be your worst nightmare. ready your weapons. on top of all these machine guns,
we have 100 cannons, a giant mine, the equivalent of all
15 from earlier. all of the fireworks, arrows and
catapults all together in one final phase fire. they're in the boat.
i just saw one. bro they're actually aiming
through the cracks. and if things couldn't
get more chaotic, one of the shooters accidently shot the fireworks in
and caused this to happen. well, it looks like you made
the full package. what is going on? i'm going to be honest
with you, sean. i don't think your yacht's
going to make it. but i think it's time for the next stage. prepare the cannons. let's
see if you've learned your lesson from the last time we fired these cannons. fire. i saw one hit. it's actually scaring me now. although one of the cannonballs
hit his yacht, the crate and mound of dirt were
able to stop the rest of the impact. and his defense against my flaming
catapults were so effective, he even caught a burning death ball. i caught it. wait, did that land
in the shipping container? at the rate we're going,
this is going to take all night. i think we just send everything
all at once. i want you to launch cannons,
fireworks, arrows, catapults,
everything at the same time. three, two, one. fire everything. look at how much smoke is out there. it's like world war iii. how much more is this gonna take, jimmy? dude, this is killing me. you can't even see anything.
there's so much smoke. while we're watching sean's yacht perish, we're going to enjoy some chocolate. fire the cannons. sean, so far, we've launched almost
every attack we have on your yacht. but like every youtube video
i've ever done, we're saving the best for last. or, in your case,
the worst for last. we took the 14
sea bombs from earlier in this video, combined them into one mega sea bomb. and it is currently on an rc boat
heading directly to blow up your yacht. this explosion
is going to be massive. all right. there she goes. there she goes. - that was crazy.
- dude! - let's go see if it's there.
- let's go check it out. let's go see my yacht. look at everything
his yacht endured. i'm done a lot of weird things. i never experienced
something like this before. you didn't say
it had to be pretty. and after all of that,
your yacht is still floating, but it does look like some stray bullets
and cannonballs made it through. so, boys, bring it up. here's $50,000. - yeah.
- so you could actually repair this yacht. yes. before we end the video, they're going to
want to know... what is the name of your
brand new yacht? its name is... oh, and if you're wondering. yes, we did ensure the lake
was completely cleaned up after this video. for the love of god,
subscribe so we can pass t-series.