if you look at the current top ten in the prime charts you'll see the top 10 largest primes at the moment, and you may notice that one of them stands out. one of them is not quite like the others. it's quite a special prime, it was actually discovered fairly recently; 
it was discovered on october 31st 2016, it was discovered on halloween 2016. but all the other primes are mersenne primes, 
they're all primes that are one less than a power of two. and there's a reason for that, because computationally it's quite easy to check if they are primes or not, right? there is a- there is a test for that which you can run quite quickly. number seven there is slightly different. there's a couple of reasons why it's special and one of the reasons is that it takes us one step closer to solving a fifty-year-old conjecture. so let's take a look at this prime. so this number- it's called a proth prime. so proth prime's have this form where it's k, that's some number, multiplied by a power of two plus one. let's see if we can find a proth prime. what i'm gonna do, let's
take a value; i'm gonna say k is 19, all right? let's take k as 19 and then we're gonna multiply it by powers of two, add one, and let's see if we get a prime. well let's do the first power of two. 19 times 2, 38. plus 1 that equals 39, but that's not a prime; it's 3 times 13 that's no good. let's check for another. let's try 19 again but let's do 2 squared. so 19 times times 4, well 19 times 2 is 38 so we can double that again. that's 76, plus
1 that's 77; that's definitely not a prime, that's 7 times 11. let's keep going, let's see if we can find one. let's do 
19 times 2 to power 3. that is 153,153 is that prime? that's maybe not so obvious, but no that isn't prime. 19 times 2 to the power 4, ok we're gonna keep looking. i i think 
that is - plus 1 of course - that is 305, that's definitely not a prime. okay another failure, let's keep looking for a prime. let's do the next one.
19 times 2 to the 5 plus 1, i've got that as being 609, no that's divisible by 3.
- (brady: i think you're gonna get us) (on that top 10 list at this rate!
- it's gonna- actually we've got it. we've got it - look
at this one. 19 times 2 to the power 6,1217 - prime!
that is a prime. finally we found a pri- took a while. yeah, it took a while but eventually we found a prime. in the 1960s, mathematician sierpinski said that if you take something of this form: it's k times 2 to power n plus 1, and you keep running through it, there are numbers that will never hit a prime. so you'll keep going forever and you'll never get a prime. in fact he said there were infinitely many of them. so there's 
loads of them out there. the natural question is, what's the smallest one? ah, well we don't quite know. so they think it might be this number: 78557.
- (brady: as k?) yeah that's as k. so i'm saying if 
we multiply that by 2 to the n, and then we add 1; we run through that process we'll never hit a prime, it's never going to happen. in fact i know that's never going to happen. so a mathematician called john selfridge showed that that's never gonna happen. he showed that this number, whatever it is, will always be divisible by one of these: 3, 5, 7, 13, 19, 37 or 73. 
so he said it's always gonna be divisible by one of those, so it's never going to be a prime. that definitely is a sierpinski number, okay? this is a number that will never hit a prime, great; but is it the smallest one? that we don't know. now there's quite a few candidates for this - well in fact we're gonna have to check all the numbers smaller than 78557. well you can do that. and most of those were eliminated. until roundabout the beginning of the 21st century there were 17 left. 17 that hadn't been eliminated. so there might be numbers that are smaller than 78557, and you could do this and you'll never hit a prime. so there were 17 candidates left. but, thanks to advances in computation, that meant we could start eliminating these candidates. now we started to eliminate them until there were six left. these are the six that were left. the smallest was 10223. but here are the others: 21181, 22699, 24737, 55459 and 67607. so there were these six candidates
left. but things started to slow down and i'm afraid there was a gap of nine years before we were able to eliminate one of these six, which was this one here: 10223 because we now know that forms a prime. here's, here's our prime, this is it! 
there it is, we know it does form a prime. and now this is struck off the list leaving five left. now if we can eliminate those last five candidates we will have proved that 78558 is the smallest sierpinski number.
- (brady: so james, was this) (really large prime not so much found) (because they were searching for large) (primes but because they were trying to) (eliminate ks?)
- they- that is part of the motivation for this. this was found by a guy in hungary on his home computer. where he's downloaded a program, you can get it from the primegrid website. and this program was designed to eliminate those seventeen that if i 
talked about. and using that program he finally eliminated 10223. so you can do this yourself, using your own home computer. so he gets the glory of solving that and the glory of striking off one of these candidates off our list. so we have these candidates and then you find a prime that kills it off as a candidate - so those primes are huge. this one that was found recently is over nine million digits long, it's a massive number. the largest of these primes that are killing off candidates, they've actually got a special name. they're called 
colbert primes, named after stephen colbert. stephen colbert, some people might know, as the host of the late show in america? american comedian? i don't know why these have been named after stephen colbert; i guess someone's a fan. but if we can eliminate all these candidates we will have proven that 78557 is the smallest sierpinski number. we don't know it's true, it just feels true; in our guts it has truthiness. obviously we love these videos about 
arbitrary numbers and obscure details; but to see how everything fits together, to get that bigger picture, why not check out
brilliant.org here's just the start of their number theory course. it's full of little questions and puzzles that are not only good fun but really help you get your head around stuff. and have a look at that - how can this not be quickening your pulse rate? whether you're really serious about mathematics or you just love to learn, brilliant's interactive site is going to teach you all sorts of amazing stuff that you might not get from, say, just a superficial video - not that there's anything wrong with videos of course, keep watching these too. but seriously i honestly think you'll enjoy what these guys have made. it's a really really good resource. it's also just really good fun to play with. if you'd like to check them out go to brillaint.org/numberphile. the first 314 people who do, and sign up, can get 20% off the premium annual subscription. that's the first 314 - see what we did there? they don't just cover mathematics; there's astronomy, physics, computer science - all sorts of good stuff. thank you to them for supporting this video and i'll put some details in the 
video description.