- hey guys, this is austin, and this is about the cleanest gaming
laptop you'll ever find. this video is sponsored by lenovo, and this is the legion y7000. so if you guys are not familiar, legion is lenovo's gaming brand, and they build some
really interesting stuff. first of all, take a look at this laptop, you know what you won't find, rgb, or really anything that
sort of screams gamer. this is a very understated
design, and i like it. combine that clean white lighting with the all matte black look, and this is a seriously
different gaming laptop. and it's also helped by the fact that this is a nice soft touch material as well. performance is definitely
it's strong suit, with the y7000, inside you'll find a core i7-8750h, this is the latest generation 8th gen processor. which importantly has not only six cores, but also a boost clock of up
to 4.1ghz. now sure, games are becoming
more and more multithreaded to take advantage of
that six core processor. where i really notice the biggest
difference is in multitasking. even when i have a ton
of programs and tabs up, maybe i'm doing something
like installing a game in the background or trying
to stream, it does hold up. that i7 is backed up by
a full nvidia gtx 1060, with six gigs of ram, so this
is a really good combination for a gaming laptop like this, especially when it comes
to playing at 1080p, the 1060 has absolutely no problems. this 1080p panel is pretty solid, it's a full 15.6 inches and importantly, it does have a pretty brightness of around 300 nits from that ips display. i will say there are a
lot of configurations with this laptop, so my
model has 16 gigs of ram, which is backed up by a 128 gig ssd, and a one terabyte hard drive. but you can option this
down to eight gigs of ram if you want, you can also
go for pure ssd storage, and one of the cooler upgrades
is a full 144hz panel. personally i would opt for
that 144hz display, this actually has enough
power to play a lot of games, not only maxed out at 1080p, but well above 60 frames per second. we are not dead yet,
that's always a great sign. so fortnite is absolutely
no problem for the system, we're easily able to play at
1080p, with fully maxed settings. and we're getting somewhere in the 70 to 80 frame per second range. that 144hz panel would
absolutely be paying off right now, also did you guys
see i didn't die there? - [matt] austin, can we
seriously play something else? - wait wait, why not, don't
you wanna see more fortnite? - [matt] nooo. - what do you wanna play? - [ken] black ops. - [matt] black ops. - black ops, oh, oh i just died, so i guess we have to
play black ops now, fine. no more fortnite, look
at the settings here. yo shout out to whoever
made this one, treyarch, this is actually really really nice. we got global illumination
qualities, sub surface scattering, wow this is
actually a proper pc port. oh that's a lot of dudes,
oh wow are you serious, everyone's dropping right here? oh this is bad, this is really bad. listen to those speakers. it actually sounds really good. so this does have harman kardon audio, it has a pair of front firing speakers which sound pretty good to me. performance seems to be pretty solid, so we are running with pretty much full, maxed out settings at 1080p, and right now, i'm
getting about 80 frames, the lowest i've really seen
though is around the 60 mark, where, where is that coming from? wow did i actually shoot him? (jazzy music) wow! now this is not the
thinnest gaming laptop around, but it is fairly portable,
it's only a little bit over an inch thick and it
weighs about five pounds. realistically this is a nice sweet spot between a super thin and
very expensive gaming laptop, as well as something that's much thicker. it's got good thermals,
but it's also something that you can actually, you
know, fit in your backpack. or i don't know, ken what do
you do with gaming laptops, where do you put them? - [ken] on my desk. (laptop clatters) - here's the test, i can easily
hold the laptop in one hand, no problem, that my friends, is the gaming laptop portability test. one of the interesting design decisions is to slightly raise
the screen and the hinge to give more room for
the thermals underneath. so basically all of the hot
air is being exhausted out the back and it still does leave
room for most of your ports. the selection is pretty solid, so there is a usb-c port, which sadly doesn't split thunderbolt 3,
but it's still appreciated. we do have a mini displayport, usb-a, as well as hdmi and gigabit ethernet. and on the left and
right side of the laptop, we have another pair of usb-a ports, giving you a grand total of three. that's especially appreciated
because even though it's nice to have a lot
of the ports around back, sometimes, you know, you wanna plug in a flash drive to the side of the laptop. the keyboard is classic lenovo, which is to say it's about as
good as it gets for a laptop. not only do the keys have
that nice very familiar shape, but importantly the feel
is pretty much on point. not only for typing, but
especially for gaming. the lenovo legion y7000, is a
seriously dope gaming laptop. not only does it have
plenty of performance for 1080p gaming and streaming. but importantly not
only does it look nice, but it won't break the bank,
definitely worth a look.