- you may have seen a video i did recently on why i'm switching to android. well, yes, that might
be the right decision for me personally, there are
two sides to every argument, and the iphone se 2020
is one hell of a side. in case you've been living under a rock, the iphone se takes the
same tried and true formula from the original se
which, of course, came out over four years ago, and simply
takes all of the most recent internals and puts it into a
much more affordable package because at 399, there's no
doubt that this is probably the best value iphone
that has ever been made. also, that's very red. at $399, you're not sacrificing
a lot beyond, i guess, the fact that it still comes
with the tiny five watt charger in the box. so you still get water resistance, something that is pretty
rare on phones at this price. you get wireless charging,
and probably most importantly, you get the same apple a13
chip as in the full iphone 11 and the 11 pro range, which
means that this $399 phone is probably the most powerful phone that you can get regardless of price. one small recommendation
though, while you can pick up the base model
with 64 gigs of storage, for only $50 more, you can
upgrade that to 128 gigs, and i would definitely recommend that. it's certainly usable to spend
time with a 64-gig phone, but considering it's not that
much more, you're gonna get a lot more longevity, especially
considering that this phone should be getting updates
for years to come. apple delivered this with
a very simple strategy, the parts bin. so the design here is very
similar to 2018's iphone 8, which is an upgraded
version of the iphone 7, which you could buy after
the iphone 6 came out. of course, that being the
s model of the iphone 6, so this design, i guess, is
five years old at this point, which to be fair, if it
ain't broke, don't fix it, and if you're broke, buy an iphone se. i'll admit, i'm not a
massive fan of this design. while, yes, it is better
than that original iphone 6, i like the glass back, and they've done a couple of minor tweaks, but generally speaking,
it lacks the specialness of that original se, which had that awesome chamfered
design, that really tiny size. i was about to say it's
not an outdated design, but when you look at the front, you look at the giant
size of the bezels here, it does look a little bit dated. well yes, it is time for me
to set up apple pay and siri in the settings. a lot of components have been lifted straight off of the iphone
8, including touch id, which makes sense considering
that it is much more mask friendly than face
id, and, of course, the screen itself, while it
is only a 4.7-inch display, and yeah, it's low
resolution, blah, blah, blah, the thing is, this is
still a very bright color accurate ips panel, and it
has held up remarkably well considering that it's, well,
a few years old at this point, but you know what doesn't feel
like a five-year-old design? the sponsor of today's
video, rise of kingdoms. rise of kingdoms is a free to
play real-time strategy game. you can choose one of 11 civilizations, and build your army, and have them be led by historical commanders. one of the things that i appreciated about rise of kingdoms is just
how much there is to do. after you focus on building your city, you can go fight barbarians, and it all takes place
on a seamless rts map. the battles happen in real
time, and there's so much detail in the game between the individual cities, as well as everything you want
to do to customize your army, and even stuff like day
night cycles, and weather. there's always something to experience. there's also a special
event going on right now called the osiris league,
where you can earn even more in game rewards. governors can join alliances
of up to 170 players and band together to form vast empires. now, i've only been playing
the game for a few days. what i found is that there's
a ton of depth there. there's a lot that you can experience. there's a lot that you can
do without having to leave the confines of your own home. if this sounds fun, you
want to give it a try and help support the channel, definitely be sure to
check out rise of kingdoms at the link in the description. of course, huge shout out
to them for sponsoring our iphone se video. the most impressive part of the se is absolutely the apple a13 inside. let me be super clear. this is the most powerful
phone you can buy, period. i don't care what price
point you're playing in. so it is pretty much
identical to what you get on the iphone 11 and the 11 pro, even though it is down
to three gigs of ram compared to four, but
trust me, you won't notice, and when you put this thing
side by side with a pixel 3a, it is not even close. you also have wi-fi 6,
as well as bluetooth 5 from the bigger iphones. it has support for nfc,
as well as apple pay. the se camera is a
hybrid of the iphone 8 lens and sensor and the iphone 11 processor. what this means is it actually
is a fairly decent step up, and it does get really
close to the iphone 11. when you look at a lot of
these stills side by side, the dynamic range especially
is very impressive. the only place that you really
do notice a deficiency here is in the sharpness of the image. if you're looking at it on
instagram, you're totally fine, but as soon as you start to pixel peep, you notice that is a little
bit on the softer side. somewhere else the se falls a bit short is in the night sight mode, or rather, the lack of because while
yes, the low light photos are fine on the iphone,
they're much much better on something like the pixel 3a. when you put it together
as a whole though, it is a solid package, and
it does have portrait mode for both the rear camera
as well as the front. now, as with all of these
things, it always misses the side of my glasses, but beyond that, it does do a respectable job. where, i think, the iphone
se really shines is in video. so this is 4k video, completely untouched, straight off of the
iphone se, and while yes, it might not be quite as
stable as something like what you get on the iphone
11, it's really impressive to see this level of
video quality on a phone at this price, right? i mean, generally
speaking, iphones have been ahead of the game on video for a while, and this really cements
that even at a 399 budget. while on paper, the 1,800
milliamp hour battery isn't particularly impressive, because of the efficient
display, processor and ios, battery life actually
isn't too bad on the se. still not quite where i would like it. it does feel a little bit
of a generation behind, but it is certainly enough
to make it through a day. so as someone who's been
struggling with the decision between ios and android, there have been a lot of major advantages that i've seen on both sides, which makes it a very complicated decision because at its very root,
both android and ios are very, very good these days. so for example, with android,
one of the main advantages is, of course, the customization not only in the operating system, which, of course, gives you a much deeper level of control, but also, in the amount of
hardware that you can pick up. now, yes, the iphone line
is probably the broadest that it's ever been, between
the se on the low end, you have the iphone 11,
the pro, the pro max, but even that pales in comparison to the hundreds of
legitimately very impressive android options out there. if you want folding phones, as i mentioned my previous
video, if you care about 5g and high refresh rate, all
that stuff is available on the android side of the fence. when it comes to app
support, at least for me, 95% of the apps that
i use on a daily basis are available not only on android and ios, but are very similar quality. there aren't major differences. of course, what are phones
these days beyond a camera, and just a portal to
whatever app you want to use. now, there are certainly some exceptions. instagram would be a good one, which i do think is
significantly better on ios and of course, there are some advantages on the android side of the camp. for example, if you want
to play some retro games via an emulator, good
luck trying to do that on iphone unless you want to
do some weird side loading. when you talk about the apple ecosystem, there is a negative connotation there, and i will certainly admit,
i have perpetuated that with, i mean, even my last video. now, yes, it is very annoying once you get into the apple ecosystem, and everyone has you on imessage, and your grandma calls you on facetime, and you're charging with your apple card, and you have your apple
watch, and your airpods, and your mac and your ipad. i mean, there's so many things
that make it very difficult once you have that iphone to get out, but by that same token,
there are some advantages, of course, too, if you have
a couple of apple devices in your life, right? having an imessage pop
up on your mac is great, or being able to take a call
on your ipad or vice versa. all this stuff is nice to see, but you don't have to go all in. one thing i will say though,
if you are coming from android, all the google apps work great on ios with almost no exceptions, but if you're going
from iphone to android, well, you can listen to apple music, and probably another app. i can't think of one, though. something i will give apple
props for is the level of focus they put on not only security,
but also privacy in ios. not only does apple have
an excellent track record of continuously supporting devices, something i'll talk
about a little bit later, but on top of that, they
also put a lot of emphasis on privacy, and we've done
an entire video on this, so you can definitely find out more about my personal thoughts, but tl;dw, i definitely think apple does a better job than pretty much anyone
else in the industry for protecting your personal privacy. yes, if you look at a
poll of random people, they might think that google or facebook are more trustworthy, which i find to be quite wrong, but generally speaking, when you look at just how much
they've invested in things such as differential privacy, and when you look at the
general business model of apple makes money when they sell you a phone, and google makes money
when they sell you an ad using the data they
acquire using their phones, it kind of becomes fairly straightforward, in my opinion that while we
all spend a lot of time online, but especially these days
with all of us so invested in our digital lives, i think
it really matters personally, that i have a device that
actually is looking out for my privacy. yes, that might be a little bit overblown. yes, i might be that
weirdo on the internet telling you about why privacy matters, but i do think this is a
legitimate selling point for using ios and apple
products in general. if i had to give you a single pitch on why ios might make more sense for you, compared to android, it will be in the long-term software support. now, android has certainly gotten better, but generally speaking, an android phone may only get you around
two years or so of updates, and that might not even be major updates. those might be security
updates after you get one major release. on the ios side, you're pretty much, if you look at the last
few years of phones, looking at somewhere
between five and six years of software support. i mean, look at the iphone 6s. this is a flagship phone
that came out in 2015, and is still getting updates here in 2020, and very likely may
continue to get updates through the next year,
year and a half or so. there's simply no other android phone that can come close,
regardless of the price. even if you look at something
like the google pixel line, the original pixel 1 is
already stopped getting updates as of december of 2019, and
that's the best case scenario where it actually got more updates than google originally promised. okay, so say you're considering
this safe, practical choice of buying an iphone this time around? well, at that $400 price
point, the iphone se 2020 seems like the obvious choice, right? well maybe, but there are
a couple of other things you may consider. so for example, at around
that same $400 price point, you can buy a used or
refurbished iphone xr. now the xr is a great phone. it was my daily for pretty
much all of last year, and for good reason. not only does it have the
modern swipey face id design, swipey, i'm gonna say this
is a swipey, swipey designs. yeah, it has to swipey design,
but you also have a great camera, very solid battery life, but the downside is is that if
you do pick up a used phone, as always, you have to
consider that that battery is probably going to
be not at 100% health, whereas, when you look at
the se, it actually has a slightly newer processor,
which means it will get updates for longer and you have
that security knowing that it has not been abused by little timmy with his 20-hour fortnite gaming sessions. you can also just buy
a brand new iphone 11, which, at $700, is almost
double the price of the se, but for your extra $300,
you're getting a better camera as well as an ultra wide,
you're getting a bigger display with your swipey interface,
as well as your face id, and you are also getting what should be at least somewhat better battery life. the iphone 11 does a pretty good job, whereas the se, of course, is fine, but when you look at the
almost doubled price tag, a lot of those benefits, i would argue, probably aren't worth it for most people. if you look at something
like the iphone 11 pro, stop. there is no reason to spend
$1,000-plus on an iphone 11 pro right now, when not only could
you get a lot of other phones that are, i would argue,
just as good, if not better, but also, there's certainly
going to be a major update later this year, which will
bring higher refresh rate, and 5g, and all that stuff. don't spend $1,000 on an iphone right now. just don't do that. so is it time to switch to ios? if you are looking for
something in the mid-range, then, iphone se 2020 is a no-brainer. it really is a game-changer, and if you don't really care
about android versus ios, it is an incredibly compelling value. if however, you were looking for something a little bit more exciting,
a little bit more expensive, you want a brand new flagship, then, there are many, many
reasons why i personally think android is the move right now. so i am very curious,
is the iphone se enough to tempt you away from android? definitely be sure to let
me know, and of course, huge shout out to rise of kingdoms for sponsoring this video. don't forget to go download them at the link in the description. until next time, i'm going to go remember how to use the home button. is than an awkward way to end the frame? that's a little bit weird, isn't it?