okay, it definitely wasn't all me. these guys helped, but as a team, we have built some pretty sick computers over the years. and as we were going through your guys' submissions for your favorites, i gotta confess, i had totally forgotten about some of them. me too, i believe it. starting with number one. oh no, i didn't forget about this one. this is number one, the pyramid pc. like this was everyone's favorite? no, this is just number one. everyone's favorite is the last one. oh, it's in reverse order. well, i thought the pyramid pc was pretty cool. it was pretty cool. does he still use this? not only is it in use, but a custom desk was created to accommodate it. shut up. that's actually legitimately pretty cool. it's nice when people like appreciate stuff. i actually don't like this one. really? really? i've never really been like the illuminati, the pyramid meme kind of guy. i give this an eight out of 10, easy. how much i like it, it's a four. it would do a lot better for me if it didn't have the big gaudy overclocking button. that turns it off. that sucks. it's a meme. there's a power button. there's literally a power button. i have a cat. yeah, but it's just- the cat would be like, "oh!" i'll give it a seven and a half. i think we should have to do integer numbers. okay, eight. two. hey! no way! come on! bull s***. there's no way this is top 25. made it, made it. he literally glued rocks into a computer and you guys are like, "oh my god." who's done it before? there was imitators afterwards. maybe nobody did it for a reason. i had to wash luke's rocks. did you actually? i thought i did that myself. i don't think you washed my rocks. maybe we did it together. this is, it looks so half-assed. the idea is cool. the execution is like a sick cent and a half. i think it shedded a lot of rocks. yeah, but i kept it for six years. maybe if you wash them better. credit to, i think it was brandon who shot this b-roll for making this pig look lipstick. it's not a pig. come on, it's not that bad. he hates it 'cause all his computers are ugly. is your current computer even built by you? his personal rig was. mostly assembled by me and then it failed. why did it fail? because it leaked. why did it leak? we unplugged the pump. and then he built it again. yes. for the third time in a month. it is built by me though. i still think it looks great. i think it counts as extra built by me. if i paid someone to build it, then i did it again myself. he paid his paid friend to build it. and then did it again himself. if you wanna know someone who i'm their paid friend, how about this message from our sponsor? ridge. i mean, you guys know who they are by now, right? they've got wallets, they've got key cases, they've even got luggage, and they've got a big sale for their 11th anniversary that is happening right now. so check them out at the link down below for some massive savings. this is a four for me. i gave it a six and a half before. i'm gonna go with six. okay. 11. yeah, not at all biased. sure thing, geodude. this one. it is deserving and should have been number one to five. am i the only one who was very surprised to see what a spectacular job carl jacobs and his team did of glam-footaging this thing? it looks so good in their video. so he plays minecraft on a s*** box and then the climax is playing it on this godly piece of computing. art. if i had to pick i think that this is my favorite build that
we've ever done and it's nice because i didn't have to do any of it. we spent so much money on
this. i think the hundred thousand dollar price tag ended up being quite conservative. yeah it was
like 150 if you like account for the machining. it sounds really expensive compared to my rocks. i did
say this is my favorite ltt build ever. it's not very practical though. i'm gonna go with a
nine. i agree nine. eight. i don't like desk pcs. all right. oh it's the foldable pc. speaking
of piece of s*** builds. again i also love it. wow look at that paintwork. oh this is
a 3d print. yeah. so why is it that? it's crooked. because the stuff inside is pressing against the walls. so it's
deforming the shape. so either way you just did a bad job. i mean it wasn't gonna fit. i challenge you
to do a better job. what purpose did these serve luke? i don't remember. those ended up
being if i remember correctly a platform. so i could put i think power supply and storage or
something in there. our modding capabilities internally have really improved a lot. this whole
entire thing was also i think two days. i think you mean two days and two nights. yeah. you
and brandon were here twice in a row until i believe two to four in the morning shooting
this mess yeah i love it when luke does arts and crafts oh my god you made a stencil and it still
looked like that why did you make more than one stencil you know you can just reuse them god
this is insane to think that we did this to luke's credit it was not that easy to put together a
super small form factor machine back then the hardware choices were extremely limited and
there weren't nearly as many inspirational guides to follow along with the whole reason why i wanted to do this was to kind of show off
that graphics card actually because that was a sick card oh yeah i had to use pieces of
cardboard to stop it from shorting out so what the community is saying is they want our builds to be
either mondo deluxe or jank garbage with cardboard not garbage nothing in
between looks great there's no way that this ran anything other than thermal throttled
up the butt oh yeah but it functioned not only did multiple people get inspired by the
fallout build and build their own but multiple people were inspired by the amethyst build and
built their own right so defensive you're trying to trash on all my stuff but so far i think
i have more builds in here yeah he's 50 percent of our top builds right now let's see some
builds you've done i think i think that's all of mine though oh you've got other builds i
expect the pizza warming pc to make an appearance here the engineering excellence is fantastic
okay like three three eleven thermal throttles to helen runs hotter than an actual bomb if you
want your pc to be highly performant this is not it look at the hole it needed the hole it's
not even close to straight it looks like you spent time to make it crooked you've got some serious like emo band hair going on look at that look we're not rating hairstyles today he's
going through some things the noctua  box fan was my idea and i think that that actually
added a lot to the video i think it's still deployed today i think we have it still it's great
this ended up being such a greater than the sum of its parts build everything on this table
looks like and then the finished build it was kind of awesome i love the fans
on the ram i agree with jake actually those little ram fans add a lot and if you want even
more noctua in your life the noctua xltt screwdriver now available lttstore.com i can only
really give this a seven because it's not that imaginative but personally eight or nine four what you
just painted stuff beige and brown yeah i'd like a seven let's say really out of all the sleepers the
sony vaio you helped with this this is an alex bill his brainchild for sure what
was that for i believe it's for v modding this gpu of course it is alex is like hmm
computer that works how about 700 watts on a graphics card shout out this being just about the most
gorgeous gpu block that i have ever seen yeah it's pretty looks like a nightmare to assemble whoa yeah that
looks i guess it's that right there that's what i think of that why is there a desk there's a desk
because there was no room to put cooling oh in this chassis sweet computer i love that you utilized
the desk to cool it because there wasn't enough space in the thing oh yeah that's sick it
doesn't look super sleeper to me i still think this is a super cool bill seven and a half out of ten
i agree with lenny seven and a half whole numbers seven then seven yeah sweet build though
here it is hey the number of labor hours that went into building this aluminum
was it two days and two nights so many more than two days oh that's crazy that's weird it
was like five nights at freddy's this build took so long that i now have facial hair one of the
biggest challenges was getting this release mechanism to work correctly so it had a relay so you
could make it so the head blew up oh wow yeah kind of thing if we hadn't tried to do that it probably could have been done in
half the time what a cool build though really cool did it overheat no it's got an aio for cooling
and it's got ample it's a little bigger than the bomb yeah it's a little bigger that's a feature not
a bug i think the objective was that if you died in minecraft we would have some kind of api
something that would make it did it do that no eight my childhood minecraft heart is giving this like an eight
i really like this i think a nine sure can you stop stealing my scores what i was gonna say nine oh you're all eight i'm like oh i have a
different score from jake for a change oh god glorious this one is great look at your hair i think this is
better than the like emo band hair is this about my hair now your hair minus five i guess
six six come on really he's had so much worse i'm right here what is going on well we wanted to
repurpose a board that we didn't care about so we grabbed one that we had already used for sub ambient cooling
i did not think he was going to be able to pull this off this was so cool i went to go see this
like in person because i thought it was so cool the very best part about it is either that it pours
directly from the spout of the teapot onto the gpu or the fact that we filled it with actual
tea there was no movie magic isn't that amazing that looks like tea i don't know oh it's tea dude look
i brewed this tea yeah that's terrible this whole thing was fantastic this is an
eight for sure for me it's at least a nine for me yeah i love this a lot of creativity
into it both sides of the back panel hilarious using an actual teapot fantastic really stand out
their designs and everything that british flag just the every single part of this is sick it's
it's at least a nine for me this really okay a linus build and it's the tank piece not the
one i would have chosen yeah tell us about this case linus it's in the shape of a tank what what
did you do for this build i built it you put parts in a case yeah it's just okay but there's
no like customization there's nothing cool that you did it's very rgb there's no real expertise
correct no skill it was a little awkward no creativity well i wouldn't no design work it's very
creative i mean look at that though bang bang i mean the case is neat if you're like 11. you're
hating on our community not on me i didn't choose it we did a weird cases compilation video and then the community voted
how does that work for the one that they wanted yeah those fans don't do anything they are up
against a glass panel there are four show full show it's definitely better than the bomb
build i disagree those fans also do nothing yeah we didn't rate that one
oh we didn't rate that one i don't know if it's worth a rating this is okay this is a 10. yeah
yeah this is easily a 10. this was far and away the top voted one from the
community couldn't believe the level of detail. look at this b-roll. you can't even tell it's like miniature. this makes me feel bad about myself. don't watch any of my builds in this one in quick succession, please. look at that vending machine. most of the coolness was not done by us. this was all nerdforge all the way. they did an amazing job. it was one of those things where they said, "it's our gift to you, the machine." and i was like, "oh my god, i want someone to daily drive this thing." so we ended up auctioning it for charity at ltx.
raised a bunch of money for charity. so massive shout out nerdforge for that as well. i do
agree with the community vote here. 11. yeah. and not a luke 11, like a real one. we should do another build
with them. i think what we should do right now is talk about which builds we
think are missing from this list. where's your copper tube pc? that was not that
exciting. compared to the tank? oh my god. i had to learn how to... bend a copper pipe in a way that didn't look like s*** . i ended up getting the actual final method from bob and rod, i think. the big thing was finding a bender that actually had the same diameter as the outside of the tube, and then filling it with sand so it doesn't crush. well, it looked awesome at the end after all the sanding and polishing. he actually used this as his daily driver workstation here at work for like- two or three years. two or three years, yeah. until the ddc died. oh, okay. does that line this build? yay, what? i mean . f*** off. i built it. you put a kit together. good job. yeah, yeah. congratulations. everyone can play lego. yeah. audience, let us know. whose build is this? hey, look, it's me. wow, i wonder why i am there. oh, look, it's me again. wow. this case is like the stupidest case ever, but also i love it. it's so cool. it weighed a ton. it's a single, what was it? just cast aluminum thing. hand finished, hand polished. yeah. i think it was 5,000 us dollars or something like that. yeah. and they only made 100. part of the original idea of the compensator series was for them to be bad. yeah, well. oh, well. i mean, you hope it's not bad, but. was it bad? well, the sli was bad. yeah. and the case was stupid. it was completely immobile. i mean, the whole point is spending the most money you can on every single thing, like in the consumer, like off the shelf standard. i would have daily drove it if i had. space? i couldn't lift it. also, they gave us number 93. i think i asked for number 69. look at this. i could have blown out my rectum. what? seven gamers, one cpu. is this the og one? there it is, boys. hold on. when i started, you see this is eight years ago. i've been here for eight years. one of my first tasks was taking these water blocks apart and putting... the normal coolers back on. i lied on my job application and said that i had water cooled many
computers and said that straight to his face. and i didn't break a single one. they were... i don't know if i've ever told you that before. yes, you have. really? oh, yeah. i totally lied. why am i the one with the nickname "lie-nus"? yeah. i didn't lie about anything. both of us lied on our resumes. you two, on the other hand, the resume fraud duo. this brick of raw gpu-ness delighted me more than i could have
possibly expressed in the video. plugging in seven gpus all at once. i haven't done it before, i haven't done it since. it's so cool. that was like hard, never done before at the time. that was really cool. remember when linus used to do cool things? yeah, see, he actually built a computer for once. i do cool stuff. yeah, i mean, sure. this was one of my favorite collabs. this was really cool. yeah! shank is so cool. and this build is amazing. i missed it. i wasn't able to be here for this. i was so upset. i'm pretty sure he's sick. i mean, he's looked like that in one of the videos we were watching earlier. yeah, you wanna rate my hair again? oh my god, the monitor! that is so cool. i forgot about the monitor. this is a 10. i really like that it's like the whole thing. it's glorious. isn't that monitor like stupid expensive? it's an alienware thing, right? it's stupid and stupid expensive. oh yes, this thing is awesome. this looks like a normal computer. yup, everything's fine. it looks way better than the amethyst machine 'cause it's not full of stupid rocks. disagree, it looks boring. i'm bored. oh yeah? are you bored now, son? no. oh, the wig, oh yes. there we go. rate my hair. that's an improvement. it's better, yeah, for sure. and remember, this is going through the computer. like there's some leakage. this is just dumb. what, this is the point you realized that? i love that build. it cooled really well. it was super effective. it's here, here it is, called it. this is probably the best thing i've ever done. you look just. like you ate everything. i did. i think i was like, this video is horrible. i'll try to make it more interesting by asking the panago guy how to heat pizza with a computer. you didn't understand the damn video. it wasn't to heat the computer. it was to keep it from cooling down. so i arrive on set and there's a cold pizza sitting there. and i'm like, why is the pizza cold? and he's like, so we can warm it up with the computer. like, oh my god, no. we're supposed to have a pizza on the computer warming pan and a
control pizza that's just cooling down. and we're supposed to track the temperature decline over time. things were very well planned seven years ago. i heard of this crazy thing called an insulated bag. mark me. we are redoing the pizza warming pc. we're doing it this year. you know, you might actually be able to heat up a cold piece of
pizza now just because of how much power computers drop. this is actually true. like two 4090s and like a 13900- sorry, 14900k? pizza warming pc
may be viable now. oh, wow. i think this is recency bias. this build sucks. it's like
a four. it's so stupid. i love elijah, but like- i definitely wouldn't want it, but it's a
fun video. this computer was awful. none of the screens worked. they worked? no, i know they worked after elijah spent like a week
getting them to work. yeah. what, not two nights? what do you mean? hey, i like this one. the hack, the hack pro. speaking of those- i totally forgot about this, but this is cool. that were a nightmare to get going. oh f*** how many videos are there? it's finally done. such a cool chassis, like blackout cheese grater. and this system ended up being wicked fast. it looks very cool. look at this system though. yeah, like this was sick. it has a phase change cooling system in the basement. yeah. we still had this case. like, actually, someone offered to buy
it yesterday. yeah, we still had it. like, we had it for the longest time. should i sell it for $400? i feel like it's worth more than
$400. i think it's worth a lot more than $400, but it's been taking up space
for... i think you should just give it to them. ...eight years. i actually liked the more ugly sleepers better, personally. -
yeah. this one was awesome. 'cause they're actually sleepers. this one was so cool. yeah, see, like, that's sick. and, like, you went overboard on the devices in the front, but that
doesn't make it look too clean. it makes it look like it was a prop in a video game. yeah, which is sweet. this machine is spectacular. the monitor's super cool. go look at the final shot of the mineral oil one that we did back in the house. look, it's baby lou. it's baby u2. like, that's so cool! you're a dork. that's so cool! i think you have a fetish, though. that is so cool. what, are we gonna do another one? how is that not cool? pretty bubbles. that was sick. you used that mineral oil computer for years. i did. how are you gonna throw at me for that, huh? even while it was leaking. huh? i did, i loved it. yeah, 'cause it was sick. i'm just saying. you have a fetish. maybe so do you, okay? we've built a lot
of freaking computers. yeah. like that bit in the intro where i'm like, i
forgot some of them. i was like, yeah, i mean, you know. i forgot the chiller.
- i legitimately forgot. i forgot that chiller tower, a hundred percent. -
hundreds of this stuff. speaking of chiller tower. oh my god. oh yeah. oh
my god. it's like evaporation, man. holy s***. this thing still doesn't have a
million views. so yeah. it's a bong. this is it. and it almost killed the computer. yeah. and linus was very upset. basically there's falling water in these tubes and there's air being pushed into it and up it. the evaporation of the water as it falls causes the water to be chilled below the ambient temperature. then it pools in the bottom, gets pumped up to the cpu, and then goes back up to the top to fall down. so you can actually achieve subambient cooling without phase change cooling, but it is phase change cooling. you just don't need a compressor. yeah, almost no power draw. yeah. yeah, it's super cool. like they use it for data centers and stuff. oh god. my first gaming pc, there it is, boys. i wish i remembered all the parts of mine 'cause i would have just done this as like a fun project at home. i didn't have a gpu. i used onboard graphics 'cause i thought it's geforce. it must be good. there was a lot of really misleading stuff back then. well, it's still misleading. remember sli ram? that's the thing. like there's a reason that i advocate so strongly for. numbering and naming schemes that make sense because i fell for it when i didn't know better. yeah. wait, you're telling me the 4090 in my laptop isn't the same as the 4090 in my desktop? yeah. oh, i forgot about this one though. this build is amazing. it helps that i thought the og xbox console itself looked super cool. getting all that stuff in there, not easy. it was a thing. some people were pretty upset at us for stripping it. oh my god, this card covered in masking tape. why is it taped like that? is it from metal shards? yeah. yeah. oh my, right, 'cause he sawed off the connector. hey, look at all the metal that was in the graphics card. what was that? i have a bit of a thing for hot rodding stuff through the side of a case. apparently i get credit for this one 'cause this is me. but look at the side of this computer. that's sweet. that's cool. passive cooling baby. yeah, that's wicked. so here's another all radiator pc. so that's what the water looked like. i think that face encapsulates how i feel about this computer. sus. those are usually filled with oil, right? yeah. so like- we've cleaned it out. oh yeah, it didn't matter though. oh yeah. yeah. 100%. it worked great though. this thing cooled like a hot dam. she's a 10, boys. she's a 10. the side panel. if only you could actually order that from aliexpress. wait, did he etch it on the wrong side? yeah. oh, that's great. oh my god. the colton dancing is the best part. no, the best part is this segue to our sponsor. delete me. ever feel like your personal info is on a global sharing spree without your say? you're probably right, but there's no need to fear because delete
me is here delete me as the ultimate defender against those countless online profiles that are spilling your secrets you know the kind that scammers use to shower you with robocalls
and spam emails which does sound like a really terrible shower if you think about
it and let's not even talk about the nightmare of fraud or identity
theft other than to say that you are at risk of those things with your
info out there for the taking so now that we're done with that part wiping all that data by yourself sounds borderline impossible,
doesn't it? well, not with delete me their nifty software and expert squad can
sweep it away in minutes saving you hours on average 2,000 pieces of data are wiped from the web in a customer's first
two years of using delete me talk about a cleanup crew so head over to the link below and use code ltt for a sweet 20% off if you guys enjoyed this video, why not check out the time
we reacted to our worst videos was there any overlap here? yes, pizza heater