- when our friends at asus reached out and wanted to sponsor a
video on a mystery laptop, i figured let's do this old school. i'm not gonna yell at the camera. i'm not gonna jump up and down. i may end up on the table at some point, but if it's so, it's gonna be very organic and authentic to the story. i'm gonna go in completely
blind to see what the deal is and show you my reviewing chops to see if i know what i'm talking about. all right, asus, show me
your incredible within. that's such a bad slogan (laughs). "incredible within." - the power within. - the power within. - my first impression, i think they're going
for like eco-friendly. look, even, like, the tape
that holds it together is like paper tape. there's no plastic or anything that i've seen whatsoever so far. so it is a zenbook, and we have accessories. so we have a laptop sleeve. we have the box for the laptop itself. - [ken] why are you talking so low? - i just wanna be calm and reasonable. - [ken] incredible comes from within, but your voice certainly
doesn't sound like it. - okay, don't get me upset, ken. oh. (laughs) what kind of laptop do you have? you'll never guess. the zenbook s 13. oh, how convenient. all the specs i need. i'm not gonna look at that 'cause that's cheating. this bag is made from plant
fibers and is 100% recyclable. oh, i'm sorry, i'm not gonna yell. i'm not gonna yell. it's like a matte finish. this is gonna be a really
bad way of describing it. almost like a stone kind of texture to it, but you've got these,
like, sort of silver lines that kind of split it all up. that is so nice. also, this is, like, stupid thin. like, i don't know what
it actually weighs, but it is so small. and we've got ports. we've got two, i assume,
thunderbolt ports. we've got a full-size hdmi. and we've got even a usb-a
and the headphone jack. let's see what this laptop is all about, 'cause i am absolutely loving
that material on the outside. - [alex] it's called
plasma ceramic aluminum. - plasma ceramic aluminum? - [alex] it's a
unique manufacturing process. they use only water and electricity, no chemicals at all.
- oh, neat. there's a huge amount of emissions and chemicals and stuff that go into creating these devices, so if there's ways to make
really unique looking finishes and without having to use anything more than water and electricity,
i'm out here for it. that looks legitimately really cool. i've been helpfully gifted
a pair of digital calipers. it is just over 10 millimeters, so that is an incredibly thin device. let's see what this weighs. slightly above one kilogram. - [ken] i can't hear you. - i'm not always like this, ken! sometimes i can have a
reasonable and calm conversation about technology that i'm
really passionate about. - [joanna] well, now you've done it. you've yelled in the video. - actually, yeah, i did.
- poop. - so a bunch of stuff i'm seeing here. first of all, i like this color scheme. so we've got that sort of two tone. it's kinda like the gray with the darker gray for the keyboard. i like that. that track pad is absolutely massive for what i assume is a 13-ish display. so it's actually not like a completely laminated piece of glass. so the screen itself is
actually slightly inset, so if you look really closely here you can see there's actually
a little bit of a bezel. i actually like that. a lot of laptops these days have a single sheet of glass here, which looks nice, but the problem is that
you get kinda, like, grime and whatnot on the keyboard, you'll oftentimes have, like, keyboard, like, imprints on your display. we also have a bunch of stuff up top here. so i see a webcam. actually, no, there's
two little cameras there, and it looks like maybe, like,
an ir light or something. so i assume that's for windows hello, and two microphones. no, three microphones? yeah, so there's a bunch of stuff going on on the top of the display. first impressions are solid. also it's definitely
got the ergolift hinge. so you can see, when it's
flat, it's quite thin, but when i actually go to open it up, it really kicks it up to the point where you've got significant airflow that's gonna be going on on
the bottom of this laptop. oh, okay, that's oled. that is an oled. yeah, i think it's an oled. pretty sure it's an oled. okay, is it a touchscreen? negative, ghost rider. okay, look, everyone knows
there's really one way to find out if it's a touchscreen, and it's to touch it. the smart move would be to evaluate this and then open it up at the end in case i had ran into problems. i'm instead going to open it up right now. for a laptop that's
putting a lot of emphasis on the eco sustainability angle of, you know, using lots of
recycled materials and whatnot, if you really wanna be eco-friendly, you should make it upgradable, so it's not e-waste when something breaks. all right, let's see what's
inside the s 13, battery. wow, that's a battery
with a laptop attached. okay, i got it. so this is a 63-watt-hour battery, which is very reasonable, especially for a 13-inch laptop. and you can see that they did a lot of engineering to fit this in. so if you're looking at it just from first impressions, this is the motherboard. so you've got yourself dual fans and a couple of heat
pipes on the intel cpu. the ram is soldered down, which is unfortunate, but is pretty much par for the course for any of these ultra thin laptops over the last couple of years. but there's actually a
lot of stuff going on with the cooling solution. so they've got themselves two heat pipes. so one goes here, one goes here, and you've got yourself a little heat sink and these various tiny fans. but based on the design, especially how many blades they have, these are probably gonna
move a fair bit of air. and if you look at the other
side of the laptop here, you see that this is where
they're gonna be intaking, and i assume they're just
gonna exhaust out the top here. so i bet you that while
this won't be, you know, a powerful gaming or editing laptop, even though it's so thin, especially because the ergolift hinge is gonna give this a little
bit of extra airflow, i'm gonna take a guess
that the performance is gonna be pretty solid. compared to a lot of very
thin and light laptops, which are basically just
not even worth opening, because there's nothing you could ever do, it does look like you
could at the very least upgrade an ssd, and quite easily upgrade
or swap out your battery and whatnot down the line. just would've been nice to
have some upgradable ram too to give you a little extra performance. all right, we've got the
s 13 put back together. let's evaluate. the first thing i do with every device that i get my hands on, task manager time. okay, so this is a core i7-1355u. so that is two performance cores
and eight efficiency cores. so as a u-series processor, this is not made for,
like, super heavy work, but you've got the really
fast single threads of those two performance cores, which on this boost to five gigahertz-ish, if i'm right. and also you've got the efficiency cores, which is what you're
gonna be using the vast majority of the time, but you, as the user, this
is completely seamless. it's got 32 gigs at 5,200
megahertz ram, very fast, and we've got ourselves a
one-terabyte samsung ssd. these are all very good specs. and also, of course, the iris xe graphics. so it is a 2880 by'00 display. that's nice, and, in fact, it also has adaptive color. so i'm assuming that one of
these sensors up top here is an ambient light sensor, which is nice. typically the way it works with oleds is that they have some pros and cons. so the pros are that they
have excellent color accuracy, pretty much perfect contrast, and certainly with this,
it's very high resolution, but the downsides often are that you don't have a
massive amount of brightness. 550 nits, that's actually plenty bright. all of my thoughts so far are based around the idea that this is a fairly
premium priced laptop. what does this actually cost? 'cause that's gonna determine a lot. i'm gonna guess $1,300. so this is the zenbook s 13 oled. oh, which version is this? does it say? what have we got here? the ux5304v. 1399! okay, but let's actually see though, what do you get for that 1399? 'cause that's gonna be
a big question here. i have been blocked. i got blocked from the asus site. i'm too suspicious. what did i do that was suspicious? [music] don't be suspicious [music] [music] don't be suspicious [music] [music] don't be suspicious [music]
[music] don't be suspicious [music] [music] don't be suspicious [music]
[music] don't be suspicious [music] - [narrator] is that austin evans? - [jean-ralphio] go! - there are definitely some
nice features that i'm noticing. so the touchpad is really
quite nice. it's large. it also has a really nice click, which it doesn't... it's still, like, the diving board, so it clicks a lot more on
the bottom than the top. but there's a really
nice sort of travel to it and you hear the click. (touchpad clicking) yeah, so i will say initial impressions are quite nice on the keyboard. it's not loud, which i think for a device like this, i would prefer it to be
a little quiet anyway. considering how thin the device is, there's a surprising amount of key travel. like, usually i expect a super thin and light device like this to
have a pretty shallow click. but i mean that's... i don't know, i'm not no ltt lab, but i mean, that's a pretty decent amount of key travel there. let's press the asus button. so we've got battery care mode, which limits the battery to 80%. that's great, especially if you're someone who spends a lot of time
with your laptop plugged in or plugged into, like, a
dock or whatever the case is. your battery staying a hundred percent for long periods of time
is not a good thing. so the fact that you can
limit to 80% is great. we've got fan profiles, which is whisper,
standard, and performance. "dynamically maximizes cooling performance for demanding tasks." okay, but it does not work when you are running on the battery, which, fair enough. ai noise canceling microphone. ah-ha! we finally found
the ai part of the video. so this does have ai noise cancellation. well, you know i gotta try that, right? pure first impression. i'm
gonna hit the record button we'll see what it sounds like. so obviously right now you'll
listen to the microphone on the camera, but if i hit the big red button, now you are hearing me
through the microphones on the s 13. so this is using the ai
omnidirectional mode. although while i'm recording i'm gonna try change it to
the unidirectional mode. i don't know if that's
made any difference, but this is what it sounds like
in the unidirectional mode. the unidirectional mode
sounds a lot better. so essentially the difference
is that the ai processing, it will try to, like, listen
to everything around the room, or it will focus more on you. i would definitely
recommend turning that on. okay, we have a bunch of sound modes. so we have dynamic for atmos, game, movie, music. let's do dynamic. (upbeat music) wait, that's actually not bad. i mean, it's not super rich, but it's a thin small laptop. but, like, the highs are
actually really quite clear. i'll say, speakers are
actually pretty decent. okay, so this is using
the asus aisense camera. i'm gonna list you the things
that i have as options here. lighting optimization,
background blurring, gaze correction to
automatically detect your eyes and make it look like you're
staring at the display. motion tracking and appearance filter to smooth out your skin. all right, so this is an
example of what the webcam on the s 13 looks like. for a webcam on a laptop, not a lot to complain about. so when you look at a laptop like this, i think it's clear to me that asus have gone for a couple of main focuses. so the eco-friendly side
is certainly a big one. the fact that it is fairly repairable, especially considering
how thin and light it is. you got yourself a very solid keyboard, excellent track pad, good
performance, a huge battery, and, importantly, you've got
some great port selection on a device which is incredibly
thin and really quite light. if you want a device that seems like it will
really last long term and has an incredibly nice finish that really does stand
out, i've gotta say, i am pleasantly surprised
by the zenbook s 13. and if you'd like to
know any more about it, definitely be sure to go check it out. link in the description. huge thank you to asus
for sponsoring this video. if you'll excuse me, i'm gonna go back to yelling now. i wanna go jump on the table, flop like a fish. [music] flop on the deck and flop like a fish [music] [music] spongebob [music] - and scream about expensive mystery tech, 'cause that's where i'm most comfortable. subscribe for austin's quiet tips. wait, no, no, no, no, no. no one wants that. no one wants that. (upbeat music)