- [austin] with a $20,000 budget, xbox game pass reached out and wanted to sponsor a gaming pc build for the one and only karl-anthony towns, professional basketball
player extraordinaire, to truly build the xbox
game pass signature rig. with only three weeks to put
together this signature rig, the time crunch is real. so thankfully we have help from the one and only ijustine, who is helping guide us through, by not only talking with karl-anthony and getting his ideas for what he wants in his signature rig, but ultimately in putting
together the entire package that hopefully will end up
working by the end of this video. now to do this, we have the one and only wesley knapp, who of course has built many crazy things for us in the past, but this, this is something on a
completely new level. so wes, we're starting it with the
thermaltake core p90, right? - yup. and this is going to be
essentially the center core, just like the name, but this is where all of our
pc components are gonna go. and then everything that we're doing to sort of snazz it up
is gonna go around it. - yeah. - as far as the design goes, we are really inspired by the fact that obviously basketball is
a huge part of his life and thinking actually about
a recent trip to new york before, you know, the world ended, i remember the atlas statue and how it was really just
this cool metal sphere. and i was thinking, well, if we took that and we shaped it more like
the lines of a basketball, having something like that, and if it was able to rotate even cooler, but just having something
like that around the entire pc would make it really a center
piece as opposed to just a pc living on someone's desk. - so for the actual pc itself, we've got to go high-end, right? we've got the custom design. so to start out with, we have amd's ryzen 9 3950x. as of recording this, that's about the most powerful
gaming cpu we can use. 16 cores, zen 2, all that kind of stuff. gigabyte were also incredibly kind in hooking us up with some
of the other components. and i say incredibly kind, because not only are they helping
out with the actual parts, but importantly they
helped me get it on time. because otherwise-- - [ken] we would have to buy it, which you can't buy it. - yeah, we would actually be
using old-school components like a 2080 or something. - [ken] or we would have
spent $10,000 on ebay. (austin laughs) - true. so shout out to gigabyte
for the hookup here 'cause this is going to
make a huge difference to the actual pc. you ready? (angelic singing) oh, okay! that is a big... oh! oh! - [ken] holy jesus christ, okay. looking at this card in person, it is enormous. i'm happy that we're building
this in an open chassis because i think this might
be a pretty hard card to fit even in some normal pc cases. (trap music) - all right. so the test fit is complete. so we have our rtx 3090, our sweet orange extension cables, which of course will be slightly
tidier in the final build, as well as we have our ryzen 9 just sort of behind a stock
cooler just for right now while we're making sure
that everything works. wes, would you like to do the honors? go for it. yeah! oh baby! it's funny. this case is so huge it makes the 3090 look
pretty reasonably sized. - yeah, i was gonna say, if you put that in
literally any other case, that would just be stupidly big. - so now comes the real
test of cable managing, cooling all of this with the custom loop, and getting the actual sphere
and the rotating bits to work. - [wes] yeah, now comes the easy part. - yeah. - [wes] we got the hard parts done. - you say that but this is
definitely the easy part. everything else is gonna be so much more, all the custom stuff. - i was being sarcastic. - oh. - there's sarcasm in there, shh. - all right. (upbeat music) - all right. so we've actually made some
really good progress here. we have the whole base made. this is aluminum t slot, which even though it's aluminum, it's very strong, very sturdy. (drilling noise) all right. so we have everything all wired up. i call this thing the drawer, just because it looks like a drawer. and we also have the motor in the back, all rigged up to the power supply. so when this turns on, it should activate the motor as well. let's see if it works. (humming noise) yo. okay. cool. look at that. it's spinning. - so i've been tasked
with doing water cooling for another big austin evans build. and i'm pretty excited because
this is my redemption arc, where i get to actually
tackle hardline cooling because last time people in the comments didn't take to kindly to my
first ever water cooling attempt when i used soft line tubing. and i think the reason why
people get so up in arms over soft line tubing is because there's not a lot of options when it comes to shaping the tubes the way that you want. with hardline tubing, while it does require a lot of work to get shape in the tube, it does tend to look a lot better. it's a lot more clean. and i do want it to look better because this is a pretty
high profile build for a pretty high profile person. so hardline tubing it is. (intense music) - [austin] so how's it going? - so we have chased the
root of our problems once again to the radiator. so when we actually went
to pressure test this, we found that it was losing air. and we traced every
single part of our line, which to be fair, some of it is pretty loose, but nothing too egregious. - [austin] is it actually
holding pressure now? - yes. so these luckily screw in with the old thermaltake ones. these are just plastic stoppers that don't really do much at all. - [austin] so basically we
spent two hours chasing a leak that was actually just a
loose cap on the radiator. - yes. i'm not discounting the
fact that it could have been some of our leads as well, but after tightening and
tightening and tightening, at some point something wasn't right. - [austin] what, on a scale of one to 10, is your frustration level right now? - um, very. - [austin] that's not a number. - it is to me. - [austin] all right. with our loop fully assembled, we have not lost pressure. - jesus. oh my god. why is everything in our lives just not working as a intended. (austin laughs) - [austin] dude, this
coolant was a very good call. - all right, well, this is what all of our work was worth. all right, some bubbles. we'll have to obviously
run this a little bit as to get the bubbles out of the system, but this is a great start. - [austin] okay. here goes nothing. whoa!
- oh, there it is, it's running through. - [austin] oh my god, dude! that's so cool! - it is, right? - [austin] oh, it looks so good! that legit looks like
we're using orange tubing. - it does, it does. - [austin] it doesn't look like
we're using cooling inside. - i like it. i'll just say that, while i wasn't expecting
things to go wrong, i wasn't expecting things
to go so right either. but seeing the liquid flow
through our whole entire loop for the first time, without any leaks mind you, i'd say job well done. hopefully. - hello and welcome to tuesday where we have the pc up and running. so the only thing we're waiting
on right now is we need to, well besides all the cable
management and the rgb, we just need to get the actual shell, the exoskeleton on. and that should be
arriving any minute now. oh my god. - something arrived. fresh from the, from fabrication. - dude, that is so cool. we got to unwrap that. - yeah. - after everything we've been through, the end result at seeing the exoskeleton, is so rewarding. i hadn't seen the exoskeleton at all while it was being fabricated, right. i've seen a couple of progress photos, but until you see it in person, is it actually the right size? is it the right shape? does it look nice? was the finish correct? all of this kind of stuff. if it showed up and one side
of it was slightly bent, that could have been a complete disaster. but the fact is we have it, it is here, it is ready to go on the pc. what could possibly go wrong? oh, that looks pretty good. oh, hold on. - so we're a little... yep. so we're tight over here. start going down. - woo!
- woo! oh my god. - and i'm in. - all right, maybe... the pegs there. - oh my god. it worked. (austin laughs) that was way too close. this actually comes out. this actually sticks outside of it. - we're gonna have to
rotate that real slow. - that could have been so... dude, that's not gonna work. wait. - no, we'll double check it. i think we'll be okay. i think we'll be okay. ready? - yup. - nice little rotate. - oh my god. nope.
- nope. - definitely not. that is a hard no. - [wes] all right. can we make that a diagonal? do we have 45 degrees? - [ken] nope. - we installed the drain, right? - [ken] nope. (ken laughs) - well, look. there are a couple of things that could go wrong in this process. one, we compromise the design that
wes worked so hard in doing, or we redo our water tubing. the problem with us
redoing the water tubing is that it took us so long to do as well. - it doesn't need to rotate. i think it's fine. - i'm gonna plug it in
just to see what happens. - no, no, no, no, no, no. let's just... this is the way it will live. - so i know that if i go
home right now and just say, "ah, screw it, it's just not spinning", i am going to lie awake all night thinking about how i
could have done something to make it spin. so another couple of cups of coffee and i'll see you all in the morning. (austin groans) - okay. so it is two hours until
it's being picked up and we have successfully finished it. if the exoskeleton works. - yup, so we have our new risers all built out of premium oak. premium oak. (austin giggling) and we have these little shims here, which will go underneath to
kinda hold either side of it and just give us a little extra support when we're up in the air. - if this doesn't work, i give up. - well, we don't really have a choice. we have to give up. - nope, i give up. okay. - so if you wanna make sure that the foot goes in the cup over there, ken. - yeah. - so we're just gonna take that, one goes here. i got the other one over here. the old slow roll. - yeah, that's it. (austin laughs) yeah, we're gonna manually real quick. yeah, that's... oh, that tolerance. - all right, ready? - let's do it. (humming noise) - oh, it's so close. oh! - we're good. we're good, we're good. it is just barely. (austin laughing) this is literally an anxiety machine. this pc looks awesome. it's nothing like i've ever seen before. it's actually one of the
biggest pc structures i have ever seen in my life. the spinning takes it into
something that actually has life, it has character. this is just a really cool pc. if i could make everyone's
pcs rotate, i would. - so there've been a lot of late nights so far on this build. a lot of 14 hour days. when we hit the button and
that cage actually spun, not just started spinning, but when it did its full rotation, that was just like a
knot that was in my chest for about a month that just... - so. - all right. it's precision. - let's box this thing up and hope that it survives. - well, if it gets bent by even
an eighth of an inch we're. - oh my god. - i swear to god just (indistinct). - we're ready. - i'm so nervous right now. i know that justine has had a conversation with karl-anthony and hyped up the build way more than it should. i'm just completely absorbed
by the idea of does he like it? did it work? also, karl-anthony's a pretty cool dude. so it's cool to be able to meet him, but mostly worried about
if he likes the pc. - check it out. - what the hell! (karl-anthony laughs) that is a full blown
contraption right there. (austin laughs) and what, it's the world
that spinning right here? - [justine] no, it's a basketball. - oh, it's a basketball? oh, that's actually crazier! that's really art though. that's legit art. bro, what is going on here? it's just... austin for sure did a
little something, something. (austin laughs) - how's it going, man? - how are you doing? - if you knew the amount of blood, sweat, and tears that went into this thing and how many times it almost broke or just didn't flat out work. the fact that it is there and hopefully working, i'm so, so happy. - i can imagine. i can imagine. seeing a pc built it's like... everything works, one day you go to sleep, you wake up and the fan doesn't work or, you know, something crazy happens. - i don't know if we're ever gonna build any more of these
signature rigs ever again. but if we were, there's certainly a lot
of things to think about and a lot of things to learn
from this kat pc build. and i think a lot of it
just comes down to planning. and i'm very excited for the next time, if there is a next time. i hope there's a next time. is there a next time? - [austin] we'll have to
wait and see, won't we. - we'll have to wait and
see won't we he says. austin evans, ladies and gentlemen. (upbeat music)