- i'm ready to crack
the deals on wish.com. what could possibly go wrong? tm slogan.
(text snaps) famous last words. hidden anti-theft fbi travel phone key. you know what? it's an armpit bag. i don't know what more i could ask for out of an armpit bag for $6. will work 4 v-bucks. - [jared] yo. - i'm not buying that shirt.
- what? - corona bluetooth bottle speaker. it's just a corona that's
a wireless speaker. is this a good idea? - [jared] why wouldn't it be? that means you can discretely hide your speaker at the beach and only look like you're
enjoying a nice beer instead. (group laughing) - added to cart. is this laser vision? what
is going on with this image? multi strength reading glasses with led. dude, this girl looks like she's, like, about to blast a hole in her book. i gotta get this. ooh, the anti spy signal bug rf detector. i need to detect some rf. what if someone's trying to spy on me? it is only $3. all right, i'm finding
some good stuff here. is there who wants a scent slammer. - [jared] it's what? - [austin] it's a ozone air purifier. - [jared] wait, isn't
ozone, like, really toxic? - i don't know. maybe it's taking ozone out of your air. - [jared] yeah, i typed in, "is ozone toxic?"
(keyboard tapping) and the first thing that comes up is, "ozone is a toxic gas." - sign me up. add to cart. wish is delightful today. i feel like a lot of times, when we're shooting wishtery tech, we all sit here for, like,
an hour trying to find stuff and like, almost everything is garbage, but there's so many great things. fishing magnet, 400-pound neodymium magnet with a 400-pound weight. that's a lot. and i'm not sure how i would test this. but for 20 bucks, sure. i'll go magnet fishing. mini wireless bluetooth headset. "very small. sound quality
is super good." (laughs) so this is a blingy squirtle for $2. look, i need a squirtle squad necklace. i'm adding that to my cart instantly. this is a gucci watch, but it's apparently original used 90% new. - [joanna] what does
that even mean? (laughs) - or-
- not only is it 90% new, there's also 95% new, and
then (chuckles) 99% new. - [austin] i want 99% new. there's a wii somatosensory
game console double will family with sports entertainment... what? is this an actual wii? - [jared] i think there's
only one way to find out. - yeah. add to cart. with a wide selection of items. i think there's only one thing left to do, which is to press the order button, wait one to two months for
all these items to show up, and i'll be right back
after word from our sponsor. youtube adsense, or maybe
a real sponsor, who knows? (air whooshing)
all right. (box thuds)
that was not what i was ready for. welcome back my friends to wishtery tech. it has been an especially long time. i think it was almost two months since we ordered this stuff
that it actually showed up. but we've got a fun menagerie of- - [ken] menagerie? those are choice words
- and- for a kid that didn't go to high school. - yeah.
(bell dinging) - all right, so the
first item is... (laughs) - [ken] no, no. - [austin] this is a bottle-shaped,
true wireless speaker. "this item is intended for
people of legal drinking age." - why? it's a speaker?
- what? (laughs) - so you can actually-
- it- - put your cap on and
you've got your, (chuckles) you know, your usb on
the back of your beer. also, can i just say this
is not the right color? like this is like- - [jared] looks like it's full of sewage. (group laughing) - jared, would you be
so kind as to remind me how much this particular item was? - [jared] well, this is only 29 bucks. a couple dollars more than a real corona. - [ken] have you ever bought beer before? - i'm not old enough yet, ken. i'm trying to blend in.
(ken laughs) - not only did they
have the exposed screws, it has the cheapest little, like, switch. when i turn it on, it does... - [corona bottle] the bluetooth
device is ready to pair. (bottle thuds)
- wow. (jared laughs) - i probably shouldn't play
this. i'm gonna play it anyway. (playful music) no one's buying this
(cap pops) to actually buy a good speaker. you're buying it 'cause it's
a funny-looking beer bottle that makes okay bluetooth noises. (air whooshing)
(plastic rustling) next up we've got... what is this? oh wait.
- oh. - [jared] this is the hidden
anti-theft fbi travel phone key underarm multi pockets
with adjustable strap messenger bags armpit bag. - no, this is meant to go-
- you're suppose to put it under your shirt. oh, he's squanching. - ta-da! - [matt] you look like you have wings trying to pop out of your back. - [matt] oh! - my pixel 7 was where you would least expect it. - [jared] well, you were
supposed to put it under your- - [ken] it's on the side. - [jared] yeah. - [ken] your arm can go over to disguise. - [matt] can you do a little like- - oh!
- oh my god! (laughs) - how much was this
particular fbi bag again? - [jared] well, it was $5.70, and it looks like you got that worth. (laptop thuds) - how dare you make fun of my armpit. - [matt] the face is uncanny. - you're right.
(ken laughs) (box clacks)
throw-n-go. ozone odor eliminator. are you trying to tell me something? - yes.
- wow. - so it contains an ozone generator to eliminate offending odors. - [matt] this is like a big version of what we looked at on this is. remember we had the little necklace one?
- oh, the air purifier. - yeah.
- yeah. - i will say this feels very cheap. like, just the most hollow,
flimsy plastic ever. this particular item may need two to three hours to
charge before it works. stay tuned to see if we
die from ozone poisoning. oh boy. (air whooshing)
(plastic rustling) so these appear to be standard ordinary glasses. however, these have a secret. wow. oh, they're reading glasses. is it on?
- oh. - ooh. one of them is-
- whoa, whoa. what is this? - i can finally see you now. this is how close i have to be to see you. wow, these are terrible. so these are supposed to be
like, led glasses, right? - [jared] well, then, let's test them out. - they're so dimmed that even in a completely
pitched black environment, you can hardly see it. there's no way this is
gonna help you read. jared, how much were these? - these were $1.90. (air whooshing) - behold my friends, i had
joined the squirtle squad. i'm gonna say this has some weight to it, and i think i'm gonna wear
it for the rest of the video. - [jared] well, do you wanna
know the best part of it? it's only a buck and 90 cents again. (hands clapping) (air whooshing)
- that looks heavy. (box thuds) that is heavy. oh no, i forgot about this. it's the uliber magnet. "may puch your fingers when attracting on any metallic object. keep it away from children of all ages and pacemakers." (laughs) children of all ages, ouch. so i'm sure you've all seen
the magnet fishing videos on, like, tiktok, and reels, and whatnot. where people will basically just take a big-ass magnet like this, cast it in an area where
people lose a lot of stuff, and they'll pull up like iphones, bikes. - [matt] if i've learned anything, it's that rivers are mostly guns. (group laughing) - you got yourself a hook
with some very sharp prongs that are protected. some gloves. - [ken] this is like a
break-in kit. (laughs) - don't try this at home and
don't demonetize this video. - [ken] no. (computer thuds) - thank you, jared. (magnet clangs) - oh geez.
(ken laughs) - okay.
- i have the power! (group laughing) - [jared] oh, can you get it off? (metal clangs) - oh!
- oh, jesus christ. (group laughing) - [ken] okay. - i need one more big metal thing. i'll be right back.
- like... oh god. - i caught a trashcan. (laughs) (trashcan thuds) how much was this? - this was 19 bucks. - this is totally worth $19! you can magnetize, and fish, and find cool things in rivers, or in your office, or pick up a computer
(computer clangs) - [matt] that's gonna
fall. that's gonna fall. that's gonna fall.
- oh, please- that's gonna fall.
- don't break that. - that-
- it's totally fine. - [ken] the top part is gonna- (explosion booms)
(air whooshing) (plastic rustling)
- this is electronic pets interactive bird toys. - [ken] is it a furby?
(dolphin chirping) - [ken] let's go! - we just had an exorcist
for the last one. what in the off brand-ass furby is this? - oh god.
- it's actually- wait. no, it's cuter. - okay, so what does it actually do? - [furby] okay, so what
does it actually do? - [matt] did he just repeat you? - are you repeating me? - [furby] are you repeating me? (group screaming) - hey guys, this is austin. - [furby] hey guys, this is austin. (arms thudding)
(group laughing) - roboraptor attack. - [furby] roboraptor attack. - [matt] he's turning
roboraptor against us. - roboraptor don't you
do it. don't you do it. - [furby] roboraptor
do it. don't you do it. - he said do it.
- no! stop, roboraptor! ah! - yeah, he won this series.
- no. don't you do that. - yes!
(group laughing) [furby] yes! - can we move on to the next item? - [furby] can we move on to the next item? - okay, so is this
really just one earphone? it is? - [ken] wow. it's the
uber driver special, dude. - wait, this is the whole thing. - [ken] wait, that's kinda cool. - there's no stem, there's nothing. but it has a dock. so when you put it on here,
then you've got your usb. how does it look? does it look like i'm wearing-
- not bad. - nothing at all? - [ken] it's like someone put
a jelly belly in your ear. - all right, let's listen to some music and i'll tell you exactly
how beautiful this sounds. doesn't sound good, but also
i don't necessarily think i care too much about the audio quality of a single headset. what i actually care about
more is the recording quality or the microphone quality
built into the headset. so this is what the recording sounds like from my blo8. yeah, that's peaky. so it doesn't sound good to listen or to be listened to with. jared, how much is this
beautiful piece of wishtery tech? - [jared] yet again, $1.90. - i mean, i don't know
if you could do better for less than $2. (air whooshing)
(plastic rustling) okay, that's a very soft item in a very fancy-looking box. inside we have a gucci watch with a nice little fancy pillow. - oh, actually-
- well, you know what? it actually does say "gucci"
and it says "swiss made." boy, i'm sure that's a true statement. it actually does have
the little, like, kind of gucci sort of symbol on
the actual band itself. and i will say it's actually thick and does feel relatively nice. now, the watch itself
does look mega cheap. okay, i found one problem. the wristband is so stiff. this is flat. so i can't actually, like... the question is, this is clearly not an authentic
piece of gucci merchandise, but exactly how cheap is this knockoff? - [jared] this was $29. - for a knockoff though, 30
bucks is a little bit much. but i appreciate the brazenness. a lot of things on wish that are knockoffs will like change something, like the furby, wherever
it went, was a fearby. but this is a straight fake gucci watch. (air whooshing)
(parcel thuds) next up, we've got case 100x microscope with illuminant with a magnification of 100 times. - [ken] wait, so this is like
binoculars for small things? (austin chuckles) - also known as a microscope? - ah, yeah. okay. - okay, what should i magnify? - oh-
- water? - no, a pokemon card. you gotta get focused, just right, but i can see every speck of ink on this. that's some detail right there. jared, how much was this 100x microscope that you can see into the future with? - this was 8.55. - [ken] oh. - honestly, wish is a
good spot for these weird little gadgets and gizmos. (water sloshing) (plastic rustling)
(parcel thuds) we've got ourselves a men's bag. wow, bull captain. "hello, my name is bull captain. i will try my best to present
myself to you in the future." - what? he's a genie.
(person laughing) - all right. oh, i see something. it's a passthrough usb port, where you can plug this
in into a power bank and then you can externally
plug into your bull, and you can charge up your device. - oh, that's actually
kinda stylish on him. - you know what? this
actually feels pretty comfy. and while it's not super high quality, i want to embrace the bull captain life. how much was this bull captain bag? - it was only 25 bucks. - wow.
- you know what? the wish fit coming together. you know what? actually, hang on. i'm missing one thing though. (dolphin chirping)
(person laughing) - next item, please.
(air whooshing) - this is brooch. - [ken] broach? - brooch. you guys trust me, right? - no.
- no. - [matt] never. we've
never once done that. - can i reach inside
your shirt for a moment? - what?
- what? - oh, (chuckles) it's upside
down. that makes it better. - "i tried." (chuckles)
(group laughs) - [austin] how much was
this "i tried" brooch? - this was 95 cents. - you know what? i'm feeling good. this episode of wishtery tech is coming in with some high quality items. (plastic rustles)
(group laughing) - [jared] you looked down
right as i throw it. (laughs) - this is
(plastic rustling) the singing cactus. all right. - [cactus] all right. - no!
(group laughing) - [furby] let's try to (indistinct) it. - [cactus] let's try to (indistinct) it. (cactus buzzing) - i feel like i've descended
into some deep circle of hell. - [cactus] deep circle of hell. - [furby] i feel like, i feel like i've descended into some
deep circle of hell. - can we please move on? i don't even care how much the cactus was. i need to move on.
(group laughing) (crickets chirping) (toys thudding)
(playful music) - this is... it's a ghost detector. it literally just said
the word ghost on it. it will detect rf radio frequencies. apparently, all ghosts live between the 120 to 600 megahertz band. just like 5g. (group laughing) - [jared] see if the furby's haunted. (furby rattling) (austin laughs) (detector beeping) (group screaming) - oh my god!
- it's haunted! (static rattling)
(person groans) - matt, stand up for a second. don't tell me where your mic
pack is. i'm gonna find it. - iphone.
- i've seen this at tsa before. - sorry, i need you to bend over. (person laughing)
i found it. it's in this pocket. it found it! it worked!
- ah. - it might find ghosts, 5g, or micro listening devices. maybe even missiles. who even knows? (air whooshing)
(box thuds) (upbeat music) - [matt] it actually came. - what if i could tell you, friends, that 2006 could be returned to us? - oh my god.
(ken whimpers) - [ken] you see this? workplace abuse. - would you even like to play wu sports? - [ken] wait, did you think i was a tv? - my wii to hdmi, my hdmi cable, and most importantly, the wu console. wu custom console case. "replace your existing console case with a unique custom
replacement case kit." - [jared] woo. that is not what
we ordered at all. (chuckles) - but it's so heavy though. hold on, hold on, hold on. what is inside here? - it's-
- it's a- - it's a wu. they just put that on the box so that secret service doesn't
tackle them at the border. this looks like a legitimate wii. but if you look closer, you can tell that at the very
least it has a new shell. the things you can find on wish.com. completely wild. all right, let's see what happens. - [jared] it didn't beep like a wii. - it didn't, but it made a drive noise. oh, i think what we've
got here is our real wii that has been jailbroken, rehoused, got all kinds of new accessories. look at the completely
authentic games we've got, including just dance 2,
mario galaxy, and that's it. it clearly works as a real home-brew wii. jared, how much do we pay for
the wu custom console case that's an actual real console? - $111. - i feel like you could
probably spend a saturday or two going to a garage sale, and you're gonna find an
authentic wii for 10 bucks. - what?
- i'll tell you, wii's have actually come up in price.
- yeah. - 111 bucks actually isn't totally crazy. i mean, of course, i would
never condone such behavior. i just purchased this
for educational use only. nintendo, please don't take my video down. however, wish.com, you
got some explaining to do. (air whooshing)
it's time to evaluate the scent slammer. it has been charging for over an hour now. let's see if it can slam my scent.
(device thuds) how do i activate this? - [ken] don't hold it up
next to your nose as well. - whoa! (coughs) it smells like chlorine. - [jare] oh, that's what ozone is actually supposed to smell like. there's another couple
minutes off the life. oop. (laughs) - you know what, you would
rather smell like ozone than smell like shame
and poor decision making. i'm right there with you, friends. jared, could you please give us an item to end this episode of wishtery tech on a bang.
(inspirational music) (box thuds)
(austin laughs) there comes a time in life when browsing wish.com, you see something that
truly catches the eye. - boomer impulse?
- it's the boomer impulse led bluetooth boombox. - ooh.
- i like that. it weighs absolutely nothing.
- dude, it's like a cardboard too.
- yeah. - you can see the, like- - are you serious?
- the spiral in it. - yeah.
- it also has a mic jack, but it's a big boy. oh, it has aux as well. usb, microsd- - [boombox] power on. - [ken] ooh, that's got (indistinct). - [boombox] wireless
device is ready to pair. - [ken] hold on, i got it. okay. - ken, serenade us. (bright orchestral music) - it doesn't sound bad, but if you want, like, a nice deep bass... i mean, that is about as
deep as a little puddle. - how much was the boomer impulse? - [jared] this is 32 bucks. - wow! - yeah.
- terrible. - that's half a social security check. well, my friends, if
you would like to see me continue my descent into madness, make sure to subscribe to the channel, ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling button. i'll see you on the interwebs.