- inside this box, i have the brand new xbox series s. it's time for some unboxing, my friends. so what i know is that inside this box, i should have a full unit of both the series s and series x. now they are not currently functional. for that, we'll have to
wait a couple more months, but it should give us a very good idea of what these consoles look like, the size, and importantly, we know a lot more information now compared to even a couple days ago when everything unceremoniously leaked. bubble wrap. well, that's exciting.
- [matt] yay! - okay, so we have two boxes here. so i'm going to guess
that this is the series s. oh, that's-- - [matt] whoa! - that is tiny. hold on a second. - [ken] oh, wow. - what? wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, hold on a second, hold on a second. so one of the things is
because they've stopped using an optical drive, that means that they
kind of get a little bit of a free pass to redesign the console in whatever way they want. and they've gone for
something very, very small. oh, look at it. it's so cute. so first of all, you'll see that there is the
very large opening for the fan. now this is actually not that different than what you would have seen on something like the xbox one s. the only difference there
was that it was actually all the same color, so it
blended in a little bit, but you'll see that this is
actual, like solid plastic. so the only vent on the
top is this black vent. this looks fine. you imagine that like, underneath your like,
cabinet or something at home, that's going to look really nice. - [ken] hi welcome to mcdonalds,
can i take your order? - so we have the controller button here, as well as we have one usb-a port and the actual xbox button. so around back, we have
what actually looks to be a very similar port layout. so we have the figure
eight cable here for power, we have these same external ssd solution from the xbox series x. so that's something to actually consider. with the series s, you're getting a 512 gigabyte hard drive, or specifically a 512 gigabyte ssd. it is the same spec as what
you get on the series x, which means that it is very fast, but 500 gigs is not exactly a ton of space considering that of
course, look around front, there's no optical drive. you're going to be entirely
using this as a digital console, which is something to consider if you plan on installing tons of games, and because this is a
next generation console, those games aren't going to be small. you know, you're looking at 50, 100, potentially 150 gig games. so you may want to consider the idea that you want to use that expansion slot to get yourself a little
bit of extra storage. so with the series s you can still connect to an hdmi 2.1 display. it will support up to
120 frames per second. it does support 4k. potentially, we may see 8k support, although you'll never
be able to game at 8k, and let's be real, the series x also won't
really be gaming at 8k, but the thing is, you'll be able to do pretty much everything
you can on the series s as you can on the x,
the only difference is this is a less powerful console. so inside the series s, what you're getting getting are very, very similar specs to the full series x. so on the cpu side, it is
looking almost identical. so you still have that same 8-core design, it is going to be clocked
200 megahertz lower. so you're looking at 3.4 to
3.6 compared to 3.6 to 3.8. honestly, you're not going
to notice whatsoever. it does have that same style of the xbox velocity architecture, so you have a standard ssd. it is not going to be any
slower, it's just smaller, but that shouldn't make any difference to performance at all, really where the cutbacks
are going from x to s are really twofold. so it's a smaller console. and that is largely because it has what i'm sure is a much
simpler cooling solution. in fact, actually microsoft
have already released a little bit of a breakdown
of what's inside this console. and if you look at it compared
to the series x breakdown, there is a much, much
smaller cooling solution, which makes sense, because inside we have a much smaller gpu. so where are the series
x has a 52 cu model of the amd rdna 2.0 gpu,
this only has 20 cus, which means that when you
actually run the numbers with the clock speed, it means that this will give you about four teraflops of performance compared to 12 teraflops
on the xbox series x. now you might think one third the graphics seems like that's a big cut. and of course it is, but to get down to this lower price point, that ultimately is going to be a huge part of how they've done that. so sure. when you look at a $300
price point and go, oh no, it's so much less powerful
on the graphics side. that seems like a big step down. but this is targeting 1440p at 60 fps, which is not that far off of
the 4k60 that the series x is aiming for. and of course, keep in mind
that both of these consoles are still capable of
120 frames per second. in fact, they actually
released a demo of gears 5 running on the series s at 120 fps. so for a little size comparison, why don't we put the series
s beside the og xbox one. that's a... that's a lot bigger. can you see that? and the thing is, the original xbox one didn't even have an internal
power supply, which this does. so you also have the extra
brick on the outside. so i think it's safe to say that if you're upgrading
from the original xbox one, this series s will fit
wherever that one lives. literally wherever. so for a little size comparison, i have not only the xbox one s, but i also have the one
s all digital edition, the grandfather of the xbox series s. so if i put this on top, you'll immediately be able to see that it is significantly smaller. so you can see it's smaller here, and it is significantly thinner here. and that is in large
part because the series s doesn't have that optical disk drive. and if we actually do them side by side. i'm curious. it's a little bit taller? no, it's not. it's the same. there's no difference. it's, they're exactly
the same height, wow. i actually didn't expect that. look at that. and if you actually
look around to the back at the ports here, you'll see
that between the consoles, they're very much a sort
of drop in upgrade, right? so you can see that they both use the same figure-eight power cable,
they both have hdmi out, although it does not
have the hdmi in anymore, two usb-a ports as well as ethernet, but we don't have the
ir out or the ir blaster on the one s and we also
do not have the optical audio, which i think are pretty
reasonable trade-offs. really what you're getting
here is a console which, if your xbox one or specifically the one s sitting around, it's going to
definitely fit in, no problem. i actually wanna see how this matches up with the xbox one x. you know, it's funny. they really seem to have
modeled this after the one s. it doesn't actually match
the one x quite so well if i actually flip it around. but it's still smaller, right? there's no doubt that this
is the smaller console. it's interesting to think about the one s as far as it being a $300 console. so of course it is a major step up over something like the one s, which was technically capable of 4k, but couldn't come close to that in gaming, whereas this should be
capable of 1440p gaming. and depending on the game, some games may use dynamic resolution to try to get a little bit higher, but the main difference
between the series x and the series s is that,
of course, this is cheaper. $200 is a big difference. i think $300 is going to
be a major selling point when it comes to a next gen console. but it's really gonna
come down to graphics because pretty much everything
that the series x can do, so can the series s. however, with those lower end graphics, essentially what you're going to be doing is you're going to be running games at maybe slightly lower settings, but mostly a lower resolution. so you should see a
very similar performance between the two. now, of course, that is all with a huge grain of salt that we have not actually
tried the series s yet. we don't know exactly
what games will look like, and we don't know how severe
the cuts are going to be. on the surface, a gpu which
is one third as powerful does sound like a major cutback. on the other hand, though, if you're able to get
this console for $300, which of course you will, it still has the ssd, still
has what is essentially a ryzen 7 processor. don't forget, this is
essentially a ryzen 7 cpu, which is almost $300 by
itself at the moment. that's kind of incredible, right? so if we get even close to that series x level of performance in
something which is this small and thin and lightweight, well, i guess, i don't know it's gonna be lightweight, and i'm sure it will. this is going to be really exciting, but we're not done yet, my friends. oh, no, of course you have
one more box, don't we? we have one more brand
new xbox to open today, which of course is the xbox series x, but that gets its own video. so make sure you're subscribed. make sure to go watch the
xbox series x unboxing and let me know what you
think about the new hotness, the very, very small new hotness. it's so cool, right? it's so tiny. these things are going to
sell like hotcakes, man. they're going to be
absolutely impossible to find, like, everyone's going to want one.