- hey guys, this is austin. i might not have a voice today, but what i do have is the lenovo
mirage solo with daydream. do you see what i did there? this is a very different way of doing vr, and this is a very different way for me to talk in my
videos, 'cause i'm sick. of course, huge shout out to lenovo for sponsoring this video. what makes the mirage solo
a little bit different is this is a properly powerful
untethered vr headset. inside, you'll find a
2560x1440p 75hz display. now, that high resolution, especially paired with
the high frame rate, is really key to making the
vr experience feel natural. one of the main advantages
to using the mirage solo is that this is a fully
standalone headset. i don't need to worry about my smartphone being plugged in and draining battery, and it's also a much smoother experience, largely due actually to the fact that it does have not only
that high refresh rate display, but importantly it also
does support worldsense, so unlike most daydream headsets which do rely on a little bit more of a limited bit of gyroscope to be able to place you in the world, we do have a full six degrees of freedom. what's really cool about this is that you can literally use it anywhere. i mean, i'm in the middle of the park and i could easily be playing
a game, watching a movie. it really does give you
a lot of possibilities. the mirage solo runs on
daydream, google's vr ecosystem. surprisingly, it actually
works really well. you have most of the
different apps and features that you have on full android, just available in a headset form. that means that we've got
apps such as youtube vr. now this will give you a
ton of different options, so if i jump in here, not
only do we have full 360 and'0-degree video, which
looks great on the headset, but you can also watch
standard 2d video like this. the way that works is
it literally looks like i've just got a huge
display in front of me, like a movie theater or something. so, thanks to dead trigger
and a few zombie friends, i can show a little bit
more of the performance of what you can actually
expect out of the mirage solo. inside, we have pretty decent specs, a snapdragon 835 as well
as four gigabytes of ram. that's bad, that's bad! no, no, no, no! you should get three hours of battery life if you can survive the zombies that long, but there are a ton of games and apps that do work on the headset. it's not all about the
mirage solo, though. there's also this little guy, the lenovo mirage camera with daydream. this is not a 360-degree camera. it uses a pair of fisheye lenses up front to give you a'0-degree field of view, or as google calls the format, vr180. this is a demo of what video looks like on the mirage camera. one of the cool advantages of this format is that while you still get
all of the advantages of vr, you still do get a very
wide field of view, too. this is a full'0 degrees. what i like about this
is that it gives you a lot of flexibility
when it comes to framing, so we can still have ken behind
the camera doing ken things, but i can also pick up and very easily do a little bit of vlogging. the really cool part about this is that because it is so wide, i know that i can always get the shot, and specifically, if you
do have a smartphone, you can actually scroll on the video if you watch the raw stuff,
link in the description, but it's a really, really cool aspect and a really cool way of shooting you definitely don't get with
any kind of standard camera. you can control the camera
as well as play back the photos and videos using the vr180 app. this is a little demo we took
in the car a couple days ago. as you can see, what's really
cool about the'0 format is that specifically on a
smartphone you can pinch in, you can zoom around, but you do get that full'0-degree field of view. the video is a lot more immersive when you're watching it in the headset, so it's kinda hard to give you a real demo without actually having one of your own, but it makes a huge difference, and because the camera will
shoot at a full 4k resolution, we get those pixels all the way blown up. it makes a really big difference. i mean, i can see the
detail on the gauges. i can see the terrified
look on ken's face. i can see jay as he
makes this tight corner, and, oh, oh, whoa, yeah! oh, dude! that actually feels really good if i spin the chair as i
see myself turn in the car. it actually feels like i'm really there. if you've never properly experienced vr or maybe you've been turned
off by cheap mobile vr, the lenovo mirage solo and camera are definitely worth a look, and of course, i'll have a link to check out both these
guys in the description, so those of you who want more information, we'll have a bunch of other
videos linked as well.