- the following is a
conversation with joe rogan, his second time on this podcast. he has inspired me for many years with his conversations to be
a better and kinder person and has now been doing so as a friend. there's no one i would rather talk to on this 300th episode of this
podcast on the 4th of july, both the anniversary of this country's declaration of independence and the anniversary of my immigrating here to the united states. a silly kid who couldn't speak english and could never imagine that
he would be so damn lucky as to live the life i've lived. to feel the love i've felt from the amazing people along the way. from the bottom of my heart, thank you. i love you all. this is the, "lex fridman podcast." to support it, please
check out our sponsors in the description. and now, dear friends, here's joe rogan. charles bukowski said something in a poem called, "style about art." he defined art saying, "style
is the answer to everything. a fresh way to approach
adult or dangerous thing. to do a dull thing with
style is preferable to doing a dangerous thing without it. to do a dangerous thing with
style, is what i call art." what do you think you meant by that? do you agree with this? - a dangerous thing with style is art. - he said, "bull fighting can be art, boxing can be art, loving can be art." have you ever made love and it was art? no, i'm kidding, i'm not asking. (laughing) - every time, bro. - opening a can of sardines can be art. - i think there's something to that. yeah, i think, i call the
way people live life art. like i wrote a forward to my
friend cameron haynes's book and which is right now the number one selling
audio book in the world. and i, one of the things that i said, was that he practices an art that very few people appreciate and it's the art of the maximized life and that the discipline
that he displays in his life and through his practices and
all the things that he does, it's so difficult to
live the way he lives. that for someone like
me, who understands it and knows what he's
doing and appreciates it and appreciates how
insanely difficult it is to have a full-time job
and run ultra-marathons, get up at four o'clock in the morning, run a full marathon before work. like, that's the kind
of shit that he does, when he is training for
these 240 mile runs, all at the same time being
like a father, a husband, having this full-time job, also being the best bow hunter
on earth, lifting weights. it's like, how does a person do this? - so in a way, discipline is art too. - yes, discipline is art. yeah, i think it is 'cause
it's beautiful for me to see, when i see someone who's
really, truly disciplined, who, like a david goggins, someone who just like
truly maximizes the grind. i feel like there's an art to that and there's an art to kindness. like, there's people that are
really kind and really sweet. and when i'm around them, it's beautiful. it's like, there's a art to them. - [lex] no matter what. - yeah. - they still, they got, you know, the world can throw a
bunch of shit at you, but through all of that. - they're like eh! some people are just great at it. - [lex] yeah. - and it's a thing that
you learn how to do and it's pleasing for other people to see. and that i think is where the art is. - well, i think bukowski also said and i'm just a bukowski
quote generator today. - [joe] i love him. - i love him very much too. he's a dark and troubled and fascinating and a weird person like
hunter s. thompson. - [joe] yeah. - he said, "what matters most is how you walk through the fire." i think, so there's a bit of
the cam hanes in that too, david goggins in that too. what do you think he meant by that? - well, how you walk through the fire? i mean, you can walk through the fire complaining along the way or you can walk through the fire and create an example for everyone else so that the trials and
tribulations of their own lives seem trivial because
they're comparing themselves to the way you handle things or the way you handle things
with grace and dignity and discipline can show other people that they can handle
their own life this way. and there's beauty in
that, there really is. and there's so much inspiration to be gathered from other people. if you're a charitable person, if you're charitable and compassionate and you can look at people,
even people that i don't like, i try to look at the best aspects of how they live their life
and recognize those aspects, admire them, give them credit for it. there's something that
we can all get out of watching the way other
people live their lives. so i got a chance to see
you walk through the fire a little bit privately and publicly, this year in january? i gotta ask you about that. - [joe] oh, all that stuff? - so there's like generic conversations about sort of cancel culture
and all those kinds of things. but as a human being, this to
me is a fascinating sort of, there's the n word highlight video. there's the criticism
of the different guests, whatever the side is
on the covid pandemic. and you, i mean, there's a
mass amount of attack on you outside of being a public persona, outside of being a comedian, podcaster, you're also a human being. so how did you survive that? how did you sort of
walk through that fire? because you seem to do it with grace. - i used mushrooms. (laughing) that was one way i did it. - [lex] yeah, yeah. - really. - what's your, as andrew
huberman would say, what was your protocol? - i took, it was probably
less than a gram, everyday. - [lex] everyday. - yeah and uh, (laughing) i did a lot of like
really hard working out, but also, i mean, there's a great benefit to going through anything difficult. and if you're aware like
in advance and during, like anything that's gonna happen that's very difficult and troubling. the great benefit is it gives
you an opportunity to grow, gives you an opportunity to
express yourself under pressure, to show your character,
to show who you truly are. and it gives you an opportunity to see how you handle a
very difficult situation. it also was fascinating as a person that's involved in media, right? because what we're doing
right now is media, even though, you know,
it seems like podcasts seem like we're just having
a conversation, right? - [lex] yeah.
- and they are. and in that sense, it's kind
of the purest form of media because what you're doing is, you're doing it without any fanfare. you're doing it without any, there's no executives
looming over your head or network or big meetings about ratings or any of that stuff, but it is media. but what i got to see is
the wiring under the machine of how the rest of media
would try to take me out. and, you know, like when cnn
would be just be playing things over and over and back and
forth, it was wild to watch. what was also wild to watch,
was people's responses because i gained 2 million
subscribers during that time. like, the podcast never got bigger. it just kept, kept growing, it had never been bigger than it had been at the end of all of it. it just made it bigger. and, you know, ultimately if
you've fucked up in the past or made mistakes or done something wrong, that gives you an opportunity
to discuss those things and to say, to apologize if
you feel the need to apologize and also to just address it. and so people under that kind of pressure, it's an opportunity for them to understand how you think about things, honestly. how you actually, honestly
think about things. and there's no more honesty
that you get out of a person than when that person is under
extreme duress, you know? so i think in that sense, i mean, it's horrible to say that it's a benefit, that it's a good thing that it happened, but it was a benefit. - can you see how it can break a person? - [joe] yes. - because i've gotten a
chance to experience small, small attacks here and there. - [joe] yeah. - ones that get to the core of things, like even just talking
about russia and ukraine to steven cochrane or oliver stone, looking at different perspectives. you gain, for me, feeling like
a sizable number of people who really don't like you. - [joe] yeah. - and say things about you that are, that may be cut deep for a
reason i don't understand why. it's just my own psychology. - well, it's also because
you can't defend yourself because they're saying
it and you're not there. and you don't have any
opportunity for a rebuttal. and if you do have a rebuttal, you're doing it publicly
and you're opening it up to the whole world to chime in. and there's a general tendency that people have towards negativity when they're interacting
with strangers online, especially about controversial subjects. and even if it's only 10% of
the people, it's one out of 10. that's a lot. that's a lot of negativity when you're dealing with
thousands and thousands of tweets. - yeah and i think maybe i'm just a very self-critical person,
but i hear their words and probably somewhere deep inside, see the truth in the criticism, in some aspect of the criticism
and that's why it hurts. - well, but it's one aspect of you. - [lex] right.
- you know, but when you're reading it, it's so, it's boiled down to this one thing as if that one thing defines you totally. like if you've made a mistake, if you've said something
that you shouldn't have said or if you said something and you know, maybe you should have
considered it more carefully giving the gravity of the situation. you know, that that's just
a part of being a person. and it's also part of being a person where you're communicating
with things publicly in real time, thinking out
loud, which is what we do. you know, it's complex and
most people don't do it. and you're gonna have genuine hot takes where people just see
what you said and go, why did he say that? fuck him, you know, he
doesn't know anything about, he doesn't live in ukraine. he doesn't, you know, people that are gonna have
takes on that in that way. and then there's also gonna
be these disingenuous people who just use any kind of
controversial topic or subject as an opportunity for them
to get clicks or views. - but the number of those
people can be quite large. - [joe] quite large. - and so, going back to, do you think it can destroy a person? 'cause i kind of worry about this and you're in many ways, but
in this way, an inspiration that it didn't seem to
have destroyed you, but is- - i kept doing shows,
i kept doing standup. i ignored everything. i didn't read any of it. - [lex] so it is possible to. - 100%, yes, yeah. i ignored it all. - [lex] but you have like - - i knew it was there. - [lex] like your family
didn't bring it up. - my family was very aware of it. my wife was aware of it. - what was the conversation like, if your wife is aware of
it, is there like a rule? pretend it's not happening. - [joe] no. - just like- - well, i tell her don't ever read. - [lex] pass the green beans. - yeah, i don't ever let her like read negative articles to me. you know, i don't want 'em, i don't care. and that's a person's opinion. you take a person's
opinion, you write it down, it doesn't give it any more relevance. like that person, you know, could have had that opinion in silence. they could have had it with
some friends at dinner. they don't like me, whatever. i don't wanna read it,
i don't wanna absorb it, i don't even know them. especially if i'm not there. and especially if it's biased and it's not an objective opinion of me. it's this, you know, they have a narrative and they wanna stick to that narrative and they wanna write an article and they piece it all together, make you look like a piece of shit and that's their prerogative. they're completely allowed to do that. but i don't, i shouldn't absorb that, i shouldn't take that in. you're not supposed to be taking in the opinion of the world. - [lex] yeah. - you're supposed to be
taking in the opinion of small groups of
people that you encounter so that you get an understanding
of how you make them feel. and then maybe you say to yourself, maybe i come across too rude or maybe i come across too insensitive or maybe i could do better
in this way or that way. that's how we sort of
shape our personalities and that's how we develop
our social skills. but when the people don't know
you and they have this like, distorted narrative of you and you know, there's fuckin' millions of people, there's so many people, you can't be sane. - [lex] i think there's
billions now actually. - i mean, millions of people that are like communicating
about something. - [lex] yeah. - like during the height of the, you know, the attempt to cancel
me or whatever that is, i don't know how many people
were involved in that. - people take this kind
of stuff seriously. but the problem is the
false narratives take hold. and then you have
meetings, you have groups, you have bills on top of each other and there's this outrage and then it reaches you at some point. and it can just have
these destructive effects. - it can, but it also sometimes doesn't. and in my case, it didn't work. (laughing) - what lessons did you draw from that? mushrooms, excerise. - mushrooms and exercise,
exercise is critical. i don't think the mushrooms
by themselves would've worked, but that's the thing that
i use for everything, is the brutal exercise. like my exercise routines are horrible. and because of that,
everything else is easier. i create my own bullshit and my own bullshit is so much harder. and it's not just that, it's
also sauna and cold plunge and these torture
sessions, enduring those. when you endure those, it makes enduring other
things much easier. and it's also an understanding
of what's happening. like, you have to know, like media, you have to understand
like what the hot take, you know, youtube, social media,
podcast ecosphere is doing. like if they're talking about, you know, lex fridman said this and
we have to comment on that. and you know, lex gets
canceled in all capital letters on a youtube clip. and if you watch that,
you're fucking crazy. what are you doing absorbing
all this negativity? it's not good for you. you are you, you know you and you know generally
if you've made a mistake and you know generally if
people are upset with you. - you posted this awesome
video on your instagram of a woman who was being
interviewed in late 1920s maybe? - [joe] yes, yeah, yeah. - and she's close to 100 years old. so she's lived through the
civil war, through world war i, she was at the time living through the early days of the great depression. so i was just looking back, you know, what have we as a human civilization in recent times survived,
especially in the united states. you're talking about the two
world wars in the 20th century, the great depression, the spanish food, the pandemic at the beginning
of the 20th century. - [joe] yeah. - what did we do in the united states? 9/11, if you think of what
are the traumatic events that shook our world, it's 9/11. it's made us rethink
our place in the world. the pandemic. - pandemic is a huge one. - [lex] i mean- - one of the bigger ones
'cause it also accelerated and exacerbated our anxiety, which people have a certain
level of anxiety already. especially sedentary people. they have a very high
level of anxiety already because i don't think
they're giving their body what it needs. i don't think they're, you know, your body has certain
requirements in terms of movement. and when you deny your
body those requirements, i think there's like a
general level of anxiety that exists in almost everyone. and then you have people, obviously, that have mental health issues and that also exacerbates the anxiety, the lockdown exacerbated the anxiety. losing loved ones to the
pandemic exacerbated anxiety. and then there was the division, the different schools of thought, the people that were never
gonna get vaccinated, don't matter what, i ain't trusting it. people that thought there
was microchips in there, people that thought that, you know, fauci is the demon and there was a lot and there's also like political leanings. the right wing people tended
to not want to be vaccinated. whereas the left wing
people, for whatever reason, all of a sudden are trusting
pharmaceutical companies like explicitly, it was weird. it was a weird time. and i think over time, as it gets analyzed and we break it down, it's gonna be one of the weirder moments for shaping human culture. and unfortunately for throwing gasoline on this already burning fire of, you know, of conflict
between the various factions of thought in this country. it's just a, it's already a
weird time you know post-trump. like the trump era is also going to be one of the weirder times when
people look back historically about the division in this country. he's such a polarizing figure that so many people felt like they could abandon
their own ethics and morals and principles just to attack him and anybody who supports him because he is an existential
threat to democracy itself. - but don't you think it's not a cause but maybe like a symptom? like it's gonna get, you
said it got real weird, maybe it's gonna get weirder. - yeah, i think it's gonna get weirder. he's gonna run again and
it's gonna get weird. - [lex] you think he wins? - well, he's running against a dead man. you know, i mean, biden
shakes hands with people that aren't even there
when he gets off stage. - [lex] yeah. - i think he's seeing ghosts. - [lex] yeah. - you see him on jimmy
kimmel the other day? - [lex] no. - well, he was just rambling. i mean, if he was anyone
else, if he was a republican, if that was donald trump doing that, every fucking talk show would be screaming for him to be off the air. and i'm, by the way, i'm
not a trump supporter in any way, shape or form. i've had the opportunity
to have him on my show more than once, i've said no every time. i don't wanna help him, i'm
not interested in helping it. - the night is still young, we'll see. - if i have 'em on the
night is still young? - yeah.
- you think i'll have him on? - [lex] yeah, i think you'll have 'em on. - really?
- [lex] yeah. - why do you think that? 'cause you'll have putin on. (laughing) - and you're competitive as fuck, no. (laughing) i think ultimately, i mean, you've had a lot of people that i think you may
otherwise be skeptical, would i have a good conversation? which i think is your metric. you don't care about politics, so can i have a good conversation? and i think you had, people
like kanye on, for example. - [joe] yes.
- and you had a great conversation with them. i think you, i think- - yeah but kanye is an artist like, but kanye doing well or not doing well doesn't change the course of our country. - yeah but you don't, do you really bear the responsibility of the course of our country
based on a conversation? - i think you can revitalize and rehabilitate someone's image in a way that is pretty shocking. look at the way people
look at alex jones now. 'cause alex jones has been
on my podcast a few times. - yeah, how do they, which direction? - the people that have
watched those podcasts, think he's hilarious and they think that he
definitely fucked up with that whole sandy hook thing. but he's right more than he is wrong. and he's not an evil guy. he's just a guy who's had some
psychotic breaks in his life. he's had some genuine mental health issues that he's addressed. he's had some serious bouts of alcoholism, some serious bouts of,
you know, substance abuse and they've contributed to
some very poor thinking. but if you know the guy, if you
get to know him like i have, i've known him for more than 20 years. and if you know him on podcasts, you realize like he is genuinely trying to unearth some things that are genuinely
disturbing for most people. like this is a guy that was telling me about epstein's island a fuckin' decade ago, at least. he was telling me about
it, i was like, "what? you're telling me there's a place where they bring elites to compromise them with underage girls and they filmed them? really, like, cut the fuck outta here." - [lex] yeah. - like, no, president
clinton's been there, everyone's been there, like, what? it sounds like nonsense. and not only is it true, but people keep getting
fucking murdered for it. did you see that latest clinton advisor that got murdered about it? - [lex] yep, yep. - yeah, hung with an extension cord, shot himself in the chest
30 miles from his house and they're calling it a suicide. - and now even elon musk is asking, where's the clientele list? - [joe] yeah. - we should probably see
who's been to that island. - yeah, we should probably
see who's been to that island. and there's probably more of
those kind of things out there that haven't been exposed. - yeah, but sort of to push back, and you had those
conversations with alex jones. wouldn't you be able to have
the same kind of conversation with donald trump? - yeah, that's the problem. - reveal, no, it's not the problem. you revealed that alex
jones is a human being. - [joe] yeah.
- he's fucked up, he has demons in his head. he's obviously chaotic all over the place, but there's some wisdom to the perspective he takes on the world. even though he is often full of shit, he's able to predict certain things that very few people are
are willing to bring up. so isn't trump the same way? fucked up person, egomaniac,
whatever personality things you can talk about, isn't
it worthwhile to lay it out? like who's going to, if you
listen to interviews of trump, who has the balls to call
him out on his bullshit? - chris wallace did. - no, calling out
somebody on their bullshit is easy when you're
just being adversarial. but as a person who is genuinely, empathetically trying to understand. - [joe] yeah. - i think you're really good at that. like you pulled him in. - i don't know if he
would genuinely be there. you know what i'm saying? - [lex] yeah. - like, i think he would
be putting on a performance and that's. - you don't think you
can break through that in like 30 minutes? - i'd need more time than that. and he doesn't do any drugs,
that's the thing about alex. - [lex] oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. - you can get alex high.
- [lex] yeah. and get him drunk and
he'll start talking about inter dimensional child molesters. - [lex] yeah.
- you know. and then you get the real alex. - maybe you have somebody else on as well to introduce chaos, like alex. - no, no, no, no. that would have to be just me and him. i would have to be, that
would be a focused thing. i would have to like really
take time with trump. but also i'm not well
versed enough politically to know all of the corruption
that's been alleged and to understand what the
whole russiagate stuff, what's real, like how much of it, it's clear that there was
more than one organization that's involved in
communicating with russia before the 2016 elections. it's pretty clear that
the clinton administration was involved. it's pretty clear that
the trump administration had some communication
with some people in russia. it's pretty clear that hunter biden had some very suspicious
dealings in ukraine. and there's a lot going on there, man. and it's hard for anybody to parse, it's really hard for anybody and especially to have
an objective assessment of exactly what's going on. and then to be able to do that and broadcast it publicly,
that's quite a project. and i think if you really
want to do that correctly, it's something that i would
have to research for a long time and to really, really and i
don't have that kind of time. - not for, maybe for certain people that you're really curious about. - [joe] yeah.
- like you have that kind of time for bob lazar. - [ joe] yes, yes. (laughing) - but maybe not for donald trump. - no, that's different because bob lazar, you know what he's talking about. like, i wanted to know
with the bob lazar thing, i wanted to know, first of all, i wanted to be around him and
see if i could smell bullshit. - [lex] did you, like? - no, i didn't, man. that was what's weird about it. not only did i not smell bullshit, i went over all of his interviews. i went over, he hasn't done
a lot, but he's done enough and he is done them over
the course of 30 plus years. and it's alarming how
consistent his story is, which is really weird
when you think about, you're talking about back
engineering alien crafts and working on a, you know, a top secret government test site that's carved into the side of a mountain to camouflage it from satellites. it's such a wacky story. but the guy really did
work at los alamos labs. he really is a propulsions expert, he really is a scientist. did he really work on
back engineering ufos? i don't know, but the way
he described their motion is exactly like what's been observed by some of these pilots
that have these videos that they've captured. - and i just love that, like nasa, i've been hearing from a bunch of folks who they're legitimately
like funding research and there's people really
taking this seriously, of ufo sightings, investigating them. - [joe] yeah. - like adding more and more sensors to collect data from just observing at higher and higher definitions. it's cool to finally see that. and he was one of the early people, whether he's full of shit or not, that kind of forced people
to start taking this kind of, these topics seriously. - or at least forced people to
have conversations about them and maybe attempt to debunk them because it seemed so preposterous. but then get sucked down the rabbit hole and start going, hmm, maybe, fuckin', the thing is, like the firmi paradox, like where are they, right? and when you take into account
just the sheer raw numbers, the vast majority of people objectively assume that
there is life out there. the vast majority. well, if you really take into account what we understand about
the universe itself, what we understand about
the concept of infinity and the way neil degrasse
tyson has explained it to me is that not only are there
life forms out there, but there's, you, you are out there. infinity is so large
that lex fridman exists and doesn't just exist, but exists an infinite number of times. like the amount of interactions
that cells and molecules, the same exact interactions
that have happened here on earth have happened in the exact same order an infinite number of times in the cosmos. - well, first of all, it's
not certain that that's true. it's possible. - [joe] it's possible. - like sean carroll, you know, especially with quantum mechanics based on certain interpretation
of quantum mechanics. that's very possible. but the question is, can
you access those universes? - [joe] right and how far away are they? - the more sort of specific
practical question is this local pocket of
the universe, our galaxy or our neighboring galaxies,
are there aliens there? what do they look like? - [joe] right.
- are they, so you can have this panspermia idea where a much larger,
like daddy civilization, (laughing) like rolled by and just
planted a few aliens at a similar time. - [joe] like prometheus.
- yes. of different, you know,
throughout the galaxy. and those are the ones we
might be interacting with. they're all kind of dumb
as we are, relatively, you know, maybe a few million years apart. and then those are the
ones we're interacting with and then we have a chance to
actually connect with them and communicate with them. or it could be like much more wide open. and you have these gigantic
alien civilizations that are expanding very, very quickly. and the interesting thing is
when you look up at the sky and you see the stars, that's
light from those stars. we might not be seeing
the alien civilizations until they're already here, meaning- - [joe] right. - like you start expanding, once you get really good at expanding, you're going to be expanding very close to the speed of light. so right now we don't see much in the sky, but there could be one
night, one day we wake up and it's just like
everywhere and they're here. - [joe] right, but
because the amount of time the light takes to reach us, yeah. and then, the thing that i've
been really fascinated by is these alternative
forms of transportation that they're discussing. like the ability to harness wormhole and the ability to do things that a type three civilization is capable of. i had michio kaku on my podcast recently. fantastic, love that guy. he's so good at taking
extremely complex concepts and boiling them down for digestion and you know and saying them in a way that other people can appreciate. - and not being hesitant
about saying wild, crazy shit that's out there. - [joe] yeah. - but grounded in what's
actually possible. - yeah, he's all in on
this ufo phenomenon now. he's like, now the burden of proof is for people to come up with some sort of a conventional explanation
for these things. he goes, because these things
are defying all the concepts of physics that we currently know in terms of what our capabilities are and propulsion systems and
so many other things that, you know, what we know about, what current science is
capable of reproducing, as far as what we know. the problem is, like
these military projects that are top secret, like
how much money do they have? they have a lot of money. like, but is it possible and
maybe you could speak to this, is it possible that there could
be some propulsion systems that have been developed and implemented that are far beyond just the
simple burning of rocket fuel, pushing the fire out the back, which forces the rocket
at extreme speeds forward. that's something that
does harness gravity. something that can distort space and time and can make travel from
one point to another like preposterously fast. - well, not only is it possible, i think it's likely
that that kind of stuff would be kept a secret. - [joe] yeah. - it's just everything
you see about the way, either if it's contractors
like lockheed martin or if it's dod, the actual
departments of defense, they operate in complete secrecy. just even looking at the
history of the stealth fighter, just even stealth
technology was kept a secret for a very, very long time. - [joe] yeah. - and not until you are ready
to use it and need to use it, does it become public and
not officially public. it just, is being
detected out in the wild. so there's going to be a process where you're secretly testing
it and that might creep up, which is maybe what we're seeing. and then it's waiting
for the next big war, the next big reason to use the thing. - [joe] yeah. - and so yeah, there's, there's
definitely technologies now, there might not be
propulsion technologies, there could be ai
surveillance technologies, there could be different
kinds of stealth drones. there could be, it could
be also in cyberspace, like cyber war weapons,
all that kind of stuff that they're obviously
going to be kept secret. - i'm very skeptical lately. and the reason why i'm skeptical is the government keeps talking about it. the pentagon keeps talking about it, nasa keeps talking about. - in which direction are you skeptical? - i'm skeptical that it's, they're aliens. i think most likely it's a smoke screen. and most likely these
are some sort of like, incredibly advanced drones
that they've developed that they want to pretend don't exist. that seems the more likely scenario, 'cause otherwise my take is like, what's the benefit of them
discussing these things? like what's the benefit of them discussing these things openly? these are, you know, the
way they described it, off world crafts not made from this earth. like why? why would they tell us that? i mean, unless there's an imminent danger of us being invaded and
they wanna prepare people so they don't freak out as much. you know, like maybe freak
'em out a little bit. say that publicly. the new york times article,
the pentagon discussing it. all these different things happening. - [lex] test the waters. - yeah, well let let people
know that this is a thing. - [lex] yeah. - or my take is like, i
don't think they do that. i don't think they tell us. i think the government has a lot of contempt for
the citizens, i really do. i think they have contempt
for our intelligence. they have contempt for
our need to know things. and i also think they think
that they are running us. it's not we're all in this together and the government works for the people and the government is of the people. i don't think they think that way. - yeah, the basic idea is
you can't trust the populist, the government itself because
we're a bunch of idiots. - [joe] yeah, i think that's accurate. - well, they're not wrong,
but they're also idiots. power hungry idiots. - yeah, i don't think everyone's an idiot, but i think there are enough idiots that it becomes a real problem if you're completely honest
about everything you do and you know, you don't want to let everybody weigh in about things that are incredibly complex and that most people are ignorant of. - and on top of that, there's
this machine of intelligence that i've recently been
reading a lot about the kgb, about the fsb. so i've, several things
sparked my curiosity. so one, i'm traveling
to ukraine and to moscow and because of that i started to sort of ask practical questions of myself, just travel and all those kinds of things. so i started reading a lot about the kgb, jack barsky has a book
on this, i talked to him and you start to realize, you probably looked into some of this, but you start to realize
the scale of surveillance, of manipulation. now a lot of them also
talk about the incompetence of those organizations. the usual bureaucracy creeps in. but the point is, it
seems like there's no line they're not willing to cross for the purpose of gathering intelligence, for the purpose of controlling people in order to gather intelligence. now this is mi6, fsb, there's not much information
about the fsb or the gru, but the kgb. so we're always like
20 years behind or more on the actual information. and so i started to wonder, so i have not officially been contacted by any intelligence agency,
but i started to wonder, well is there somebody i
know that's doing that? undercover cia, undercover
fsb, undercover anything? - you probably do. - have you asked yourself this question? - yeah, for sure. yeah, people that have been on my podcast. yeah, for sure. - did you think there was actual, a guest that may have been? - 100%.
- oh man. - i would imagine. - [lex] would you know? - i have suspicions. - [lex] do you care? is this- - i mean, it depends on what they're attempting to do, right? like if i felt like there
was some deception involved and they were trying to use the podcast to manipulate a narrative
in a deceptive way to trick people into
things, yeah, i would care. - but this is exactly what, those are the kind of things they do. they do plant narratives. - yeah, i mean, i would imagine if you have the number
one podcast in the world that people would wanna infiltrate that. - yeah there's probably meetings in all major intelligence agencies about, okay, what are the large platforms? how do we spread the message? - yeah, well i mean that's
the thing that really emerged when we're talking about
during my cancellation, that there's a clear,
there's no objective analysis of this in mainstream media. there's clear narratives that they're trying to push forward to, whether it's to promote certain ideas or to diminish the power and reach of people who are mavericks or people who are, you know, who aren't connected to a system
that you can't compromise. that's where it gets dangerous, right? where it gets dangerous is when someone has the largest reach but is also completely detached and clearly is independent in the sense of independent thinking, has on whoever he wants. - but your mind can still be manipulated. - i guess i can, i mean, i guess everybody can be
manipulated a certain way. i manipulate my own mind, i'm sure too. but i also spend a lot
of time thinking about what i think, you know, i
don't just accept things like, like the ufo thing. like i was all in for a while and now i'm like, man,
something smells fishy. - [lex] yeah. - and then i'm thinking like, why, here's my problem with the ufo thing. i want it to be real so bad. - [lex] yeah. - that's my problem with
it, i'm such a sucker. i want it to be real so bad, you know? and that's a problem for
me 'cause i'm aware of it. and so then i stop and think about like, what is my desire for
ufo truth to be exposed? well it's 'cause it's fun, you know? that's what it is. so i have a desire for it to be real. - and i mean i've talked to
a bunch of folks about this, so those with connection with dod and they do draw lines between
people that are full of shit and people who are not. there's a lot of people
in the public sphere that they say are full of shit. - [joe] yeah for sure. - and then you have to kind
of tell the difference. - yeah cnn, watch 'em talk. - well, i mean even, yes
that's definitely true. - [joe] everybody knows. - i meant on the ufo topic. - [joe] oh, the ufo topic. - there's certain
individuals that are like, okay, they're just like using this. in fact, like people
who are not full of shit are often very quiet. - [joe] right. - which is why, you know, even bob lazar is an interesting story because he was trying to be
quiet for the longest time. - well he was worried about
his own life according to bob and that's why he went public with it. and initially the first videos
he did with george knapp, they hid his identity. - [lex] yeah, yeah. - and then he felt like that wasn't enough and he really needed to
expose his own identity just to protect his life. which is a great story, you know? so you gotta go, well that seems so juicy, i wanna to buy into it. - [lex] yeah. - and that's where i get nervous. - you don't know who
to trust in this world. - [joe] right, exactly. - how do you figure that out? how do you figure out who
to trust in your life? you're joe rogan, a lot of
people wanna be close to you. cia agents, fsb agents, people that were- - i'm friends with a former
cia agent, mike baker, who's been on my podcast a bunch of times. - allegedly former. - [joe] former. - think about that. - he's air quotes, former. - [lex] yeah. - yeah i don't believe he's former. i'm sure he has some connection to him. i also believe he's a good guy. but i gain a lot of very intelligent and well-informed insights from him as to how things work. and you know, i think,
yeah, i'm sure he doesn't tell me everything about everything, but he's told me enough where i think i can understand things better from talking to him about
how the way, you know, the elves work under the machine. - what about friends? how do you know if you can trust? - [joe] well, most of my
friends are old friends. - time, so time is the thing. - [joe] yeah. - like just going through shit together. - yeah and also people that, you know, first of all comics, like. - you can trust comics? - yeah, comics are pretty trustworthy. the good ones, the really good ones. there's not that many of us. if there's 1000 professional
comics on earth, i'd be stunned, i'd be stunned. i don't even think there's
1000, like real professionals who get booked all the time, headline weekends at clubs
and theaters and arenas. and then there's levels to that, right? there's like the guys who are middle acts who kind of like barely scrape by. and then like, how many
headliners are there? how many like really funny headliners that i would say, you know, if lex you tell me you're
gonna be in cincinnati, "hey, this person's playing at this club, should i go see them?" i'd be like, "ah, you know." like how many people would i
give the recommendation to? and then how many people
sell out theaters? how many people sell out arenas? how many people, there's
not that fuckin' many. so those people, like
at the levels of comedy where you've been doing
standup for 20 years, there's a certain amount of honesty and a certain amount of
understanding of each other that we all have. - oh so that process of
becoming a great comic is like humbling in a way,
like jujitsu is humbling? - yeah, very similar. - like you've eaten so
much shit that somehow, even if you're insane,
even if you're chaotic, even in the way, even if you're
full of shit, you lie a lot, all those kinds of things, underneath it, there's a good human. - [joe] yeah. - you could be surface bullshitter, but on important things,
you're trustworthy. - hopefully, i mean, if you're not, then people shy away from you. and there are people like that too, that are really successful but
that are what i call islands. i've talked to other comics about that. like, you don't wanna be an island 'cause there's these people that aren't attached to
the rest of the community. - [lex] yeah.
- and they're doing well on their own. and usually they have like one opening act they bring with them on the road, they've worked with forever and they don't have comedy friends, those people are miserable
because they can't relate. - sometimes fame in itself is isolating. - [joe] very. - so you have to actually do a lot of work and make sure it doesn't isolate you. - [joe] yes.
- because if you become successful, people
start wanting stuff from you. - [joe] yes.
and then sometimes you wanna push 'em away because of that as opposed to connect with them. - yeah i don't enjoy it when
people want things from me. it's not fun. - [lex] you just ignore it? - yeah, it's fuckin' too heavy. they want too much and it's too much of a
disproportionate relationship. you know, it's too unbalanced. 'cause there are people
where you could tell that they're working towards something, they're working towards an angle. and they want to be close to you because you'll benefit them. and then there's other
people that are just, there's not that many of us. and so we all want to hang out together. like one of the podcasts i love the most is this podcast i do
called, "protect our parks." it's a thing i do with ari shaffir, shane gillis and mark normand. - [lex] yeah it's great. - it's so fun 'cause
we just get obliterated and we talk so much shit. - [lex] yeah.
- like there's conversations after that podcast where i go, "hey man, we gotta cut that part out." - [lex] yeah.
- because like shane will go too far, he'll go too crazy. but we're just making each
other laugh and it's just fun. and it's like, that kind of camaraderie between real comics is
very precious to me. - my favorite part of that is like the non-sequitur
stuff from mark normand and you guys get so trashed that you don't even understand what the hell he's talking about, but it's funny as a listener
'cause he's still on point. that guy's a sharp, he's got kinda mitch hedberg quality wit. - yes, well he's such a
dedicated comic, you know, he loves comedy so much. that's one of the things i love about him. he's like comedy! he gets excited, like he loves it. as does shane and as does ari. - [lex] yeah. - you know, they really love it. and it's, so there's that. like i have friends in that way and i have martial arts friends who are some of the, also the
thing about being humbled, how things like jiu-jitsu will humble you, martial arts friends are, they're also, they know who's been through it, you know? they know who really has
gone through the gauntlet and emerged on the other
end a better person. - well, you said there's very few of us. let's have the goat discussion. you're not gonna pick anybody. but who are the greats of comedy? who's the greatest comic of all time? - well i don't think there is
a greatest comic of all time. - is it norm macdonald? - norm macdonald was one
of the greats, for sure. - but by the way, actually on that topic, what do you think about his, i think as a person who was fascinated by the fear of death and death, i think it was a truly genius thing to release a special after you're dead. - i don't know how that worked. i haven't seen the special, have you? - yeah, it's called i
think, "nothing special." (laughing) - which sounds like
something norm would say. - and it's basically him in front of, i mean, i imagine he wouldn't
have wanted it edited that way because it's made to look nicer than i think he probably
would've preferred it. but it's him in front of the screen, like on a zoom call doing
jokes without laugh cold. - really? - yeah and somehow given
his like dry, dark humor, it works 'cause it's almost
making fun of itself. almost making fun of that hole that we were stuck alone inside. and because he's still acting as if he's in front of the audience and is almost making fun of the fact that this is what we're forced to do. i mean, it's quite genius. it's really well done,
the jokes are really good, but it also makes you realize
how important laughter is from the audience, the energy
from the audience because, but there's also an intimacy because it's just you and him, because you're listening to it. you know, there's no audience. so that's, i don't know. i think it's quite genius. and he's, of course there's
certain comics that are like, not only are they funny, but they're truly unique in like they're not in terms of friendship and all that kind of stuff,
but in terms of comedy, they're an island. - [joe] yeah. - it's like they, you know, mitch hedberg probably is that, of course a lot of people
then start to imitate them and so on, but. - [joe] steven wright. - steven wright, yeah. i mean there's like people,
you know dave chappelle who's like probably one of the greats, he's just like raw funny. - [joe] yeah. - i don't know if he's
an island, he's just raw. - yeah, i know what you're saying. an outlier, unique individual. yeah, he's just great. norm was definitely
unique in his greatness. like there's only one norm, you know, he's got a very specific style. - is there a reason you guys weren't, it doesn't seem like you guys were close. - i mean, i loved him, he was great. i always enjoyed talking to him. we just didn't work together that often, we weren't around each other
that often, that's all it was. but it wasn't like it
was, i loved him though. he was a great guy. i have a funny story about him, norm. twice, just randomly, i was
on airplanes next to him. seated right next to him. just totally random. and one time we're on this airplane and we're having this talk and he's like, "yeah, i quit smoking, i was smoking a lot and i just, it's terrible,
terrible smoking, it's terrible for ya." and we have this great conversation. we get off the plane and
he sprints towards a store and buys cigarettes like in the airport and is lighting it on
the way out the door. and i go, "i thought you quit smoking." and he goes, "yeah, i did. but all that talking about smoking made me wanted a smoke again." (laughing) so before he is getting through
the door of the airport, he's lighting it up, like can't wait. (imitates deep inhale) he can't wait to get
that cigarette in him. he was just so crazy and impulsive and loved to gamble, loved gambling. - and in that way he embodied the joke. - [joe] yeah. - like you can't even tell, 'cause certain people just like live in a non-sequitur ridiculous,
absurd, funny way. - [joe] yeah, that was him, i mean. - nonstop, it was just. - there was nothing artificial about norm, you know, that was who he was. his brilliance was his
essence, that was who he was. you know, but it's, in
terms of like the greats, the godfather of it all is lenny bruce. i mean, i have a bunch of
lenny bruce concert posters at my house and photos that i have framed. and whitney cummings actually gave me this
brilliant photo of him when he got arrested, from one of the times when he got arrested for saying obscene jokes. he was the most important figure
in the early days of comedy because he essentially gave birth to the modern art form of standup comedy. before that it was a bunch of guys that were like hosting shows
and they would tell jokes. they would just like, you know,
two guys walking to a bar, that kind of stuff. and he would talk about
social issues, you know, he would talk about life, he
would talk about language, he would talk about laws. and it was just, he was the very first guy who did modern standup. and what's fascinating, is if you go and you try to watch it, if you try to watch lenny bruce today, it doesn't work because
society has evolved. like in many ways art is a window, especially like pop culture
art or modern, you know, at the time culture art,
art that discusses culture, is a window into that time period. it's a little bit of a time machine. so you have to put yourself like, what was it like to be in 1963? like what was he saying in 1963? what was this like to hear him say this? and the civilization that existed in 1963, although it looked pretty similar, they're all driving cars and
they're all wearing suits and they're all, it seems normal. it's a different world. and the things that he was
saying that are so taboo are so normal today. - [lex] yeah. - that they're not shocking
and it's not that good, it's not that funny. - yeah you have to do the
same kind of stuff for like, d.h. lawrence has a book called, "lady chatterley's lover," and i know it sounds ridiculous, but it was one of the early books, i believe over a century ago that was very controversial
for its sexual content. it's sort of one of the great books because it dared to
actually talk about a woman cheating on her husband. and like and do so in the highest form. and the same thing with gulag archipelago talking about some of the darkest aspects of human history right when
all of that stuff is forbidden, when it's banned. because now it's like not, you know, yes we all know this history,
but when in the middle of it, when you're risking your own life, when you're risking your
book being banned or burned or you being in prison,
that's when it matters, like taking that risk. - yeah and no one took that
risk more than lenny bruce. lenny bruce was arrested many, many times and ultimately it wound
up costing him his life. i mean, he died on the
bathroom floor shooting heroin and trying to cope with all the lawsuits that he was going through. i mean this guy was
constantly being arrested and constantly going through lawsuits. and then his comedy deteriorated horribly. there's some footage of him
towards the end of his career where he essentially would
go on stage with legal papers and read from the legal
papers about his case. from then it's richard pryor, from him, then the next
great is richard pryor and he had the most profound
impact on me when i was a kid. when i was 15 years old, my parents took me to see,
"live at the sunset strip," which is richard pryor's concert film. and i remember very distinctly
being in that audience and laughing and looking around at all the people in the audience who were like falling out of their chairs, just dying laughing, just
swaying back and forth. and i was laughing hard too. and i was like, my god, this guy's doing this just by talking. and i thought of all the
great movies that i'd seen, that i loved, that were
hilarious comedy movies. and i was like, nothing
that i've ever seen is as funny as this and
all he's doing is talking. and that planted a seed in my head for my love of standup comedy and my curiosity about the art form. and that's what got me
interested in, you know, watching it on television and then ultimately
going to open mic nights and then eventually doing it. - i've actually been going
to open mics a lot recently, just listening. - oh, for psychological
examinations of people? - no, it's actually really inspiring to me to see people that, you
know, some are funny, some are not so funny,
unapologetically trying. - [joe] yeah. - putting it all out
there night after night, like eating shit. - [joe] yeah. - my favorite is when, you know, you're talking about like
five people in the audience and the jokes are just not landing. (laughing) and they still, i don't know, it feels like even just empathetically, there's few things as difficult as that. - it's hard, i still remember those days. - [lex] it's inspiring. - many comics will say this and i think dane cook was the first person i heard say it publicly, that if he ever had to
go back and do it again, like from scratch, he
doesn't think he could do it. doesn't think he could endure
the struggle of open mic to you know, ultimately to success. and the numbers of people
that try it and fail versus try and succeed are off the charts. i don't know if there's any other art form that has such a low rate of success. - because it's psychologic, it's torture. - it is torture and it's also
not something you can learn. like here's the thing,
like you play guitar, you can learn to play guitar. someone can teach you the chords and if you do it and you could do, "all along the watch
tower," you could play it. you can't teach someone how to do comedy. - you think it's you're funny or not? or can you still figure it out? like can you still learn? - [joe] yeah, you can figure it out, yeah. - can you start being unfunny
- [joe] yes. - and become funny?
- yes, it's possible. it's not easy though. - you're gonna have to eat a lot of shit. - you're gonna have to eat a lot of shit and you're gonna have to
examine why you're not funny. and you're gonna have
to spend a lot of time with uncomfortable thoughts and try to figure out what
it is, like, what's missing? like, you know, could you edit your stuff and make it better? maybe you need to do drugs. maybe you need to get
involved in psychedelic drugs and rethink the way you
interface with reality itself. maybe you need your heart broken, maybe you need to be in love. maybe, there's a lot of maybes there. like maybe you just need
more life experience. but, you know, when i
started comedy, i was 21 and i was a moron. i had no information. you know, i could do impressions of people and i could talk about sex. - [lex] yeah. - those are the things that i
was interested in back then. i mean, if i was talking philosophically, i didn't have a philosophy, i didn't have a unique
perspective on life, i hadn't experienced much. - so every time you bombed, it forces you to introspect,
to ask questions to yourself and then that's how you
actually develop a philosophy. - [joe] yeah. - of what you actually believe. - you learn through doing. and i think you could say
that about podcasting too. you know, i'm certainly way
better at having conversations than i ever was when i
first started doing comedy, or excuse me, when i first
started doing podcasts. - you just stick with a kid because one day you'll be able
to interview donald trump. you'd be man enough to
handle that conversation. how hard is it to do? 'cause i've been really curious. it's been on my bucket
list because i'm terrified. i wanna do everything i'm terrified of. - you'll do standup? - no, but i do want to do
like one five minute open mic. - why don't you do, "kill tony?" - how hard is it to do,
five minutes, would you say? - it's hard. well, it depends on, you know, how long you've been
thinking about doing comedy. it depends on how you look at things and also depends on your style of comedy. like, the most difficult
style of comedy is like, i think like stephen wright's style is probably the most
difficult style of comedy, complete non sequitors, one subject doesn't lead into the next,
there's no flow to it. it's just, i noticed this, i noticed that. and then there's this,
and then there's that and that's hard to memorize and it's really hard to piece together an hour of non sequitors. - but it's easier because
you can rely on the joke. it sits more with the joke. like, whether you're funny or not is on the actual material
versus like the timing and the energy, the dance
with the audience, right? because like if you
don't have the raw jokes like steven wright does or mitch hedberg, then you have to, it's
all about the delivery. - yeah and yeah, they
either kill or they bomb. - is it random, like? - [joe] whether they kill or bomb? - yeah.
- [joe] well- - in the beginning, i mean. - you're essentially a different person every day of your life. you know, you're similar,
but you're more tired, you're more rested, you're
exhausted, you're refreshed, you have vitamins and food,
nourishment in your system, you just got your heart broken,
you haven't slept in days. you're a different person all the time. and you go onto that stage
you're in the neighborhood of who lex fridman is, you're in the lex fridman neighborhood, which lex friedman am i gonna get? - [lex] yeah.
- you know? - [lex] energy levels.
- yeah. it depends, it all depends. but, oh, the other
thing with, "kill tony," is it's videotaped. - [joe] yes! - so you eating shit. - is on there forever. - [lex] forever.
- the world can see it. - but it's one of the most
important shows in comedy. it's the most important show in comedy because first of all,
it establishes standup in a sense that like,
for the open mic'ers, for the people that are starting it out, it establishes that the most
important thing is to be funny. like, this is what the
art form is all about. and there's a lot of
insecurity attached to that and a lot of fears. and so to alleviate some of
those insecurities and fears, people will decide that the
message is more important. and they'll pretend that, you know, like you have to have, you have to be socially aware that you have to promote things that are positive in your
comedy, which is bullshit. the people that say that, they're all bad, they're all bad at comedy. and that's where the insecurity is. it's like they can't just kill. so they have to pretend that they're supposed to be socially aware and that being socially aware is an important part into society. like, let me explain
something really clearly. there's not a fucking person on earth who's ever changed their
life because of a joke. that's not what they're there for. they're there for jokes. the people that say that, well they say that
socially important comedy is the only comedy that's necessary, the only comedy that you have to do, that is just because they suck. - [lex] yeah. - that is it. it's like the cop out is that
they can't do the real comedy. they can't crush. it's not like someone
goes from being, you know, like shane gillis, one of the best comics up and coming right now,
he's fucking fantastic. i can't recommend enough
seeing that guy live. i work with him in irvine and i hadn't seen like, his
whole set, i was crying. i mean, he's so good. - i heard he's a racist, i haven't listened to any of his material. - he's so good and his comedy is just all just trying to
be as funny as possible. - [lex] yeah. - there's not a chance in hell
that guy's just gonna go woke and he is just gonna start
promoting some sort of, you know, socially conscious agenda
that's, you know, facetious and just a bunch of nonsense that he's trying to elevate
his own personal brand and virtue signal. that's not gonna happen. the thing about, "kill tony," is in that because you only have one minute and because it's live and because you don't
want tony shitting on you, or everybody else shitting on,
everybody's just gearing up to try to be as funny as possible. and no one cares if
you are gay or straight or asian or black or trans or non-binary, nobody gives a fuck. are you funny? if you're funny, you're in
and everybody loves you. you could be 80, you could
be 20, nobody gives a shit. you could be a woman
or a man or ambiguous, nobody fucking cares. are you funny? and that's the most important thing for a community of comedy
to really promote comedy, just funny, just be funny. and so in that sense, "kill tony," is a real cornerstone of comedy. - it's a reminder what
comedy's supposed to be. - [joe] yeah.
- that said, even the funniest, like the funniest stuff has underneath it some
wisdom that comes out of it, but that's not the,
the primary goal of it, like tim dillon's is. - yeah. i mean, it might
be inspiring and fun. oh, tim dylan's a great example of that. yeah i mean, he's got some
amazing insights in his comedy, but it's still, it's fucking comedy. - [lex] it's all about it,
it's all about the funny. - yeah, it's all the funny. he's the best at doing that, especially in a podcast
form about weaving, like really important points
in with hilarious, you know, obviously just, you know, just jokes. - let me ask you, speaking of tim dillon, a chaotic, fucked up individual. can we go to your childhood real quick? a brief stroll. so your mom and dad split
up when you were five. from a younging perspective, if you look at your subconscious, what impact do you think that had on you? informing who you are as
a man, as a human being? - well, at the time i
thought that my father was like a hero. you know, he was my dad. i think every kid thinks
like that about his dad. his dad is like, your
dad's your protector. your dad is like the
coolest guy in the world, that's what you like. - [lex] you like him. - yeah, everybody wants
to be like their dad. especially if your dad is
like an imposing figure. i remember one time me and
my cousin got in a fight, over nothing, it was
like over who's tougher, king kong or godzilla? - yeah, over nothing, that's
an important, but yeah. - [joe] and he's like-
- actual fight? actual fight? - oh, i punched him in the face. - [lex] this is when you were like five? - yeah, yeah and so- - which side were you on? - king kong.
- [lex] okay. - i was wrong, godzilla's like way bigger. (laughing) godzilla's 500 feet tall and he shoots fire out of his mouth. - yeah, are you sure? i mean, there's an argument to be made. it's not all about size, right? - no, there's no argument to be made. 500 feet tall versus 50 feet tall. one's a gigantic dinosaur,
one is a stupid monkey who gets shot down by a plane. - you don't think the
money can ride godzilla? - [joe] you can't kill godzilla. - like, take his back. - no, no, you can't kick
kill godzilla with a plane. (imitates an airplane diving down) like that shit wouldn't work in godzilla. killed king kong. king kong in the new movies, kept growing. - [lex] just get bigger and bigger, yeah. - it got to the point where
he is as big as godzilla. - it just feels like
king kong is stronger. - oh, stop. (laughing) - back take, back take,
immediate back take. you don't think there's a back take? there's a different, - [joe] if he's the same size. - human weapons and
two animals going at it of a different size,
you don't think there's, in the jungle, a smaller animal could take on a bigger animal, like a monkey versus a, let's see, a lion, monkey versus a bear. - what? - [lex] who wins? - a monkey versus a bear? - not a monkey, not a monkey. what's the strongest ape? - [joe] gorilla? - no but gorillas, see okay, gorilla can't do back takes. i'm thinking of like a smaller, (laughing) you know what i'm saying? because in jujitsu you
see this all the time. - do you remember that scene
in, "talladega nights?" do you know, "talladega nights?" - [lex] yeah, yeah, yeah. - where the little boy's
talking to his grandpa, "i'll be all over you
like a spider monkey." (laughing) - [lex] exactly, a spider
monkey, i was thinking. all right, fair enough. - there's some animals, like,
here's a better example. a wolverine, wolverines
chase wolves and bears off of their kills. and they're not very big at all. they're just so ferocious
and they're so durable. like it's very hard to kill a wolverine. - yeah and there's videos of like cats, like not actual like domestic cats or domestic dogs starting
shit with much larger animals. - [joe] yeah. - and if they're ferocious enough. - well pit bulls are a
great example of that. pit bulls are small, like real gamebred pitbulls
are like 35, 45 pounds and they'll kill much larger dogs. - anyway, you were on king kong's side. - [joe] yeah, so, - beating the shit outta your cousin. - i remember he said to me like, i thought it was in like real trouble. 'cause i remember my cousin's
mom was yelling at me and was like, you monster,
all this crazy shit. so my dad got me alone and he
said, "tell me what happened." and i told him, you
know, we got in a fight. we were arguing, over
king kong and godzilla. and i punched him in the face. and he goes, "did you cry?" i go, "no." he goes, "good, don't ever cry." and i remember that like, whoa, okay. and i remember thinking, all right, i'm just gonna
start punching people (laughing) because like obviously my
dad thinks it's a good idea if i go running around punching people, as long as i don't cry. like, i remember certain
things about, you know and also like, this is again, we're talking about watching lenny bruce and getting a timeline of what
the world was like back then, this was a different world. you know, in 1970, this
would've been 1972. it's a different world back then, man. like a really different world. - is some of that, so carl
young talked about the shadow, it's the unconscious
where you have dark stuff and oftentimes you use it to project, there's stuff that you're very
self-critical about yourself. but because it's in your unconscious, you use it to project onto others, you see it as flaws in others. and that's a good way to like, whatever, he gives a quote, like, "everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an
understanding of ourselves." so that's a nice way to
investigate yourself, like something that pisses you off. you start asking
questions of your own mind and that's how you
bring it to the surface. but anyway, from that,
those are formative years. from that time, is there still
stuff in your unconscious, you think you haven't
examined, some dog shit? - i don't think so. i'm not aware if it is
'cause i've looked, you know, like when someone says, you know, i left something over your house. like, where'd you leave it? i don't know, like, all
right, i'll go look. - [lex] yeah. - i'll get a real thorough look. - [lex] but i'm pretty sure. - pretty sure it's not there. - [lex] yeah.
- yeah, i don't know, i think i've looked. i mean it certainly had, i
think the positive effect also was compounded by the fact that when my mother married my stepdad, who's a great guy, he was
a hippie, very different, we moved around a lot. and so the bad thing about that was i didn't really
develop long-term friends. the good thing about that, was that i was forced to develop my own opinions about things. instead of adopting an
opinion of the neighborhood and the group about anything, i was forced to form my
own thoughts and opinions about almost everything. and so it made me much more
of an independent thinker. so that on top of the fact that, you know, losing, you know, my quote
unquote hero very early on and then having to form my
own opinions about things, it left me with a very, very
independent streak, you know, in terms of and if i hadn't done the things that i got interested in, martial arts and then comedy, if i hadn't gotten
interested in those things, i would've been fucked. 'cause i was just too
independent for normal jobs. i was too independent for school, i just didn't wanna listen to people. i was too feral, i just didn't want to, didn't wanna sit still. if i was with the wrong
parents, especially today, i most certainly would've been medicated. - [lex] yeah there's so
many possible trajectories you can imagine, where
you would've not been the person you are today. - [joe] oh yeah. - this is probably one
of the best possible. you're living this particular storyline you're living through, was
one of the better ones. - this timeline's as good as
it gets for someone like me. (laughing) - is there advice you can give to people, to young kids that are living
through a shitty situation of any sort, a tough life. - find a thing you like, try to find a thing that you really enjoy, try to find a thing that
you're passionate about. - [lex] like an activity? - yes, for me, early on it was drawing, it was illustrations, it was comic books, i wanted to be a comic book illustrator. and then it went from comic book drawing and illustrations to martial arts. so, but it was just another thing that i was very, very passionate about. and that was my vehicle out of my dilemma. that was my vehicle out of
my own anxiety and trauma and my own issues and insecurities. and find something, find a
thing that you genuinely enjoy because getting good at
things you genuinely enjoy is extremely beneficial for young people because it lets you know that like everybody
thinks they're a loser. every young person thinks they're a loser, at least a young person
in the situation i was at. like i didn't know i wasn't a
loser until i started winning. until i started doing martial arts. martial arts taught me that like, i could get better at stuff,
i wasn't really a loser, i just was someone who was
like in a fucked up situation. but you could channel all that energy that you have as a young
person into something and get better at it. and then all of a sudden
people admired me. i was like, this is crazy. so i went from being someone
who was incredibly insecure and basically a failure to someone who was really
successful at this one thing that was very dangerous, that
other people were scared of. and that gave me immense confidence and also a real understanding of the direct correlation
between hard work and success. - and kind of understanding
that you're not a loser. - [joe] right. - that there is some diamond in the rough. - yeah and also an understanding that you can't listen to people. 'cause even my parents didn't
want me to do martial arts. they didn't want me to fight, they didn't want me to do standup. there's like, you have to
understand who you are. and then in the face of other people's, either criticism or
you know, lack of faith in your ability to
succeed, you push through and there's great benefit in that. and then you realize that
you can kind of apply that to other things in life. you can apply that to critics, you can apply that to
social media commentators, you can apply that to a lot of things. - okay, what about young
people in their 50's? can you give advice to, like, imagine you're sitting back
probably still here in texas, in your 90's looking back, what advice would that
guy give to you today? or like people, you know, people that have done
some shit, in their 50's, you've gone through a hell of a life, there's potentially some
incentive to settle down. you got a great family to relax, but maybe there's some
incentive to still do epic shit, still be david goggins running
in the middle of the desert, screaming shit into a camera. - if you're david goggins,
you have to be david goggins. i don't think there's a path for that guy that exists at this stage
of his life other than that. - do you think he'll be
70 and still screaming? - yes.
- okay. - 100%, 100%. (laughing) if david and i are alive, we're both 70, he's gonna call me up and
say, "stay hard motherfucker!" guaranteed, guaranteed. - so lean into whatever the
fuck you are at this point. - well, if you are enjoying it, but if you're not enjoying
it, rethink your life. try to figure out why
you're not enjoying it. - you still think it's possible to shift things in your 50's? - yeah, if you're alive,
you can get better. - [lex] no matter what. - yeah, no matter what, if you're alive, you can shift things. i mean, if you're 90 years old and you know you have a month to live, you could apologize for the
things you think you did wrong and maybe sort of reconcile and shape relationships that you have with the people that are around you better so that they feel differently
about you after you're gone. - yeah, i always love people in their 70's who are like, getting back into dating or something like that. - yeah, i was watching a video about a woman who's in her 60's who just started power lifting. - [lex] nice.
- yeah. - and same with jiu-jitsu, you see people get into jiu-jitsu. - yeah.
- like white belt that's like 70. - yeah, yeah, yeah. there's a lot of, if you're alive, you can get better at stuff. and i don't think people are happy if they don't have
puzzles and complex tasks and things that are interesting to them. whether it's an art project or whether it's learning
something completely new like standup comedy. like doing things that are difficult, it's as much of a nourishment of the mind as food is a nourishment of the body. i think you need things
that are puzzling to you, where you have to find
your own human potential in the difficulty of the task and work your way through things. at least for me. for me, i mean i can only speak for me 'cause i'm the only life
that i've ever lived that i'm aware of. and in my life, that
has been 100% constant. i am a very happy person and i have never had a moment where i'm not doing difficult shit. - [lex] yeah.
- ever. - what matters most is how well
you walk through the fires, you just keep starting fires
for yourself to walk through. - well they don't necessarily
have to be fires, right? because fires are like
kind of outta control. - lukewarm, the surfaces.
- [joe] tasks. tasks, give yourself
something, an arduous, difficult task where you're challenged, challenged mentally and
challenged physically. and one of the great things about being challenged
physically, is it's also mental. the people that don't understand that have never really been
challenged physically. people that think that physical challenges are just like, just physical,
it's just brute grunt work. it's not, it's emotional intelligence. it's understanding your desire to quit and you know, conquering your inner bitch. all that stuff is, it's mental. it's playing out inside your head. and there's a mental strength
that you acquire from that that you can apply to
intellectual pursuits and the people that don't think that are the people that
haven't attempted them. and there's an arrogance to people that only pursue intellectual exercises, only pursue intellectual things and don't pursue anything physical. that the physical stuff is base, it's grunt work, it's
primal, it's not necessary. i don't think that's accurate. i don't think that they're, look, i mean, obviously these people
like stephen hawking, who have no opportunity to
do anything physical, right? his physical dilemma is keeping his, or was keeping his heart beating. but for most people, i
think you can really benefit from physical struggle
and you benefit from it in a mental way. and i think that is overlooked, that's unfortunately
overlooked by academics and intellectuals who they make excuses for why they're fat and lazy or scrawny. - well, they don't need to be, it's not even about
the fat or all of that. it's like literally there's something about
the physical challenge that's really good for you,
especially if you're academic. especially if you do
intellectual type stuff. there's this great roboticist
at mit, russ tedrake, he runs barefoot two
and from mit everyday. - [joe] i love it. - like seven to 10 miles each way. - [joe] barefoot?
- barefoot. well he studies legged
locomotion, legged robots. - [joe] yeah.
- so for him, it's also interesting,
how the human body moves. he sees the beauty in all movement - what do his feet look like? - [lex] you know, calloused. - destroyed, right? - no, just calloused. they're nice, they form a nice- - [joe] they're nice? - it's not like i gave him a foot massage, (laughing) but i mean they look and i
don't have a foot fetish, so i don't, i'm not able
to correctly evaluate another man's feet, i apologize for this, but they don't look fucked up. - does he run on concrete? - [lex] yeah, he runs all surfaces. - and he does everything
completely barefoot? - the running part, at work. so one of the things he has to do is fit into society, which
means he has to change clothes and appear normal. - right, so does he wear like zero shoes? you know those
- [lex] no, he's not. - barefoot type shoes? - no, because that's like very
hippy, wokey type of thing. no, like he doesn't, he's
barefoot when he's running and then he wears like
normal looking stuff, like dress shoes. - how did he work his way
up to running barefoot? - so he was significantly overweight and his advisor, this
other famous person at mit, who was a roboticist, took his own life and that made him, that made russ face his own mortality, i think. i mean, you start to ask big
questions about your wellbeing. like, holy shit this ride
can end at any moment. and so he started taking his sort of physical wellbeing seriously, but as a result of that, not
that he'd become like shredded, but he's also discovered
the intellectual value, the humbling value of physical exercise. yeah, so he's not preachy about it all. i don't think, i actually rarely hear him advise it to anyone. he just does it as a,
almost like meditation or something like that. - it's definitely a form of meditation and you can attest to that, right? you do quite a bit of running. there's a thing about
(imitates heavy breathing) you kind of almost like
a mantra gets formed and you get into it. - no, it's great here in the austin heat, 100 degree weather. - [joe] yeah.
- that tests you. - you know what i love to do outside? - [lex] what's that? pull sleds, that's my thing. i love to pull sleds outside. - in the heat? - yeah, i did today. - [lex] yeah, yeah.
- yeah i love it. - so you're also, your wife is incredible. you're in a relationship, you're married, you have a great family. what advice would you give
to me and to others like me, who are dumb fucks and have
not found a relationship. - well you're a great guy, so this definitely doesn't
necessarily apply to you, but be someone who someone would want to be in a relationship with. there's a lot of people out
there that want a great partner. they want someone in a relationship. but why would someone want to
be in a relationship with you? you know, maybe you bicker a lot, maybe you're jealous, maybe you lie. maybe you, you know, maybe you're cruel, maybe you don't have a sense of humor. maybe you're, you know, you're not kind. like what is? what is it about you that people would not enjoy being around or that people avoid? fix that, fix that. - well this applies to me as well, like you said something with cam hanes, one of the things you admire is the, the discipline takes to sort
of juggle so many things and do it successfully. i'm not sure i'm very good at that. - so juggling all this hard work and then also a relationship. - also a relationship, also family, all these kinds of priorities. i mean that requires
having your shit together. - it does, it's a different thing. but it's also, you gotta
find the right person. there's a lot of people
who they settle for sexy, they settle for hot. - [lex] oh for looks. - they settle for the wrong person. like you can get hot and
nice, they're out there. - [lex] yeah. - but don't get hot and
mean, hot and mean's not fun. then you get amber heard. - yeah and then you end up at trial. - yeah, yeah, you can be
deceived by perfect symmetry. - so you don't think it's a good idea to record your partner? - i think you should
record all conversations. the cia's doing it no matter what. i assume that every
conversation i have is recorded 'cause i'm pretty sure it is. - even when we had dinner with
alex jones, he was recording. - [joe] yes.
- i still remember that. (laughing) - oh, i didn't even
know that was recording. - you know what'd be funny? if he is the cia. - [joe] he could be, could be. - that'd be the ultimate joke. - but that's my advice
about relationships, is be somebody and then
also like find someone who you can grow with, right? you don't want to be with someone who doesn't share your values. you don't wanna be with
someone who makes excuses, you don't wanna be with someone who's lazy or who's spiteful. you wanna be with someone
who's like, genuinely kind. and that's one of the things that i really love about my wife. and she's very smart and she works hard. she's like, she's a
dedicated, disciplined person, but she's also really nice. that's what one of the things
i like the most about her. she's so nice, she's always smiling. - and that energy is great. - [joe] yeah, i mean,
you've seen us together. - yeah. - you've hung around with us, she's fun. - yeah. - she's a lot of fun. - yeah, she makes you just
feel great to be alive. - [joe] yeah! - it's good to have people
like that around you. - she's happy, she's a happy person, she's happy to be around. that's the kind of people that you could have in
your life as friends and as coworkers and as
lovers and wives and husbands, you can find those people, they're real. and when you find those
people, your life is better. like to have a good
tribe is very important, to have a good tribe of people, you know? and i think if there's anything that i'm very, very fortunate about, it's the people that i'm around. i have very good friends
and one of which is you. it's so valuable to have
quality people around you because it makes you want to do better because you admire the hard work that these put people put in, like cam hanes or goggins or many of my friends and
people that are generous and people that are curious
and people that are honest, they inspire you to do the same
and it's extremely valuable. it's one of the most valuable things, is to surround yourself
with positive, healthy, friendly, generous people. - that's why i cut out
tim dillon from my life. - [joe] ah!
- i broke up with him. - [joe] i thought you
guys were getting married? - no, it's over. it's none of those things. the toxic, the nonstop
conspiracy theories, the nonstop mocking of my
eastern european origins, (laughing) it's just not healthy for me. plus he's physically abusive
and a towering figure, both emotionally, - he's a big boy. - physically. no, no, i love him. - if he worked out, he would be a house. - he's got such a large frame
- [lex] brick house. - you know? - so if i interview putin,
what should i ask him? - how's the cancer? how's it doing, buddy? that's question number one in russian. do you think he has cancer? - i don't think so. - the narrative is terrifying, right? dictator of the largest
nuclear arsenal in the world who also has cancer and he just
invaded a sovereign country. that's a terrifying narrative because that's what we're all afraid of, someone who has nothing to lose, who just decides to let loose a nuke. - well i do think, maybe it's projecting, but if i had cancer or if you think about
leaders that have cancer, you are facing your own mortality. i would think he'll be
more focused on his legacy and dropping nuclear bombs
is not good for legacy. i do believe he wants to be
remembered as a great leader, as a lot of leaders do, as
a lot of even dictators do. and i think he wants to figure out a way to pull out a win so he can say that whatever this thing was,
whatever this invasion was, was good for russia,
was good for the nation. he ultimately made it a greater
nation than it was before. and perhaps you could justify an escalation of war to be that. but i don't and it's just the cancer thing concerns me so much
because it's been so often part of this propaganda
that's been told about putin that he's sick.
- [joe] right. - i don't know why, people
kind of wonder that a lot about, especially dictators. but you had that even
like with hillary clinton and obviously with biden,
that narrative is stickier. so for some people. - well that narrative is transparent. - [lex] yeah.
- [joe] and obvious. - but the degree of it,
is a question with biden as it is with everyone. like, how healthy is this leader? that's a question people often ask. - right, sure always. they were doing that about trump too. the thing about putin though is like, his appearance is altered,
where he looks very bloated. his body doesn't look much bigger, but his face looks like puffy and swollen. i had a friend who had sarcoidosis and they prescribed prednisone, which is a type of a steroid. and one of the things that
would happen when he was on it is his face would get really big. it was like he would
blow up, like swell up and maintain a lot of
water and inflammation. and that's what it looks like
when i'm looking at putin. - so actually like if
you're sitting with him, questions about health that's, has biden been asked
that kind of question? no, like without mockery, without. - he'd have to go on fox news. like, the mainstream media treats him with kid gloves in
a way that i've never seen. i mean it's so obvious, there's
something horribly wrong with his cognitive function. - well, to push back, i don't
know if it's horribly wrong. - [joe] you don't think
it's horribly wrong? - i think it's, no, i
think there's uncertainty to which degree is wrong. i would love there to be a
serious like conversation about it with him.
- [joe] yeah. - in fact, i actually have to now look 'cause of course fox news will mock his like declining mental health and then i would love like sort
of an objective discussion. are you aware of this? are you like, what are
you putting in place? are you yourself? because if i was a person with
a declining mental abilities, like you have to start thinking
about that kind of stuff. like who is around you? who are the advisors? what if you stop being able
to see the world clearly? - [joe] yeah. - i would be transparent
about that kind of stuff. - well you would be, but you also would never be a politician. - [lex] yeah. - 'cause you're too fuckin' honest. - well, yeah, but actually from
a conversation perspective, it would be nice if that
kind of discussion was had. - it would be. but all jokes aside with putin, i would ask questions about
democracy versus what they have. i mean, without any
disparaging descriptions of what is going on over in russia, it's clearly not a democracy. i mean the way he has it set
up, the elections are a joke. - so he would push back, that's
not clearly not a democracy. he is still very popular,
so majority of people are huge supporters of
putin inside russia, the people that push back against that would say that that's because
any serious opposition is pushed out of the country. - [joe] yeah. - so like his competition.
- arrested, murdered. - yeah so, but yes, that's a
really, really good question. - the value of dictatorships. one of the things about the united states that's fascinating to me
is that every four years, unless it's four to eight years, right? someone does two terms. but every four years
there's an opportunity for someone to be new and
completely inexperienced at the most difficult job in the world, which is ridiculous. - so the the interesting thing is it actually makes sense after eight years, you've gained the wisdom. - [joe] yeah. - you would actually be a pretty
good leader to keep going. - [joe] yeah. - but there is some problem where the power gets started
getting to your head. - [joe] yeah. - and so like from putin's perspective, i think he genuinely
wants the best for russia. i don't think he's lost
his mind in terms of like, it's all about greed and so on. same as stalin. i think stalin until the end of his days wanted the best for the soviet union. so it's not like you become, hitler i think lost his
mind during the war. like where it was like he
wasn't seen clearly at all. what putin believes is that
he is actually the best person to bring out the best for his country. now the problem is, maybe
refreshing the leader is in fact in the long
term, the best thing. versus every leader believes they know what's best for the country. our point is to keep refreshing it. - [joe] well. - and that's the case for democracy, that's the case for the system we have, that creates natural, maybe
emergent balance of power. - i think it makes it evident that there is no clear cut,
real right way to do it. and that if you had the perfect person in, having them for 12, 20
years would be amazing. if you had a perfect benevolent leader who clearly only cared about the people and was doing their best and striving hard and got great satisfaction knowing that he is a
dedicated civil servant that only wants to lead
the country in a way that's gonna benefit the most people in the most profound way. but we have a dirty political system. it's completely corrupted by money, completely corrupted by influence. the fact that, you know, the lobbyists, i mean there's an area
outside of washington, dc, it's one of the richest
areas in the country and it's where the lobbyists live. there's so much money
involved in being a lobbyist. there's so much money involved
in special interest groups and how much of an impact
they have on who gets elected and what decisions get made
once that person gets elected. we know this, right? we know it's not for the
people, by the people. it's just not what it is. i mean, this country is an
experiment in self-government. and if we could do it all over again, i would say the most important thing is to have laws in place to
keep money out of politics and to make it a heinous crime for someone to influence laws and policy based entirely on the amount of profit it could generate for a
party or for a company that is investing in a candidate. that's fuckin' incredibly
dangerous and it's corrupt and that corruption has been accepted. we've just accepted, that this
corruption exists, you know? - last question. if putin asks to see this
watch, what do i tell him? well, would you give it? should i let him see it? 'cause we know what happens
with a super bowl ring. - i think a super bowl ring is unique. he could buy a watch like
that, pretty easy, you know? - but this particular,
isn't that a power move? - [joe] yeah. - this is the watch you gave me. - [joe] yes.
- there's a story. - [joe] yes.
i would probably share it with him, the story. - and then maybe he'd go,
"look, can i see this watch?" - [lex] yeah. - and then he puts it on
and says, "thank you." - [lex] do you say no, do you say no? - you go like this, yeah there it is bro. (laughing) - bro, you know, takes so many words, i'm gonna have to find
translations, buddy, bro, i guess bro is brother. - i mean, if he takes your
watch, i'll buy you another one. if putin steals it. - keep him going. - i'll just give you
the same, exact watch. - well first of all, thank you for this. - [joe] my pleasure brother. - i really wanted to talk to you 'cause in a couple of days i'm leaving to ukraine and russia and i hope i'll be back in one piece and drink whiskey with you once again. - yeah, i hope so too. i'm nervous about you
going over there, you know. i know journalists have been killed now. - but they don't know jiu-jitsu. - [joe] ah. - no, i think it'll be okay. and i think there's certain
things you do in life that just kind of, your heart
pulls towards that so much. - what's your objective over there? - i'm not somebody who thinks
about objectives clearly. it's just something about
me says i need to go there. but to put in loose words is, to try to understand
what that world is now. so i remember what it was
years ago when i was there. i know my family, i know
the generations of family that was there on that land
in ukraine and in russia and the soul of the people,
the love that's there, the beauty of the culture. and i wanna see what it is today and what this war has created. both the anger and the love and the people and just hear them out
and just talk to them. no recordings, none of that. maybe a little here and
there, but mostly just for me. yeah a to see, i don't know
this sometimes it's just, it something pulls you to a place. and i also, because i'm
able to speak russian and some ukrainian, i do
want to try to have these, a couple of the political
leaders involved, talk to them and i have
all the right connections. everybody has said yes, of course you don't know the
likelihood it finally happens, but i want to at least have
that possibility there. you sometimes you have to go to a place to really understand it, you
can't just read about it, you can't just talk to the
people that are living there, you have to be there. and i've never been in a war zone. i've never been in a
land that's been damaged and wiped by the weapons of war. and i just wanted to feel that because so much of that land
is, i remember, you know, i remember when everything
was flourishing. yes corruption, all those kinds of things. but people were there and
the culture was flourishing and people were happy. there was lots of struggle
but they were happy. and now people are extremely angry. there's hate in the air on all sides. i wanna see that, i wanna understand. sometimes it just pulls
you and you have to go. so it doesn't make any sense perhaps, but you just gotta do it. - what's the timeline? - [lex] of when i'm going? - how long? - no, one way, i don't really have a plan. - [joe] really, wow. - yeah, so i'm hoping back in a month, but also not, just to clarify, i'm not somebody who seeks risk and like you're somebody who seems to be terrified of bears and sharks. so you don't like, so why go swim out? why go surfing? why go swim out in the ocean? - [joe] yeah. - so i'm somebody that's the
same probably with sharks too. i'm not taking unnecessary risk, but certain things that
just mean a lot to you, you take the risk. and so a little bit of
risk, willing to take to discover something
about myself honestly, is probably what it all boils down to, trying to understand myself. 'cause so much of me, is from that place, this is the beautiful thing about america, is it's like stitches together, all these different cultures, everybody came from somewhere else. - [joe] yeah. - and you try to understand, in order for me to be a good american, i need to understand who
i was, where i came from. nothing reveals the spirit of a people better than war. it's like there's something
about this conflict that's really cuts all the bullshit. this is who we are, this
is who we are as a people. so i wanna see it, i wanna understand and like i said, i wanna come back, drink some whiskey with you. - all right well, i hope
that happens, i really do. and i hope you're safe over there and i hope you come back with whatever insight
you're trying to achieve. - thank you for doing this conversation. - [joe] my pleasure, brother. - thank you for everything
you've done for me, for the support, for the love
and everybody around you. thank you for everything you're doing for everybody around you for,
for giving, for giving back, but for just giving and
being kind to everybody. i love you brother. - i love you too, thank you. - thanks for listening to this conversation with joe rogan. to support this podcast,
please check out our sponsors in the description. and now let me leave you with one of joe's and one of my favorite
quotes from miyamoto musashi, "once you know the way broadly, you'll see it in everything." thank you for listening and
hope to see you next time.