- are you trying to tell
me that $120 mp3 player is on the amazon bestselling
electronics list? i have purchased a large number of the bestselling amazon electronics to determine are they a scam? are people absolutely losing their minds? or are some of the stuff actually good? so we're gonna start out
with the mighty vibe, a $120 mp3 player. all right, let's see what we got. so, oh my god. wait,
wait, wait. is this... oh! it's way smaller than i thought! so it's, oh, okay. this makes
a little bit more sense. so it's more like an ipod shuffle. so it has the little clip
on it so you can like, i don't know, clip it to your arm, and go work out or something. oh my god, it really is
like an ipod shuffle. it charges via the aux! okay, i think i get it. i think i understand this product now. can i just go back to the
idea that this is $120? i think the ipod shuffle
used to be what? 60 bucks? download the mighty audio
app, follow the setup guide, and then leave your phone
and the distractions behind. i don't know if i like this. this does kind of feel like a problem in search of a solution. wait, no, a solution
in search of a problem. so i'm gonna guess that what happens here is now that i've synced my mighty account and my spotify account,
inside the mighty app, i can find spotify music
and sync it to the mighty? this is a lot of work for
not having to use your phone and a lot of steps you need your phone for to not use your phone. it's trying to sync, but it is just, it's just pinwheeling. so maybe it's just gotta
do its initial setup. i'm gonna plug and unplug
it and see if that works. this is a very bad setup
experience right now. press it. okay. hey, press the button. oh, oh my god, it finally worked! okay, whatever. 10 minutes later, we've
got it up and running. okay, so i'm now syncing
15 songs on a soundtrack. okay, so we're just gonna
give it a second, okay. we're still zero percent. mind you, i'm only copying
15 songs right now. this is like comically bad. we're gonna listen to three songs, 'cause i'm tired of waiting. okay, it's time, my friends.
phone? who needs a phone? i got my mighty! i plugged my headphones in and
guess what it gives me now? - [speaker] spotify login failed. connect your mighty to app and wi-fi. - oh it works now! it just told me it needs, urgh! who needs a phone? not me. i got my music on the
go, like it's 2005 again! huge shout out to anker
for sponsoring this video. i've been a big fan of their
ganprime chargers for a while. so when they announced
the next-gen anker prime, i was all about it. from phones, tablets and laptops. you can rely on anker's
universal compatibility to charge just about anything. with the anker prime
240-watt gan desktop charger, you can charge a macbook
pro from zero to 50% in just 30 minutes. what makes the desktop charger special is that you can simultaneously
charge two macbook pros at almost full throttle. basically this thing is a beast. what if you don't wanna be
tethered to a wall socket? anker has you covered with
the anker prime power banks, ranging all the way up
to 27,650 milliamp hours, which can output 250 watts. that's right, 250 watts. you can fast charge multiple
laptops when you're on the go. i personally love it when i'm
out and about with the family and need to charge everyone's stuff. people tend to get a little grumpy when they got some dead batteries. not with this guy. anker doesn't stop there though. the anker prime power bank
also has a charging base for quick and wireless charging. and there's also an app
that can help you locate the power banks and check power levels. definitely be sure to go check
out the anker prime lineup at the link in the description. next up we have the
vilva portable monitor. so this is a amazon's choice and bestselling for a laptop monitor. this only costs us $68. now it's a little bit
more expensive today. i looked at it, it's 80 bucks. but still very reasonably
priced for an external display that you can connect to your macbook, your laptop or whatever the case is. so it does give us a fairly extensive what's in the box list, including a smart cover,
usb-c, mini display, mini hdmi, power adapter. inside, we've got a portable monitor. well it's, i'll say it's nicely packed. oh, wait a minute, hold on a second. full function type c,
for power, video, audio and touch signal. that's a legit feature. why
would you not advertise that? i had no idea. oh dude, this is actually, okay, so it comes with this
nice little carrying case which also i assume folds down. yeah, so you can actually
turn it into the stand. oh, oh look at this. they'll give you one accessory
for free if you contact them. and i assume you also give them a very positive amazon review. i'm onto you guys. so we've got a mini hdmi,
which is annoying but fair. we've got two usb type cs. and on this side we have the other usb-c, which is for input. so we could connect a
mouse or keyboard there. you've also got a headphone
jack, like this is, this is actually really good. while i'm impressed with this
product and it seems nice, i do detect some shenanigans. there's a lot of very,
very positive reviews. like almost exclusively
very positive reviews. but take it with a grain of salt. we're not out here making
fun of amazon reviews. we're out here to actually
see if this thing works. oh my god, it literally just, i mean i don't know why i'm so surprised. it literally just works. so it is taking power from the macbook. so the macbook over the
single usb-c is powering it as well as getting the video signal. at full brightness, i'd say
that's actually not bad. so it's actually a little too
bright probably for cameras. so i'm gonna turn that down a little bit. so it does give you the
option to turn on hdr for the second display. which i turned it on. that is.. technically yes, that is hdr. but it just killed the brightness. i'm not, okay, so yes, it
supports the hdr signal. you should not use that,
but that's totally fine. again, we're talking about
a super cheap monitor here. the, oh you know what i should do? let me try plugging in the monitor and see if the macbook will
go from charging this display or not charging, but powering the display, to instead charging my macbook. 'cause theoretically that will work. so it is taking 40, so it's
passing 45 watts through. now mind you, i'm connected
to a 65-watt adapter. dude, this thing is legit! okay, so we're 50-50 so far, okay? let's see what else amazon's got for us. this next one is a strange one. so under bestsellers for indiegogo, this is a mug with a hoop. i don't know what we have purchased. hi, my name is max, and
i create my first mug. the mug with a hoop in art class
when i was eight years old. oh, that's adorable. boy, we're just going on a
journey today, aren't we? we're going from terrible
stuff to awesome stuff to not tech at all. oh, that's way bigger than
i thought it was gonna be! look at this size. this is not a mug. this is a bowl, man! oh, it's actually really cute though. so we were gonna throw
marshmallows in here because we thought it was funny. then we realized that the
only marshmallows we have are the tiny marshmallows
and hot cocoa mix. so i'm about to make a mess. yeah, it's zero for one. zero for two. okay, one for three. - [announcer] 250!
- [announcer 1] kobe! - and this is cute. is it worth 30 bucks? man, if you wanna go play with your food, it's actually nicely made. how this is a bestseller for indiegogo, i'm not entirely sure. but you know what? next up, we have the bestselling
game console on amazon. now when i say that, what do you think the
bestselling game console is? well, if you said the nintendo
switch, you'd be right! and no, not the switch
oled or the switch lite. no, this is the original nintendo switch. technically it's the red box model. but the fact that this is
still the best selling console six years later is strange to me. especially because this is
only like 10 bucks cheaper than it was when it was new. it's like 288 bucks or
something right now. if you wanna know my
thoughts on the switch, i've done about 100 videos on it. but the switch is an
excellent console to pair with the bestselling headset! so this is a $22 headset with, and i can't believe that
they are this brazen. over 100,000 reviews! on this! dude, my expectations are so low. i've tried so many of these headsets and they all don't sound
good and they feel so cheap. wait a minute, okay, well hold on. that... yeah, it's very bendy, but the flexibleness actually doesn't feel like it's
gonna immediately break. - [joanna] you mean flexibility? - the flexibility to, the
flum, flum-ux, the flexible. i should put it on and see. feels like it needs like a
little bit more pressure in. like it feels like it's loose
on the bottom of my ears. the big problem here though, is you need to plug it in via usb to actually get the lights to turn on. and if i'm using
something like the switch, i'm not doing that. or if you're plugging into a ps4 or almost any device that's
not basically your pc. so i think, if i just plug this into
power, it should light up. do i look like a gamer now? - [alex] yeah, you look like you should
be chugging red bulls and streaming. - all right, to properly judge this, let me actually try to play a game and see how it sounds like. so strange is. mind you, i'm plugged
into the switch right now. it's very quiet. like much, much quieter
than i would prefer. but it's not bad. it seems a little too convenient
for a random $20 headset on amazon to have that many reviews. i still call some shenanigans. but you could do worse for 22 bucks. like this is totally fine. next up we have number
one in amazon renewed, which is strangely an iphone 11. not only is this the number
one bestselling amazon renewed, it's also one of the
bestselling smartphones on amazon, period. and when you consider that
this iphone 11 cost us $300, if it's in okay shape, it's not bad. iphone 11, it's a little
on the older side, but it's still totally supported by ios. you'll still probably get
a couple years of updates. apple iphone 11, so 64
gigabytes fully unlocked, black. it says 96%, which i'm gonna
assume is the battery capacity. oh no, sounds like amazon renewed to me. all right, all right. so this is also advertised
as excellent condition, aka, the absolute
highest, which we'll see. what we found in the past
buying amazon renewed, it is either you get something great or is massively scuffed. thank you for shopping with us. did you have a great experience?
give us a five-star review. did you not have a fun
time? call us immediately. let's take off the
screen protector and see. okay, that's significantly way worse. oh my god, they are absolutely
out of their damn minds that they think this is excellent. a little bit of this is coming off. but there are scratches all over this. and if you look closely, there are hairline scratches
absolutely everywhere. the frame is fine. everything else seems
like it's in good shape. it is just the screen, which obviously, the most important part. oof. okay, well. put
that over for a second. oh, okay, 97. okay, so you know what? the battery actually is pretty decent. one of my number one concerns
with buying a used phone is the battery. and honestly, for a device that's what? three years old at this point?
97% is actually pretty good. the cameras on the iphone 11
do hold up fairly well today. again, 300 bucks is not a lot of money for a device like this. if this was sold as like
acceptable condition and was like 50 bucks
cheaper, that screen is fine. but you cannot tell me that this is an excellent quality device when you have scratches on
the screen that are that deep. when i see a product with
over 250,000 reviews, my expectations are quite high. and that, my friends, is
what you get with this. these are the tozo t6s for $21. these are fully wireless
earbuds that are... well, apparently upgraded for 2023. but also massively,
massively popular on amazon. so the fact this is either
a 2022 or 2023 upgrade, could mean that people reviewed
a much older version of this or a completely different
version of the headphones. which is one of the things that i wish amazon would
crack down a little bit because there's so many
sellers who will say like, oh they have one popular item and they'll have like variants. and the variants will be like
a completely different thing that they put there just
to get in front of you and to keep those sweet reviews. but 251,000 people
couldn't be wrong, right? the people have never made a bad decision. i don't trust any of you. - emotional damage! - high stereo sound
quality, ipx8 waterproof, faster wireless charging
and smart touch control. so a little bit of a chunky case. it does have a little
led indicator up here. and they also have, i guess, speaking to their waterproof nature, a little cover over the usb. oh my god, it's micro usb. oh, good lord, how is it
the 2022 or 2023 model if they're giving you micro usb? they're very glossy. but, and they have like
a decent weight to them. they're a little bit of
an interesting design. so they're kind of like long. so you see like the sort of the core, i wonder how they're actually gonna fit. 'cause that's like a very
extended little stem. so the whole thing fires up
and they're in pairing mode. okay, so that is a plus.
that's pretty easy. let's pair it with our new iphone 11. i'll say i wanna listen to this and be done with these quickly, 'cause they're really not
comfortable in my ears. like i don't know what 250,000
people are raving about, unless they've got some big ass ears. which if you do, no offense. but i don't usually have this problem. so this is a demo of what the microphone on the tozo t6s sound like. it's okay. i mean, 20
bucks, you can't complain. but that's definitely not good.
let's listen to some music. i don't get it, man. this is not, tozo is not it. 250,000 people are in fact, wrong. this is the logitech f310. and if it looks a little old, that's because this
first came out in 2010. and yet, when you go on amazon
and you want a controller, well, technically, the top listing is the
amazon luna controller. but i think they're lying. so the actual real
controller is this f310. it only cost $15. what you'll need? windows
eight, seven, or windows vista. as we all know, i only buy game controllers
that are compatible with windows vista. if it doesn't work with
vista, i politely decline. so this, my friends, is the f310. it's like such a tight grip. like my hands are, my fingers
basically touch in the middle. it's also like the plastic
is not ultra cheap, but it's very slippery. i feel like i get a little sweat going. and man, this is not gonna stick around. you got yourself a start,
a stop, and a mode. and you can press the logitech button, which i assume doubles as the xbox button. all right, let's hop into a
game of forza horizon 5 and see how this controller is. i actually say i don't love the sticks as much as i thought i would. they're almost like too loose. like there's not a lot of
resistance with the sticks. it's not bad. you could probably get a
worse controller for 15 bucks. okay, well that doesn't fill
me with a lot of confidence. this is the best-selling
gaming mouse on amazon. the logitech g 502 hero. this has got a lot of
nice features for only 40, i think, seven, or $48 right now. i'll say though, i mean i know it's just
the plastic on the inside, but this is though, i know an incredibly popular mouse. it's something like almost
50,000 reviews on amazon, which again, for like a regular non-fake
reviewed product, is a lot. but logitech have also
been selling the g 502 for a little bit. this is certainly not a new product. all right, so we've got ourselves the
mouse and the usb cable, which does look like it's hardwired. i don't love the fact that it's hardwired. it's acceptable, but it's fine. we do have a quite aggressive
amount of styling here. so we got like these little
like triangles on the side. we have these little slashes here. we have the g logo, which
i believe does light up. we also have a little carrying
pouch for our weights, which are each 3.6 grams. let's try some weights. you gotta like build yourself
a little origami pattern here. so that's two. so each of those weights
are like almost four grams. and that is, i mean that's, it's got a little heft to it. although before we try the g 502, i would like to pair it with
the bestselling keyboard on amazon. so specifically, if you want to get a
bestselling gaming keyboard, you get this. the npet, i believe this is the k10 v3. so this is $22. but, sad to report, it is a membrane keyboard. a lot of people have purchased this npet. again, we're talking about
tens of thousands of reviews. and generally people are
pretty positive about it. all right, okay. yep. that looks very similar
to what i am used to. the font and especially just
like the way they cut it, it's just not clear. like i definitely remember seeing this and looking at it in person,
it's just super faint. maybe it'll look a little bit better when we actually plug it in. not like bad. it's just not good. you know what? the only thing i'll say that's good about a membrane keyboard
is that often times, the rgb looks better, because the switches are super basic, so they can actually fill
the whole thing up with leds. again, i feel like i'm being a little
snobby with this keyboard. so i will say that maybe
take what i'm saying with a slight grain of salt. but the fact that it's
just a membrane keyboard, which is the most popular
gaming keyboard on amazon, doesn't feel right to me. i would not buy the npet. i just, it's just, spend a
slightly bigger amount of money and you can get a mechanical keyboard. which in my opinion, is
a big step up and feel. now on the mouse side, i'm fully on board with this g 502 hero. it's a little heavy for my taste. i would certainly not put the weights in. but you have the flexibility there. you've got the extra buttons.
it feels good ergonomically. so there you have it.
is amazon always right? should you just blindly follow the herd and whatever bestselling number one is? throw it in your cart? like half the time, i think. half the items we've
looked at were decent. and the other half, not so much.