most of the largest dams in the us were built 
before we really understood the impacts they would   have on river ecosystems. or at least they were 
built before we were conscientious enough to weigh   those impacts against the benefits of a dam. and, 
to be fair, it's hard to overstate those benefits:   flood control, agriculture, water supply for 
cities, and hydroelectric power. all of our   lives benefit in some way from this enormous 
control over earth's freshwater resources. but those benefits come at a cost, and the 
price isn't just the dollars we've spent on   the infrastructure but also the impacts dams have 
on the environment. so you have these two vastly   important resources: the control of water to the 
benefit of humanity and aquatic ecosystems that we   rely on, and in many ways these two are in direct 
competition with each other. but even though most   of these big dams were built decades ago, the ways 
we manage that struggle are constantly evolving as   the science and engineering improve. this is 
a controversial issue with perspectives that   run the gamut. and i don't think there's one right 
answer, but i do know that an informed opinion is   better than an oblivious one. so, i wanted to see 
for myself how we strike a balance between a dam's   benefits and environmental impacts, and how that's 
changing over time. so, i partnered up with the   folks at the pacific northwest national laboratory 
(or pnnl) in washington state to learn more. just   to be clear, they didn't sponsor this video and 
had no control over its contents.they showed me   so much, not just the incredible technology and 
research that goes on in their lab, but also how   it is put into practice in real infrastructure 
in the field, all so i could share it with you.   this is mcnary dam, a nearly 
1.5-mile-long hydroelectric dam   across the columbia river between 
oregon and washington state,   just shy of 300 miles (or 470 km) upriver from 
the pacific ocean. and this is tim roberts,   the dam's operations project manager and 
the best dam tour guide i've ever met. but this was not just a little walkthrough. we 
went deep into every part of this facility to   really understand how it works. mcnary is one 
of the hydropower workhorses in the columbia   river system, a network of dams that provide 
electricity, irrigation water, flood control,   and navigation to the region. it's equipped with 
fourteen power-generating turbines, and these   behemoths can generate nearly a gigawatt of power 
combined! that means this single facility can,   very generally, power more than half-a-million 
homes. the powerhouse where those turbines live   is nearly a quarter mile long (more than 350 
meters)! it's pretty hard to convey the scale   of these units in a video, but tim was gracious 
enough to take us down inside one to see and   hear the enormous steel shaft spinning as it 
generates megawatts of electrical power.   all that electricity flows out to the grid on these 
transmission lines to power the surrounding area. mcnary is a run-of-the-river dam, meaning 
it doesn't maintain a large reservoir. it   stores some water in the forebay to create 
the height needed to run the turbines,   but water flows more or less at the rate it 
would without the dam. so, any extra water   flowing into the forebay that can't be used for 
hydro generation has to be passed downstream   through one or more of these 22 enormous lift 
gates in the spillway beside the powerhouse. as you can imagine, all this infrastructure 
is a lot to operate and maintain. but it's   not just hydrologic conditions like floods 
and droughts or human needs like hydropower   demands and irrigation dictating how and when 
those gates open or when those turbines run;   it's biological criteria too. the 
columbia and its tributaries are home   to a huge population of migratory fish, 
including chinook, coho, sockeye, pink salmon,   and lampreys, and over the years, through 
research, legislation, lawsuits, advocacy,   and just plain good sense by the powers at be, 
we've steadily been improving the balance between   impacts to that wildlife and the benefits of 
the infrastructure. in fact, just about every   aspect of the operation of mcnary dam is driven 
by the fish passage plan. this 500-page document,   prepared each year in collaboration with a litany 
of partners, governs the operation of mcnary and   several other dams in the columbia river system 
to improve the survival of fish along the river. this fish bible includes prescriptive details and 
schedules for just about every aspect of the dam,   including the fish passage structures too. 
usually, when we build infrastructure,   the people who are going to use it are 
actual people. but in a very real sense,   huge aspects of mcnary and other similar dams 
are infrastructure for non-humans.   on top of the hydropower plant and the spillway, mcnary 
is equipped with a host of facilities meant to   help wildlife get from one side to the other 
with as little stress or injury as possible.   let's look at the fish ladders first. 
mcnary has two of them, one on each side. a big contingent of the fish needing past mcnary 
dam are adult salmon and other species from the   ocean trying to get upstream to reproduce 
in freshwater streams. they are biologically   motivated to swim against the current, so a fish 
ladder is designed to encourage and allow them   to do just that, and it starts with attraction 
water. dams often slow down the flow of water,   both upstream and downstream, which can be 
disorienting to fish trying to swim against a   current. also, dams are large, and fish generally 
don't read signs, so we need an alternative way to   show them how to get around. luckily, in 
addition to a strong current, salmon are   sensitive to the sound and motion of splashing 
water, so that's just what we do. at mcnary,   huge electric pumps lift water from the tailrace 
below the dam and discharge it into a channel that   runs along the powerhouse. as the water splashes 
back down, it draws fish toward the entrances so   they can orient with the flow through the ladder. 
some of this was a little tough to understand   even seeing it in person, so i had a couple 
of the engineers at the dam explain it to me. all these entrances provide options 
for the fish to come in, increasing   the opportunity and likelihood 
that they will find their way. once they're in, they make their way upstream 
into the ladder itself. concrete baffles break   up the insurmountable height of the dam into 
manageable sections that fish can swim up at   their own pace. most of the fish go through 
holes in the baffles, but some jump over the   weirs. there's even a window near the top 
of the ladder where an expert counts the   fish and identifies their species.  this data is 
important to a wide variety of organizations,   and it's even posted online if you 
want to have a look. once at the top,   the fish pass through a trash rack that keeps 
debris out of the ladder and continue their   journey to their spawning grounds. the goal is that 
they never even know they left the river at all,   and it works. every year hundreds of thousands 
of chinook, coho, steelhead, and sockeye make   their way past mcnary dam. if you include the 
non-native shad, that number is in the millions. and it's not just bony fish that find 
their way through. some of the latest   updates are to help lamprey passage. 
these are really interesting creatures! i'm working on another video that will take a much 
deeper look at how this and other fish ladders   work, so stay tuned for that one, but it's not the 
only fish passage facility here. because what goes   up, must come down, or at least their offspring 
do (most adult salmon die after reproducing). so,   mcnary dam needs a way to get those juvenile 
fish through as well. that might sound simple;   thanks to gravity, it's much simpler to go 
down than up. but at a dam, it's anything but. i definitely wouldn't want 
to pass through one of these,   but juvenile fish can make it through 
the spillway mostly just fine. in fact,   specialized structures are often installed 
during peak migration times to encourage   fish to swim through the spillway. mcnary dam has 
lift gates where the water flows from lower in the   water column. but salmon like to stay relatively 
close to the surface and they're sensitive to the   currents in the flow. many dams on the columbia 
system have some way to spill water over the top,   called a weir, that is more conducive to 
getting the juveniles through the dam. the other path for juveniles to take is to be 
drawn toward the turbines. but mcnary and a lot   of other dams are equipped with a sophisticated 
bypass system to divert the fish before they   make it that far. and that all starts with the 
submersible screens.    these enormous structures are specially designed with lots of narrow 
slots to let as much water through to the   turbines while excluding juvenile fish. they are 
lowered into place with the huge gantry crane that   rides along the top of the power house. each 
submersible screen is installed in front of a   turbine to redirect fish upwards while the water 
flows continues on. brushes keep them clean of   debris to make sure they fish don't get trapped 
against the screen. they might look simple,   but even a basic screen like this requires a 
huge investment of resources and maintenance,   because they are absolutely critical 
to the operation of the dam. once the fish have been diverted by the screens, 
they flow with some of the water upward into a   massive collection channel. this was originally 
designed as a way to divert ice and debris,   but now it's basically a fish cathedral 
along the upstream face of the dam. the juveniles come out in these conduits 
from below. then they flow along the channel,   while grates along the bottom concentrate them 
upward. next they flow into a huge pipe that pops   out on the downstream face of the dam. along the 
way, the juveniles pass through electronic readers   that scan any of the fish that have been equipped 
with tags and then into this maze of pipes and   valves and pumps and flumes. in the past, this 
facility was used to store juveniles so they   could be loaded up in barges and transported 
downstream. but over time, the science showed   it was better to just release them downstream 
from the dam. every once in a while, some of the   juveniles are separated for counting so scientists 
can track them just like the adults in the ladder.   then the juveniles continue their journey in the 
pipe out to the middle of the river downstream. avian predation is a serious problem 
for juveniles. pelicans, seagulls,   and cormorants love salmon just like the 
rest of us. in many cases, most of the fish   mortality caused by dams isn't the stress of 
getting them through the various structures,   but simply that birds and other predatory fish take advantage of the 
fact that dams can slow down and concentrate   migrating fish. this juvenile bypass 
pipe runs right out into the center   of the downstream channel where flows are 
fastest to give the fish a fighting chance,   and mcnary is equipped with a lot of 
deterrents to try and keep the birds away. all this infrastructure at mcnary dam to help 
fish get upstream and downstream has changed   and evolved over time, and in fact, a lot of 
it wasn't even conceived of when the dam was   first built. and that's one of the most 
important things i learned touring mcnary   dam and the pacific northwest national lab: 
the science is constantly improving. a ton of   that science happens here at the pnnl aquatics 
research laboratory.   i spent an entire day just chatting with all the scientists and researchers 
here who are advancing the state of the art. for example, not all the juvenile salmon 
get diverted away from those turbines.   some inevitably end up going right through. you 
might think that being hit by a spinning turbine   is the worst thing that could happen to a fish, 
but actually the change in pressure is the main   concern. a hydropower turbine's job is to extract 
as much energy as possible from the flowing water.   in practice, that means the pressure coming 
into each unit is much higher than going out,   and that pressure drop happens rapidly. it doesn't 
bother the lamprey at all, but that sudden change   in pressure can affect the swim bladder that 
most fish use for buoyancy. so how do we know   what that does to a fish and how newer designs 
can be safer? pnnl has developed sensor fish,   electronic analogues to the real thing that they 
can send through turbines and get data out on the   other side. compare that data to what we already 
know about the limits fish can withstand (another   area of research at pnnl), and you can quickly and 
safely evaluate the impacts a turbine can have. what's awesome is seeing how that research 
translates into actual investments in   infrastructure that have a huge effect 
on survivability. new turbines recently   installed at ice harbor dam upstream were 
designed in collaboration with pnnl with   fish passage in mind to reduce injury for 
any juveniles that find their way in. one   study found that more than 98% of fish 
survived passing through the new turbines,   and nearly all the large hydropower dams in 
the columbia river system are slated to have   them installed in the future. and it's not just 
the turbines that are seeing improvements. i   talked to researchers who study live fish, how 
they navigate different kinds of structures,   and what they can withstand. just the engineering 
in the water system to keep these fish happy is   a feat in itself. i talked to a coatings expert 
about innovative ways to reduce biological buildup   on nets and screens. i talked to an energy 
researcher about new ways to operate turbines   to decrease impacts to fish from ramping them up 
and down in response to fluctuating grid demands. and i spent a lot of time learning about how 
we track and study the movement of fish as   they interact with human made structures. 
researchers at pnnl have developed a suite   of sensors that can be implanted into fish for 
a variety of purposes. some use acoustic signals   picked up by nearby receivers that can precisely 
locate each fish like underwater gps. of course,   if you want to study fish behavior accurately, you 
need the fish to behave like they would naturally,   so those sensors have to be tiny. pnnl has 
developed miniscule devices, so small i could   barely make out the details. you also want to make 
sure that inserting the tags doesn't injure the   fish, so researchers showed me how you do that 
and make sure they heal quickly. and of course,   those acoustic tags require power, and tiny 
batteries (while extremely impressive in their   own right) sometimes aren't enough for long-term 
studies. so they've even come up with fish-powered   generators that can keep the tags running for 
much longer periods of time. a piezoelectric   device creates power as the fish swims... and 
they had some fun ways to test them out too. of course, migratory fish aren't the only part 
of the environment impacted by hydropower,   and with all the competing interests, 
i don't think we'll ever feel like the   issue is fully solved. these are messy, 
muddy questions that take time, energy,   and big investments in resources 
to get even the simplest answers. the salmon pink and blue paint in the powerhouse 
at mcnary really sums it up well, with the blue   symbolizing the water that drives the station, and 
the pink symbolizing the life within the water,   and its environmental, economic, and cultural 
significance. this kind of balancing act is really   at the heart of what a lot of engineering is all 
about. i'm so grateful for the opportunity to see   and learn more about how energy researchers, 
biologists, ecologists, policy experts,   regulators, activists, and engineers collaborate 
to make sure we're being good stewards of the   resources we depend on. i think alison colotelo, 
the hydropower program lead at pnnl put it best: my crew and i spent two full days in 
washington talking to scientists and   engineers about these complicated issues. 
and i probably learned more about biology   in those two days than anything 
i happened to absorb in college,   especially about how dams can isolate populations 
of fish if they aren't equipped with well-designed   passage systems like those at mcnary. and 
there's a human equivalent to that too,   that's really interesting i think, because we've 
found ways of living in super remote places,   and the ways people and fish adapt to those 
situations have a lot of similarities. my friend,   sam, of the wendover productions channel has 
a video series called extremities that is all   about the most remote places on earth and how and 
why people choose to settle them. i've watched all   15 episodes. they're so good, and if you want to 
check them out, they're available only on nebula. you've probably heard of nebula before. it's a 
streaming service built by a group of creators,   including me, as a way to boost the 
resources and capabilities of independent   creators. it's totally ad-free, 
full of originals like extremities,   and there are no industry executives or big 
production houses deciding what projects live   or die. that means people like brian from real 
engineering, scotty from strange parts, integza,   and a lot of others get to make the stuff 
they're passionate about without having to   be so careful to please the youtube algorithm 
or so shallow to capture a wider audience. you can think of it like an employee-owned co-op. 
a place to experiment with bigger projects,   different formats, and extra content and perks 
from your favorite creators. my videos go live   there early, before they come out here, and my 
practical construction series wouldn't have been   possible to make if not for the dedicated people 
watching on nebula. i know there are a lot of   streaming platforms out there right now, and no 
one wants another monthly cost to keep track of,   but i also know that if you're watching a 
show like this to end, there is a ton of   other stuff on nebula that you're going to 
enjoy as well. so i've made it dead simple:   click the link below and you'll get 40% off an 
annual plan. that means you pay just one time,   30 dollars, for an entire year's access at 
nebula.tv/practical-engineering. that's less   than 3 dollars a month. if you're with me that 
independent creators are the future of great   video, i hope you'll consider subscribing. thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think!