- creating a 3d model of a
person from scratch is tough. and while modeling software and hardware has improved throughout the years, it still takes a ton of experience and a lot of work to take a collection of basic shapes and turn it into a photorealistic person. but, hold on a second. what if we started with
a finished person instead and then just tweaked
them to look different? well, that sounds kinda like
the character creation tool in your favorite rpg, and those are often pretty decent. but, they're always highly limited in terms of their sculpting options. that is, until now. meet the metahuman creator. want a voodoo doll of
your boss to kick around with ragdoll physics? easy! want a photorealistic
digital representation of the father you never had? got you covered.
( background laughter) want a waifu to whatever people do with those? ew didn't need to know, but you got it. wanna know about our sponsor ridge wallet? ridge wallet wants to redefine- no, nay, have redefined
the traditional wallet with their compact frames and rfid blocking plates. keep your wallet bulbs down and use offer code, linus, to save 10% and get free worldwide shipping. (upbeat music) with the metahuman creator, epic has set out to give
developers the ability to not only make character models quickly but to a high level of detail. now, it hasn't been
officially released yet, but you can request
access on their website, wait a few days and, (table banging)
bada bing, bada boom, you've got your very own npc
factory at your disposal. the big question, however, is, is it as easy to use as they say. to find out, i will be going mano, a mano against our logistics manager mathias, who has a background in 3d modeling. yeah, granted, he leans
more towards architecture and structures, but he does have experience
with character modeling as well. anyway, if epic did their job right, none of that should matter. i mean, this looks pretty easy, right? who needs design school to make a fully rigged and clothed human? when you've got the power of unreal engine for. speaking of clothing, too bad we can't clothe
our models in ltt merch. that would be a fun epic collab. for the next best thing. go to lttstore.com and clothe yourself with them. now, each of us will have 20 minutes to turn the same starting metahuman into a digital version of yours truly. neither of us have touched the tool yet. and we'll both be using the same frontal and three-quarter view profile
pictures as references. does this seem reasonable? - yep. - how much time would it normally take to create a fully rigged
and clothed person? - depending on the complexity. anywhere from a couple of hundred hours to a couple thousand. - fortunately, my secret weapon is i have the advantage of seeing myself in the mirror every morning. - [david] doesn't he get
to see you every day? - i don't think anyone's
gonna call that an advantage. (linus and david laugh) this is it? - [plouffe] yeah. - there's no like tutorial mission? - [plouffe] no. - we just go now? - yeah. - oh my gosh, - i'm ready. - [plouffe] matthias seems confident. - how long do we get? - [plouffe] 20 minutes. - okay. - [plouffe] and start.(chuckles) - normally, when we do
these kinds of challenges, no matter how much experience i have, i'll just come in overly confident. (lunis snort laughs) today i got nothing. i got no swagger. face blend. what is blend? oh my god, you take multiple characters and like put them together. and she's like looking at
you and stuff the whole time. holy crap. i am screwed. - i'm pretty confident about this. it's relatively intuitive. it's pretty, you know, i just point, click, drag. - what the hell is happening? okay. well that... how do i make my nose pointer? oh. - [plouffe] linus, do you
have any prior experience with modeling programs? - [linus] absolutely.
zero prior experience. ah. - [plouffe] what about in-game
character creation tools? - in-game character creation tools. i usually just blitz through them as fast as possible because i play games to play games, not to stare at in-game characters. - [plouffe] what do you
think your chances are of beating matthias? or at least matching him? - my chances are basically zero. thank you for making me say that out loud. (plouffe chuckles) i still haven't figured out how to change skin color at all. so that's a challenge. (linus heavily grunts) (linus laughs) (plouffe laughs) - well that aint it chief. (sniffles) okay. what color is my skin? i don't know, never
really thought about it. (linus chuckles) - i went to school for 3d animation, mostly for cinematics. so you know, like cartoons and whatnot, unfortunately i never
actually got a chance to do it, professionally at least, - until today. - until today. yeah. - [plouffe] it's been a few minutes. what do you think of the ui? the user interface. - it's great. but i'm having trouble. how about that? okay, i have dark brown eyes apparently, my eyes are dark. okay. oh god,
(background laugher) that smile. i don't look like that. okay, my teeth are mostly
white-ish, i think. but they're a little yellow. okay. makeup. oh god, no, we don't need any makeup. how do i turn it off? thin liner, soft smoky. okay, it needs more off buttons. 'cause, this has eyeliner
on, and i don't want it. so do i just press x? no. oh god. - [plouffe] matthias,
how does this compare to maya or blender or
something of that nature? - the difference between say this and maya is maya, you have to drag
around individual vertices and other features, and you have to like place individual polygons. where this is just, you know, nice click and drag
and move it all around. - okay, color. here we go. what color is my hair? it's kind of... oh god, i'm so gonna lose this. - [plouffe] it stil- - that doesn't look
anything like me though. - [david] it looks so
much better than you! - yeah. it's very symmetrical. i'm not very symmetrical. - as far as i can tell, there isn't any way to actually change or adjust the hair shapes, only what the presets are, just kind of annoying. (linus snort laughs) - 'kay. maybe we could
change the pants to yeah, that's more like, yeah. uh-huh. 'kay. definitely hoodie, okay. shoes. there we go. it's the closest we got - [david] surprised you didn't the choose the child for your body. - the child i'm not that short. all right. i need to find some mother(beep) with a big nose, and i need
to add that to my blend. show me the big old honking nose. why do these people all have
perfect, adorable noses. look how cute this guy is. look at jesse here. like man, 10 out of 10 doable. - i think they're going to
add a lot of stuff later on because it does feel like there's a lot of tweaks and details that are missing currently. - yeah. i mean, one thing
you can't really adjust is, you know, eye separation, and that's an even some fairly
basic character creation screens that i've seen. we can move them apart and stuff. oh wow. okay. - i'm gonna admit this
doesn't look quite like you, but i think that's just due to
the limitations of the tool. - oh yeah, you're just
gonna the blame the tool. well, when mine looks identical
to me, you're gonna... who's going to be laughing now. (background chuckle) oh my god. you can add more than three blend things. i'm just gonna leave christopher in there. okay, now we're just
throwing stuff at the wall. okay, okay. what about pier? lets throw pier in here. oh god. that's not it. pier get out - [david] matthias are you actually using your keyboard hand? - yeah. - what kind of shortcuts
- [linus] wait, what? - [david] are you using?
- [ linus] what are you doing? - mostly just rotation and movements. - i didn't even move
the guy around at all. do you need to do that? - [matthias] if you want
to a guy to get spelt of course you do. (linus sighs) (background laugher) - 'cause if you could
transition between two views like you can actually
see what you're doing. - i think really this tool is designed to make us feel bad about ourselves. - [plouffe] 30 seconds. - 'kay. okay.
- two, one. - okay. count us down - three, two, one. (dramatic music) - [both] hmm (background laughter) - they fell sims really. - you definitely got the nose better. i couldn't figure out the nose tool. - so basically i didn't
actually blend anything. i just all did it manually. - really? - yes. so the tools i primarily used
were the move and sculpt, then i just integrated parts of the features to kind of give me a ballpark, then tuned with the moving sculpt. - interesting. yeah. i definitely used blend (clears throat) - [matthias] which it took
me a while to figure out how to use. and then i went in with moving sculpt and then i made things worse. for the most part, i think the blend has
a large potential to, you know, to speed up all the workflow. - [linus] uh-huh - the problem is i
didn't want to waste time by learning a new tool when i could just do it faster myself. right? if there's more hair customization or if you could say sculpt the hair like you can do the face, - [linus] yeah. - that would've made it so much better. - i think with more time and experience, i could get it closer, but not a lot closer. it needs way more tools with respect to being able to like shape the face more. or maybe, i mean, or actually, yours is better, but it's hard to tell under the beard, but i felt like i couldn't draw in my cheeks enough.
- yeah. i constantly tried to draw it in because you have quit colored cheeks
- my cheeks quiet concave - [both] yeah. and then the nose. - yes.
- you can do anything - absolutely
- with the nose it needs way more in terms of accessories. there's a lot of things about a person that are identifiable markers that you just can't put on. like i have a mole, for example, that would really help go, oh yeah, that's linus or earrings or whatever. - which one looks more like linus - i don't know, they're
both (chuckle) pretty bad. (linus and matthias laugh) - ouch, ouch. stab don't twist. (matthias continues laughing) so these are both supposed to be linus? - mhmm
(linus and matthias laugh) - ouch. - okay.
- supposed to there's a bit of a, i get a bit of an asian
vibe on this one here. i don't immediately get linus
vibes from either of them so there's that? (jonathan chuckles) - okay. what am i doing? - [david] you need to decide which face looks more like your husband. - but neither of those (yvonne chuckles) look like him (matthias laughs) (background laughter) honestly the one on the
right kind of looks like james to me. but
(background laughter) the one on the left, the hair is just too nice-looking like it's all swept so neatly, and linus' hair is always just like he just woke up. it's bedhead.(yvonne chuckles) - i didn't i think it was a good idea to bring in someone who
looks at me this much. (everyone laughs) - oh yeah. and did you get the ears
being offside a little bit? (background laughter) - i don't know. the one on the left just looks
more fake just in general, it just looks less like a real human. the one on the right. i don't know, really, you know, i just ,i can't get past the beard. it's just too much. it's just too much on the left. i'm sorry. i'm sorry. i have experienced doing this because i watched linus do
short surrogates all the time. both hairs, at least the
hairstyles is off for sure. oh yeah. the one on the right. i liked the one on the right better. so the right one looks like what linus wants to look like
- oh, shut up! (background scream laugher)
and then the one on the left is where i-
(jonathan chuckles) - [david] which one do you
think looks more like linus? - neither. - i think i'm going to go
with the one on the left, just because this one looks
too much like james to me i'm gonna guess matthias made that one. - [david] no. linus made that
- really? - yeah lunis' self image is james - they do look like people. they just don't look like linus. like maybe the one on the right like maybe a slightly younger linus, but i've seen younger linus and he didn't look like that. - and i'm gonna predict i think mathias did the one on the right. - [david] you're very wrong! - what? (laughs) oh, i'm so sorry matthias. - that's fine. - you know, if i'm allowed to guess who's done what. - don't look at us. - okay, fine. i'm gonna guess that the left one was done by matthias, and the right one was done by linus. - i'm gonna say that the left
one was modeled by linus. the super beardy one, just because linus is a jokester and he would do that. - i could see that being
like the hero in your story. and that's kind of like the, oh man, i don't know why luke just popped into my head.(yvonne chuckles)
- go ahead what were you (inaudible) for here huh? (yvonne chuckles) - which one did you say it
looked more like me again? (background scream laugher) so james is the hero in your story? is that what you're trying to say? i'm gonna go down. - i'm not a modern game
development expert, but i think it's pretty obvious that this would help a lot in terms of creating extremely diverse-looking crowds of people. i mean, we've seen so often
where the main character is like this immaculately crafted 3d model. i think the (finger snapping)
reboot tomb raider games are a great example where lara craft is just like this painstakingly created model. and then, pretty much everyone
else in the games is like yeah, it looks like it
was done five years ago. you know, crowds of people with
this level of diversity with this amount of speed is definitely gonna increase my immersion because you see it so often where you're like, oh yeah, that's the same
one with a pallet swap. like it takes you out of it. it's immersion-breaking. whereas this can improve
that like overnight. - i think it has a great potential
to replace a large amount of npc creation in the scene where you
need, say, a hundred different characters, all wandering around
doing different things. it's absolutely great because it's rigged, textured and ready to go and easily deployable, you know. yeah. it's not great. admittedly - not great. unlike our sponsor squarespace, you might've heard of them. they're a leader in website design, and their all-in-one platform makes it easy to make your own website. in minutes, you can make any website from a personal portfolio to a resume to fanfiction or even shopping. they've got website analytics tools. that'll help you keep track of
how your website's performing and find all the weak areas to make sure you get a
steady stream of traffic. and you can even buy a domain through them as well as create email campaigns. man, they've got endless features. and if you have any trouble with any of their award-winning templates, all you've got to do is reach out to their customer support 24/7, and they will help you out. so head to squarespace.com/ltt
for a free trial. and when you're ready to launch, you can get 10% off at
our link down below. well, wasn't that fun. i was actually, you know what? we probably got closer than i expected. if you guys are looking for
another fun video to watch we recently did one with two
simultaneously running games and people have to decide
whether rtx is on or off. the results will shock you. that's me. thanks, yvonne.