- hey guys, this is austin. and today, it is time for our
2019 gaming pc build tutorial with a very special
guest, mr. jon rettinger. the og of tech youtube. but i wouldn't say that likely, - i'm like, i'm team crusty. and at this point, we're doing it for, i've been doing it for so long. so i have a confession,
this is embarrassing, not only have i never
built a gaming pc, i have actually never built a computer ever. - you gotta give yourself some credit, like you've done some ram upgrades and that kind of stuff. - i've done that kind of stuff and i know the components, but i
have never actually, like physically put them all together myself. - so we pretty much every
year, when we do our pc build tutorial, we try
to pick like a different variety of parts so this
one's a very standard build, so there's a full-sized chassis. we have like the hard drive. we have like the ssd. a little bit of everything
that you would typically do. but the most important thing here is that we actually
have to put it together. so when it comes to building
a game pc, you need exactly one tool, a screwdriver. so, i will bestow this upon you. - i know what this is. - yes. - i prepared for this part of the build. - okay, you've unboxed a
thing or two in your day. i'm not worried about that. - there we go, look at that. - that's pretty good, actually. so this is the fractal design focus g, and when it comes to building a pc, the actual case itself
doesn't make a huge difference so the main thing is to look for the size so, let's turn this over. - so is this computer
gonna find a home after i destroy it? - ah, we'll see about that. we'll see, we have to
build the system first. we'll see, if it could actually survives. - i meant to do that. - it's okay. - for five minutes, i've already
broken something, alright. - so most of the time
when you're buying a case, a lot of hardware comes with it. you'll see a couple of other screws come like for example the power supply but just make sure you don't lose this. we would need this a little bit later. besides that, there's
really not a whole lot to do besides install the power supply. so, something like this
is a 600-watt evga unit. it costs somewhere in the
neighborhood like $50 or so. you can get cheaper 600-watt units but they will catch on fire. i'm not even kidding, like
some of the really cheap units will straight up last like 3 months and legitimately can catch on
fire, ruin your components. this is not an area to
save a lot of money. get something that's decent 80+ and make sure it has enough
power for your components. right, so what we're running here, 600 watts would be just fine. - how do you make sure
it has enough power? - so there's pcpartpicker
has a great calculators that you can plug in all your parts right. so generally speaking, it's your cpu and your graphics and card. those are like the main components and if you wanna do any over-clocking you always wanna have some headroom, but that would generally give
you a good sort of ball park of is it gonna pull
300 watts or 500 watts, or whatever the case is. usually, just get something
that's a little bit over what you need or a fair bit over because it doesn't hurt and you'll never know if
you want to do any upgrades. - do i have to induce
myself before i mount it? - no. - or just go ahead and do it? it's a pg channel. - so for a case like
this, if you take a look, we actually have a grate on the bottom, so we can put the power supply face down. but some power supplies
will need to be faced up. for example, this on the top of the case. just make sure that when you see this fan, it has access to at least some airflow. - [jon] is it pulling
it in or pushing it up? - it's pulling it in and it's pushing up the back. and so one good tip when you're installing
any kind of hardware, this is not even like a pc
specific thing, do the corners. so start with this
corner, then do this one, this one and this one. that way, you're always
applying even pressure. that's something that's nice for computers but like legit, like if you're putting like tires on your car
or anything like that, doing sort of a cross pattern
is always a good idea. - so the initial idea on
why i want to build a pc. my mom just retired. she's been running my
dad's office for years and their pc at home is
like running windows 7 and it's ancient. and she's like, shall i
just get a new computer? and i was like, alright,
like, at some point i gotta man up and be like,
"i can build a computer", like i, it's almost embarrassing
that i'd never done it so, i'm gonna take this knowledge, - and you're gonna get hooked up. - and i'm gonna build
a computer for my mom. - so this is step one. installing the power supply. we can actually set this
off to the side now, and start putting
together the motherboard. so with this system, i
opted to go for ryzen. as far as i'm concerned, especially in the sort of
like, middle budget area, ryzen is basically the way to go. so we are using ryzen 5 20600x. i actually usually recommend the 2600 'cause this guy is a
little bit more expensive and it's not totally within
the price but i had one, so. so you're probably aware, but
it's usually a motherboard is kind of what everything touches, right? so we have that processor in
here, our ram, graphics card, ssds, everything pretty much
attaches to the motherboard in some way. so, the first step is to work on our cpu. - okay. - so this is the built-in stock cooler that comes with the processor, so if you look at this bit right here, that's thermal paste, don't touch that. basically, that's going
to be what makes a nice, solid connection with our cpu. now this is the part of a build that i think most people
get really anxious about. - true. - so the cpu you can see, it's got all these like
little pins and stuff and you have to be very careful
with it, but realistically, probably the easiest component to install. it's literally like it's
gonna take you 5 seconds. - it might take you 5 seconds. - let's see.
- okay. - i have faith.
- okay. - so this area in the
middle of the motherboard is where our cpu socket goes. all you do is just pull that on back and pull it all the way up to that. - [jon] this look the same on pretty much any motherboard right? - [austin] it's slightly
different between indi and intel, very similar though. - [jon] it's like i'm bringing
the t-1000 to life here. - [austin] well, you kinda are. - so just gently
- just like that? - ah, you're a little off now. there you go, okay. so, all you do now is
just push this on down, - [jon] okay. - [austin] we're installed. - got it.
- as simple as that. - now it's time to put
it in our cpu cooler. i might need a bigger screwdriver. yeah, i'm gonna grab a bigger
screwdriver, hang on a second. - i'm gonna go ahead and
take this opportunity to say i was actually nervous
just putting in the processor. hopefully it didn't show. i ram have done, but never
a processor, i'm nervous. alright, austin's coming
back, i gotta be quiet now. don't tell him i'm nervous, okay? i was totally cool
putting in that processor. - i'll be totally honest, i told you to do it
the wrong way at first. it was to the side and i
realized when i looked over at it %that actually goes that
way so that was my bad. - not on me. - cut that part out of the video. so with our backplate,
fully in the right zone, we're good to put this in. so all you do is line up so
as you can see the screws. they have little springs on
them so they're tensioned. before you sit it down, just keep in mind that you have thermal paste together. the thermal paste, once it's applied, you just think about like this, you wanna have even pressure
as you push it down. so basically, you set it down, try not to move it too much right? so try to like line up
and then put some pressure to kinda make sure that this
is making a very solid seal with our processor. - does it need a lot of pressure? - it doesn't need a lot, but you don't want it to wiggling around, cause then the thermal
paste starts to slide, and kind of get uneven,
you can get air bubbles. so after a bit of tightening
to make sure the screws are very evenly placed, not your fault, something super easy to happen. - austin's to nice to
say it's not my fault. - no, no, no, it's totally,
totally easy to happen. it was particularly finicky but the main thing is
the actual cooler is on. next, we need to plug in the actual fan. so it's the cpu fan header right here. you see these two notches? - [jon] yeah. - [austin] so it only goes in
one way, so literally, just plug it in. - [jon] i can handle it. - [austin] i believe in you. - [jon] hey, nailed it. - alright, nice. next up is the fun part, installing ram. - i've done ram before. - okay, i will let you have at it. - so with austin evans, and
his attention to detail. look at that, the ram. - i was hoping it's the right size, - it matches the case. like, when you open it up
should match and look beautiful, to steve jobs. - dude, i always do like the
worst color coordinating. - look at that.
- that's pretty good. - so we have 16g of ddr4. so one of the things
you should keep in mind specifically when you're
building ryzen systems is that the speed of
the memory is important. not even for just like
intergraphics or something which this does not have. but it just speeds up
the entire ryzen system and gets a little more out of that cpu. so usually, i would like to budget a little bit more money
towards some fast ram here. so 3000 megahertz is
pretty quick for ddr4, but importantly, it's also blue. so this uses dual channel memory, or this is can utilize
dual channel memory. so you wanna set it in channel one and channel three typically. so, you can check the
motherboard again to be sure. and if there's only two of them slots, it's super straight forward. but for this, we're gonna
put it in one and three so i'm gonna hinge you this. - [jon] i can do that. - [austin] so as soon as
you can open up the little retention pens so it's
pretty straight forward. and then, i think you,
is that the right way? i think you need to flip it. (clicking) there you go. - boom, i've rammed. - rammed, rammed up. next up is our ssd. so we're doing a couple of things here. so we are using a standard hard drive, but you always wanna use an
ssd pretty much for any build. like, i don't really
recommend any windows pc or any computer in general right now without some kind of ssd. - okay. - especially considering
the ssds have gotten cheap. this is a 500gb m2 drive
and so proper fast, and it costs like 80 bucks. so there's two tiny little screws. so the bigger guy, you can
just literally hand tighten into that hole. - okay. - [austin] and the other
screw will hold the drive into place. - [jon] okay. - [austin] so now, we need to
install the actual m2 drive. so if you take it, you'll
see the gold connector. it only goes in one way
because there's a little notch. so the label is facing up
in this case, so just like, basically just rested in. so when it's in, you
could actually see like there's a little bit of tension. so the screw is what's
gonna hold that down. that's what you pretty
much always do with this. now we can actually
install it into the case. - let's do it. - before we do that, we do
wanna install our i/o shield. so this is essentially, if you
imagine, the port right here, this kinda goes on top
of the ports, like this. you wanna put this in
beforehand, cause otherwise, - it doesn't fit.
- makes sense. - and believe me when i say, i've installed quite a few motherboards, got it all screwed in, and then realized, i forgot this part. so, do this first. so next step is to install our stand offs. try to get them as tight as you can. it doesn't make a huge
difference right now, but if you ever need to
pull out the motherboard, and you don't get your
stand offs all the way in, the stand offs will like
pull out with the board and it's a huge hassle,
you have to use pliers. alright, so now that the
stand offs are in place, we can put the motherboard in. so this part, it's a little bit annoying. mostly because is there really anything that you need to worry about. i mean, don't like scrape
it on inside the case, but you got to get it lined up just right and sometimes, it doesn't. and it is, by the way, totally okay, as long as you have your
cpu cooler in correctly, to hold it by this. it's actually, it's fine. - it does make me anxious,
i'm glad you said that. - and then, you see all
the ports right here? we wanna make sure that we're
lining up with these ports. so we don't have to get
it perfectly first try, but we wanna get it in the ball park. - [jon] okay. - so you want to make sure
that all of your ports are lined up in the back and that no tabs or anything are there. you also wanna take a visual
look to make sure that all of your screws are lined up so when you have that center
post, typically speaking, you're gonna be pretty
close to being ready. so with this one, we look
pretty much good to go. so now, we can actually
start screwing it into place. look at mr. rettinger,
building a pc over here man. look at that! [jon] so this is like,
this is a bucket list. - so that, we can pick it up right, and assuming it doesn't
come crashing down. - falls down immediately. - so you can definitely see the beginnings of the build right? i mean, we've got our power
supply, we got a motherboard with almost all of all
components involved. there's still a ball of cabling and stuff we need to work on, but at this point, you can kinda take a breath, go, hey look, - nailed it. - that's something that's
starting to resemble a pc. now, this is our rx590,
this is actually a card that i would be completely
honest, i mostly picked, because it's a decent card, but it's blue. and it matches the rest of the system. - look at the detail that
you get from austin evans. look at that. i want bumper stickers made
that say, "austin cares." - so if you guys are not
familiar with the 590, this is essentially a 580 that
has been heavily overclocked. and that is way bigger than i thought. look at the size of the heat pipes! for a card, which is realistically, not an insanely powerful
card, that's a lot of cooling. this is actually really
simple, before we install it, all we need to do is to
take out the pci covers, so it's literally just as
simple as unscrewing these two and it should slide right in. so you know of course in the
end, we have to name it right? - [jon] yes. - start thinking about names in your head. - i've already been thinking. this is gonna be like my third kid. - whoa, man! a little too much pressure. so, we're actually almost done installing components in the case. so we still need to do cable management, but before we do that, we have
to install our hard drive. now that it's actually
strictly not necessary, what we have here right now with the ssd, this is an optional thing, but i think a lot of people
enjoy installing hard drives just to get the extra capacity or if you don't want to use
an ssd, although you should, you can run the os off the hard drive. so all you do is, because
it's a tool-less drive, you see it's got these
little like notches, so you just wanna make sure
that the actual connectors, the sega connectors are facing in the back so we can plug it in. so i'll let you do it, but literally, it just lines up with the metal holes and it just holds it in. now, it's time to actually
start cabling things up. - okay. - it seems intimidating.
- yes. - it seems scary. not gonna be that bad. so we have little bit of space back here, so usually you wanna route
as many cables behind and then bring them back, right? so, if we look over here, we're gonna take these two cables and just run them through the hole. - [jon] so does this
one plug in to the top where it goes kinda like this? - [austin] it matches one connector. - [jon] okay, got it. - so two 20 full plus four,
but you always use it together. next up, we have our cpu power, so shall i say, four plus four. now this is something that
should be plugging in right, where is it, right up here. so i'm going to run it directly up and pass it through to you. next, let's work this
on these other cables. this is called sata. so we actually have two
which look identical. right, yeah. so this is what we need
to run to our hard drive. if we weren't using a
hard drive or an ssd, there was like in this bay, we wouldn't need this but we do need this. so do you want to unwrap that guy? so actually, if you look
to the side here, you'll see that sata1, sata2,
peripheral, and vga. - okay. - i'll plug it in to sata2. mostly so it kinda we can get a little bit of a cleaner cable run. so you can see, there's this
one with has a long connector, but it's got a little notch on the end, so that corresponds to
your hard drive right here. all you need to do, is
literally just line it up, press it in, it doesn't click but just make sure it's
seated all the way. the next thing in, arguably
really the more important thing is we need to make sure
that we have plenty of power for our graphics card. so actually, this is a good
point to kinda mention, do you see this is starting
to get a little tangled? - [jon] yeah. - you wanna do your best to
kind of flatten these cables now because it will make
your life easier later and especially if you see
them like start to like stack on top of each other, try to make sure there's
a little bit of space 'cause the side panel won't go on if you have like three cables on top. so what we need to do is
we need to use almost all except for this one. so, you put it together, - [jon] that's one connector? - yeah, so when you do it,
just make sure you pinch it. it's kind of annoying, but
it's basically the same thing, just plug in the 8-pin here. so power-wise, we're
actually looking pretty good. now, it's time to start
cabling all the little finicky things which are gonna take a while. - [jon] okay. - so this case only has two fans. so there's a pair of fans up front. now we need to run these cables. so there are multiple
points on the motherboard, those fan headers we were
talking about earlier? so, our fans are now powered. let's actually work our way down. so we have bunch of panels
that are up top here. so you just wanna make sure usb works, our audio, all that kinda stuff. - [jon] so how could you tell what's what? - it's all labeled. so you see this little
connector right here? it says hd audio? so pretty much everything
will say what it is. so when you're doing these sort of smaller connectors on the board, i like working from left to right, cause basically, if you do
more stuff in the right, it's kinda harder to run. so with that, it should just be a simple as plugging into the aafp port right here. so you see how it's like it's a 10-port, 10-pins but with one knocked out. - [jon] yeah. - you can't put it in the wrong way. so just make sure that that
one row with the 4, is on top. so one thing to note, as you
do all this cable management, it's very easy to have something
that's either not correct or maybe not all the way in. so once we test and
like turn on the system, if you see like your
usb's port is not working, or your audio port is
not working, or whatever. just go back and double check the cable. nine times out of ten
it's not something broken. it's just like a little
bit loose or something. next step is our usb3 header. now, i will say one thing about this, it looks bigger and
easier, and it is easier, but i have broken so
many of these connectors, specifically when you pull it out, like this is just not
a well-designed thing, so there is a notch at the bottom. so you'll see that it corresponds
with this guy right here, so you wanna put the notch on top. - [jon] and before i plug it in, shout one out with the blue. - oh yeah! usb3, here comes the most
fiddly part of any pc build. these guys. - what are those things? - these are all of our
front panel connectors. so we have the power switch, reset switch, our hard drive led, and our power led. so if you take a look at the cables, you'll see that if you've put it over that there's a little arrow. the arrows denote positive. so on this panel, you will
see the positive and negative. anytime you see the positive, you know that it's the little
arrow that is going to denote. so just use that as
your frame of reference. - [jon] okay. - there is a sata cable left
and i think that's gonna be it. so you can see it's a smaller guy? and it has a notch. now this actually just click in, so if you look on the side here, you'll see all our sata ports. - [jon] yeah. - so plug it in to sata1. so you wanna plug this guy in here. - [jon] okay, got it. - and then you'll see on the
back side of the hard drive, this goes in right here. - [jon] so there you go, and there we go! - and, that my friend, is what should be a completed pc build. now of course, we need
to do a lot of cable management, but don't
do any of that until you actually test to see if it works. cause if it doesn't, this
thing is coming back apart. - right, it's the moment of truth? - alright, three, two, one. hey! - [jon] i saw the light. - excellent sign. so our cpu fan is spinning. only one of our fans is spinning. we'll have to fix that. the port of intergraphics card,
oh look how good it looks. - [jon] look at that. blue lights, we did it! - so now, comes the hard part which is waiting to
roughly 10 to' minutes it takes for it to post. it's not actually' minutes. it should take like 30 seconds
but it feels like' minutes. oh, there it is! immediate, immediate! - so if my three-year
old ever gets excited he always yells, "me did it!" see, he can't even get the words out, so i feel like "me did it!" - oh dude, there we go,
we got our ryzen 5 2600x. we have 16 gigs showing up. two keyboards and mice. i'm not sure why it
shows two, but it's fine. we've built ourselves a game pc. - high-five man.
- we did it! - so, the best part is,
we didn't build this just for no reason. this is yours to take
home to your parents. - what?
- yes. - this is for mom? - this is for mom. mom has a dope gaming pc now. - mom's getting a... that's unnecessary but
very, very appreciated. she's gonna appreciate the blue. i'm gonna get a footage
of me giving it to her and replacing her windows 7 computer. - oh, that's great, okay, cool. if you guys enjoyed this video, definitely be sure to subscribe. not only here but also to
jon rettinger's super shiny, rebranded new channel, been
a lot of changes over there. and as always if you
guys wanna know anymore about any of the parts we used, the links will be in the description. all the links to a couple
of other tutorials, if you wanna check out more information, but if you wanna learn how to build a pc, hopefully, this has been helpful. jon, play us out please. - and if i can do it, you can do it too. - [austin] that is some
motivational words right there. - i mean it.