microsoft already got the opportunity to feel old while watching young people test drive their 90s software and guess what? now it's apple's turn don't you love that sound? come along as we take another trip back in time and see if our diverse user group here at linus media group both windows heads and mac heads alike can wrap their heads around some of apple's darker year decisions and let's see if you can wrap your head around this segue to our sponsor cable mod cable mod is teamed up with phanteks to provide the perfect cables for the phanteks revolt power supply learn more at the end of the video that's actually a pretty fast boot process emily got this macintosh lc-475 from brian the electrician a few years ago and the eagle-eyed among you might have noticed that it is the same mac that we used for our photoshop vfx challenge video nothing has changed about the hardware here, but we should probably quickly go over it just you know for historical context powering this retro workhorse is a 25 megahertz motorola processor four megabytes of onboard ram with a 16 meg stick installed and a whopping five hundred and twelve kilobytes of video memory in summary workhorse yes powerhouse not so much but that was by design this pizza box lineup was the first macintosh lineup to be sold near a thousand us dollars and savvy users could upgrade the cpu the memory and vram and even overclock them making these great entry-level machines or at least it was when it was first released for today. we're gonna fast forward to 1996 which is significant for a number of reasons one. it was the end of this machines commercial life and the year the final update to system 7.5 was released. so this is it this is as mature as this thing ever got number two the computer world was changing around it in a big way dvds hadn't really gone mainstream yet but multimedia was already the next big thing with quicktime and real player leading the charge thanks, of course to this newfangled thing called the internet that was starting to really take off thankfully system 7 boasted robust new features like multitasking a standard built-in tcp and ip support and true type fonts so, let's see how our intrepid youngsters get along in this brave new world wow, look at this beauty hi, i'm ariana. hey, i'm arthur. i'm the social media manager here at lmg hi, i'm emily. i'm one of our video editors here. hello. my name is sammy. i'm a pc guy how good am i with pcs? not really? the oldest mac that i used was the blueberry macs at my elementary school when i was like, whatever six or seven years old i have been a pc user basically all my life until a couple of years ago when it comes to macs i've dibbled and dabbled here from time to time, but i'm usually a pc user it was only windows in my house little worried about this one. it's not that i'm so young. i've never seen this it's that i'm so barely ever used a mac that i've never seen this i already was just sitting here playing with it trying to figure out why i keep clicking this and the menu goes away gotta hold it down hit me with my first challenge. your first task is to try out text-to-speech that was apple's killer app for the original macintosh. why is it so hard to find stuff on this? it is on the screen right now. no way. i think i'm being pranked. i download something. oops. okay, holy crap you couldn't have come up with something easy. okay. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no no, i'm gonna do it okay. well, the only thing that i would think is related is simple text text to speech what's going on here do you see this? whoa i haven't seen one of these since elementary school. i think you're dating yourself. i remember we had one of these in my library. are you here to like destroy the shoot or something? okay, always recent applications simple text would that be it? oh, come on. did i cheat a little there? i feel like i did that was a bit of a cheat, but it's okay. don't worry about it. we'll play with it how do i make the computer read? yes. yes. yes help speak all hi. i got it that's amazing. okay. wait, let me switch it to bad news. i want to hear what bad news sounds like now i want you to change the desktop background stickies. no, no, no, no, no, no, no. look at him. he's so controlling i can do this for sure. i'm pretty sure i learned some stuff before control panels. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah desktop patterns. let's go wait what sure, whatever they're done done record time. okay david pick a number between 1 and 74 69, duh. okay well. it's so ugly. the bears yay it's terrifying nightmare bears these rocks that was hard. that would have been cool. that's a picture one thing you might not have noticed is that when you close simple text, you didn't actually close it where would you go to find it? how would you switch apps where the heck is that if it was a pc i would do alt tab but that is not working. yeah, i figured it out already. you you kind of did. yes although you were told that by the help so that's again. no. no, i found this i found the top right thing yeah, cuz every time i've hit a button i see it like zoom into that one corner. so i figure there's something here. oh quit follow the quit write a document with formatting okay okay, so everything seems to be under this apple icon right here. what's the mac equivalent of word? well, that's not what i was expecting okay, nevermind if i should style this stuff. oh, no. oh, oh. oh, no. oh scrapbook what that sounds fun. this is just wow clip art repository. oh, well now to write good. you first must take some english classes it's not adobe acrobat. that's for pdfs, right? i am going to win this challenge maybe you've taken some okay, we got it in your high school slash elementary school everything is pretty recognizable. it's cool to see how word processing hasn't really changed over the years. okay, i'll give you a hint this isn't working. no, it's doing it look at you, mr. designer. okay. let's make it bold. yeah, and then we need to get the picture oh my god, you're dragging too far. yeah, i realize i'm saying quit simple text. oh now try out kid pix. oh yes, the sounds of kid pix take me back. you're gonna want to turn that down a bit. no, are you sure? how do i know that was what you're going to do you're not even the first person to do that today. wait, am i not? oh, am i not original? this is my nft i'm really good at making art. i'm gonna make a tree. oh it it just it drops a whole tree wherever you click. oh woah it's the dinosaur. it was such a noisy app and it was wonderful. it was just this din in the computer lab david, you wanna watch fishbowl or ghost? ghost okay, this is getting quite abstract now. yes! this is the new mac address logo? yes, i gotta add a dinosaur. wow games, let's go. oh incredible machine. yes. wow. we have some options here duke nukem 3d jigsaw puzzle, does that count i i guess? where are you going? oh, was it in there? everybody does that okay now, how do you play? holy, i can barely see anything. the resolution is like not existent almost. okay. okay. can i be honest? i've actually never played doom in my life. really? yes. this is my very first time ever. how do i shoot? oh wow what it this is what did i miss out on all my life? there's no jump, huh? can i jump oh oh, no, he scratched me. oh, you gotta watch out for those. i died you died because this tiny window is driving me nuts. here's some cheese and a mouse. oh there's still no floor, all right, we're going through every key. oh god, wait, where'd my gun go? okay. oh, i lost my gun this is the challenge. can i make it up the stairs today? and you've just completed the first level of doom wow a hundred percent kills i'm a gamer, you know, i don't think i've ever seen anybody legitimately die. wait, really? on e1m1 no well, there's a first time for everything. how about we browse the internet? okay, let's do that. well, that's gonna be safari obviously. oh wait no safari yet. netscape? what did you use to browse the internet? no, you're going back there i can't help it. is it in here somewhere? okay, this this came up before i was born. so netscape navigator welcome to the internet of 1996. this is really exciting. 96. this doesn't exist. no lttstore.com? what? what did we make this? what is this? is that hilary duff? what am i looking at? oh, i was so jealous of people who had that phone no, you can't do that. i have to enter a whole url http colon slash slash. okay wow wow this ugly oh, what a great web design goodness, where do we go? what should we do go to behind the gym? all right. oh one triple eight nci x 888 right there, baby $1,000 will get you 32 megs of ram. well, how is your experience with the old mac? would you like to go back to it? it's hard to say that i would like to grow up with it because obviously my experience with computers was a lot smoother. you were able to do a little bit more i feel like at the end i kind of got the hang of it a little bit more would you want to use a mac like this? no, i still would not want to that was chaotic. thank you i hope it works out. thank you for your help. the fun part about this is that i have it set up to automatically proxy through the internet archive. ah, everything is as close to 1996 as it could be. i see there's another browser that is not set up to do that icab which you can try lttstore.com. i don't know about that. okay too old to support https know what else is getting old? these segues to my sponsor cable mod. there's nothing better to look at than impeccable cable management other than you of course you beautiful beast but if you want help with your cables cable mod and phanteks have teamed up to provide custom length cable mod cables for the phanteks revolt power supply the power supply comes without cables so you can purchase the exact cables you need from cable mod so you only pay for the cables you'll use and don't end up with a box full of mysterious cables like your dad and if you're using a phanteks case check out cable mods configurator tool on their website it's got the most popular phanteks cases built right in to help you take the guesswork out of determining exact cable lengths visit cable mod at the links below and pick yourself up some custom cables today if you guys enjoyed this video go check out the one where our whippersnappers tried out windows 98 some of them for the very first time