- just a little more.
(clock ticking) (bell rings)
now! we are finally ready, to fully explore the
hardware of the steam deck, that includes thermals, battery life, and even performance, in an assortment of valve-approved titles that range from, this is
a great experience, to, (vinyl record scratches)
i am really surprised they wanted us to talk about this. i could not be more excited. the seeds of the steam deck
were planted over a decade ago with the announcement of
steam big picture mode. i love that this page is still
out by the way, you guys. and with all the
innovations packed into it, whether you realize it yet or not, you are looking at what is arguably, the most innovative gaming pc in 20 years, more maybe. now, a lot of the secret
sauce is software, but given its current rough edges, we're not gonna be showing that, until valve lifts a separate embargo, but there is still a
lot to jump into here. starting with this
message from our sponsor, project killswitch, very punny name, dbrand, by the way. but there's nothing punny about dbrand's upcoming
case for the steam deck. it kinda looks like their grip phone cases and their horrible attitude had a baby, and then gave it a cheesy name. you can check out the teaser
page at the link down below. (bright electro music) while i can assume that
most of you have watched, our previous steam deck
coverage leading up 'til now, i can't assume that you
remember all the details. so let's blitz through the basics. three configs with identical
key specs, varied storage, and aggressive console-like prices that valve ceo, gabe newell,
described as painful to hit. the highlights are the custom amd soc, featuring four zen 2 processing cores, and rdna 2 graphics, mobile ddr5 memory, and what essentially amounts to, an integrated steam controller, giving gamers a whopping
five z inputs per side, including the joystick clicks, and re-mappable rear paddles that are, in my opinion, perfectly
tuned to be easy to press but nearly impossible
to accidentally mash. in games, you're gonna have the
choice between analog sticks a d-pad, a haptically
enhanced dual touch pad thing, and even onboard gyro controls that by default are
activated by placing a finger on the capacitive surface
of the right joystick. it is an impressive
arsenal of input options that promises to make
everything from shooters to mouse dependent games, like civ, enjoyable with a little
bit of kajiggering. of course, promises mean nothing if the hardware doesn't
live up to the hype. and i want to start with the controller. since my rushed hands-on, and my initial unboxing on short circuit, i have logged hours of gaming
time on the steam deck. and while i can reach
every button comfortably from a neutral, relaxed position, i do find a number of them
a little awkward to use. and i don't really know
how to describe this, other than to say, it's kind of like spooning
someone taller than you. cuddling is fine, but don't try and do
anything too ambitious, or you might strain a muscle. if you have larger hands, you might not share these concerns, but my wife and i both had similar issues, albeit with different buttons. for example, i struggled to reach the shoulders without shifting my grip a little. and she found the abxy was a
little bit awkward for her, but jake had no issues at all. so your mileage may vary. and even for myself, i think
it's a small price to pay for the unprecedented
input flexibility afforded by valves design. and did i even mention
the touch screen yet? did i even mention lttstore.com yet? get a water bottle. and it gets even better. the feel of the sticks, buttons, triggers, and even the d-pad, which
i am very particular about, are all right up there with my
favorite console controllers. the joysticks, in
particular, are miles ahead of every other handheld
that i have touched, with the exception of the aya neo next and valves repair-friendly
approach to the joystick, promises a long gaming life for your deck. of course, a big part of
hardware longevity is cooling. and i'm extremely pleased to say that temperatures were well under control in all of our test scenarios. the thoughtful design of the
deck keeps touch surfaces at or near skin temperature, even during an extended gaming session, which is a big advantage
over more compact, portable gaming pcs, like the aya neo 2021 pro
and the onexplayer mini. and even though the fan
looked kind of wimpy in valve's official tear down video, get subbed by the way 'cause
our own tear down is coming, it managed to do its job
effectively and without complaint even in control, a demanding aaa game on
valves approved list. even in the most aggressive
soc power profile, which allows it to draw its full 25 watts, we saw both cpu and gpu temps that were well within the
range that we'd consider safe, all while remaining at the
reasonable noise levels that we recorded in our tests. one oddity we observed though, the steam deck ran at its peak clock rate for about 15 minutes, after which it appeared to settle into a ever slightly lower clock speed, like on the order of 10
to 20 megahertz slower. now at this time we don't have
a tool to measure fan rpm, but one theory we came up with just now, we have not verified this, is that we might have reached, valve's target gpu temperature. and then when the fan ramped up, maybe the system was left with slightly less power
budget for the soc. hopefully we can dig
into this in more depth in our full review, but even if we don't, i'm comfortable saying
that it's a non concern because performance was nearly identical after it settled in. also, this difference was
not nearly as significant as what we saw on the aya neo 2021 pro. and that is just the tip of the exciteberg when it comes to thermal
and power management. valve's promised tdp and
clock controls mean that, while you can just leave the soc on auto, and for most people we'd
recommend doing just that, and using fps limits to
extend your battery life while offering predictable performance, for the hard cores, you can also expect to be able to fine tune
your power profile, to optimize for your exact use case. wanna emulate ps3 games and need your cpu going hard for example? you'll be able to. and i'm really excited to see what the community
comes up with here. and the community for this thing? do not kid yourself, is gonna be enormous. like i've seen haters out there. they're like, this thing
is not gonna take off. you are wrong. and now that i can show you
these performance numbers you're gonna see just how wrong you were. it's important to keep in mind
that valve did hand select each of the games for our
preview embargo today. but i also haven't seen
anything to make me believe that their goal was to mislead us about the deck's capabilities. so kicking things off. control is a directx game
with no native linux port but a platinum rating
on protondb, meaning, that it should run perfectly
on linux out of the box. and that's exactly what we saw. more than perfect, i'd say, given that the steam
deck absolutely ran away with the performance crown here. another worth mentioning
side note is that, on a screen this size,
even at the low preset, control looks absolutely amazing. what a time to be alive, right? continuing on, devil
may cry 5 is arguably, an even bigger win for the steam deck, which basically never dipped under 70 fps on medium settings with
anti-aliasing enabled. okay, it's cheapo basic
anti-aliasing, but come on! and it looks great. ghostrunner continues
valve's dominance here with the steam deck putting
up a clear win and directx 11 and creating a new standard for mobile gaming
performance in directx 12. i mean the deck's lows here, managed to nearly outstrip
the average frame rates of competing devices
powered by intel xe graphics and amd's last gen,
vega architecture gpus. but it also, isn't a completely
one sided fight here. dead cells is the first of our, why did valve want us
to look at this games. on the surface it actually
seems like the steam deck puts up an embarrassing fight here, coming in dead last. but we also observed that even though we
unlocked the frame rate soc power consumption was
quite low in this game. we've got a couple of theories about this, maybe around optimization, or valve doing something in the background to save power rather
than push past 150 fps. but we're not sure at this time, and we have no reassuring
explanation for this next one. massive credit to valve
first and foremost, for getting forza horizon
5, a microsoft game, running at all. but while the in-game benchmark reports industry leading performance here, the gameplay experience does not hold up. both jake and i experienced
what i would describe as kind of a physics
rubber banding effect, where the animation stays smooth, true to the frame rate report, but the experience of playing the game is uneven and jarring. it kind of reminds me of when
a video call gets buffered and then the speaker's voice goes slow, and then goes fast to catch up, and then slow and fast to catch up. but issues with forza
aside, two things are clear. one is that the hardware
is damn impressive. i mean, i'm sure that if we had
a working windows gpu driver in time for this preview, the steam deck would've peeled away from the competition in forza as well. and the second is that valve software team and the open source
community are just s tier. there's no other way to put it. the fact that any of this works at all is a modern technological miracle. there's a lot more to
gaming than fps, however. and honestly, this is where
the steam deck both shines and loses some of its luster. i mean, it speaks volume about
the efficiency of the apu that amd's custom soc
division put together that in spite of its mere
40 watt hour battery, that's almost 20% lower
than the competition, the steam deck puts up better
battery longevity numbers than its competitors. that eight plus hours under light loads is particularly interesting to me as a retro emulation enthusiast. i'm gonna put a lot of
hours on this thing. but it's not even the star
of the show in my opinion. compared to the onexplayer mini and everything that i've seen from aya, including the limited
edition next preview unit that they sent me, the screen on the steam deck stands out as just plain better. it's not shockingly vibrant
like the switch oled, nor does its 1280 by 800 resolution give it the sharpness
of the onexplayer mini, but it's a very complete package. deep enough blacks, that you won't find the glow
of black bars distracting. indiscernible input lag in motion blur, and out of the box color performance that isn't gonna win any awards, but didn't look off either until we'd run diagnostic tests
in a controlled environment. the best thing about it to me though, was the excellent, exemplary
job that valve has done of making the display
usable under any conditions. the anti-glare coating
on the 512 gig version does a fantastic job of
minimizing reflections in daylight without having any noticeable, in my experience, effect on sharpness. but i should make it clear that i don't think i would
personally spend the extra if i didn't need more storage, since i find myself, doing the vast majority
of my gaming at night and regardless of screen finish, the steam deck is by far, the most comfortable handheld that i own to look at in a dimly lit environment. it just gets so much
dimmer than anything else and details like that, really illustrate the care and attention that valve has poured into this project. do not underestimate the
difficulty of producing a screen that manages acceptable color performance across such a wide range
of brightness settings. and believe it or not, the screen pales in
comparison to the speakers. i was able to use bluetooth, or three and a half millimeter headphones. no problem. they performed as expected,
but the speakers, man. the other devices that i'm reminded of when gaming on the steam deck, are the original htc one and the latest generation m1 macbook. (engine revving) (car crashes) like to be clear, they're still tiny speakers, valve can't bend the laws of physics, but i was genuinely surprised that a pair of drivers this small could create a sound stage this wide as i have cars ripping
past me in forza horizon 5. i mean, i guess given the performance of both the nearfield speakers and the microphone array
on the index vr headset, i shouldn't be that surprised. so, valve, can you hurry up and make
a gaming headset already? i promise you, it would immediately obsolete, most of the other crap that exists, and you would sell millions. seriously, i promise. but i said it wasn't all good, right? i wanna talk about haptics. by valve's own admission, rumble was an afterthought
on the steam deck. compared to the space,
power and cost downsides, they felt that the benefit was too small, and respectfully, i disagree. even if i hadn't already
experienced the tight, responsive, linear motors in the aya neo pro 2021 i would have immediately
noticed the loose, cheap, toy feel of the touch pads, (motor whirring) both when using them as a mousing surface, and when they're providing
pseudo haptic feedback for the rest of the controller. there's just no nice way to put this. at the moment, haptics on
this device are a poo stain on an otherwise crisp, white sheet. and valve says, they're
gonna fix it with software but we're gonna have to wait for the full review embargo to find out if i need to stop mashing x, for doubt over here, sorry. here's my x button. though, valve hasn't given me
much reason to doubt them yet. they claimed at the hands on
that both the internal ssd and the microsd card would
manage similar load times. and i didn't believe them, but so far it appears
as though i was wrong. i still do need to get
more detail from them about whether this involved
some kind of fancy trickery or if you can actually just
copy paste the game folder off of your other desktop
onto the steam deck. and i also need to find out what's gonna happen as game titles, that are optimized for
the blazing fast storage of the ps5 and the xbox series, start to arrive. but for the time being, i can say this, you can expect to slot
a terabyte of storage into your steam deck, with very little compromise
to the experience. and what that means is
that if you're brave enough to tear down your deck and upgrade it with the latest from micron you could rock as much as
three terabytes of storage in this thing. it's not as much as the eight terabytes that i have in my aya neo next, right now, thanks to its support for
full size 2280 m.2 drives, but that kind of brings
up an awkward conversation that we needed to have at some point. i have spent a lot of this video talking about the steam deck compared to competing handheld gaming pcs. but the truth is, that there aren't any
competing handheld gaming pcs. i mean, obviously there are
other handheld gaming pcs. we showed them in the video. it's just that they don't
compete with the steam deck in the same way that a bmw m5 doesn't compete with a tesla model 3. sure, they both have four wheels and they get you from point
a to point b, and quickly. but those vehicles are built
for very different customers and at very different price points. that's the bottom line here. starting at us$400, the steam deck is less than half the price of anything else we
looked at in this video. so i could complain that the
tactile feel of the steam and quick access menu buttons are poo poo. or that the width of the deck means, that playing in unusual positions, like lying on my side in bed, is a little uncomfortable, 'cause my top arm is up and
the blood drains out of it. but i'm not gonna complain
about those things, because it is half the price. and even the top spec one, has a pretty compelling value proposition with the anti glare screen and the surprisingly nice,
included carrying case. and, this is the real kicker, if valve follows through on even half of their game compatibility promises, the steam deck is projected to have more titles available at launch, than any other game console in history. so it's time to order a steam
deck, ladies and gentlemen, is what i would say if
i was irresponsible, because the software is still
make or break for this puppy. and valve has some big questions
to answer about funky stuff like the game engine rubber banding that we saw in forza horizon 5, game compatibility
across the steam library, and things like their
auto resuming game play. let's say your steam deck wasn't online the last
time you were playing, are you gonna overwrite
a bunch of your progress when you switch to your desktop? we're gonna have a lot
to talk about next time when we get to look at the software. and i have a lot to tell you about project killswitch. that's right, dbrand made a case for the steam deck. i have no idea how they
got their hands on one to prototype this thing, but it looks like, kind
of like their grip case. it's got this, sort of ruggedized,
rubberized finish to it. looks like it's gonna be
extremely comfortable. and one of the features i'm
really looking forward to, is the kickstand in the back, because that is one thing
valve did not include that i think nintendo made pretty clear, is a good feature to have. having a little kickstand, you can plug in your dongle get a wireless controller
plugged into this thing, and that is gonna be, a freaking awesome experience on the plane that valve just doesn't
really have an answer to, out of the box. so guys, you can check
out the product page on dbrand's website. we're gonna have that link down below. they're bad people that
make good products. that's all you really
need to know about them. jk, jk, love you dbrand. and lots of love to valve for sending this over for the preview. i look forward to
covering it in more depth as we go forward. did i include an ltt store
mention on this video? - no.
- oh, crap. let's go back and find a spot to put one.