- [mrbeast] you guys spammed
me to plant 20 million trees on twitter, reddit, all
over my comment section. so i made it happen. today, we will be
planting 20 million trees. and we put 'em in the hole. now we need mulch. put the mulch around the tree, and we hydrate it. and there we go.
(bell dings) and again. hole, tree, mulch, water. and before we go any
further, this is sarah. she's a tree planting expert. will this tree grow to be big and healthy? - i'm gonna look and
see if i can pull on it and it doesn't pull out
of the planting hole. (triumphant jingle)
so good job there. - only 19,999,980 more trees. let's go! (all cheer)
yeah! - oh yeah.
- sturdy? - oh, very sturdy.
(bell dings) - you could tug on this with a rope and it wouldn't come out.
(bell dings) - chris, i need help. can
you massage my tree for me? - massage your tree? - i can't get it out of this pot. - dude, it's like rock solid in here. there you go.
(bell dings) - so talking to trees
makes them grow faster? - huh? - grow! what do you want
the planet to die, come on. - grow.
- can you grow! - do you see the sky? it's so beautiful. - you're gonna be a house
for birds and stuff. (hands whacking) - you got toughen these trees up. look at this. no movement. so the reason we're spacing
the trees eight feet apart, is so the roots have to grow out and they don't have to compete. - it's kind of weird to put
mulch around a growing tree, 'cause it's grinding up
all of its relatives, and spreading it around them. - bro. (upbeat music) - all right, well, it's started to rain. at least now we don't
have to water the trees. no, but seriously, we wanna
plant 20 million trees and a little bit of
rain never hurt anyone. - if a tree falls in the woods, and no one's around to hear
it, does it make noise? yes. it's still a tree. - [cameraman] plant a tree
in the middle of the forest- - hold on, i've gotta
do something important. - oh okay.
timber! (explodes) - why are you mad? - what is this? (bells dings) - it's a hole.
- with a tree in it. - look at this tree! look.
(jeans squelching) you see that? (man screaming) (upbeat music) - after planting all day, we only managed to plant 300 trees. - which is less than 20
million and my back hurts. - i put out a tweet and
i have tons of people coming here tomorrow to plant trees. - i think i've got an idea for a drone. - so i haven't mentioned this
yet, but this is mark rober. this is his channel. he used to work at nasa,
he put this thing on mars. he does a lot of cool things. he's gonna try with the drone, and we're gonna try with people. - play to your strengths. - may the, the... alright. it's day number two and we
brought a lot more people. (crowd cheering) and now we're gonna try to
plant the 20 million trees. so step one is we need to
give everyone their tree. - can i have a fist bump?
- yes. - oh my god. - here's your tree.
- i shall name him russell. - russell. - look at all these people. we're easily gonna hit 20 million. (electronic upbeat tune) and now it's time to begin. let's plant the trees. (crowd cheering)
unless you're him. he already planted it. - you're doing great.
- great, good job. do you need help? - if you would like to help, go for it. - dig right here, seems
like the best spot. - the hole's too big. (dramatic music) - tree review.
(rock music) see the tug test? you don't want any
oxygen in the root system or the tree won't survive. what are these people doing? that's a solid tree. - that's a solid boy?
- that's a solid tree. - okay, good.
- that's great. whoever planted that, amazing. (upbeat music) make sure you want to do a donut. can i believe in you?
(bell dings) thank you so much for helping
us do this, by the way. how'd you hear about this? - oh, i saw the tweet. had to hop in. - ooh. not bad.
- fits well, i like it. thanks for helping with my tree, man. - of course.
- appreciate it. - nice to meet you.
- nice to meet you as well. - i was honestly like, i have to do this. this is a once in a lifetime opportunity. - we're gonna get to the 20 mill, right? - oh 100%. no doubt.
- alright, cool. - thank you. - interview conducted. look at all these people. let's do a tree test. the way you know if they did a good job is if you can pull on it,
and that one you can pull on. - you're killing it.
- thank you. - [cameraman] how many trees
have you planted so far today? - i have dug 473 holes. - really?
- yes. - how many did you dig?
- oh my goodness. - hey you, digging.
- bro, how's it going? - i don't know. how's it going? - it's good. it's good.
- yeah? - it's pretty fun to plant some trees. - it is pretty fun to plant some trees. - you know.
- you know. - earth does a lot. - earth does do a lot. (upbeat music)
(bell dinging) - do a little tug test. oh, she's nice. oh, she's nice. we just need some-
- there we go. - that's a good tree, man.
- good job chris. - dude, thanks.
- got 'em! - there we go. - he gets a high five, you know, whatever. - the last tree.
- thanks chandler. - as you can see, there
are a ton of trees here. now, we actually grabbed
a drone shot beforehand. so here's the drone
shot of the empty field. look at it. it's empty. and here's the drone shot now.
is that a lot of extra trees? - yes, it's quite extra. we had to. yeah. - cool. unfortunately, despite having
a large number of people, we came nowhere near close
to planting 20 million trees. but i don't wanna let you guys down. so i devised a plan where we can actually
plant 20 million trees, but i need your help. we partnered with the largest nonprofit tree planting organization
in the world, arbor day. but we need your help. every dollar donated, they
will plant a tree. watch. here's a dollar and i donated it. - another dollar, another tree. - here's $10 and i just donated it. (bell dings) this is $30 and guess what
happens when i donate it? (bell dings) even chandler can do it. - another one. another one. - yep. - and another one. - arbor day and their
partners are the pros. they've planted hundreds
of millions of trees, they'll make sure they have
a high rate of survivability and they genuinely do care. if you donate a dollar, something like this ends up in the ground. and given enough time, this
will turn into this masterpiece. now one thing i want to address. i personally haven't always been the most environmentally friendly. we've burnt the box for it and we've done many other dumb things. and a lot of you might be of
the mindset of the old me. that was basically someone
else will figure it out. but that's not how it works. we genuinely need all the help we can get. and honestly, i've done everything i can. i got a bunch of fans together and we planted thousands of trees. me and mark have invested
months of time behind the scenes into getting this all together. and i'm personally planting
a hundred thousand trees, aka a hundred thousand dollars donation. i've literally tried my
best to do everything i can. and now it's your guys' turn. you guys have been
spamming my comment section and spamming my mentions on twitter telling me to do something. and now i wanna see that same energy. we only have one earth and it's important we take care of it. recently, lots of not so great things have been happening to forests and people just keep making
fun of our generation for retweet activism and not
actually doing something. which is why we created teamtrees.org with the help of the arbor day foundation. this is your chance to make a difference. for every dollar you
donate here on youtube or at teamtrees.org, a
tree will be planted. and the arbor day foundation are really good at what they do. these trees will have an extremely high rate of survivability. please donate now. don't push it off till
later, you might forget. this is our chance to
show the world we care. teamtrees.org, donate there or donate using the donate
button below the video. thank you. (bell dinging) (bomb exploding) (man screaming)
(bell dinging)