- this video is of andrew
huberman taking his first jujitsu class with me at 10th planet in austin, texas. gabe tuttle, who you see
explaining the techniques, is a head instructor there. jujitsu is a martial art and a fascinating game of human chess. sometimes it is practiced with a gi, sometimes without the
gi, like in this case. it involves using detailed techniques to attain dominant
positions that allow you to control your opponent's body and then to apply submissions
like breaking their arm or choking them unconscious. but stopping right before that as
your opponent taps twice to designate that they give up. this double tap performed thousands of times in a jujitsu journey is the dismantling of the ego that i think is a very powerful
tool for the development of the human mind,
scientific and otherwise. here andrew learns how to
take his opponent's back with an arm drag and
submit them with a choke. i wanted to capture this moment because hopefully it's inspiring to see a world class scientist like andrew take on something new and
difficult with a beginner's mind. maybe this will inspire
you to try jujitsu as well. - i honestly have no
idea what i'm doing, lex. (andrew chuckles) zero. - [lex] fortune favors
the bold, so good luck. - [gabe] so we're gonna start
up in the butterfly position. first of all, we're gonna be working is our dominant arm here, okay? we're gonna be working to the back first. (class participants talking) so we're gonna hit the trap here. boom. right across. attach your chest to that shoulder. perfect. now you can move. - [andrew] yep. - and i can either come to him or pull down into me. so watch this, this move real quickly. so i can hit my arm drag here. there we go. looking for lap control. and here i wanna actually mirror my hand. so i just scoot out here and i'm keeping good
tension with my elbow here, as i pull lex down. boom. and then i can set my bottom hook. i come right into attack my seatbelt. sometimes we can attack the
neck straight away from here. all right. - is he gonna try and
stand up or it's always? - he could still. okay, so the arm drag
still works from standing. even if lex pops up and he's like in a standing position, i can still get straight the same way. - mind if i just go for the whole thing?
- yeah, sure. yeah, i wanna see how it-- - this is this claw and he swims the other one over and it's this squeeze, but he also brings out his
chest like that, right? - yeah. - and then you tap on me to cut. yep. twice.
- yeah. - sorry.
- twice. - i should have mentioned that. okay, i forgot that you
don't know how to tap. so, (lex slaps andrew's arm) this is the universal signage. - two, two. - twice. - it's i'm screwed. (lex and andrew laughing) - got it.
- i had enough. okay, now one more time. he's swimming this through. and it's a choke like this. he's also saying if your chin is all the way down, this is also, if you feel the crush, i have a lot more crush where that's from. that can either break the
jaw or still choke you. god. - off to the side. - you got it right. boom. perfect. so this the claw, like that's perfect right there swim that through. squeeze and expand your chest. (lex chuckles) yeah.
- okay. - nice. - was that.. - that's perfect. - you're built for this joke. (andrew and lex laughing) - i don't know. so rather than try and
flip him on his back? - correct. yeah, i'm going under the armpit now and reach for the far side of the neck. so now from here, once i
get control of the neck, i can let the arm drag go. that arm comes all the way around and i'm just pinching the back
of his head with my elbow. this has to just go straight. turn your elbow up, find your timing here. - i see. - now you can kind of
ratchet your grip in deeper. you feel that? so just turn that elbow back up. this guy comes around this way.
- stays out. okay.
- there it is. yep. - i see. so there's a logic there. basically you're trying
to get into a place where you can use your own, like, musculature.
- yeah. - rather than just battling. - this arm and choke or blood choke, also. so high forearm, drawing
up on the far side, i'm pushing shoulder into the
neck joint here on your side. - i like it. i can see how this would become addicting. - yeah.
- [gabe] oh yeah. - just 'cause there's so many... - [gabe] especially like
if you're a very like cerebral guy, like you
are, like lex is here. right arm. - yep. you got it. - there we go. - and then, curl your left arm. - yep. (lex taps on andrew) - yeah, just perfect. - you just boa constrictor. - yeah, boa constrictor. i mean, you're right. i mean when you get, maybe
you know about this actually, i don't know what the visual, why is there butterflies? - when you start to choke out? - yeah. - because your eyes are part of your brain and they get, they demand so much blood and glucose all the time, you're cutting off
blood supply of the eye. - but why the visual artifacts? - oh, why do you get the little-- just spontaneous transmission
of neurons in the eye. - oh cool. - just, yeah. - that's cool. - when you see stars,
like if you get hit hard and you see stars, it's
'cause your spontaneous firing of cells. - yeah, i get that with the choke. like i just got that now. - oh really?
- there was little stars. (andrew taps on lex) - there it is. - so it's this shoulder going in there. that's the one blood and then the my hand on the other side. that's the other one. - yeah, you can feel
the blood just start to tunnel up. is that too fast? did i cinch you in too fast? - no, that was perfect. that's just really tight. (lex chuckles) - sorry, sorry. this is what i was saying, like sparring with somebody
who knows how to do it, because they can do it light. - the butterflies are back. (lex and andrew chuckling) - yeah, i mean. - he's being kind. lex friedman is strong. - i was worried i'd be going to sleep with your technique. - you're strong. that russian grip is insane. - so yeah, if you stand up. that's exactly the game, the other side of the game
that we looked at today. so we looked at arm drags, but those only work when you're coming in. when you're coming, if you're going away, i'm gonna threaten you by coming up and then you are gonna
want to push me down. that down. and you'll be a little bit
more nervous about me coming up so, you're gonna pressure
yourself into me. - i see. - and that leaves the arm drag. - got it. - so like that's the yin and yang. the push and pull. since we're in this choke position. here. and leaves pressuring this way. yep. that's called head and arm choke. that's rogan's favorite choke. so it's this. this. - [andrew] yeah, that feels very helpless. - yeah. and i could just like sit here, relax for a while and just make it very unpleasant for you. (andrew taps lex) - when you talk about
relinquishing the ego, it's like, yeah, you have to be willing to let somebody get real close to you. like, mount you. flip you.
- sure. - it's, you know, it's not something i'm used to on any basis.
- yeah, of course. - it's really a beautiful sport. - how do you feel? first class in jujitsu? - love it. it was amazing. i think i'm hooked.