- this video is sponsored by keeps. oneplus phones used to be my dream phone. oneplus forgot the
purpose of its existence. it isn't the stock
android flagship anymore. they are lost as a company. totally disappointed
in what they've become. it feels like they just
make rebadged oppos. just another kind of cool chinese phone. over-promising and under-delivering. i feel disconnected from the brand. r.i.p. oneplus. so this isn't a video i
really thought i would make. i mean, i have been a
fan of oneplus for years. i mean, how could you
not love the scrappy, never-settle startup? that promised to stick it to the big guys like samsung and apple. i mean, one of the smartest
things that oneplus ever did was from day one, they
started with that laser focus on enthusiasts. now, sure, oneplus had
their fair share of issues, i mean, they certainly
didn't have the best cameras, but when you consider that
you had clean software, a high-end processor, a great performance, and you had all of that while
paying a fraction of the price of a new galaxy or a new iphone, i mean the appeal, it
wasn't hard to understand, but things have changed a
lot in the last few years. (bell dongs) so what really pushed me over the edge into making this video
was the recent discovery that oneplus has been secretly
nerfing the performance of their latest flagships. now, oneplus is not exactly a company that has a clean track record, i mean, they've certainly
got up to some shenanigans in the past when it comes to benchmarks. so you're probably
familiar with how oneplus sends out phones to reviewers
to take a look at, right? a lot of companies do this. however, in the past, some of these phones
were slightly modified to deliver higher speeds
than the retail units. in some cases, oneplus have
actually shipped devices that could recognize when
you were running a benchmark and crank the cpu all the way up to 100%, which is not something they could do for pretty much anything else. recently, anandtech discovered something much more nefarious, oneplus
were running the phone at a lower performance level
than it's advertised as. so to understand why this matters so much, we've got to take a quick
detour into nerd town. so oneplus uses the
qualcomm snapdragon 888 chip inside the oneplus 9, which
is the exact same processor that's used in a lot of
other android flagships, such as the galaxy s21. it utilizes a variation
of the big.little design that's basically standard
on most mobile devices, including on iphones. put simply, it puts together four small, power-efficient cpu cores alongside four higher performing cores. basically, it uses those performance cores when it needs it, but
it saves battery life when using the weaker
cores when it doesn't. make sense, right? so this is a very powerful setup that works great on devices
such as the galaxy s21. but on the oneplus, well,
let's just say that (beep) is out of whack. what oneplus have done here, is that they have built a blacklist inside the operating system that will either throttle the performance
cores or even prevents them from lighting up altogether in most apps. which means that the real
world ramifications of this, is that if your phone sees you
running a copy of geekbench, for example, it'll run
completely normally, your benchmark will be
exactly what you would expect. but if you're running most other things like, oh, i don't know, chrome, it will not light up
those performance cores, meaning that you've paid money for a phone that is delivering only a
fraction of the performance that it is actually capable of. when called out for this, oneplus, they at first gave a blanket statement on how they optimize for battery life, which just doesn't hold water, because even with this throttling, the oneplus can't match
the kind of battery life samsung is able to deliver with the exact same chip in the s21 line. think about this, if it were
apple who had done this, and apple is a good analogy here because they have gotten
into some serious (beep) for throttling phones secretly. so you might remember a few years ago, there was a lot of drama around the idea that some iphones were losing performance, and the result of that was
that apple were secretly throttling the phones to
keep them from basically pulling too much power
from their old batteries and essentially crashing the phones. so they would slow the phone down in able to keep the phone at least usable, but in return, you were
slowly losing performance without really understanding why. now that isn't great and they
then since have changed it where you can actually turn it on and off, that toggle in the settings. but at least that was for a
reason, it was on older phones and it was because the phones
were literally crashing if they didn't do something about it. and to be fair, oneplus has
gone on to backtrack on this. so they have planned to add
that exact same kind of toggle for like a performance selectorx. look, i like oneplus, they've gotten a pass for this in a way that basically no other company
should have, in my opinion, i just can't in good conscience,
turn a blind eye to this. it's ridiculous, right? this is not an old phone
that can't continue to work on an old battery, this
is a brand new flagship that they are massively
cutting the performance on to give you a little
bit better battery life, but they didn't tell anyone. the only way anyone even knows about this is because anandtech found it out and they were caught red-handed. thank you to keeps for
sponsoring this video. did you know that two out of
three guys will experience some form of male pattern
baldness by the time they're 35? with keeps, a licensed doctor will review your information online and recommend the right hair
loss treatment plan for you. then your treatment is shipped directly to your door every three months. it's a more affordable option since keeps offers generic versions of the fda approved
medications for hair loss. prevention really is key. keeps treatments can take up
to four to six months or more to start seeing results, so
it's important to act fast. the sooner you start using
keeps, the more hair you'll save. if you're ready to take
action to prevent hair loss, go to keeps.com/austinevans, or click the link in the description to receive 50% off your first order. that's keeps.com/austinevans. so what exactly is going on with oneplus? now in those early days, they delivered excellent performance,
value and they were cool. by enthusiasts for enthusiasts
was absolutely the vibe of how they positioned their
first phone back in 2014, the oneplus one. so this was a incredibly hyped phone, it's hard to understand how excited people were about this phone today. and we just so happen to have a brand new, still sealed in box, oneplus
one to take a look at. all right, and we have the
minty fresh oneplus one still with the plastic
and the sandstone back. wow. you know what immediately surprises
me about this phone? it's thin. i've never held a oneplus one before. this actually feels far
thinner than i had expected. (austin gasps) how does it still have battery? what? i did not expect that to work. and you know what? i mean, obviously this is
not exactly a stress test, but i mean, the responsiveness
doesn't feel bad, right? like this does not feel
like an ancient device. this is 4k video on the oneplus one. so i'll let you, fine viewer, be the judge of how far
camera quality has come. but let's just say even by 2014 standards, this wasn't exactly amazing. from the very beginning, there were, let's just say, lingering questions, about what the oneplus
company was all about. to understand, let me
introduce bbk electronics, a massive chinese tech
conglomerate that owns brands such as, oppo, realme, vivo, and oneplus. except, at least according
to oneplus at the time, they were definitely
independent, right? definitely. however, the ceo and co-founder
of oneplus, pete lau, had come straight from being
the vice-president of oppo, one of those bbk brands, which was also the same company who directly invested in
oneplus and allowed oneplus to share their supply chain
and manufacturing space. so that beautiful new oneplus one that took the tech world by storm, it bore an awfully interesting resemblance to the oppo find 7a from its
very much not-parent company. (austin coughs sarcastically) in quite a few of the follow-up devices, ranged from sharing some parts, to basically being identical
hardware to oppo devices. android central, all the way back in 2018, did a breakdown of many oneplus phones, and it's pretty clear
that while oneplus devices aren't just rebadged oppo phones, that in many cases, it's hard to argue that there's a lot more
than just a little, sharing the supply chain going on. so there was a leaked
memo dated from june, 2021 that spelled things out pretty clearly, the oneplus brand has been integrated into oppo since late 2020, and should be fully
integrated by the end of 2021. oneplus will continue to exist
as a somewhat distinct brand. but to me, it's tough
to see this as anything other than the plucky,
the never-settle startup being watered down and absorbed into the larger overall oppo brand. in fact, we've already
started to see this. they announced back in july,
that oneplus' excellent, clean oxygenos, and oppo's
somewhat, less clean coloros, would be merging their code bases. look, there are advantages
for oneplus having access to the larger resources that come with being integrated into
the oppo, bbk umbrella. but do you think that the
price for growth can come at the cost of completely losing that "for enthusiasts by enthusiasts" mantra that made oneplus such a
cult hit in the first place? it's hard to see the future of oneplus being anywhere near
what it was in the past. they will continue to make phones. they are really oppo's and
bbk's really only major foothold in the north american market, for example, but i don't think the soul
of oneplus is coming back. and anecdotally, a lot of the people who i've known at oneplus for years, have left over the last 6 to 12 months. it's not the same
company that it once was. and it's fine. enthusiast brands all around the world who were making these niche
phones, such as lg and sony, have been sort of ramping
down their devices, because at this point,
if you're not samsung, you're not oneplus, you're not xiaomi, it's difficult to really make a phone which is going to stand out. but oneplus had that market, and they had it for a very long time. and it's sad, honestly. it's sad to see the brand,
not go out with a bang, but almost with a whimper
as it becomes generic. businesswise, it's
probably the right move. but for enthusiasts, for
myself, for probably you, i don't think there's
any other way to put it, than oneplus have settled.