- this is a tesla model 3. all of you get in it. - are we going on a trip? - how do you open the door? - press in on the handle. - oh this sucks. - last one of you to leave this car gets to keep it. - ooh. - it was just under $50,000, it was about 47 grand. so basically whoever leave
this last gets $47,000. - do you know how to turn
off the windshield wipers? - let me just message
elon musk on twitter. how long are you gonna
survive in this car? - long enough. - longer than chandler and tareq. - 12 days. - i heard you have a diaper. - yeah, and that's what's gonna make me. - so how long do you think this will go? - as long as i'm in here. i'm not worried about these guys, it's gonna be me and chris. - can you just try to
survive 12 hours or so? - yeah, that'll be easy.
- so elon musk, what do you think of this
challenge going on in your tesla? - that's him agreeing, he liked it. - gotcha, thanks for
hosting "meme review". - look how fast it's going. wow, the car's going 24 hours per hour. - just to clarify by leaving the car i mean putting one foot on the ground. so technically they can open the door and put their feet on the door. but if i yank this and his
feet touched the ground, he's out, he doesn't get this tesla. - yank it, yank it yank it, yank it, yank it, yank it. - all right, jake i'ma need your phone, i need everyone's phones, or you guys are gonna be in here too long. - we have a tablet in front of us. - if you have your
phone in the next minute then you're out. where's chandler's phone? chandler, give me your phone. give me your phone. don't call 911, oh, i almost hit send. we have all the phones, if you need to text someone or anything your phones are right here,
right below elon musk. - dude, are you just gonna hug that? - yes, i'm hugging my blanket, it's my blanket slash
pillow slash snuggle buddy. - is that your security blanket dude? - yes. - give me your blanket. - it's my thunder blanket. you don't touch my thunder buddy. anyway... - hey, if you want some memes, here's a picture of elon musk. - oh yeah. - so the goal to winning
this is just naps. - i'm saying jake might get out soon, because look at his knees, his knees are struggling right now. - i am comfortable. - hey chris, feel free
to lean your chair back. - so garrett man, i think you start a
tickle fight right here. - a tickle fight? - yeah dude. - you literally just grabbed my breast. - you have breasts? what, i didn't know you have breasts. - it's a term. - did you have consent? - no consent. - okay, if we're being honest, the first one out's probably gonna be... - yeah, yeah, you're right . - hey. - i didn't say anything. - pay attention to the road. jimmy there's room. - no, no. - jimmy there isn't room in the car. - don't forget guys, whichever one of you guys leaves last gets a $50,000 car. - oh, so that's why we're here. - it's so advanced. - woo, chris are you hot, are you buddy? you hot buddy? - turn that down bro. - chandler knows he's not gonna win it, so he's just determined to break it. - that's not a bad idea bro. you're not gonna win. - i'm taking this, you can't
lose if you destroy the prize. - yeah, i'm taking this out. - he's literally almost
broke this car already. - do you know how to
work it? because i do. - you just got a jeep. - you have a family, ha. - you have a loving family, ha, got you. - you have dogs, and a cat and a wife. - ooh, got me. - and a house. i got a truck because i'm chris. - everyone get ready, get your doors open, everyone good? you will have 20 seconds when i say g-o, but actually say the word,
you'll have 20 seconds. if you're not in the car by
the end of the 20 seconds you're out. don't touch the ground yet. and go. - go, go, go, go, go. - all right, you guys have now rotated, we will rotate again in one hour, no touching the ground. - i'm gonna throw up, i get motion sickness in the back. someone switch with me. oh no. i get seasick. hey, did you know you can plug your ears and your nose at the same time? get off of me. - i'm not doing anything. - you're pushing me. - look at me.
- garrett, stop. stop. - ah, he's touching me. - chandler, back up. - stop groping. - you're crushing my feet. - get out, get out. - stop messing with the car. - no, you can move your seat, i can do this. - i'm meditating. - are you out? the hat touched the ground. - what the... - open the door and stand up. - they're all peeing right
now at the same time. what is happening? don't pee inside the car, it's so close to the steering wheel. - everybody shh. [music] chandler can't pee with people around [music] oh my god. - hey, hey, take that off. get off the car. put it on the floor. chandler didn't even pee yet. - it has to be literally leaking out for me to be able to
pee in front of people. even if there's someone in
the bathroom i have to wait. dude i'm about to myself. it's peaking. it's like mount everest
and i'm at the top. - he really installed
fart noises in the car? - i'm crying. - do i need to make a left turn? - yeah. a what? - it farts. - chandler how are you doing? - good, i gotta poop. - thanks.
- i'm not done talking. - oh, okay. - i'm good and whale.
- all right, one out of 10, if we guess the same number
he said he'll get out. all right chandler,
the odds are one in 10. chandler said the odds
are one in 10, do it. give me a countdown. - one, two, three. - one.
- one. - at least you get 100 bucks. - at least you can get out. - let's go. - just gotta keep the streak of losing first, right? - i'm waiting for the big big prize. - this is the big prize, it's the biggest prize. - there's been a car and
a house, what is bigger? - chandler's like, "when
it's a yacht maybe i'll try, but just $50,000 doesn't interest me." - i'm very sad. you have to ask me a question eric. - oh, what are you feeling right now? - well, it was a fun time. - what do you think about the tesla? - all right guys, it is
time for your next switch. go. five. four. three. two. one. - i'm out now, my back's starting to hurt. - it's over 20 seconds. - being a big guy it's really hard. - jake is out. - that's calm, i don't
need a car, i'm good. let them fight it out. - what are you gonna do instead? - poop. - okay. - got some poop building up.
- that's good. - guys, jake is now out, there is now three of you. chandler, of course,
we knew was gonna lose. - yeah, obviously. - jake.
- i figured. - why did he leave so early? - because his back hurt, and he probably had to
go work out or something. - there's three of you, and one of you is walking
away with a $50,000 car. - that would be i. - but you all three
think you are the person, but there's only one. - to think is to know. - you have to believe in yourself. i've been meditating, i
even worked out for this, i sat down yesterday a couple of times. - wow, good job, you sat
down a couple of times. - anyways, thanks for the
great and enticing interview, i'm gonna sit here and
endure this challenge a little bit with them. become one with the car. garrett call your dad. what's up leon? - yo dad, i'm trying
to win this challenge. - are we in the middle
of a challenge right now? - yeah, we're in the middle of a tesla, the last one to leave this tesla keeps it. who do you think is gonna win?
- i don't know tareq as well, so i'm gonna have to go
with garrett and chris. i'm gonna go with garrett. - yeah, let's go. - but garrett's wearing
a diaper right now. - he's willing to take
a deuce in his pants for that tesla bro. - let's hit up your mom. - hey, what's up? - hey. - i'm in a tesla, trying to win it. - if you do not win that tesla you're out of the will. - the wheel? - the will, sorry. - not the wheel, the will. - oh, the will. hey tareq's brother. basically there's three
people in this tesla, the last to leave keeps it. i don't think your brother's gonna win, but do you? - oh no, no, he's gonna win. - yeah, there's good shots. - uh.
- uh. - i'm tired man. - i'm the best tesla driver
you've ever seen boy. oh. - how are you doing?
eight hours in garrett. - i'm really hungry. - all right, i'll get you some food. - so we got food, let's see what's in it. well, it's an animal cracker, nice. - oh, what is that, is that some apples? - apples for you guys, some health food. - oh man, i can't do this
challenge any longer. - all right tareq, eight hours in, how you doing? - i feel great, i'm doing
great, i can do another eight. - how about another eight days? - oh, easily. - eight hours in, how are you doing? - i'm doing great. i'm trying to find okinawa
on the map of japan. - that was my tap of support. - you wanna use this? it's right here, you can use it. here, you just you take the top off. - you trying to tell me i smell chris? - no, i'm just saying
it's literally right here. - like this, right? - no, pull your shirt down. - nah, i'm good dude. - right here. - no.
- okay. i'm gonna go up top. - i did say as long as you
nothing touches the ground you're still in. it's slippery, he's slipping. - [garrett i'm good. i'm on a mission. - bro, look at that diaper. - no, no. - a little update here on garrett, he peed over here and
he also peed on the car. garrett just peed from the
roof into that trash can. dude, you marked your
territory with your pee. - is that your new resting spot? - i guess so, it's actually
pretty comfortable. - where's that toilet paper at? - we got some toilet paper in the tesla - you taking a poop?
- how are you gonna do that? - i'm gonna in this bucket. - ew. - i don't know how this is gonna work man. - just hold it in man. dude, if you just go
to sleep it'll go away. - how much coverage do i have here? so it's not just enough to have
your butt hovering over it, you gotta make sure
your weenie's in there. - poop science. i can't breathe, dude it smells so bad. - i'm still not done, hold on. me and garrett are outside
just trying to breathe. - yeah man.
- it's hard, it's hard, this is getting tough. - i'm a different person now, i really am, i don't even know where to begin. the struggle of having
to hang your butt out, while staying standing on a car. but i told myself i'm
going all the way here, so you got a poop in a bucket. you got a pee in a can,
and do what you do? - we also got-- can you stop? but for real, so we got some tp up here. we got some toilet-- chris, chris, why? - okay, i won't do it anymore,
i won't do it anymore. all right, so currently
i have this elon musk who's looking at that elon musk who's looking at that elon musk who's looking at that elon musk. - chris, you going to bed? - i'm a sleepy boy. - how about you tareq,
you about to go to bed? - i have another two hours in me. - garrett, you going to bed? - huh? - gotcha. - all right guys, it's
currently 6:30 in the morning, no one has budged. - i'm just going to sleep all day - we just woke up. it's so nice to see people
other than garrett and chris. - this is the only thing they've done. - yeah, no seriously. breath mint time. oh. - how's it make y'all
feel that i can do this? and then just get out whenever i want now, it's so great. - it feels like you don't have a tesla. - we just hit the 24 hour mark. - woo.
- yeah. - that's how we feel pretty much. all right guys, i've made a discovery. if you pull this down there's
a whole trunk you can fit in, this is my spot. - is that where we're sleeping tonight? - no, that's where i'm
sleeping tonight boy. oh, dude we just need some pillows. - this is your discovery here. - it would've been nice to
discover this last night. all right, it's hour 28
and my back is killing me, and i think i might have
to opt out on this one. shout out to my dad leon lush. but i couldn't pull it in, thanks guys. - garrett, what did i just hear? you're about to get out? - yeah, my back is killing me. low key going crazy. - chris, how does that make you feel? - dude, i'm sorry for garrett. - are you guys cuddling? - yeah, pretty much. - oh yeah. - it's been over a day, and if you get out now all
of that was for nothing. he's out, and he is out. you fought hard. you guys, i want you to shake his hand. - good job buddy. - good job man. - dude, this is the most
comfortable position in the car. - dude let me get all
time shot gun though. - all right.
- all right. - all time shotgun. how does that make you feel, now that garrett didn't win the tesla? - i'm a little disappointed, but i feel the back problems dude. who's left, chris?
- chris and tareq. - yo dude, all right
i'm calling chris now, sorry gat, i love you to death. - leon said he's team you chris. - yay. - chris said yay. all right you guys, we need
to make something happen here. - i'm not leaving. - how about you tareq? - me neither. - i'm pretty sure i was
actually just born in this car, i don't remember a time. - all right, well, i thought
i was gonna do something, but apparently not. - i'm pretty bored, let me see what this tesla's all about. open. oh, huh. i can't close that. - we are 37 hours in, my
wife has swung back here and she's told me she supports me fully. there's literally no
reason for me to leave. tareq thinks he's gonna win, he's not, i'm gonna win. - we're closing in on 48 hours, we started wednesday morning
and now it's friday morning. - so it's hour 50. - yeah. - 50 is half of 100, you've been here for half of 100. - jake got us a toothbrush and toothpaste. i just brushed my teeth in a tesla, you can literally do
everything in this car. - i will say this, if you are ever stranded in
a car for a very long time make sure it's a tesla, because they're actually
pretty comfortable. - that's how we get cleaned in the tesla. - well, that feels a lot better now. and now it's time to blow dry my hair. - how's your meditation going? - it's going pretty well. we're killing it, me and
chris are killing it. - how would you feel if in a day you left and he won? when you're about to quit what do you want me to say to future you? - tell me don't do it, tell me to remember
this moment right here. - how about you chris? - i'm very determined that
i'm either gonna get this car, or, i'm not going to exist
on this planet anymore. - why don't we just settle this like men? why don't you guys just do a
game of rock, paper, scissors? the loser gets out. - the best out of how many though? - three. - this is way too much time on my hands to let it go down to rock, paper, scissor. - ethan, i need your help. the option number one is duke get out. - what do you mean duke it
out, like fight each other? - no. just sit in the car and keep it going. option number two rock, paper, scissors. - oh heck no. - i'll do a poll on instagram. doing the last to leave
the car keeps it challenge, they've been in this
car for over two days. this car was full, they're
the last two people in it, should i let them sell the
car and split the money? or, force them to stay and
whoever leaves last gets it, which do guys you want? - all right chris, it's up to the fans, we have one hour on instagram poll. - i'm gonna throw up. - me too. i hope they say split up, but it'll be very exciting if we do rock, paper, scissors as well. hey jake, can you show us an
update on the poll real quick? - you see this guys? it's 50, 50. the world is literally
deciding what we should do. all right, what was it i heard? - we're gonna play rock,
paper, scissors for it. - yeah, i guess that's
what instagram has decided. - basically they keep saying, he said he's gonna go all week, he says he's gonna go all week. so you guys just wanna play a game of rock, paper, scissors
and winner keeps it? - yeah. - you won't hate chris and kill him? - no, it's all love, i
love chris regardless. - you won't hate tareq if he wins. - i love tareq. - even if he wins a $50,000 car. - yes sir. - what are you guys doing? three out of five? - three outta five.
- three outta five. - we're gonna do them eyes closed, make sure both of our eyes closed so there's no face reading or whatever. - rock, paper, scissors, shoot. tareq won the first one. - all right. - rock, paper, scissors, shoot. - one, one. okay, the first one to three wins. - rock, paper, scissors, shoot. - ooh, two, one chris. - you do realize if chris gets this next one he can win it. - yeah, yeah. - rock, paper, scissors, shoot. - that's a tie. - rock, paper, scissors, shoot. - a tie. - rock, paper, scissors, shoot. - a tie. - we are the same. - rock, paper, scissors, shoot. - okay, and chris won. that's it. tareq, get out of this car. and technically he stepped out first, so now you won. you were the one who said you wanted to do rock, paper, scissors too. - i know, i know, i
thought i had luck man. chris got it, i still love you dude. - you are way too nice, i would literally be
punching a hole in that wall. - i know, i will later. i would like to thank you though for giving us this
opportunity to just do that. - what, giving you the opportunity to win nothing? - to win nothing, thank you. - chris, get in your car, i'll let you drive it off. all right chris, you got
the dub, drive her off. - all right. i'm so nervous right now. after everybody's slept,
and peed, and pooped in it, i don't know if i'll
ever look at it the same. i hung my butt out of this car and pooped, i don't know if i can look at the same. - hey congratulations, you deserved it. - stop being so humble tareq, be mad. - no, i'm happy for him man. i know it sucks, but hey, he won it, it's all fair and square. - this is the first time
i've ever seen this car move. dude, this car is fast as. [music] mr. beast 6000, oh [music] [music] mr. beast 6000, yeah you know his name [music] [music] he changed it once or twice [music] [music] but i think it's here to stay [music]