- maxed out macs or max
macs with m1 max to the max. the 14 inch macbook pro
represent double the gpu and media horsepower the m1 pro models. but this raises a very
interesting question. how can apple fit that much more power on this same architecture no less, into the same chassis. and for that matter, is
there any other advantage to kitting out a macbook pro with an m1 max or is it only really useful for video editors thanks to
its expanded media engine? the answer may surprise
you, i know it surprised me. but it's no surprise that
today's sponsor is jackery. thanks to jackery for
sponsoring this video. their explorer 1500 power station provides a huge 1500 watt hour capacity with up to seven devices
charging simultaneously, and it only takes four hours
to recharge from zero to 80%. get 10% off with code linus
tech tips at the link below. (upbeat music) from the outside, there's
very little to distinguish the m1 pro from m1 max. so we (indistinct) space
gray for the macbooks and silver for the pro
books to tell them apart. jonathan horst over at
mac address commented that he liked silver better than
space gray this time around and honestly, i kinda agree. it's not that the space gray looks bad, but there's too little contrast for me, particularly considering
the blacked out keyboard that apple chose for the
new generation macbooks. but this is a matter of taste and i'm sure there are plenty of folks who'd like to see this thing
totally stealth instead. there is one major external
difference between the m1 pro and m1 max though, and
that's in the display support where the m1 pro can handle up to two external pro display
xdr via thunderbolt. the m1 max can handle up to three while also using hdmi 2.0
port for up to 4k60 output. that extra flexibility could
lead to some impressive battlestation setups for
professional workloads. you've got the integrated
mini led display, a span of three big
displays worth of workspace and a large tv or color
calibrated 4k display for output premium. one question that's been asked a lot is whether the thunderbolt ports could handle an hdmi 2.1 adapter, and unfortunately ours
didn't arrive in time for testing these laptops. i'll test them all when we
review the 16 inch models, so make sure you get subscribed
for that, it's coming soon. (upbeat music) how about on the inside? with these machines being
otherwise so similar, could apple also have given them the exact same cooling setup? remember the m1 pro
caps out at 16 gpu cores while the m1 max can double that number and doubles the memory bandwidth, which together are sure to
increase the heat output. let's pop the hood and compare the two. oh hey, apple color matched
the screws, how thoughtful. and they're the same picture. if i hadn't told you that the
space gray was the m1 max, you wouldn't have been
able to tell the difference just by looking at them, unless you looked really
closely at that heat spreader. it's just a little bit wider on the m1 max to cover that chips larger footprint. other than that, same band,
same heat pipe, same everything. given how hot the m1 pro got, this makes me worry that we'll see some significant
throttling with the m1 max. we'll button everything
back up and give it a go, this time with the
zephyrus m16 repping the pc with it's core i9 and rtx 3060 mobile. (upbeat music) first, we'll see if anything
changed for the cpu cores on the m1 max. and predictably, it absolutely did not. none of the m1 max's cpu scores
are appreciably different in cinebench r23 and this translates over to geekbench where we're effectively
looking at run to run variants. same deal with blender, where we're stuck with cpu rendering until blender 3.1 releases with middle gpu rendering
and support sometime in 2022. you don't have to wait that
long for our new shirt designs and a new water bottle
from lttstore.com though. they're available right now. you may be surprised by
these results though. given how much faster
the system memory is, i mean ryzen would sure love
to have memory that fast, but it seems apple cpu cores just aren't taking full advantage of it. based on these results alone, you might not be too impressed
by the m1 max at all, but the cpu's only half the picture. no, we don't have more cpu
cores or even faster cpu cores but what we do get are more gpu cores and an expanded media engine
with double the encoder blocks and double the prores blocks. nowhere would this be more
apparent than final cut pro. for this test, we set up a five-by-five grid
of 4k plus prores raw files and set them to appear one
by one in the timeline. then we set final cut to stop
when it detects a drop frame. with the original m1 macbook pro stalled at just four streams and the m1 pro dropped at seven, the m1 max's managed 10 and 12 suggesting that the cutdown model either has a slightly less capable prores engine or the extra gpu cores
on the high end model are picking up the slack. whatever the case, this is a truly ridiculous
number of pixels being processed all at once with no stuttering whatsoever, like four or seven simultaneous
streams is already a lot. but let's say you don't run final cut, you're a resolve shop. well, the good news for you too. when rendering the prores 422 hq to take advantage of the prores blocks, the higher end model gets scary close to a sub 10 minute mark out
a timeline that is stacked with de noising, chroma
keying and filtering. not a bad result, and our timelines frame rate keeps up to where we observed as high as
16 fps for the high end model scaled by about two fps
for each step down you take from there. the zephyrus meanwhile
can only roughly match the lower end m1 pro. that's a great result but what if you need to
render some 3d assets. right now, the best
solution on mac is cinema 4d with a redshift renderer. surprisingly the jump in
performance from the m1 pro to the lower end m1 max is substantial, likely thanks to the
double memoried bandwidth to go along with the extra gpu cores. the higher end max gives us
nearly a 10 minute render, which seems impressive up
until the zephyrus comes along and smacks it down with a 539. of course, that is a 16 inch pc laptop. but, spoiler for the 16 inch review, the 16 inch m1 max doesn't
do that much better. we were told that the m1 max could outperform the rtx 3060 or even match the rtx 3080, and apple calls out redshift
on their product page. so, m1 gotta take the l in this one geekbench too, shows the
zephyrus and its rtx 3060 absolutely pummeling the m1
max in both render modes, which places the max as gpu horsepower further behind than apple
had led us to believe. maybe there's more optimizations that still need to be
done for non-video tasks on these gpu cores, or maybe it's just the media engine was doing all the heavy lifting in our video editing tests. to be clear, it is scaling
relative to the m1 and m1 pro, but it's just not reaching
those dedicated gpu levels of performance we kept hearing about. maybe they meant games, yeah no. again, we're seeing mostly linear performance improvements across the lineup in shadow of the tomb raider where (indistinct) makes
use of apple's metal api but it's not enough to
catch up to the zephyrus, at least not at 14 inches. a few other games use metal, so it's all downhill from here. and when we switch over to cs go where there's no difference whatsoever between the m1 pro and max. ironically this time, not
because it's using opengl but because we've hit a
cpu bottleneck at 100 fps thanks to rosetta. since we're looking for more ways the m1 max can differentiate itself, there's one final ray of hope. the venerable dolphin emulator, which is native apple silicon support via a universal binary. unfortunately, dolphin doesn't
yet support the metal api. but in testing, we did discover a number of
interesting points to cover. the first head-scratcher is that the high-level opengl renderer is more performant than the
closer to middle vulcan api. this may be because apple
never embraced vulcan necessitating the use
of a third-party library called moltenvk, if developers
want to support it on macos. because apple deprecated opengl several macos revisions ago, the implementation while performant is missing some new features
that makes dolphin think that the gpu might be underpowered. second, multi sample anti-aliasing that can be enabled in most games is a huge performance
killer and apple silicon. it easily takes rendering speed from an impressive double of
native speed to just half. third, some titles like rogue squadron iii depends so heavily on the cpu that they never run at full speed, even at native resolution
just like the original m1. this makes sense though, because the main differentiator between the m1, m1 pro and m1 max cpu cores, is that there are more
performance cores available and dolphin doesn't utilize
more than a couple at a time. we did get performance data however. b|y firing up super mario
sunshine at 8x native resolution and an uncapped frame rate to place the burden squarely on the gpu. bearing in mind that the
game is native to 30 fps, the starting area runs at about 67 fps on the lower end m1 max
and 77 on the high end. that's a pretty good
improvement from the m1 pro that topped out at 47 with the original m1 taking up the rear at the sub-native 21. except then we look at the zephyrus again and it's a slaughter. that right there is over four times the native frame rate for this game and nearly double what the
best m1 max can put out. in laptop that costs a little
over half as much at retail. (upbeat music) so again, we're seeing
differences between the chips and their performance is objectively good, but we're just not coming
up to the performance claims apple made during their unleashed event no matter what we do. we're legitimately not sure if this is an optimization problem or if apple over promised
with cherry picked data. because as we've seen,
it's quite difficult to find anything that runs
metal on apple silicon to take full advantage of the m1 max. now let's take a look at
thermals for a test we could run. in our m1 pro video, we focus on the cpu so we'll be looking at
the gpu this time around for the m1 max by running redshift. the fact that it hovers around 90 degrees isn't too surprising. but given how much surface
area the gpu occupies, the rest of the soc is also brought up to those temperatures, which indicates that we're
probably at the threshold of what the cooler can manage
without maxing out the fans. those only ever got to around 50% speed. so there's definitely still some headroom if you want to max the fans out manually. we'll be doing a more strenuous combined cpu plus gpu torture tests when we test out the 16 inch
form factor in our next review. so, stay tuned to find out by how much. when we look at the flir, it
becomes clear that the m1 max is really pushing the upper limits of the 14 inch chassis cooling capacity. easily hotter than even the cpu test we did on the m1 pro chips
in our previous review, we're seeing over 50
degrees in the hotspot and well above that
exhausting out of the display. the bottom is still within
the relevant comfort and if it's sitting in your lap, chances are the undersides hotspot won't be touching your skin,
so points to apple there. now let's talk battery. last time we showed that
the m1 pro's endurance was nothing short of amazing while doing youtube video playback. easily beating out contemporaries like the surface laptop studio with a literal all day
battery life result. for the m1 max, we matched all the screens at four ticks of
brightness and let them go. this time around, both
of the m1 pro models lasted a little over two hours longer than both of the m1 max models. so while battery life is still phenomenal at about 20 hours in this test, you do give up a little bit of endurance for the extra horsepower even when you're not making use of it. depending on your priorities though, this could be a side grade,
a net benefit or a net loss. a fun fact to this test, failed once. and these endurance
figures being what they are made that a huge pain. overall for an extra $200
for the 24 core variant, m1 max is not a bad upgrade. it's just difficult to
recommend in general, unless you've got a need for
more than 32 gigs of memory. the extra gpu, horsepower
and memory bandwidth seem very situational, particularly in light of the dearth of apple silicon native
applications with metal support. this may change moving forward, but it's a teething pain
that's going to hamper these higher end soc for the coming years. rosetta can only do so much as we've seen. as such, m1 max only really shines in high-end video editing as of right now. for everything else, we're looking at something much more akin to the rtx 3050 ti, much less
the rtx 3080 we were promised. apple's leaning heavily on
special purpose silicon here. and while that's an approach
that may work out for them, they run a very real risk of
having purpose-built hardware that becomes dead weight once
consumers inevitably move on, just like you should move on
from untidy nether regions with manscaped. manscaped provides an
all-in-one grooming kit that has you covered from head to toe. their performance package
4.0 features their awesome lawnmower 4.0 waterproof body trimmer, their weed whacker ear and nose trimmer plus a whole lot of other goodies as well. for a limited time, you get all
of this plus two free gifts, the shed travel bag and the manscaped
anti-chafing boxer briefs. visit manscaped.com/tech, or click the link below for
20% off and free shipping. thanks for watching guys. the 16 inch review is going
to include both processors. so go check out a review
of the m1 pro macbooks for a little more on the whole
platform before the finale.