- hello and welcome to this
episode of "broke vs pro" sponsored by our friends at micro center. i am going to be building the pro setup to go up against ken who
is building a broke setup to see who truly is the better gamer. - the timer starts right-- all right. - so we're gonna start with
the glorious tenkeyless board, and i'm gonna actually build this. so i have never built a keyboard before. - [ken] clearly. - which include blue
keycaps, silver switches. - [ken] do you even know
what silver switches are? - yep, they're silver,
which is a great color. you're gonna love 'em. also need a model o, wireless of course. - [matt] you got about
two and a half minutes. - all right. ath-m50x's 'cause it's 2009 again. - [ken] wow, you chose the wonder bread of headphones, my guy. - i still have no microphone or a webcam. yeti nano! - [matt] you're the pro set up - gamepad, gamepad, gamepad, gamepad gamepads, gamepad. - [matt] you got about 30 seconds. - there's so many deals at micro center. - you're running outta time, man. - six, five, four, three, two - [matt] oh, no. (soft music playing) - right at the last second, austin fills up this cart, and it looks like there's only one thing in here worth getting. - at least i do have one ace at my sleeve. where's my monitor. i hid it up front 'cause
it wouldn't fit in my cart. - ken, are you ready? three, two one, go. i am the essence of calm.
- wow. - i think this set up is
gonna be pretty simple. micro center does have a
lot of low end microphones. so this thing right here i believe is a fairly affordable kit. yeah, for $50 a mic
stand, and a pop filter, with that don't need a
light, save some money. i actually don't think
i need a webcam either. i got some plans to save some money. we can make this work. all right, so i gotta apex 3 over here. we've used these before actually. these are not mechanical, but they're kind of mechanical feeling, kind of in the middle of
membrane and mechanical. it's also only 45 bucks. - ken and austin had very different strategies. i would say that ken is way more prepared on where to go within the
store to find his stuff. it looks like he did a
little bit more scouting than austin did, but feel like he kind of has to do that with the broke setup. you have to be much more budget oriented, where austin was budget oriented,
but he didn't need to be. and we're gonna have to see
if that works out for him. - i'm so short. yes, pebble, one of my favorite speakers. oh, i need a monitor. - ken's only got about 20
seconds he doesn't have a monitor. what you got? what do you got? - i mean i'll this 144 hertz, 24. is there anything else? is there anything else i need? - you have about 10 seconds. - what else do we need? i think that's it.
- four. i think i'm done. - three. - oh wait, no. - two - one - this. (timer ringing) barely. - right at the line. - barely. okay, so this is my setup here in all of its glory. all of it's cheap broke glory. to be fair - [austin] i'd like to interject. this is a 144 hertz freesync 
premium display. - yeah. - [austin] premium and broke
are two very different things. wait how much's that? -'0. - [austin] oh, that's actually pretty. - yeah, for 24 inches, 144, i also have this, i'm
gonna be using my phone as my main streaming input source. - [austin] so you're including the price of your phone in this setup. - no, cause we all have phones. - [austin] this looks great oh no, oh, i'm sorry. - [austin] my setup, i think
is gonna be far superior to that nonsense that ken has built. it's all over the floor. so now i'm gonna spend some
real time building myself - [jared] ken, what are you? - [austin] a glorious keyboard play. - [jared] ken! no, no, no, no, no, no no ken! - help me! - okay, okay. he won't stand a chance
to get the two of us. - stop it. - that's already broken. - [austin] broke vs pro off to a great start. - yes. - i have already gotten ahead of the game by having ken flip my box over. so this is a big monitor. if you hadn't noticed,
49 inches is about as big as the display gets,
unless you're buying a tv. it does say two people though, it recommends two people
to pick up the box but i am two people's worth of ego. so it should be fine. - [ken] nope, don't do that. nope, nope that's styrofoam. - [ken] just realize the back
of your shirt makes no sense. it implies a three player tic-tac-toe. - you're just not having fun in life ken, you just need to be a
little more adventurous. - action. - are you? this is a really nice size. austin and i have the same desktop. we're not using the same exact one. he has a mirror copy of mine. the ryzen 5 5600-
- 5600x with a 3060 gpu. - [austin] wow, what a broke
setup compared to... - you know, i am actually
making quite excellent progress. however, because i want to be
very thorough with my setup. i'm gonna check in with an expert. hello? wait, - [tiny] hi. - my discord is broken, hello? this is tiny, and tiny's
gonna help save the day. right? - [tiny] i will do my best. - yes, so i'm assuming this
looks pretty familiar to you. is there anything here that looks like i am wildly making a mistake right now? - [tiny] not that i can see. i have big faith in your ability austin. - [ken] that makes one
of us, because faith in your abilities in anything. - welcome back to judging
day for broke versus pro where i am about to be victorious with my hubris and confidence. now this is the pro setup. start of the show is my enormous 30, 49 inch. - we might wanna get the specs for this. - 49, 5k by 1440p 120 hertz. now i know that you're
typically not a huge fan of mechanical keyboards. is that fair to say? - look at you just outing me like this! i will sit down in this wonderful chair. - chairs are part of the
broke vs pro setup okay? - it's not bad, it's not bad. - look at the beautiful image quality of this 1080p 60 camera and
that beautiful audio quality. that sounds beautiful. pop those on your ears and
see how you feel about that. is that not a blast from the past? - i mean it's a little - [austin] it's cable managed. - little tight, are these pro grade? i would recommend these to almost anyone. - yep. - however i do feel like
with your pro budget you could have gotten
something a lot more flashy. - [ken] i actually made a denki video on $150 headphones and i'll tell you-- - are they sold at micro center? irrelevant. - [ken] i'm sure there's a reason why this is on the screen,
but i'd like to point out that he has not thought that far ahead. - [matt] i know. no, it's just a screenshot. - so, this right here is the broke setup. i think you'll be pleasantly surprised with the value of the
stuff that i have here. now for streaming, 'cause we
both stream unlike austin, but i would prefer a dual monitor setup because obviously with
multitasking, with obs, we can make due with that. and most importantly, in
the theme of making due as you can see, i don't
have a proper webcam. - no, you are utilizing - [ken] an iphone. - [matt] iphone was epoccam?
- how much was that? - [austin] how much was that? - i am using epoccam
pro, so i did pay the $8 i already own the app to be fair. so you could add that to my budget. - look, i know that sometimes
ken gets a little creative. however, i think you'd be
hard pressed to find someone who's got a gaming setup
that doesn't already have a cell phone in
their pocket right now that can utilize something like this. - it uses the iphone
cameras over wifi, usb. usb would probably be the better move but i didn't have a lightning cable on me. so we're just gonna use wifi. the iphone camera is really good. it does a great job of raining
in all of the exposure, getting the color temperature right, most importantly, it looks better than austin's webcam that he spent what? like a hundred something dollars on. - where are you walking? the setup's right here. - so, he's back! my vtuber kentama, yeah, oh tama's cool. - and by extension ken. (ken laughing) - [austin] he's just got
the tama laugh now. do you hear this? he's a different person now. - i was on board for all of this set up until tama showed up. let's see how their setups do in gaming. - let's do one game of deathmatch, whoever has the most kills wins. wow, my dpi is very high. yikes. - [ken] all right, one, - ken, you have any kills yet? 'cause i have zero. - [ken] yeah, i got kills. i'm two and five, which is not great. - oh wow, wow! dude, this is
actually embarrassing. - oh, oh, oh okay, okay, okay, okay. we're good, we're good. - [matt] this ring light, i
didn't think it was possible, but makes you even whiter. - sorry i can't hear you, i'm too busy gaming. - all right, that was one of the most like up and down matches. all right, so with f1, this is where my setup
is really going to shine. because i have the 49 inch display. now don't let the black
bars on the side, fool you. this is just the ui. as soon as i get into the game i'm gonna be immersed in the cockpit of a formula 1 vehicle
that is gonna blow away ken's tiny little puny screen. - [matt] okay, just right off the bat, seeing the ultra wide, compared to the smaller monitor. - okay, he's less than
a second ahead of me. i still got him in, right my sights. - [ken] what was that? - ken has a 1.5 second
gap on me right now. but i've got drs, if i can
reel him in just a little bit. - why is it yellow? why's it yellow? what happened? - [ken] because i spun out. - [austin] wait, i'm in the lead. - [matt] oh, he didn't know? - [ken] no. - how am i in the lead? i don't know how that happened. i just realized i'm in the lead. i got a 20 second gap on ken right now. oh my god. i can't hear anything anyone's saying, 'cause these headphones sound amazing. - [ken] well, there's
no way i'm gonna catch 20 seconds on him, so just said-- - oh, oh god, no, no, no, no not like this, not like this, not like this, not like
this, not like this. i lost some time
there, but i'm good. i'm just gonna limp it home. - ken's gonna catch me very fast. this is actually really bad. michael, mikey, this is so not right. - [ken] i see him,
he's in there, isn't he? - it's okay, i see him, let me, - [ken] wait, wait. no, no, no, no, no no, no, no oh, there's no way, there's no way he won! - oh, i did it i did it! how close did you? i won. i won. i end up winning by less than one second. i went into that last
lap with a 20 second lead. - [matt] we'll put the
score on the refrigerator for you champ. - thanks, appreciate it. - all right, so after we have gamed, a rare victory for austin but still got your absolute butt kicked in valorant which i mean, that's pretty common. so the real question we have now is did the pro setup make austin any better? and i actually have to say
with the ultra wide setup, there is a distinct
advantage in a game like f1. austin had a way better view with the ultra wide for a game like f1. however, we're talking
less than a second to win. i still think that ken was not hindered by this smaller screen here. - i was not. - with the exception of the ultra wide, there is nothing that your setup can do, - yeah. - that ken's can't, and we haven't even
talked about pricing yet. so yours was about $2,000? - a little over
- holy - for everything. now half of that was the monitor, yeah. - i know what's up. - ken's set up was around 450. - 450? - 416 specifically. - i feel like you could
have spent a little bit more on some things and a lot less on others. like your broke setup, you should not always just
buy whatever's cheapest. you should buy what's cheapest but still has some quality to it. so something like this mic,
where it sounds amazing. i'm happy to announce, we have a little trophy. - oh my, whoa. - i proudly present
this egg holder to ken. - wow, this is really sturdy. this is adorable.