- for me, cooking is an art. - what's your favorite
ingredient to cook with? - there isn't one. it's more like... when there is one, it really is one. you know? like there's peaches on
the cover of this cookbook. those peaches, those were in august. colorado peaches. it just doesn't get any better than that. - on that day, at that
moment, that was the best. - that was the best. but that only lasts for a week. - [lex] yeah. - and then they don't taste so great. - yeah. (lex chuckles)
(kimbal laughs) but damn are they so good in that moment, and you just can't stop
wanting to use that ingredient. - the following is a
conversation with kimbal musk. a long time entrepreneur and chef, and author of a new cookbook, called "the kitchen cookbook:
cooking for your community." you should check it out. it is in fact, the first
cookbook i've ever owned. i've already made stuff
from it, and it's delicious. this is a lex fridman podcast. to support it, please check out our sponsors in the description. and now, dear friends, here's kimbal musk. growing up in south africa, you
said it was a violent place. what are some formative moments that you remember from that time? - south africa was... so, i grew up in apartheid south africa, but more specifically
the fall of apartheid. so i was a teenager in the '80s. and our community would... part of our social life, frankly, was the anti-apartheid protests, and to go be with white
people, black people, kind of mixing it all altogether. the most formative experiences, frankly, how much i appreciate
a place like america, where we have value for human life. so that was a country where
human life was not valued. it was a weird thing to
come from that to here, where we take it so seriously if someone dies in a war
or something like that. and we just didn't take it
seriously in south africa. people died, or people were killed. i saw someone killed in front of me. i was getting off a train, and it's a very violent
train, known for violence. we were stupid kids. we didn't really listen to our parents. we went on this train,
and the doors opened, and i had people trying
to get off the train. and in front of me, two black people. one black guy just stabbed this knife in the side of this
other black guy's head. and you're like, "what the fuck?" and you just... i gotta get off the train. - how old were you at this time? - probably 16 or 17. and i gotta get off the train. and everyone is trying
to get me to get off, because, you know, they're all behind me. so i step off, and i step
into the pool of blood, one foot, and then i just
walk for about 100 paces while the stickiness of
the blood just kind of, from my sneakers, just on one foot, just like leaves a footprint behind me. and you just walk on. you just walk on. - [lex] did the others walk on as well? - everyone walked on. - that's an interesting point you make. underlying the violence is a kind of... philosophy that human life is disposable, the individual life is disposable. i mean, that underlies many ideologies. you know, i grew up in the soviet union. the value of human life was lower there than in the united states. the value of the individual in the united states is really high. - [kimbal] yeah. - there's probably an index
you can put together, like- - [kimbal] yeah, right, exactly. - per nation. that's a really interesting way to put it, because violence is much
easier on a mass scale. suffering, causing
suffering on a mass scale is much easier when you
don't value the human life. - i've heard this before, where,
which i think i agree with, is when someone is killed,
someone's taken from our lives, the vacuum that it creates, the social vacuum is
extraordinarily painful. and it truly is true. i mean, if someone in my
community passes away, it'd be very, very sad for me. and when you go to a place where... live, grow up in a place
where that human life is not valued, there's something about the... there's a little bit less of
the social vacuum created, because everyone is kind of expecting everyone to potentially be
taken out at any moment. but then there's also a
beauty to it because... there's a much more of
a celebratory element. my cousin russ and i,
again, we're stupid kids, we shouldn't be doing this. but we'd go into the townships, where a lot of the violence
would be happening. and we really didn't see
most of the violence there. it was in these more
protests and so forth. but there's a joy that also comes from lower value of human life. there's a real joy. like everyone was like, "well..." i mean, it's beautiful. we'd have dinner with
black friends, you know? friends with their family, and
we were still pretty young. and there was just a real joy to it. - when you accept mortality- - [kimbal] yeah. (laughs) - you can really enjoy life. - you can really enjoy life. i mean, i think that's
actually quite a nice insight. i've never really put it that way, but i think that's right actually. i think you just chill out a bit, take things a little less seriously. - "cause life does end for everybody. - it does, right? (laughs) - and if you just head
on accept that fact. - [kimbal] yeah. - you can just enjoy every single moment, and let go of this attachment,
and just enjoy the moment. - i think there's a real... i do love that we all
live longer and so forth, but we should live longer
with the goal of joy. - [lex] mhm. - the goal of happiness and peace. not... some form of misery that you
choose to attach yourself to. - maximize joy. - maximize joy, that's right. - there's a story that walter
isaacson writes about where elon got beat up pretty
bad, and you were there, and then you also had to watch your dad yell at elan for an hour, calling him worthless,
all those kinds of things. you said it was the worst
memory of your life. what do you make of such cruelty? what do you remember from that time? - i mean, it was horrible. i think, you know,
coming back to the point of low value of human life... they tried to kill him. there was no holding back,
so i just watched someone... it wasn't just one, but
there was a main person, and then there was a few
others that piled in. they just... they tried to kill him, in front of me. we were eating sandwiches on
a staircase at the school, in the outdoor staircase and... i just had to... they were not coming after me, and then i just had to
watch, and i couldn't help. it was one of the saddest,
most difficult experiences. it was just awful. - just like that, life can end. - [kimbal] yeah. - it could've been you. - yeah, i think... so i've had a near death
experience where i almost died. it was in 2010. and i think that... and i broke my neck, and i can go into that story in a moment. but this was different. this was... this comes back to the low
value of human life part, where if someone had killed my brother, if that person had beat him to death, which he was trying to do, life would've gone on. you know, that's like an insane
thought in an american... well, maybe in some tough neighborhoods, but for the most part, it's not a thing. - yeah, the brutality of that. the mundaneness of the brutality. - yeah. - it makes you think of
all the places in the world that that's happening. - [kimbal] exactly, exactly. - and all the beautiful
people that just disappear. - i always say to people who
have an opinion about america that, you know, this is a
really bad country or whatever. and i say, "look, please
go try another country before you say that." not to say that america can't get better. but please go try another country. because not having that perspective, or having a perspective that... i don't know, like a
chip on their shoulder about the country that they're in... okay, go try another country, and then come back and tell me. and pick any country. it doesn't have to be
some very violent country. you could pick any country. and you just realize that actually, the world doesn't think the
same way that america thinks. and you're gonna just learn
a perspective that, i think, gives you a better way to
critique where we live in america. - yeah, it's humbling. you said that your dad was a
rollercoaster of affection, and then verbal abuse. walter isaacson quotes
barack obama who said, "someone once said that every
man is trying to live up to his father's expectations or make up for his father's mistakes, and i suppose that may
explain my particular malady." does part of that ring true for you? - what i thought you were gonna say was... i thought you were gonna
end the sentence with, "live up to my father's expectations." that's what most people say. but then you said the second part, which is make up for his mistakes. and i think that's actually... that one rings true for me. he was really... he's still alive, but
i'm not connected to him. but he's very... he taught me, the phrase i used to have, was he taught me what not to do. so i still actually learned a lot. what kind of human not to be, what kind of actions not to take. and so that kind of, closer
to living up to his mistakes, but my father's such a train wreck that it's not really mistakes. it's like, intentional
actions of what not to do. "okay, look, don't do that." - but there's still the
trauma of that, you know, it has an effect on the human psychology, and can permeate through time. so it has probably
complex indirect effects on who you are. the good and the bad. - there's a critique
that my friends give me, which is when they're talking to me, i kind of just drift away. i'm still looking at them. i'm still nodding. might even respond to them
in their conversation. but i'm actually not there. and i've realized that
i actually, i grew up, 'cause my father would just... verbal abuse is one way to say it. it is abuse, but it's more just
verbal diarrhea, for hours. and constantly saying,
"do you understand?" like, he wants to make sure
that i'm paying attention. so i train myself to look
like i'm paying attention, but i'm not. - to disappear to some place. - disappear to some place. - [lex] wherever that is. - yeah. and i do that less and
less over time, but i- - but that path has been
paved somewhere in your mind at childhood, so... it could be easy to walk down it. you and elon were close growing up. you're still close. what did you learn from each other? how did you compliment each other? - yeah, i think we're a good compliment. i'll talk for myself first. my strength is definitely
on the social side. i love the gathering place. and i love putting people
together in person. and i love to have vibrant
debates and conversations. i've been doing that forever, including fun parties and stuff, where i bring people together, and i really kind of
want people to have fun, but be vulnerable, not
just like silly partying, but actually like, let's all connect. the definition for me of a good party is people laugh and cry. like, i wanna have people
have an emotional connection. i go to burning man every year, and there's no question you will cry at some point during burning man. - no small talk. - no small talk. yeah, exactly. no small talk. - [lex] yeah. - you're totally right.
unlike most parties... not parties, but most events
you go to are like clubs, these sort of nightclubs. - [lex] yeah. - and i never go to those. and my joke is... why would i wanna go to a place where i pay to shout
small talk in the dark? (lex and kimbal laughing) - that's a good line. that's what it feels like. the only the reason i enjoy those places is the full absurdity of exactly that. (kimbal laughs) - right. it's totally absurd. - what are we doing? what is this? what is this like? (lex chuckles) - so, my compliment for my brother, was just bringing joy
and social connection. and he's truly... he's an engineering genius. i've worked with him forever. and we do compliment each other. - you just came out with
a cookbook, by the way. thank you for giving me my first cookbook. i feel legit. - [kimbal] i love that
it's your first cookbook. - i'm gonna keep it... (kimbal laughs) i'm gonna keep it on the counter, and it's gonna give me legitimacy
when anyone comes over. hey, listen, i'm basically a chef now. - [kimbal] that's right. (lex chuckles)
exactly. - when did you first fall
in love with cooking? - i started cooking
when i was 11 years old. my mom is just, she's wonderful, but she's self-admittedly a bad cook. but at the time, i think anyone with kids
that goes through this. your kids just want like something that, like spaghetti bolognese
or a burger or something. and my mom would do brown bread, plain yogurt and boiled squash. you know, like the absolute
most disgusting things that a child could imagine eating. and so i said, "can i cook?" and she said, "yeah, if you
wanna cook, no problem." so i went to the grocery store... and back in those days, the butcher was separate
to the grocery store. and i went to the butcher,
and i said, "what can i cook?" and he pulled out a chicken, and he said, "this is the
easiest recipe for you. just put it on a pan in
an oven, a hot oven." 'cause back then, ovens
weren't necessarily like 400 degrees or 450 or whatever. "and put it in a hot oven
for one hour and enjoy." that was it. and so i went home. and actually, i also
bought some french fries, i'll tell you that as well. so i'm a kid, of course
i want french fries. so i had roast chicken with french fries. and the chicken came out,
and it was just fantastic. - it was? - absolutely fantastic. - that's incredible, by the way. - [kimbal] yeah, yeah, yeah. - you didn't screw it up the first time. - first of all, i think that
also kicks off the magic. - [lex] yeah. - like if you screw it
up, and you're like, "oh, maybe this is not for me." so for me, it really did kick it off. (lex laughs) - you started out on a high note. - yeah, right, exactly. but i can tell the french fry
part, which was a disaster. so i cooked the french fries, but i didn't heat the oil first, so i just put the potatoes in the oil, and i waited for it to heat up. and i just was throwing
up later that night. 'cause your body can't ingest that much, 'cause it sucks the oils in. - oh, oh, wow. - and so that was a disaster, but at the time it tasted good. (lex and kimbal laughing) the real magic, which i
also found was wonderful, was when i cooked, you know,
my brother and my sister, my mom all very, very
busy, very intense people, would sit down, and we
would have a meal together. and i was like, wow, this
is a very powerful thing that i've now got, where in no other way could i have that
connection with my family. i mean, obviously we stay connected, we're very close, et cetera, but in no other way can we sit down and just talk about things. or talk about whatever's on our mind, or just to just not even talk, just to be at the table together. and i've done that now
through my whole life. my kids, still for my family. and we will do gratitudes at
the beginning of our meal. and it's just... i think that what kept me cooking, what made my love of cooking so great, was actually the fact
that we would sit down- - [lex] together. - and be present with each other. and i'm also just also
horrible with that too, so i also get to be present. - what is that about food that like, brings people together,
and not just together, but like really together, where you're like paying attention? - [kimbal] right. - like, what is that? why is it food? like, what else does that? sometimes maybe alcohol can do that, which is a kind of food, i
guess, as part of the experience. - yeah, but i think alcohol is different because you're usually standing when you're doing alcohol,
so like you're socializing, but it's gonna stay in more
of the small talk zone. - [lex] yeah.
- right? - whereas if you sit down.... and i see this in my restaurant
in the kitchen in boulder, where we have every viewpoint. or we go to denver, every viewpoint. when we're in chicago, every viewpoint. and the physical presence of someone being with right there, is people, they're just very different. absolutely different to
what they are online. i think we all know the
difference between, you know, you send an email to someone, and they misunderstand the email, right? and you're like, "oh, if i
had just talked to the person, it would've been fine." well, this is now happening at scale. you know, with all of these... what do you call it? trolling or whatever. and i've sat at the bar, and i've had a hardcore trump supporter. and i'm just curious, just like, "listen, tell me... i'm not a trump supporter,
but like, tell me more." and it actually draws
the conversation out, because you're there
for an hour or longer. (kimbal chuckles) so there's no rush to get the answer. and i think that's a big difference. i've had one time where,
just a couple months ago, i had someone, i was sitting
at the community table, we have a community
table in the restaurant. and i didn't know him too well, but he asked me, "did i know
that 9/11 was a conspiracy, and it didn't really happen." - [lex] it didn't happen, yeah. - and i was like, "huh." so actually, i was at 9/11. i mean, i watched the towers fall. i was there, physically there. so it's like, no- - allegedly. - there's no doubt in my mind. - okay. - but i didn't wanna... (kimbal and lex chuckling) but i didn't wanna interrupt
what he had to say. so i let him talk for five minutes, six minutes, seven minutes. and again, you're there for a while, so you're not in a rush
to jump in and argue. and then i shared that i was there. and i think because i had
been willing to listen to him, he was willing to listen to me. and i don't know if he changed his mind. he certainly didn't change my mind. but it was actually a
pretty cool conversation, to kinda get into each other's mind. - well, i think you connect
on a different level, not on the level of like the conspiracy, but on the level of basic humanity. - yes, exactly. - like that's what you really connect on. and then it almost becomes
interesting and fun that you can exchange
ideas, even crazy ideas, out there ideas, and
kind of play with them. like, we humans are good at that. - yeah, exactly. i like the term "play with them". because what you're not trying to do is shut the conversation down. you're also not trying to- - [lex] talk down on them. - yeah, exactly. like, "oh, this guy's... let me just be nice while i totally disagree
with this person." you can do that for a few minutes, you can't do that for two hours. - and there's something
about food that completely... i don't know, it must be evolutionary, that it makes us vulnerable in a way, that even just standing there for a prolonged period of time doesn't. there's something about... (lex chuckles) you know like, when the animals gather to the water or whatever. - [kimbal] yeah, right. - like this kind of experience
where you're just like, "all right, let's just
acknowledge together that we need sustenance." - yup. - and somehow that kind
of grounds us to like, we're just a bunch of descendants of apes. (kimbal laughs) here just kinda like,
grateful to be alive. - [kimbal] yeah.
- frankly. and grateful to be consuming this thing which keeps us alive. and in that context, you can
talk about all kinds of stuff. you can discuss flat earth and enjoy it. - absolutely. abso... in fact, one of my favorite things to do, is you do like a
jeffersonian style dinner. like let's say five or six people. sometimes people will break off into individual conversations. that's actually when things break down. so that's when you kinda
go back to small talk. like, "oh, i'm stuck next to this guy, i'm just gonna do a little small talk." what you need to do to really create a great conversation is, one conversation at the table. and that's where, you know, there'll be some simple
questions that i'll say. i'll say, "what's your middle name?" and you'll be amazed at the
stories you get from that. but it's about creating vulnerability. - [lex] yeah. - so they're like, "oh, no one's
ever asked me that before." so then they become vulnerable. and then something as simple as, "what's the most fun thing
you've done recently, and what is the most fun thing
you're looking forward to?" - [lex] mhm. - and i have gotten into... with those prompts, i've gotten into hours long discussions on god. - [lex] mhm. - i've gotten into hours
long discussions on love. i've got into hours long
discussions on anger. it's actually amazing when people are just asked a question like, "what's the most fun
thing you've done lately?" well, why would anger come up? well, actually, they're
in a vulnerable place, so that it'll just kind
of come out of them. - so you get to see this. you get to see this at the kitchen. and you said boulder, denver, chicago? - yeah, and we're gonna open in austin. - in austin. that's what i saw. when? when? - in october is the goal. - in october is the goal. well, i mean, speaking of
characters and human beings, austin is fascinating. i've... i forget how long ago, i mean, a couple months ago, i
was just sitting at a bar, and the two people were talking, and they were talking about marxism. and it turns out that
they're anarcho-communists? which is a thing? and i got into this conversation- - a communist that likes drugs? (lex and kimbal laughing) - that's a good question to ask. (kimbal and lex laughing) - i think i know some of those. (lex and kimbal laughing) - anyway, they were beautiful people. i think they're local from austin. i don't know the depth of
their personal experience of the different kinds of
communist-like systems, but it was fascinating to listen to, and then get to know them. and the humanity, the
weirdness, like the characters. it's just... i mean, i love it. one of the reasons i really love austin, i decided to be here, is just the cliche thing
of "keep austin weird". i mean, there's a lot of weird characters. - i love it. i think... i've talked to a lot of austinites
who've been here forever, and i'm like, "man, you
gotta hold us accountable. we gotta keep this place weird." (lex laughs) - a hundred percent. which makes the restaurant seem great, because you have all
these characters come in. it's great. so i look forward to that. but you were saying like, you get to see humans
in real life interact. that's one of the beautiful things. - yeah.
- over food. in the book you write, picasso once said, "the meaning of life is to find your gift. the purpose of life is to give it away." then you wrote that you
believe food is a gift we give ourselves three times a day. can you explain that? the gift nature of it? - yeah, it's actually... i think it's one of my
most powerful life lessons, is we have to eat. so it's not like you have a choice. you have to eat. and so what i choose to do is, i'm gonna choose to make it a
gift to myself for each meal. and most of the time, the best gift is with
friends, with family. so i'll have to cook some scrambled eggs in the morning with my daughter, or we'll have dinner with our family. to me, it's a gift we give
ourselves three times a day, you know, at least. but for the most part, three times a day. let's make it a good one. - what makes it a good one to you? like, what aspect makes it a good one? - well, first definitely
eating with people. so, that makes it a good one. so eating in a restaurant, it doesn't have to be my restaurant. where you have the energy
of people around you, energy of the town, people you don't know. it creates a little bit of a vibe. you mentioned the watering hole analogy, the animals like sipping at the water. but there's an energy to that
because they're also like, looking around going, "am
i just about to be eaten?" - yeah. (lex and kimbal laughing) - so they're all in it together, but we need to have water. but there's still a little
bit of tension as well in the background. and i think that's what restaurants do. a very, very subtle version of that. you're in a room with strangers. and you're a little cluster, okay, fine. you guys are connected and... - [lex] yeah. - but you're in a room with strangers, and there's just something that adds that energy to the meal. - yeah, you're a little
bit wondering like, "what does everyone else think
about our little cluster?" - right. like, are we too loud? or just, also just people are random, so something random could happen. - and also, depending on your personality, if you're an extrovert, maybe you wanna show off
to the other clusters. - exactly, yeah. absolutely. totally right. i mean, you know... look at the cowboy hat. (lex and kimbal laughing) i mean, actually, i'll take my hat off when i wanna have a quiet meal, and i can leave my hat on when i'm- - oh, so you're aware of the- - i'm aware of the effect it has. yeah, absolutely. - everyone turns in the night. (kimbal laughs) - [kimbal] that's right. - and then it's back to the watering hole. 'cause when you wear a cowboy hat, you just might actually not- - yeah, yeah, i'm like... they're gonna get me first. (kimbal and lex laughing) - at noon. i love it. - i gotta tell this story. we talked to the craziness of
being in the restaurant world, where, you know, you're
sitting at a table, and anything can happen in the restaurant. so there's one time, it
was like 15 years ago, this guy comes up to us and says he'd like to propose to
his wife, his girlfriend. and so we said "okay, cool. we've done this before. we'll make sure it's all set up." 6:00 pm kind of reservation. so she shows up, and we give
her a glass of champagne. we didn't, obviously, didn't
wanna spoil a surprise, so we're just doing everything we can. but then he doesn't arrive. (lex laughs) and then we're like, "oh, man." now we're like, "don't leave! can we get you another
glass of champagne?" we're doing everything we can, because the guy was
obviously earnest earlier. we're just, "is he stuck
in traffic or whatever?" and out coming through the
back door of the restaurant, which, you're not allowed to come through the back door of the restaurant, a marching band from the
school, the university, like comes through the
restaurant, you know, full on brass band and the whole thing. and he gets down, and he proposes... and it's beautiful, sure, but it's also like-
- [lex] chaos. - man, this is chaos. this is insane. (lex and kimbal laughing) and we would never have said yes to this if he'd actually told
us what he was gonna do. - yeah, well, sometimes in life, you have to do it and apologize. - you do it and apologize. but that talks to that kind of, what's a crazy thing that could happen... it's subtle, but it's still there. - so in 2004, you opened the kitchen. it's an american bistro restaurant. what was it like, what's it
like running a restaurant? the good, the bad and the ugly? what's the easy, what's the
fun, and what's the hard? - i think the thing that i absolutely love about running the
restaurant, not eating in it, but running the restaurant, is the tangible reaction from people. and you also kind of know
when you've screwed it up, and you also know when you got it right. it's kind of a weird way to say this, but even if the customer's unhappy, you know whether you
got it right or wrong. it's not just about
the food you're making, but it's about the person's
psychological state. - [lex] yeah. - and you'll do something
that you're like, you know that was not done well. and their psychological state is they're just in a very
happy place, and they love it. and you're like, "huh, interesting." like, that's not how i
would've reacted to that dish. - [lex] yeah. - and then the other way around. you're like, "no, i got that right" and that person's just
like really unhappy today. - yeah. and it's so hard to read humans. 'cause you have to... if you got it right, that can look a million different ways, depending on the emotional rollercoaster that human is living through. like i've been at some very low points, and i've gone to like a restaurant alone, and just sitting there and be truly happy with just the zen aspect of it. and it was just like a great
steak or something like this. and maybe to other people around me, would look like i'm very unhappy, just because i'm within myself. - [kimbal] struggling with your day, yeah. - yeah, within myself. but i'm truly happy
within that struggle, so. yeah, it's interesting. but you can kind of tell. - yeah, you can tell. you mentioned being at the bar. the most gifted bartenders
really understand that. you know, it goes beyond... what's also great about a restaurant, it goes beyond the one time
experience that you walk in and have that experience. is the good bartenders, they remember you. "oh, you were in a few months ago." and... "this is kind of your thing,
you might need a little time." and other people will come
in, they want a conversation. - [lex] yeah. - or other people come in, and they're going through a divorce, and they just wanna be sad for a moment. have a scotch.
- [lex] yeah. (lex chuckles) - and it's amazing what you
learn in the restaurant world, to just be connected to humanity. - yeah. what is that about bars? that's a different experience. you said the table, the communal- - the table is when you
connect with people, learn about each other. bars, you can sometimes do that. you can talk left and right, but you have the freedom
to always break free. like you can say, "oh, okay, great, i'm gonna go back to my meal." so it's kinda like a friend you can turn on and off at any time. because the bartender knows
that, they're trained. like if you want attention,
i'm gonna give it to you. if you don't, i'm gonna stay away. if you wanna be chatty,
i'm gonna be chatty. if you wanna be completely in your head, i'll leave you in your head. - there's also strangers
kinda next to you, that you kinda... there's a feeling with the bar, that you're kind of alone together. - [kimbal] yeah.
- right? - and you can reach out. you can add some conversation,
or you can choose not to. - and you can exit quickly. - you can exit. exactly.
(lex laughing) it's a really good exit. so, bars are wonderful. and i love going to a bar
by myself, after work. i might have a scotch, might
even not even have alcohol, just have some thing. and maybe have a snack or
something before dinner, because i'm gonna go home and
have dinner with the family. and that 20 minutes is just
an amazing state change, from daytime to nighttime. whereas if i went straight home, i'm like still in my head, and i'm just trying to get grounded, and i'm not as pleasant of a person. so that's another powerful use of a bar, is just like a transition time. - well, i mean, it would
be remiss not to mention the other use of the bar, which is like, when you're going through
some shit in life. and you just go. i mean, it's the cliche thing. i've been... - writing your stories? - yeah, exactly. (kimbal laughing) - but like the bar makes the melancholy somehow like rich and beautiful, and like you feel heard in the silence. - yes.
(lex laughing) yes, you feel heard. like i said earlier, people
going through a divorce, they don't know where else to go. - [lex] yeah. - these are mostly men. sometimes women will do it,
but mostly men will do this, and women have other
ways of processing it. but they just... they want a place to be sad. they want a place where they could feel comfortable talking about it. they're certainly not gonna
go into too much detail, but they just wanna say something. - [lex] yeah. - and the bartender is there for them. - yeah. you don't know where to go. - you don't know where to go, exactly. - and the bar... (kimbal laughs) yeah, you're right. like for men especially,
is a place to just go. - [kimbal] yeah. - and just... i don't know. what is that? - i mean-
- what is that? - i'll be honest, i still do it myself, where if i'm at home, and i don't have a work
thing that i gotta deal with, and i don't have kids,
and i don't have my wife or a family around, i don't often cook for myself. i actually love going to a bar, by myself. i have a glass of red wine, and i usually don't have
a starter or appetizer, just like a main meal. and i just take in the
energy of the space. if it's my restaurant,
someone else's restaurant. i just take in the energy. and it's so much better
than being home and, what, turn the tv on? no, no, no, no, no. i wanna be out in the restaurant. i wanna feel the energy of the town. the other thing that
restaurants teach me is, they're the front lines of the economy, or what's a better word for it? just like front lines of the
energy of how things are going. - oh, like, of a peoples in general? like, it doesn't necessarily
mean this part of town, but it could be the entire society. - yeah, exactly. so you can go into a restaurant and... i'll use a simple example. and why is the restaurant empty? ah, there's a football game going on. and there's such a large number of people that wanna watch that game, that the restaurant is quiet. or it might be like world
series or something. and you're like, "wow,
that's so interesting." you can actually watch,
in american of course, american humanity, you can watch them move in their patterns, just by being in the restaurant. - [lex] yeah, yeah. - and then another time you
might be in a restaurant, and it's just jamming. and it's a monday night, and you're like, "what is the energy that
created this on a monday night?" and maybe even on a cold february,
monday night, what is it? and sometimes you can't find
out, but you could feel it. and it's my front lines of humanity that i also just really
love about the restaurants. - yeah, it could be
empty, it could be full. empty bars... there's a magic to those too. - [kimbal] yeah. - you could still feel that energy. i don't know. - i actually prefer empty
bars than full ones. - it's just you and the bartender. i mean, some of my greatest experiences is just the quiet bar, with just me and the bartender, and they're doing their thing. and they've seen so many... i have almost like,
through osmosis somehow, feel the stories that
that bartender has seen, has felt, has heard. - [kimbal] yeah.
- and all that kind of stuff. i mean, not to be sort of... like spiritual about it, but it seems like it's in
the walls or something. like the history is felt. - and then some of these
bars are actually very old, and it's wonderful. like, there are many in europe like this, but there's a couple in new york city, few hundred years old, and they're still operating
nonstop for that long. and man, you feel it. - yeah. let me ask you some
questions about ingredients. what's your favorite
ingredient to cook with? - for me, cooking is an art, right? so it'd be like asking me what's my favorite paint color to use. it's not there isn't one, it's more like when there
is one, it really is one. you know, like there's peaches on the cover of this cookbook. those peaches, those were
in august, colorado peaches. it just doesn't get any better than that. - on that day, at that
moment, that was the best. - that was the best. but that only lasts for a week. - [lex] yeah. - and then they don't taste so great. - yeah.
(kimbal laughs) but damn are they so good in that moment, and you just can't stop
wanting to use that ingredient. - they look really good. - [kimbal] they're so good. - what's your favorite fruit? i love veggies and fruit. what's your favorite fruit? - i love a smoothie bowl,
so i do sort of berries, raspberries... but i use fruit more in
the form of a smoothie bowl than i eat fruit that often. i like an apple or a banana, but for the most part, i
prefer like the blended. - not me. i love... the way you casually
said, "i like an apple." i mean- - a good apple is pretty great. - for me, it's a problem, i think. (kimbal laughs) probably cherries number one. probably... what are they called? granny smith apples number two. - oh yeah, those are great. but try it when... sometime, come to colorado in august, and when you try those peaches, it is like heaven has
arrived in your mouth. it is so ridiculously good. (kimbal laughs) - but just for a week in august. - just for a week. you can't have it all year long. (kimbal laughs) - what about veggies? you wrote that chef hugo
that you worked with, co-founded the kitchen with, taught you the power of a good vegetable. - [kimbal] yeah. - what's the power of a good vegetable? - so i've trained in new york, right? as a french chef. but it wasn't very much
ingredients focused, it wasn't very much sourcing focused. he came from the river cafe in london, which was one the ogs
of the farm-to-table, and still going strong today. and he taught me the value
of getting to know farmers, and getting to know
vegetables from that farm, versus vegetables from that farm. and they're actually different. the soil's a little different. the way they grow it a little different. it's the opposite of
the industrial machine, where everything needs
to look exactly the same. and sometimes you'll get carrots that are kinda ugly and deformed, but they're much sweeter than the carrots you'd get for other purposes. so you'd make a carrot puree out of that. and then you take carrots that are more typical in shape and size, you might roast them for dinner. so it's the appreciation
for vegetables in general. i probably would say
carrots is my favorite, just 'cause that was an example of one where i really had to learn how to use the different types of carrots that come from from all of our farms. and it's fun. you know, it's a fun ingredient. if you just went to the whole foods, or just went to a grocery store, and you just got exactly
the same carrot every time, less fun. but go to a farmer's market
and see what you get, and you'll see they're quite different. - yeah, carrot for me
is probably number one. i have rigorous detailed
rankings for fruit and veggies. - [kimbal] that's amazing! - we'll get into it. no, i'm just kidding. (kimbal laughs) well, i am the kind of person that would have like a
spreadsheet for that. - [kimbal] that's great. - but i'm mostly just
making fun of myself. i do love carrots. i wish they weren't so
full of carbs, but... - yeah, i'm just not anti-carbs, you know? i think-
- anti-carbs, yeah, yeah. - yeah, i think they play a role. like, i have a great friend
who's an amazing doctor, and he did some tests
for me and everything, and turns out i have a gluten allergy. and i was like, "okay. so what that means is,
i shouldn't eat gluten." he's like, "yeah." it's like, okay, but
i also have hay fever, and that means i should
not go out into nature. so i was like, nah, i think
i'm gonna go out into nature. and maybe what i'll do
on bread and pasta is, or like the true carbs, i'll just have it when it's really good. - [lex] mhm. - because when it's really
good, it's really good. and you don't wanna miss that. most of the time, okay, fine, there's some crummy bread or whatever. like, i can skip that part. but i find all of these
diets, they're like, "no, none of this." or, "super this, super that." i wonder if people are just looking for something to hang on to. but these diets have been around forever, and if they work, then we would know that. - yeah, i think one of the
biggest problems with diets is, it adds stress when you do have
that perfect bowl of pasta. and if you have categorized yourself as a low-carb eating person, you might be very stressed
about enjoying this thing. - [kimbal] yeah. - when you should just let go. - let go. this is your "cheat day" or whatever. - [lex] yeah, yeah. - and i've heard that. and actually, i have friends
who do that, their cheat day, and i say to them, "i'm only gonna hang out
with you on your cheat day, because that's when you're actually fun." (kimbal and lex laughing) - yeah, i mean, i would say like for me, there's things that make
me feel really good, but they're not rules. they're not... they're like go-to favorites. like in terms of diet and so on. for example, i've mostly
been eating once a day. - oh, wow. - for the longest time. but that's not a rule. like, it's completely flexible. and i've mostly been eating very low-carb. - okay, but you must
be eating a lot of food in that one meal. - yeah, it's not, you know, because it's usually
very sort of meat heavy. it's not like portions
are not that big, so. - but your body needs food. - yeah, body needs food. so you're talking about
like 2000 calories. what you find out is like, that dinner, is like the most social time of the day. - yeah. i mean, i have kids in the morning, so if you have kids, it's for
sure a morning experience, but if you don't, then you're right. - yeah. but like you said, i deviate. i'm more afraid of missing
the perfect dessert, the perfect breakfast,
the perfect bowl of pasta, pizza, all that kind of stuff. - [kimbal] yeah, right. - i don't think of it as a cheat day. i think it's a... - well, if you're only
eating one meal a day, you can eat whatever you like. (kimbal laughs) - well, like, i wanna make clear that it's not one meal a day always, and on like this very strict thing. it's... you always have to be
open to the experience, to the new experience. otherwise you do miss out. 'cause just like you said, hay fever. like, i think if you want be really safe, you should never leave your home. - yes, just wrap... we learned during covid, if you wrap yourself in
cotton wool in your basement- - [lex] yes. - you're not going to die from covid. you might die from a lot of other things, of just pure misery. - yeah.
(kimbal laughs) well, you might live forever. (kimbal laughs) - right? we don't know. - but it certainly
doesn't maximize the joy, of whatever makes life worth living. it doesn't maximize that. - yeah, exactly. - you wrote in the book
that anthony bourdain was one of your heroes. can you speak to what
inspired you about him? - yeah, he wrote a book called "kitchen confidential", in the 90s. i was in cooking school at the time. it was so... he romanticized cooking
in the restaurant so well. his writing is great. so he kind of got me into like, "oh, that's cool. i want to do that." it was cool. so, you know, got into cooking school, got more engaged in it. and it was like i had
this fomo feeling of, i wanted to experience what
it's like to be in the back... when you're in cooking
school, you are in the back. they had a restaurant,
we would serve people. but it's not the same thing
as actually being in a... a real restaurant, it's
like you're in a submarine with your teammates, and
you gotta win tonight. like, it's a real energy. and so, that was a big inspiration. i followed him. it was so sad that he
chose to end his life. but i also had met with him a few times. not like one-on-one
over dinner or anything, but just like, met with him, and just felt his love for food. and truly, just love for food. - he gave the advice of, "don't be afraid, get
excited and cook with love." - yeah. i've used that phrase, especially
the cook with love one. i mean, you know, one of the things about, which we talked about this earlier where, you get quick, tangible
feedback from a customer when you're in the restaurant. i know when i didn't
put love into that dish. i know when one of my line cooks did not put love into
that part of the dish. i know when that export
person did not put love into, you know, double checking the dish before putting it on the table. you just know. and "cook with love" is, whether you do it for your family. oh, actually, especially when
you do it for your family. the food doesn't have to be perfect, but you're cooking with love. - that's why you love scrambled eggs. - i do that, it's- - that's in the book,
kimbal scrambled eggs. - yes. - you promised to make me scrambled eggs, and i'm gonna hold you to it. - that's great. (kimbal and lex laughing) a cooking school you mentioned. the french culinary institute. i heard it was a bit of a
rough experience in parts. - i would call it... it's not a rough experience in that- - in a beautiful way. - yeah, exactly. it's not like i'm a victim of it. it's rough in that they
intentionally make it rough. so the school costs the same
price as harvard to go to. you show up, it's an' month program. you are allowed to drop out at any time, you don't get your money back. 25 people started, six people graduated. and the people who graduated... i graduated, but man, there
were times where i'm like, "i can't handle this." i mean, i would literally
say to my friends, "oh, i gotta go to cooking school. i'm gonna go get screamed at for the next six or seven hours." - [lex] yeah. - and i had this little french
chef, who was my nemesis. - does he still live
in your head somewhere? - he still lives in my head. exactly! he totally does. he's like 5'2" or something. and i remember him
screaming so much at me. he's like the short guy, i'm 6'5". the spittle would land on my face. - [lex] nice. - and i would just have to sit there, or stand there and take it. it was a very humbling experience. i did learn though that
it's intentionally rough. so it took a little
bit of the edge off it. one day, when that same
chef had come over to me and said, "move over a little bit." and then i moved over. and he took my carrots, whatever, and started just chopping everything. and like perfectly. and then he said, "okay,
now you can come back." and then he went over to someone else, and started screaming
at them, saying that, "look, even kimbal can do this. and you can't do this." and i was like... this whole thing's like a psycho game. - [le] yeah.
(kimbal laughs) - so it did take the edge
off when i realized it was... - [lex] yeah. - like the guy was intentionally
trying to break you down. and they do this apparently in the army. i've not been to the army, but... they need to break you down, everything you know is worthless, so that then we can teach you, and you can come out of it with what actually we want you to know. - are there specific technical lessons you remember you learned from that? sort of how to cut carrots, or how to approach food, how to prepare food,
how to think about food, how to carry yourself in the kitchen. you know?
- all of those things. i think that of the most beautiful lessons was actually scrambled eggs. so, there's different layers of chefs. so they're all master chefs, they're all very well known
people and everything. but alain sailhac was one of the chief, like main, main guys. and he just passed away. a master chef. and everything kind of stopped when he would show up in the kitchen. and he would teach very few things. and all of the other
chefs who would, you know, the same ones that were screaming at us, just like, it was like
the red sea parting. like they have total
respect for this human, and he can do whatever he wants. and one of the things
he wanted to teach was, how do you make an
omelet, a french omelet? and it's really
fundamentally the same thing. it's a soft scrambled egg that you fold. and the love that he put
into the time with us, and of course he's a legend. there were moments like that
where i'm like, "wow, okay." he also, just like the other chefs, didn't have any concern berating anyone. so he berated our master chefs. - [lex] nice. - saying, "i don't trust
these people to teach you how to make scrambled eggs. so i'm gonna do it instead." (kimbal laughs) - i mean, can you speak to that? 'cause you know, a lot
of people hearing this would be like, "scrambled eggs? like, why do you need to be a master chef to really make scrambled eggs?" - well, first of all, for me, and it's a learning journey forever. so, i make scrambled eggs. i mean, i must've made it
10,000 times or more, whatever. - so it's like "jiro dreams of sushi", "kimbal dreams of scrambled eggs"? - pretty much.
- [lex] okay. - so i will wake up, and be held accountable by my
kids to make scrambled eggs. this happens every morning. and... i know all the steps, muscle
memory level kind of steps. (kimbal mumbles) and then i'll cook it, and it's very meditative for me, because you have to focus. so most scrambled eggs,
soft scrambled eggs recipes are 10, 15 minutes to get
them to that perfect softness. and the recipe that i
got from chef alain was, something that you can do in 90 seconds. but it requires total focus. like if you like look up for a second, you're going to miss the perfect moment, when you have to stop and
get those eggs outta the pan. (lex chuckles) because the eggs will keep cooking. and so it's this meditation. and sometimes, you hit it like perfectly. but most times, eh... it could've been a little softer, could've been a little firmer, could've been a little bit more salt, could've been a little bit more of pepper. and so, what's really
fun about the morning is, my kids are kinda into it. so like, we critique the eggs. - [lex] yeah. - every morning. - do they have a rating system? or back to the spreadsheet? - it's more like... and again, it also comes back
to how do people feel, right? so my kids can be in a bad
mood, and they can be grumpy. - or it's like a michelin
star system, like what- - no, no, it's more like, "oh, yeah, i like my eggs
a little more gooier." or, "yesterday it was this way, but a little bit more
salt, a little less salt." salt is usually the one that is... because not all salts are equal. so if you are used to working
with a certain kind of salt, and then you just are
forced, for some reason, you ran outta salt, so
you use some other salt, you actually don't know how to use it. you really want to have
the same salt all the time. - yeah, you have a page
on salt in the book. - yeah, totally.
- which was fascinating. - salt is... you gotta get to know your salt, you gotta love your salt, and you gotta use it over
and over and over again. - [lex] yeah. - and it will teach you
how to use that salt, where by, your own palette will tell you how salty you like things. but if you change it up, and you mix up a whole bunch of salt, you've now multiplied your learning path. so for me, i, my favorite
salt is kosher salt. and i like to use that all the time. and if i ever change it, i might sprinkle a little
bit of molten salt. just crunchy, sort of a flaky salt. but it's more for that when
you're actually eating- - [lex] for the texture. - it gives you texture
as well as salt, exactly. you wouldn't use it on scrambled eggs. but if you switch out your
salts, it's a different weapon. - yeah, yeah.
(kimbal laughs) you need to learn it. - i like how, you know, usually
there's wine connoisseurs. you're saying, going back
to sort of farm-to-table, when you're talking about carrots in that same rigor and nuance, you have to consider the different farms involved for the carrots. in that same way, you have to
consider the different salts. - [kimbal] yeah. - with like- - and also not even all
kosher salts are the same. it's the particular salt that
you like, get to know it. get in a relationship with it. it's like, great. you will learn so much. - in terms of the
measurement, the proportion, the amount of salt you put in, are you doing that like exactly? or are you doing it by feel? - so, it's by feel, and that's where you get the relationship. so in fact, in the cookbook, i have qr codes that people can scan. because what i struggle with recipes is, they don't teach you technique, right? they can describe the technique, but they don't teach the technique. 'cause it's a technique,
it's not a recipe. and so one of the lessons
is, how do you salt a steak? and the answer is not... "here's a teaspoon, and
you do it this way." the answer is use kosher salt, so you can see with your eyes, 'cause they're little flakes, how much salt is on your steak. and then cook it, and then taste it. you know? do you think you need more
or do you need it less? okay, now next time, put a little more on it,
because you can see it. and it's about learning the
the fact that you want to be able to see how much
salt is on the steak, so that you can then train
yourself for the future of how much salt you want on your steak. - yeah, but then the steak and the salt kind of dance together. it depends on where the steak came from. - that's true, that's true. or the thickness of the steak. that'll make a difference. but for the most part,
if you're able to see it, versus table salt, for
example, it just disappears. you just can't see what
you're putting on your steak. you can't really learn as a result. - i think you talk about roast chickens, where your love of food began. well, what about steak? - well, i mean, i love a good steak. it's so great. - so in the french school, you add sauces and all this kind of stuff, and in boulder is when you realize like there's a beauty to the basic ingredient. - simplicity, yeah. like a good new york strip
from a good rancher that... there's a lot of discussion, controversy, on how cattle should be raised. and we have a very different
approach, which is, we know how our cattle are raised. we go to the farm. we get to know the rancher. and sometimes you do wanna
have them be finished on, like, they'll be grass-fed
for the most part, but then there's some sort of cool recipe of food you're giving them that will then make them taste better. and sometimes, it is actually pretty good to have a hundred percent grass-fed. i've had some amazing
ranchers that showed me that the flavors are all there. for the average person that, you know, might go to a whole
foods or a grocery store, i think the simplicity of a good steak... it is important to get good sourcing, but also it's just good. - what's your favorite cut of meat? 'cause new york strip... probably new york strip for me. - yeah, new york strip. yeah. i like the fact that it's
lean, but if you want the fat, you can dive into that
little strip of fat, or you can leave it alone, 'cause you don't want it that night. and it's also a great
steak for adding something. like if you wanna... you could either do like a pepper sauce, or you could do a lot of ground pepper, which gives it a peppery, not sauce, but it's a peppery steak. it's a really good steak for
like a canvas for other things. - but the basic ingredients
you're playing with is salt and pepper? - yeah, pretty much. - [lex] and then just the steak. - actually, i will say
there's another one. garlic. this is my favorite recipe for a steak is, you season it both sides, salt and pepper. you saute it in a little
olive oil, barely anything, and you're getting a nice crisp, like a dark golden brown on both sides. the other trick with cooking
a steak is, don't touch it. you know, you just put one side. when you're ready to
turn it, turn it around. don't touch any other time. but at the end, you take a dab of butter, and you crush a clove of garlic. you don't even chop it,
you just crush the clove. and you put the two of them in the pan, and you just roll the steak
around in the garlic butter. i think that's the way. - bold move, kimbal. (kimbal laughs)
bold move. since you're in austin quite a bit, opening a restaurant here, what do you think about barbecue? it's kind of the texas way. - well, i would say there's an austin way. - [lex] definitely an austin way. - and actually even austin would say there's a suburb of austin way, like- - [lex] yes. (kimbal laughs) - i think that actually, the
adventure of food is wonderful. i would absolutely say that austin is one of the great food cities of america. and barbecue is one of its
gifts that it gives the city. but you go to one and the other, and you'll have a different approach. and that's the part i love. is where there's a real
celebration of the artisan. so you might go to one, and they have a style that they love, and they've been doing it for years. and then you'll go to another, and they have a style that they love and they've been doing it for years. and it's still barbecue, but
they're actually different. and it's really beautiful to see that. that's what food culture is. like, it just builds up over time, by people who love this style of cooking. - well, i especially love the communal, like how they structure
restaurants usually. or... i don't even wanna call it a restaurant, 'cause it doesn't feel like a restaurant. it feels like a tavern or some sort. like terry black's is like that. it's like- - [kimbal] yeah, they also
have like paper towels. - [lex] yeah. - get as messy as you like. and it's a whole roll of paper towels. they don't just give you a napkin. they know what you're getting into. - yeah. and there's just wood everywhere,
and it kinda has this feel like this place has been around forever. it's not changing. i know it's the 21st
century with the internet and all this kinda- - [kimbal] yeah. - "nonsense that you people are building, but really this is all about the same." - [kimbal] yes. - "it's been the same for generations. we're doing it the same." that kinda feel. if you want to escape
the world in that way, and then truly connect with people. - one of the other things that'll happen in a town like austin is, there'll be a barbecue joint
that is just legendary, right? and then out of that will come someone who wants to go do their
own barbecue joint, and they'll take the learning
from that barbecue joint. they'll open up a new one, but it won't be the same as
the other barbecue joint. part of it's just like, "dude, like don't just do the same thing. like do something... what do you have to say?" - mhm. - but also part of it is, if you're in the world of
food, like as an art form, and you want to go open up
another barbecue joint... you kinda wanna prove yourself. like, i deserve to have a
barbecue joint in this town. i know this is one of the
holy grails of barbecue. - [lex] yeah. - and people will follow you like they're following a musician, or they're following an artist. and they are excited to
see what your version is, and how well you can pull it off. it's like, it's actually, that's what i mean by like
a city with a food culture. austin has that. - there's also like a
legend to certain places. certain places are more than
just the food they create. it's like... that could be a burden. you have to like, live up to the legendary
nature of the name. - our restaurant in boulder,
the kitchen, is 20 years old. we're very well known,
we're very well respected. and we do have to live up to the name. i think that our restaurant
lives up to its name in not just the food, it's like you walk in and
you feel the restaurant. and that is also something
we've just done naturally. the space is 120 year old
building, used to be a brothel, then it was bookstore. like, storied history. - [lex] that's an interesting date. - no, literally. this was a mining town, right? so back in the'00s, this was built late'00s, that sort of brothels, that was a thing. and so there's an actual
tunnel in the basement, that goes to the local hotel, that would be used for
going back and forth between the hotel and the
brothel, without people knowing. and the tunnel is now concreted up. but you can go about 20,
30 feet into the tunnel. (kimbal laughs) but you go into the space, and it's actually an old space, so you feel like it's been there forever. - yeah. in 2010, you had a
life-threatening accident that changed the way
you see life, the world, also the way you see food and cooking. can you tell me the story of it? - yeah. so 2010, i was 37. i had opened the restaurant in 2004. and i had loved the
restaurant world, loved it. but i didn't really want to
grow a restaurant company. that wasn't my goal. and so i went back into technology, and i had gone from something that i love, to something that i like. for me it was like... it was like chewing sawdust every day. i just couldn't believe
that i had changed my life. and gone back into technology. and now i do do work in
technology, and i do love it, but i found a better relationship with it. but i was really, really unhappy. from the outside, i was a
sort of ceo of a hot startup. but from the inside, i
was just very unhappy. and i was in jackson hole, and i was doing these very
aggressive snowboard runs. and i'm, at the time, a pretty
good, aggressive snowboarder. and i remember saying to myself, "look, i've got kids. i
need to chill on this." the next day was valentine's day. tomorrow's valentine's day, i'm just gonna have a
nice day with the family, and my wife at the time. and we went to a children's run, you do the inner tube run. and the tubes are small, but
everyone uses the same tube. so i'm 6'5", and my
kids are four years old, and everyone uses the same size tube. it should have been a message to me, not to get on this thing. but i went and got on it, and on the first run and i went down, and you're going super
fast, 35 miles an hour, and the tube hit the breaking
mats, and it stopped. the tube just stopped where
it was, it just threw me. my head was facing downhill, so that created the
wrong center of gravity. so instead of breaking, it just threw me. i landed on my head. my head went into my chest, like compression into my
chest, like down like that. i ruptured my spine at c6 an c7. and in like the blink of
a second, i was paralyzed. i was like, "what?" you know, just like
impossible to comprehend. and they put this thing halo on my head, and they take me to the hospital, which was more of a medical clinic. and i'm just like, "what's going on here?" - do you remember your thoughts
from the moment it happened, to like when you got to the hospital? - i remember being... so this is one of the things that actually the doctor said caused the most damage, was i was thrown from the tube, and i heard this big
crunch sound in my body. and i knew that i was hurt. but i didn't feel any pain. that's also... why wouldn't you feel pain? 'cause you know, you're
paralyzed, you don't feel pain. and i'm face down on the snow, and the snow is burning my face. 'cause you know, you can't do that. you need something... and i found a way to turn myself around, so that my face wouldn't be on the ground. but i knew i couldn't move. and that they said actually
caused more damage than... well, obviously the accident
created the opening, but once you move your body, the blood goes into the spinal
column at a faster rate, and that is what caused my paralysis. but i remember that and... i remember getting into the ambulance... - [lex] did you think you were gonna die? like in those seconds, minutes. - it was a different feeling of death. it was more... it was more of a, "what is going on here?" like i can't make sense
of what's going on. there was a moment when
i got to the hospital, and they did this mri, and the doctor comes up to me and says, "look, we've done this mri." so now i'm in the
hospital, and i can't move. but i also don't even feel any pain. so i'm like, it's very confusing. your body looks like you can move it. like, look, see how i'm moving my hand? like it looks like you can do that, and then it just doesn't move. there's no feedback loop
that it's not moving. your brain even thinks it's
moving, but it's not moving. it's like the worst, like
most terrifying thing. so the doctor says, "the way you broke your neck was at a zero degree angle. that is so rare. but as a result, there is
no twisting of the spine. we think that we can get the blood out of your spinal column, and you should get some or maybe
all of your movement back." and i was like, "oh, okay. i think i'm gonna be fine. i guess i'm gonna be fine." and then i realized i had tears just streaming down the side of my face. and i was like, "whoa, man. i have no idea what's going on." - so this kind of intense
state of confusion. i wonder if it's a kinda weird psychological defense mechanism, of like taking you away from the obvious possibility of death. - yeah, it was for sure, all of the defenses were up. (lex and kimbal laughing) i don't know how else to describe
it, but there was denial. - [lex] yeah. - there was... there was this curiosity of like, "why is there no pain?" like when they did actually
repair me and fix me, it was three days later... the pain was indescribable,
how much pain i was in. but there was no pain for three days. (kimbal laughs) - the human body is fascinating. - [kimbal] man! - wow... so they were able- - yeah, so they did this surgery, but i had this very clear voice in my head that i kind of determined that it's god. i'm not religious, but i don't know how else
to describe the voice. and his voice was very clear. "you're gonna work with kids and food." okay, where did that come from? i'm like tech ceo. i have a restaurant. and we were working with
some kids in schools, with like helping a local nonprofit. and he's like, "no, you're just gonna
work on kids and food." and my good friend antonio and my brother were in the hospital, and i was like, "i'm gonna
work on kids and food." you know, 'cause they're like, "he's crazy. he's lost his mind." but not that they were arguing,
no one was arguing with me, but i was like, "i'm
just going to do that. i need to say it out loud." and i remember resigning
from my job as the ceo, from the hospital. and that was it. it was just clear. it was a clear voice. wasn't for a moment, wasn't like a flash of light or anything. it was probably two weeks of clear voice. - [lex] of clarity. - clarity. exactly, clarity. and no monkey brain, nothing. no monkey brain, just clarity. - so you're not a religious person, but you do call it the voice of god. who is that god do you think? like, who is that? - [kimbal] yeah. - where did that come from? - well, i've done ayahuasca, and i've spoken to what
they call mother aya, which is another version of god. it's a divine presence. which is maybe, i think
is a better way to say it. i've also had this debate in my head, like, maybe it's just me. i'm talking to me. and it's my peaceful, more kinder, less caught up in the emotion
of the day version of me. maybe it's me. okay, maybe it is, but it's there. - but who are you? like how deep does it go? what does "you" mean? you could be, you know, first of all, like the depth of what
the human mind even is, is a gigantic mystery. consciousness, all of it. - [kimbal] yeah. - like who are you? like yeah, maybe it is you, but then maybe in order to build you, we need to build the universe. - [kimbal] yeah. - like you are actually, fundamentally a part of
this whole human society. so the pieces of humans
that you've interacted with are all within you. and then maybe the history of the humans that came before are also in there. and maybe the entirety of life
on earth is also in there. - [kimbal] yeah. - and the whatever brought
life about on earth is in there somewhere. - [kimbal] yeah. - so that's all you. - which is really true. evolution literally is
true, that we all are... the photons from the sun came in and- - [lex] you're part fish. - we all came from that. i think this one... you know, so one of the
things i do is meditate. i've been meditating for many, many years. and the way i meditate is, i sit and i listen to my thoughts, and i simply just do that
for 15 to 20 minutes. and it just calms the nervous
system, and i breathe, and just breathe through, because it's been a stressful day. and it's just a beautiful way to... i kinda do it around, remember i said i used to do a
scotch at the bar after work, now i go meditate instead. a little less-
- same thing. - a little bit better for my health. but the meditation i was taught was... sam harris actually taught me this. was not so much just about
watching your thoughts, but realizing that you're a watcher. you're actually a watcher. you're not just like, who
is the person watching you? that's you, actually. your thoughts are floating
through your mind, but you are the watcher. and i was like, "oh,
that's really interesting. okay, so i'm gonna learn. i'm gonna be the watcher." and what i learned was, i'm watching these thoughts go by, and there's a consistent other presence. and i'm like, "what is that
consistent other presence?" it's not a thought. it's not something i can
kind of let it float away. and it doesn't even wanna float away. it's just a consistent other presence that i can watch and feel. - so you are the watcher watching
the feelings and thoughts, but there's also an other
presence next to you almost. - yes. yeah. that's how i feel. and it's a beautiful presence. it's not a presence that
is trying to intervene. it's not a presence that is
trying to tell you what to do. it's just a beautiful presence. - and that might be part
of the thing you met when you took ayahuasca. - i learned about mother aya, where you have this
experience of talking to... actually, i would say the closest
thing to breaking my neck, that feeling was ayahuasca. - can you go through that experience? 'cause i'm actually traveling to the amazon jungle in a month, and i'll probably do
ayahuasca for the first time. - [kimbal] okay. - so, i need a preview. unofficial instruction manual. - yeah, sure. so first of all, i think many different
ways to do it, right? and i've done many, many different ways. there's a very western medicine approach, where you have doctors that
look after you during the day, you know, put an eye mask
on, you're on a futon, and you really are in a
western medicine setting. and it's frankly for me, has been the most powerful experience. i feel the most comfortable, 'cause i'm part of western
medicine in my upbringing. the other... extreme, but they're kind of in between, would be very probably
a peruvian ceremony, where you're probably gonna go, very much about you do it in a community, you do it with others, and you feel people go through their pain and their processing. so i know the whole gamut. but the thing that i found
most powerful about it, and profoundly powerful, i would say. first of all, it's non-recreational. so no one should do this for a good time. this is not a good time. this is a very- - almost traumatic? but in again, a beautiful way. - i was actually gonna say
that word, but it's not. it's not traumatic, it's profound. so it's more like you don't have... you really leave who
you were before behind, and then you become the
person you will be afterwards. (kimbal laughs) - and that's never an easy thing. - yes, exactly. and sometimes, what i recall was arguing with mother aya and saying, "no, i'm fine. like, what are you talking about? like, leave me alone." (kimbal laughs) and yeah, that- - how did that work out? (lex and kimbal laughing) but before 2010, the accident, and the two transformational
experiences you had, you were a very successful tech ceo. maybe go back to the early days with zip2. in 1994, you and elon started zip2. tell me the story of that. - yeah, so in '94 we actually
did a road trip around the us to brainstorm about what we
wanted to do after college. - what was that road trip like? was it- - that was awesome. so we went from silicon
valley to philadelphia. - [lex] nice. - in my brother's old, like a really cool, you know, it's one of those very old bmws, not ones from the 60s or 70s. but the car didn't work. it would break down all the time. but we had a blast. you know, we just... i remember going through needles... on the border of california-arizona, there's a town called needles. it's the hottest place in america. and the engine was not cooling, so we had to put the heat on. so we had the heat blasting
to cool the engine, keep the engine cool, and
we keep the windows down, because we can't stand
the heat in the car. but actually the outside heat is hotter than the inside heat. so you're just in a furnace
as you're driving through. - [lex] just sweating. - it was at night, even. i can't imagine doing that- - [lex] oh, wow.
- in the day. but yeah, it was wonderful. it took us a few weeks, i
think three weeks maybe. - first time across america? - first like a road trip like that. yeah, for sure. but it was really not a
road trip for tourist sites. we went to the weirdest places. and actually i would
say we didn't go to 'em, we broke down in the weirdest places. - [lex] yeah. (lex laughs) - because that's when we stopped. - did you meet any interesting people? - i remember we broke down in
the badlands of south dakota, about an hour from rapid city. and that road is empty. and so we actually slept in the car, because there was just no one around. there's no cell phones in those days. and eventually a trucker picked us up. he was just like, "man, you guys are the
dumbest kids on the planet." i was like 21, he was maybe 22. but he was so nice to
us, and so kind to us, and found us a mechanic in rapid city, and then found us a tow truck. and yeah, you find the
most wonderful people... when you're in a place of distress, people do wanna take care of other people. - they help you. - [kimbal] yeah, they wanna help. - and especially when
you're on a road trip... 'cause i've taken a road trip
across the united states, and there's a part of people where they... they really love that. i think part of them
wants to do that also. wants to kind of escape whatever
the local, the struggles, just whatever the mundaneness,
the struggle of life are, a road trip is a kind of
thing where you're like, "you know what? i'm going to get away from it all, and i'm going to experience
life in the full, the epic sort of jack kerouac
way of seeing america." the people, not the tourist
sites, just the human-ness. - yeah, exactly. this was not tourist related. we did, of course, one we stopped at mount rushmore at night, which you can see nothing. - [lex] yeah, yeah. - we thought that was hilarious. we couldn't see mount rushmore. - [lex] that's great. (lex and kimbal laughing) - it was like, well, we
physically were here. we took a photo of us- - in the darkness. (lex and kimbal laughing) you can just say you went
to the grand canyon too, just at night. - [kimbal] right. - and just visit different
places when the car broke down. i love it. so yes, you took the road
trip before founding zip2. - yeah, so i had a experience in college running a house painting business. that for me was my first
experience with success. it was very, very hard. it was a franchise where
they teach students how to paint houses. but i was good at it. you know, i built a team of 30
people after about two years, and so i had a taste of, "hey, i'm not, i'm not unable to do this." in fact, my most vulnerable place i remember as an entrepreneur, was i just loved the idea
of wall street and finance. i was kind of allured by it. this is in late 80s, i'm in high school, and there was a lot of these books, "liar's poker", and others that came out. and i was like, "ah, man, this is awesome. these people must be amazing." so i went to business school, and i busted my ass to get
like a kick-ass summer job. and i got a job in one of the main banks, and it was in toronto, but it was like the original wall street. and i was so disappointed with the people that i was around. i was just like, "whoa." i totally misunderstood
what the banking world is. it was a very large bank. i'm sure if i'd gone to
a more aggressive one, maybe i would've had a better experience. when i say aggressive, meaning
someone was paying attention. like this was just a... people kind of showing up
and not doing much, you know? and anyway, actually, it was funny. so, this is great. so, 1991-'92, one of those summers. but the summer job was, literally, they print out the sales
for all brokerage houses, for the whole company. pile of papers that's maybe
four or five feet tall. and you have a pencil, and you add things up using
your pencil and a calculator. and i had known about lotus 1-2-3 forever. excel was coming out, and i was like... "hey guys, you know that there's a different way to do this." (lex and kimbal laughing) and they're like, "don't
talk to us, just do your job. go do it." - [lex] just use the pencil. - so i went to the head of the data, i just asked because,
because in those days, you had the manila envelope, where you just write
the name of the person that you want this to go
to, and it'll go to them. it's like email, i guess,
but there's no filter. - there's no spam filter. - there's no spam filter. so i sent a note, i wrote a nice letter to the database administrator,
who i didn't really know. and i said, "would you
be open to me saying hi, and maybe i can get access to the file, rather than print the thing
out and use a pencil?" and she responded right
away, and we hit it off. i mean, she was great. and so she's like, "of
course you can have it." i can't believe these guys
are doing what they're doing. so, for the first couple
of weeks of the summer, i wrote code in lotus 1-2-3 that would... this is gonna sound crazy, but you type in the date range, you type in the geography, and you type in which part
of the bank you care about, and it will literally just
create a new spreadsheet, and the macro would print it out. it was like a magic trick for these guys. and... (kimbal laughs) - incredible. - i know, i know. it's sounding that... i mean, for me, i'm like,
"guys, this is so obvious." (lex and kimbal laughing) so i got all that done, and this job was supposed to
take three or four months, because you're doing this with a pencil. and now i'd created this macro that you could not just do it, you could tweak it and say, oh, i want this area of
the world, or this month, or that month compared
to that month, you know, all the normal things you
could do with a spreadsheet. and the software was on a floppy disk. and i was like, "here's the software, and just put it into your computer. right, now open 1-2-3." and it just pops up with a little box, so type in your dates and you know, i coded a little thing like that. and... what i was astounded by was, not so much that they
thought it was a magic trick, it was the lack of
appreciation for innovation. they just looked at it and they were like, "huh, that's nice." and i was like, we're
gonna have someone spend hundreds of hours doing something, and now it's something
you can do in a minute. - yeah, if that doesn't
fill you with excitement- - yeah, like, if that
doesn't move your needle, what the heck? and so i was really disappointed
with the banking world. anyway, but that was also fun- - such a good example though. yeah. and then also see the possibility of where that goes, you know? - but then i got back to business school, and i canceled all of my business
classes i possibly could. but i was actually in business school, so i couldn't cancel 'em all. all the finance courses, i was like, i'm done with that industry,
i'm not going back. so the vulnerable part for me was, my whole family's full of entrepreneurs, and there was this franchise
to do house painting. and i genuinely was afraid
that i wouldn't be good at it. and i was like, "wow, i
really am afraid of failure." it's very easy to avoid entrepreneurship, but if your whole family's entrepreneurs, and you go in and you aren't good... i was really afraid. - you're gonna have to face that failure every time you meet your family. - yes.
(lex laughs) our family are wonderful and everything, but pretty much everyone's
an entrepreneur. and of course, not everyone's perfect, not everyone's, you know, doing it successfully all the time. but when you're young, and
you wanna prove yourself, it really was putting
my heart on my sleeve. i started the business
in this part of toronto, and for the first... so you paint the houses in the summer, but you do all your sales
pre before the summer. you know, all the way till april, i was just not succeeding. and i was like, "oh my god, i'm just gonna fail." and i remember that, i was like... my whole nervous system
was like, "i'm a failure." and i remember i had
this general manager who, you know, he was like, "kimbal, you seem like you
know what you're doing. why are you not making any sales?" and so he actually went with
me on a few sales calls, and i was like... and he was like, "oh..." he was great. "you're doing this wrong,
you're doing that wrong, you're doing this wrong. and change those three things." and it was like a watershed moment. just like all of a sudden... and i just followed the instructions of what this guy taught me. all of a sudden, every
single sale i would make, i was like... i can't believe that i... it was really my lack of humility to learn from someone else. i was like, "no, i'm gonna
prove that i can do this without your teachings." and i was gonna fail. - so to you, that humility is essential for the entrepreneur, especially young. - i would say if we have
an openness to learning, which does require humility. you help get other people
to help you course correct. but it does start with humility. because if you try and pretend
you have all the answers, you don't. - so you went from that to founding zip2. that was an interesting
time in the history of tech. - [kimbal] yeah. - but i mean, what was it like you, you mentioned the first
people to look at a map, basically at directions. - yeah, so, mapping had
been on the internet, but vector-based mapping had not. so that's the ability
to zoom in or zoom out. and it's really data versus
an image that it comes across. and we went into this
company called navteq, my brother and i, and we
just asked for the data. this is silicon valley. they wrote us a one page letter that we had to sign and said, "here's all of our data that
we own it, you don't own it, but you can use it on the internet, and if you ever make any money
on it, you have to call us." - [lex] mhm. (lex laughs)
- that was it. - [lex] yeah. - and we're like, "okay,
that sounds great." and so we put it up on the internet, and back in those days, it
might take 60 to 120 seconds to actually give you an answer back. but it was amazing. the door to door directions, the ability to take a map
and zoom in and zoom out. we use these things 10 times a day now. it was amazing. and we were the first two humans
to see it on the internet. like, this stuff didn't
even exist to the world. like the navteq was building
it for hertz neverlost, which would come out a few years later. this was not something
that people knew existed. this was something we
discovered that it existed. and we're like, "well,
let's put it on the internet and share it with the world." - what did the two of you feel like? like, to see that magic? did you know- - it was amazing. (kimbal and lex laughing) it was like, "what?" (kimbal laughs) - like, i mean, the amazing,
just that it's cool, but also that you could see the future that this could transform... - i don't think people understand, before this moment, you could
not be told your directions. - [le] yeah. - you just could not. like today, we live in this world where we're told our
directions all the time. before this moment, you could
not be told your directions. - [lex] yeah. - and all of a sudden, you could. - [lex] yeah. - it wasn't like a little thing. - yeah, there's a bunch of things that, once we have, we take it for granted. and that takes like a day for
people to like transition. - [kimbal] totally, one- - it like boom. "oh, okay, cool." - yeah, exactly. exactly. - and when you see, maybe when you're one of the
first humans to see that thing, you're like, "holy shit." - "holy shit, this is going
to be used by everyone, all the time, forever." - so, zip2 was a success. - i would say it was a success, but it was also a very
hard company to build. and i mean it because, the internet in those
days was a boom time. we were being funded, but
you couldn't make any money. and so it was actually really hard. the constant outside criticism
that we aren't for real, this is not gonna survive,
this is not gonna... and it started to feel that way. we're like, "wow, man, this is..." we are doing something that is
great that people are using. and we were a top 100 website. most of our work was through
folks like the new york times, so we were even much busier than that. but there was just no money in it. even today, go to google
maps, there's no money in it. it's just local search that
is needed for everyone, and it became an add-on to search. but even remember in those days, you couldn't make money at search either. - [lex] mhm. - no one had figured
out adwords or anything. they didn't realize how
big of a business this was. but we all knew this was a thing, and everyone was using it. - but didn't quite know how
to make money out of it. - couldn't make money. when we got acquired, it
was a bittersweet moment, because compact had owned altavista, wanted to merge that
sort of regular search, which was the best search
engine at the time, pre-google, with zip2, which would
be the best local search, and it would be a yahoo killer. and compact just wanted to make money by taking the company public, but they wouldn't give us any stock. they paid us cash, which turned out actually
very well for us, because the whole internet bubble burst. we didn't know that at the time. and so it was bittersweet, because they essentially
wanted our company, and we were welcome to
stay, but you don't have to. - [lex] right. - and that feeling... that was a pretty rough feeling. yeah. - but in retrospect,
it opened the door to- - it set us up for an incredible platform to go do beautiful things. - you've invested in x.com, that eventually merged with paypal. that's a fascinating story there. also fascinating on many levels, including the fact the
current social media company, formerly known as
twitter, is now called x. history has like a rhyme to it. like it's kind of all hilarious
in a certain kind of way. you invested in, and helped sell a lot of the initial products for tesla. (lex laughs) - yeah, i still sit on the board of tesla. tesla is 20 years now. isn't that amazing?
- [lex] 20 years. - yeah. - from the roadster,
the initial roadster to- - i still have the first business plan. so i didn't join as a founder, i joined as a founding board member. and so i didn't write the
business plan, i got to read it. and i still have that, i still
have it as a part of history. - did you see the future at that time? like the company that tesla is today, could you and elon imagine it? - no, no. i certainly didn't. what i saw, and it was a real... for me personally, i was really upset that general motors had
killed their ev car. there's even a movie called
"who killed the electric car?" and i knew that the physics
of electric is perfectly fine. i mean, there's no reason why you couldn't use a electric
car to drive around. what resonated with me
with the business plan was, take an electric motor, which is really a high performance motor, and put it in a sports car, and sell it at a high price as a way to enter into the market. whereas what others had been doing, what at least general motors had done is, you put it into a really crummy car, and you sell it as a commuter vehicle that doesn't really work that well. and looks ugly as well. like they really did everything they could to make that thing as ugly as sin. and then i was like, "okay, i get it." we're gonna take an
appropriate technology, and put it in an appropriate car, because electric motors,
they have constant torque, incredible power... put it in a car that
looks like a sports car. you know, so the idea was to
put it in the lotus elise, redesign it a bit. and even at that point, i was like, this is theoretically good,
so i'm join and help build it, but i was not convinced
that it would work. because general motors had
done such a terrible job of making everyone think that
these things are terrible. but i was curious. and the time that i fell
in love with the company and its mission was, i was driving in what's called a mule, where we take a car, and
we take the engine out, and we put put in electric drivetrain. and i drove it, you know, even the dashboards, there's no dashboard. it's just like you got a steering wheel, and it's just like wires
and everything around. and i remember, there's a street
we were on in the bay area called bing street. and i was just like... no traffic. i was like, "i'm just gonna
drive this, i'm gonna floor it. see what happens. and it was a feeling i'd
never experienced before. gasoline cars have an inertia to them. so you... (kimbal hums)
- [lex] yeah. - this is just, was like
being shot out of a cannon. and okay, this is gonna be real. - it's very spaceship like feeling. - yeah. it's like, whoa. it's like g-force pulls you back. - [lex] yeah. - so i was like, "okay,
this is gonna be great. we're gonna create
something interesting here." i think the real
transformative thing for tesla was the model 3. when we were able to get the
price down for the world. - and that was also one
of the most challenging... - [kimbal] oh my god. - periods of tesla for you. - and do or die. i mean, we were borderline bankrupt like two or three times that year. i mean, and everyone was hating on us about whether we'd get that done. the model 3 today is
incredibly affordable car. like a 300 bucks a month kind
of lease, and $3,000 down. that's where you get the scale. that's where you get people who... and by the way, it's a great car. it's even a better model 3 now
than it was five years ago. we don't function the way car
companies function, right? we function more like how
an iphone company works, how apple works. so our model 3 today, this
year, is better than last year. it's like way better. and we just keep getting better. - and the software is a
fundamental part of the car, and the software keeps improving. - exactly. and we can upload over-the-air. - which was one of the things that people don't often acknowledge. it's the over-the-air updates. it's like a revolutionary thing. - [kimbal] yes. - it's not just the autopilot. to me it's like the over-the-air updates is an even bigger thing than an autopilot, at least in this like moment of history. because you basically turned
a car into the iphone. - exactly. it's an iphone with wheels. but actually, talking about autopilot, like right after this interview, i'm gonna go test out the latest model 3. - you're gonna get driven
around by the robot. - i'm gonna get driven around by the car. i'm gonna say, "i wanna
go to this barbecue joint. take me there and park me there." and i'm gonna see how it is. and this is the latest model 3 that we have out into production. anyone can buy it. and it's super affordable. and it's like, okay... full self-driving is a journey, right? it's not like there's a destination. it's a journey forever. so let's see where we
are on the journey today. - and there's been a
bit of a push and pull between you and elon in
terms of levels of optimism about deadlines and so on, timelines about when we'll
arrive at the destination. i like that you said it's a journey. - [kimbal] yeah. - for elon there's a destination. - [kimbal] right, exactly. - and that destination is tomorrow. - [kimbal] yeah, right. (laughs) - or yesterday. - that's a really good insight. i actually live with this
concept of a growth mindset versus a fixed mindset. and it's a, i don't know,
a philosophical term where, fixed mindset is about the destination, and a growth mindset is about
learning on the journey. and i think that i'm a happier person because i take that learning
on the journey approach. whereas it's really frustrating if it has to be about the
destination every time. - the nice thing about destination, at least from my personal perspective as like a programmer, engineer is like, it puts a little fire
under you to get shit done. like if there's a clear
deadline of a destination, you feel the anxiety of- - i would say that i still do that, but i call those forcing functions instead of destinations. - [lex] sure. - because you're just forcing people to crank on on some code
or cookbook or whatever, because you have a date. and oftentimes there's a reason, i mean, it's the 20th anniversary, you wanted to get the cookbook out. we have a reason, we didn't
make this up outta thin air. and so, yeah, that does push you. but just because we have the cookbook doesn't mean it's a destination. it means it was a forcing
function to get it out there, now we're on the journey. - speaking of journeys, i
have to ask you about spacex. i mean, the journey that
all of humanity's on. - seriously. there's a book about that
journey, that is incredible. - it's an interesting moment
in the history of humanity, that perhaps hopefully will
become a multiplanetary species. but spacex is also a company. you invested in spacex, you
were side by side with elon through the highs and the lows, through the lows and the highs. so, what were some memorable challenges? what were some low points? - [kimbal] sure. - from the history of spacex? - one of the hardest
times in spacex was... we were in the mid pacific in kwajalein, and my brother had had sold paypal. he'd done well financially,
but in the rocket world, that money goes away really quickly. and we were in this
military base in kwajalein, and i think it was the
second rocket that blew up, i'm not sure. but we didn't have infinite resources. i certainly didn't have the resources. i mean, i'm there to
support, brotherly support. so every rocket launch was do or die. and the first one had blown up. and so the second one... i think it was the second one, blew up, and it was so depressing. it was just like, "ugh." there's nowhere to go,
there's no distraction. you're on this military base,
you don't really socialize. so it's just, we were all together, and i had gotten to know... you know, for me, i'm not
part of the team, right? i'm just there for emotional
support or whatever, 'cause it's cool. and so i got to know a
couple of people locally, and got to know this one
guy who had a mobile home. best view in the world,
but it's just a mobile home with a good patch of grass next to it. and i was just desperate to find food that wasn't from the cafeteria. 'cause this is the worst
food you can imagine. - [lex] yeah. - and so i met him, and he showed me this tiny, little grocery store
which had a few things like canned tomatoes and... again, you're in the middle
of nowhere, so nothing fresh. and i made this dish that
was kind of a version of a... like an italian version
of chili, you know? just baked beans, and sweating
onions, and then tomatoes. and it was a big pot of food,
'cause it's a group of people. we didn't even have a table. and we just put the big pot in the middle, and we had our little paper plates, and we took a scoop as we needed it. and it was... the gathering place of like, food brings people together
in the most difficult times. and it was one of my favorite memories, because i was able to bring my gift to this group of incredible people, that their hearts were broken, you know? and to sit there and share a meal, and feel the life kind
of come back into us. and by the end of the night, we're actually having a good time. - what a fascinating contrast of rockets, kind of representing
the peak accomplishment of human beings as a society, and then returning to the thing that is the foundation of human society, which is that communal experience. - a communal, vulnerable connection. like we mentioned vulnerability earlier. the most vulnerable place, actually, that's when you have some of
your most beautiful meals. - yeah. the descendants of apes gathering
around some baked beans. - (laughs) right. - after watching a rocket explode. - [kimbal] yeah. - what gives you hope about the future of this whole thing we've got going on? humanity. - if you look at how things have changed over the past, say, 50 years, you can clearly say, "oh, wow." poverty rates have gone down, infant mortality's gone down dramatically. all these things have gone down a lot. so if you look at it on a daily basis, you can tell that life is very dramatic. you know, whether it's
something's blowing up on x, or from the newspapers or whatever. and you can really get caught up into it. but if you look back over
the past few decades, things are getting better. and i mean at the fundamental level, like are less people hungry? i mean, there is war going on, of course, but are there less wars? yes. and so i think if we all just
step back a little bit... it's less about hope, it's more of perspective and reflection. and if i do see a problem, like in case of the obesity epidemic, i work really hard to help with that. our nonprofit's called big green, and we work with 150
nonprofits around the country to help americans grow food again, get connected to their food. 'cause i really believe
growing food changes your life. and so okay, let's go do that. so i'll help out where i think we really can make a difference, but if you step back a little, things are actually getting better. it's just a bumpy ride. (lex laughs) - yeah, and for those of
us watching all of this, i think i would love to see
more celebrating of the people that are helping. the people that have found
their way of helping, and just celebrating those people. - yeah. well, i would also... actually, that's a really nice point. i have learned that you really wanna celebrate your successes. because even in the
greater scheme of things, i've learned this in the startup world, where you're constantly facing death. you know, like just why
should you even exist? do your customers want your product? or whatever. and then something will
happen where you're like, "wow, we really nailed that. that's really great." or you got a product released, or got some good kudos from something. "all right, everyone,
we're gonna go celebrate." and actually everyone's still like, "no, no, we've got all
these other problems." "nope, we're gonna go celebrate, and then we'll go back to the problems." 'cause if you don't do that, then it just starts
building on this kind of... you never really get to celebrate. - mhm. and be grateful. well, i think this is a
good time to go celebrate the very fact that we're alive today. we get to live and enjoy
this incredible life, the two of us, and have
this great conversation. and we'll get to celebrate
over some scrambled eggs. - beautiful. - [lex] i'm gonna hold you to it. - beautiful. - kimbal, thank you so
much for talking today. - thank you for having me. - thanks for listening
to this conversation with kimbal musk. to support this podcast, please check out our
sponsors in the description. and now, let me leave you some
words from anthony bourdain. "your body is not a temple,
it's an amusement park. enjoy the ride." thank you for listening, and
hope to see you next time.