if you're into science, technology, and/or
space, chances are you've heard of the space elevator. and if you're paying any attention at all,
you've seen just about every famous advocate of space or science parrot out pretty much
the same facts for the last 10 years. just last week as i was writing this, the
illustrious whooshing-animation youtube channel kurzgesagt released a video on this very topic. but yet again, it was same bland analogies
and overall glossing over of the details. well i may not have an expert animation team
or a sexy british accent, but what i lack in charm, i'm going to try and make up for
by diving into the quote-unquote meat and potatoes of engineering this literal stairway
to the heavens. hey i'm grady. today on practical engineering we're designing
a space elevator. i'll go through the background quickly because
chances are you've already heard it from at least a few people who are more handsome
and charismatic than i am. the space elevator consists of a long tether
between a geostationary satellite and an anchor point somewhere on the earth's equator. a climber would ride along the cable to take
cargo and even humans into space. the goal of the elevator is to reduce the
complexity and risk associated with rockets and make access to space more routine. some have estimated that it could reduce the
costs of getting a payload to orbit by 95%. unfortunately, there are some major engineering
challenges that we need to overcome before the idea of an elevator to space can ever
become a reality. let's take a look at what they are. to analyze the space elevator, it helps if
we use a rotating reference frame. this simplifies the math by making the elevator
static or unmoving. having a massive static structure just like
a bridge or dam puts us squarely within the realm of civil engineering, which most of
us agree is the best kind of engineering. but how do you analyze a static structure? it's simple: make sure all the forces cancel
each other out. since the structure is at rest, its acceleration
is zero. force is mass times acceleration, so the net
force must be zero as well. let's add up the forces on a satellite first. we have gravity which pulls straight down,
but the force of gravity varies with distance from the earth. this is based on the inverse square law which
basically says that gravity gets weaker and weaker the further you get from its source. gravity is the centripetal force pulling the
satellite toward the earth. since we're within a rotating reference
frame, the satellite also has a centrifugal force pulling in the opposite direction. this force is also dependent on the distance
from the earth. for a given angular velocity, there's a
particular distance from the earth where these two forces are equal and cancel each other
out, making the satellite static within its reference frame. if you're trying to keep a satellite above
a single spot on earth, or geostationary, the angular velocity has to be the same as
earth's rate of rotation, approximately one revolution per day. the centripetal and centrifugal forces for
a geostationary satellite are equal at a distance of approximately 26000 miles or 42000 kilometers
from the center of the earth. this is known as the clark belt. below the clark belt, gravity is stronger,
and above it, the centrifugal force is stronger. but what happens if we add a new force to
the satellite, say for example, the tension from a gigantic elevator cable? now we've increased the centripetal force,
so we need more centrifugal force to balance it out. looking at the equation, we basically have
two options (both of which come with costs): increase the distance of our satellite from
earth or increase its mass. this is the reason why some have proposed
using a captured asteroid for the counterweight. next, let's take a look at the climber. unlike the rest of the space elevator, the
structure of a climber is fairly easy to conceive. but it does have it's own engineering challenges,
the main one of which is power. a trip of over 22,000 miles or 35,000 kilometers
is no short journey. unfortunately, running an extension cord is
just not feasible at these scales. what about solar power? we can do a thought experiment just to test
out the idea: just for fun let's assume we could take all of the power from a high-performance
thin-film solar panel and magically convert it into work just to lift the solar panel
itself. using the wonders of calculus, we can estimate
that it would take on the order of a week to get from sea level to the clark belt. that sounds pretty reasonable until you consider
the fact that it doesn't include any of the weight of lifter's structure or motors
or payload or friction or drag et cetera. it's a very generous theoretical minimum
trip duration using solar power. the reality is much bleaker, so bleak in fact,
that solar power itself has been pretty much ruled out for powering the lifter. actually the only feasible way we've come
up with so far is beaming power either through microwaves or gigantic lasers. and i'm using the word "feasible" loosely
here, because even though practically every engineer ever has waited their entire lives
for a problem where the solution was a gigantic laser, it's actually not much better than
solar power. the most power-intensive part of the journey
for the climber is at the bottom, where gravity is strongest and centrifugal force is weakest. this is also the part of the journey where
there's lots of atmosphere that would distort and abberate the beam of the laser, reducing
its efficiency even down to about a quarter of a percent. that's like using an entire nuclear power
plant for a single mid-rise office building. luckily, scientists and engineers have developed
adaptive optics, a system of measuring and compensating for atmospheric distortion in
real time. this is like noise-cancelling headphones but
for mirrors. it's normally used for large earth-based
telescopes to produce sharper images through the atmosphere, but it could also be applied
to sharpen the beam of a laser passing up to power our lifter, possibly increasing the
efficiency by tenfold over a non-adaptive system. finally, let's take a look at the tether. if a 26,000 mile rope is unimaginable to you,
you're not alone. the tether is generally considered the most
significant impediment to the overall space elevator concept. the amount of stress a cable can withstand
before breaking is called its ultimate tensile strength, and it's measured in force divided
by the cross sectional area. a thicker cable can withstand more force because
it's cross sectional area is larger. and that jives with our common sense. ignoring the weight of the lifter for now,
the only force on the cable is the force of gravity due to the weight cable itself. the tension in each part of the cable is the
weight of everything below it. as you keep moving up, the cable is having
to hold up more and more of itself, so its diameter must keep getting bigger and bigger
to stay below the tensile strength. again using the wonders of calculus we can
estimate the taper ratio or the ratio between the tether's diameter at the bottom of the
elevator, and its diameter at the point of maximum tension at the clark belt. obviously this ratio is extremely sensitive
to the density and strength of the tether material. for steel, the taper ratio is 10^33. that means if we have a 1 centimeter cable
at the bottom, it would have to be 11000 times the diameter of the observable universe at
geostationary height just to be able to hold itself up. in other words, absolutely, positively, categorically
untenable. for kevlar, things look a bit better with
a ratio of 10^8. but that's still 1000 kilometers in diameter,
still completely unfeasible. i'm sure you see where this is going: nanomaterials. here i, and indeed most people who have looked
into this question, take small scale laboratory test results and wantonly scale them up larger
than anything humanity has ever constructed in real life, completely skipping any intermediate
steps because, well, the technology hasn't even made it that far yet. current estimates put the taper ratio for
a carbon nanotube tether at somewhere between 2 and 20, which is a massive improvement over
currently available materials. but only time will tell whether these superlight
weight ultrastrong materials ever become a reality outside the lab. is what i've done here a simplification? yes. is it a gross simplification? absolutely not. they say the devil's in the details, but
that's not really true for the space elevator. the biggest hang ups in this concept are the
most fundamental aspects of its design: the mass of the counterweight, getting power to
the climber, the strength of the tether. i didn't even have time for details and
trust me there are a lot. it's almost to impossible speak in hyperbole
about the space elevator. we've never built anything remotely similar
in terms of size or technical complexity. and there's no doubt that if we could build
it, it would completely change the world by making access to space routine. if it ever does happen, it will be creative
and passionate engineers leading the way. thank you for watching and let me know what
you think. hey if you liked the video, i'd really appreciate
if you push the like button and subscribe to the channel. if you like space, i've got a few other
videos that you may find interesting. if you like giving money to strangers, your
support on patreon goes directly toward improving the quality and quantity of these videos in
exchange for being a part of the inner circle of people who i rely on for feedback and advice. finally, if you like the idea of saving someone's
life, please consider joining the bone marrow registry. the likelihood of being matched to someone
in need is low, but if it happens, you might the only person in the world who can save
that person from a life-threatening disease. donating bone marrow is not much different
than donating blood. click the link in the description to find
out more. again, thanks for watching.