i recently had the opportunity 
to visit asml's headquarters in   the small village of veldhoven in the netherlands. it was a wonderful experience. i learned a lot 
about the company's history, culture, and more. and i was honored to have the rare 
opportunity to see the $300 million   or whatever high-na euv tool. i call it the beast. so in this short video, just a few random 
thoughts on seeing asml in the flesh. ## eindhoven my hotel was in eindhoven, which 
is short ways near veldhoven. the town is quite nice, albeit rather 
slow-paced. by the way. for what it is worth,   i paid my own way including transportation and 
hotel stay. and asml did not sponsor this video. eindhoven will forever be 
known as the home of philips,   the once-massive consumer electronics tech giant. they first built the lithography machine 
technology and later spun off asml   as a joint venture with asm international. they were also tsmc's 
cornerstone foreign investor,   owning 28% of the company at 
the start and 36% later on. philips later sold off all the shares they got 
from both those efforts. as of this writing,   the two companies have a combined 
market capitalization of $1 trillion.   would have been nice to have those stakes now. but such is life. investment managers in 
the mid-1990s were pressuring philips to   sell those stakes to "unlock" shareholder value. ## asml in veldhoven over the past five years, asml has grown 
incredibly fast in almost every possible way. for instance, the stock has gone nuts - to the   utter surprise of virtually everyone 
who has ever worked at the company. the company has gained a huge and unexpected 
new following in the popular consciousness.   that includes a great deal of people 
who believe that the company's products   make chips right out of the box like a 
pasta machine. not the case, by the way. and then headcount. today the company has 
over 42,000 employees across europe, asia,   and the united states. a bit more than 
half work at the dutch headquarters. and some 20,000 of those employees joined   the company in just the past five 
years. that is kind of staggering. all this past growth - plus anticipated future 
growth - has caused some issues. for instance,   where to put them. the company's current campus   sits between two highways, 
which constrains its growth. on one side you have natural 
protected areas that cannot be   developed. not to mention that there 
is a very large highway in the way. on the other side you have residential 
development and homes, which i assume   belong to the village of veldhoven. i don't 
think it is in the company's best interest to   irritate those people by surrounding them with 
big industrial buildings. so what can you do? the company wants to expand their factories 
to add more capacity for euv and duv machines,   particularly the former. there are also 
concerns about having enough water and power. plus transportation. most people 
have to drive in because veldhoven   is a literal village and the roads 
are not adequate to handle all that.   so the company is negotiating with 
the local governments about that. ## debate those negotiations have caused 
a bit of a ruckus recently. a few stories made it into the news 
about the company potentially "leaving"   the netherlands. you have stories of 
something called "project beethoven",   a $2.5 billion incentives plan by the government 
to "keep" the company in the netherlands. the name is rather dramatic - fit for a movie. 
but it does no favors to the core issue. to me   it seems fair that one of the things that 
governments should do for their residents,   businesses included, is to provide infrastructure. but the negotiations have stirred up a 
debate in the government. a group of dutch   people have the sentiment of "just go then!" and indeed, several previously 
dual-headquartered companies   like shell and unilever have left the 
netherlands for the united kingdom. but based on what i have seen and heard,   i don't think leaving the netherlands 
is an option. veldhoven has been asml's   home since they were unceremoniously 
dumped there after the philips spinoff. so much of the company's supplier base 
and talents live and work here. asml   is not going to pull an oracle and force 
them to relocate. they want to stay. but   if there is nowhere to expand, then they seem 
to be open to doing that expansion elsewhere. fortunately, that doesn't seem necessary. 
in april, the company signed a letter for   land for a second campus somewhere north of the 
eindhoven airport - close to the current campus. ## culture
let us talk about company culture. tsmc and asml are like siblings. they 
share a corporate parent. tsmc turned to   asml and their lithography machines to defeat the   then-dominant japanese semiconductor makers. and 
over the next thirty years, they grew up together. i can feel how their cultures align. both 
companies have a strain of "get it done"   and "no excuses" culture. they are both 
very technical. when discussing issues,   their focus is almost always on the science 
and technology. they like geeks and builders. at asml, people have to be ready to 
argue and back their points because   their peers will challenge them on it. 
"challenge" is one of their core values. perhaps it has a bit to do with the 
dutch attitude, which is famously blunt. so the company's recent massive 
hiring wave presents a big challenge: how to integrate all that new talent and 
bring them into asml's unique culture? i am reminded of the big hiring 
sprees that the american tech giants   like google and meta experienced during 
the pandemic. with all that new hiring,   there inevitably has been 
some loosening of standards. right now, times are good. but as they 
say in a famous show, "winter is coming". early on, asml lost millions struggling 
to compete in the stepper market,   surviving only thanks to government 
subsidies. and even later on,   the industry's frequent cyclical 
downturns have meant layoffs. the company's struggles are engrained in 
its literal architecture. their office   buildings were designed such that they can 
be hived off and rented out if necessary. as the old guard luminaries start to 
retire - like cto martin van den brink,   who has been around since the very 
beginning - i can't imagine that   people aren't wondering about how to retain 
the things that made the company successful. the fate of asml's old parent 
company philips serves as a   stark reminder of what can happen if people 
get complacent and the old culture is lost. philips is still around in eindhoven. the name is   everywhere. asml's parts labeling 
number system comes from philips.   when i visited asml, philips was then doing a 
popup shop, selling lights and coffeemakers. but today philips is a mere husk of 
what they used to be - taken down by   suffocating bureaucracy and excessive invention. if you want to learn more 
about asml's history and rise,   i do again recommend the book "focus" by marc 
hijink. it is very thorough and on the point. ## competitors asml has a monopoly on euv. i 
don't think that is changing. the technology cost billions of dollars to 
produce. a competitor would start 20 years   behind. and with the number of buyers so limited, 
they would never make their r&d investment back. but most of what asml ships in 
a given year are standard duv   twinscan machines. these duv machines are 
the industry's workhorse and pattern the   vast majority of an integrated circuit - 
everything but its deepest, densest parts. the duv machines do indeed have a lot of 
competition from the japanese - nikon and   canon. historically, they were the market leaders,   and the companies are still around 
today. they are a formidable crew. and of course, the chinese lithography-makers   like smee are also trying to get there too. 
they are far behind, but highly motivated. for this reason, asml focuses a great deal on 
productivity and improving cost of ownership.   it is the idea behind the twinscan's twin   scan. asml's goal is not to make the 
prettiest or even cheapest machine. or the machine that most satisfies the armchair 
semiconductor engineers on twitter or hackernews. asml's goal is to make a machine that offers 
the best value for its customers - the most   accurate and productive machine 
possible. even a billion dollar   machine can make sense for the fab if it 
can accurately do enough wafers per hour. ## building machines i was curious to see how they 
assemble the lithography machines   in the cleanrooms. but i probably 
should not have been so surprised. the cleanroom factory reminds me 
for some reason of a very bright,   very clean home depot. it is a bustle of activity   with workers in blue or white bunny suits 
walking about - sometimes with equipment. by the way. despite the fact that asml's product 
is a physical thing, it seems like only a minority   of its employees work the factory floors. most 
work in offices - sales, software, and the such. anyway. down a few hallways, we have these 
medium sized, well-lit rooms. inside each room,   there is an euv or duv system being assembled, 
like a patient in a hospital room. the machine   gets put together using the customer's 
requested modules, and then tested. the customer reviews the data and 
the simulation tests and signs off. after that, the machine gets pulled apart 
into modules again over the span of eight   to ten days. asml then carefully ships those 
parts over to the customer's fab. after the   customer gets the machine pieces, another team 
carefully puts it together over a much longer   period of time. they run a final spec check and 
if that is all good then it's the customer's. during my visit, asml was in the midst of 
assembling some high-na euv machines. so i   got to see some of those modules first. the 
easily identifiable modules are the laser,   light source, illumination optics, reticle 
stage, projection optics, and wafer stage. very quickly, here is how it works. the 
drive laser generates euv light in the   light source. the light gets evenly 
spread out in illumination. it then   bounces off the reticle/mask and gains 
the chip design information. that light   then gets shrunk down in the projection 
module before finally hitting the wafer. ## the beast i was honored to have a chance to see 
the beast - a fully-assembled high-na   euv machine, the exe:5000. the beast sits in its own room somewhere 
within the asml factory. it is about two   stories tall - a massive conglomerate 
of wires, pipes, tubes, flashing lights,   and metal frame. the first thing i said 
when i saw it was: "this thing is insane!". it wasn't even everything. the drive laser, a 
massive co2 laser from the german company trumpf,   sits in a nearby room. those and other 
sub-fab components take up two whole floors. the metal is particularly striking 
- shiny stainless steel that looks   fresh out of the cnc milling machine. 
everywhere you look on this thing,   you see luminous steel and rough, sharp edges. when you are in the room with the 
beast, you hear pumps constantly   whirring - like vacuum cleaners. i am 
told that you get used to the sound. the beast is so large that it has its own 
ladder and platform attached to it. you   can climb up on top of it and look down on 
the various modules like the light source. the old low-na euv machine had its light   source near the machine's bottom - 
i guess where you'd call its belly. the beast raises its light source up to the end 
of its spine. this lets them take out one mirror,   a big boon since each mirror reduces 
the euv light power by 30%. i expect   that innovation to eventually filter 
into the low-na euv machines too. the machine was extensively re-engineered 
from low-na. now knowing that the euv   light collector mirrors need 
to be replaced every so often,   the designers rejiggered things to 
make that mirror easier to access. the wafer stage is the same as the older machines.   but because the mask field 
size has been cut in half,   the reticle stage has been engineered to move 
twice as fast to overcome that productivity hit. it moves so insanely fast you cannot believe it   is also making movements that 
are precise to the nanometer. and the machine's whole top can be 
lifted up and set down on itself.   i like that little design touch. 
that is done using a custom-built,   automatically-guided crane inside 
the cleanroom. yes, it needs a crane. i am not sure if the beast was running at the 
time i visited it. but the belgian research   institute imec and asml are working together 
on a high-na euv ecosystem and that includes   offering a pilot line with the beast for 
potential customers to make test wafers. and to add, i do think tsmc will eventually 
buy these machines. most analysts agree with   me here - even the initially skeptical ones. 
tsmc likes the technology, just not the price. if that is all there is,   then i am sure they will close the gap 
and bring the beast to tsmc fab floors. ## hyper where are we going next? there is no light wavelength after 
euv. you are basically at x-rays now   and that stuff is hard to project 
and manipulate using lens. optical   is everything at asml. they don't 
seem to believe in e-beam direct. so it is hyper-na euv, then. but does 
that mean the machine is about to get   even larger? in a few years, am i going to 
be standing in front of an even bigger beast? asml people are aware that that's not feasible 
and they talk of ways to keep the size from   blowing up again one more time. we shall see 
what brilliant tricks they can come up with. it took asml 10 years to do high-na euv. if 
asml decides to do hyper-na euv right now and   it takes a similar development cycle, 
then the company - and the industry as   a whole - has some form of vague clarity of 
its lithographic future into at least 2040. ## conclusion
i want to sincerely thank the people at asml for their kind hosting and thoughtful 
replies to my idiotic questions. we focus a lot on asml's machines, but 
i think there should be more attention   on asml itself - the machine 
that builds those machines. the people at asml are aware that high-na 
euv does not work, right now. there are many   problems. there is more than a little skepticism 
floating around, particularly on the internet. but the company has faced similar doubts 
before. twinscan, 193 nanometer immersion,   and euv all did not work at the beginning 
too. the first euv machine took 23 hours   to pattern a single wafer. today's best 
euv machines can do'0 wafers per hour. the key thing was to get going on it,   and to work closely with the fabs and the rest 
of the semiconductor ecosystem to eventually   get there. if there is a pathway to 
making it work, then that is enough. to me, that is the sort of technological optimism 
that we all need to have more of in our lives.