i would like to show you a number trick. so regular scientific calculator i'm not trying to conceal anything, but i would like you brady to tell me what to write i'm gonna put some fives into the calculator. maybe you call this trick the surprising fives. i don't know maybe that's what i call it and someone else could think of a better name but i'm gonna put the digit 5 into this calculator as many times as you want me to. so tell me how many times you'd like to put the number five six so five five five five five five whatever you have told me were to run with that and next two steps are the same whatever we do. the first step is to take the reciprocal of this number. you can see why we're doing this on a calculator i know that you could do it given time but the reciprocal by x to the minus 1 or 1 over the answer gives us this number handily known as 1 over 555 555 so far so good and now we take the sine of that answer. so it's gonna be sine of the answer and we get this result which is where i want to check what you notice... it's pi! is it? it's pi-like it's pi times 10 to the minus 8 it's pi like enough to cause a reaction in anybody who's seen pi before i think. okay so you gave me six fives, i want you to give me a different number of fives now one one five mathematician in the making here, brady you see something surprising, you test the extreme cases, really really sensible mathematical things that reciprocal 1 over 5 is otherwise known as 1 over 5 or 0.2 and i take the sine of the answer and it give me the answer 3.4906 times 10 to the minus 3 not so pi-like i kind of talked you into giving me more than one five i deliberately said give me as many as you want so i invite you to try this experiment again how many fives you'd like this time? 13 13 fives, let's see if our calculator will cope so that as a reciprocal is 1 point 8 times 10 to the negative 13 my calculator has given up trying to display it as a fraction. this is a tiny number. take the sine of that yeah, pi-like i mean if you know your pi expansion, this is pretty pi-like except for the whole thing at the end which you did spot pretty quickly that times 10 to the minus 15 this time. that's the trick it's a classic example of what i like to call "unexpected pi" pi turns up literally all over the place in mathematics particularly when you don't expect it obviously when you're doing stuff to do with circles it turns up. we haven't mentioned a circle so far, pi has turned up somewhere there are several clues that i've kind of concealed from you but in the rest of the video i'd like to explain why this happens, but it's worth leaving as a surprise if you want to go and if anyone watching the video wants to figure out what's going on now's the time to do it before i give it all away the only clue i'm going to give is your calculator should be in degrees mode otherwise you won't get as nice a result. that's the clue, have a think. the reason i like this trick it's not so much a trick is that it's surprised and i think you need three bits of maths to understand it there's a nice example of simple bits of mass coming together to give you a surprise chapter one reading. oh that's like an audio book brady do you know what a radian is? it's like a unit for measuring angle, isn't it? yeah, we and we're used to using degrees so if i drew a circle and chopped up into support a circle that right angle would be 90 degrees which means there's 360 degrees all the way around 360 is this arbitrary number that we sort of inherited we didn't have to use it in fact, we still don't have to use degrees almost everybody learns about degrees of school and it's a useful way of talking about how much you turn 360 what they think is to do with our year, we're 365 days is close to 360. so a sort of full cycle of a year is round about the 360 so there's a connection in history there. the babylonians used counting's in base 60s, which is to do with 360 or 3600 and all of these things are sort of historical accidents and we still see this in our time measurements in hours and minutes 360 is convenient. you can chop it up a little bit, but there is a better way to measure angles let me show you the definition of radian now this circle has a certain radius and if you start deciding i want to angles around the circle in a some non-arbitrary way you could use 400 say and actually they do there they could call that gradients 400 gradients all the way around if you go to your calculator, there's a mode button that goes between degrees and radians and gradients there's a g in there as well. so gradient means 400 bits around a circle it's kind of like metric degrees li because then a right angle is a hundred and we will kind of recognize right angles are important and why 90 then in some ways gradients are very sensible i think the french tried it for a while they liked metric izing lots of things, but it didn't really catch on and not a lot of people use it a lot i'm sure people will comment if they found good examples of it being used but even that's arbitrary i mean my eye pick 401 i'll go for a hundred when i go for a thousand we could do anything and actually our choice is free we just have to accept the consequences. so what you might want to do is pick a measure that has fewer horrible consequences and more nice consequences and everything to do with the circle is tied up with its radius you can already see a clue in the name radians that's why i'm going to talk about so this circle has a radius of our one complete turn seems important but another amount of a turn would be if you start walking around this circle some distance. why don't we pick a distance? there's already part of the circle which is a radius so if you know the radius what would happen if you walked around the circle a radius is 1 radian so the name is good. if you shown it to rad is it's one radius of a turn so it's making length and angle measured the same way on a unit circle it means if there's radius is 1 then you walk a distance r worn around the circle. you've gone one radian it does have a consequence which some people find nasty, but just deal with it. all right, is that all the way around the circle? it's not a nice number anymore or rather is a nice number but it's not a rational number because you know the formula for distance around a circle is 2 pi off if the radius is 1 the distance around is 2 pi which must mean then to do a full turn is 2 pi radians, okay so that's chapter 1 we're almost there the little summary is that if you accept that all the way around a circle is 2 pi radians it was also known in the olden days or in our previous less state as 360 degrees i can now write this relationship down 2 pi radians is the same as 360 degrees which means that we could say that pi radians is'0 degrees again sort of this arbitrary - and this gives us the relationship the kind of the exchange rate if you like so one radian is the same as'0 over pi degrees this relationship is important that's chapter one of our little story we've got to understand the radians are an alternative way to measure circles and they work like this chapter two then small if i show you a picture of a graph his set of axes and here is what looks like a straight line graph this is a relationship between two variables. this is a linear thing. they call it linear because of straight lines but if i show you that same graph on a bigger scale, you could realize that i could have drawn a graph like this so the thing i'm trying to point out. is that a sine wave which is involved in our calculation is a graph this a function has an input and output but if you zoom in on this sine wave right about here can you see that it looks a bit like this? so what we're saying is that although this is not a straight line function part of it looks like it is so if i zoom in in fact if you work in a certain angle measurement which i'll label in a moment then this straight line function, which is only true at the beginning is actually the graph of y equals x whereas the original function is y equals sine x and i hope you recognize now that the title is kind of relevant when angles are small sine x and x are basically the same thing so here's my conclusion. you can go and look up some ways to prove it but visually it's pretty convincing if you zoom in on the sine graph sine x is approximately x2 caveats for small angles and only in radians which is important that we have chapter 1 available to us if you drew a graph of this in degrees which then this straight line does not have a gradient of 1 which the claiming is if you if you think about this line being going up to 1 here and you drop a line down here. that's a it's about 60 degrees there so the grading of that line in degrees, it's like 1 over 60 tiny number so the question is what? angle measurement do you need to make it have a gradient of 1 which is why i'm claiming well you need that to be 1 and then it would be grating 1 only if you realize that those are 2 and then that's a 3 my scale is a bit rubbish. but that means this must be pi and that's 2 pi and now we're back to our radians idea this sign x is approximately x for small angles and if they're measured in radians end of chapter 2 chapter 3 fraction you remember that in the trick? we did a reciprocal in fact, we did one over five five five five five five and actually what's important is to recognize that as a decimal that looks different and actually when you gave me six the calculator just spat that fraction back is like 1 over five five five five four five is one over five five five five five and slightly annoying in the calculator telling you the question when you just asked it what the answer is so has a decimal we could do is do a bit of long division and work it out or i could force the calculator to tell me two six fives i do the reciprocal of that one over that you get y over five five five five five five. otherwise known has according to my calculator 0.000001 eight and very faintly you can see there's a dot above the second zero dot above the eight do you know what these dots mean? in europe, they wouldn't recognize them either in europe they might write this like this but that in thai bar, but that also might make you look horrified it is that more familiar recurring? yes? for some reason britain is inherited the dot notation you've mark the place where it starts with carrying with a dot and the place where it stops were going with it and they need to carry on most people use in the rest of the world. i think use the line they call it a vinculum it's the same line name as the line between a numerator and a denominator they say there's a fine line between a numerator and the denominator and it's called a vinculum anyway and this is one of them thing is it's a recurring decimal so if i didn't put the dots on here if i wrote this carried out it would be zero zero zero zero one eight zero zero zero one eight and so on so turning fractions into decimals now what we could do if you were so inclined maybe i encourage any watches of the video you could go the other way around you could check this recurring decimal say if that's a recurring decimal how do you turn that back into a fraction? it's actually because of school level skill but when it's this long a recurring thing takes a little bit of guts to go through the process, but for now there's one thing in this decimal expansion which was not obvious in the fraction that gives us a clue about why this is working and it's the only numbers that are kind of significant in here's these two numbers possibly followed by the zero after it and if i just refer back to a piece of paper from chapter i'm trying to point out this number has turned up and suddenly we get a glimpse of why these things are coming together the conclusion of all three chapters is when we put these facts together and we'll do the trick again with all three facts now, it's all under our control and hopefully it becomes obvious why the unexpected pyatt ends up? so let's try it. first of all, you did one over five five five five five five do you accept that the answer to that calculation is small? yeah which means we're in this world of small angle approximation if i'm going to do a sine of something i'm in this world of small-angle approximations but i didn't say at the very start but i did admit it at the end i needed your calculators be in degrees not these magic radians we've been talking about so if i do one over five five five five five five and then take the sine of it, which is what our whole calculation was it is not gonna be equal to one over five by five five five five or even approximately because we weren't working in radians if we were working in radians, then the input would be the same as the output. that was my small angle business so let's go back to our three chapters starting at the end chapter three the decimal version of your number i'm gonna write it as one point eight times 10 to the negative something. let's check one two, three, four, five six. so ten to the negative six but we're working in degrees. so if i wanted to turn it into radians so that i can start using my small angle approximation up here. i need to check back chapter one my conversion turn radians into degrees. in fact if we want to go the other way around we better just check it's just the opposite exchange rate. i wanna turn my degrees which is what the count later was set up into radians so i'm going to just turn it into radians by multiplying by the exchange rate which is pi over'0 that was in degrees, and this is now in radians i've done the conversion, which means i can now use this chapter to business to say this is approximately equal because sine x and x approximate equal because this is small there's no question this is a small number it's approximately equal just to that number one point eight times 10 to the negative six times pi over'0 and you're beginning to see the light at the end of the tunnel. there's a pi in there we can see what's coming from and there's some ones and eights possibly cancelling so let's turn this into 100 eighty if i make that a hundred times bigger i better make this a hundred times smaller to compensate times pi over'0 and now i think you can see that'0 divided by'0 cancels out and i'm left with pi times 10 to the negative 8 which is the end of my trick. that's where the surprising pi comes from you do a bunch of stuff to do with the number five and out pops pi to a very small power of 10 and the reason you are using fives is because of the relationship between fives and this 1/8 yes it actually to do with the fact that there are five's in 90 so recurring decimal is quite often to do with the number nine and ones where? recurring is doesn't happen off that every single digit ends up to do with being 90s and nine hundreds and so it's all to do with the fact that five times' is 90 gives us a clue. it does mean it we should better predict what happens though? i had to do a scaling of a hundred to get the cancellation to happen 10 to the negative to our hundredth to make it work otherwise what you'll see is that is to do with a number of fives over here we had six and that six is not coincidence. so we're probably in a position to make a prediction we've done the process once with your example. we should be able do a general one you want to pick a number of fives you haven't tried yet? i mean 10 10 5 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 there are 10 fives before we actually do the calculation this is the power of mathematics. we should be at an a predict what's gonna happen? we're expecting a pie to turn up but what power of 10 you reckon? if you turn this into a reciprocal, i think you'll get a power of 10 to the negative 10 but we're gonna have to adjust it in our calculations like we did before by another two, so i'm hoping pie times 10 to the negative 12 let's find out take the sine 3.14159 blah blah blah times 10 to the negative 12 even if it's a pointless trick at least math the power of mathematics. let us predict the outcome air. we are surprising pi from surprising phibes you know when i graduated from high school, i felt like i was on top of trigonometry and now i'm nobody sure i could tell you what a sine and a cosine and a tan really are if you're anything like me and you want to brush up on what all this stuff really means check out this amazing course on brilliant who are today's episode sponsor? this is a fantastic way to brush up or get on top or maybe even learn for the first time about what? trigonometry really is how it works. what's it about? look at that some of its coming back to me now this whole course has been lovingly designed by people who really know trigonometry but also really know how to teach you it's one of just many courses and quizzes and puzzles you'll find on brilliant go to brilliant org slash numberphile to check them out if you use the slash numberphile, they'll know you came from here but also you'll get 20% off a brilliant premium subscription that gives you access to everything on the site all the good stuff that's brilliant org slash numberphile the numberphile podcast is available on well most podcast players just search for numberphile i also put it on the numberphile 2 channel if you'd rather listen on youtube the latest episode the one that's just out is with ben sparks who you've just watched he talks about his life his career mathematics and what it's like having an identical twin brother check out the links on screen in the description all the usual places