- today, i am going to shock (lightning buzzes) awe and amaze you with some mystery tech. okay, i was expecting that to come my way. because today, we're gonna look at the rca 15 se series led tv. the slogan is, "made for today." i don't think a 15-inch
led tv is made for today. if it's made for today,
i wanna go to tomorrow. - [matt] you're really
showing your privilege on this one here. (suspenseful music) - it's a clear tv. why does this exist? oh, the remote's transparent too! why is the remote transparent? - [matt] so you can have
a harder time finding it in your couch. (drum sting) - we've done lots of videos on tvs, but i don't think i've
ever actually looked at one that was so transparent where you could really
see how empty this is. - [matt] and how terrible their
cable management is. (laugh) - i mean, normally you can't see, right? is there a practical
benefit to a clear tv? - [matt] so this is actually made for the u.s. prison system. inmates are allowed to buy
a tv through the commissary, and it has to be clear so that way they can't smuggle any contraband in the electronics. you can buy it on amazon
right now, just fine. but this model specifically
is sold in u.s. prisons. - i don't know what to do with
this piece of information. is it cool? is it not cool? is it an interesting use of technology? is it icky and disgusting and terrible? - [matt] you like to commit tax fraud, so. [music] commit tax fraud it's a felony [music] [music] do do do do do [music] - [matt] i just truly forgot
just how tiny 15 inches is. - when you forgot what
15 inches looks like. what are you accustomed to these days? - i'm accustomed to
something much girthier. - girthier? - something-
- you mean wider? - a lot wider-
- taller? - a lot wider than it is tall. - like a (mumbles) pipe? - (laughs) yes. - [woman] i love that the
product page for this says, "the unique transparent body means it seamlessly fits
with your current decor." (austin laughs) - hmm, boy, what a great display to put with your brick
walls and your iron bars. yikes, i'm making a lotta jokes about something not very funny today. (prison bars slam closed) - [matt] i'm not gonna lie,
this actually is not terrible for a prison tv. i thought they would still be on crts. - and you know what's actually
is kinda cool about this? if you flip it over, you can
actually see the back light. you see how it, that's actually lit. how much does this cost, matt? - [matt] it costs about $120. - you could get a larger
tv for this price, a smart and whatnot, but
what you can't get is style. and this is the height of style,
elegance, and translucency. - [matt] it's a clear value. - ferro liquid speaker
from dr. orange, the doc. oh, i think i know what this thing is. so ferro fluid is iron-based fluid that will react to magnetic
pulses and look super dope. - this is like "splatoon"
for colorblind people. - all right, let's cut the seal. i'm curious, 'cause this could be neat, or it could be really dumb. as with all items on "mystery tech." - [matt] (laughs) i would vote the latter. so it's in a box. - [ken] this could be a
very expensive set piece. - [matt] this looks like something that would show up in "drake and josh." it's squareable.
- it's hysterical! - i'll say you got a little
blob of ferro fluid in there, which i better just kinda
shake it up a little bit. you just kinda-
- are the socks done yet? - i will say though it looks
like an eye, i don't like it. - [matt] so what does
the fluid do exactly? - [ken] it goes ba-blam. - blaaaaa. - [both] ba-blam. - also, i don't know what, do you know what this thing does? - [matt] oh, it's a pacifier. (laughing) - [ken] oh god. - so it does say you can use bluetooth which i think is the
only way you can do it. oh, oh, oh, this is a handheld magnet. - [ken] what, oh to move the fluid. - [matt] you can move the fluid around. - all right, let's fire this up, shall we? start switch is number
eight, which is on the back. okay, i'm gonna press the button now. - [matt] oh, that's sick. - [ken] oh, it's even more eyeie. - [matt] i like-
- no! - [matt] oh, i like that, no. - okay, all right, all right, all right. - [ken] why is it looking at me? oooooh. yo! - oh, this is some nightmare shit. - [matt] i like this so much. the time is march, 2020. the curse is spreading and
it is biting in your body. (all laughing) - and then you can slow
it down if you want. (slow techno music) yeah, so you can just kind of adjust it to see how active you want it to be. i will say though, this speaker
does not sound good at all. wait a minute, it's broken. - [ken] what? - i literally, the speaker, it's like literally just
sitting down on the bottom. - there are definitely like pegs for it to like mount to something, but there is nothing to like- - let's investigate. i feel like this is actually broken. (electronic screech) look, it's just, they're dangling. i'm telling you that's
where the speaker should be, and it's just dangling on the side. - [ken] yeah, you're not wrong. - so what we can do is not judge this based
on it's audio quality, which is mediocre at best, but in fact on its spooky fluid action. i still don't think it's worth
$500 or 350 bucks, though. like if this is like 80 bucks, it's kinda like a cool piece to go. but like, i mean, to be fair this does look like it
should be like a prop. - [matt] that's the whole point of it. it's an aesthetic piece. you're not buying this
for the practicality. - like we can leave this
on the back of the set and have it just like slowly bouncing, and actually would look really cool. this video was sponsored by stamps.com. if you own a small business, january means a lot of things. catching up on email,
dealing with returns, and the inevitable,
increase in postage costs. that's why stamps.com has your back. with 20 years of experience,
they have a partnership with both the u.s. postal service and ups to get you incredible discounts, like up to 86% off usps and ups rates. stamps.com automatically tells you what the fastest and cheapest
shipping options are, all from the comfort
of your home or office. whether you've got a
side hustle online shop, or doing full-on warehouse shipping, all you need is your computer and printer. they'll even send you a free scale to make it easy to schedule a pickup through the stamps.com dashboard. and if you sell online, stamps.com seamlessly connects
with every major marketplace. start the new year right
by saving serious money on mailing and shipping. get started with stamps.com today. sign up at stamps.com/austinevans for a special offer that
includes a four-week trial, plus free postage, and a digital scale, no long-term commitment. again, that is stamps.com/austinevans. and a huge thank you to stamps.com for sponsoring this video. (package whooshing) that's heavy. (box drops heavily) what is it?
- oh, i know what that one is. - alternate tech life. what's the alternate tech life? have i been living the pleb tech life. - [matt] metaverse. - if this is the metaverse, i'm gonna personally complain to the zuck. i'm opening the box now. okay, wow that's- - [matt] you're gonna
need a very specific tool to get into this box. - oh no, is this one of
those like promo boxes, where you have to like
unlock it or something? - [matt] yeah. - i feel like we could just pop this off. - [matt] no. - but there is a pull tap right
here, so i'm gonna rip it. - [matt] nope, no, no! - what am i supposed to do? - i don't know if that, wait. - no, do do the pull tab.
- do the pull tap, okay. - do the pull tab. (dramatic music) (tab snaps) (matt laughing) (crowbar smashing) - i have now opened said
box, and it is open now to reveal that it didn't open. it's a lego piece. nope, it is open. - no, no, that ruins the whole thing! - wait, oh look, it's
closed and you turn it. oh wait, oh i locked it. - [matt] you did it, thank you, thank you. - so do i need to use
magsafe to unlock it? okay. - [matt] it's really magsafe? look, get the hell outta here. - it's locked with magsafe. - [matt] that is so stupid. - oh, oh, i get it now. oh, okay. - [ken] he's finally understanding it. - i finally understand. [music] da da da da da da da da da [music] (all laughing) so i've got a magsafe battery bank. oh, there's a case for, this is for 13? - [matt] oh, we ordered this a while ago. - so are you trying to
say this is for a phone that is outta date now? - [matt] oh, magsafe is timeless. - this don't fit, lovely. - [matt] what do you
notice about your phone, and that dock right there? - [ken] oh my god. - [matt] is this, what do you ever do? so you can, yeah, you
don't even need the case. you just, yeah. oh yeah, yeah see, is it a fun? - esk. (lively organ music) priority mail. is this like an unreleased
intel cpu or amd cpu? is it ddr6? yeester llc. - [matt] that's all the hints you need. - friend of the channel, mr. yeester, my arch nemesis at microcenter, and my compatriot when it comes
to testing tiktok tech hacks has recently launched an
exciting new business venture. yeester paste. yes, this is an actual real product that you can actually check out in the link in the description. he sent a lot of yeester paste. this is, this is- - [matt] have you seen the
way he puts on thermal paste? this is gonna last you half a build. - so we've got ourselves
the yeester paste, which has 12.8 watts per
millikelvin, and it's 3.5 grams. oh, it's so cute! look, it's a little smiley
guy to hold your thermal paste on the side of your system. he's just a happy little guy. he wants to hold your thermal paste. so this actually is pretty cool. so essentially it comes
with this practice tool where you could say
draw your little pattern and then you take this,
you push it over the top, and you can see just how
well it actually spreads out. i'm gonna just try to gently do this. i'll do one, there you go. so watch and behold how
amazing this is gonna look when i squish it. everybody ready? three, two, one, and squish activate. (duck quacks) well that's so- (all laughing) so i just gotta push it
down a little bit more. [matt] you look like
you've built a pc before. - ha ha weird, huh? check out yeesterpaste in
the link in the description. you can learn more about how
to be better at thermal paste. i'm gonna take some tips from
the thermal paste man himself. hasbro selfie series. oh, it started with a selfie. now when you look inside
this box you'll find a customized one-of-a-kind
action figure, of yourself. not too long ago, aaron, our fine editor over on "this is" just put
a phone in my hand and said, "hey, can you just like
take some pictures here?" and i was using some app that
was like scanning my face. and because "this is", i always assume that there's gonna be
some wacky shenanigans. well, i'll say it's not like sealed. (whistle heightens) wait, is it? wait, i accidentally
peeked it a little bit. it's a a "ghostbusters" thing. am i a ghostbuster? [music] da na na na na [music] [music] da na na na na na na na na [music] [music] royalty free [music] the reveal is... (deep chortling laughing) look at that, look at
that high quality face. definitely looks just like me. (box whooshing) okay, so there is some real
weight and heft behind that one. - [matt] where's it from? - is this what you call tape? we've got, hear, here. oh, oh, there's a bunch of stuff in here. so we've got ourselves the focal bathys. - [matt] aye oh. - that sounds sounds like a
"game of thrones" character. on top of that, they also sent over, oh, these are the open back
reference headphones, the clear. so these are traditional
like reference headphones, which i'm gonna take a look at a second. the bathys though are, i mean these are very high-end
looking bluetooth headphones. oh, look at that. my favorite things. noise canceling headphones
with high-fi sound and french design. - [matt] french design, oui, oui. - the thing with focal,
generally speaking, they make a wide variety of headphones and speakers and stuff, is that this is very high end, right? so we're not talking your ford focus. oh no, we're talking about
your mclaren f1 of headphones. all right, let's unveil. - [matt] whoo hoo, hoo, hoo, hoo, gee! - aluminum, those are
actually surprisingly light. so something interesting about these is that while they seem like
they've got an open back, they're actually not, which makes sense, because these do who have
active noise cancellation. so traditionally when you get
to very high end headphones, they'll have what's known
as an open-back design, which will help with
things like soundstage. but at the expense of
everyone else in the room hearing exactly what you're listening to. and in the case of mr. kenbolido, sometimes that's a
little bit embarrassing. if he had any shame to give. - no shame. - look at the app. the app looks very fancy. hello, welcome rich person
to your brand new headphones. - [ken] yeah, i feel
like i owe someone money after this app. - i'm one percent down with
firmware, so i'll be right back. actually here kim, show me this. - [ken] woohoo. - i need gloves to wear these. you know that you bought something
really high end and fancy when there's no plastic wrap anywhere. like you pull it outta the box, and it is perfect and ready to go. so when you're saying
open back, that is wild. they're also so lightweight. so these are aluminum and magnesium wow. - [matt] i love the shine on that. - so i always listen on spotify
because spotify is the best. the problem though is the
spotify does not support hi-fi. and honestly look, i feel
like most of the time you can't tell the difference. for me, i can't tell the
difference beyond going from like a 320 kilobit mp3
to like flacs and stuff. i know some people can
hear the difference. for me, i'm not quite that
sophisticated of an ear. okay, what's some apple
music on an android device? i think i need to call jony ive and report you to the police. - [ken] no, the only person- - [matt] he doesn't work there anymore. - good point, he didn't give a shit. - [matt] he don't give a, yeah. - so we'll do is this, i will
use the hi-fi apple music to listen to the crazy
high-end headphones. and then for the bluetooth headphones i will just use spotify
because that's the way that a normal person
should listen to music. - [ken] he's making a face. he's experiencing oral bliss. - [matt] aural. - ah, holy fuck. (laughing) ken, come over here for a second. play it for 30 seconds. wait for the drop. i may have pooped my pants. (matt and austin laughing) - the bass is nice. - dude, that drop was wild. i was not expecting that. - the fact that they
can do that with these is kind of impressive, 'cause
there's a wide soundstage even with these being closed back. - matt is an experienced audio engineer who will be impressed by nothing. not even the most bliss of world bliss. - i will say it's a little
bassy for me personally, but still really crisp. - these are the best
sounding bluetooth headphones i've ever heard, full stop, no anything. and that's not even
plugging the in via usb, and getting the true audio experience. am i gonna honestly tell you to go and spend $800 on bluetooth headphones? of course not. these sound better than airpods max. but what they do not do
is they don't give you quite that same like transparency mode and the noise canceling
of the airpods max. like these are definitely
meant more for an audio file. we've listened to the bathys,
the bluetooth options. now let's listen to the big boys. (quiet mellow music) wow, it's like i have
literally nothing on, like there is no difference. - [matt] it's like wearing nothin' at all. - you ever get into trouble,
all you need to do is- - feels like i'm wearing nothin' at all. nothin' at all, nothin' at all. - [matt] and we could
hear it too. (laughs) - the clarity is wild. that's immediately what i hear. i hear just everything. i'm hearing new colors right now. there's like a buzz on the
back of the instrument. i've never heard that. i'm not gonna lie though, as
much as those sound amazing, this is the move. to me, i don't have time to
sit down and appreciate music and to blast the whole
room with what i'm hearing. shout out headphones.com. if you wanna send us some more
headphones for "mystery tech" i'd be happy to thoroughly evaluate. - [ matt] yes, send us. - no, no, no. - [matt] send us headphones. - don't do that. (guitar tones)