they called the people's republic of 
albania the most isolated country in europe. throughout the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, 
this small communist country remarkably   managed to join with ... and then split with 
three different major communist powers. after its third and final split, albania 
ferociously pursued economic self-reliance,   and it made them the third 
poorest country in the world. what does it really mean to be self-reliant? 
let the albanians tell you. in this video,   we look at the rise and fall of communist albania. ## beginnings albania is a small country in southeast 
europe. taiwan is about 25% larger. it is near the mediterranean sea and bordered by 
montenegro, kosovo, greece, and north macedonia. today about 2.8 million people live there,   making it about as populous as taipei city. 
the capital and largest city is tirana. albania is known for its beautiful 
landscapes. 20% of the country is   covered in forest. and many rivers flow 
through it - draining into stunning lakes. there are also several massive mountain ranges 
like the albanian alps. the mountainous,   swampy and forest-laden terrain make 
it difficult to find arable land. there are also some very bewitching natural parks 
like the theth national park in the aforementioned   albanian alps. these lands are largely untouched 
with striking rock faces, valleys and waterfalls. thank you for watching my hastily 
made albanian tourism video. ## old history this is the first time i have mentioned 
albania, so we will need some background. i am not going to get to everything 
and i apologize in advance for that.   the goal is to get what we need to move forward. throughout its history, the lands of what we now 
call albania have felt the influence of foreign   powers. we shall start with the ottoman turks. 
the ottomans first invaded these lands in 1388. but were then driven out by the 
feudal lord, military genius,   and albanian hero skenderbeu. he held out 
against the superior ottoman forces - winning   the admiration of many in europe. but then 
he died as humans unfortunately tend to do. by the late 1500s, the ottomans occupied the 
lands once more, ruling them for another 400 or   so years. under their influence, much of what had 
been a christian population converted to islam. ## king zog i in 1912, the newly established country of albania 
was a feudal society of about a million people. the country's lands had rich natural resources 
like oil but those were very undeveloped - the   average national income in 1927 was $40. and the 
economy was dominated by large absent landowners. lacking influence, the country was torn 
between two major powers. in april 1915,   the uk, france and russia made a secret 
treaty with italy. if italy entered the war,   then they would receive territories 
including those of albania's. italy's influence would last for decades, 
though they contributed little to the   country's economic development other than 
to start production on some oil fields. taking advantage of the interwar chaos, 
one of albania's large landowners,   ahmet zogu, became prime minister 
with yugoslav backing. but zogu   quickly soured on the yugoslavs 
and sidled up to fascist italy. then in 1928, zogu declared himself "king of the 
albanians". the newly crowned king zog i clashed   with the italians, refusing their demands 
to more closely integrate their economies   and admit settlers. he added a british officer 
presence to counterweight italian army influence. but king zog i could not improve 
the economy. albania's economy   was dependent mostly on natural resources 
like oil like the kucova oil field. they   also exported cheese, animal 
skins, eggs, and livestock. when the world fell into an 
economic depression in the 1930s,   the albanian economy fell under 
deeper influence of the italians. ## world war ii in march 1938, the germans invaded and 
annexed austria. a few months later,   they annexed czechoslovakia. italy felt like they needed to get in on the 
annexing game too. and with king zog i recently   welcoming the birth of his first son - an heir 
to the throne - they had to make their move. so on april 7th, 1939 italy invaded. the 
albanian army posed them no threat. the   former king fled and victor emmanuel iii took 
the albanian crown. but the albanian people   resented the italian occupation and organized 
a resistance split into two significant groups. the first was the national front or the 
nationalists, led by mid'hat frasheri. they were a disparate group of landowners 
who rejected communism and sought to   restore albania's geographical integrity. 
they somewhat leaned towards the west. the other large group was the communist party 
of albania, or officially the albanian party   of labor (partia e punes e shqiperise). it was 
created in 1941, when the communist party of   yugoslavia sent one of their members to 
unify the small scattered parties there. this party was led by a man named enver hoxha. ## enver hoxha enver hoxha was the son of a muslim clothing 
merchant and grew up in an ordinary family. he was a hardworking student without any 
obvious talents. nevertheless, his uncle,   a guy with great ambition, got him 
admitted into a prestigious high   school in the city of korca - the albanian 
national lyceum (liceu kombetar i korces). hoxha was an average student, but showed a 
talent for politics and a desire for power.   he was also easily underestimated, 
which contributed to his future. after graduation, he went to france 
for university but did not complete   his studies. after some time in brussels, he 
returned to albania and worked as a teacher.   at some point before then - it is not 
clear when - he became a communist. hoxha was present at the founding of the 
communist party of albania. as i said,   the yugoslav communists had called a 
meeting to build unity but the various   group leaders refused to accept a single leader. so they set up a central committee 
with the goal of running a collective   leadership model. hoxha was selected, and he 
quickly dominated the committee. eventually,   the rest of his peers on the committee 
would all either be jailed or executed. ## victory albania remains the only country 
in central or eastern europe to   have been "liberated" without any allied help. per the advice of the yugoslavs, the 
communist party of albania ditched the   economic messaging of marxist-leninism and 
instead preached national liberation. thus,   they formed the national liberation 
movement with their allies. they launched guerrilla attacks against the 
italians, unafraid of violent reprisals. in fact,   they hoped that the italians would hit back - and 
radicalize more people to fuel their own ranks. then in august 1943 with italy ailing,   the nationalists and the communists signed 
the secret mukje agreement to join together. unfortunately the agreement quickly 
fell apart due to differences over   whether to fight for an ethnic albanian country. the nationalist policy had been to have all the 
albanian ethnic peoples under a single state.   such a state would have included kosovo, 
which was then part of yugoslavia through   serbia. the albanian communists - then backed by 
yugoslavia - obviously found this unacceptable. the differences spiraled into violence - 
the communists attacking the nationalists.   so the nationalists allied with 
germany. in september 1943, the   germans sent paratroopers, occupying the country. this discredited the nationalists and ended 
their influence in the eyes of the albanian   people. after this difficult setback, 
the communists returned with ferocity   and in november 1944 marched into 
the capital city - winning the war. the fighting had been bloody. over 28,000 
albanians - out of a population of just   1 million - perished. in a speech at the 
paris peace conference in 1946, hoxha adds: > of the 2,500 towns and villages of albania, 
850 were ruined or razed to the ground. all   the communications, all the ports, mines and 
electric power installations were destroyed,   our agriculture and livestock were plundered, 
and our entire national economy was wrecked. ## consolidation very quickly, hoxha moved his new 
provisional government to action. not to rebuild from the horrors of war, 
mind you. but to purge its opponents.   koci xoxe - the minister of the interior - 
led a purge that brutally targeted elites,   anti-communists from the interwar years, 
and all other "enemies of the people". people were convicted in sham tribunals 
without due process and nearly 2,000 were   executed. others were sent to one of 39 newly 
built jails - often in remote areas. there,   they were fed scraps and 
forced to work in the mines. the party set up a secret police - the directorate 
of state security or sigurimi. like the stasi of   east germany, they had over 200,000 workers at 
their peak, keeping millions of files on people. on april 1945, yugoslavia recognized 
hoxha's provisional government as   albania's legal government. later that 
year, the soviet union did the same. in december 1945, albania held "free" elections,   and the communists - who were the only candidates 
- won with 90% of the vote. a month later,   hoxha abolished the monarchy and declared 
the country to be a "people's republic". ## yugoslavia as i mentioned, the communist party of yugoslavia 
helped found the communist party of albania,   gave military assistance, and sponsored 
the people's republic as a government. but of course, such things don't come free. 
in return, yugoslavia pushed albania towards   joining the yugoslav federation - which included 
among others slovenia, serbia, croatia, and so on. such a federation would be led by 
then-prime minister josip tito,   who styled himself as the "great 
liberator of the balkans and europe". yugoslavia and albania signed close technical 
and economic agreements - coordinating their   monetary systems and education. they 
sent over grain to stave off food   shortages. joint ventures were formed 
to exploit albanian natural resources. in this arrangement, albania supplied natural 
resources to yugoslavia, who produced industrial   goods to sell back to albania at inflated 
prices. how was this different from the italians? but at first hoxha was helpless 
to stop it. in june 1947,   the yugoslavs began publicly attacking hoxha 
for his supposed "anti-marxist views" - in a   plan to eventually replace him with 
his minister of interior, koci xoxe. in early 1948, stalin apparently told 
milovan djilas of the communist party   of yugoslavia that they had no 
special interest in albania and   agreed that yugoslavia should "swallow" it - 
provided that it be done at the right time. was stalin being sincere? who knows. 
it's stalin. but at some point,   yugoslavia's determination to acquire albania 
combined with moves in greece turned stalin   against tito. stalin sent a series of letters 
to tito, publicly criticizing his policies. upon receiving the first letter in mid-april 
1948, hoxha took advantage. in a secret meeting,   the soviets guaranteed that they would 
not allow a yugoslav attack on albania   and granted him free hand to purge 
the party of pro-yugoslav influence. stalin's intervention saved hoxha's butt. in 
november 1948, koci xoxe - once the number   two in the regime - and his cronies were 
abruptly stripped of their titles. xoxe   was arrested - dragged out of his house 
next door to hoxha's - and put on trial. xoxe - who himself previously oversaw many 
sham trials - was swiftly condemned to death   in one of his own in 1949. his last wish 
was that his family be spared persecution,   and his son allowed to pursue his education. the government did neither. and the 
"liquidations" as they are called would   continue throughout hoxha's 46-year rule. 5,037 
men and 450 women were executed under his tenure. ## hoxha and stalin after 1948, albania severed 
their ties with yugoslavia   and joined comecon - entering the soviet orbit. from 1949 to 1951, all of albania's trade was with   comecon states. the soviet union 
by itself made up half of that. the soviets sent food and military 
aid to the albanians - about $200   million dollars worth in total between 1948 
and 1960. they transferred technologies   and also built several airfields 
including even a submarine base. completed in 1952, this submarine 
base - located on sazan island on   the adriatic sea - was a major thorn in 
the side for the american sixth fleet. today it serves as a training ground for the   british royal navy and nato forces. 
hoxha must be spinning in his grave. the albanians for their part considered 
their soviet association to be an upgrade   in prestige. in his later years, hoxha showed 
an immense personal admiration of stalin,   even publishing a book about their meetings. in it, hoxha recalls stalin being very warm 
and kind to him during their five meetings.   the soviet leader makes casual, coffee shop small 
talk - asking hoxha about albanian history, their   customs, and the landscape. stuff that any member 
of his staff could have put together in an hour. in one exchange, stalin asks hoxha if he 
eats pork. hoxha replies that he does.   stalin then advises that hoxha tackle 
questions of religious faith with care,   without hurting the feelings of the people. stalin also tells hoxha not to punish 
his own party members too harshly,   advises against open hostility against 
the united states and the united kingdom,   and laughingly tells hoxha to 
preserve life and pursue diplomacy. we don't have records from the 
soviet side about these meetings,   so it's hard to corroborate this admittedly 
strange depiction of stalin. whether or not   hoxha's personal feelings were real, he was 
genuine in his fervor for a stalinist economy. ## going stalinist going stalinist means building a completely 
centrally-planned socialist economy. the government would decide on all 
the aspects of economic decision   making - laid out in grand 5-year plans. 
policy emphasizes the collectivization of   agriculture and the rapid build-up of heavy 
industry at the cost of consumer products. collectivization came more slowly since albania 
did not have that much arable land. but by 1956,   there were 696 collective farms, having 40% 
of the land. though those farms had trouble   finding labor. party officials wrote of having 
to exert "greater force" to get workers to work. in 1951, the albanian government completed 
their transition to a centrally planned   economy with their first 5-year 
plan. this plan set all prices,   production levels, investment 
and wages in the economy. as you might expect, this stalinist-style 
albanian economy created strange contradictions   and shortages. employment was guaranteed, 
but people could not choose their job. if   you didn't achieve your job's goals, 
then you went to the labor camps. the government built massive new textile 
factories like the stalin textile complex.   new stores were stocked with 
clogs, coats, and luxury bags. but there was no food. the newspapers 
declared that all the quotas were being met,   but the people ate less meat in 1953 than they did 
in 1949. and food rationing continued until 1957. ## breaking up with soviets
in 1953, stalin died. in grief, enver hoxha filled tirana's largest 
square with thousands of people and made them   kneel to take an eternal oath to their 
"beloved father" and "great liberator". watched by the secret police, albanians 
rubbed their children's eyes with onions   to show the proper amount of emotion and grief. but stalin's death ushered in nikita khrushchev,   whose new policies grated with hoxha. 
for instance, khrushchev's repudiation   of the stalin cult of personality and 
instituting a model of collective leadership. or his policy of "different paths 
to socialism" - topped off with   a june 1956 reconciliation with marshal tito. as early as october 1954, albania started 
moving towards the other major communist   power beefing with khrushchev - 
the people's republic of china. then in september 1956, hoxha led 
a high-ranking delegation to meet   with mao zedong. after that, the chinese 
began issuing more aid to the albanians,   growing to 21.6% of the 
total trade balance in 1957. as the sino-soviet split widened throughout the 
1950s, albania's own break with the soviets and   closeness to china became untenable. it all boiled 
over in november 1960, when hoxha criticized   khrushchev - in moscow. khrushchev and hoxha 
met four times that month, resolving nothing. a few months later at the albanian 
communist party congress in february 1961,   hoxha launched an economic campaign against 
soviet advice, pledging loyalty only on his   own terms. it was the last time the soviets would 
attend a party congress in albania - they were   quite poorly treated there. infuriated by the 
arrogance of this tiny country, they in april   1961 withdrew their considerable aid - which made 
up 50% of albania's economy from 1946 to 1961. that october 1961 at the soviet 
communist party congress in moscow,   khrushchev called hoxha an 
"unreconstructed stalinist". zhou enlai - who was present - tried to smooth 
things out behind the scenes. but khrushchev   and his cohorts pressed on. the soviets 
insisted on airing all the dirty laundry,   blaming the albanians for spurning all 
previous attempts at reconciliation. in a portion of a speech, khrushchev accused 
hoxha and the albanian police of sabotaging   the soviet-albanian relationship. he bluntly - 
and correctly - stated that hoxha did not want   to extinguish the cult of personality because 
it means giving up their own personal power. > they apparently expect in this manner to 
clear the ground for winning the right to   receive hand-outs from the imperialists. 
the imperialists are always prepared to   pay thirty pieces of silver to those who 
split the communist ranks. but pieces of   silver have never brought anyone 
anything but dishonor and shame the next day, tass issued an official statement 
with the very serious line "now it is no longer   a secret that the albanian leaders rule 
through arbitrary power and violence." stunned, the albanians fired back, 
calling khrushchev a "revisionist" and   an "anti-marxist" - questioning his authority to 
speak for the communist party of the soviet union. then on november 1961, hoxha gave a fiery speech   of his own back home in albania. in it, 
he called khrushchev a "revisionist": > our people have a saying, "the fish rots 
from its head." that's what happened in   the soviet union! revisionism emerged in its 
head ... and spread throughout its whole body hoxha also called khrushchev "defeatist" for his 
policy of "peaceful coexistence" as well as for   backing down on the berlin issue. and of course, 
hoxha denounced de-stalinization again, calling   stalin a true follower of lenin - having never 
compromised in his pursuit of marxist-leninism. and in response to khrushchev's 
barb about pieces of silver,   hoxha made one of his most famous comments: > the albanian people and their party of 
labor will even live on grass if need be,   but they will never sell themselves 
"for 30 pieces of silver" in response the soviet union and their 
aligned states expelled albania from   the warsaw pact and comecon - leaving china 
as their only significant ally. khrushchev   summed up his whole feelings on the matter 
with his earlier remarks to the chinese: > "it is true that we lost albania, 
but what you've won is nothing much." ## adjusting post-soviet china attempted to replace soviet aid to albania 
- sending their own technicians and advisors. and the albanians received them favorably. the 
chinese were less strict about loan interest   and repayment. and their workers took 
the same salaries as average albanians. china - then also isolated - considered albania 
one of its staunch allies. in november 1966,   mao zedong called albania, "the only beacon of 
true socialism left in europe" and promised: > an attack on albania will have to reckon with 
great peoples of china. if the us imperialists,   the modern soviet revisionists or any of their 
lackeys dare to touch albania in the slightest,   nothing lies ahead for them but a 
complete, shameful and memorable defeat but the people's republic of china 
was themselves a developing country,   struggling through one of 
the worst famines in history. moreover, china is geographically quite 
far away from albania - which caused   delays. once it took a year and a half 
to deliver machinery for a textile plant. thus chinese aid struggled to replace what was 
lost from the soviets, making the time of the   third five-year plan, 1961 to 1965, some of the 
most challenging in communist albania's history. in order to maintain his grip on power, 
hoxha tightened his surveillance state   apparatus, the sigurimi. he also ramped 
up his own cult of personality. every   photograph of him was scrutinized with 
him immaculately combed and smiling. ## breaking up with china as you might expect, the chinese love 
affair did not last for very long. in 1969, china began making its famous, 
world-changing overtures to the west. this started   to drive a wedge between itself and albania, which 
valued its position as china's only "real" ally. when the us president nixon announced his 
trip to china in july 1971, the news fell   upon the albanians like a bombshell. at 
the same time, the chinese apparently   told the albanians behind the scenes that they 
should not expect aid to continue indefinitely. in response, hoxha and the albanian 
party sent a formal message,   calling nixon a frenzied anti-communist and any 
meeting with him would be revisionist. in 1976,   he purged high-ranking members of his 
army and party for pro-chinese leanings. mao died that same year. then in 1977, the hated 
tito was invited to beijing for a meeting. albania   considered this an embarrassing loss of face 
and ramped up their rhetorical attacks on china,   calling them a collaborator and no different 
from the soviet union or yugoslavia. deng xiaoping is not the type to mess around. 
in july 1978, the people's republic of china   announced that it would cut off all aid to 
albania, then worth half of the country's economy. ## self-reliance
when the shortages intensified in the mid-1960s, the party increasingly focused 
on the concept of self-reliance. self-reliance is a fundamental concept 
in stalinist economies - and the soviet   union itself practiced it in its 
early years. but albania's unique   situation caused it to push this 
particular value above all others. after the severing of ties with china,   the albanian government told its people that 
they were special; and that the imperialist   foreign powers were trying to exploit them 
- "economic blockades and encirclement". and so hoxha will cut them off. he declared his 
country as the only one left in the world still   building socialism - revamping the constitution in 
1976 to enshrine the principle of self-reliance. for the next 12 years, the country 
would go it alone - no foreign aid   or credit. nor can albanian companies do 
joint ventures with foreign countries. hoxha would receive unlimited power 
in pursuit of these goals. his cult of   personality ramped to even higher levels 
- calling him the father of the nation,   a second skenderbeu. religion was banned and 
people were forbidden from traveling abroad. ## economic isolation implementing this policy had 
several notable points of emphasis. first, albania ramped up their exports 
to acquire hard currency to buy needed   investment goods from abroad. their economy 
is largely based on four major goods - oil,   chrome ore or chromite, copper, and electricity. to sell these goods, albania diversified 
its roster of trade partners - including a   semi-relaxation of relations with yugoslavia 
and comecon, excluding the soviet union. second, the country locked down on all available   economic data. the central committee 
still received data. if it was good,   then they released it. otherwise, it was 
carefully controlled as a state secret. third, the country needed to be self-sufficient in 
food production. the albanians drained the swamps   to expand the arable land area - going from 
391,000 hectares in 1950 to 713,000 in 1985. in 1976, albania declared that 
it had achieved self-sufficiency   in bread grain - perhaps the policy's greatest 
achievement, if statistics are to be believed. all this took place near the end of 
hoxha's life. hoxha was a longtime   smoker and a diabetic. in 1972 and 1973 
he suffered a pair of heart attacks,   which caused him to dial back 
some of his political activities. in 1980, he chose ramiz alia as 
his successor, purging and possibly   executing his own long-time partner - the 
prime minister mehmet shehu - in doing so. over the next two years, alia gained 
more decision-making power as hoxha   receded into a lonely semi-retirement - 
largely toeing the party line of hoxha's   self-enforced economic isolation. in 1983, 
an aged and frail hoxha declared victory: > we have entered the third year of the 
7th five-year plan. the results achieved   during the first two years (1981-1982) 
regarding the increase of the social   product and national income are among the 
greatest ever achieved in the last decade hoxha spent the rest of his years in a gilded 
cage. he wrote 13 fanciful memoirs talking up   his achievements and romanticizing his 
youthful years, and took walks with his   grandchildren - in total ignorance of the 
economic disaster developing around him. in his last years, he was barely there - mostly 
sitting with his head down. in april 1985,   he collapsed into a coma and died soon after   without saying a word. the party's grip 
on power would not survive much longer. ## stagnation at first, the economic numbers 
seemed to back hoxha's declaration. in 1983, the cia world fact book reported 
that albania had exported about $10 million   more than it imported. the state budget 
also showed a slight surplus. and the   country had no foreign debt at all, 
which was unique for eastern europe. it was right about that time though that 
the country fell into a deep and prolonged   economic stagnation. we have little data on 
this period, but what we do have is rough. throughout the 1980s, albania's economy 
grew at an average of 1.7% - zeroed out   during the second half of the decade. the 
country's annual population growth rate   through the same period was 2%, so the average 
albanian got poorer throughout the decade. the immediate cause for this was 
a large drought that lasted five   years from 1983 to 1988, afflicting 
the country's agricultural output and   hydropower generation. albania needed 
the electricity not only for export,   but also for chromite mining. so 
the drought was a triple whammy. at the same time, there was a 
massive oil glut in the world   that crashed petro-prices and hurt one of the 
country's other major economic pillars - oil. oil production numbers most demonstrated 
albania's backwardness. the five-year plan   called for the extraction of 3 million tons of oil 
in 1985. the likely actual number was 1.2 million. the equipment from the soviets 
and chinese was already obsolete,   now it is also broken. per self-reliance, 
engineers tried to rebuild the machinery on   their own - spending far more than it would have 
cost than to simply buy new stuff from abroad. the people suffered. a family, no matter 
the size, was rationed 1 kilogram of meat,   250 grams of butter, and 7 eggs each week. 
the average monthly wage in 1984 was $15,   and people could not even keep 
their own cows, sheep, or chickens. even in the capital city of tirana - the 
richest city in the country - water and   electricity were only available 
for a few hours each day. four to   ten people at a time lived in a single 
50 square meter flat. the son of one of   the first western politicians - from 
germany - to visit in 1984 recalled: > at night, the town was in total darkness. 
there were no cars. we saw only a few trucks,   most of them broken down. some people were trying 
to repair them ... the roads were in a sorry state > we went to a place where they had an exhibition 
of albanian technology. when we entered, we saw an   enver hoxha tractor. our friend from mercedes-benz 
had a look at it and said, 'yes, yes. we used   to make these back in 1920.' the technology 
on display there was indeed from the 1920s. anyone who tried to leave was shot on 
sight. jamming devices were installed   at the borders to prevent foreign 
influence. and the border itself   was laced with barbed wire and 64% of the 
coasts were designated as military zones. in 45 years, some 1,200 people were 
killed trying to escape the country,   almost all of whom were under 30 years old. ## the fall self-reliance in albania had only 
caused economic stagnation and decay. and even the party can see it. thus, 
after hoxha's death, alia sought to   introduce gradual change to the economy - slowly 
backing away from the self-reliance philosophy. in 1986, he made quiet outreaches to the west,   establishing diplomatic relations with west 
germany, spain and canada. he reduced the   number of offenses deserving the death 
penalty and relaxed travel restrictions. but that was not enough. small reforms 
lead to a call for more. the vaunted   secret police had started to lose its 
grip over the people. and by 1989,   the communist governments of eastern 
europe had started to wobble and collapse. on july 1990, thousands of people occupied 
western embassies and refused to leave.   many braved crossing the mountains into greece, 
montenegro and italy - though many were returned. massive protests erupted in the capital city. law   and order broke down and violence broke 
out on the streets. hundreds of schools,   hospitals, and collective farms were looted 
- causing further damage to the economy. industrial output in the 3rd quarter 1991 was 
60% lower than in the previous year. alia made   a weak final attempt to hold onto power with more 
reforms. these failed, and alia - to his infinite   credit, and i really mean that - did not shoot the 
protestors and instead called for free elections. the people tore down hoxha's statues 
and demanded his name be erased from   the buildings and universities. and in 
march 1992, the democratic party won power. ## conclusion albania's struggle for self-reliance 
in a globalized world tells a tale. the country was blessed with natural resources 
and a strategic position between east and west.   they really could have played both 
sides and gotten the best out of it. yet multiple times, they turned 
away from all of that. finally   descending into a fanciful pursuit 
of total economic "self reliance"   that led the country down a pathway 
of anti-development and into madness. after 1992, albania underwent 
one of the fastest transitions to   capitalism. but today there remains still 
a profound need for more economic reform.