- hello my friends and welcome
to a momentous occasion because today we are going to
be building the ultimate ps5. so this, what do they call it? the black plates, skid plates. so this is a shell
replacement for the ps5. so this comes courtesy
of our friends dbrand who are not sponsoring this video, but were very kind to hook
us up with the shell early. and essentially it allows you with one simple installation to turn your ps5 black. these are, how should i say it? not cheap, and likely will be sold out by the time that you're
watching this video, although, of course, i will have a link in the description. but the installation should
be fairly straightforward. i am clearly an expert
at disassembling the ps5. (austin laughing) there we go. so now we have our naked ps5. now, normally this would be the point where you install your
dbrand shells of doom, and that's it, you have yourself a black ps5. however, do you think
that that's the only thing we're doing in this video? we have so many more
ridiculously stupid things to do to this playstation 5. oh look, an ssd that won't work. so one of the nice
things about playstations dating all the way back
to the playstation 2 is that you can expand
the internal storage. so with the plate removed, you can see right here, we have access to an ssd caddy. there are officially no ssds
that will actually work, and that is because the
ps5 is currently waiting on a firmware update to support it. however, as you can see, the hardware is all here for
you to install an m.2 ssd to expand the storage of your ps5. because, let's not forget, there's only 825 gigs of space on a standard ps5, and even less when you consider the fact that there's an operating system and astro's playroom and
everything pre-installed. there is exactly one ssd
which is fast enough, and, at least according to wd, it meets the certification. unfortunately, i can't really test that because my ps5 doesn't
have the firmware update, but by the time you're
watching this video in 2022, i'm sure it'll work just fine. so you'll see there are a
few different slots here for the screws. so there's 30, 42, 60, 80 and 110. this is for different sizes of m.2 ssds. traditionally, 80 is the most common size, so what i'm gonna do is i'm gonna unscrew the 110 slot and just put that in the 80 slot once we're ready to install. so it should be just as simple as slotting with those gold contacts facing up. you slot it into the peg on the bottom, and then, with our screw, boom, there we go an extra two terabytes
of capacity on our ps5. could i show you how this works? nope, because, again, this is not functioning at the moment. you can install a usb 3.0 hard drive, for example, you can
plug it into the back, but the problem is it'll
work fine for ps4 games, it actually does not work for ps5 games. you really do need that
high-speed ssd storage for that to properly work. did you just give me an xbox drive? this is illegal. you know you can't plug
an xbox branded drive into a playstation, right? - [ken] i mean, that's
just a normal hard drive. - just imagine this is eight terabytes. like you can imagine
that this is a good video worthy of subscribing and wring-a-linging the ding-a-ling bell for notifications about
this high quality content. and so, with that, we've got ourselves one
stealthy looking ps5 and some tape. are you giving me electronic tape? they send us yellow? ew, we gotta do oreo, right? - do you wanna do oreo? - of course we've gotta do oreo. we're gonna go complete reverse colorway where we've got the crunchy
cookies on the outside and the creamy cream in the inside. something like this. i'm just gonna let you
in on a little secret. it might be a surprise to find out that i am not good at
putting on skins, right? i rock dbrand skins on my z flip, again, this is not an ad, this is something i use everyday. i don't put this on, my wife is really good at putting it on, but she spends a lot of time, she brings up the hairdryer. i slap skins on, they look bad, i'm like, "i don't know
why it doesn't look good." - [ken] do you want me to do it? - yes, that's what i was
actually trying to get, yeah, can you please do it for me? - [ken] okay. - cool, thanks. - i subscribed to the mkbhd mentality of matte black forever. - [austin] you're wearing a yellow hoodie. - oh, look at that. wow, i didn't even have to try that hard. the main reasons why you would want to skin
this glossy piano black plastic is not only because it attracts
dust and scratches a lot, but it just looks ugly. yeah, i'll buy that. oh dude, that is so cool. with the controller too, oh dude, that is a way
better combo than the stock. - luckily, you can watch
your friends austin and ken make a playstation 5 look cool
and then immediately ruin it. (people laughing) oh-ho, look at that, our great looking ps5
that we're about to ruin with silly accessories like a cooling fan for ps5 de slash uhd. - [ken] what? - every single time we've
done a building the ultimate, we have bought some
stupid cooling accessory. now, i will say, after spending some time with the ps5, it is certainly better than the ps4 was, but it does get loud. this has an actually
slightly different design than i would expect. - [ken] wait, is that one
actually just usb power. - it actually just clips in. - [ken] what? - boom, there we go, we now have a super cool ps5. now, it does have a usb 3.0 pass through, so theoretically you actually
don't lose that usb port. you still have the same usb port, it's just using it for power, and then you have a little switch here to turn it on and off. oh, what is that? what is that? is that? so just as i was saying how traditionally cooling
stands are terrible and useless, this looks extra terrible and useless. this looks like it
actually has a little hook for your headphones. is it gonna just push air in through the bottom of the console? that's not gonna do anything, that's not gonna do anything. for game fans, feel the new play. so they have the little dongles inside, and essentially what this
is is usb-c on one end, so you connect it to your controller, and then it's magnetic on the other side. so theoretically, i can
just drop it in like this and it will charge. all right, well, we're making progress. we're making progress. it's looking a whole lot more ultimate as far as i'm concerned. - [ken] so we can put more things on it. - oh, that's a great idea. okay, so instead of putting
your actual audio headset, you can put ps vr, provided that you've talked to sony and asked for the dongle to make this work with the ps5, that we definitely did, that we're just not gonna conveniently show
on the video (laughs). - [ken] yeah, well, we'll
play ps vr off-camera. - aren't you so happy you've
subscribed to the channel for nonsense like this. i know, i'm really happy that
i'm still here years later, making more ultimate
playstations (laughs). can you see the look of
happiness on my face right now? i'm so, so, so happy on the inside. decoration accessory for p5. oh, these are like the
little shell replacements. do you have to take apart
another ps5 controller? can i call logic again? - [ken] no. - so you can see that essentially we're gonna
replace this black shell here, and instead we're gonna have a red shell. so they did give you a little
guitar pick to do this with. i actually prefer to use
a little ifixit spudger. all right, we got it. and then theoretically this red one should just slot right in, ayyy, look at that. but we also have a blue, yeah, which i think might
look a little bit better on the other controller. oh ho! now, you may be asking
yourself a simple question. why, when i clicked on
the ultimate ps5 video, do we have a digital edition? is it because i'm about to make my clickbait ps10 video right now? next time, but no, not right now. instead, we have a slightly
more nefarious idea to take this even more over the top. so here we have a standard,
stock, completely unmodified playstation 5 digital edition. now, if you've ever seen
one of these before, you'll know that it's
essentially the same thing as a traditional ps5. the only thing it's really
missing is the disc drive. however, because it is
missing the disc drive, it actually has a
slightly different shape. personally, one that i actually
think that looks better, but, well, it gave us an idea. so when you put the digital
edition beside the standard ps5, what you'll see is that the shell here
is symmetrical, right? because you don't have that hump for where the optical disc drive goes like you do here, which personally i feel like always looks a little bit weird. however, so you'll see when
you compare the shells, well, they look similar, one is much thinner than the other, which gave us an idea. what happens if you put the
shell from a standard ps5 on a digital? besides fooling your friends into thinking that you have a cooler ps5. now, from the outside, this now looks exactly
like a standard ps5. what this now gives us is
some room inside the chassis. now, there are many useful and
practical things you can do with the extra space that
we now have right in here. we're gonna do none of those, and instead we're gonna
put a nintendo switch inside our ps5. yeah, that's really the plan right now. so we're gonna be destroy, i mean, modifying the dbrand
shell for this to happen, but i can show you what it looks
like on the standard shell. so if i take a switch and
i just remove the joy-cons, what you'll see is that it is almost a
perfect fit right here. so you'll see that once
we actually put this on, actually it'll just slide right in, and we will have, a switch inside our ps5. now, the only problem with this is that i can't see the switch, but it's in there. if only i had some cutting implements to open up a hole in the side of my ps5 so i could see my switch. not sure who thought giving
me a dremel was a good idea, but let's give this a try. all right, think i should
start in the middle or should i start on the edge? (tool spinning) okay, so we wanna go a
little faster than that. this is some thick plastic
from the robots at dbrand. all right, think we are pretty close here. oh, look at that. there we go. doesn't it look beautiful? isn't it a perfectly cut hole that we definitely had no problems getting it eloquently cut. we have sandpaper, right? - [ken] yes. - okay, we're gonna need a lot of that. we'll be right back after
this message from our sponsor, youtube adsense. it might not be pretty, but this should work now if our measurements have been correct. so we'll take the other
side panel out of the way, and you can see, once we actually just
spent a little time sanding and kind of cleaning it up, it's not terrible. it's certainly not quite straight. it bent a little bit, you know, these things happen, but i think there's nothing else for it. let's just put the switch in
and see if it actually fits. how much is it going to suck right now if the switch falls through this hole. now, i'm gonna do a little test fit here. i imagine we'll probably wanna
use some tape or something to actually hold it in
place for the final fit, but let's just see if it actually works. i'm going to place the
switch in the shell. actually, i guess that's
my first test fit. oh, that looks terrible (laughs). well, okay, so we may have
miscalculated on the bottom. there seems to be a little daylight there, but ah, it's not so bad, okay, well. it's not permanent, i will have you know, we can easily take the switch out when we come to our senses. hey, hey, hey, we have a switch inside our ps5, it works. is it the prettiest thing in the world? no, but is that a switch
that if i could turn it on, if i had remembered to turn it on before i put in the ps5, it works. now let me put on all
the other ultimate stuff and let's actually see what happens when you fire up the ultimate
ps5 slash ultimate switch and play fortnite, is that what we're doing (laughs)? and so, let us see if the
ultimate ps5 is still alive. oh, yo, the blue against
the sort of black shell actually looks really cool. hopefully this actually is
all gonna turn on for me. oh, look at this, a module is inserted
in the expansion slot. turn off your ps5, remove the module and
turn the ps5 back on. i guess because we had the ssd installed, it won't straight up even boot. oh, okay. well, once the firmware
update comes out, it'll work, but i guess we have not built ourselves the ultimate ps5 yet. didn't like that, did it? okay, so it does show the ps4 drive. now, if i format it, it will just nuke everything on it. and so, we can now install
two terabytes of ps4 games on our xbox drive. now, the next thing i would do is actually plug in our
dock and see what happens. okay, so our green lights are on, so it's charging. oh yeah, it's charging one controller. if i drop in the other controller, controllers charge. is the fan on? and so we have the little fans
running on the bottom, okay. now let's fire up the rear fans. whoa, that's loud. so now we have five
additional fans on our ps5. wow, how useful this is. it's so quiet, i can barely hear it. why do you want your ps5 to be this loud? where's this heat even coming from? - i don't know what difference
it can make to the ps5 because there's no vent on the bottom. - there is a slight little
bit of venting on the bottom. - i mean, a little bit, but not where these fans are. i think i would allow my
ps5 to suffer in the heat before having to deal with
how loud these fans are. - well, i think now we really just need to get into the switch because you've already got
fortnite loaded on here, right? - yes. - all right. let's go head to head, 1v1 me bro. it is time for the
ultimate ps5 switch showdown. on one side, i have myself the ultimate ps5, and on the little side, ken's playing on the switch. i mean (coughs) our secondary
playstation compute unit featuring nintendo. - this is the screen that
your little brother plays on. you enlisted me to do this, even though i have really never
played fortnite in my life. - you've played more fortnite than i have. - that is an absolute lie. so the funny thing about this is the interface for fortnite
on the switch is so tiny and we didn't leave enough
room on the top of the switch to see where my menus
are with how i cut this. so i have to actually lean
in here and figure that out. - wait, where are we dropping? where are we dropping? - i don't know, you play this game more than i do. - all right, all right, shall we just not engage? oh god, oh, we're top eight. oh, oh, wait, wait, is that the last person, last person. we're gonna win, get them, get them, it's just us versus them! ken, we can do this, we can do this! we just did it, we just won a game of fortnite!!! oh, we just won!!! i have never won a game
of fortnite in my life and we just did it together with the power of the
ultimate ps5 on our first try. thank you very much for
watching this episode, make sure to subscribe and
ring-a-ling the ding-a-ling bell for other sweet fortnite
montages like this (laughs). we did it. - [ken] that was great. - the power of friendship. (upbeat music)