what the hell is this? it's my tv, except it's got a different model number. it comes with a stand this time, and i don't have to give my phone number to the ccp to turn it on. come on, man. in all seriousness, it's coming to north america q3, q4, which is a great thing because it's absolutely gorgeous and [music] hallelujah [music] [music] hallelujah [music] so this is what buyer's remorse feels like. i've only had my tv for like three weeks, and now hisense goes and announces the new 110ux, a drop-dead gorgeous giant format tv that has twice the advertised peak brightness, 10,000 nits, and twice the number of local dimming zones, 40,000 zones. i mean, okay, it's five diagonal inches smaller, which my wife says is a lot, but good lord, does it ever do a lot with what it's got. the big highlight for me is the contrast. when hisense abandoned their efforts to bring their dual-cell technology to the consumer market, i was honestly concerned for their future competitiveness. oled was riding high, and it seemed like many led tvs would forever suffer from blooming and light bleed between the brightest and darkest parts of the scene. but on this set, the on-paper size of each of these dimming zones is somewhere between a quarter and half an inch. in practice, the veiling glare in the human eye is gonna be your limitation, not the contrast of the tv. what's not a limitation for me is my ability to segue to our sponsor. headphone juice is not something you should be proud of. these are your typical headphones that accumulate heat while you game. ew. wicked cushions add a cooling gel to their cushions to keep your ears sweat-free. you can easily replace them on your headset. check out wicked cushions at the link below. even getting up close, guys, and masking off a bright object, i can barely make out any bleed. it's, crap. i think it might actually be better than the tcl i just bought, which is really impressive, because that thing also has 20,000 dimming zones. now, i would hesitate to say that it's as good as an oled. i mean, surely, nothing can match the blackness of powered off. but i will say, good lord, is it ever close. i mean, of course, we're gonna need the labs team to put it through the paces properly before i can say anything for sure. but what i can speak to today is the brightness. considering that this event exists almost entirely, so that every vendor in the world can show off their brightest tv to people who care about that, it's kinda hard to stand out. but even under the worst possible conditions, there is no word for this but dazzling. give me something bright. oh. now, i'll be the first to say that some of the previous stuffness wars, your thinness, your bezel-lessness, and even your high resolution-ness got kinda silly. i mean, 8k is at, or maybe even already beyond the limit of what's useful for a tv. but i don't feel the same way about the current brightness war. with the right content, more nit is more better, at least for now, because it contributes not only to the natural appearance of highlights, like sun glinting off of shiny objects, but it also contributes to the volume of colors that a display can achieve. on that note, hisense is claiming 90% coverage of the rec 2020 color space, which is on par with samsung's claims about their latest generation qd oleds, which, frankly, blew my socks off when i saw them in person. in both cases, this is thanks to recent advancements in quantum dot color enhancement layers that now have us at just around 69% of the range of human vision, which i think we can all agree is pretty nice. i just thought it would take a lot longer to get here. this set features a native 144 hertz refresh rate, 4.2.2 audio, wi-fi 6e, an ats-c 3.0 tuner, and hisense is even hoping for power consumption that is similar to their 85-inch model, though they did specify that they are not willing to compromise on brightness in order to achieve that, so they weren't willing to quote a figure at this time. and that's far from the only information missing from the show floor here. that's the only sign they have for this thing. hisense is not quoting supported hdr standards, average pixel response times, input latency, or even a price, but if it ends up anywhere near the same neighborhood as the tcl 100 15-inch, i can imagine a lot of dentists, doctors, or other professionals struggling to load one of these into their cybertruck in the best buy parking lot. if you want some help visualizing that, we've got extras from the tcl unboxing at lmg.gg slash floatplane. we'll have that link down below. of course, by the time you're spending that kind of money, i could understand the temptation to spring for the original gangster. that's right, the samsung the wall is getting an update for 2024 and is now available in five different sizes, 76 inches, 89 inches, 101 inches, 114 inches, and of course, the monster behind me, the 140-inch version. now, this is very unfortunate. samsung has basically no information about this thing whatsoever. so i can only tell you based on my eyeballs that the color gamut does look bigger than what we saw last time around, and in particular, the brightness looks much brighter than the thousandth-peak brightness that we saw on the last generation. of course, in order for us to tell you for sure, we're gonna have to, you know, get our hands on one for testing. samsung, if you're watching, we'd love to check that out. but one thing i'm sure they're not gonna be sending to us is this. i just have no words for their micro-led transparent display. now, we've seen transparent displays before, particularly oleds, but the difference here is that micro-led pixels are so, so tiny. that's a big part of what gives them their pitch-deep blacks. and because they're so small, they don't get in the way. so not only is it vividly bright in a way i haven't seen before, but it's transparent in a way that i haven't seen before. like, it looks like a window, except there's a screen on it. i don't even know how we would test something like this. so yeah, not even gonna worry about that. what i will worry about is this message from our sponsor. are your headphones cushions hot like a tiny steam room? stop steaming your ears like you're broccoli. wicked cushions offer all sorts of cushion replacement for your headphones. and it's not just your regular cushions. with added dual-layer cooling gel, they ensure you keep a cool head even your team is feeding. looking for a crack? wicked cushion gives you a crack-free comfort. they use top-notch materials like breathable sport fabric and memory foam. with over 25,000 reviews and a 365 days to fall in love warranty, don't listen to me, listen to your ears this time. check out wicked cushions at the link below. if you guys enjoyed this video, maybe check out the one we did on samsung's qd oled gaming monitors. the new 2024 lineup looks amazing.