for the past three weeks i have been 
traveling through japan and the united states. this trip has been part sight-seeing 
and part learning tour with the goal   of understanding more about the ai and 
ai chip boom landscape outside of taiwan. now that i am finished with the big conversations, 
i wanted to sit down and share a few thoughts. ## the trillion there's been a lot of news about a 
chip venture thing that sam altman   of openai is working on for the ai industry. the news came slowly. first there was 
the report - released at around the   time he was temporarily ousted from 
openai - that he was raising money   from middle east investors for some chip 
venture. back then it was just "billions". since then, you have also gotten news that 
sam altman and his team have talked to tsmc,   people at abu dhabi, and the us government. just as i was leaving tokyo for san 
francisco, the wsj broke the report with   that eye catching $1-7 trillion figure that 
has got everyone buzzing. it was one of the   first things that i started asking people 
about when i arrived in silicon valley. many people agreed with me that the 
number is a bit too much. perhaps   it can be a negotiating tactic to set 
expectations for future talks. once you   start talking trillions then hundreds of 
billions no longer feels as substantial. then you have the information adding a bit 
of context to altman's remarks, saying: > but in reality, altman privately has told 
people that figure represents the sum total of   investments that participants ... would need 
to make, in everything from real estate and   power for data centers to the manufacturing 
of the chips, over some period of years. the ecosystem concept makes a lot more sense. 
total semiconductor sales in 2023 were about $520   billion. total capital expenditures - according 
to the trade group semi - were about $140 billion. but even if we were to assume that this 
trillion is spread out over five years   and diluted with real estate expenses and power,   that is still another covid-like step 
function upwards in capital expenditure. the semiconductor industry is a conservative 
one. many of the people there are old-heads   who have seen many a cycle of booms and busts 
downstream. sam isn't really the first guy to   knock on a foundry's door saying that his 
use case is going to change the world. ## scaling laws the concept driving this investment is 
something called the "scaling laws". the name dates to a 2020 paper 
posted by openai titled "scaling   laws for neural language models". i am 
not going to go over the fine details,   but the gist is that if we combine more data and 
compute, we get better results (i.e. less loss). this was one of the core ideas that 
helped openai make the gpt-series a   reality. ilya sutskever, one 
of the company's cofounders,   mentioned something like this in an appearance 
on the no priors podcast back in november: > i was very fortunate in that i was able to 
realize that the reason neural networks of   the time weren't good is because they are too 
small. so like if you tried to solve a vision   task with a neural network with a thousand 
neurons, what can it do? it can't do anything. > it doesn't matter how good your 
learning is and anything else.   but if you have a much larger network 
then it can do something unprecedented. gpt-3 is big. gpt-4 was even bigger, performing 
far better. and gpt-5, whenever it comes out, will   be even bigger. so far there are no indications 
that the scaling laws have broken apart. i find the parallels with the semiconductor   industry's moore's law very interesting. 
the two "laws" do not say the same thing,   but they might have similar effects 
on their respective industries. in the 1980s and 1990s, moore's law became 
the rallying cry of the entire semiconductor   industry - the metronome keeping time for every 
company from santa clara to tokyo to hsinchu. there is a chance that the scaling laws can make 
a similar impact on the ai industry. a simple set   of easily understandable rallying cries that 
drive r&d roadmaps for whatever years to come. there are a variety of arguments against 
the scaling laws. for instance, people have   commented that we have basically pulled all the 
existing data across the entirety of the internet. but there are ways around such things, if the 
money is there to make it happen. physics problems   have cropped up ahead of moore's law, and the 
industry derived new engineering solutions:   the high-k metal gate, finfet, duv lithography, 
dry etch, ion implantation, sem, and so on. the bigger question is whether 
the money is there to continue   driving this investment. more on that later. for a way deeper review of the 
technical issues behind scaling,   i recommend dwarkesh patel's post - "will scaling 
work?" his podcast is quite excellent too. ## ai chips & nvidia where there are profits, there are competitors 
coming out with ideas to take them. there has been a lot of ink spilled on nvidia 
and their competition - particularly the   multi-pronged attack on nvidia's ai accelerator 
profits. i don't want to add too much to this. i do question whether the nvidia fortress is going   to be as assailable as it might at first 
seem. jensen is responding to the threat   by aggressively ramping up the annual 
updates to their accelerator lineup. for more information on this, i refer you to   the report from semianalysis. it goes 
into much more detail. dylan's great. but this relentless pace reminds me of the? days 
of old nvidia during the graphics cards wars,   when nvidia released a new product 
every six months to the market. it   worked for them then. why not try 
it again now for the ai chip wars? nvidia can maintain this rollout 
speed because - as jensen implied   during his appearance at the acquired 
podcast - they ship before they test. they use the latest computer software 
design and emulation tools to model   and ship new gpu designs to the market 
without first fabbing a physical chip: > the reason why we needed that emulator is 
because if you figure out how much money that   we have, if we taped out a chip and we got 
it back from the fab and we started working   on our software, by the time that we found 
all the bugs because we did the software,   then we taped out the chip again. we 
would've been out of business already. the nvidia teams will try to tape 
out "perfect chips" as huang said,   but this inevitably will cause problems 
for customers. for instance, deployments   with drivers and other affiliated software 
that won't work all that well at first. but the nvidia brand can take a hit like that,   whereas it is unlikely that the ai chip 
startups will be able to. it takes several   years to build a team and then get that 
team good enough to ship a working product. this high speed of iteration will be rough 
on customers. many have no choice but to buy   what is available, but it stings to spend 
tens of thousands of dollars on a machine,   only to have a vastly better one 
coming out just a short time later. ## giants and verticalization
nvidia is less concerned about the startups and even the established silicon players 
than they are about the tech giants. the tech giants - microsoft, google, and the like 
- are the ones driving the current investment   spend in ai today. they are also the ones with the 
most incentive to cut nvidia out of their margin. they would do this using custom-designed 
chips or asics. large companies have   sought these since the good old days of 
the computer - commissioning an asic to   replace an entire board of discrete 
electronic components to save money. an example of this would be the apple iie,   a third-generation version of the 
apple ii pc powered by a custom asic. a more modern example would be the google tpu, 
which right now is in its fourth iteration. it makes up a big part of google's compute 
advantage over openai and the other ai labs. microsoft seems to be the giant pushing hardest 
on vertical integration. ceo satya nadella said   in the q2 2024 earnings call that most of 
the usage in azure ai services is coming from   inference rather than training. those activities 
are easier to push to a custom-designed asic. in addition, microsoft has been working 
on vertically integrating other parts   of the database stack. for instance, 
the information's recent report that   they are working on a network card 
to shuttle data between servers. this type of vertical integration implies either 
that the scale of the ai database stack is so   large and costly that every penny counts/will 
count. or that the growth in the industry has   petered out, leaving players to compete on price. 
these scenarios both feel weird to consider. what does this vertical integration trend 
mean for nvidia? it will take some time   for the other tech giants to ramp up their ai 
chip designs. apparently the first google tpu   was a very bare-bones product. so in the 
short term, things will be as they are. but as those chips get better in the medium 
to long term, it makes sense that nvidia   push as hard as they can to always win 
the performance-cost crown. who knows. ## financially sustainable? i want to move away from cost. i think the cost 
benefits of vertical integration are significant   enough to matter. now, i want to move to 
the other side of the financial equation. one of the really big questions that i wanted to 
answer coming to the united states was to learn   more about whether or not this openai 
boom is real. real, with a capital r. there has been so much progress in the ai 
industry in the past year. for instance, the   openai text to video sora model. the improvement 
in the models' output quality has been impressive. but even if the technology is amazing, it does 
not seem like a hit product by itself. we need   to embed them into compelling products. are 
there indications of such products breaking   through into the public? who is making 
money from actual consumers with them? the massive investments required by moore's 
law and the semiconductor industry were   driven by real demand from various downstream 
industries. first the military, then consumer   electronics like radios and calculators, then 
the pc, smartphones, and then cloud computing. these were all things that 
ordinary people wanted. to me,   it feels unlikely that the truly 
large investments in ai will happen   unless those ordinary consumers start 
buying these services in a major way. the financial times did report that chatgpt hit a   $2 billion run-rate revenue in december 
2023. that is basically the only solid   piece of news indicating that people are 
paying real money for an llm service. now, we should note that it is still early in the   generative ai boom. chatgpt 
is a little over a year old. but i also want to note that the 
iphone was first released in june 2007. about two years later in 2009,   apple sold 20 million iphones for like 
$13 billion in revenue. growth continued,   with 40 million iphones sold the year after that, 
and then 72 million and 125 million after that. okay fine, the iphone is the 
greatest consumer technology   product that history has ever seen. it 
is a difficult example to live up to. chatgpt is still one of the fastest 
growing consumer tech products in history,   depending on what you think about 
threads. and people are still   using it a lot - altman recently said that 
chatgpt generates 100 billion words a day. and facebook took a while to produce revenue 
- at first investing to build up the audience.   perhaps chatgpt is doing the same aggregator 
approach, gathering users to monetize later.   but few products cost as much to use. ai 
probably has shorter a leash than we think. other than chatgpt, the one product 
that everyone in the industry seems   to have their eye on is the microsoft 
copilot subscription service. we want   to see if this $20 a month offering 
catches on with people and enterprises. if it does, then we are really off to the races 
... the sky really is the limit ... we are so back   ... and so on, insert bombastic metaphor here. if 
not, then we have to adjust some mental models. ## conclusion there is one last thing that i 
should mention. maybe where the   llm revolution will be most real is when it 
is embedded into the products we know today. for instance, a few people i spoke 
to insisted that i am overlooking the   impact that ai automation will have 
in supercharging advertising sales. like google's performance max ads, which 
use ai to automate the creation, deployment,   and targeting of new ads. ads like performance max 
apparently generate tens of billions of dollars. or how when apple disabled cookie tracking in 
2021 with the app tracking transparency thing.   meta/facebook at first said that this would 
cost the company over $10 billion in sales. but over time, meta somehow managed to claw 
back its targeting accuracies using ai,   collecting data from its conversions api. so maybe the killer app for ai is just more ads. but ben thompson and others have been saying for a   while that ai is an enabling technology - 
a technology for making the rich richer,   rather than making a whole new class of rich 
people like the pc or electrification was. so for me, if this is all that it is,   then it is a bit disappointing. but it 
makes the ai boom nevertheless real. anyway, these are my reflections from my trip to 
the united states. i hope to make more frequent   trips in the future and have more interesting 
conversations with people in the space. if you are interested in having a chat,   shoot me an email. maybe i will be coming to 
town again and can have that chat in person.