- this is the lg gram style, and it is an update to one of my favorite laptops of all time. when i first saw this at ces,
it was love at first sight. so when lg asked if they could a sponsor
video on the gram style, it was the easiest yes i have ever given. thankfully, this is actually
going on sale in the us. when i was talking with them at ces, it sounded like this was not
actually going to make it. and to me, it would have been so sad because this is not only one
of the best-looking laptops i've seen in many, many years, but one of the things
that's really surprised me after spending some time with it is just how good it feels to actually use. getting carried away. why don't i tell you a
little bit about the laptop before you hear my confession of undying love for it. (laughs) welcome to my office. so i've been using the lg gram
style for a little while now, and there are a few things that
have really stood out to me. let's face it, there are a lot of high-quality
laptops to choose from. good screens, great
specs, solid battery life. i mean, you can kind of expect that on almost any device in
the premium category, which is, in my opinion, i
think why lg are pretty smart to have expanded the 2023 lineup. so in addition to the
style which i have here, there's also the gram basic, which is very much similar
to the earlier models, especially if you want a
little bit more performance. i'll talk about that in a second. to me, it's like for the most part, if you're going out to buy a laptop, odds are, since they're all so good now, you're probably just gonna buy the brand that you had last time, right? you've had a good experience,
you want one more, it's gonna be a little bit
faster, yada, yada, yada. but in my opinion, and especially
where i am in tech now, i want more than just a little bit better. i don't want just a little
bit more performance, a little bit more battery life. like i want a device that
actually makes me feel something. it's one thing to be competent,
it's one thing to be good, but it's another thing when i'm actively like using the thing, and i'm just smiling like, "oh, man this wrist rest feels so good. oh, look how cool the touch pad is! oh, do you see how it's
purple, it's orange, it's yellow, it's purple, it's
orange, like that's cool!" and that might just be me being a little excited by shiny things, but there's something fundamentally
great about this device. what i really appreciate is
the fact that i have laptops that generally speaking
are my single device. it's not what i'm gonna
go home to my desktop, and this and that. like i take one laptop home
with me, take it to work. i plug it into my setup. i use one device all the time, and it's been interesting to see how the gram style has fit into that. so performance-wise, while
this is not a gaming device, not meant for hardcore content creation, it still does have a 13th
gen intel core i7-1360p, four performance cores that
could boost up to 5 gigahertz, eight efficiency cores, 32
gigs of ram, 1 terabyte ssd. i'll be honest, i've had a very good
relationship with lg for years. i mean, you look at
the monitor on my desk, this is the original 2016 lg ultrafine 5k, and it's nice that i can plug my gram in and push the full 5k
resolution over thunderbolt, and it integrates well into my setup. but i've had such good experience with lg across so many years, but also, i legitimately
love the company, right? like i have lg oleds in my house. those aren't sponsored. i bought those. ken, how many lg oleds do you own? - [ken] three. - did you buy any of them? - yeah.
- all of them, right? - yeah, 100%.
- exactly. this is just a huge step forward, and i'm so, so happy that lg have actually
decided to sell it in the us. because honestly, if they didn't, they would be doing themselves
a massive disservice. one of the party tricks
really is the touch pad. so at first glance, there is no touch pad, but when you actually go to touch it, you'll see that there are a
couple of leds on the sides which denote what actually is touchable. and when you actually go to click on it, instead of having a physical press, instead you feel some haptic feedback, and i'll say it actually is quite nice. now mind you, if this is not your style, if you want something that's
a little bit more obvious, the other grams are available
that have a regular touch pad, but for me, the look of this and the actual experience
is really quite nice. and the same thing goes for the keyboard. now, this is a 16-inch version. personally, i usually
like 14-inch devices, but you do have a small
number pad on the right side. there's like a lot of
attention to detail here that is easy to miss at first glance. like if you use this
at night, for example, the backlighting is incredibly consistent, like one of the best-looking
backlights on a keyboard. does that matter that much? probably not. is that nice little detail
that i very much appreciate that lg put the time and care
and attention to put into? absolutely. at this point, i'm finding
excuses to grab the gram style. i might be able to do
something on my phone, but, oh, you know what? ooh, ooh, oh. those are the noises i
make when i'm, mm, oh. sorry i'm really carried away right now. i hope you see how like
genuinely excited i am for this. like again, this is a
sponsored video by lg. the reason it's sponsored is
because i basically was like, "i have to have this thing! you have to let me do a video on it!" like this is not like, "oh, it was some random thing
that came through the office." like i was so excited by this thing that i needed to make this video. (hands smacking) it's one thing to say that this
is a thin and light laptop, but it's another thing
to actually appreciate just how light it really is. again, 16-inch device. whereas if i had a 16-inch laptop from a certain fruit-themed
company, which, mind you, just a little slightly
different class of performance, that will weigh literally
double what this gram is. there's also a good selection of ports including dual thunderbolt 4. we've got a headphone
jack, which side note, i hate that companies are starting to remove the headphone jack on laptops. so thank you to lg for not
removing it on the gram style. and we also have a full-sized usb-a, as well as a microsd card slot. i also appreciate that the gram comes with a
very slim 65-watt charger, which, of course, since it's usb-c, you could charge other devices, but i appreciate that
lg are fully committed to the thin and light aspect, no matter if it's the
charger or the laptop itself. not calling anyone out, but there's a few laptops
i've looked at recently that have the big chunky
power brick, and i'm like, (object tumbles)
(cat cries) "okay, i guess." let me tell you about this
screen on this device. like it's one thing to
have a beautiful exterior, but this is a terrific 3.2k oled display. not only does it run at 120 hertz, it's a 16 by 10 aspect ratio, and it also has 100% coverage
of the dci-p3 color space, which is important for me because i do appreciate having
a very color accurate display when i'm reviewing cuts and doing maybe a little bit
of light content creation. the only thing i could
possibly complain about with this laptop display is the fact that it is not available in a touchscreen. other grams are, but the style right now
only comes in non-touch, and it's fine, but i would
like to be able to touch it, mostly because i instinctively
touch my screen a lot, and i forget that's not touchscreen. you touch your screen sometimes. don't act like i'm the weird one here. you guys do that, right? - [ken] nope. - the dolby atmos compatible
speakers are decent on the gram, although i
understand that this is a style, and they wanna make sure that
the aesthetic is really nice, but having them
upward-firing would be nice. the style also has a decent webcam, which does support facial
recognition using windows hello. while i personally really like the style, there are also updates to the standard gram lineup this year. so i have the lg gram 17 here, which obviously gets you a
larger display, so 17 inches, and on top of that, it actually is a little bit
more optimized for gaming. not only do you have a 144-hertz display, which does support variable refresh rate from 31 all the way up to
that 144, but on top of that, you get a little bit of extra performance. not only the 13th gen
intel core i7 processor, but importantly this is
outfitted with an rtx 3050. now, no, that's not some
hardcore gaming laptop, but to be able to do a little bit of content creation and
some gaming on the side, i appreciate it because if
you've got a 17-inch laptop, you better believe i
want some extra power. did i just run into the
rock when i said power? keep your eyes on the roads, kid. to me, there's a couple
of big takeaways here. first and foremost, i'm happy
to see lg taking the gram and moving it solidly
in the right direction. they already had a very competent laptop, but now with the style line, they've got some real,
well, style with it. but on top of that, they haven't
done that at the sacrifice of any of the ports or the performance or the lightweight or anything like that. like they've really taken everything that i loved about the gram
and taken the extra step of making it so much nicer to look at and so much nicer to use. thank you to lg for sponsoring this video and letting me actually get
my hands on these devices. if you'd like to know anything more, definitely be sure to go check them out at the links in the description.