- intel's sponsored, or
at least they tried to. i have never done this before, but shortly after i arrived at intel's israel development center, i ripped up the previously
agreed upon sponsorship check. because the lab here is so far beyond anything i have ever
seen before in my life that i would've paid them
to take a tour of it. what you guys are about
to see is the full monty. not just the facilities and the equipment, but the people who created
many of my favorite cpus. from core 2 duo back in 2006, all the way to 12th gen alder lake. and somehow, maybe they were all sick, pr and marketing didn't get in the way, giving me nearly unlimited
access to the engineers, lab techs and project leads. you wanna know how the sausage gets made? wrong video, but if you
wanna know how cpu gets made you've come to the right place. oh, just like our sponsor, crucial, don't just work
faster, work better. crucial's ddr5 ram is
engineered for efficiency, so you can load, transfer
and download files faster, with less lag time and more efficiency. get your crucial ddr5 ram
today using the link below. (upbeat music) creating a cpu takes a really long time, from this wishlist scribbled
on a whiteboard by engineering to final delivery 12th gen core was about
a 30 month process. the first step is design, that takes a year or more
of hundreds of engineers working tirelessly to build a simulation of a working processor. once they're pretty sure it's gonna work, the blueprints get handed over to the fab to produce a batch of
es1 or alpha silicon. that's gonna take a few months due to the incredible complexity
of the fabrication process. but that doesn't mean they're
gonna be waiting around, the simulated version of the chip can be used in the meantime
to develop firmware, software and testing tools. and launching any new processor design, let alone the four dies and
six different configurations from nine to 240 watts of alder lake, requires close
collaboration with partners. so at this stage intel
shares high level timelines and design considerations,
like expected thermals and power consumption. of course, there's no guarantee that what they get back from
the fab is going to work. in fact, it's pretty much
a given that it won't. man i would give just about anything to be a fly on the wall in this room during a product launch. this is the power on room, and when the first es1
chips roll off the line intel flies experts in every field. memory, bios, networking, you name it, to here in israel where they
all get together in this room with the goal of powering on the chip, and booting an operating system. sounds simple enough, right? but no, even the best simulations can't possibly hope to account
for all of the problems that can occur in the real world. and i give you my personal
linus tech tips guarantee that if i brought a black light in here i'd find sweat, blood and tears on pretty much every working surface. - i work more than 24 hours
in a day to make it happen. it's really amazing, i was even when my wife give
a birth was my little child, it's even more than that. you will say that.
(group cheering) - once the most game
break bugs are ironed out, usually through software
and firmware workarounds, that es1 silicon makes its
way out to the validation lab. where the goal is to achieve a much higher level of functionality. and this place is absolutely wild. so make sure that you're subscribed for the deeper dive that's coming. there is so much crazy gear in here that i actually extended my trip to make an additional video about it. which is another first. but let's get you through
the basics for now. it's divided into multiple zones, each of them focused on validating either a specific subsystem
or some combination. ci ivt is right outside the power on room, and this acts as a small
scale testing ground for new fixes, which
could easily be rolled out multiple times a day while
the lab is running full tilt. as you might expect the core ip section, where they validate the cpu
cores themselves is the biggest. and by an even bigger margin than you probably already realize, this lab everything you just saw, actually only contains the team that worked alder lake's p
cores or high performance cores. the e core, or efficiency
core validation lab is somewhere else entirely. but if you keep wandering around in here, you'll find basically everything else. the mislabeled memory debug team faced some really unique
challenges with alder lake thanks to the four separate
memory technologies that it has to support
during the transition from ddr4 to ddr5. external devices like
thunderbolt docks and usb drives need to be tested. and woo. this aisle is fondly
nicknamed times square, because it's full of all the
different kinds of screens that you might wanna
connect to your computer. high resolution, high
refresh rate, htmi 2.1, you name it they've got it. and sometimes all at once. this alder lake mobile test
bench was running 4k video on two high resolution external monitors, plus the embedded display port display to represent the built-in
one on your notebook. it's looking pretty good
ladies and gentlemen. the only thing missing around here is some quality desk
pads from lttstore.com. what is this mice directly on the table? all of these teams work in
parallel as much as possible, testing, retesting, making
sure that someone's else's fix didn't break your own biz. until finally we end up in sst. stress and stability testing is where the smaller scale validation now gets run over longer durations, and at a much greater scale. most of the es1 bugs will be squashed, or at the very least bound. and then they go through
the whole process again with more refined beta es2 silicon. then rinse and repeat
until finally the design is ready for prime time. which doesn't mean that testing is over. every chip that rolls off
the line gets validated, but at intel scale quality control can't possibly be done by hand like this. so let's go downstairs and
see some really cool robots, shall we? the device under test, in this case a cpu, gets installed in what's
called a tester interface unit. which is a giant pcb that plugs into
the back of the green machine and is covered in probe points that can be monitored using
the oscilloscope in the back. this tells the engineers
exactly what's happening on even a single pin during the test. then when it's ready,
the thermal head here, which we met earlier, presses
down and the tests begin. what you're looking at right now is basically the same test rig, but designed for an engineer
to stand in front of it and work on it manually. and with rigs like these
intel can throw vectors at anything from a single transistor, to a block of transistors, to an entire subsystem of the whole chip, or any combination of the above. and they can do it at
temperatures ranging from subzero all the way up to over a hundred degrees, with the help of the thermal head. synthetic tests are fine and good, but ppv is the end game. product platform validation
takes place on pretty much every cpu off the line at this point. and involves taking that
theoretically working processor and installing it in
an actual motherboard, connected to actual storage
memory and peripherals. and checking to make sure that everything is working as expected. these rigs can do all kinds of cool things that a customer would never
encounter in the real world. they can even have the cpu go to sleep, but still output to a display. i'm sure there's a reason
that they test that, but it's not obvious to me. this one's a little more obvious. i love this room. it's all fine and good to have one processor that works
with that one kit of memory that you validated it with. but if you wanna deliver
a consistent experience you need way more data. and robots like this
one can help you get it. whether you wanna test
a huge number of cpus with every possible
configuration of memory. or, run countless chips through a test where they're using an
external graphics card. this is the place to do it. and okay, actually it's not countless, intel did disclose that
over 10,000 systems get powered on internally
before they launch, in order to hit their quality target. and they never rest, remember that timeline
we talked about before? if alder lake was started
30 months ago, do the math. that means meteor lake is
almost certainly well underway. and if we were to rifle around through the stacks and stacks
of processors in this place, we would almost certainly find
raptor lake chips and more. they do everything from
compute, to communications, to ai and security here. and if alder lake is anything to go on all that stuff that's in development is gonna be hecka exciting. just like i'm excited to
tell you about our sponsor. nzxt, with nzxt build
getting a custom-built pc is easier than ever. it's available in the us, australia, germany, netherlands, france, and italy. and allows you to find a pc
that fits your needs perfectly. whether it be a custom, a
pre-built, or a build kit. just set your budget, see how your pc will perform
in your favorite games, and build takes care of the rest. you can even customize
and upgrade your build with various nzxtt case options, and rgb lighting setups. nzxt features transparent pricing, with a flat $99,00 assembly
fee in your local currency. and they'll ship within 48 business hours. with all your pc's components
covered by one warranty plan nzxt will manage any
problems that you have through their expert live
chat for real time help and troubleshooting. there's even free and easy returns for any system that does not meet the build engine fps performance
guarantee within 10%. so check out nzxt build today using the link in the video description. if you guys enjoyed this video maybe go check out the fab tour. because i think that's the
only thing that we've ever done that can hold a candle to this tour of the research and development center.