- so i've gotten into some controversy. this is not a video that i wanted to make. in fact, i've actually
put off making this video for a few days because i was hoping that things would just kind of blow over. but it's just escalated, right? like i've been doxed, it's
sort of crossing some lines that i'm just not comfortable with. and it's all over a video game console. so if you're landing on
this video and you're like, "austin, why so serious? what happened?" i made a video this weekend,
on saturday specifically, talking about the brand new
updated model of the ps5. the title was the new ps5 is worse. and let's just say, the internet
has not been super pleased with some of the things i
did and said in that video. okay, so let me run through the idea for what happened there, because it was fairly straightforward. so a couple months ago, sony announced, or they didn't even announce, there was like a leak liked
regulatory filing or something, there was an updated version of the ps5 and the only real thing that looked significantly different was the weight. it was about 300 grams or a little over half a pound lighter. i saw it as kind of vaguely interesting, especially 'cause they didn't
really say what was different. and you know, sony has a
little bit of a track record for sort of dumbing down their consoles and kind of cost reducing them over time, which is fair enough. but there was no sort of
word on anything like that. fast forward to a little over a week ago and these things had actually
started to hit the market. so they were starting to hit
in like japan and australia. and so i was directly
talking with someone in japan who had gotten their hands
on one of these units, paid a lot of money to
have it shipped here, so i could take a look. it's not like a ps5 slim
or anything like that, but i was kind of going
under this assumption that if there was such
a big weight difference that there would be some
significant internal change, right? i mean a half a pound,
that's a lot of something that is missing out of the ps5. so i bought it, got into the studio and immediately started shooting the video on what was different. so if you've seen that video,
you know that i go through and test a bunch of stuff
with it and blah, blah, blah. but the culmination really was when i actually cracked
it open and saw that they have massively reduced
the size of the heat sink. and so i posted the video, sharing my findings,
sharing my opinions on it. and boy, i was not ready for just how upset, i think people are. so yeah, let's break it down. what i saw was that
the new ps5 runs hotter and with the thermal images
that i was able to take, plus the fact that i tore open the ps5 and saw that sony has significantly reduced the size of the heat sink. putting two and two
together, i determined that it is a downgrade compared
to the first model. now, a lot of people have
taken issue with that. some people have said that, oh, maybe it's more like
thermally efficient, for example. but my argument there would be that just doesn't square
with laws of physics. now, if i had opened up the ps5 and it was a very different
array of like the heat sink and the fins and the heat
pipes and everything. if they had like extra air channels or a bigger fan or whatever the case is, and to be fair, the fan
was slightly different, although it probably wasn't enough to make a massive difference. certainly, i don't think enough to completely overhaul the
amount of sort of cooling that they've removed with
the actual heat sink. then sure. but that's not the case. the ps5, it just simply
has a smaller heat sink. there's less aluminum,
there's less copper, there's less material,
there's 300 grams less. and the laws of physics
pretty simply dictate that there's less material
and less surface area to remove that heat off of the chip. now, can i tell you with
1000% certainty that the chip, which is really the most
important thing on the inside, that the actual soc is running hotter than the original model? no, without being sony, i cannot tell you exactly what that is. but using some, what i would
consider to be common sense, that the cooling apparatus is far smaller and therefore, the temperatures i'm seeing that are coming out of the
system are significantly higher. i feel pretty confident in
the fact that the new ps5 simply does not run as
cool as the original. my thought on why the
new ps5 has been changed, is economics. so the ps5, i think, is
significantly quieter than earlier ps4s, right? i think sony's had issues in the past with consoles that were too loud, especially if you had like
one of those early ps4 pros. and my thought would be is that when they were developing the ps5, they maybe didn't know
exactly how much power they had to run through the
chip, they didn't know exactly what the whole cooling apparatus would be, they didn't know what kind of yields they were gonna get from tsmc, all this kind of stuff. so my assumption is, is they
over-engineered the cooling beyond what they really needed
and then they shipped it because, oh, okay, it was fine. however, with the various chip shortages and the price of raw materials and ultimately with a lot
more data than they had when they made this decision
two years ago or whatever, my thought would be that sony
has probably looked at the ps5 and go, "you know what? we
actually slightly over-engineered the cooling to hit our
specs, whether it would be on the clock speed or the
longevity or whatever." and so to save money,
they have trimmed back on the material, which not
only saves in the actual copper and aluminum they have to purchase, but also in like shipping
costs of a pallet of ps5s that each weigh half a
pound less, that adds up. now, what's kind of
unfortunate about this, in addition to all of the anger on the fanboy side of things, is in fact, that scalpers have
really piled onto this video and now they're selling
the first models of the ps5 for significantly more than
they were before the video. that's stupid. look, if you have the new and
the old ps5 in front of me and asked me to pick one,
i would pick the old one. "but you'll have to pay more for it." five bucks. look, it
is a small difference. it's a difference, and it's a difference that
i was happy to highlight, but it is nowhere near the thing that it has been sort
of been made out to be. when the video first went live, there were a few people
like, "oh, i don't know, blah, blah, blah, whatever." but over the last few days, i mean, my twitter has
been absolutely unusable. people like, "(beep) you." "microsoft paid you." or like, "oh, you're wrong." or the amount of videos people have made. and look, i'm not gonna hate on you for jumping on a trend
and making the stuff. but the amount of like.
"austin evans is a liar." "the ps5 is no different." or, "oh, i think that the thermal material they took out there's completely useless." and all this kind of stuff. but what's kind of happened is that a lot of the things i said
in that initial video, they were written up on like
lots of articles and websites and all over like reddit and stuff. and then people then quoted that and then made videos
on like intercutting me talking about the playstation, the xbox. and in ways, it's gotten to a ridiculous
sort of degree really quickly. i've been making videos
for 12 years on tech. i've done a lot of videos
on controversial subjects, but the level of just toxicity that i've seen with this conversation, is orders of magnitude higher
than anything i've ever seen. look, there's a lot of
reasons i think, behind that. but ultimately, it's hard
because if you look at someone like digital foundry, who i
have a ton of respect for, and they were the only
people who've actually, instead of just commenting on this thing, actually they've got one of these ps5s, right, they went out and
bought one of the new ps5s. and in their testing, well, i don't believe they've
done the thermal testing, they determined that it has
probably about the same power as the original ps5
and that you're getting about the same performance,
which is well worth a read. people keep sending it to me as if it's like the exposed austin
evans is wrong article. i 100% agree with every single
word in that article, right? at no point have i said that the ps5 is losing performance
or anything like that. all i have said is that
based on my own testing, it seems to be running hotter, which would logically make
sense with a smaller heat sink. and therefore, you could have
some issues down the line. if you're in a really thermally
constrained environment, you're in a tv cabinet or something, your ps5 may run hotter,
it may have less longevity. but that's all i've said. however, the discourse has quickly turned into i hate the ps5 and
i'm this clickbait youtuber who doesn't know what he's talking about and is just trying to get views. (austin grunting) thumbnails and titles are
incredibly important on youtube. and some people have taken
issue with what the title and thumbnail i used for the ps5 video. fair enough. fair criticism. what i would say to that
is, at least for the title, i do think the ps5 is worse. is there a more accurate
version of the title, which, i think the new
ps5 is very slightly worse because i opened it up? yeah, sure. maybe that's a
slightly more accurate title. but ultimately, i think
the message of my thoughts on the ps5 were accurately
portrayed by that title, hasn't been changed, won't be changed. on the thumbnail, which
i think is probably where people got a little bit more salty. yeah. so this is the
thumbnail of my ps5 video. and yes, it has been photoshopped, that's not exactly what
the ps5 looks like. but here's the thing, right. the way that the youtube algorithm works is that if a video does not get a click, it is buried, right. it is very simple. if you don't get the click on the video, youtube will not push it out,
it will not get impressions, it will not get views, you're
wasting your time, right? now if i had made a ps5
on fire, which sure yeah, we've done some silly thumbnails
in the past, absolutely. but this to me, i guess at
least, and maybe i'm wrong and maybe this is where
your opinion differs, i don't think this is a
crazy clickbait thumbnail. in fact, actually the original
version of this thumbnail before it went live was actually of the proper two ps5s side by side. the problem is, is that most
people look at a thumbnail for about a half a second,
you're scrolling through. if i show you this thumbnail, pff, oh, there it went. were you able to see it? were you able to kind
of tell the difference? no, probably not. because, well, yes when
you look at it in person, when you're actually watching the video, the difference in the heat
sinks is pretty noticeable. but on a tiny little thumbnail
that flies across the screen, it's simply not something that you'll see. the other thing that has been everywhere, is how i'm a paid microsoft
shill, and i hate sony. look, yes, i absolutely got my hands on an xbox series x early,
microsoft provided an opportunity for me to take a look at the series x. sony did not offer that same opportunity, which means that while yes, i
made a lot of series x videos on like talking about it in the news. and then i got my hands-on review and it's all that kind of
stuff throughout last year. all of these sony ps5
videos i did last year were entirely me buying
controllers, buying consoles, trying to get my hands on them. now you can say that, microsoft
giving me a review unit makes me biased and that's fair criticism, if you think that's the way it works. i can tell you though that if
i would've had review units of the ps5, i would have
made twice as many videos because the numbers don't lie. the ps5 is a far more
popular console than the xbox and therefore, as someone who makes videos that are supposed to be popular, i want to make the thing that
is going to perform best. let me be crystal clear, if a video has a paid
sponsorship, i disclose it. not only because that's
the right thing to do, it's also the thing that i
have to do legally, right? so when i've been sponsored
by microsoft or sony or any number of our other
sponsors that keep the lights on and keep the channel running and stuff, i will say straight up this
video is sponsored by blank. right? so look, believe me or not
believe me, it's up to you. but microsoft had nothing
to do with this ps5 video. and in fact, i would go
even farther and like, look, if you think that i'm
some biased and microsoft shill, you know what i did the
first second i got my hands on a series x, an actual
fully functional unit? i didn't follow the embargo of like talking about games and stuff. i tried to overheat the thing. do you think microsoft was happy when i did a prototype xbox series x in months ahead of time, and i make a video trying to overheat it? no, they weren't happy about that. but i don't care, right? as long as i'm not breaking
some rule or anything like that, i want to make the videos
that are most interesting and relevant to you, right? i want to find these things out. i find it super fascinating. you know what that series
x video was all about? it was a similar concept to
what i did with this ps5. i was putting it in boxes, i was trying to cut off the air flow. i was trying to see exactly
how far you could push the series x to see if it was
actually engineered correctly versus something like, i don't know, some of the older systems
that had overheating issues or whatever the case is. in fact, the series x
video i did last year has been intercut on
twitter with my ps5 video to make it seem like i'm like
making the series x look good and the ps5 look bad. look, you can absolutely hold me to this. if microsoft comes out with
a follow-up xbox series x or series s that is downgraded, is less powerful in the
cooling or whatever, i will 1000% make a video
on it and call them out the exact same way that
i've called out sony, right? if that is the case, if they do that, i will be happy to dive
into it to find out exactly to the best of my ability what's going on and i will make a video all about it. you have my word on that. what's happened at this point is that, well, microsoft hasn't changed it at all, they're shipping the exact same console, which, you know, good or
bad, doesn't really matter, it's the exact same console
for thermal performance. that's not what i've been talking
about with this ps5 thing. i'm purely talking about the
old ps5 versus the new ps5, they're charging you the
exact same amount for, and yet has a inferior cooling solution. look, if you think i'm
wrong, that's your opinion. and be my guest, if
you want to make memes, you want to go make videos on
why austin evans is a liar, go for it, right? cash in on the controversy,
it's not like i've never done a video on something controversial. but things are, this is a ps5, right? the doxing and some of the
more extreme elements of this, i think are way out of proportion. right, i get it. i am making content, i am making things that
you may not agree with. i stand behind the video i
made, i stand behind my opinion, which again, agree with or
disagree with, that's fine. but the level of toxicity in
the community, i think is, it's a lot, right? now, not to name names,
and this is not me, but people i know in
the sort of this space have gotten like death threats and just like ridiculous stuff, which there's no excuse for that, right? ultimately, we're talking
about a ps5, right? i'm talking about a ps5, which
is a couple degrees warmer, that has a slightly smaller heat sink. it's not worth taking things
to such a ridiculous degree. that's why i'm making this video. that's why, i would be very happy if this is the last time
i have to talk about this. but it's something that i wanted to say. something i wanted to get out
there because it's a lot. so, that's it. thank you for watching, especially
if you made it this far. and your regularly scheduled
programming will resume shortly. but yeah.