in a previous video looking at singapore's 
birth rate and its consequences,   i mentioned the idea of foreign talents. 
the island country has long sought to make   itself a destination for the best talents 
in the world. its government says that it   is in a "global war for talent" so to 
attract the stars and high performers. but the strategy has had substantial political 
repercussions. especially online, the criticism   of hiring foreign talent migrants is common. 
foreign talents receive certain privileges and   compete with natives for high paying jobs. 
naturally, this has engendered resentment. in this video we're going to look at 
singapore's high value global talent strategy.? now before we begin, i am aware that this 
is a controversial topic in singapore.   to be honest when i began my singapore 
series on this channel, i had no idea it was.   i will attempt to be as neutral 
as possible on this topic,   and i ask my viewers to leave thoughtful, 
constructive comments. to simply yell at   each other and make false claims does not help 
anyone. that's what shouting into a pillow is for. alright? here we go. singapore has some of the lowest fertility 
rates in the world. these ultra-low fertility   rates have resulted in the rapid aging of 
the native singaporean population. in 2011,   the total fertility rate hit 1.2, then 1.1, and 
it has not really budged from that ever since. this is despite some of the most aggressive 
pro-natal policies in east asia. the government   has created tax incentives, founded matchmaking 
agencies, modified housing schemes, and of course,   blared out a plethora of baby-making messaging. 
they want to make it very clear that the nation   considers its people its most precious 
resource and procreation is a national duty. the government is anxious about 
the potential of its working-age   population rapidly starting to 
decline over the next few decades.   they are also worried about the commensurate 
decline of its economy's future competitiveness.   and that has led it to open the doors to 
high-value temporary and permanent immigrants. this takes place within a larger context of 
singapore shifting its economic national policy   from that of attracting foreign investment 
capital to attracting "foreign talents". for the first several decades of its economic 
growth, singapore marketed itself as a cheap,   business-friendly center for 
multinational companies to invest in.   but as the nation entered the 1990s, 
singapore's cost of living rose,   making it much harder to deliver 
future growth the same way.   looking to what was next, the government settled 
on transitioning to a knowledge-based economy. immigration would be part of 
that. prime minister goh chok tong   said as such in the 1997 national day rally: > in the information age, human talent, not 
physical resources or financial capital,   is the key factor for economic 
competitiveness and success.   we must, therefore, welcome the infusion of 
knowledge which foreign talent will bring in this worldview, you have a cadre 
of transnational elites - top ranked   and highly educated employees 
of multinational companies,   international finance, it companies, and 
others. they live in big global cities like   hong kong or london - and can go wherever 
they want. they are elite with a capital e. their unique skill is to be able to 
bring a combination of information,   ability and contacts from one locale to another. 
in other words, they transfer knowledge for   economic or innovation purposes - encouraging the 
flow of ideas throughout an industry and a place. their unique "tacit knowledge", a type of 
knowledge that researchers classify as not   being easily transferrable on a zoom call or 
in an email, give them and their employers a   competitive advantage. local singaporean 
workers working alongside these elites   can pick up knowledge and experiences that 
they would not otherwise have had been able to. one frequently cited success story 
from the past involved the national   migration of ethnic chinese entrepreneurs 
and executives from silicon valley to taiwan   in the 1980s and 90s. these people 
brought with them the contacts   and knowledge to strengthen the information 
technology industry in places like hsinchu. many of the entrepreneurs and top management 
behind taiwanese companies like tsmc   were not born there. they came to 
taiwan at the behest of the taiwanese   government, and the taiwanese electronics, 
knowledge-based economy prospered as a result.   that is the lasting economic effect that singapore 
wanted with this foreign talents strategy. the government undertook this foreign talents 
strategy with diligence. on the visa side,   they created three types of employment visas 
- something called the work pass system. it is a three tier system. the 
first tier is the work permit,   and it is for unskilled and semi-skilled workers.   the types who labor to build the many buildings 
in the cityscape. they are called "guest workers". the s-pass is for middle-class workers.   they need to have relevant experience or 
secondary education. they must command   a monthly salary of at least some amount, 
right now as of this recording $2,500 sgd. and then there is the employment pass. this 
is for the elites - people like executives,   managers and trained professionals. 
they need to earn at least   $4,500 sgd a month. for those who make even more 
money, you got other tiers which i won't go into. to find people willing to take these visas, 
the singaporean government established the   singapore talent recruitment committee in 1998. 
offices were set up in perth, boston, sydney,   los angeles and more to promote singapore 
as a location in which to live and work. privately owned recruiting firms also established 
offices in singapore to recruit high performing   executives in the financial services, high 
tech, biology and manufacturing industries. those efforts were on the demand 
side. but no point in getting   people over to live in singapore 
if they do not want to stay there.   thus, the government sought to brand 
singapore as the "renaissance city" and   "a great place to live, work, and play" - 
favored destinations for western expatriates. recent urban development plans have 
been implemented with this goal in mind.   whenever someone visits singapore and 
tells you that it is quite "clean",   that is exactly what they are shooting for. numerous restaurants, bars and coffee shops 
have sprouted along the singapore river   focusing on serving foreigners, 
especially those from the west.   british-style pubs like harry's bar and penny 
black have become important expat watering holes. you have certain neighborhoods that are distinctly 
more "western" like holland village - where the   merchants and the shops cater to westerners. the 
look and feel of these enclaves is deliberate,   so to make its residents 
think they are back at home. the push for immigration has substantially changed 
the composition of the singaporean population.   today a quarter of singapore's 5-ish million 
people are non-residents, meaning that they   are neither citizens nor permanent residents. 
the foreign population has grown four-fold from   the 1970s to 1999, then doubled again to 
1.6 million in the ten years afterwards. complaining about the government is 
practically a national past time.   i get it, people like to complain. and 
a real case can be made that foreigners   compete with native singaporeans for good 
jobs, causing downward pressures on wages. with all that being said, the 
vitriol and criticism directed   to foreigners and expatriates living 
in singapore can get pretty sharp.   when i released my video about chartered 
semiconductor, i noticed that an awful   lot of the comments focused - not on the fierce 
battle that chartered fought with tsmc or that the   government eventually managed to build a thriving 
semiconductor industry for the country - but on   the fact that the government hired a bunch 
of foreigners to run and work for chartered. side note. something that i had left out 
in that video but should have mentioned   was that tapping the expertise of foreigners 
had been and still is a generally accepted   practice in the semiconductor industry. as i 
mentioned earlier, tsmc started out the same way.   even today, nearly half of their 
independent directors are american or   british - with chairman mark liu holding 
taiwanese-american dual citizenship. the foreigner immigration issue 
has become a divisive one.   and the population has made it clear 
that there will be electoral consequences   if it goes too far. the most infamous 
example came in 2013 when the government   released a paper called "a sustainable 
population for a dynamic singapore". the paper for the most part is pretty mundane, 
but it did put forward one explosive proposal.   it suggested that singapore would "take in 
between 15,000 and 25,000 new citizens every   year" and that the island's population 
would rise to almost 7 million by 2030. people got nasty and a crowd of 5,000 
gathered to protest. it was the largest   crowd since independence. in a place where 
such gatherings are carefully controlled,   this was a big deal. coming 
after a historic 2011 election   where the government won only 60.1% of 
the vote, it sent a pretty clear message. (i know, i know, 60%, but the governing 
pap has not gotten that low a share   ever since. and that counts the time 
they voted during a global pandemic.) when asked what bothers them about the 
foreign talents issue, angry singaporeans   say that their government has abandoned them 
and sold off their interests to foreigners.   those foreigners come and live here but do 
not have their country's interests in heart.   rather, they see singapore as a mere 
stepping stone towards something better. the government obviously had to respond. 
it did not entirely roll back its foreign   talents strategy, but rather made tweaks to it. 
it implemented stricter immigration criteria for   its foreign talents. this includes raising the 
required salary level for the employment pass,   granting fewer people permanent residency,   and capping the number of international 
students at singapore's universities. at the same time, the government 
instituted programs looking to   strengthen the "singaporean core" and 
head off any further nativist feelings.   that means teaching new citizens their 
country's history and values as well   as unique aspects of national identity 
like singlish and singaporean cuisine. companies were issued guidelines 
to maintain a "singaporean core"   within their ranks so that natives 
can be first considered before   opening up a position to foreigners. 
and on the human capital side,   new programs to upskill workers in new skills 
so to make natives more employable by companies. governments have a tough job in balancing 
between economic growth and social stability.   real problems can emerge from either 
having too much or too little immigration.   for now, the government seems to be navigating 
between the two. the economy despite the pandemic   remains fundamentally strong - singaporean 
households enjoy incomes higher than that   in the netherlands, hong kong, and austria. 
and far, far ahead of taiwan, by the way. the discontent from transitioning to the 
knowledge-based, immigrant-driven economy   has not broken out from under the surface. if the 
government continues to respond to and calibrate   based on the people's feelings, i 
think that balance can continue.