- hey guys, this is austin. this is the iphone 11 and if you're considering
buying an iphone, this is the one to get. so we have to start with the cameras. so this year, the iphone
11 has a pair of cameras. a standard-wide angle as
well as a new ultra-wide. what i'm curious to see is
exactly how this compares to its predecessor, the iphone xr. so first of all let's start
with the main shooters. well i can immediately see there's a lot more
dynamic range on the 11, especially when you look
over ken's shoulder, there's a little bit
more detail in the road, whereas it's pretty
much bricked on the xr. also, this looks sharp. like that looks significantly sharper. if you look at the text above
the red, like on the handle, i can barely read it,
it says "camera front", but on the 11 that's
actually pretty clear. something else i like
here is that it seems to be a little bit more natural on the 11. so, even though the xs as well as the xr, they had good cameras, sometimes they would be a
little bit too over-aggressive with their hdr trying to pull
a little bit more detail out even though the image
didn't quite look natural. whereas on the 11, if
there's a darker area, it doesn't mind sort of
crushing it down a little bit to give you a more natural look. there's still a lot of detail,
a lot of dynamic range. that's pretty impressive. something new this year on the main camera is that apparently it
has 100% focus pixels. so if i kinda move in and out, specifically if i get nice and close, it should actually do a pretty good job of keeping you in focus. now the other thing which
is new here is, of course, that ultra-wide camera, so i'm recording video
with the standard shooter. however, if i press the ultra-wide button, it immediately jumps out to
the ultra-wide perspective. this is obviously going
to give you a little bit of a loss in quality,
specifically in low light, but i mean that's actually cool, especially considering they've
got that really impressive video stabilization. i mean, this almost looks like
i'm on a gimbal or something. so, this is what video
looks like as i'm walking with the ultra-wide camera. between that perspective as
well as the super steady shot. gotta say, this is
actually pretty impressive, and if i want, i can jump right
back into the main shooter. and i've gotta say, they've
done a pretty good job of keeping it consistent. there's no doubt that this year, one of the biggest
upgrades to the iphone 11 is the definitely on the camera front. so, neither of them are perfect. both have a lot of issues with
the camera and the screen. however, i prefer the look of the 11. it looks a little bit brighter,
a little bit more saturated, especially in the background. that portrait mode still actually does look pretty nice though. let's do a portrait selfie, shall we? so the front-facing camera
has been fully redesigned for the iphone 11. so this is the standard shooter. however, if i press the button, it'll make it a little bit wider. look friends. i'm actually curious to see
how the portrait looks though. what's my iphone 11 portrait face like? you know what? it completely missed my glasses. literally, my glasses
are like cut off there. yikes. that's not great, lemme try another one. yeah that's better, didn't
lose the glasses there. it does a pretty good job
of cutting the hair out. there's a lot of detail on my face too. definitely no smoothing going on. now we also have the slofie, which is, of course, a slow-motion selfie. let me demonstrate. (laughing) it does slow-motion
front-facing video now. so, there's no doubt that the iphone 11 is a pretty big upgrade
on the camera front. however, when you compare it to the pro, what you're losing here
is a telephoto camera this has the ultra-wide and the wide but not that zoomed-in shot. now a triple camera set up
is certainly nothing new. lg, huawei and samsung have all been shipping triple cameras
for a little while now. now while it is nice to have a telephoto, honestly the 2x zoom on the pro, as well as something like on the note 10, isn't actually that big of a deal. you do lose quality by
going with the telephoto. and while it is a little more zoomed in, often times i actually
find it's not that useful. as far as i'm concerned, if i was going to pick two cameras, i would prefer that ultra-wide. that being said, the 11 pro
does have that other option that you're missing on the 11 but i mean, eh? now, one of the major
new features this year is a night mode for the iphone 11. so to test, we're here in the studio which has been pretty much
completely blacked out. there's a little bit of light
over here from the window, as well as a tiny bit from the ceiling, but it's pretty dark in here, as evidenced by if i turn
off this phone screen, you can't see me anymore, can you? hi matt, are you ready
to be my photo demo? - oh yeah, i'm ready. - okay, let's start out the iphone xr. with the xr, ready and erm
i will say it's not terrible. there's a little bit of detail here, but muddy would be a good
way to describe that one. let's try on the pixel. okay, are you ready matt? - oh yeah. - ready, and you know that actually
looks really impressive, so there's way more detail here. i mean, i can literally see
your individual eyebrow hairs. that's pretty solid. so something interesting
with the iphone 11 is that we do have a
little night-mode button, so i can actually change
how long it's going to run. so this is with it off and
it'll go up to 3 seconds, or max of 5, but i'm gonna
leave it on the auto setting. alright, are you ready matt? - [matt] yep. - and, shooting, holding
still, counts me down and boom we have our photo. that's also very impressive. i mean, it looks like there's
straight up light in here. take a look at what matt
looks like right now, and now take a look at what he
looks like on the iphone 11. the pixel looks to be
a little bit smoother but i think it's mostly because they're sort of aggressively cleaning up that detail. i do think that the iphone got the color balance a little bit right. on the pixel, everything looks a bit blue. that's pretty impressive. although, i will say your skin tones definitely do look better on the pixel, but everything in the background
looks very washed out. that's pretty close. regardless though, this
is super impressive considering just how dark it is in here. if i'm going to point
out the biggest weakness of the iphone 11, it is definitely going to be the display. so, just like with the iphone xr, we're looking at a 6.1" ips panel. and well, just like the iphone xr, it is usable, it's fine, but it is certainly not as good as most other high-end
phones on the market, especially that iphone 11 pro. not only is it fairly low resolution, but it also lacks the excellent
brightness and contrast of the oled on the iphone 11 pro. now, last year, this actually was a
slightly closer comparison, as the xr, even though it didn't
have the higher resolution, it actually had was a
slightly brighter panel with very very slightly
better color accuracy compared to the xs. but this year, it's no comparison. the 11 screen is fine, it's usable, but it's not as good as that 11 pro. now, there's some other small differences, including that bezels
are a little bit bigger on the iphone 11. but on the flip side, you actually have a wider
array of colors available. so you have this, what do you call this? like lavender, lilac? there's yellow, there's
green, there's red, there's white, there's black. personally, i like the colors and i also really like
the fact that it does only have the two cameras on the back. obviously, it would be
nice to have three cameras for practicality, but it's not ugly. this is much much better than the 11 pro. i know i'm giving the pro hard time and i'm sure a month from now, i'll completely forget about it, but i can't unsee just how unsightly those triple weird cameras are. this looks so much cleaner. now, there are a couple of
other downgrades with the 11 but most of them are fairly minor, so it does only support
2x2 lte as opposed to 4x4, so speeds will be a little bit slower. it is made out of aluminum
instead of stainless, which feels not quite so premium. and there are the other things, such as while it supports fast charging, it doesn't actually come with
a fast charger in the box, which is annoying. a lot of this stuff isn't a big deal. i mean, am i ever going to
realize that my two meters of water resistance on
the 11 isn't as good as four meters of diving on the 11 pro? no, i'm never gonna take it that deep, but i don't know why anyone else would. if you take a look at apple's site, they probably proclaim
that the iphone 11 pro is the first iphone
worthy of the pro name. okay, so when you look at it in real life, this is actually a very
straight forward upgrade compared to last year. so instead of selling the iphone
xr, they have the iphone 11, the xs is turned into the iphone 11 pro, and the xs max turned into the 11 pro max, because, yes, the iphone
11 pro max is now a name that i have to say with my words. while pro max isn't exactly a great name, i actually do think that the iphone 11 is a much much cleaner branding play, compared to the iphone xr of last year. so i think a lot of
people sort of maybe... they didn't write off the xr, because it was a very big seller for them, but a lot of people assume that
this was the budget iphone. it's the one that you
didn't really wanna get. obviously, a few years ago
there's was the iphone 5c, which was, straight up, a worse iphone compared to the 5s of the day. however, with the iphone
11, they've made this, pretty much, the default option. if you're gonna go buy a new iphone, i want the 11 or do you
want the pro with that? do you fries with that? do you want super-size with that? what if they called it
the iphone super-size? i talked in the past
about why the iphone xr was my favorite iphone of last year. and there were a lot of reasons for that. not only was it $250 cheaper, but of course, it had
the best battery life of any iphone. it was so much better than the xs. however, when you look
at the 11 this year, things have changed just a little bit. when apple announced that the iphone 11 is cheaper than the iphone xr, i was legitimately impressed. so now, when you look at the line up, you have at $700, the iphone 11, at $1000 dollars, you have the pro, and $1100 dollars for the pro max, but it's actually even a
better deal for the xr as soon as you look at the storage. wait, i mean the 11. the 11, 11. so, all three phones this year
come with 64 gig standard. however, the iphone 11 has a $50 upgrade to go to 128 gigs of storage, which in my opinion, is the sweet spot. if you wanna upgrade the storage
on the pro or the pro max, that's a full $150 to go to up to 256, which i think is probably
overkill for a lot of people. so, if you want some kind
of mid-range storage, the value proposition looks
even better for the iphone 11. one thing that's the same between the iphone 11
and pro are the specs. as inside, they share the
same apple a13 bionic chip. now, the a12 of last year is already the fastest chip on a phone. and this promises about
20% more performance. so that's good. it's easy to kind of make fun of it of it's a little bit faster
here, a little bit faster there, but the apple chip making team deserves some major, major props. this thing is ridiculously powerful. now, there are two ways
of looking at this. on one hand, it is a nice thing that both the lower-end iphone 11, as well as the higher-end pro, have the exact same spec. in fact, compared to last year, whereas the iphone xr had
a little bit less ram, they also shared the exact same four gigs. the other side which i do think is important to consider is that as an apple designed chip, they've actually made some pretty significant gains in efficiency, so this should be around
30% better than last year. again, directly relating to
some of that better battery life that we're seeing on all
three of the new iphones. obviously, having a bigger
cell inside is important, but having a more
power-efficient processor that is more powerful
and less power-using? power inefficient? basically, it is a faster chip that needs less power to run. they've done this by employing buzzwords, such as machine-learning. okay, so hear me out here. the machine-learning algorithms
they're actually using in that specific part of the a13 chip are actually very powerful. and what they use it for
is actually turning off different parts of the a13
bionic that aren't being used. now, generally speaking, there's some kind of level of finesse where you can turn off a core, or you've idled down something, you can do some stuff traditionally. however, almost every
potion of this a13 chip can be completely idled off which means that you're
not losing battery life just sitting around doing nothing. it's actually a very, very clever thing that they're doing here. now, i think all this plays
into a much grander vision of how the iphone can
continue to stay relevant. even at $700, while this
is cheaper than the pro, it is certainly not anywhere near the excellent budget options which could be several
hundred dollars cheaper. on one hand, you have people
who have older iphones which honestly are still totally fine and not really needing an upgrade, and on the other, you have people who are brand new to
buying a new smartphone, and they don't mind
switching over to android. and i think, to be able to
convince both of those groups, you gotta have the whole package, right? and that why you see such
an emphasis on the camera adding the wide-angle, adding
these different options. that's why you see such an emphasis on the performance, the battery life. i mean, at this point, if you're
selling an expensive phone, you need to deliver on all aspects. it's no longer good enough
to have a 90% phone, but it lets go on this or that. i mean, there are so many excellent phones which are available for three,
four, five hundred dollars that the world has changed
in a major, major way. and when you got that iphone 6s which is still putting in
work all these years later, i'm not surprised that apple's
getting a little bit nervous. and they're really
stepping up the game here.