- hey, i got it! hey guys, this is austin! and welcome to a very
special time of year, where everyone decides to give me things, that are of dubious quality to unbox on this wonderful,
wonderful channel. shall we begin the holiday festivities? i forgot that we were shooting this today. although, obviously, wes did not forget to
make sure that we have all of the holiday festivities in place. - [matt] so this is
from all of us, y'know. just to get the mood right. - the mood right. i don't like this one bit. you know what, christmas mystery tech is one of my favorite times of the year, because i get to be
appreciated by everyone. and they all show me just how much-- oh wait, i think i know what this is! this is actually cool! yes, okay, so this is a lighting
to usb cable, but with-- but with christmas lights! dude, that's really cool! all right, hold on, hold
on, i gotta plug this in. so, it's literally usb on one
end, lighting on the other, and this, so if i plug it in down here, i could plug my phone in and
show my holiday festive spirit at the exact same time, look at this. what more could you ask for
out of the holiday season, than a little bit of extra cheer? because you know what you need right now? you probably need a little
bit of extra holiday cheer. whooo! all right, so our next item,
i'm just gonna, you know what? set needs to be a little bit
more festive, we're just gonna. well, i'm very excited. this is, i don't know if
you can see this on camera, but the glitteriest piece
of packaging i've ever seen. it's like literally-- - [matt] it got everywhere! - i'm already glittery, i'm gonna be in trouble when i go home. let's open this thing. (laughing) merry christmas, guys! thanks! - [matt] that is the best
joke that you have ever told, ever. - (laughs) wait. okay, i see lego, this is good. what is the sluban racing team? - [matt] a lie. - you've got a legitimate real lego here. where did the sluban
racing team come from? i'm going to--
- who do you think got that? - i'm naturally inclined to
think either you or jimmy, because you're both into lego's, but i'm going to throw a curve
ball, i'm gonna say josh. - [matt] that's correct! - what!
- good job, austin! - i got something right
finally, excellent! i'm not gonna build that
whole thing right now, i could probably build this really quick. (gavel banging) - [matt] you need to separate
the rest of the pieces. - [austin] i'm separating them! (clock ticking) i see a gray flat six, i
don't see a gray flat four. - out of curiosity, hold on, wait. it says here, "for ages seven to 14". (clock ticking) - aye, it's looking more like a ferrari. (clock ticking) no, no, no, no, no, no, no! we're just gonna put you right there. we're not gonna do that, unless you guys wanna
be here all day long. (clock ticking) i'm working through this. i'm legitimately working through this. (timer buzzes) (toy roars) so after an hour of building, roboraptor and i have lost our minds. and there is a lego
that is fully completed. shall we continue with
christmas mystery tech? hey, almost caught it! all right, whoo, this is
very thick wrapping paper. (joyful music) this is a cup. wait, no, that's,
there's foam inside this. so, is this like, you're
supposed to sing into the cup, with the microphone? what, huh? wait, wait, hold on, hold on, first of all, i'm guessing
that this is yours, ken. (bell rings)
- yeah. - okay! (buzzer sound)
- it's not. oh, matt is this yours? - [matt] yeah. - okay matt, please,
walk me through exactly, what i'm supposed to do
with the karaoke machine. so, is the idea that you can sing karaoke, without people judging you, because you're singing into a cup? - [matt] correct. so basically what i'm gonna do is, i'm gonna play them the speakers first, and show what it sounds like to everyone. and then, i'm gonna go
and i think i gotta do "forgot about dre", right? - [matt] no. yeah buddy! yeah, all right. - [matt] oh, (bleep) you. so, now that we've completely
and totally defeated, the purpose of the solo cup by putting it on a giant
speaker, let me sing for you. [music] chicka-chicka-chika slim shady [music] [music] hotter than a set of twin babies [music] [music] in a mercedes benz with the windows up [music] [music] when the temp goes up to the mid-80s [music] [music] callin' men ladies [music] okay, this is actually really bad, i'm gonna put the headphones back on now. [music] nowadays, everybody wanna talk [music] [music] like they got somethin' to say [music] [music] but nothin' comes out
when they move their lips [music] [music] just a bunch of gibberish [music] [music] and mother(bleep)s act
like they forgot about dre [music] questionable idea, questionable execution, definite copyright claim, i
think this one's a winner. whoo, all right, so this
is a instruction manual, "dear austin, thank you for
offering to try our first ever, "prototype wakey pal." this is 1000% a wes thing. - [matt] of course. - oh, what is this? i don't like this, this is bad. (nervous laughing) this is wakey pal, someone
clearly spent a lot of time working on this. it's got what looks to
be a bomb on the bottom. do you guys know what this is going to do? - [matt] nope. - no?
- nope. - okay, all right, so
what time is it right now? it says it is 4:11, that
is shockingly accurate, give or take a couple minutes. all right, so, this seems like
an unnecessarily long cable for the wakey pal, let's see what happens. is it gonna explode with confetti? - [matt] maybe. - glitter? - [matt] maybe, we'll see. (loud klaxon wails) (roboraptor falling) and with that, its time for the next item. how dare you try and knock out wakey pal? so, whoo, this got some heft to it. (wrapping paper tears) this is ken's item, i know this is 100% ken's item. this is a robotic camera. a.k.a., for many years now,
ken has wanted to go to japan. he's wanted to live in
japan, and just purely, hire a camera robot to do
all of his work here for him. now, with this, the obsbot,
the auto director ai camera, his wish is about to be fulfilled. why don't we take a look
at what the obsbot can do, and whether or not ken
can actually be replaced, 'cause you know what, sounds
like a great idea to me. "feel the magic of ai camera." oh, i'm about to feel
the magic, all right. so, ken, what exactly is
the point of an ai camera, to do all of your work for you? - [ken] so i can remotely operate from anywhere in the world. - so ken, you got it set up right now, we're supposedly recording on it. so, i'm just gonna walk
around a little bit. i mean, it actually seems-- ken, are you doing anything right now? - no.
- this is all the camera. - [ken] hands-free, hands-free. - okay. so, the verdict, is it
time to replace ken? i think its been time to cancel
ken for awhile, personally, but the thing is, with the obsbot, we actually have the means to do it. look at this, full 360
degree shots, with zero ken. it also beeps a little bit when its not really happy with me. i can see the video
title for this already, "it's finally time to replace ken." i don't know how lighting is
and i certainly don't know, even though this is
supposedly a 4k sensor, i don't really know what
the actual image quality is going to look like. but this is the example of
our future ai overlords, a.k.a., ken's about to be out of a job. how about this, for the rest of the video, we're just going to use
the obsbot instead of ken, like no one touch it, we're
just gonna let it roll, on all the things that i do. so, with my brand new robo-ken enabled, why don't we take a look at the next item? whoo, all right. so, the thing here, is that
now that ken is finally gone, that we finally-- wow, you know what i just realized? wow, it's gonna be really sad around here. like, who am i going to make
fun of for weeb references? like, i don't know where ken is even going to go at this point. oh, that's sad. that's sad. so, why don't we take a look, shall we? so, hang on, wait, so i've
seen matt's gift, ken's gift, josh's gift and wait,
jimmy's the only one left. "how do friendship lamps work?" yeah, that sounds great, all right. "technology for humankind",
all right, well let's, let's see what this is
all about, shall we? what is a friendship lamp? "lights that connect
you with those you love, "no matter where they are in
the world with a simple touch." are these like internet connected lamps, that are going to like, vibrate or flash? all right, so with our
friendship lamps paired, lets see what happens. that's it? whoa. whoa. - i think what this means
is, when i'm in japan, (laughing) i can take this, and
then we can be reunited. so, i'm just sitting here,
robo-ken and i are shooting, and i'm like "wonder how ken's doing. "oh look, he's thinking of me right now." - feeling pink. - thank you very much, for watching this episode of mystery tech. i'm not quite sure what happened, i'm not quite sure how
we got to this point, but you know what i do know? friends are the most
important part of life. treasure yours this holiday season, and to all i bid a good night. (christmas bells)