so i'd like to talk about three infinite series so sums of infinitely many numbers so here's the first one 1 plus 1/2 plus 1/4 plus 1/8 plus blah blah blah. what's that? and the answer is it's 2 this is the problem of achilles and the tortoise achilles is to stadio or whatever the unit of length is in ancient greece from the tortoise well after a while achilles gains on the tortoise one unit, and so the remaining distance is only 1 then after a while achilles gains half of the distance to the tortoise and now the distance to the tortoise is 1/2 after a little while achilles gains another 1/4 of the distance to the tortoise and so on and so on and so on the story according to zeno's paradoxes is that achilles never catches the tortoise? well, of course achilles never catches the tortoise at any of these times but if you just wait a little longer achilles will have caught the tortoise the total length that achilles gains on the tortoise is 2 and that's why this is true now, let's look at 1 plus 1/2 plus 1/3 plus 1/4 plus 1/5 plus 1/6 plus 1/7 plus 1/8 and so on and this never ends. how big is that? what is that what i mean is if i stop after? many many many terms so i can so i'm adding some huge finite list of numbers how big is that and what happens when i add more and more and more of them and the answer is this is infinity why well, let me group the terms. here's the first one here are the next two here are the next for the next eight would end with 1 over 15, and this goes on forever i don't want to mark up my desk well, so what exactly does this mean you give me any number at all 50 trillion and i can stop this series and say ok. i will only go this far i'm adding only a finite number of numbers together, but that sum will be more than d trillion. that's true not only for 50 trillion but for any number you name no matter how big and that's what it means that the sum of the series is infinity so it's blowing up. it's like exactly exactly. we say that the series diverges. so let's look at the first term. well, it's 1. thank you how about these next two terms? well, you know what? this one is bigger than 1/2 each one of these terms is bigger than 1/4 1/2 is bigger than 1/4 1/3 is bigger than 1/4 and there are two terms. so this is bigger than 2/4 which is again 1/2. how about these four terms? they're all bigger than 1/8 and there are 4 of them. so if i add these guys it's bigger than 4 eighths which is 1/2 if i look at the next eight terms, they're all bigger than 1/16 and they're eight of them so the sum is bigger than 8/16 which is 1/2 if i stop far enough this sum will be more than 1/2 plus 1/2 plus 1/2 plus 1/2 plus 1/2 and i can go on as many times as i like accumulating what have until i get to more than 50 trillion. so sooner or later the sum of these numbers will be more than 50 trillion the catch is that i have to go enormous ly far out in order to do it, but let's not worry about that now okay, never mind. just how enormous that's let's leave it there for this sum which has a name. it's called the harmonic series i'd like to explain how to use the harmonic series to stack dominoes well, actually i don't have dominoes in my office, but i have lots of issues of the annals of mathematics. oh, yes i have lots and lots and lots. so we're going to use copies of the annals of mathematics as dominoes let's just take two of them first if i move this one here, it's going to collapse but if i move it so that its center of gravity is let's see if that works i'm being a little conservative the center of gravity of this guy is sitting over that guy and so it does not collapse now let's take these two and put them very carefully on top of the third one taking care that the center of gravity of this whole guy is above this issue of the annals of mathematics and therefore looks precarious ok there. it does not collapse and now perhaps i could put these three on top of a fourth and if i succeed in doing that i will not tempt fate i will just declare that that we have succeeded whoop. so, let's see. how are we doing? it hasn't collapsed mm-hmm looks a little flaky it hasn't collapsed how far can we make this guy stick out suppose that i have all those copies of the annals of mathematics or perhaps all the copies of the annals of mathematics ever printed from the beginning of time to the end of time wonder how many that will be anyway, we have all of them and we stack them up and we demand that the pile cannot collapse well, this is merely paper. so sooner or later if there's too much of a load it will be crushed but nevermind these are imaginary rigid domino's can we ever make the top guy so far out that it is not resting on the bottom guy at all that this edge is not lying at all over this book, but has come out farther exactly and the answer is oh, yes. in fact, you can make this this pile come out in that direction as far as you like because if you look at it but if you have any copies of the annals of mathematics and you do an absolutely perfect job in an ideal world the distances that they are slid out from one another are in the proportions 1/2 1/2 to 1/3 to 1/4 to 1/5 to 1/6 and so on to one over n if there are n copies of the annals of math or maybe n plus one copies of the annals of math and so the fact that the harmonic series diverges tells you that you can eventually make this pile come out as far as you like because 1 plus 1/2 plus 1/3 plus 1/4 plus and so on if you stop way way far out after a gazillion for a large enough value of a gazillion will be more than 50 billion and therefore this distance out. there will be more than 50 billion times the height of the annals of mathematics all right, let's put the annals of mathematics aside. now. let's do the same thing to the series 1 plus 1/2 squared plus 1/3 squared plus 1/4 squared plus let me keep going squared ok, blah blah. now, let's try to do the same thing. we're gonna take the first term. all right, so that's 1 thank you. let's look at the next two terms now this is 1 over 1/2 squared this is smaller than 1 over 1/2 squared so we've got two terms and they're each smaller than 1/2 times 1/2. so that's smaller than 2 times 1/2 times 1/2 that's smaller than 1/2. let's look at the next four terms. here. they are they're all 1 over 4 squared or smaller so they are smaller than 1/4 squared plus 1/4 squared plus 1/4 squared plus 1/4 squared there are 4 terms there. and so these guys together are no bigger than 4 times 1/4 squared that's 4 times 1/4 times 1/4 and that's 1/4 so this whole thing is less than 1/4 if i looked at the next eight terms and played the same game i would find that that's less than 1/8 and so on so now look if i go out to a gazillion terms i'm guaranteed that what i've got is less than 1 plus 1/2 plus 1/4 plus 1/8 plus 1/16 plus something-or-other. i stopped at 1 over some power of 2. hey, wait a minute remember first result this series never be the sum of these guys is never more than 2 the sum of all these numbers is 2 and the sum of the first gazillion numbers will be slightly less than 2 so therefore i'm guaranteed that no matter how many terms of this guy i take it will be less than 2 so it doesn't run off to infinity the the harmonic series does and in fact, you could wonder what is the value of the sum of all of these terms and that was a famous unsolved problem of the'th century and the answer is pi squared over 6 pi creeps in where you would least expect it i was exactly here this place and i was having an interview than the phone rings hello and the voice was saying hello, this is las navas from budapest