2024 marks thirty years since the opening 
of the channel tunnel, or chunnel,   or as they say in calais, le tunnel sous la 
manche. this underground/undersea railroad   tunnel connects england with france, crossing 
the narrowest, but still not that narrow,   section of the english channel. the tunnel 
allows passengers (and, in many cases,   their cars, too) to cross the channel in just 
over half an hour at speeds as high as 99 mph!   while there are longer tunnels out there, this 
is the longest underwater tunnel in the world. when it was proposed in the mid-1980s, it 
was set to be the most expensive construction   project ever, and like so many mega projects, it 
went way over budget and opened a year late. but   unlike many megaprojects, this one was funded 
entirely by private investors. that's a good   thing, too, because it hasn't exactly been a 
mega-financial success. the bbc once said that,   "depending on your viewpoint, the channel 
tunnel is one of the greatest engineering   feats of the 20th century or one of the 
most expensive white elephants in history." elephant or not, the tunnel is legendary among 
engineers, and in light of the 30th anniversary,   i thought it was about time i dug into it. it 
is a challenging endeavor to put any tunnel   below the sea, and this monumental project 
faced some monumental hurdles. from complex   cretaceous geology, to managing air pressure, 
water pressure, and even financial pressure,   there are so many technical details i think are 
so interesting about this project. i'm grady,   and this is practical engineering; today, 
we're talking about the channel tunnel. [musical transition] the idea of building a permanent connection 
between england and france across the english   channel isn't a new one. an engineer way back in 
1802 came up with a plan for a horse-and-buggy   tunnel intended to be lit with oil lamps, 
featuring an artificial island midway for   horse changes, and some pretty scary ventilation 
chimneys. needless to say, that idea didn't get   there. in'82, another tunnel proposed got 
a bit further, a few kilometers further,   in fact. several thousand meters of tunnel 
were actually dug before political pressures   regarding the fear of future potential 
invasions killed the project. by the 1970s,   another attempt to build a tunnel broke 
ground, but that project fell through,   too. it wasn't until the mid-1980s that the 
proposal for the tunnel as we know it was   accepted and work began in earnest. a handful of 
other proposals were also considered at the time,   including an even more ambitious project featuring 
an absolutely enormous suspension bridge 70 meters   above the sea using an exotic fiber called parafil 
and carrying traffic within huge concrete tubes. unsurprisingly, this monster bridge did not get 
selected. the plan for an underground electric   railroad connection won, and work began on 
the channel tunnel. but it's not so much a   tunnel as three separate tunnels with a variety 
of connections between them. there are two main   railway tunnels, each with one-way service across 
the channel, and a third service tunnel that runs   between the two. the three service tunnels 
each began on either side of the channel and,   pretty impressively, met in the middle, deep 
under the sea bed, with an offset of less than   two feet. they were even able to incorporate some 
of the work of those previous failed attempts. the accuracy of this dig is even more 
impressive when you consider that the   tunnels aren't level or straight. the geology 
of the english channel is, putting it mildly,   a bit complicated. there are layers of 
different kinds of sedimentary formations,   and the project was designed to follow 
the path of a layer known as chalk marl,   although some geologists call it marly chalk. this 
layer was less permeable and had fewer cracks and   fissures than the overlying material. but that 
doesn't mean there were no fissures. the marly   chalk was the best option for tunneling under 
the channel, but it was still far from simple. in some ways, those past proposals and attempts 
to build the channel tunnel failed because the   technology just hadn't reached the level to make 
a project like this feasible. but by the 1980s,   one piece of equipment had made huge strides 
in efficiency and safety. with the creative   flair you'd expect from any civil engineer, 
they are aptly named: tunnel boring machines, or tbms.  drilling is just one of the multitude 
of jobs that happen in a tunneling operation,   and tbms manage to combine and accomplish them all 
in one massive and incredibly complicated machine. there are lots of different styles and sizes of 
tbm, and the channel tunnel used a total of eleven   separate machines to finish the job. most of us 
are familiar with the process of drilling a hole,   but doing it through soil and rock, underwater, 
across a vast distance, as you can imagine,   adds some nuance to the process. for one, 
there are no drill bits that extend for miles,   so the whole machine has to fit inside the tunnel 
it's creating. for two, there are no big hands to   push at the back of the drill. instead, tunnel 
boring machines grip onto the tunnel walls and   use hydraulic cylinders to provide the thrust 
forces needed to advance forward. for three,   except in the most ideal circumstances, the hole 
of a tunnel is always trying to collapse. tbms use   a cylindrical shield at the front to support the 
walls of the tunnel until they can be permanently   lined with cast iron or concrete and sealed 
with grout for strength and water resistance. also, there's pressure. the soil, rock, and water 
deep below the ground are under immense pressure.   when you try to excavate, especially in 
softer soils like were experienced on   the french side of the project, they have the 
potential to collapse or flood the operation.   many of the tbms used in the channel tunnel 
project were called earth pressure balance   machines. here's how they work: the rotating 
cutter head chews through rock and soil,   allowing it to pass through openings into 
a chamber behind where it is mixed into a   pliable paste. as the machine moves forward, 
the pressure in the excavation chamber builds   to match the earth and water pressure on the 
tunnel face, supporting it against collapse   and preventing uncontrolled inflow of water. 
a screw conveyor creates a controllable plug.   its speed is carefully adjusted to remove only 
enough of the cuttings to maintain this balance. even that wasn't enough in some cases. water 
flowing into the excavated tunnel was a   constant problem, making it difficult to work and 
damaging equipment. in many cases, the crews would   inject grout into the rock ahead of the machine, 
effectively making it stronger before drilling   through it. imagine trying to drill a hole through 
a big bag of rocks and water. the drill bit would   be easier to push, but it sure would make a mess. 
grouting the rock ahead of the operation made it   more physically challenging to drill through, 
but it simplified the process considerably.   there are so many examples like that, where 
tunneling knowledge and experience improved   drastically, just from running into problems 
and using trial-and-error to solve each one. most tbms come with a train of equipment to 
support and power the operation behind the   cutter head and lining systems. each machine 
is basically its own factory with a workshop,   cranes, transportation facilities, and more. and 
like any factory, you need a way to get materials   and people in and out. workers, lining segments, 
equipment, and materials travel to the machine   from the entrance of the tunnel, often over miles 
on a temporary railway. and all the excavated   spoils have to travel the same distance, often on 
conveyor belts, in the opposite direction. on the   french side of the channel tunnel, the spoils 
were pumped as a wet slurry to a nearby area   known as fond pignon. on the british side, the 
spoil was used to construct an extra 111 acres   of new england. well, not new england, but a 
portion of england that was new. this is now   the site of the uk side's cooling plant, but 
also a new nature reserve called samphire hoe. keeping the tunnel headed in the right 
direction was another challenge. for one,   they needed to stay in the right geological 
layer to reduce the challenges of drilling   through unstable ground. of course, engineers had 
mapped the geology ahead of time but only using   core samples from the surface. those cores only 
provide a thin, tiny snapshot of what lies below,   like trying to navigate a car by looking 
through a paper towel tube. and for two,   they were drilling from both directions with 
the goal of meeting in the middle. the tbms   were guided with a sophisticated laser system 
to keep them on track as they tunneled through   the marly chalk. without a direct line of sight 
to the surface, surveyors had to set benchmarks   along the tunnels with extreme accuracy. any 
error in the measurements would propagate,   since there was no way to "close the loop." 
crews also regularly took core samples,   horizontally and vertically, along the way to 
keep the tunnel within the target geologic layer. one of the ingenious parts of the channel tunnel 
design was for the service tunnel to lead the   rest of construction. in a way, this tunnel was 
the pilot. it was a way to explore the geology   with less risk, encountering the challenges 
on a smaller scale before making progress on   the main tunnels. it was also a way to confirm 
the guidance and ensure that the tunnels were   aligned properly when they met in the middle, 
which, to the relief of many, they famously did in 1990.  for the first time since the ice 
age, there was a dry-land route from mainland   europe to great britain. several of the tbms were 
left and buried underground after they finished,   since the cost of getting them out was too high. 
now they serve as an electrical earth connection connecting a hole in the ground all the way 
across the channel is only part of the story,   though. many more engineering challenges lay 
ahead. as i mentioned, there are three tunnels:   two large, one-way rail tunnels with diameters 
of 7.6 meters (nearly 25 feet) with a 4.8 meter   (16 ft) diameter service tunnel running between 
them. but that's not all the tunnels. there are   two enormous crossover caverns where the two 
rail tunnels merge. during normal operation,   gigantic steel doors keep the two sides 
separated, but they can be opened,   allowing trains to cross over from one 
tunnel to the other. this means the   tunnel can shut down large sections without 
the need to fully suspend train service. the service tunnel connects both rail tunnels 
every 375 meters with cross passages. these   allow for emergency escape from the rail 
tunnels should an accident or fire occur.   and they've been used for evacuation 
in several cases in the past 30 years,   including fires in 1996 and 2008. the 
air pressure in the service tunnel is   higher than that in the rail tunnels so 
smoke can't travel in. there are special,   rubber-tired vehicles that are kind of like 
miniature trains, called the service tunnel   transport system or stts. of course, passenger 
egress is possible with these vehicles, but they   are primarily, and ideally, used for shuttling 
staff to various locations along the tunnel. another engineering problem is created 
by the nature of trains passing through   very long tunnels. on ordinary outdoor tracks, 
the air in front of a train gets pushed aside   fairly effortlessly by the leading face of the 
locomotive. in a tunnel, the train acts kind of   like a big piston, driving a pressurized slug of 
air in front of it the whole way down the tube.   the rapid fluctuations in air pressure create 
drag on the trains, affect passenger comfort,   and mess with ventilation systems. 
to solve this piston effect problem,   a series of 2-meter-wide connections called 
piston relief ducts allow for controlled   passage of air from one tunnel into the 
other, giving that chunk of air a place   to go instead of just riding in front of the 
locomotive the whole way. a funny part of the   engineering of the tunnel was investigating 
whether this long tube with regularly spaced   holes would function like a big flute. 
thankfully, it didn't end up being an issue. getting fresh air along the tunnels is another 
concern. and here again, the service tunnel shows   its value. in addition to providing access to 
maintenance vehicles and an evacuation route,   it also acts as a duct, delivering fresh air along 
the length of the main tunnels, allowing the stale   air to discharge at the tunnel entrances. there 
is also a supplementary ventilation system that   can pump air directly into the rail tunnels in 
the event a passenger train becomes immobilized. along with ventilation, the tunnel also has 
to manage heat. the trains use electricity   for traction, but some of that energy is lost 
as heat through inefficiencies and friction. in   ordinary railroad situations, this would be 
no big deal since the atmosphere can easily   dissipate this heat. but engineers estimated 
that the trains would raise the temperature   in the tunnel to 122 f or 50 celsius. so, 
the project also required europe's largest   cooling system. enormous chilling plants 
were built on either side of the tunnel,   and miles and miles of pipes carry chilled 
water throughout the tunnel at a cool 95 f,   35 c. air conditioners on the trains bring this 
down to something more bearable for passenger   comfort, rejecting more heat that has to 
be managed by the tunnel cooling system. of course, being a rail link between the two 
countries, the channel tunnel is flanked by   enormous rail terminals on either side, one 
in folkestone, uk, and an even larger terminal   located near calais. there's a shuttle that 
allows passengers to bring their vehicles along   with them, effectively connecting the highways of 
france and the uk at the terminals. there's also a   passenger train service that crosses through the 
tunnel, and with the addition of high speed 1,   or hs1, in 2007, it is now possible to take 
the train from london to paris and beyond. the ordinary shuttle trains run on a loop, 
meaning that at each terminal, there is a track   that goes from the exit of one tunnel, loops 
around, and then enters the other tunnel. in   order to avoid uneven wheel wear from always 
turning in one direction like a nascar race,   the french side features a crossover, which makes 
the whole tunnel loop into a huge figure 8. people   aren't the only cargo that passes through the 
channel tunnel, though. freight makes its way   as well. there are services for heavy trucks 
that get placed on trains, and there's even   a club car for the drivers to hang out in during 
passage under the channel. full-on freight trains   also pass through the tunnel, with service 
continuing past the terminals on either side. clearly, the channel tunnel is a triumph of 
modern civil engineering, and engineers around   the world study its design and construction 
today. it wasn't all something to celebrate,   though. like so many mega projects, there was 
a human cost to building the tunnel. more than   ten workers perished in the construction of the 
project. of course, it is absolutely unacceptable   to trade safety for construction speed, even on 
the biggest construction project in the world, and   after multiple lawsuits and investigations, things 
improved, and the remainder of the project saw   far fewer safety incidents. the tunnel has also 
played a complicated role in illegal immigration   and asylum-seeking in the uk, including 
some tragic incidents involving migrants. the project also went significantly over budget, 
which is saying something since it was already   slated to be the most expensive construction 
project in history. i have a whole video that   talks about some of the reasons projects like 
this end up costing more than we expect, so i   won't go into all those details here. the channel 
tunnel is unique in that it was privately funded,   unlike most large infrastructure projects of 
its kind. the vast majority of the financial   burden and risk was taken by banks and individual 
investors, and there was even a public offering.   there aren't many infrastructure projects 
that you can buy a share of. over time,   the tunnel has slowly turned a profit, but 
it's been less lucrative than predicted.   while it may be the most epic way to cross 
the english channel, it certainly isn't the   only way. discount airlines in europe are far 
more prevalent than they were in the 1980s,   and in many cases, it is more desirable 
and economical for travelers to just fly,   especially if their ultimate destination is not 
the south coast of england or the north coast of   france. plus, for thousands of years, people have 
crossed the channel by sea. ferries are still a   totally viable and economically competitive 
way to cross. it might seem a little crazy to   choose a ferry over the sense of wonder and 
delight that comes with passage through one   of the most incredible tunnels in history, 
but maybe some people just like boat rides. a lot has changed over the 30 years 
since the channel tunnel was completed.   construction technologies, of course, 
but transportation infrastructure as a   whole has evolved as well. there's probably a 
lot we would change about the channel tunnel   if we could go back to those days when the 
project was first conceived, but actually,   many would argue that perhaps it shouldn't have 
been built at all. knowing what we know now about   the complexity of the job in a world of cheap 
flights, ferries, dynamic international relations,   and 21st-century financial markets, it 
might be a bit harder to show that the   costs would be outweighed by the benefits. but that's part of the rub with megaprojects: it's impossible to separate their 
wide-ranging impacts on the world,   and the benefits they provide compared to 
an alternative where they don't exist. just   last year, construction finished on a 
high-voltage electric interconnection   between the uk and france through the tunnel, a 
project that may not have even been considered   if the tunnel wasn't already there. it's easy to 
criticize the optimism required to justify huge,   expensive projects in the face of an uncertain 
future, but projects like the channel tunnel   create opportunities and benefits that permeate 
society in unique and often intangible ways. i'm an engineer, so i see the achievement through 
a technical lens. it is, without a doubt, one of   the most spectacular engineering feats of history. 
for me, that's worth celebrating in its own right,   from the intensive geological research leading up 
to the project, to the massive tbms eating through   so many miles of marl, from the creative 
ventilation and piston relief systems,   to the unsung hero of the service tunnel. 
whether or not it was a strictly practical idea,   i'm glad it's there. i haven't had the opportunity 
to travel from folkestone to calais just yet,   but if and when i do, i know how i'm 
getting there, and it's not a ferry. one thing that's kind of hard to keep in 
mind about the channel tunnel is that,   when it was built, there was almost nothing 
like it in the world. there just aren't that   many tunnels this long in the world, and most 
of them were built after the chunnel. there   were no 30-mile-long-undersea-tunnel experts. 
in many ways, it was an experiment, and for me,   that's one of the coolest parts of engineering: 
using our understanding of math and physics to   execute an idea that's never been tried before. 
here's another good example of that: launching   a satellite by slinging it into space. could it 
work? today's sponsor brilliant collaborated with   my friend brian of the real engineering channel to 
build a whole course just to answer that question.   from centripetal motion to the heat and strength 
requirements of the materials, it goes through a   lot of the engineering challenges of an idea 
like this, and shows you how to solve them. i love learning. i think one of the most 
important things you can do in life is   to always be broadening your horizons. and 
for me, that's not just learning facts. it's   trying to understand topics more deeply. 
to do that, you have to really dive in,   try things out, fail, and try again. it's 
learning by doing, and that's why i love   brilliant. i think it's the best way to get 
started learning math, physics, data science,   and programming interactively. there are thousands 
of lessons from basics to advanced topics,   and they're always adding new ones every month so 
there's always something fresh to learn. you can   try this yourself, completely free for 30 days at 
brilliant.org/practicalengineering. give a shot   and see if there's not something on there that 
makes you think, "i've always wanted to understand   that." the link is in the description. thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think.