okay, yeah, i've got another big number for you 
brady: 1.76 times 10 to the 67. okay so let me   ask you a question, can you think of a number- 
you know, completely random number that no one   in the history of humanity has ever thought of? 
- (brady: a number no- i think i could do that quite easily.)   yeah? okay, i agree. so what would you have to 
do? what would- how would you do it?  (well i would just have to make it big and i would just- i 
would choose like, you know, nine or ten digits and) (randomly choose those digits.)
- okay. so i think nine 
or ten digits is probably a bit on the low side, i think. so this is what this number is all about. 
it's about thinking of numbers that no one in the   whole history of humanity has ever thought of. this 
is an estimate that i've come up with based on   stuff that i've seen on the internet. so basically 
if you go to a number that is bigger than this,   so pick a random number that's bigger than this 
value, then there's a 99% chance that that number   has never been thought of by anybody ever in the history of humanity.
- (quick interjection before you)  (start: you told me nine to ten digits was a bit on 
the low side. if i choose a random ten digit number,)  (random, who on earth will have thought of that in the history of humanity?)
- so there will be   some probability that- so okay, so i need 
to justify this clearly, right it's where this   comes from and i think it's going to be something 
that's going to spark a lot of debate, we could   argue about whether this is a good estimate 
or not. i think one thing's for sure, if you   if you think you can get away with a nine digit 
number and i'm saying, well try a 68 digit number,   then that's definitely going to be a good ballpark. 
so we're probably in safe territory going this big-  (i think you're high-balling it, but anyway.)
- okay let's see then, let's see where does it come  from? where's the maths come from behind this? snd we 
can argue all day about the assumptions that have   gone into it. so the first thing you've got to 
ask is, is how many numbers has humanity thought   of? what's the sample size of numbers that humanity 
have thought of? and this is probably one bit where   people are going to really argue about- about my 
assumptions but i'm going to make them and that's   it, you could argue. 
- (how are we defining 'thought of' by the way? just-) here we go, we've already started. well let's just- okay so i'm going to say, my 
assumption is going to be that a typical person   thinks of a number every two minutes of their 
waking life. now that's probably an overestimate,   but i want to overestimate- well we can redo it 
again different number if you want. but let me   go let me go for for that right? i think i want to 
overestimate because i want to be guaranteed right   that i'm in a good place. so let me make that my 
assumption. okay so typical person, life expectancy   today i think is 73.2 years. how many days is that? 
well let's just multiply that by 365 and a quarter.  how many hours? that's 24 hours; but we're 
already awake for around two thirds of the day   so i need to factor in two thirds. and i'm saying- 
so this is the number of hours that a typical   person would be awake for in their lifetime, and 
if we say that they think of a number every two   minutes then i should multiply by 30. now clearly 
i know that's probably a bit of an overestimate, people aren't thinking about numbers as much 
when they're young, numberphile viewers will   probably think about way more numbers 
obviously. so we've got to do something   so this is this is the assumption i'm going to go with. 
- (unique numbers? or are we coming to that?)   no, i'm not suggesting everybody's thinking of 
different numbers, we're all- most of us are   all going to think about lots of low numbers right?
i'm a liverpool fan and this is all i'm thinking   about the moment is the number four, because i 
think we're gonna win four trophies this season.   (i thought you were going to think of four because 
liverpool just beat man united four-nil.)   well, there's also that, there's also that. lots of fours 
going off in liverpool at the moment. anyway so so   let's just say this is the number of numbers 
that a typical person will think of in their   lifetime - obviously they're not all going to be 
different numbers okay. this is about, i think about   12.8 million. okay so now i need to multiply 
it by the number of people that have lived.   so a bit of googling, you see what a recent 
estimate for the number of people that have ever   lived is: it's about 117 billion. which i thought 
was quite interesting actually because i've always   heard this- you hear people say, 'oh there's more 
people alive today than have ever lived' - that's   not true. it's about 117 billion 
is the most recent ballpark figure. so i'm just   going to multiply this by 117 billion. okay, now 
i know what people are going to say now is that   wasn't life expectancy less in the past? yes it 
was, of course in the iron age people only lived   until they're about 20 or so-
- (they probably were thinking about numbers less.)
- probably they were  thinking a bit less, they certainly weren't thinking 
about graham's number. so this is the number. so   i'm going to go with this, so again it's probably 
an overestimate for that reason. so what is this   number? so this i'm going to call it n. and as a 
ballpark figure this is about one and a half times   ten to the eighteen which is a quintillion, actually 
it's one and a half quintillion i think. so what   is? this this is the number of numbers, our estimate, 
probably an overestimate, the number of numbers   that humanity has ever thought of in the whole of human history.
- (but there's lots of duplicates like-)   totally.
- (like a lot of those will be 1.)
- yeah yeah yeah, completely, yeah yeah, vast majority is   going to be a significant proportion is going to 
be 1. okay so we have to now think about how are   we going to guarantee ourselves a number that no 
one's ever thought of. so what we're going to say   is because- this is the mathematical problem we're 
interested in. we've got a sample size of size   one and a half quintillion, okay. now we could say 
right what's the probability that all of that   sample is less than 10? it's going to be something 
tiny right? it's going to be really negligible, a random sample that big is going to be all less 
than 10. you say, what's the probability that   all of that sample is less than a trillion, okay? 
it's still going to be a very low probability. so   there's a 99% probability that a sample this big 
will be less than this. 
- (what mathematical tool did)   (you use to come to that?)
- okay let me show you. so 
we first have to think about the distribution of   numbers, okay, that how often they appear, you know, 
in human thought i suppose right okay. so let's   take some numbers n and let's think about the 
probability distribution of those numbers. clearly   small numbers are going to appear much more 
regularly than large numbers, this is intuitively   obvious.
- (because of like football scores and house numbers and-)
- yeah, just your small numbers just crop   up in everyday life. also you know also we need 
to put aside sort of slight anomalous things like   years are going to appear more regularly, 
powers of 10 appear more more than their sort   of nearest neighbours and so on and so forth. so 
we're really interested in sort of random numbers   and looking over it on on sort of trends. i saw 
somewhere that the number 666 appears much more   regularly than those numbers around it as you i expect.
so there's all that going on but i want to sort of   sweep that under the carpet, that's not what we're 
interested in, we're interested in general trends.  so it's clear that it's going to fall with the 
size of the number. question is how fast does it   fall? now you might think - i know you've done videos 
about benford's law before - the fall off goes   like 1 over n. i'm not going to use that and the 
reason is is - well there's two reasons actually - if   i assume it's 1 over n and this this i can't 
normalise this probability, these probabilities   can't be added to 1, they they always hit 
infinity. so so i don't want that. so it's clear to   me that at some stage with very big numbers it's got 
to drop off more quickly. and i did find there is a   paper from 2005 i think it is where they look 
at the distribution of numbers on the internet,   random numbers, and they also look at powers of 
10 but they also look at sort of random numbers.  and what they find is the falloff is going like 
1 over n to the 1.3. that's actually good, that's   faster than benford's law so it's dropping quicker, 
it means we can normalise this as well. so i want   to think about sets of numbers that aren't as big 
as a certain value okay. so this is telling me the   distribution of all the numbers, but what i need 
to think about now is what's called the cumulative   distribution. so i want to take a given number n 
star say, and i want to ask, what is the probability   that a random number is less than this n star? 
n star might be 10, it might be 20, it might be a   billion - whatever. what's the probability that 
a randomly picked number is less than that   value? well how do i calculate that? well i just 
have to sum up all these probabilities. so that   corresponds to the area under the curve, and i can 
figure out what that is with a bit of calculus. we   don't need to do it now but it's going to be- the 
answer i get is 1 minus n star to the minus 0.3.   this tells us the probability that a randomly 
chosen number is less than n star, okay. now what's   the probability that a randomly chosen number is 
less than infinity? well it should be 1 right?  yeah? so what if i put n equals 1- n equals 
infinity in there, i get 1, so that makes sense.   what's the probability that a randomly chosen 
number is less than 1? well it can't be less   than 1, we're choosing- we're only interested in sort 
of you know positive whole numbers. so i put n   equals 1 in there and i get zero. so you can see 
this sort of makes sense, it's kind of working for   those cases. the probability that a random number 
is less than 10 is about a half in this. okay but   this is only one number, right, we've got one and 
a half quintillion of these guys to worry about,   okay. so let's think about our one and a half 
quintillion. so let's ask a slightly simpler   question first: what if i take one and a half 
quintillion numbers and i demanded they're all   less than 10. what's the probability that 
they're all less than 10? very unlikely,   i've just told you that one number has a basically 
a 50/50 chance that's less than 10, so that's 0.5.   if i'm interested in n numbers, or one and a half 
quintillion numbers being less than 10, i need   to basically take that to the power of what one 
and a half quintillion which is essentially zero.  okay? right, so this is no good. so obviously the 
answer is not 10, we're not thinking about 10.   if i want to generalise this now to sort of any 
number, n star, then i just plug in this guy. so   this is basically the probability that all of our 
one and a half quintillion numbers are less than   n star. okay, so you've got huge one and a half 
quintillion numbers, what's the probability they're   less than some n-star, whatever n-star, is? it's 
that. so now we're ready to answer our question.   let me draw this as a function of n-star. well it 
looks something like this, this is asymptote going   towards 1 - okay again this makes sense because 
what this is telling you if i take n star very big,   then it's saying that the probability that my- really really- let's take n star to graham's   number. the probability that my qu- you know one and 
a half quintillion numbers are all less than graham's   number is essentially 1, it's very likely. if i 
take n star very small the probability that my   one and a half quintillion numbers are 
all less than n star, and that's a really   small number, it's essentially going 
to be zero. so it sort of makes sense.  we're interested in the point where this 
crosses the 99% threshold. we can calculate   what that is, we just have to solve an 
equation, the equation we solve is this: okay, and if we solve that then we get that x is 
1.76 times 10 to the 67. so let's think about what   this is telling us; this tells us that if we have 
a set of numbers, random numbers, of one and a half   quintillion, which is the amount of numbers 
we think humanity has picked, then there's a 99%   chance they're all going to be less than this 
okay? conversely if you go beyond that there's   a 99% chance you're going to find a number that nobody's ever thought of. 
- (okay.)
- you seem skeptical.  (i'm not skeptical of the mathematics, but i think 
your assumptions are so wrong. let's look at) (numbers that have 66 digits, right? so 
down- one down from where you are.)   (if you choose all the numbers 
in that bracket, i think there's) (probably maybe one human or 10 humans that have 
ever thought of the numbers of a 66-digit number?)   (i don't know, a thousand humans maybe have 
thought of a 66-digit number in their life?)   i guess- 
- (have you ever thought of a 66 digit number?)
- i'm always thinking of 66 digit numbers.  i don't know, i mean a 99% probability; i know 
what you're saying, it's- i don't know,  that's   what the maths comes out as. okay can we go up can 
we do a bit more? can we think about the future of   humanity? okay, all right. so let's 
think of the future of humanity- i said this would   be controversial right. so future of humanity now.
so now we have to ask the question, how many people   are going to live? so we now want to think about 
numbers that nobody will ever think of, or ever use;  maybe maybe a better way to ever use, maybe we 
should talk about numbers that people are using.    so maybe you're using numbers at once every, 
you know, 30 minutes that could be very big. (and you don't have to think of a number to use it do you?) 
- maybe that's how we should talk talk about this.  (now you realise!) 
- okay fine. 
- (all right so- so have i used- am i using a 66 digit number?) (what's an example of me using a really big number 
but not thinking of it?)
- i mean when you're doing it   on a computer somewhere and messing around 
that kind of thing. so we're going to do future,  okay, so so we have to ask how many people are 
going to live? okay so so now now this is another   debate. so this again is controversial, okay, so 
there's something called the doomsday argument   which is not without its controversy, has its 
critics. it goes back to brandon carter, cosmologist   in the 1970s. he was thinking about things like the 
anthropic principle. the general argument is that   we don't have a special place in human history, 
okay, there's nothing special about where we are.   so what you could say from that is, is that there's 
a 99% chance that we're in the last 99% of people.   okay? that seems reasonable. okay, that means there's 
a 99% chance that we're past the 1% point. okay, so the 1% point is- so it 
means there's a 99% chance that 117 billion   is past the 1% point. okay? so that 
means there's a 99% chance that there's no more   than 100 times 117 billion. so that puts the total 
number of humans that will ever live at less than   117 times 10 to the 11. so this is based on these 
doomsday arguments and us not being special and   blah blah blah, this would be enough a limit 
on the number of humans that will ever live.   and 99% confidence. it's quite scary because this 
actually brings the ends of the world quite quite   rapid, it's like within- i'd have to check it, but 
it's something like 10 to 100,000 years and then   it's all gone. so if you redo all this analysis 
again then you get that 8.2 times 10 to the 73.   so it's basically saying if you choose a 74 digit 
number no one ever, either past future or present,   in the history of humanity will think of that 
number or use that number. 
- (if i choose a 74 digit) (number right now, that's like potentially my 
number forever, no one else will ever have it.) i think so, if you believe a lot of these assumptions 
that got into this which might be dubious. although   we're saying this is probably- you know, i think we 
can probably agree that these are probably over   estimates. if anything these are probably over 
estimates, we could probably bring this down quite   quite considerably right.
- (so if anyone watching this chooses a 74-digit number randomly) (it's probably theirs forever.)
- i think so, i think so, and this is- i mean i've been   really conservative in these assumptions 
and i think you agree with that because   you're like- if i think of a 12-digit number 
like, no one's ever thought of that before.   right? that's what you think right? and so 
so i'm coming up with much bigger numbers   and really conservative assumptions, so yeah i'd 
agree. i reckon if you think of a 74-digit number, totally random; don't don't do 1 with 73 zeroes 
after it. if you do something a bit more exotic   then yeah i don't think anybody's ever going 
to think of that, that's just yours forever mate. 
- (nice.) if you enjoy musing about all this big 
number stuff you're sure to love tony's new   book called 'fantastic numbers and where to find 
them, a cosmic quest from zero to infinity.' i'll   include an order link in the video description. 
reading the book is like a conversation with tony.   and if you love learning, check out brilliant, 
today's episode sponsor. all the courses on   brilliant are designed to be interactive, move 
things around yourself, get an intuition by being   hands-on. there's mathematics, physics, astronomy, 
chemistry, computer science - and of course my   personal favourite, the daily challenges. and 
there's new stuff being added all the time.   no matter your age or learning level this is going 
to improve your life. it's a bit like the gym but   for your brain. go to brilliant.org/numberphile 
to check them out, that /numberphile will also bag you 20% off a premium subscription. 
if you're already a subscriber, brilliant is   also a great gift for other people in your life.
our thanks to them for supporting this episode.