- this is the lenovo yoga pro 7. whenever i make a laptop video, i like to ask a simple question. who is this for? it literally refines
a lot of the criticism that i might have for a system, because what might make
a thin and light laptop perfect for one person might make it a complete
disaster for someone else. so, when lenovo and amd reached out to sponsor a video on this, the yoga pro 7, the
answer was pretty clear. it is designed for creators, whether you're working on your portfolio or working on memes. and that means that the
priorities are different. i want battery life, but
i also want something at least somewhat portable. i want a big, bright
color accurate screen. and most above all, i
wanna see performance. i need it to be able to handle
video and photo editing, and maybe a little bit
of gaming on the side. this is mean to deliver a
little bit more firepower thanks to the fact that it is using the amd ryzen 8040 series processors which specifically have not
only have rdna 3 graphics but also ryzen ai. and there's a lot to talk about there, but first let's actually
open it up and take a look. all right, so we have ourselves
a 140 watt usb-c charger. so, this device does come
optionally with an rtx 3050 or you can get it with
integrated graphics. honestly, for a device like this, i would actually probably lean toward the integrated graphics
option because i will tell you the rdna 3 gpu inside is quite potent. now we have the device itself. excessive use may cause
damage to your vision. thank you. i appreciate that. excessive use of your any screen will cause damage to your vision. except, i've been told,
that excessive watching of the austin evans channel only makes you more attractive. i don't have an actual
statistic on that, but i mean, i've been watching my videos for years, look what happened to me. does look surprisingly thin and light. crack it open and see. all right, so, we take this off, and we've got ourselves the yoga pro 7. and also, i'll immediately tell
you, it has a matte display. you can see that makes a big difference. so this is using one of
their puresight pro panels. let's fire it up, shall we? the way that they designed this is that it sort of tapers quite heavily from the side to the bottom. it feels really nice in the hand. it makes it feel significantly
thinner than it actually is. it's got the full lie flat hinge. this is neat. lenovo is the biggest pc
manufacturer in the world. they have a number of lines. obviously, thinkpad is a
tremendously successful brand, but that's much more sort of
business, corporate oriented. legion and loq are much
more on the gaming side, but yoga, yoga is meant to be the, not the laptop for everyone, but the laptop for someone who wants to be a bit
more creative, you know? like, they have all these stats about how the percentage
of people who buy yogas and then create content
with them, it's quite high. and so, i think they
make a lot of decisions to make that content creation better. so having spent a little bit of time editing with the yoga pro 7i,
i have some initial thoughts. first and foremost, it is incredibly cool that every 2024 yoga comes
with two months for free of adobe creative cloud. even if you're already
a paying subscriber, it would just be added on. that is a big win. now obviously you can use premiere, photoshop, the whole thing. and editing this short, which mind you, it's only 30 something seconds long, but it is a full 4k video, this handles it with
absolutely no problem at all. the nice thing is i can pretty much do my full workflow on this system, including switching over
to something like capcut where i can use some lovely effects to get exactly the beautiful
cinema quality images that i am accustomed to. and that i think just kind of goes to show more so of what these
systems are capable of now. you know, with ryzen ai on board, not only can you use things
like image generation, and believe me when i say, 2024 is gonna be a year
where that npu being on board is going to be very helpful
for a lot of features that are coming down the road. but on top of that you
have the rdna graphics, you have the ryzen cpu core. you also have the rtx 3050 on board. there's really sort of nothing
that you're missing here. now, yes, if you're really trying to crush extended length 4k videos
and prores and raw, and all that kind of stuff, that's probably gonna be
a little outside the scope of what you're expecting to do on this thin and light laptop. but what you do have is
enough performance for, i would say the vast
majority of content creation. now, the screen and the
speakers also work pretty well. so, i like the fact that this
has very high res display that has that matte coating. and on top of that, if i turn
the volume up a little bit, the speakers, the quad
speakers built in here, are actually pretty good. from dkoldies. okay, so i do have the third party. i actually like using laptop
speakers to mix my audio on because it's a sort of good general mix between something like headphones and like a stereo on one end, and something like the phone speaker which most people use on the other side. so, if something sounds
good on laptop speakers, especially when they're
a good set like this, it generally sounds
pretty good everywhere. one of the
features that really stood out to me is the puresight pro lcd. the 14.5 inch 3k panel has the all too illusive matte finish. it's also supposed to have
low blue light emission which is healthier on your eyes, but the thing that i really appreciate is the buttery smoothness of
the 120 hertz refresh rate. now don't get me wrong, this is not meant to be a gaming laptop, but for casual use it's really not bad, especially equipped with the rtx 3050. but, how is it to actually live with? something i wanna show
more in laptop videos is how fast they are to wake from sleep. this one's fairly snappy and it does have windows hello support, meaning you can get up and
running really quickly. now, a couple of general
thoughts on using the yoga. i am, as always, a huge
fan of these of keyboards. it's got 1.5mm of key travel, it's backlit, it's really nice. what i'm not a huge
fan of is the trackpad. it's a nice physical size
for a laptop like this, but listen to what it sounds like. (trackpad clicks) it's fine, but the problem is is that it just feels a little bit hollow. and that's something that you don't get with some of the higher end yogas. so while i like the size of it, i wish that they had sort of
refined that click a little. other than that though, the build quality is really quite nice. and they do have a good
sustainability angle with no plastic in the packaging, and some of the materials
here are recycled, but the entire thing feels very premium. so, here's the thing, i actually find that this
is quite a good device for content consumption. so, the matte display,
the high resolution, the high frame rate, it all
looks good for watching video, the speakers are solid. like, there's so many things that are going for a laptop like this. that while, yes, it is
designed for creators, you don't have to be creating all the time to get the most out of this device. because it's still quite
thin, it's quite portable, you've got good battery life. it checks so many boxes, but importantly, it has some extra features,
and importantly, performance, to push it over the edge compared to a lot of super
thin and light devices. which, let's be real,
aren't that much thinner and that much lighter than
what you're getting here. so, who is this laptop for? well, it's pretty obvious
that it was designed with creators in mind. we've got that beautiful
display, the four crisp speakers, plenty of power, ai everywhere, and even a free two month membership to adobe creative cloud. it honestly does feel premium. but, who it's designed for
and who actually should buy it are sometimes two different things. and honestly, a lot of the
things that make this laptop good make it very applicable to
a wide majority of people. i mean, think about it, almost everyone is a creator
to some form or another. maybe you're making videos all day, or maybe you're just making memes, or cutting together family videos. everyone can benefit from a lot of these
creator focused features. that's what i think
lenovo does quite well. it's a solid product that
has a good focus on features that actually benefit what the user needs. now, as of recording this video, we don't yet have pricing on the pro 7, but assuming that it's
somewhere in the neighborhood of the last generation, it
is an easy recommendation for pretty much anyone
who wants a solid laptop, that will get some work done, maybe a little bit of gaming on the side, and more importantly, it's designed for years and
years of use down the line. so thank you very much to lenovo and amd for sponsoring this video. if you wanna check out the pro 7 the link will be in the description. until next time my friend, i'll
be making both my portfolio and my memes on my shiny new yoga. oh no! oh no, can i use ai to
fix that light falling in the background in
the middle of my take? why would we fix it in real
life when we could use ai? i need to be a totally
different person just to fix it because honestly, this is the future. we're gonna capcut the whole thing and i'm gonna be animated
and it's gonna be hilarious. i just can't wait.