- there is no way in (beep)
hell you have 700,000 cds! when it comes to storage, everyone knows the rule of 3-2-1. that's three copies of your data across two different media types, with at least one of them kept off-site. but do the lmg staff
practice what they preach? acronis sponsored this
video and provided a license to their acronis cyber
protect home office software, so we could find out who the
biggest data hoarder at lmg is and if their data is really safe, if they're really doing it properly. (upbeat music) - i have two of the 2-tb 2.5 drive, one 4-tb 2.5 drive, one 3.5 external drive for 5-tb. - you said so many numbers cause you were saying
the size of the drive. this is impossible to like-
(andy laughs) - do you have 5-terabyte
drives or 6 or 10? - [andy] i have two fives. - two fives so you have 10 terabytes. - i had a nas,
- oh (beep), we got more. - it was like a 2-bay one, now i just upgraded to a 4-bay one, add another 12 terabyte in there, so that's like 48 terabyte, but i have one drive that's in parody. - so that nas is four 12-tb drives, right? - [andy] yeah.
- okay, you have 36 usable. - it was mainly for all the photo i took and all the client project or my personal project and screw project. but they're not full right
now, because i just recently upgraded to the 4-bay drive. because i just recently upgraded it, so the current setup is the setup i want, but for those external drive, i would really prefer just
to have them all in one. - so andy, you had a bunch of
external drives before, right? he's a mac user.
- explains so much. - [jake] that's a fun
way to say, never mind. so you're a mac user, you used to have a
bunch of external drives like in a dock, right? i'm assuming you're using like a toaster? - so you've sort of been just progressing over the years of, you've got this 2-bay and then you've got another 2-bay- - progressive awfulness, and then he finally bought a 4-bay. - and then he gets a 4-bay. - and now he's moving everything into it. - no, not really. (laughs) it's like, what's a backup? those external hard drives, i usually don't plug them in, so they're kind of like a cold backup. - it's not a cold backup,
they bit-rot andy. (laughs) - you gotta keep 'em going all the time. - and you have to check
the data that's on them. - i will cry and cry hard. - your backup strategy
is that you will cry if you lose it. - he's mean to future andy, honestly. - this doesn't look like
mac, andy, this is windows! - [andy] i'm bilingual, okay?
(all laugh) - yes, you are. wow, that is a very full five-terabyte. - now that's hoarding. you fill up the whole thing until you have no swap
space left and it implodes. - alright, a cloud is your nas right? - [andy] yes. - okay, so you got 31 terabytes usable. oh my god, all of these external drives! is there photo? oh yeah, there is photos. - oh, i gotta see this. - wait, a hub you say. oh my god. - [dan] oh it is a toaster! - yeah, there's the nas.
- okay, yeah yeah. - is that a little-
- nice cable management. - what's that?
- that's a tp link. - is that 2.5 gig?
- [andy] 2.5. - whoa, look at you, does the nas actually have 2.5 gig? - [andy] yep.
- wow. - [jake] okay so you've
got two 5-tb drives that are entirely separate now. you've got, oh my god,
are these nvme ssds? what the hell. - those look like inventory items to me. - so they're all just hooked
up to your thunderbolt dock. (laughs) what is this andy? oh man. - so this is the type of hoarder who's got garbage all over. - he genuinely-
- every room. i prefer the type of hoarder who takes all their garbage and just puts in one big (beep) off pile in the middle of their living room. - andy, you have a problem. - [dan] yeah, this is a problem. you need to consolidate this. - he's working on it.
- okay. - is the plan to take everything
and put it on the nas? - [andy] yes, which i did. - are you going to get
rid of the other things? - no, then he'll have more space to put stuff back onto them. - [andy] then i wouldn't have cold backup. - think of your kids. - i think he's like a six. - yeah, but i don't
know what the scale is. (jake laughs) - i have just about 23
terabytes on the main nas and then a couple of other terabytes here and there on other drives. - now we're talking. - it's not super full, cause i mostly use it for game
capture while i'm streaming, but it's probably like five or
six terabytes at this point. so i got this nas as part
of my intel upgrade set up, it was a old pc that i kind
of transplanted it into it. i've actually switched a little bit of what was seen in the video. it's now like a windows
system, it's not unraid. - gotta love running
your storage on windows. - i have some backup stuff, so if it's something that i'm
really worried about losing or i really don't want to replay, i'll put it to cloud storage. i pay for the extra storage on google. - i do that too. - you mean, you do things properly? - i would replay all the games, baby. who needs to deal with your backlog when you can replay the
games you've already played? - it sounds like he's using this as a memory bank for all the
games that he's played. so yeah, that would be
kind of sad to lose that. - especially as it's, you know, high-quality recordings
of old, vintage games that nobody's probably ever played before. like, i don't know, mario,
- (laughs) never played mario. - castlevania. it could be some of, mario. - another thing that i would really change is that it's actually
a water-cooled system. - oh god.
- the nas is water cooled? - yeah. water and data
usually don't mix too well. - it's a nas, it doesn't need to be. all it really does is nvenc on the gpu. - it's kind of cool. it sounds like his nas is
also like his streaming pc. - i think it's in his encoding
or something like that. - yeah, it sounds like
it's doing the streaming and the recording, which
is pretty cool, actually. - double duty is a good idea, yeah. - wow.
- oh yeah, buddy. - is this taryn's desk? jesus. this is a roasting
viewers' setups video now. - [dan] you've got a nintendo 64. (laughs) sorry. - [david] this is where the magic happens. - that's a lot of game comp. oh there we go, it is under
the desk, you were right. wow, look at all those! - [david] this is all my hard drives. - i think under my recommendation, he bought a proper hba, which is cool, rather than just plugging
into like zeta ports. - that's a good recommendation. - hold on, this game... - [dan] for the tension! - is holding up the
reservoir. look at the tube. - this is so beautifully jag. - the funny thing is, it doesn't look like any water is moving in here. (laughs) - [david] the idea is, i can
play games while streaming, while recording the footage. so i can do just 17 birds with 1.3 stones. - pretty controlled chaos, i would say. - this is an extremely
reasonable amount of chaos, but the nice thing is, he's done the garbage
pile in the living room. but it's not like a garbage pile, this is the type of
hoarding where you just have too many knickknacks and
you've got all your shelves, and they've just got crap all over them. and you're like no, i can't throw out this
vintage mrs. buttersworth, i might like to look at it in five years, not that i'm gonna sell it. - (sigh) and un-water cool it. (chuckles) and if you're not gonna un-water cool it, don't have it sitting on
a game, kinking the tube. i like it, i'm gonna
give you a seven, david. - this is pleasant,
yeah. it was enjoyable. - it's at least contained. - in terms of storage, i have 20 hard drives, roughly
about two terabytes each. - just 20 hard drives? holy (beep). - and then there's
three more that are like varying sizes of five,
four and eight terabytes. they're all populated
because they're my backups. collectively, it's about
82.5-ish terabytes? then on top of that, i
have hundreds of tapes. oh, and then i have a 5-bay nas populated with eight-terabyte drives. altogether, it's around 127-ish terabytes. so, i'm kind of old.
(all laugh) back in the day, i shot everything on tape and it made more sense cause hard drives were more expensive, so it made sense just to shoot on the tape and have it on the tape. degradation wasn't that bad,
especially with digital video. before working here, i
worked doing wedding videos for about 10 years, and that's
all the videos i've ever- - this is hoarding.
- [mark] recorded. - hundreds of terabytes
of someone else's wedding. (dan and jake laugh) no, we used to also keep
previous clients' footage because sometimes they'd be like, oh hey, we didn't actually
wanna pay for a cut of this, but we've decided, and
do you still have it? we would like to pay you more money, and sometimes it can be a godsend. 127 terabytes is an unnecessary
quantity of terabytes. - is it unnecessary?
- yeah, cause he's not storing linux isos. - right, right. - he's storing other people's weddings. - not to throw shade at drobo, but i kind of wish i
didn't go with the drobo. - what's drobo?
- i was gonna ask you that. - does anybody know what drobo is? - [dan] dropbox? - it was thunderbolt two and- - they're mac-specific things. - oh he didn't even mention,
i forgot, he's a mac guy. - i went with the drobo setup, because i had a whole
bunch of random discs, not equal size, and i wanted redundancy and that just was not an
option with the standard nas. - yeah, if it's just in a pile in the middle of his
living room, like i hope- - [andy] it's in a couple plastic bins. - not bags? - so offsite, no. that was something i wanted to look into, but now that i've moved out
of the wedding industry, it isn't really an issue. i think it's only ever come up once, that i needed to get footage
again for a past couple. - see, i told you it does happen, right. - one time! how many
weddings did this guy shoot? if he's got hundreds of tapes. - i mean, he probably got so
much dopamine saving the day that he's never gonna delete any of this. - (chuckles) but tldr, he should. - oh yeah, just burn
it. put it in your yard. - i mean, it's not that big
of a deal now. (chuckles) - he even admits it's not
a big deal if he lost it! - i'd be sad. - he'd be sad though.
- aw. - i'd be more upset if i lost
the videotapes to be honest, which is part of the
reason why i'm working on backing everything up. i actually bought a vcr 2 to back up all of my old vhs
tapes from way back in the day. it's a damn good vcr 2. dan's dad helped me fix it. i shouldn't say helped me
fix it, he fixed it for me. - is your dad like a vcr repairman? - yeah, he ran a shop for years and years. he was one of the first
color tv engineers. - replacing vcrs?
- yeah, fixing them. - that was a liberal
estimate actually, 127. like i mentioned, it could
be close to half a petabyte. - half a petabyte! what? - if i really want to convert everything, which i haven't yet,
because i also have cds too, i just didn't want to bring up my pirating prowess background. - i mean, how much does a cd hold? - 735 megabibels. - 100 terabytes times- - (chuckles) i wanna see
his plastic bags of cds now. - 1,000 gigs, so we're talking, half a million gigabytes. you said how many?
- 730 megs. - you're talking 700,000 cds. there is no way in (beep) hell you have 700,000 cds to make up. okay sorry, let me
deduct a little bit here. let's start with like 380 terabytes. - that's a lot of plastic bags. (laughs) - times 1,000...
- oh my god. - still a lot! you need a
warehouse to fit all these cds. (both laugh) mark you're
so full of (beep). even if i have more data somehow, i don't know if i can compete
with half a petabyte of cds. (andy laughs) if i had more data, i
think mark still wins, cause it's just a pure chaos. look at all these 2-tb- - 200? no, that said gigabyte. okay, i'm not impressed anymore. that's just called a t7 old hard drive. - it's a five-terabyte,
four-terabyte, six-terabyte. 70-terabyte?
- 70! - that must be his nas.
- that's the drobo. - oh my god wow, he does
have like 20 hard drives. i like that he 3d-printed
holders for them. did he buy those? i don't know. - that's a nas, yeah, that's
probably the drobo maybe? i don't know. - (chuckles) oh, that's
not even that many! it's like three bins
and they're flat bins. - that's nice. - i think mark was misleading
us a little bit. (laughs) - i wanna see the 500 plastic
bags full of loose dvds. (all laugh) - on my main nas i have
64 terabytes of storage and i'm using just shy
of 40 terabytes of it. as a general rule, i
store absolutely nothing on the individual computers in the house, because that's how you lose data. oh, absolutely. right now i have pretty
much no ssd acceleration. it's basically all mechanical. - that can be okay, like my unraid setup is purely just hard drives. there is cash drives, but i
just use them for storing vms. it's kind of a weird perspective cause he could basically
just have whatever he wants, and instead he chose not only hard drives, but they're like the seagate archive ones so they're shingled drives. yeah, not great. - i also had some regrets before, because i didn't have
a fast enough processor to handle transcoding movies while also putting in closed captions, which is apparently like
single thread limited. so i got my hands, after
i built it, on a '99 90xe. massive shout out puget systems,
that's a really unique cpu. - (chuckles) he's broken. - okay, my backup story
is a little complicated. i do have a backup. i don't know exactly where it is and it's super out of
date, it's really bad. i'm not practicing what i preach when it comes to my personal data. but the issue is, i was
gonna have jake help me back it up to the office. - so this is all your fault.
- he's admitting it. - we're gonna fix it, isn't
that part of this project? yeah, we're building a target so i will. - oh awesome. - so i'm solving it by
green-lighting this video. if i lost everything
tomorrow, first i'd cry. i actually would. you know what? oh my god, my backup stuff. i even took home our old
io-safe fireproof nas, but then i ran into some
issue with the drives that i was putting it into
cause really it's the photos. it's all about the family
photos and a ton of it i have in google drive
or in google photos. - right, he uses plex to
sync his phone's photos back to his nas and
that's how he stores them. - has he not heard of like
synctrayzor or syncthing or one of those? - or like google photos...
- or dropbox? - but it's sporadic,
right, it's not organized. the one place i have definitely, absolutely everything is my nas. so i wanted to put everything
on the fireproof nas, but then i ran into some
issue with that too. it's like the mechanic
with the crappy car, sometimes i don't feel motivated
to fix my own tech stuff. - he would cry, yeah.
- i mean yeah, most people would. you don't wanna lose hundreds of weddings. (both laughing) - yeah, it's actually pretty... i want this case, damn it! he's the one that has it! - what is the case? - this is a norco 24-bay case and i've been trying to
find one, you just can't. - that's nice. - they have awful back plates. it's not that nice actually, but it's like a cheap way to do it. it's a pretty sweet setup. - so i guess this answers the question of how much storage you have,
cause we're looking at it. it looks like you've got two? - no, that's work's.
- that's users'. - that's one. (laughs) - so it looks like you've
got about 84 terabytes, something like that?
- usable. - that's pretty impressive. - a rate of 11 devices,
what the (beep)! what? - does your case allow for
11 or what are you doing? - no, this is a 12. i haven't touched the drives in my nas. - so jake is the first one
to have failures on camera, setting up for-
- but it's not a failure. it's not even in the array. - it's not even been detected. - [jake] so it'd be 104 terabytes, right, and then plus the other
eight terabytes missing... - [dan] he's just trying to beat mark. - [jake] so that'd be 112 terabytes. - [dan] that's pretty good.
- [jake] in my nas. - and your utilization
is at acceptable levels for a hoarder, i would say. - i'm using like 50 terabytes. - what do you use your main nas for, besides all the linux cds? - there's a few linux isos. i back up all the other
systems in my house, which is only two systems, but because i have so
much storage, i can just- - just rolling backups,
is it all constant? - yeah, i think i have 60 days' worth of backups per system? (laughs) - that's pretty good. - i'm like linus, i'm
ethical about my linux isos. i pay for the subscription linux isos. - you pay for ubuntu when- - (laughs) i pay for
ubuntu, i pay for centos- - you pay for mint.
- i pay for mint. a lot of it honestly is
redundant data that i don't need. - that's what hoarding is all about. - i will admit i have far too much data and far too much storage
than i should have. i back up to my home nas and i
also back up to backblaze p2. it costs me like 20 or 30 bucks a month, but i know that it's safe
there and it's also at home and it's also on the origin, so it's in three different places. it's in montreal, kentucky and vancouver. - so you've gone one step further between two on-site, one off-site. you've also gone two off-site,
but in different countries. that's pretty cool. looks like you've got some
unify equipment there too? older unify?
- older? it's a brand new, that's the
2.5-gig switch at the top. - oh okay yeah, that's quite nice. and then you've got that
nice little rockmount case and that looks nice too. what kind of gpu you got in there? - it's a 1660 ti, that's
for linux iso and coding. - i gotta score you. the problem is that you're
doing things properly and you have business-related critical infrastructure as well. - (laughs) it's a very small
percentage of what's on there. - i don't know, six out
of ten? seven out of ten? - six? six!
- six out of seven? - what did we score mark?
- seven. - really? i think mark wins. - i think mark wins. you're a close god-damn
second, but the problem is- (jake laughing) that you've done a reasonable setup here. instead of playing games,
you run game servers, right? mark is definitely chaotic. - and that's what gives him the edge. as you can see, most of us don't have a
proper backup solution, and that's where acronis comes in. their acronis cyber protect for business and acronis cyber protect
home office software makes protecting and cloning discs or copying data easy
with premium services. get up to five terabytes of cloud storage for your personal needs with acronis. unfortunately for us, we obviously have way
more than five terabytes. so we're gonna point everyone to a server here at the office that's
got quite a bit more storage. you're gonna start by opening acronis, setting your destination target, then go to the backup tab and select it, and then hit backup now. if you've got anywhere
close to as much data as we currently have, prepare
for this to take days, particularly if you don't
have at least gigabit on your home network. acronis does more than just
back all of this up by the way. it offers cyber protection features, checks all of these files
for any hidden infections, and it works with just about anything. that's macos, linux and mobile devices, they're all supported. acronis is giving you
a chance to try it out, thanks to a 40% off discount on their cyber protect
home office software when you use code linus2022. thanks acronis! it took a while but here we are! a full off-site backup for
the biggest hoarders at lmg. all 400...holy (beep)! 450 terabytes? is that
including mark's half petabyte? a couple of the interviews
didn't make it into the video but we back them up anyways. so if you wanna see those, get subscribed to
floatplane for the full set. now we just have to make sure the server doesn't catch fire again. yes thank you ploof,
very helpful. (chuckles) thanks for watching, if you guys enjoyed this video, feel free to check out our
other sponsored acronis videos, like how to try windows 11 safely. that was pretty cool, cause i wrote it.