here's how i sell a klein bottle: somebody goes 
to my website, buys a bottle, comes down into my   office. i print out a receipt and a packing slip; 
okay let's send it out. this has nothing to do   with mathematics, everything with running a home 
business. whoever buys a klein bottle from me, i   figure i'm going to meet them, they're going to 
bump into me. and so i'm going to make sure that   when they when they see me i hope they'll be my 
friend. okay somebody's ordered a klein bottle,   ask my robot, robot delivers a box of bottles, i 
bring it over here. i go weigh it; step one, take a   picture of it. all these mathematicians are smiling 
at it. weather permitting i'm going to walk outside,   take a picture of the guy against the sky, against 
whatever is blossoming - whatever leaves there are. how about - hey!  okay, come on in. just spent all of what? a 
minute walking through the garden, and oh   wait a second - ah check this out, fall color 
is here. again, why am i going to do? this has   nothing to do with mathematics, it's because 
if somebody buys a klein bottle i celebrate by   walking through our little backyard 
garden. come on back in. let's wrap this up. well bubble wrap, not yet out the door, but hey, here's what's coming. almost getting there. first 
before we pack everything up: throw in some sheets of unimportant 
information, a calibration decal,   runs from 0.0 milliliters all 
the way up to zero hundred to   zero thousand milliliters. start some 
bubbles, come on mr machine.  it's a bottle, it's a glass 
bottle, that i hope means fragile. mr fragile or maybe miss fragile or 
mrs fragile or fragile them. fragile! the pictures, they're for two purposes: purpose one   is to fix my mistakes. if i forgot something, 
if i screwed up, it shows up in the camera.   the other thing therefore is to send to my customer.
- (brady: i say you've put lots of automation) (in place in various ways but it still seems like 
a really time intensive purpose with all the)   (handwritten messages and the drawings)
- brady, it's time intensive, it's a labor of love. i can't say i   make the glass bottles myself - at my age i'm tired 
of burning my fingers. and they didn't do that   much anyway, but everything else: packing them, 
making sure that it's going to the right person,   making sure that it's not going to break 
along the way -
- (how often do they break?)  how often does do my klein bottles break?
- (in the post)
- oh in the post?   um about 1 in 200, 1 in 300 is broken on delivery. 
i mean of course you know if i take it like this   my floor is cushioned so i'm not 
worried about it breaking on my floor,  but i'm also not worried about- when i first 
started putting these in boxes i chose the   box and i chose the method of cushioning them 
by taking- by going to a stepladder and standing   five feet - about a meter and three quarters - off a 
concrete- on top of concrete dropping them from a   ladder. first on that end, than throwing it up 
like this, and letting it drop a lot of times.  you know, you know, over and over again - well 
on here this is a cushiony floor but i did   it over concrete. needless to say i also guarantee 
these klein bottles; you know if it arrives broken-  if it arrives broken i'll replace it 
immediately. in fact one thing i say is, look  i want you to be happy. i want my customer to be 
smiling. so if it breaks in the first three months   send me a picture of the 
broken thing, send me 10 bucks, i'll replace it. 
here's my little forklift robot 
to go pick klein bottles from stock. tilt the   thing - if you look carefully at it, let's see if i 
actually show this, i mean this is just homebrew, this is only incidental, this is not klein 
bottles, it's how to run a warehouse really.