this is a $250 million private
island. literally, anything you could ever
want is on this island. and i'm going to show you
the difference between this and a $150
million luxury island, a massive $45 million island,
a $5 million frozen island all the way down to the cheapest
private island in the world. that thing i'm starting to realize
might not all fit on it. first step on my brand new island. here's your dollar. thank you, sir. - thank you for selling it to me.
- it's yours now, buddy. let's check out
what i just bought. my first impressions is that it's a lot smaller than i thought. when you pay a dollar, you get a random pile of bricks,
an old toilet. i found the restroom. and a bunch of random wooden poles. there's more poles than
square feet on this thing. they're actually called pylons. let's pile onto that boat and leave. and as you can see, there's nothing
here, so i'm going to blow it up. but later in this video,
we're going to a $150 million island and also a quarter
billion dollar super island. but first, we're going to head over
to the $1 million dollar island called monkey island. yes, you heard me right. this island is literally swarmed
with hundreds of monkeys. i can see why it's called
monkey island. - what's this monkey?
- it's odie. odie took my orange. okay. monkey see food, monkey take. all the monkeys on this island have a strategy
for interacting with people. they gaslight you into thinking that you're friends,
and then they steal your food. you can have it.
you can have it. i love this monkey. there's a monkey on the boat. and if you're wondering
where are you and your friends are going to sleep
on this island, suspended above the water are six
luxury cabanas, which house both humans and monkeys. the monkey's grabbing the gopro, jimmy. sir, we need this for filming. i just need to borrow this. thank you. okay. i got my camera back.
you want... oops. he wants your hat. okay, you can have that, sir. by the end of this,
i'm going to be naked. the monkeys are stealing everything. and the monkeys are not even
the coolest part of this island. see, this island isn't
even an island at all. it's actually the top of a massive
underwater plant network that emerged from the sand and water to create this illusion of an island
that we see today. is this a milion dollar island
or a million dollar bush? - because there's no land.
- what do you think? i don't know. i think an island
is what you make of it. and on the other side of the island,
there's even a private relaxation area and a beachfront massage parlor. nolan! i'm trying not to fall in the water. i'm about to get a massage
with a monkey. that's really cool. notice how all the water
around you is freezing. what? that took a lot of effort. and we put that much effort in
to convey that the $5 million island
is very cool. and where we're going next,
most of the year looks like this, but it's going to look like this. no joke. this island is so cold right now
that the lake surrounding it is actually frozen solid,
which means to get there, we're going to be using
an interesting vehicule. we're literally hovering. yeah. apparently snowmobiles would have
been too basic for this island. it just had to be hovercrafts. this is awesome. talking about arriving in fashion. and it only took about 30 seconds being outside the hovercraft
for the gang to be frozen solid. - how cold is it?
- it's zero degrees celsius. it's pretty cold, man he's more like a 70 guy. so, they hurried over to these futuristic
self-heating huts to stay warm. oh, this is so small. wait, there's no
room for you in here. we're gonna have to cuddle then. and these huts are able to stay here
completely year round because they're able to both float
on warm, peaceful lake water. but they also do
just fine in the dead of winter. but at least in the winter, you get a great view
of the northern lights. for $5 million, you basically
get a winter wonderland. and while staying on this island, you're given unlimited
five star food. i think he thinks we speak finnish. and even though this island comes
with a luxury cabin to stay in. oh, this is beautiful. fine, i'll take it. jimmy, buy it for me. the gang ended up spending
most of their time on the frozen lake where they were able to ride
an actual dog sled. he took your glove. oh my gosh! this is the best island. i don't know how
any island is going to beat this. maybe one where i could feel my hands. and karl's hands are in luck
because this next island is not only warm but more expensive
than all of the other islands combined. this island is tiny,
but arguably one of the most luxurious ones out there. okay, let's go check the house. feast! we're stoked to have you
as our guest. we hope you have a blast.
just don't break anything. yo, we should try to break one thing. oh, nice bathroom. usually rich people like showers that
can fit like 30 to 1000 people in them. this time,
they chose a reasonable shower. when you pay $16 million in addition to a shower,
that's the size of the $1 island, the private island comes
with this helicopter that's apparently too
big for this island. we have jet skis. we have a submarine.
another submarine to the right. we have a shark submarine
over there. there's almost a submarine
for each of us. boys, do whatever you want.
have fun. you're out. you yeah! yeah! i'm going really fast. i love private islands. karl, if you had one wish,
what would it be? to get off of this thing! yeah! we're underwater! i am a fish now. after ludwig and karl kissed
the sea at 500 miles per hour, we went back to shore
to take a little breather. yeah. ludwig's
going to jump out of a helicopter. he really is. no, wait, i'm not...
wait, what? any last words? i love you, mom.
i'm sorry. this helicopter is taking the boys
up into the air and letting them jump and
freefall into the ocean. oh, my god. this is crazy.
we shouldn't be doing this. this is only a $16 million island, and we're jumping out of a helicopter. he's about to jump. oh my gosh! oh wait! they jump! there he goes. whoever said money doesn't buy
happiness, doesn't own that private island,
because i'm pretty happy. and now the $45 million island, this island is so big,
you can't even fit it all in frame. oh, hey, i didn't realize
they were waiting on us. - hi!
- hi! i always feel uncomfortable
when i pull up to places and people are just standing
potentially for hours waiting on me. hello! we have some blueberry smoothies
here. is it alcoholic? no, it's not. he's not 21 now we'll take you guys up
and we'll show you around royal island a little bit. let's see what
$45 million gets us. it's a long path. the path is longer than
the last island. for $45 million, this island comes with
a mansion and its own beachside bar and private chef. - can i give it a flip?
- sure. that's not too bad. and outside of the
mansion is a hot tub overlooking the
cove where the jet skis are and of course, a pool
with the best view i've ever seen. does this look as cool on camera
as it does in real life? and if for some reason, you
don't want to stay in the mansion, there's five luxury beachside cabanas
you can pick from. jimmy, may i? you may. may i? you may. i have class. but even after messing around
with all of the amenities. why are we playing ping pong
when we have an entire island? it's important to note that that's
not what makes this island special. all the way at the other end of the island are century-old ruins
that we are yet to explore. dibs on driving. oh, no. all right, ready? yeah. we're going to go off
roading a little bit and head to the back
of the island now. how does karl
always end up driving? - because i'm awesome.
- big bump! dude, this is like a safari. yeah, you're going four times
the speed limit.  i mean, i don't know if
there's cops that will stop you, but i'm just letting you know. is there a jail on this island? no jail. oh there's no jail? and when we finally ran out of road
to drive on, we started to make our way through what used to be a village of people on this island,
over a hundred years ago. - this used to be a bar?
- yes you want to walk under this
100-year-old giant thousand-pound slab? sure, surely it won't fall
on top of me. dude, if today was the day that it'd fell,
you couldn't even be mad. nolan, come over here before you die. and just past the ruins is easily
the best view on the entire island. yeah, it gets better. we were driving for so long. i forgot we were on an island. the island starts over there, comes
all the way around, wraps all the way around here. goes down that coastline
all the way up over there. i'll be honest, i wouldn't pay $45 million for a big jungle
with some ancient ruins. but i'm sure some rich guy will. this next island is arguably
the second most expensive island that money can buy. this is the $150 million island. it comes with eight
luxurious mega mansions. and the best part is it is completely powered
by solar panels and wind turbines. it's home to some of the most
exotic animals i've ever seen, and took over four decades to build. this island will literally blow your mind. when i think of a private island,
this is what i think of. that's good,
because this is a private island. all right. and apparently the first thing you
need to do here is wash your hands. make sure you don't taint the
island with your outside world germs. i've already
washed my germs. does everyone who come here
gets a coconut? i mean, they're not running low. true. i don't know if it's
because this place is so fancy. or maybe they just
heard about karl's driving, yeah! but each of us ended up
with our own personal driver. i have a feeling this is going to be
a once-in-a-lifetime experience. - unless you come back.
- that might be out of my price range. and even though this island costs
$150 million, you can actually rent it yourself, for the extremely low price
of 140 grand per day. i didn't even realize
we just went up a mountain. i've heard this is the most
luxurious private island in the world. it is. - the view is insane.
- this is the great house. but before we were able to explore the great house, my dumb
friends got distracted by a turtle. there's a turtle? get in there. yeah. all right, you guys
go to the rest of the island. this island is so extra
that for every one person in your party, they have ten staff
members waiting on your every need. there's a bunch of people over there
like here's drinks, here's food. what do you want to do
over the next few days? and we're just like "turtle". and of course, nolan, of all my friends
wanted to take advantage of this. yes! yeah! what's everyone up to over here? we're playing pool. with 10 people? they're my hype crew. you don't have to hang out
with him to make him feel good. i will be sad
if you don't sit down and relax. if you need attention,
don't make them stand there. it's only been an hour,
but i'll say it. this is the best island so far. on top of all of that, the island has a house
with a driving range on the roof where you can literally hit
golf balls into the ocean. because these are made of fish food. you should probably hit it
further so you don't hit someone. look at all those flamingos.
there's so much i can't process it. flamingos in the sky. they are everywhere. they don't love us
unless we give them food. come here, my brethren. but flamingos aren't the only
exotic animals on this island. - bro.
- that's a dinosaur. this is so cool. and believe it or not, this turtle could theoretically
live over 200 years. mr. tortoise, my name is jimmy. if my descendants, descendants,
descendants come here. tell them i was awesome. and afterwards, we got swarmed by a bunch of lemurs
that live on this island over here. get over here! jimmy, i don't know if you noticed
that there's two lemurs on your head. yeah, i know.
i'm trying not to move... - i'll put food on there.
- please don't. and if you're wondering where
all these exotic animals came from, most of them, sadly, are endangered
species and are all on this island because the owner, richard branson, brought all of them
here to help prevent them from going extinct. but the most endangered
animal on the island were the mermaids
that serve you sushi. yeah! mermaids and sushi. this is luxury. mermaids! - do you guys want sushi?
- i wouldn't say no. is that cannibalism? yes. it's like a family reunion.
get over here. there's honestly
so much on this island. we can't even film it all. we play tennis, we play basketball. we explore yet another mansion. i did my first cold plunge. you get the idea. there's
so much to do on this island. it's actually overwhelming. this one's actually pretty intense. i'm like actually scared. - you know what else is intense?
- what? the final island.
i'll see you there. why are we still here? and on the way to the $250
million island, we stopped in shark infested waters
because i have to pay for this video. and now
that i'm surrounded by sharks and what
feels like my worst nightmare, i'm going to tell you guys,
about stumble guys. bro, they're so close. oh, my gosh. and the worst part is i'm not
coming out until i'm done with this ad stumble guys is a free-to-play
mobile player game where 32 people compete
for the crown. you have to be an absolute maniac
to do this. not even stumble guys
could pay me to do this. why are you all here, sharks? they're so close,
they're so close. and for their new season they went all out with the new
mrbeast skins, animations and emotes. okay, square head, have it... bro, this is nuts. i want to make sure
there's enough sharks for jimmy. they also added a brand new level, but you have to follow a pattern
as long as possible to stay alive. and the longer you live,
the harder it gets. is a shark hitting me? i think the sharks are hitting the cage.
it's rocking! oh, this is scary. not only that, i also just released my new toolkit
so you can build your own mrbeast level. this is one of their best seasons ever. you need to try my new mrbeast level,
plus build your own. and i want
to see what you guys come up with. the sharks keep hitting the cage.
so i'm going to get out of here. make sure to download
stumble guys for free so i don't have to go back
in the shark cage. you're alive. let's go do more things that have
nothing to do with sharks. please. and now that i've paid off the debt
i've incurred from this video, let's visit the $250 million island. this is a $250 million
private island. this extraordinary island
has an entire amusement park with over a dozen waterslides. it also has its own hot air balloon
and just about every activity you could imagine. and we have it all to ourselves. there are no other guests here,
but out of every feature you've seen on these islands so far,
this one stands above the rest. in the middle of the island
is a massive waterslide, even though literally eight year
olds ride that waterslide, i might still chicken out
because i'm afraid of heights. but before taking on the water
slide, we checked out the other features,
like how there's over a hundred jetskis on this island. it's a bit overkill. and not to mention there's a literal zip lines
that span across manmade beaches. what's the helmet for? what am i going to hit? the ground, bro. because sometimes people fall off. - this is like really scary.
- yeah. - good luck.
- thank you. karl, you're kind of far behind. this is awesome. this is actually not that crazy. and if you own this island,
you can host over 13,000 of your friends at any of these
five gargantuan pools. oh, this kind of looks like
it was made in minecraft. and it's so funny
just seeing my two friends in it. nolan looks like a tiny speck. for $250 million, this island,
of course, has exotic animals. is that a peacock? sir, i need to take
you in for questioning. sir? and even every game you can imagine, i wish there is the 13,000 people
that are normally here, to watch how bad he is at cornhole. is that soccer pool? this island has things
i didn't even know existed. but something i noticed is
there were way too many lifeguards at this island
for just the four of us. how many lifeguards
are on this island? - over 100
- really? with this many lifeguards,
you would have to try to drown. so i thought it'd be fun
if we gave them all the day off. has anyone ever rented
this island before? no one. - this is the first.
- dude, you are leaning back. you look way too relaxed. and after all 100 lifeguards went down, they decided to hype up
the boys and i for our turn on the slide. here we go! oh my gosh! boys, you want to know
what's even scarier than that? what? that one. why is it so terrifying tonight? it looks so scary. we can skip it. towering at over 135 feet tall. this is the tallest water
slide in all of north america. i don't even know what i'm looking at. it's like a skyscraper. but i'm scared. daredevil's peak.
what a soothing name. very inviting. we're so up. it's kind of freaking me out. all right, we made it to the top. are you guys just waiting for us up
here? yeah. listen
to how intense the wind is up here. oh, don't look down. look how crazy the island
looks. oh, my god. - karl!
- no. nolan! oh! would you say nose goes is enforceable? nose goes is enforceable. there we go! the lifeguards said you got to go, nolan. i love you, mom. i'll see you on the other side. all right, go. oh my god! oh, i got hit by a truck. let's do this. you better come down after me. okay. oh, god. why is it so fast? is it actually that scary? i'm going to do this
for your entertainment, even though giant rides scare me. here we go. that is going so fast. and even though
i was basically just drowning the entire time down this waterslide, i gotta say this whole island
was pretty awesome.