in the old days cards from the
1960's had a magnetic strip right so that when you did a transaction the terminal would
read the data on the card's magnetic strip but from 2003 in the uk you started to
get chips as well. so the information is kept in this semiconductor chip and that
makes it significantly more difficult to counterfeit. . to counterfeit a mag stripe card all you gotta do is copy it onto a new card but to counterfeit a chip you've
got a drill into it with lasers and probing stations and other expensive fiddly
equipment and get the keys out, and that is a pain and it only works some of the
time and you just don't want to go there. but don't worry if you're a criminal
'cause there are lots and lots of easier ways of cheating chip and pin systems. chip & pin is fun. it was designed in the late nineteen nineties on the basis of some
earlier experiments in the earlier nineteen nineties in which we were
privileged to have some small role and it was introduced first in britain from
2003 to 2005 so we started off with an idea of what the frauds would likely be. for example if you have got some means of intercepting the transaction flow between a card and a terminal. say you've got a false card and you can wire it up to a false terminal elsewhere then when a sucker puts his card into your terminal you
can teleport that to a dodgy card that you then present at a jewelers shop - and we demonstrated this as a proof of concept and these relay attacks work in theory
but you don't see them in practice then once chip and pin got fielded we began
to see how things change in the real world and fraud didn't in fact go down but it went up because first of all the bad guys went online and although fraud
initially fell a little bit in shops, it more than caught up for that by increasing online. second although fraud from counterfeit cards initially went down,
when they introduced chip and pin what happened was that after a period of
six months or so it shot up and what the bad guys had realized is that now you've
got these chip and pin devices everywhere you could use them to harvest
chip and pin details, card details and you could then make up mag stripe card
forgeries and use them in atms that would still accept mag stripe transactions.
so we found for example that there was a dodgy chip and pin terminal in the bp
garage (gas/petrol station) in girton (cambs) which caused a couple of hundred people locally to have money
taken from their cash machines in thailand of all places and there was a
gang that got various people that garages around the country to install
dodgy equipment that would capture people's chip and pin details so that
was one of the things that went wrong. it was possible for example to remove part
of the back of a chip and pin terminal and put electronics in there and drill in so
that you got into the serial link which goes between the pin-pad and the card and that gets the current details going one direction and the pin going in the other
direction and that's all that you need to do mag stripe forgeries. after we
demonstrated this on tv the banks said "well you know that's a difficult attack
cambridge students could do it but real criminals couldn't" but only a few months
later they arrested a couple of guys in manchester what they've done was get
access to the warehouse in dubai where the chip and pin terminals stopped to catch breath on route from the factory in china to the retail trade in britain
and the netherlands and in the back of them they put little mobile phones so
that whenever you used this terminal it would text your card and pin details to
somebody in karachi - and those guys eventually got off because the banks
weren't prepared to offer evidence against them it was just too
embarrassing more recently what we discovered is that we got a number of
people came to us and they said look my card was stolen it was then used in a
shop - the bank says it must be my fault because the pin was used and so i must
have been negligent but it couldn't have happened i didn't use the card with the pin. we went and we looked and we found that it's actually easy to cheat because what
you can do, is you can put a device between the card and the terminal which tells the terminal that the pin was
accepted by the card but tells the card that it was a chip and signature
transaction and this is an example of the electronics that you can use you put
the stolen card into the device like this and you then use the 'tame' card in
the chip and pin device like this and this means that the electronics can
modify the transaction as it flows from your stolen smart card to the chip
and pin terminal. the chip and pin machine is told that you entered the correct pin
even although you didn't but the card is told that a signature verified the
transaction and it's this kind of sleight-of-hand this enables no-pin fraud to be carried out and we've seen that in the wild since, gosh, about 2010 2011 there're people in france who've been sent to jail for it there're number of variants of it and now we're starting to see it in china because in china you can buy tiny little two-sided
sim cards that will go between your phone and your sim card to enable you
to do roaming more cheaply right, so that you can roam among china's different
provinces and the problem with these slim shims is that they're just what you
need to replace all this electronics [sorry, slim sim is it?] or a sim shim ['shim' is it? oh so it's like, shimmies inbetween] ...exactly so and so these devices
can enable you to replace all this electronics with one tiny little chip that you can just slip in between the stolen card and the chip & pin terminal. what we're
doing is getting a man in the middle as we call it in between the card and the
chip and pin machine so we can manipulate those parts of the
transaction that aren't properly cryptographically authenticated. so
that's the latest fraud technology. the latest fraud methodology is simpler
because what you do is you take a chip and pin machine and you re-program it and we're now seeing 'evil' chip and pin machines coming on the market in europe in spain, in britain, in portugal and in the baltics and elsewhere and what these chip and pin machines will do - is they'll display a small amount on the screen, say your transaction is thirty
pounds for a meal or whatever while putting a big transaction into the card - 3,000 pounds ok - and these are typically used in places like night clubs and
strip clubs and so on. so there's various guys from britain have gone on stag nights in
poland or in lithuania or whatever and they come back and find those a five
thousand-pound transaction on the chip and pin card. how did it happen? well you used your chip and pin card in a strip club in vilnius what do you expect? or in
barcelona, or now even in bournemouth this is now happening in britain as well
and it's very very difficult for people who go into a bad place and use a card
because if, if you complain to your bank then the strip club owner will just say "he was with four girls all night and four... ...thousand pounds is what that costs at our place!" so you really are on a hiding to nothing when it comes to complaining. the thing about this is that the average person just doesn't think that,
you know, if you pull your wallet out of your pocket you've got what, two or three cards in there? if each of these cards is good for five or ten thousand pounds,
you know, with your overdraft limit and the extra undocumented overdraft that the bank will give you and charge you extra for... there's a total spending power in your pocket of maybe twenty thousand pounds. now, you wouldn't dream of walking into a whore-house on a saturday night with 20,000 pounds in cash in your pocket would you? but that's what people do when they walk into dodgy businesses just carrying a
normal wallet with normal chip and pin cards in them and that's a new hazard
that people just aren't aware of yet there's a classic example of the middle person attack which is john conway's famous idea of how to beat a grandmaster at chess. well it's easy just play two grand masters at chess simultaneously by postal chess and you
relay the moves backwards and forwards from one to the other playing games like this is what security
engineers are really really into when it comes to designing protocols and
protocols are hard to design right people usually get them wrong and again
and again we find protocol flaws with emv which can be exploited and are being exploited. emv is the sunday afternoon name for chip & pin it's europay / mastercard / visa protocol