- ha vai ee. (tropical guitar music) - ha vai ee. - yes. - ha vai ee. - yes. - ha vai ee.
- yes. - okay, so i'm saying it right now. - yes, you are. - hawaii. (bouncy hip hop music) rog rig reboot 2021. number two, jacob, you can't possibly be any more obnoxious than your song. so the way that i see it, this is gonna go really smoothly. - oh, absolutely, yes. (energetic music) oh, my god. (laughs out loud) aloha, my name is jacob. i am from the island of maui in hawaii. (speaks faintly) - come over here, you
gotta come over here. - okay, okay, fine. - this is your computer. all you have to do is build it and not annoy me at all. that's the challenge - okay, i can only do half of that. - all right, you're already annoying me. you're doing that thing that
people do in high school, okay. where everyone starts talking like this. i heard your real voice over there. - i mean-
- see, he did it, he did it, he did it. - he's annoying me. i'm trying to get my computer so i could get back to my real home, which is much more warmer than here. so thanks for bringing me all the way from hawaii to canada, to freeze my bums, to make this computer, linus! (grunts loudly) i come from a huge line of big samoan, tongan, hawaiian people. well, like if a guy like
linus tries to intimidate me, i don't think he's gonna have a good time. - where do you start? - from what you taught me, linus. start with the motherboard. - you could do that. - i'm not gonna listen to you. do you have something sharp? that i can open this with. - i do, but i don't know
if i'd trust you with it. (laughs out loud) - you shouldn't. - this is some pretty
crazy shizz right here. this is the rg maximus z690 hero. it supports dual gen4
m.2 drives up to 128 gigs and ddr5 6400 mega
transfer per second memory. and of course intel's 12th-gen
alder lake processors, but you knew all that, right. - i'm not gonna be a real smart ass. but i understand half of what you said. - good, wow. that's pretty good, actually. i'm impressed.
- really. - now do something. - okay, i'll try. - i like the technique, sort of, you were doing really great, until half the packaging
came out with the board. - god, wait, wait, what? okay, there we go. and based on what you taught me. - well studied. - i have. - by the way, don't make a mess. put that away. (plastic pops softly) - like that. - no, go get it. put it in there. we're gonna contain the chaos. this is gonna be the
tidiest pc build ever. find your cpu. man, you've got so much cool stuff here. - this is more than all my student loans. i'm assuming this is the cpu. 'cause, it's the only
thing that says intel. hey, i'm doing pretty good so far. and wow, this is actually. - what are you doing pretty good so far? you opened a motherboard box. maybe where everything's chill. you can just be like, oh yeah, i opened a box
i'm doing really great. but over here you have to
actually build the computer. this is the west coast, we're not chill. - hey, i'm more west coast than you. i'm actually from the
west side of my island. - goddamn!
- see, yes! (whoops loudly) - oh, wow.
- this is it. core i9-12900k top of the flippin' line. eight performance cores. eight efficiency cores. and the hilarious part, efficiency cores are about
equivalent to haswell or somewhere between haswell and skylake. so are you ready? - yeah. - okay, how is it going? - it is that. flip. (grunts softly) - oh, you were doing
really well up until now. you managed to open the box. - i'm trying to be very
gently here, come on. - two hands. he's got the two hands. he's using the two hands technique. (grunts loudly) - there we go. there (whoops loudly). - you're actually doing
amazingly well so far considering that you're
from such a tiny island. so what's gonna be next. - next. i like how you're expecting me to fail and be stupid about this. - well, so far, pretty much everyone has. and quite frankly, i haven't seen anything to
change those expectations yet. - okay, okay, oh, there we go. that's what i'm looking for, the memory.
- nice. he remembered, get it, memory. - yes. (sputters loudly) - now this memory looks basic. you know, look at that. it's just the bare sticks from crucial, but this is 128 gigs of memory. - are you for real? - look, watch. see, real, see that's weird. stop touching me. - i'm not sure how that goes. - 128 gigs of flipping ram. hey, thanks, crucial. my understanding is that you
are going to be using this, not just for gaming, but
also for productivity. you fancy yourself a bit of
a video editor, 3d modeler. - pretty much, i spend
my time making videos for clients back on
maui and on my downtime i try to get into 3d modeling, but it's just that my
computer is so horrible at trying to just run it. i can't even see what i'm trying to make, like the details of my models are just completely non-existent. - it's gonna be a game-changer. you know what's cool about ddr5 is they actually moved the pmic which is the power management
ic onto the module. so it used to be that
all your power management was on the motherboard, like
around the ddr4 memory slots. but on ddr5, it just takes whatever voltage
power supply is outputting into the motherboard and then pumps that into the module. and then it steps it down from there. - i grasped all, i feel that the only
part that i truly grasp was i thought you said, "penis". (laughs out loud) - pmic. - p.
- p-m-i-c. - i can only think of penis. pmic, there we go. - it must be an island thing. (grunting loudly) - is it? no, it's supposed to click. (groovy upbeat music) that's not the kind of click i want. i honestly can't tell. - it's not in. - are you for real? - that's what she said about it. - son of a (laughs out loud). okay, i'll take it out. i'll take, (beep) this is going so well. - do your thing. - there, that's how it's done. - audience, is that how it's done? - andy, i thought you
were helping me out here. - well, he is helping you. he's helping you by telling
you you didn't do it right. (grunts softly) like you mean it. there we go.
- there we go. there we go. - love it. (grunts loudly) now, hold on a second. i think we've got something cool. see, you wouldn't appreciate this because you've only got hot weather on your island over there, swacket v2. got the zippers on the pockets. got the extra pocket
in there for the phone. - i'm not gonna front that
actually looks really good. - yeah, right. - like that looks really clean.
- reflective. can you put the ram in please? what are you waiting for? i thought we were gonna
put the computer together. - hold on, i've been waiting for you. - my job is to be the model. i'm the model. you're the computer put-together guy. not the other way around. - i mean, i'm not sure if
people wanna see a model, that's like fugly. - fugly.
- yes. - did you just call me fugly? - yes. - while i am giving you a free computer. - yes. (laughs out loud) - you know i don't have
to give you the computer. - hey, don't be rushing in
with all these judgments. - asus pays me to make the video. it's my call if you get the computer. so you try again. - okay, you are a very beautiful. - don't kiss ass. - smart bearded man. - try again. be objective, be objective. you have to be honest. - you are a very smarter person than me. - he keeps trying to suck up. - okay, okay, fine, fine.
- just say something true. say something authentic. - you have a beard. - that's really good. (laughs out loud) - oh, my god, okay. (ram clicks softly) - there you go. - awesome. - 128 gigs of ddr5. hey, he's got it. - i'm picking things up. - i like it. we're doing the tidiest pc build ever. - and i guess we can start installing the ssds now, right. - i mean it depends, right. you gotta look at them. - oh, right. - what kind of ssds are they? - do they work? - well, they work. - i have no doubt crucial
has amazing stuff. - who needs to watch gamersnexus anymore? jacobsreviews.com. someone's gonna buy that domain and turn it into the most horrible thing. $1,595, jacobsreviews.com for sale. - can i sell this pc to get that? (laughs out loud) - wouldn't recommend it. stick with what you know. (tropical guitar music) i loved your video. so that video editing seems a good plan. - that is a lie. (laughs out loud) - why would i lie? i just watched it. it was great. i liked the coconut tree bit. - all right, so try to get this back in and like that. - that's it, that's all. - four terabytes, what? - four terabytes. you're gonna have five total terabytes of solid-state storage. it's gonna be grand. so you're gonna have to, you can see, this is the bigger spot
you need the bigger thing to come off for the bigger drives. - i highly doubt that's true. - it goes under here. - i don't think that's right. - where else would you put it? - there's a separate cable
that connects to this, right. - well, they'll have to take this off and see if it goes
under there to find out. - you better not be screwing with me. - okay, i'm screwing with you. (laughs out loud) - i was like, i knew it. i was right. but then i was like second-guessing. i was like, am i gonna cave into linus? - you did, you caved. everyone caves. - all right so now that we
got the nvme in and the cpu and the ram. the case. - you could do that. (inhales deeply) (grunts loudly) i'm just gonna stand here. yeah, harder than it looks. - yes. - to not drop things. (mutters loudly) jacob, are you okay back there? do you need some privacy? - oh, no, i'm okay. - i don't know. i think we should ask him what he's doing climbing
all these coconut trees. you know what i'm saying. why you gotta climb a coconut tree jacob? - nearly there. - ooh, this is actually very nice. - yeah, this is the meshify
2 from fractal design. - there should be screws
to go with the case in order for me to keep
the motherboard in, right. (linus hums softly) - the best part of rog rig reboot is that they're all fine
when i'm not like laying into them while the camera's rolling and the pressure's on and
the lights are bright. and it's like (squealing softly). (bouncy hip hop music)
(laughs out loud) okay, now, wait, hold on. this is actually dangerous
what you're doing right now, you're about a centimeter back from where the motherboard needs to be. and if you had a board that
has like a armor on the back or something like that, you'd be fine to just kind
of scrape it in there, but you do not. so you see this bare pcb and all these fragile-looking components. you knock one of these caps
off the back of this board. it's dead, i do not have
another one for you. when you're putting it in. you wanna line up this middle hole here with the nubbin right there. that's what you want. because that way to get it into position, you're not gonna be scrapey
scraping it all over the place, but i'm not gonna do it for you. i mean, if people wanted
to tune in to watch someone who actually knows what they're doing, build computers, they would
watch "linus tech tips" other than rog rig reboot. - there we go. - not bad. - i'm assuming. - assume makes an ass out of you and me. - i hope mostly you not me. - ass you me, get it, assume. - oh, my god.
- words to live by. - you are so old. (laughs out loud) - now at least he's being honest. - and i'm supposed to put them in the four corners, right. - nine, but sure. - nine, oh, okay. (screwdriver clicking softly) - and that should be good. wait, what the hell screw did you use? - wait, did i use the wrong one? - hold on, get a close up of this. okay, let me see what
screws you using this time. yeah, these. what are you doing johnny? - it's jacob. - i know. - my brother's name is jonathan. - really. - [jacob] yeah, there we go. - now i know you're gonna
be doing creative stuff with the machine, but you are planning to play some games too, right. (gentle guitar music) - basically, some aaa
games like cyber punk, if it'll ever work. and red dead redemption 2. i kinda like playing around
with graphic settings, see how well computers can run on the highest settings and stuff. i think that might be the
reason why my computer died because i keep trying
to push it more and more and i guess, and dropping it too, - well, you won't be able to kill this by turning the settings up. this should be able to
handle just about anything that you throw at it. yeah, you're gonna be blown away, i think. have you ever even experienced
a high refresh rate monitor? - no. - okay, 'cause we're going to 240 today. - really. holy crap that is actually really awesome. we should probably put
in the power supply. - all right, jamie. - i know you guys got a bunch
of jake's here, but come on. no, that's definitely not the way, oh. (screwdriver clicks loudly) - wow, nice job, jackson. it's really useful
watching novice builders. i mean, i think the
manufacturers of this hardware should be just paying such close attention to this because frankly speaking we kind of talk about how
it's like, oh, it's easy. it's just adult lego, it's not, it's not intuitive necessarily. you really wanna be able to have the lowest common
denominator to build a pc, right. - did you just insult me saying i'm the lowest common denominator. - no, no, no, no, i said
that that's the goal. you're just one of our
stepping stones to get there. - gee, thanks. okay, do i connect this to the top? - absolutely. and then i'm gonna help you with the cable management
back here, all right. - cool, thank you. - you want some more slack. - yes, please. - you want more slack. - yes! the next thing we can do is
the graphics card, right. - no. - oh, the liquid cooler. i forgot about that. (smooches loudly) that's what you do. - it's not even open yet. - you're supposed to treat it with care. what are you doing? - efficient, boom! almost fully unboxed already
and it's taken me seconds. check this out. we got a triple 120-millimeter radiator, rgb freakin' cooling fans. all you have to do is install it. that's good, he goes right
for the mounting hardware. i like it. see everyone else claims to have studied, but you actually studied. - if there's something big
that i'm not fully educated on. i need to prepare myself. - where are you going? i could have handed it to you. - oh, thank you. but like, can i please have it back dad? - wait, hold on. this is your third attempt
to win rog rig reboot. - yeah. - oh, that's hilarious. hold on, is this still up? we have to watch it together. (dramatic music) (linus laughs out loud) - this is simple. and then that was the first year. - oh, that's cute. - that's cute. - nah, it is. i like it. so wait, is that the same
machine you're still running? - yeah. (exhales sharply) - let's get it replaced. - i'll show you the second one later. - oh, now that's interesting. asus and their infinite wisdom, bless them for sponsoring this series, has designed these fans with little, like they're not level. you see that andy. this might cost you a little bit in terms of static pressure. so performance might not
be quite what it could be, but for maintenance, you are going to want the fans pulling air through the radiator like
this because it means that cleaning the dust off of the bottom is super easy, right. so now what you gotta do, (cooler clicks softly) is get that boy on there. you just go, bam! - whoa, you gotta treat it with care. you gotta be, like i said,
(smooches) like that. - first, you gotta get the
mounting hardware on there. - there we go, four. - wow, you managed to
pick out the right ones. i don't think that has ever
happened on rog rig reboot. - i'm smarter than you think, linus. - did you just say you're
smarter than ethan? - no, ethan, if you're watching this,
i did not say that. oh, my god, he lives here. - this guy, jeffrey. - jacob! - this guy says that he's smarter than you because he
figured out the cpu cooler better than you did. - i did not.
- what would you say to that? - he is saying taking it out of context, ethan. you are an amazing human being and i would never insult you. - look how hurt he is. (laughs out loud) - i'm not gonna lie, i still don't know much about computers - get your thinking out of here. go run "channel super fun". (laughs out loud) did you know he works here? - no. - literally dropping sick
burns on our previous winners not knowing that some of
them are in the building. - oh, my god.
- we got two. - see building a computer is easy. building a computer
while a camera operator can see what you're doing. not as easy. - that really adds to the pressure. - and andy puts a lot of pressure. you know he's like computer expert too. he's judging you. - really.
- yes. - did you really did
you see the rig he did for his intel extreme tech upgrade? - no. - it was like this big. - i mean, i knew that you broke his bed. (laughs out loud) - [andy] that's part of it. - oh, my god. - in fairness to me, it looked a lot more
solid than it was though. there are a lot of hanging hangers here. let's see what we can do about that. - that's not helping. stop it. - it's a pc and a cat toy. - can i have your hand real fast? nope (grunts). (hand slaps loudly)
(linus squeals loudly) that's what you get for finicking with all this technology,
you deserve that. - it wasn't that bad of a punishment. it's just a slap on the wrist. - i like how we're both
tiptoeing right now. - we actually can lower the table. andy's not exactly tall either. - oh, thank you.
- whoa, jesus. - what? you thought you were growing taller. - i wasn't sure what was happening. felt kinda seasick there for a second. - welcome to "jacob tech tips". wait, this is not "jacob tech tips". this is "jacob short-quickie". we're unboxing a new asus. - [andy] short-quickie. (laughs out loud) - i'm just gonna unbox this. holy crap, do you see this? (buttons clacking softly) oh, those are nice keys. i'll just take this out. (shrieks softly)
(platic thuds softly) okay, let's see. oh, what's this? oh, it's a numb pad. hey andy, you should probably
get some picture of me pretending that i'm listening to music. (grunts loudly) i only thought i was just gonna get this. but this, i am like, what? (grunts loudly) come on. (box thuds softly) let's get back to building. i'm assuming it's this one. - no, this is some sexy
boy-on-boy action right here. first all-male kiss on "ltt". that looked like more than a kiss too. - i'm gonna assume you're gonna cut that and be like, oh, i
know where this goes, now. it goes with this. - he assumes we're gonna cut that. - please do it. where did i put that? 'cause i assume you can't just
leave it hanging like that. - yeah, you'd think that. - really. - that's what pc is about, choice. - so you just wanna
leave it like that then. - there's lots of options. i mean, that is one of the
options i believe in you. - oh, wait, is it possible to use this? (tropical guitar music) - why don't you rewind? okay, here, i'm gonna be your timeline. (both murmur loudly) - over here. - oh, dude, we (speaks faintly) too far. - there's screws on the back of these so i can put screws on here. okay, okay, all right. i am smart again. that's weird, i only have. - what the heck happened to your screws? - not sure. (plastic rustling drowns
out linus and jacob) is this it? - yeah, there it is. - you're the one that put it in this bag. so it's your fault. not mine. - i believe the footage will show that i did not in fact put that in there. - the footage will tell that it was him not me
- that goes in there. (jacob sighs loudly)
(linus murmurs melodically) i'll help you. - thank you, oh, okay, there we go. - all right, then it has
to come through here. - you are so immature. - what? all i'm saying is put the
thing through the glory hole. (laughs out loud) just do this already, god. - [linus] it's gpu time. - the fact that i'm this close proximity with it is amazing. - [linus] wait until you see how much it weighs and how big it is. - you are not kidding this
thing is really heavy. (plastic rustling softly) what? i'm sorry for those who
can't buy one right now, i would give this to you. but unfortunately, i
need it for my computer. - wow, wow! - i mean like at least i'm not trying to sell it three times the price. - that's fair actually. - this gpu probably has more memory than your old system. - my laptop had two gigs, two gigs. it was horrible. - just don't wreck it. - i will try not to. (graphics card clicks softly) - not bad. good technique. this is it, moment of truth. you wanna fire it up. - oh, yeah, sure. - let's fire it up. (button clicks softly) - so much power. oh, my god. wow, this is really clean too. the rgb is actually not that bad
- good turnout. - [andy] rgb looks really good. - now i asked you to
unbox some peripherals, where the devil are they? - they're all here. - 240 hertz, 1440p i guarantee you it'll feel different. it's different. - oh, no, like i can totally
tell the difference now, wow. i don't have to play video games. i can just play this as a game. - playing mouse as a game. - playing mouse as a game,
enjoying the 240 hertz (laughs). - all right, why don't we find you a game to play? 'cause, that's sad. - all right, cool. hey. - you're kidding. oh, wow, bad timing. wow, i like it. - it's what made me come here. so i figured i'd bring it. - oh, that's for me. oh, thank you. - yeah, not a problem.
- how do i look? - [andy] you look great. - everyone that entered
to rog rig reboots. this is my third time trying
and i almost did not do it. so please keep trying. and you never know what could happen. there we go. getting there.
- rog. (leaves rustling loudly) - is that good? - asus can throw that on their website, audible with that. - compatible with (speaks faintly). so it's all good. - [linus] okay, so how's 400 fps sound? - [jacob] jesus christ, that is sick! - is that enough fps for you. - more than enough, my god. - 'cause i can get rid of some of 'em. we can underclock it. - this is totally cool. thank you so much for all this. oh, there we go. come on, come on, come on, oh, no! - wow, 82 damage. if only you had something
other than a pea shooter, you actually would have had 'em. got red dead redemption going as well for something a little bit slower pace, might be more your speed. more island speed. (bright guitar music) - [jacob] looks amazing, my god. and the color accuracy on
this monitor is amazing too. - [linus] and it's yours. - it is mine, i can't believe. - as soon as we fix a couple things. so little awkward, but
we broke your side panel. - really. - it wasn't entirely our fault. it's tempered glass and
sometimes things happen, but it'll look like
this without the cracks. - noway! (laughs) holy crap that looks so sick. - it's shattered. we're gonna get that for
ya' and that's it, congrats. - cool, thank you so much. - enjoy the new machine and you guys, (fingers click softly) enjoy the next episode of rog rig reboot, which is coming very soon. (bass-thumping electronic music) - oh, i just died. how much was for the pc? 'cause i do not feel
comfortable getting it for free. can you take my wallet please? thank you ltt and asus
rog for the new rig.