- today i have been given a
seemingly simple challenge, build a gaming pc using
parts from walmart. now, walmart, as you will likely know, has actually sold some
pretty decent gaming pcs and gaming laptops in the past. but actually building an entire gaming pc, that might be a slightly
more difficult challenge. so i'm gonna just start
out with a processor. okay, well i found a ryzen 7 3800x and this is sold from walmart. sold and shipped by walmart. i found a thing. they sell processors
directly from walmart. i mean a 3800x is a slightly weird choice. but i mean 340 bucks. that's all reasonable. ooh this is gonna be tough though. wait can i sort out? yeah, retailer, walmart.com. oh wow. they literally have one cpu. i have no other choices. everything else is sold
through third party. that's gonna make this
slightly more complicated. uh oh. uh oh. oh, they have them. they sell motherboards. i mean, $270 for a b550
board is a little bit extreme but i mean that counts. an x570-p for $127. that's actually. - that's real good - that's a good deal. - huh? - let me see hang on. so for the x570. which one is that? but it's still actually cheaper. it's $150 at micro center. - [ken] walmart's got them rollbacks - now where i think we're
gonna have an issue, is a graphics card. okay so, we have a gtx 730. we have a 8400-gs, 5450. - wait. - [austin] a 5700, wait what? - [ken] why? - why does walmart sell this? i am not, oh, don't make me use this. - that's shipped and
sold on, oh that's funny. - [austin] what kind of
ram does walmart have? they actually have several options. 3200 megahertz for 105 bucks. - [ken] that's not terrible. - that's not bad. i mean, there's wait, there's
a single one-star review. why is there a single one star review? paid for it but did not get it. jacob. (laughing) should we try it? - [ken] yeah sure.
- okay. oh, wait, wait, what about case? do you think their gonna have a pc case? - [ken] they might. they might have like a few. - ooh, not a lot. oh, oh. no, they have some options,
they have some options. i kinda wanna do this one. okay, let's find a power supply. 65 bucks for a 750
watt, evga power supply. they have a 600, 500. it's all evga and we can just get the bronze, 65 bucks. i mean, this pricing seems fine. oh, do you want a hyundai ssd? - [ken] excuse me? they make ssds? - [austin] hyundai ssd. - [ken] do they have kia graphics cards? - i'm just gonna check
one thing while i'm here. we're just missing one thing
for the, it's free shipping. so i'm just gonna take advantage of it. all right, you know, i'll just grab a few pokemon
cards while i'm here. (coughing) all right. so technically i have found
everything that i need to build a walmart gaming pc. the only questionable bit
really is the graphics card. - the rules of this video are very clear. we have to buy all of our
pc components from walmart. i think i might have a
way to skirt the rules. 'cause for as long as
walmart has our money, it shouldn't really matter. (upbeat music) - headphones. audio. oh pc, okay. oh, there's a pavilion desktop here. ryzen 5 3500 and 1650 super. that's actually not bad,
that's not bad at all. - [ken] how much is it though? - $599 i think. - [ken] we actually have
made that system before just with a ryzen 3 and
it was the same price. - this is probably going
to be just about as good as our system that we're
spending 3 times the price on. - [ken] okay, well, now's
a good time to tell you that we came to the
electronics section for nothing because we don't need anything
in this section at all. - we have no graphics card. we have no graphics card,
no onboard video, nothing. - [ken] come with me. - i don't go to walmart every day but if i had to take a guess, i'm gonna say that there's
not a lot of graphics cards inside walmart. so there's probably some
shenanigans going on. that seems like a very
safe bet at this point. - so ignoring the copyrighted music, in the foot of every walmart, they have the section
of impulse buy, palooza, including gift cards as
far as the eye can see. and by as far as the eye can see, i mean literally here. - [austin] look, you
got a lot of dumb ideas. this is up there among like the top seven. - how much is a graphics card? (laughing) - look, i'm walking to
the back of the store. ken's all confident about
the electronic section, i see gaming pcs i'm like, okay, i can
see where this is going, we're just going to buy a gaming pc. but no, it's somehow even more stupid. and we're buying a prepaid gift card to purchase said graphics
card on walmart.com like i could have from the beginning. but if it's that or
throwing a prepaid gift card at my system without a
graphics card, i guess. okay, so we have now received all of our mini, mini
walmart gaming pc components. all right, so let me refresh
what we actually got. oh, i think i know what this is. actually i opened this one before, i actually know what this one is. - [ken] is it your m2? - no, i didn't get m2. i got a hyundai - [ken] oh it's a hyundai drive. (motor rumbling) - now of course one of the
most important components of any build is what's inside this box, which are my pokemon cards. so i will be unboxing these. - [ken] wait. - yeah, yeah, yeah let's get
all this stuff out of the way. let me open up my reshiram box. so walmart is the fine
purveyor of many things. wait, what are you doing? are you opening pokemon
cards with me right now? oh, okay. why'd you put the camera on
the tripod and walk away? - [ken] i can't be bothered to walk away. - oh you've just given up? okay, fine. that's fine. (upbeat music) hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. - [ken] huh, what, what, wait, wait. - stop, stop, stop. - [ken] what, what, what, what? - i brought sleeves. - [ken] oh, oh. - don't bend them. i need my psa 10. look, i like pokemon cards okay? deal with it. i'm gonna be all defensive now because people keep throwing
the word addiction around and i don't like that word. i prefer to think of it as a very well fulfilled hobby. - that's what addicts say. at some point, i wouldn't be
surprised if he bet his car or bet the company on a
couple of gen one decks or boosters or whatever,
whatever it is that he buys. - another pikachu, a cottony, and oh, a full art trainer card, look at that. that's worth like multiple dollars. maybe like two, i don't
know, but we'll sleeve that. that's actually pretty cool. i'm curious to see what
this case looks like. all right, let's see what we got what is this? why? why should i be able to put
my finger in the fan blade? i mean i guess it's for airflow but couldn't you put some
mesh on it or something? - [ken] no, too much money. - i mean, i will say this
tempered glass side panel is definitely half the
weight of the entire case. looks pretty standard
in here, very simple. we've got enough room
for a full sized board. we have direct air flow
and we do have a little bit of a basement for a power supply. should be easy enough. - [ken] this probably isn't
gonna make it in the video. something interesting. - so they have put the
sticker on the side, right? so when you put it face
down in your chassis, when you know that you're
going to hide it, that's fine. you're gonna see this. it's just there. however, if you're going to
be putting this power supply in facing up, what they've done is they've actually given you
the nice little embossed evga. so essentially if you
have a cheaper system, and your showing off the power supply, it actually looks a little bit better. (upbeat music) (upbeat music continues) (upbeat music continues) all right, so we are almost done building the walmart gaming pc. so, some of our cable management in this case is not stellar. i also don't know how we're
gonna control these fans because there's no way to
connect them to the motherboard. but that seems like a
problem for future us. let's install our very expensive work station gray, graphics card. more box, why? why? okay, so makes this different from a standard radeon card besides the very attractive blue coloring, is more so what's on the
outside than on the inside. because on the inside, this is
a very similar gpu and set up to what you would have if you
were using a standard 5700 xt. now here you'll see
something a little different. we have five mini display
ports and a usb-c. so this is designed really as
a card that you can connect to multiple monitors. six, if you're counting. or you could also use it for things like 3d rendering and what not. and a lot of the differences
really do come down to the software that you use to run the card. specifically, the drivers are different. you're going to want to use the
specific radeon pro drivers, which have a lot of
optimizations for things like blender and other
professional grade applications. i will say our color scheme, maybe looking a little
bit unusual for this. all right, let's swap this
in and see how it looks. (cheerful music) i mean, that's not going anywhere. all right. and so this is the
completed walmart gaming pc. so as you can see, there's rgb everywhere. we have it all around,
not only the power button and all of our leds here, we
have two giant 200 mil fans. so inside we have a ryzen 7 5800 x, 32 gigs of ram, the radeon pro graphics, as well as we have our hyundai ssd. so to compare, we have our
micro center mid-range special. now this is the system that we built for the last episode of broke vs pro. so this is a roughly $1,100 system. inside, we have a core i5 9400. but importantly, we also have a 36 dti. so while the cpu is not
particularly powerful. what is, is should at
least be the graphics card. now mind you, that's a $450 graphics card compared to 700 bucks. but importantly, this is
actually meant for gaming. if this doesn't win, i'm
gonna be very surprised. although, you know, i feel like when i was doing the test against kyle, it was like 8,000 something, wasn't it? - [ken] i think so. - i think it was like 88 or
something and he was like 91. so just to confirm, we
have a ryzen 7 3800 x. no slouch of a cpu whatsoever. and our radeon pro w 5700 graphics. if i had to take a guess, i'm gonna say this is somewhere around 7500. so this is similar to a 5700 xt, but there are some differences,
the memory is different. and also typically, although
i don't actually know if it is card, but typically
the pro cards don't have like these crazy game booth clocks, they're a little bit more stable because then you want to render and blender for 20 hours
at a time or whatever. oh, oh that's actually a
lot closer than i thought. so not only is this boosting way higher than it's supposed to, but that score, that's actually really good. look, i'm actually pretty impressed with the walmart gaming pc. i mean, no, it's not gonna crush your crisis cyberpunk 4k benchmark or anything but it's actually completely
usable as a gaming pc. and obviously it has all of
the pro level performance of a radeon pro card. however, i still think
that once we fire up the micro center special,
it'll easily wipe the floor with the walmart system. all right. and the reveal is. come on. come on. woo, okay. all right. so walmart was 8690 this is 9831. okay, so my memory was
off, this is better. all right, we're safe, we're fine. the walmart gaming pc was a bad idea. it's really the cpu score
was what was dragging it down because the graphic score was way higher. this backs up that i'm not a crazy person and that i only buy dumb things on walmart for clickbait title. yeah, i think so, yeah. i don't think there's any. was there a point for this video? - [ken] no, no one's gonna do this ever. - so wait, so i'm not giving
like useful consumer advice on. - [ken] no.
- oh, okay. well, thank you very much for watching. make sure to subscribe for
other non-consumer advice, videos like this, where i
tell you things not to do that you weren't gonna
do in the first place.