- [linus] a portion of this video is sponsored by adobe photoshop lightroom, watch to the end to learn more. there are two types of displays, those for consuming content
and those for creating it. and while they have a lot in common, there are some key ways that they differ with the main one being color gamut. you're probably already aware
that a wider color gamut means your display can recreate
a broader range of colors, but what exactly are
srgb, adobe rgb, dci-p3. and why have creative types
been spending tens of thousands of dollars on monitors
that have more of them? could this be the game
changer that stops all that, turning those expensive
beasts into dinosaurs? and can we game on it even if
we're not really supposed to? yes. yes, of course we will. if you guessed that the rgb
stands for red, green, blue, you're right. standard rgb or srgb
was created back in 1996 by hp and microsoft. and it's basically our
default color space, used for monitors, printers, and just about anything
you look at online. but srgb being 25 years old at this point, wasn't the most forward-looking standard. and we've come a long way. think of the color spectrum like a rainbow and srgb kind of like a small sampling of those available colors. speaking of colors, the
northern lights desk pad, finally back in stock, pick
yours up today at lttstore.com. well, that's where the newer big boy color space has come in, adding more and more of
the human visible spectrum. so a monitor with full coverage of the dci-p3 color space, for example, can display a colored gamut
about 25% wider than srgb. but that's also where
the problems come in. because when a piece of content is created or mastered in one color space
and then consumed on a device that doesn't properly support it, you can end up with over-saturated or unnatural looking colors. now the obvious solution would be to just have content creators use calibrated versions of
the same cheapo monitors that we use at home. but that introduces a whole
host of other problems. like how could they adjust a color that their camera captured, but their display cannot represent? how can they ensure that their
masterpiece will look right on a higher fidelity
screen, like in the cinema? that's why colorists
demand superior displays which for film work can
easily reach 30 or $40,000. now obviously for smaller content creators or even small studios that
kind of cost is out of reach. and that is where the
32ep950 comes in from lg. it features a 4k oled panel for blacks that are
completely devoid of light. remember, the individual
pixels can be turned off, and it boasts 99% coverage
of both the dci-p3 and adobe rgb color spaces. unlike some of the larger
oled displays out there, it's only 31 and a half inches. we'll get back to that
missing half inch later. and it runs at a refresh rate of 60 hertz, which isn't the best, but remember it's not
for consuming content, it's for creating it. but i still wanna game on what is on paper the best display i've ever looked at. this is my first time seeing this game on such a wide gamut monitor, but i don't notice a difference. and i shouldn't because if we're in sdr, we're only making use of srgb anyway. many consumer, in fact, most
consumer monitors these days are able to achieve pretty
close to 100% coverage of srgb. let's switch over to hdr though. probably wanna crank our (indistinct) this is an oled monitor, and. here it is. we can verify if we're
in the right color space. yep, so we're in bt.2100 hdr. and theoretically, this
is the widest color gamut i've ever seen on a monitor. honestly, speaking, this is such a kind of muted scene that i kind of wanna try a
different part of the game. oh wow. this looks pretty. man, this is still a good looking game even after it's been a few years now. with that said, it's gorgeous. but to my eye, it's not, you know, can we try this side-by-side with like just a consumer grade ips panel
that's also been calibrated. - [plouffe] for sure.
- you thought of that? - [plouffe] yeah, we've got one. - we have one, of course we do. now to be clear, this is still a monitor that
costs $2,000 brand new, but. i mean, i can't. boy. okay. okay, this is higher contrast for sure. even though the one on the right is rated for a peak
brightness of a thousand nits. i'm definitely retaining more detail on the dark portions of the scene. and i'm gonna switch it again. now there's still lots of
detail in the dark portions, and this is very nice. as a sanity check, we restarted the game with the lg monitor completely disconnected just
in case there was some kind of tone mapping problem switching
from one to the next, and. yeah, it still looks great. but even if we can't tell the difference between this and like a $2,000 monitor, why don't we go full
consumer like $600 monitor, like high-end consumer. maybe then we will see it. one thing to consider before we do this, is that monitors at this price point, don't generally support hdr, or at least don't really
support it properly. so i'm just gonna double-check
that both of our displays are in srgb because that's the color space you'd be in for sdr. and i'm gonna use the
little nipple navigation that personally, i am quite partial to. like this convenient, quick color space changer in the space. you need to make sure that
you're in srgb mode as well. okay. that is a difference. honestly speaking, i don't know that i like
the oled picture better. - [brandon] i was about
to say the same thing. - plouffe is this what's
supposed to happen? - [plouffe] you're supposed to get more correct colors, right? people tend to like brighter images and more saturated images. - [brandon] and i would
agree that like the left probably looks closer to
like, if this was real life, that's what i would probably look like. - [plouffe] a lot of people
actually prefer oversaturation. - will the game output adobe rgb? do any games support adobe rgb? - [plouffe] i don't think so. no. it'll try its best to
sort of tone map to it. it's not gonna be perfect. most games are still
made with srgb in mind because people don't have
expensive monitors or tvs. - okay. well, one of the problems is
that we've got the brightness way down on this. and to the human eye, higher brightness does tend to look better at least to a point. so let's go ahead and fix that up. get them kind of similar, actually that looks,
yeah, it looks very close. it's an oled already. the last thing you wanna do
is set it to 25% brightness. okay. this looks a lot closer. now we don't have quite the
same kind of green cast. and i would say that it's pretty clear that this is the better
looking in srgb mode. the difference is really not as much as you might want though, obviously this moss or whatever this is, is more vibrant in spite of the fact that they're both in the same color space. and if we wanted to try
out a different color space like adobe rgb, we'd
probably see more pop to it. yes we do. but that's just telling mapping. that's not 'cause the
content is actually supposed to look like that. with this one, you can obviously tune your
saturation or whatever, but you can't actually
change the color space that it is representing. it's just srgb, just
adjusted to look worse. as hard as it is to tell the difference, it's absolutely beautiful. probably the best looking
monitor i've ever seen. and if it wasn't stuck at 60 hertz, i mean, i can see how high-end
gamers would be tempted. before you ask by the way,
we did try overclocking it, no dice, not even 61 hertz. after speaking with the
senior engineer at lg, we learned that a higher
refresh rate panel is on the horizon and they're working on
variable refresh rate support. but you've got to understand
that the method they use to drive a panel with individual
self illuminated pixels, it's not the same as lgs
other gaming displays and getting this stuff tuned takes time. color accuracy was the highest priority and everything else went by the wayside. and if disney pixar's
take is anything to go by, it looks like lg nailed it. they have actually endorsed this display which is very uncommon for disney, who tries to stay neutral when it comes to just about everything. it's not as good as a
$30,000 mastery monitor, particularly when it comes to brightness, which we'll talk more about later. but it is good enough to
get most of the way there. so the idea is to have most of the team using the 32ep950 for
their day-to-day work, then have one or maybe two people with expensive mastery
monitors to double-check it and make corrections as they see fit. and this is actually
the setup that they used for the film "luca". it's also a much more portable
solution to work from home compared to such professional beasts, which has become more and more common in the last couple of years. it is very light, at just 5.3 kilograms
or just under 12 pounds. and it is really thin compared to some of the
other professional displays that we've looked at in the past. by comparison, the 1600 nit, asus pa32ucg takes up a ton of desk space and it requires a more robust arm if you wanna clamp it to your desk. the 32ep950 is equipped with two display port 1.4
connections, hdmi 2.0, which i guess makes sense since it can't do 4k 120 hertz anyway, a usb hub to easily connect
peripherals with further cables, usb-c with 90 watts of power delivery. if you want it to connect and charge your laptop
with a single cable. and of course, a good old
fashioned headphone jack. as for the downsides,
i'd say glare is an issue even with the anti-glare
coating that they put on. so you'll wanna make sure
that your home office has some blinds for those sunny days. and as great as oled looks, there's always gonna be a bit
of fear regarding burn-in, especially when you consider
that many professional tools have static on-screen elements that will be there for probably 90% of the displays lifetime. okay. well, that's where that
half inch of screen space that's missing comes in. check this out. this second inner bezel here that goes all the way around the screen, it's kind of distracting
once you notice it. but it does serve a purpose. it actually gives the screen
50 pixels on all sides to shift the image
around helping to reduce the chance of burn-in. take this with a grain of salt, but anecdotally our
engineering contact of lg hasn't seen any of these
displays suffering from burn-in. and he told us that as
long as you're not blasting a single spot of light, or a super bright light for
very extended periods of time, it should be fine for years to come. now, when testing ours with
calman's color checker software, we got an average delta e out
of the box of 1.5 in srgb, and adobe rgb mode. that's not perfect. but it's pretty darn good out of the box. and anyone willing to shell
out for this kind of display is gonna wanna calibrate it themselves before they get to work anyway. it unfortunately doesn't
come with a colorimeter like some other expensive displays. so you'll just have to consider
that it's gonna cost you another two or $300 on
top of the price tag. though you'll only need one colorimeter if you're planning on buying a handful of these for your studio. speaking of the price are
two other issues with this, are price and hdr support. the 32ep950 is vesa
certified, hdr true black 400. what that means is that
while it gets plenty dark, because you can turn the pixels off, it suffers from the same
pitfalls as other oleds, meaning that it can't get that bright. and it's only really suitable for an optimal hdr viewing experience in a fairly light controlled environment. it just can't achieve the same kind of crazy high nits peak brightness that we've seen on recent
monitors, like the odyssey neo g9 and the proart pa32ucg from asus. with that being said, there's only one higher rating currently for true black hdr, 500. so you're probably not
missing out on much. and that's for the price. there's two ways of looking at that. now on the one hand, $4,000
is a crap ton of money, and i wish it was cheaper. because i mean, who wouldn't want just
perfectly calibrated colors all the time on everything. but on the other hand, at a thousand dollars, less
than a top tier proart, it's a bargain if you were
shopping in that price range, and you can even save a g by dropping down to the smaller 27 inch version. and for the apple crowd, the direct comparison would be something like the apple pro display xdr, which costs a thousand dollars more, and doesn't come in a smaller,
cheaper alternative model. it also doesn't have 99%
coverage of adobe rgb. but what it does have
is the ability to work seamlessly with mac ios. by contrast, the 32ep950
works with apple products, but getting it to look just right, involves changing icc
profiles and an edid override. the engineer we talked to
actually wrote a 16 page document with instructions on getting it to work. so if you do go the apple route, you won't get quite the same,
it just works experience. but the good news is you
can pay yourself handsomely to fiddle around with the money that you save on monitor stands. and this portion of the
video is sponsored by adobe. adobe photoshop lightroom
is the cloud-based service that gives you everything
you need to create, edit, organize store, and
share photos across any device. we use lightroom to edit all
of our photos on lttstore.com, to make sure that our match
and our models look their best. lightroom offers easy to use editing tools from presets to detailed adjustments to make your photos stand out. and you can start your project
on mobile, web or desktop and have your edits automatically applied no matter where you are. their new super resolution feature uses artificial intelligence
to increase the resolution of your photos with
astonishingly accurate results. and you don't have to take my word for it. try out adobe photoshop lightroom today at the link down below. thanks again to adobe for sponsoring this portion of the video. thanks for watching guys. if you liked this video, make sure to check out our review of the god king of monitors, the pa32ucg. it's everything that's great about this, except it also does 120 hertz for that extra thousand dollars. although it's full of very local deming's. so you get a little bit of halos. okay, there's no perfect monitor yet.