- hey guys, google had an event today where they completely surprised us by announcing the totally out of the blue pixel 8 and pixel 8 pro,
and the pixel watch too that somehow never leaked. it just completely caught us off guard. i hope you can detect my
sarcasm through the internet, but hey, we dig an event and it has some stuff that i
was really looking forward to, pixel 8 and 8 pro mostly
because i've been a pixel fan even though i know it has these big flaws like the tensor g2 had subpar performance and the somewhat average battery life. but like i still like the pixel and there's a lot that
i was looking forward to for the next stuff. so, they delivered on a lot of that stuff but it also comes with a new price. so, okay, on the outside pixel 8 and 8 pro do still look like pixels, right? i told you they were sticking
with this design language with the visor because
it's very recognizable and they finally have that going for them. but this year it just feels like they rounded everything off like that's the big visible
design update this year, everything's a bit more rounded. and then there's the new colors. now, honestly, i'm just gonna say it. i think it's been a pretty boring year for phone colors across the board, just putting it out there. but with this one it's hazel, rose, and obsidian for the pixel 8 and then obsidian, porcelain, and this new blue color called bay. i think the blue is probably
the most interesting of the whole lineup combined with the new matte finish that's on the back of all the pros. i love that. i think it might be my
favorite alongside matte black. maybe it's a toss up between the two. but then around the front both displays have actually gotten better. so the bezels are a bit thinner and they look pretty uniform
all the way around to me. and then they're both
dramatically brighter up to 2,000 nits peak
brightness on the pixel 8 and 2,400 nits on the 8 pro. i think that's the highest
i've ever seen in a phone. so, i think it should look really good both indoors and outdoors. and then also the smaller pixel 8 is now 120 hertz as well. love that. i know people love just
dismissing 120 hertz on cheaper phones but we're there. now it's not ltpo yet, that's still just the pro. but yeah, just looking at these screens for the limited time
that i spent with them i'm very excited to get
them out in the real world. they're calling it an actua display and a super actua display. not sure why, but i guess
you gotta name everything. but anyway, this year the really big physical change we're
getting with these phones i'm gonna say is the new tensor g3 chip. so, it's the new third
generation of google silicon paired with eight gigs
of ram on the pixel 8 and 12 gigs of ram on the pixel 8 pro. and to be honest, google didn't
really talk that much about, or at least flex very much of like just raw performance improvements. like it's not really about that. i'm gonna have to test these phones to see if they actually improved a lot as far as cpu and gpu,
and just overall power. so definitely get subscribed
to be first to see those reviews when they come out. also here are the battery sizes, the new batteries of these new phones. they're both a tiny bit
bigger than last year. but really the story with the tensor g3 is there is way more tpu and way more processing
power for ai-related tasks and that checks out
because the pixel story has always been all about the software, and that's still super true with these. there is so much software. like the pixel is basically the smartest smartphone in the room. it's not going to wow
you with amazing numbers or incredible build quality, or huge hardware features
or anything like that. it's gonna wow you with very clever software at every corner. so here we're talking there's a new google assistant feature where if you're on a webpage in chrome you can ask the assistant to
summarize the webpage for you and then using the same tech, i imagine that's in google bard, it'll quickly give you a three
or four bullet point summary that's hopefully accurate. a speech-to-text is also now
even faster and more accurate. it's completely on device and does a much better
job also at knowing that ums and uhs are not part
of your actual sentence, so it doesn't write them down. that's smart. they're doing more stuff
with the front facing camera to make stuff like face unlock and unlocking stuff in apps more secure. there's also a new fix-it feature which will proofread your
messages built into the keyboard before you send them with things
like grammar and all that. one of the crazy ones is
the new call screen voice. so if you've used a pixel you know about call screen before which is you're getting a
call, it's an unknown number. you just let the google
assistant screen the call. the new one has a much more human voice that i honestly don't really
know if it's a robot voice or just a recording of a human but it's much more human sounding. and then also it has the chips that pop up that you can hit to respond to people that are now context aware. so if it listens to somebody
say, "hey, i'm a ups driver." you can now hit a button
that immediately says, "oh, you can leave the
package at the doorstep." i got to record this. i'll just let you listen to it. - [google assistant]
hi, i'm a google virtual calling assistant recording this call on behalf of the person
you're trying to reach. can you say what you're calling about? - [courier] i'm trying to
drop off a package for kenny. (no audio) - [google assistant] they
said you can go ahead and leave the package by the front door. (no audio) - [courier] okay, thanks. that's great. (no audio) - [google assistant]
great, i'll see you soon. (beeps) - so yeah, that's pretty good to me. it sounds very human,
but again, i don't know, it could just literally
be a human recording. either way, it says it's
a virtual assistant. but what would a pixel be
without some camera magic? so, let's just jump into
the new camera stuff with the pixel 'cause there's
a lot of software magic here, lot of software magic. so the pixel 8 and 8 pro now share the same upgraded 50
megapixel main camera system. then the 8 also has a
12 megapixel ultra wide but the 8 pro just sends it all the way with a 48 megapixel ultra wide and a 48 megapixel 5x telephoto. and i also really like
the new camera app layout which is now separated basically
into photo and video mode. and then all the various settings and modes are inside of each. so i think it makes a
lot of intuitive sense. you could just switch to photo and then go to a specific photo mode. there's manual controls. it's not the first time i've
seen it laid out this way but when you get so much
stuff happening in the camera you don't wanna move it out or hide it, you just need to sort of
organize it in a capable way. i think this does a good job. so i'll have to save my photo
and video quality analysis for the full review. but like i said, there's
a lot of software features that they've added that just seem, they just get more and
more wild as you go on. so the really insane
one is the magic editor. so you've probably already seen, you can erase people from
the background of photos with magic eraser but now this magic editor
will let you straight up select subjects and just move them around, and completely alter the entire
photo with just a few taps. so they showed me this example
of like moving a subject to a different spot in
a photo on the beach but there's also all kinds of other demos of like changing the sky or changing shadows or
all kinds of other stuff. honestly, it seems like
nothing is off limits. and then there's also a
feature i didn't get footage of but it's called best take, which is like when you're taking a photo of like a group of a bunch of people and you're like, "all right everybody, try to smile at the same time." and you take a bunch of photos but there's always somebody
blinking in one of them. it's never perfect with everyone's faces. you probably see where this is going. so google detects that
you're taking a burst photo of a bunch of people and it will take all of those together, and give you the ability
to tap on people's faces and change them to a different instance of a different face that they're
making at a different time just to stitch together
this frankenstein photo with everyone having perfect faces even though it's a moment
that never happened. what is a photo? (chuckles) but then there's another
one called audio eraser. it's a video editing feature. it's just on the pixel 8 and 8 pro but you can actually use it on any video you've ever
taken in your library. but that literally just
erases background sounds from like a video of a subject. it supposedly works really well, i gotta test this on more stuff but the one they showed
me worked amazingly well. and all of this is
basically along the theme of awesome software magic
enabled by tensor g3. like all of the neural cores and all the things that it's
doing with ai processing is what's enabling all of this awesome, weird, fancy software magic stuff. and then there's two other little things that didn't really fit
into the rest of this video but one is there's a new hole
on the back of the pro phone as you could probably see, and that is a temperature sensor. yeah. actually. so, there's a new
thermometer app on the phone and when you open it, it
asks you to select a material to measure the surface temperature of i guess to be the most accurate. so you pick your material and then you just get
up close to your subject like within two inches
of it and tap to measure, and you get your temperature,
which is it works. it's pretty neat i guess. i don't know that i
would use this very much. you may also notice
that humans are missing from the object selection menu because measuring human temperature is still awaiting fda approval. maybe that'll get added to the menu when it gets approved later this year. although i guess technically you could just tell it you're a ceramic or like a hot liquid or something and measure yourself anyway. i don't know. whatever. there's a temperature
sensor now on the 8 pro. and but the other thing is
number two, the haptics. oh my god, i was typing on these phones and this is like the
number one thing i noticed on the 8 pro is the haptics
are so much stronger. i mean i was just poking around the ui and scrolling a bunch, but
especially when i was typing, the haptics are super
strong and really refined. so there's a difference
between strong haptics and like clean, refined haptics. this was both and i think
that's super underrated. i don't know if they're gonna mention this or put it in the
marketing materials at all but i just love the haptics from the hour or two that
i spent with this phone. all right, quick interjection. there's actually one more thing i wanted to mention with these that's called video boost and it's one of the weirdest, i don't even know if i can call it a software feature actually but it's one of the weirdest things yet. so first of all, it's only
available on the pro pixel. second of all, it doesn't
actually launch with the phone. it's coming soon or later. but basically what it is is you take some video on your pixel and it looks okay at first but then you have it uploaded to the cloud where it then processes
overnight or for a few hours and then comes back to you with a result that looks dramatically better, better hdr plus better color grading, and looks much better than
the video you originally took. i don't know why it's
only on the pro phone. i don't know why it has to
upload to other servers. i don't even know what's happening. it's just this weird video magic feature. it's called video boost. we'll see what happens
if it actually comes out by review time but just
wanted to throw that in there. another weird feature. so then the new prices. so, pixel 8 is gonna start at 699 which is a hundred bucks
more than last year. and then the pixel 8 pro
is gonna start at 999. i think you can justify it though. i mean the base pixel just got
upgraded to 120 hertz display to a much brighter display
with thinner bezels, to the tensor g3 that's
got a new primary camera that's the same as a more expensive phone. so i still feel like
that's a fair price for it even though it's not
the bargain of the year like it was before. and then the other massive update that's for both of these
phones, this is awesome, is seven years of os security
and feature drop updates for the 8 and 8 pro. seven years which seems
like something they probably should have already been doing with google's own phone
running google's own chips and google's own software. but yeah, that's, think about that. that's pretty sick. they're leading the way. this is a phone that's gonna get its last software update
in 2030. (snaps fingers) good looks, google. but also, yeah, they announced an update to the pixel watch 2. it is in the same super
sleek pebble design so it's gonna look the
same from the outside. but now inside there's a
new quad core processor that should speed things up significantly and also potentially
extend the battery life by a little bit 'cause
they're promising 24 hours but with always on display
on now instead of off. and there's a bunch of
newly redesigned apps like gmail and calendar. and then it just felt like
they added a bunch of stuff that we also recently saw
added to the apple watch. so there's a new safety
check feature that works almost exactly like the
one apple just announced. they also added a skin temperature sensor that can be helpful for
monitoring patterns. they also now have auto workout
start and stop detection and they also added backup and restore, which actually other
watches have had for a while and they should have had this ages ago but they also now have that. if you look at the back of the watch, there's a bunch of improved sensors that should better monitor
heart rate and health data while you're moving around
a lot more vigorously. and this watch will launch at the same price that last year's did so 349 for the wifi only and 399 starting for the lte watch. and that's a pretty
good spot for our segue to the sponsor of this video, which is the dbrand ghost case. they're gonna make one
for these new pixels, pixel 8 and 8 pro, so you can see that matte
finish or that new color through the case while
keeping it protected and that even though it doesn't
have g2 wireless charging like it was rumored that they might, that didn't stop dbrand from just putting a magsafe compatible
ring on the back anyway. and i also kinda like what they did with the question mark design compared to the classic
apple magsafe layout. but also i like the fact that dbrand says the ghost case will never turn yellow unlike every other clear case. so, if you wanna pick up a ghost which will never turn yellow,
i'll leave link below. and so that's it. let me know what you guys
wanna see in the reviews of each of these devices,
the phones, the watches because my name is marques brownlee and it is techtober officially and there's gonna be a bunch of videos in the next couple weeks. so, stay tuned for that stuff. get subscribed. all right, catch you in the next one. peace. (uptempo music)