- hey guys, this is austin. and today it's time for the best of ces. first we have the royole flexpai. this is the first commercially available foldable smart phone, so you actually can buy
one of these right now, and the entire thing is built around a super thin oled panel, so the actual display itself is a 7.8 inch oled with a 1920 by 1440 resolution. it's not exactly the sharpest or the crispiest thing in the world, but considering that
it is a flexible phone, i can give it just a little bit of props there for, you
know, actually working. even though the display is so thin, it actually feels reasonably sturdy. a big part of that is that the hinge actually does have a
lot of strength to it, and on top of that it does have magnets so when you close up the phone, it does stay flat. now it does actually kind
of fit in the pocket, although just like the surface book, it doesn't actually go completely flat. you do have a little bit of a book shape. what's cool about this is this is actually on sale right now. now at $1,300, probably not a lot of people are on board, but it is really cool to see something like this, which even though it's in a little bit of a rough state right now, it's actually coming out. i feel like this in a couple years is going to be super cool. uh, red hydrogen. - [ken] really? - yeah. - [ken] are you sure? - yeah, look. it's cool. the main issue is is that it doesn't quite have that level of polish, right? the hardware is decent, but especially the software has a lot of bugs, and of course it's an early unit, but this is something
that's shipping right now. it tries to detect sort of if i'm using it from
one side or the other, but in my experience, it just wasn't particularly smooth or worked well. next up is the honor view 20. now this bypasses the standard notch of 2018, or what is known as a hole punch display. the front facing camera is literally right in
the middle of the screen. or well i guess in the
corner of the screen. personally, i don't really mind notches all that much, unless it's something like the pixel 3xl, but i will say that something like the oneplus xt is probably closer to what a lot of
people will appreciate. now this does have a little bit of a cutout, which means stuff like the status bar does
come down a little bit, so in reality it's actually not a huge difference than having a notch, but you still get to
get rid of the bezels, as far as watching video content, it's not quite as much of an obstruction. there's a lot more going for the view 20 than
just the display though. first of all, it has a really cool laser edged finish on the back, which i personally think looks cool, and on top of that, it
has some serious specs. around back, you have
a 48 megapixel camera, and that is augmented by a 24 megapixel camera up front. that my friends is a lot of pixels. so if it is in the same
500 dollar price range as its predecessor,
you're getting a lot here. 4000 milliamp hour battery. you got that kirin 980, and the headphone jack. no, when you talk about ces, especially this year, there are so many displays, so first of all we took a look at some of the stuff that lg has cooking up. so not only do they have a fully rollable oled, so when you're not using it, it can just disappear, and on top of that, they have a killer
looking 88 inch 8k oled. what's also impressive
is the samsung qled 8k. so 8k is actually a little bit of a buzzy thing this year at ces. there's quite a few tvs around, and the samsung one is
seriously impressive. it is a massive 98 inches. even if you look past the size, what you're getting is such a bright and clear picture. the dynamic range, in especially some of
the really bright areas, was super, super impressive. i've gotta say, i've seen a lot of really cool tvs here at ces, but some of these 8k units from both lg as well as samsung are way, way better than i expected. last year, samsung showed off the wall, the first foray into micro led, but this year it's pretty much ready for prime time. all it is is a series of panels that you can put together, and what's really nice about this is it does give you a lot of flexibility. so yes, it's not quite as nice looking as something like that 8k qled, but especially when you have a giant, giant display of them, it looks really impressive. now if you haven't had enough of 8k yet, well how about a camera to shoot it that doesn't cost $50,000? well that's what sharp has. so this is a mirrorless camera that has a micro four thirds sensor. definitely a little bit on the small side, but the idea here is that for less than $5,000, you have a consumer-ish camera that can shoot that full 8k video. now sharp says that it will be able to do this onto an sd card, so if you wanna light your sd card on fire with 8k footage, i guess that'll be nice, but the important thing about this is that it is still slightly a concept. they'll be showing a more final version a little bit later in the year, but this is something that should be on sale this year. my main concern though
is that because it has that micro four thirds sensor, what kind of lenses are
you going to be able to put on it that will be able to resolve full 8k detail? i mean that's something like well north of 30 megapixels. and that's a lot. that's sharp, so, oh i said sharp. oh, sorry. next up, nvidia has the bfgd omen emperium x 65. it stands for big format, okay? it stands for big format gaming display. get your minds out of the gutter. now when you're talking about specs, this thing has it all. 65 inch hdr display. it's a full 4k. it runs at 144 hertz. it has g-sync, and it costs $5,000. so it's a cool idea, and essentially this is a giant gaming tv, which is a little bit
more on the monitor side. it does have an nvidia shield built in, but i mean if you really want the ultimate gaming display,
this is probably it. or you could buy a car. coming back down to earth, we have the samsung space monitor. now there are two sizes, a 27 inch 1440p, as well as a 32 inch 4k, but what's really cool about these is not necessarily the
displays but the stands. so what's cool about it is that it's super flexible. you can drop it all the way down. you can pull it forward. you can push it back. there's a lot of flexibility here, which is nice to see. monitors have been kind of boring lately. the space monitor is actually available on amazon right now for pre order. i'll have a link in the description, but what is not available just yet is the razor raptor. now we did cover this in our razor video, but essentially to catch you up, this is a 27 inch 1440p high refresh rate freesync display, with a really cool stand and some interesting functions, but it's also 700 dollars, so yeah. lg also had a brand new
ultra light monitor, with a massive 49 inch size. now the name of it is the lg 49wl95c 49
inch ultra wide monitor. (exhales) what's cool about this though is it is not only a giant, giant screen, but importantly it's basically a pair of 2560 by 1440p monitors stuck together. so with a 5k by 1440 resolution, this is going to be awesome for gaming. it's not going to be out just quite yet, but you better believe i'm gonna get my hands on one to take a video of. nvidia took ces as a great opportunity to finally announce rtx for laptops, so there are a few options right now. there's rtx 2080, 2070, as well as 2060, as well as the various max-q implementations, and there are a ton of laptops that are updated at the show. if it's time for you to maybe consider upgrading a gaming laptop, this is probably a really good time to do so. there are way too many designs for me to go over in one video, but some of my highlights were definitely the razor blade, which can go all the way up to a 2080 max-q. also side note, the razor blade is getting a full 240
hertz display option soon as well as a 4k oled touch screen. i'm excited about that. but on top of that, asus showed off the ridiculous rog mothership concept. i say concept, but this
is actually something that will be shipping very shortly in the next few months. what you're getting here is essentially the ultimate gaming grade surface pro, so it has a kickstand. it has a keyboard which pops out and is detachable. but inside it has the specs of the most ridiculous, over the top gaming laptop you can imagine. there's a lot more graphics action than that, though. so on top of the rtx 2060, which is finally on sale. $350 is a little bit expensive, but it is roughly equivalent to something like a 1070 ti, and on top of that, amd surprised everyone with the announcement of radeon 7. now this is essentially
an upgraded version of the current vega architecture on a 7-nanometer process, and at $700, it is
meant to go head to head with that rtx 2080, so we'll see exactly how it performs when it comes out early next month, but it is really cool to see all of this momentum. it was a little bit of a, not gonna say boring year last year, for the most part, but it's nice to see all of these different graphics cards and all of these different options showing up in the market. it is a good thing for everyone. third generation ryzen
also made an appearance, so that brings a lot of power into a 7-nanometer process. it should be roughly equivalent to a core i9 with less power, which is exciting, and on top of that, digital storm had one of the smallest gaming computers i have ever seen. i mean i guess there's like laptops and stuff, but. oh hi. - what's up? is that you? - that is definitely me. - this guy's a legend right here. keep doing what you're doing. - excellent, thank you.