- [austin] today we are
doing something incredible, gaming in space! asterisk, it's actually 33,000 feet and it's a zero-g experience, but gaming in space! big thank you to both asus and amd for not only sponsoring this video, but for what truly might be one of the most insane
video ideas we've ever had. welcome aboard! sir, i need to check your boarding pass. - uh, uh. . . - it's really weird just to
be in a plane with nothing. there's a couple of seats in the back, but there's literally nothing. there's so much room for activities, but also we have to get this right, 'cause there's no do-over when you go literal zero-g in an actual plane. no pressure. i'm nervous, very much, very much. - oh, boy. we're getting paid for this. - the plane is gonna do a
series of parabolas, right? so, we're going up and going down, which is gonna alternate us between either feeling zero-gravity, we'll float, or we'll be pushed into the ground basically weighing double
what we normally do. you're probably wondering, "how did we find ourselves in
space, asterisk for video?" which is a good question. thanks for our friends over
at asus and amd, that's how! so this, my friends, is the rog flow x16. so, one of the cool
things about the flow x16 is that it is a very
thin and light package. so you can see, especially
when you grab it by the side, it is super, super thin. inside the flow x16, you've got yourself frost force technology
with a pulsar heatsink. what does that mean? well, in real world terms, it means that not only do you have an
absolutely massive heatsink all the way around the back of the laptop, as well as a couple of fans, which means that it has
a ton of surface area, but importantly, rog is still
one of the only companies who are actually doing liquid metal right, which means that almost all of that heat that is being generated
by your cpu and the gpu is being efficiently distributed using this incredibly thin chassis. okay, so jared, would you consider yourself to
be a flight simulator expert? - um, at least more than you. - [austin] let's go! - [jared] now, remember
you're in a plane, so- - [austin] full throttle! - [jared] down- yes, sure. (laughs) - the plan here is to
simulate the actual flight that we're going to be taking in zero-g. so, we're taking off
from the same airport, which is long beach.
- long beach. - and i'm going to
aggressively climb and then - [jared] oh i think that was-
- [austin] zero-g! - [jared] i think that's a little rough. - zero-g!
- i don't think that's how you're supposed to do that! - full throttle! austin, you are aiming
straight for the ocean! - woo! and listen to these speakers too. - wow, the pc sounds like a jet engine. oh, wait! - with the help of the rog flow x16, i'm prepared and ready
to go to zero-gravity with all the performance,
power battery life, and most importantly, my skills so that if the pilots need a hand, i'm available. oh, we're in the air, right? - yeah. 
- we gotta be in the air, right? - [jared] yeah. we just, oh, yeah. - oh, yeah.
- [jared] oh, yeah. - that's more than zero-g, baby! (cheering) it's time. so, if you wanna look out the window, what you'll see is we're
currently over the ocean. so we are, i don't know, 10, 15,000 feet up. jared is on laptop duty,
so jared is making sure that the rog flow x16
is fully ready to go, and then everyone else is gonna get ready for the actual shoot. these guys from zero-g
are actually professionals and know how to shoot in zero-gravity. we've never done this before, so, you know, slightly
concerned about that. if i get sick, it's game over. so, i've got this little relief band on which is just shocking me, so supposedly that helps. so, without further ado, this is gaming in zero-gravity. - go and lay down
- all right. - in your position that you wanna be in. - all right, i am about to
go into the first parabola, which is going to be a
martian amount of gravity where i'm gonna weigh
i believe about a third what i normally weigh. oh, oh. oh, i feel it. oh. oh, whoa. whoa! whoa, okay. that's a thing. - [ken] oh, geez.
- whoa. - [ken] okay.
- all right, hold on, look. - [ken] yeah? - woo-hoo! wow, okay. - [ken] it's crazy! - (laughs) woo! woo-hoo! all right, all right. that is absolute trippy. (dramatic music) i'm gonna make it to jared. jared, i'm coming to you. - give me a hug, austin! - coming down, coming down. - [ken] oh, god. (laughs) - now, when you see me sitting
on the ground of the plane looking beautiful and incredibly excited, what i'm experiencing is about
twice my normal body weight. for every time you go up
and experience zero-gravity, you then also have an
equal amount of time, if not even longer, of being smashed, compressed into the bottom of a plane. it's, um, a little bit of a trip. whoa. woo-hoo! all right, all right.
- oh, jesus. - this is the zero-g! wow! (laughs) all right. so, this is the first time
i've been in zero-gravity. wow. okay. so, i am currently completely
floating right now. yeah.
- austin, here. - [austin] (laughs) yo,
let's go! catch it! (laughs) woo-hoo! oh, that is so good. i'm a ball. i'm a ball. i'm gaming on it as a ball. i'm using rollout. i'm coming to you. i'm coming to you. i'm coming to somebody. come to me, ken! come to me! (whimsical music) this is the rog flow x16, and i am currently in zero-gravity. this thing is loaded. ryzentm 9 6900hs, 3070 ti, and importantly, it's as light as air! we have a beautiful mini led display, which is up to 1100 nits, looks great while we're in zero-g. we have two minutes until
we go back to zero-gravity. i'm gonna take this
opportunity to get airborne in flight simulator. so, i'm gonna do a parabola in the game. i feel good. all right. okay, whoa, no, that's not good. i'll catch it. okay. so, i can fly. it's fine. all right. so i'm gonna- nope, nope, that's bad too. okay. we're gonna, okay, this is, this is getting a little
out of control here. i'm fine. (laughs) all right. - coming down.
- [austin] coming down. all right, i'm gonna lay flat now. all right. - thank you.
- i didn't make it very far. i think i'm crashing the
plane right now, but uh, i got to fly a little bit. ready and up. no, no, no, no, no, we
don't. no, we don't. okay, so, uh, the laptop has escaped. - oh, god. i got it now. - i'm gonna get back over here. thank you. all right. okay. got the laptop. we're good, we're good. coming down, coming down. all right. okay. all right. i'm going all the way up and then down. hard down. there we go, i'm zero-g in the game! let's go! let's go! ken, you come up with me, okay? let's lock arms. - whoa.
- all right. all right. now stay with me with the laptop. oh no, okay. - [ken] nope, nope, nope.
- [austin] that's not good. all right, that's fine. (laughs) if i can game in zero-gravity
with the rog flow x16, then you could too. check it out at the
link in the description. you also, if you like,
can actually get yourself on your own zero-g flight,
or your two-g flight.