- all right guys, i have $100,000 here. they're gonna have one hour to spend it. i called you all here, you know what we do. 11 grand, 13 grand, 13
grand, something like that. the bank wouldn't let me get more cash, so you get gift cards. so this is a stopwatch. i just hit start. you have one hour to
spend like 13 or 14, 15, i don't know how much
thousand dollars each. it's 100 grand, go. - now?
- yeah. bye. - if you don't spend it
before the hour's up, i get it back. - you know, i don't run for things. - yeah. - garrett has to go poop. - what are you guys doing? - this guy has to poop, but i told him no. - all right, chris, we're in the taxi. how are you? - we're trying to figure
out where this best buy is. - chris, you brought a friend. - it's my wife, katie. - also, before i forget, our editor couldn't come
to new york with us. so i hid some money in north
carolina for him to spend. so i'm gonna facetime him. he needs to spend his
part of the 100 grand in north carolina, while the squad here spends part of their 100 grand in new york. - hello. - i'm gonna need you to
go down into the warehouse and look in the grave digger. - in the grave digger. oh, that?
- yep. all right, cool. you have one hour to
spend it, go have fun. don't live, record it all. - so i was just told to vlog everything after getting an absurd amount of cash. i don't even know what to spend it on. - all right, we're sitting in the lyft and he said he's gonna book it for us. - so we got in our uber
before chandler and garrett, so we're not losing any time on our hour. how much do you think you'll make today? - 400. - all right, what if i say i double it, will you say our driver for the whole day? - yeah, no problem. - personal driver for the day. - all right, chandler,
what are we here for? - i'm here to buy a phone. i'm trying to find someone to works here. - does he work here? - i need to purchase two iphones. - dude, we're running really low on time, but i was able to get some
airpods and a new iphone. - we weren't allowed to film in the store, so. - chandler, go, go, go! - oh, oh, wait minute, look at this. - dude, look at these. - do you have this these in a size 12? all right guys, so my mom's
never had a handbag over $50. think she'd like to walk the
streets around with this? - first up is always just best buy. we're gonna get some good stuff. - you busy, man? - yeah, what are you guys looking for? - a macdaddy. - a macdaddy - ibuypower with a 28 unit. i need a predator monitor and then two hp omens. - oh, actually where we
had the hp omens, but'0. - we're gonna do an oms order. jake's wasting no time. - wasting no time going
through this money. - thank you. - and i'm only walking out with one item. rip grand total 4949.89. now i'm getting a phone
'cause as you remember, my phone got blown on
up in a recent video. so, gonna spend some more money. i need to get iphone x.
- the iphone x. - yeah.
- which one? - i wanna get this one. - that one?
- yeah another 1,000. we just spent 6,300 already. - and i completely forgot that new york and traffic is like cheese and pizza. it's a metaphor. - so i was told i only have an hour and i know my parents need
some stuff for their house. the first place i'm going
is lowe's, real quick. gotta go fast. don't run me over please. i got stuff to do, stuff to buy. so i'm here in the dishwasher section. my mom really needs a dishwasher. it broke, really needs a new one. i think this is the one
that we're gonna get her. my mom also needs a vacuum really bad. she needs a roomba, so that way it can vacuum
the house while she's gone. the last thing that we need is windows. so my parents' windows are super crappy. they're like super thin. from the counting here, they do not have enough here
so i have to order them online. so i'll be able to pay for these, but i won't be able to get them today. they're gonna have to come in the mail and be delivered to my parents. grand total came out to $4,269.34. we don't have very much time, so let's go. - it's been 22 minutes and we haven't even arrived
at the first location. - everyone else is probably
panicking right now. i'll probably give them a
little bit of extra time. i'm gonna wait a little while to tell them just so, you know, they'll keep panicking. all right, we made it to the first store. it's been 40, almost 44 minutes. - ah, we're good. that's not real time, right? - you guys get an extra hour. - we're gonna be getting
my sister a macbook air. - all right, so you're gonna get mac. - and a gaming computer for my cousin. - gaming computer. - we're gonna get two fridges. - two fridges. - we're about to order the
fridge for both my parents and katie's parents. - aw, i'll hug you for your parents. - aw, thank you. do you guys have this
$199 monitor in stock? - yeah, definitely. i can get it for you. - thanks man. - so normally i don't participate in my challenges like this, but i was feeling a little lonely and- - we'd rather you'd be
able to have some fun too, even though you make me look
super short in this shot. - garrett, where are we going? - we're going to the supreme, supreme, supreme, preme, preme. - i got a backpack so i can
put that the camera in there. - yo, you filming mrbeast video? - where are we going? - balenciaga. - all right, me and garrett just got some shoes from balenciaga. - we gonna look hype like a beast. - where are we going now? - gucci. - no. - is that good? it's a good hot dog. - your dad was telling us you would like something for christmas. - [uber driver's son] yeah, i
said i wanted a playstation 4. - what game? - [uber driver's son] you
know the new spider-man game? - yeah.
- [uber driver's son] yeah. - okay, perfect. we'll get that for you. - [uber driver's son] what? - what? you just have to subscribe
to pewdiepie on youtube. - [uber driver's son] oh, i'm
already subscribed to him. - perfect. then i need you to subscribe to mrbeast. - [uber driver's son] me too. i already subscribed to him. - perfect. you're all set then. he's all set. all right, so just bought
a playstation for his son. - that's right. i'm so grateful. thank you so much. please subscribe to their channel and they are the best. - i didn't tell 'em to say that. - that's how you do it. - ah! do you guys see this? this is how much i have
left after going to lowe's. how do you even spend this? how? so we made it to best buy. i'm leaving on a trip in a few days and i figured why not
get a nintendo switch and be able to play it on the plane? it would be a lot of fun. brand new tv we're gonna get my parents. grand total of $2,300. it's absolutely beautiful. it's the 1,500 one that i'm getting them, which is still that one. but yeah, it's 1500, not 2300. so i guess we have a
little more spending room. all right, so our grand total is 1711.99. 65 inch 4k awesome tv, acquired. - all right, so taking
my money that jim got, i get my wife a new van,
but it's not just any van, even though jake says it is. - it's still a van. - it is still a minivan, but it's totally decked out. hope she likes it. - can i get an oculus? - cool. . these are all like
inspiron gaming computers. - how much are they? - they're like $1,500. - can i have three of them? - sure. - so i just got three computers. do you approve? - let me see. i approve.
- thank you. you want a networking cable? - yeah. 25- - we're about to get a bunch of computers. might as well get this. - yeah, we always need these. - chris, i'm running outta hands. what do i do? - we gotta go to the cart and dump it all. - this is fun. why don't we spend money
like this all the time? i got it. i'm a big boy. - okay, all right. - leave me alone.
- all right. - i'm fine.
- you got it. - i'm good. - having fun. - i am, lots of fun. - all right, so we're here at louie. i wanted to surprise my wife with a louie bag from new york city like she's always wanted, so here she is. she's looking. - and then i'm gonna let
her pick something out and then i gotta get my mom something. we're getting mom this awesome purse. she said it's a great
price point of $1,000. we're fine, though. it's fine. it's fine. - anything from mom, right? - anything for mom. anything for mother. - my phone died, so it looks like you guys
have more time because i can't time you if i don't have a phone. - it's only been two minutes
since we started, we're fine. - actually it's been like four hours. - nah, four minutes. - all right, well, you
guys get another hour. all right, i told everyone
they have another hour. - all right. - so we just got word
that jimmy's phone's dead, so he can't actually keep up with how long we've been shopping, so that just gives us- - more time. - more time. thank you, jimmy for never
charging your phone at night. - yeah. hey, jake. - hey. - what should you doing? - getting my dad a watch. because he broke the one
i got from him last year. so doing it again. we're looking at this one. i'm thinking about this
one for me, maybe. maybe. so i'm gonna do those two. perfect. i really gotta
say thanks to jimmy though. helping me get all these amazing christmas presents for everybody. so our christmas this
year is gonna be lit. all right, so we are back with
our best friend, uber driver. i think we told you
something earlier about giving you some money for
being ours for the day. i think we got 800 here. 'cause you said you're
gonna make 400 day regular so we said we'd pay you double. - wow.
- there it is. - thank you so much. - there you go, man. - you guys are the best in the world, man. - since the other guys are running around going through subways, taking taxis, we got our own personal driver. - dj j5. - dj j5, baby. all right, so we're in macy's. we're gonna hit the gucci store. - all right, so we were
just in the gucci store and they had two different wallets. and i flipped a coin and
i landed on this one, so i got this one. and now we're about to head- - i got my girl a gucci bag, so. guys, i wonder who this could be. you know, chris is with jimmy, right? all right. hello. - hey, so what have you bought so far? - i got two designer bags, a wallet, and some shoes. i got iphones. - gotcha. just wanted to make
sure you're doing well. - how much time do we have five minutes? - five minutes. - you're breaking up. we can't hear you.
- we can't hear you. five.
- five hours? - five hours.
- okay, bye. - all right. - we have five hours. - i think i've spent about $7,000. so the next place i want to go see if i can't get any rims
and tires for my vehicle. so we're gonna go ahead and see if we can't find a rim place and get some new tires. i'm excited. all right, guys, so we are at the rim shop. so the grand total for
these tires were $1,900, pretty much on the dot. - can i have like a bunch of monitors? i need like a lot, like nine. - predator. - isn't that what we kind of already have? no.
- yeah. why not have two? - cool. how much are they about? - 280. - okay, i need like eight of them. - we only have two. - you only have two. - yeah.
- okay, i need eight of the next thing down. - monitors. - chris, you're getting a macbook. - so my sisters had the same
macbook for eight years. - oh, you're getting it for your sister? - yes. that is a lot of money that. i'm shocked. all right, so my first purchase is $600. - chris, so 6,000 plus 600. i'm up to 6,600. - you're doing good, man. - i'm running out. - you're pretty good at spending money. thank you guys. you guys did great, really appreciate it. - all right, chris have
fun and bye-bye baby. - thanks. guys seriously, this is not for me. this is for my sister. i am not having a child. me and jimmy are not- - whatever. chris, i think this
would be good for your, i mean, your sister's baby. - it's my sisters.
- but she's having a boy. - this is the crib. - warehouse.
- yeah. - all right, so chris,
how much did you spend? - we spent $1,101. - you must really like your sister. my spending's still the same. you just spent another grand. so how much do you have left? - we have six grand left and we're gonna take that six grand. here's that six grand, we're gonna put it in here and we're gonna put it towards some land. - oh yeah. - so my uncle has about two acres of land. we're gonna buy it from him. me and katie are gonna put a house on it. - basically, he's using part of his money as a down payment on a house. oh, look at you being all responsible. - i know. that's what i did. last time, i got groceries. - yeah.
- that was boring. - yep, as everyone else
bought like devices. - all right guys, i forgot to vlog inside, but i got a macbook from best buy. and also this gucci watch i'm wearing now. - chandler, but you didn't get a mac. you got a mac for your girlfriend. - yes, i did get it for my girlfriend. girlfriend. - chris, no way, man. wait, how? - dude, i used some of
the money you gave me and i rented a lambo for- - really? when did you do that, ah, whatever. dude, that's crazy. how do you like it? - dude, i feel flex. - yeah. - geez, dude. - dude, you can rent these things for like $1,000 for a day. - after one hour, give or take 10 hours, this is what they bought. - i got a macbook air, a gaming computer, two fridges, a crib, a stroller, two visa gift cards, a gucci watch, and i also got $6,000 to put as a down payment
on the land i'm buying. - got a gaming computer, predator monitor, two dell monitors, mouse, keyboard, two pairs of gucci dapper dan shoes, two diesel watches, a iphone x max, sony headphones, gucci
wallet, louis purse, louis wallet, ps4 with
spiderman for our uber driver, and then we gave our uber driver $800 for being ours for the day. - i bought three pairs of the y3 joggers. they feel amazing. i bought a pewdiepie chair
for my brother online to fight against t-series. bought balenciaga. i also bought a gucci
backpack, gucci sweatshirt, some more balenciagas, and i also put five grand down on my car. - i got two iphone xss. i got a macbook pro. i got gucci sweatshirt, a gucci wallet. i got a gucci watch. i got balenciaga. i got louis vuitton sunglasses. and i'm putting $3,000 on my car. - all right, so, i bought a louie purse for my wife. and then i bought her a minivan. - tricked out. - tricked out. - it's still a minivan. - i bought three computers
and like nine monitors. and then i bought all
the accessories for it. and an impulse buy, i bought a gucci backpack that i'll probably regret
cause i'm not a high piece. [music] mister beast 6000 [music] [music] mister beast 6000 [music] - from the jake paulers
to the low gangsters, click the link in the subscription. bailey, put that at the
very end of the video.