- big thanks to simplisafe
for sponsoring this video. what the hell are you doing? - [matt] chair? (box slides and thumps) - this is a giant camp chair. - we want to knock you while you're down and remind you that you
are a very tiny person. - excuse me, where's that coming from? - [kenny] get off your stool! - fine, okay! i get it. - [kenny] nope, nope, nope. more. there's another step. yeah, there you go. - fine, okay.
(box thumps) i might only be 4'3, but at least i got short king energy. (bell dings) - [matt] there's so many wrong ways that. (laughing) like, i can't believe. (glass shatters) - a chair but bigger.
- all right. time to go camping, gang! so here's the thing. i'm a regular-sized dude, this is just a. (austin stuttering) it's a big chair.
- nope. - that's it. - [matt] the chair is
what's regular-sized. (all cackling) - i feel like we could
have helped you but. (shells tapping) - [ken] stuart little out here grabbing his chair.
(matt and kenny laughing) - oh, here it comes. it's expanding. - oh, my god.
- it's expanding! - [kenny] oh my god, it's getting big. (kenny laughing) (everyone laughing) - mom! i want a juice box! - [matt] two kids after soccer practice. - but look! we got enough-!
- uncy matt! uncy matt!
(austin laughs) (thumb squelching) - (stutters) this is a. one of the-
- carry! carry! carry!
- ahh! ahh! carry!
(austin laughing) - [matt] this is one of those times where i'm embarrassed to know both of you. this.
- "one of those times"?! - [matt] this right here. - if you really want
to up your chair game, you can check out the big ass chair at the link in the description. how much is it? i don't know. where'd you find it? no clue! - [joanna] costco. - at costco, apparently.
- at 140. - it's $140? - [matt] (chuckles) yeah. (groovy disco music)
- all right, mystery tech. (hand slaps)
let's go! (groovy disco music)
(wood thumping) it's an xbox. wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. i already did this one. this is the xscreen. essentially, it's a
little laptop-style screen that clips directly onto a series s, and it essentially gives you a really
pretty solid little display. - [matt] who cares? we're
not talking about that. - yeah, i knew that. why'd you give it to me then? - 'cause i didn't feel
like gettin' a monitor. (mat taps) - where'd you get this?
it's actually kinda neat. is this available on lttstore.com yet? - [matt] not yet. oh, right.
- but what do you notice about the peripherals that i've given you? - gave me a mouse and keyboard. - [kenny] well, yeah.
(box thumps) - wait! the keymander? but mouse and keyboard works on the xbox. - [kenny] but this one works better. - essentially, what this does is it intercepts your signal from your wired xbox, your playstation or whatever controller. it fuses it with the input
from a mouse and keyboard and then feeds it into the game, therefore, allowing
you to get the accuracy and the precision of a mouse and keyboard while owning the noobs
with your controller. now, some might say that this is cheating.
(tense orchestral music note) i would also say that
this is kind of cheating, especially because a
lot of games these days do actually support mouse
and keyboard on console and would just put you
in a different lobby with other mouse and keyboard users. but if you've gotta be a [quack] about it and crush little timmy
on his ipad in fortnite, it's probably your move. so as far as the xbox is concerned, i'm just using a game pad. i've now cranked it to maximum and it actually doesn't feel terrible so i'm just gonna try to rock with it. here's the thing. if you wanted to spend a
lot of time tweaking it and assuming that their
site actually works, this might be okay. the problem is, is that this
is what, a hundred bucks? - uh, i got it for the
low, low price of $80. but it's normally a hundred. - so, for a usb hub and
a little bit of software, it technically functions. and if you're really
into a particular game and you wanna spend the time to tweak it, sure, i guess. but like, this is not it. (air whooshes) a huge thanks to simplisafe
for sponsoring this video. summer is in full swing, and i love going outside touching grass, and spending time with family. that means leaving my
house, and more importantly all my mystery tech behind! (austin gasps) simplisafe's 24/7 live guard protection helps stop crime in real time. their smart alarm indoor camera is the only indoor camera that can instantly
trigger a built-in siren, alert nearby authorities, and have live agents that
speak directly to intruders, stopping them in their tracks from touching my mystery tech. you have full control
over the simplisafe system through their app including accessing camera feeds, arming and disarming the system and much more. you get all of this
for less than $1 a day. plus, simplisafe has
no long-term contracts so you can start and stop anytime with no hidden fees. the best part is you don't have to make a service appointment and wait around for half a day for someone to install the system. have it delivered directly to you door because setup is easy. save 20% on your
simplisafe security system when you sign up for a fast protect plan and get your first month for free. just visit simplisafe.com/austinevans
to customize yours. and remember, there's no safe like simplisafe. (air whooshes) did you just move monkey? (table thuds) why would you do that to monkey?! - [joanna] i think it's a gorilla. - oh! it's the banana phone, i get it. that was a good. i thought you were just
being mean to monkey. banana phone wireless headphone. talk more, smile more, save gorillas. 1% for the planet. oh, wow, it's a. it's a banana. here's the problem, though. they didn't do the right
attention to detail. while the molding is fine, what kind of banana is all-the-way yellow? this is clearly supposed to be brown. have you never seen a banana before? this better not be expensive. it's a basic piece of plastic with a microphone, bluetooth, and speaker. 20 bucks.
- 40 bucks. (crickets chirping) - what? that's too much money. i want my brown stem if you're gonna charge me $40. $20? i'll pay for a yellow stem. but, come on!
(playful music) (phone ringing) - [kenny] hello? - hello. how's it going? - [kenny] it is going well. um, you sound pretty okay, actually. - i'll say you sound quite terrific. i'm gonna turn you down though because this is very loud. (buttons clicking) - oh, i hung up. - [matt] you just hung up on him. - i did. so, there's three buttons here. the middle one's 'hang up', the bottom one's 'volume down'. unless you have a banana
aficionado in your life, then i would say skip the banana phone. it does work as advertised. i just think it's a little too expensive. i wish the stalk was brown. can somebody get me a brown sharpie? - [matt] it's. (chortles) it's like you've never
held a marker before. - there you go! the banana phone now properly
customized by yours truly. hey, that's my helmet! that's not. (laughs) that's my helmet. yeah, i'm gonna take it back. (austin groans) all right. (nose sniffing) why do you have my helmet? this is my track helmet. oh, are you pretending
to be the stig right now? oh, my god. all right, fine. what is outside? okay, all right. i'm coming, i'm coming. there better be a go-kart! - go, go. go. go.
- we got you something for cyber monday. - [austin] what? what's cyber?
(door thumps) - [kenny] well, now that he's gone. - we got him a cyberbike! how long do i have to keep holding this? - [joanna] hold for another 30 seconds and you'll be good.
(hand slaps) - all right, austin. (anticipatory drum music)
- what is? oh, my god. (kenny laughing) - so, this is the wau cyber bike. so, the company was
actually awesome enough to bring it out to us for you to try out.
- okay. - which is why you have a helmet. - [austin] i do have a helmet. so i see that there's a screen on it? - [kenny] yep. there's a bunch of sensors, cameras, obviously lights and indicators. it's a whole deal. - [austin] i could ask a lot of questions. i'm gonna do none of that. i'm going to try it. - [matt] what's wrong? - (laughing) he's having a hard time. - no, no, no! i know how to ride a bike! i'm just going slow. i'm not afraid or anything. so, this is just me using it normally, like an actual bike. so i'm not using any
of the assist features. so now it is assisting me. okay. i'm gonna slow down
'cause i'm afraid of this. so there's also a
- use the throttle, buddy! - i don't wanna go fast! i'm working myself up to it. oh, there we go. okay. okay, so, now that i'm moving, if i start turning the throttle, whoo hoo hoo! whoo! okay, that's 20 kilometers. that's pretty fast. so it has radar, which is rear-facing. and on top of that, it's got a pair of 1-kwh batteries, which will give you an
enormous amount of range. so i'm pulling about a thousand watts with the pedal assist right now. yeah, i'm going too fast now. almost 50 kilometers an hour. okay, i'm slowing down. (laughs) that is legit, man! i'm afraid to go downhill.
this thing is fast! so that. (groans) that thing is wild. the pedal assist feels really natural. like, to me, i actually start, i like that as sort of the way to adjust my throttle more than just using the e-throttle. obviously you could just use
it purely electric if you want, but to me, i like the idea that i can actually kind of, not only put some of my own energy in, but also to kind of help
to modulate that speed. i'm certainly not a professional reviewer when it comes to these things, but like, that's awesome. like, that is just. it's so cool. this thing feels way more badass than an e-bike i had
ever thought of before. - okay. yeah.
- ready? you gotta have a lot of confidence! - okay.
- go, go, go. go, go, go.
- start pedaling. - go, go.
- start pedaling! - i can't!
- get your feet on the pedals! go, go, go, go, go. now! yeah, yeah. go, go, go! - i can't park my foot! - today, we've got
something truly special. - it is! okay, so this is where you throw the item. one more time. just, you know? we'll just run that back. so edit team, if you
could cut all that out. now we've got! (box whams)
jesus christ! (everyone laughing) our new friend over here
understood the assignment. (everyone laughs)
you went. - "who threw that item?". it was thrown so hard and strong. - if you've ever watched
the plainrock channel, you will understand exactly
what's going on here with, oh, the nothing phone 2! okay, hope they didn't break this. 'cause i think, did they send this over?
- yes. (austin laughs)
- i sent it over via air mail. (kenny laughing loudly and hands clapping) - i'm not gonna lie, this is a lot bigger than i thought. for some reason in my head, i thought the nothing phone
was a little bit small. this is a chungus. - [ken] i mean, to be fair,
you use an iphone 13 mini and everything is kind of
big compared to that phone. - look. correct size of a phone. not correct size of phone. but you know what the real
correct size of a phone is? - oh my god, here we go again.
- jesus christ, no. - the samsung galaxy z flip! the right size of every phone. (box thumps)
(group sitting down laughs) what was that? - well, about $1500. - [ken] i missed the table. (television beeping) - i caught that one.
- eyy! (hands clapping)
(austin gasps) - [matt] he caught one for the first time! - the razr!
- you're welcome. - okay. so, is this the double phone bonanza? 'cause i'm not gonna lie, i've been waiting for
the razr for a while. okay. so, while i will be taking
a look at the nothing phone, i'll also be taking a
look at the razr plus. - whoa!
- look at that! it's an entire screen! - it actually looks
- on the outside - kinda sick.
- of a phone! yo! it's so cool! also, it's so blue! (meter beeping)
that's like, my third favorite color! look at this! (group laughing)
look at this. look, it's a screen! so i have both phones
here initially set up. let's start out by talking
about the nothing phone. now, the first thing
that's really noticeable is the interface. so, nothing os does a lot of stuff to make it a very monochromatic look where you've got, like the icon pack, and a lot of the stuff here, it's meant to be very clean, very sort of um, aesthetic. but the main thing i wanna try is the glyph. so you can see here that we have, not only dual cameras
on the back and a flash, but all of this theoretically lights up based on what you're doing. is this it?
- uh, yeah. - oh. whoa.
- oh, i did it. i did it. - [matt] oh, geez. - wait, can we go ahead and turn on a dramatic lighting preset? whoo! (hooting) now, i essentially, i
have myself a ring light. so, if i spin around here a little bit, you can see that this
is actually doing a lot to fill in my face. i dunno how it actually looks on camera, but mind you, it's very dark in here. so, this is actually legitimately neat. and i think this is one of the things that really makes this sort of special. because no other phone does lighting to this degree. as of recording this video, this has actually not
been fully announced yet, so i do not know the price. although, if you'd like
to learn more about it, you can go and check out the denki video all about the nothing phone 2. ken, tell me if it's good or not. in two to three weeks, please. (playful jingle music)
now, let us move on to the razr. on the inside, it looks very similar to like a z flip or something. it's, i will say the
hinge doesn't feel as nice as the z flip. it doesn't quite stay
in quite as many spots. also, it's a little wiggly. like, i just see like the mechanism kinda like wiggling there. the real star of the show here, though, is this external display. this is basically a full
version of android i have on the outside of my phone. so here's some of the apps
that work straight up. so let's open like the
camera, for example. so you can see that pretty much the entire front of this phone is all display, right? i mean, that is incredibly cool. so if i'm doing something
like vlogging, for example, i've got a very large display! and if you're one of those people who tend to stare at the
reflection of yourself on the screen instead of
the actual camera lens, the camera lens is
basically on the screen! so, i'm looking at myself and it looks like i'm kind
of looking at the phone. - [kenny] is it giving
you a 16 by 9 preview? - it is. look at that.
- oh, that's really cool actu. oh, shoot. - yeah.
- yo, actually though. - see?
- that's kind of neat! - everyone finally understands! this is really cool! so, let me go ahead and download, um... how about youtube? should we try youtube? youtube is technically working, although, i will say it
is a little small, but - [matt] it's me. - [austin] this is really cool! - [king] you'll see the whole thing if you actually open up the phone. - yeah, so if i open it up, it should transition. and it does. yeah. - oh, nice.
- so i'm really into youtube. all i'm gonna say is this. i'm gonna spend some
more time with the razr. follow me on tiktok if you'd like to know more. but i think this is dope. i'm massively excited. and as much as i love the z flip and who knows, maybe that
z flip5 will bring me back. but i am 100% switching to this razr. starting now. (device smacks)
hey! be gentle to the game boy! - [matt] that's one from dkoldies. - ah, okay. who cares? can i guess that there's maybe a game that goes with this, potentially? got it. okay. uh, oh my. is this? is this what i think it is? the most holy of holiday
is the one and only. - [ken] the lexus december to remember. - no. no, no, no. (laughs) it's not that one. this is an actual game boy color game! or game boy, i guess og game boy game to celebrate everyone's least
favorite mcdonald's mascot. - [matt] whoa! - grimace.
- okay. - actually, you know
what? no, maybe a second. - hamburglar, grimace, everyone else. ronald mcdonald. - you know what, though? (tense music)
i have a lot of fond memories of sitting on ronald mcdonald's
lap outside mcdonald's. - yikes!
- that wasn't ronald mcdonald. that was the dude that was hanging outside the restaurant. (button plays "nut") - [joanna] wait a second! (everyone laughing) - [austin] get it, get it! - you never let me have any fun! - for context, joanna's been
holding onto the nut button. (stutters) for good reasons. but matt found it. (laughing) - [austin] matt lost his nut
privileges a long time ago. this is an actual real
mcdonald's-made game, right? you just put it on a cart? or did you actually get like this? - so mcdonald's actually
released the game. - [austin] yep. - so kinsey and i conspired and we made a real cartridge. - so this is the only actual real copy of "grimace's birthday" in the world, unless other people did it. but probably not, 'cause who would wanna
do something like that? - [matt] who else would
possibly have this idea? - no one.
- to put a physical game. - tiktok.
- zero people. all right. 'start game', 'score attack', 'free skate', 'credits'. - i wanted to give you a. you know, the nice purple
grimace-colored game boy, but we can't really see it. so, let's get you a different
game boy. (chuckling) - [austin] oh! sick tricks. oh wait, i gotta get the shake. (buttons clicking) there we go. oh, look at that! i am so good at this. - [king] a game journalist
can play better than you! what the? - ooh.
- ooh. - get outta the studio right now. you're no longer welcome here. do you wanna try? - [king] yeah! gimme that! let me show how real.
- show me, show me. show me how it's how it's done. - [matt] just instantly better. - [austin] he's made it
three seconds of the game! - [matt] that's four more than you did. - oh, you're gettin' high.
- energy! let's go. - [austin] oh, we didn't pay. - kernel panic. please send clear pic of this screen now. (everyone laughing loudly) i'm so good, i broke the game! - you know what? - i smashed the game. - no, no! uh, we're gonna send a clear pic of the screen to the devs and let them know that
there's a kernel panic. much like there's a panic at mcdonald's hq when everyone opened up
tiktok one day and go. oh, what the? (tense music) what is that? is grimmy coming? - [in deep voice] is grimmy coming? (tense music) (muffled screaming)
(king laughing) you know what? (austin groans) this would've been funnier a month ago. - [matt] maybe. but probably not. (everyone laughs) - [in deep voice] is grimmy coming?