google is the world's dominant search engine. 
with over 90% market share as of 2020,   the company handles over 5.4 billion searches 
a day. they are the tech company gold standard. there are a few countries, however, where 
google isn't the search leader. china is one.   south korea is another. there, naver 
corporation's eponymous search engine   holds over 70% market share. one of 
korea's largest internet companies,   it owns a collection of amazing online 
properties. furthermore, it has been   able to keep those properties profitable and 
competitive against google even to this day. any market where google has not been 
able to take hold in is worth studying.   so in this video, we are going to 
study how naver beat google in search. naver corporation was founded in 1999 
by a number of ex-samsung employees.   they launched their web portal site that same 
year. a web portal is a site that brings together   information from various sources to be the single 
access point to everything you need on the web.   a few examples of american portals 
include yahoo and america online. naver then quickly launched a search engine in 
2000 - the first web portal in korea to do so.   they were quickly joined in competition by others: 
daum, yahoo! and lycos were soon in the market   too. google korea would also launch that same 
year, adding another player to the industry. this competition was fierce and though naver was 
doing alright, it found itself in third place.   it needed additional capital to 
fight and take share. their ads   business was not doing well enough 
yet and they were not profitable. so in 2001, naver merged with a gaming company 
called hangame. hangame made a series of popular   card games on the web. these games were 
very popular but also very profitable.   both companies felt that they could 
cross-promote each other's user bases and grow. the combined company was called nhn, standing 
for "next human network" and soon went public   on the kosdaq stock exchange. while hangame and 
naver were technically part of the same company,   the two companies worked somewhat 
independently. it was never quite a perfect fit.   over ten years later in 2013, 
the two would split again. hangame's cash flow however did help 
fund naver's next few product launches.   these new products would be crucial 
in helping the company to secure   its search market share and box 
google korea out of the market. the first and most critical naver launch was its 
2002 "knowledge search" service, or knowledge in.   this was yahoo answers three years 
before yahoo answers ever existed.   it allows users to post questions 
and vote up answers from other users.   this was one of the first websites 
anywhere to feature user-generated content. this matters because in those years, korea 
did not have much in terms of digital content.   as late as october 1999, there were 
only 159,525 korean registered domains.   the number of sites with useful information was 
far smaller - estimated to be around 50,000. furthermore, a large percentage of those korean 
websites prevented google from crawling their   content. this is ostensibly to prevent google from 
exposing "private" information. as late as 2012,   nearly half of the country's government websites 
still blocked google from indexing their pages. google probably had superior technology when 
it came to crawling and archiving web pages.   but the small size of the korean internet back 
then as well as nuances in the korean language   invalidated that technical advantage. so web portals like naver and daum captured the 
market by generating their own proprietary library   of korean-language content. they can essentially 
curate the search experience for their customers. knowledge in helped naver overtake yahoo 
in 2003 and daum a year later. naver became   korea's most popular website in 2005 and 
that has not really changed since then. in the years that came after, naver 
added to its library with book search,   local and blogger information search, maps, and 
original content with its manga service webtoon.   the more content naver added to its walled garden,   the more useful its searches were 
in comparison to the competition. these walled gardens became immensely profitable 
for naver, daum and other portals. you see,   naver monetizes with search and 
display ads on its content properties.   so the longer a user stayed within the naver 
garden, the more money they made from them.   the profit from these ads helped naver launch more 
properties, extending its competitive advantages. thus, naver users visit the site far 
more than google and stay for far longer.   they trust naver web properties more 
than that of some random third party.   owning that content (and blocking it from 
being indexed by google) allowed naver to   maintain its strong position over the years 
despite challenges from western tech companies. naver quickly sought to globalize and expand 
its presence outside of its home market.   they launched a japanese 
naver search engine in 2000,   but that failed to gain traction against 
yahoo japan, another web portal, and google. eventually, the company succeeded overseas.   but not with search. instead, 
it was messaging with line. line was naver's second attempt at a messenger 
service after the failure of naver talk in   its home market. independently developed by 
subsidiary naver japan after the 2011 earthquake,   it has become the dominant messenger 
in japan, taiwan, and thailand. the company is well known for pioneering the 
monetization method of selling digital goods   like stickers. today line has its own news 
function, shop, payment function and more.   kind of like naver itself. a fuller 
profile of line is for another day,   but its emergence proved that 
naver was not a one hit wonder. the interesting thing is to compare 
naver's situation with that of   korea's domestic social networking 
giant, cyworld. founded in 1999,   the company signed up over 50% of all 
internet-connected koreans by 2003. on cyworld, users can write blogs, join clubs, 
and share pictures. you can also have this   cute little room in which you can decorate 
and fill with accessories. accessories you   pay for, naturally. it is kind of like animal 
crossing, i guess? i haven't played that game. why haven't you heard of cyworld? well, that 
is because the company never globalized.   they were owned by sk telecom, one of 
korea's dominant telecom companies,   and that significantly interfered 
with their expansion plans. frankly, skt had no idea what to do with 
this special thing they had. they refused   to allow cyworld to expand into messaging, 
because it would cannibalize their $2 billion   texting business. and they did not want to fund 
a global expansion into japan like naver did.   they just left it as is, 
just like fox and myspace. eventually, facebook broke 
cyworld down. here's how.   first. people outside of korea didn't use 
cyworld. koreans had to sign up to facebook   to connect with their overseas friends. second, 
cyworld missed the mobile phone app transition   (again, the sk telecom connection). 
facebook, bless their hearts, did not. cyworld's still around. but 
then again, so is myspace. naver avoided cyworld's fate for two 
reasons. it maintained the strength of its   most valuable content - its proprietary 
knowledge base and other properties.   and at the same time, the company had the 
freedom to experiment, expand and globalize. today, naver remains one of korea's most 
valuable and profitable internet companies.   rankings vary depending on the source but most 
traffic research sites find that naver.com is   still the country's most popular web property with 
29 million monthly unique visitors as of 2020. for what it is worth, google is still doing 
fine in korea. first, there's the 90% global   market share, the $180 billion in revenue, $40 
billion in profit and what not. and second,   youtube and google are the third and 
fourth most visited sites in the country. youtube in particular is showing 
a lot of traction in the space,   pressuring naver's domestic ad businesses. 
lower cellular data costs and a huge network   of user created content from around the 
world has made the service very popular. youtube now has leading share in the video 
advertising space and users spend more time   in the youtube app than they do in naver 
or kakaotalk (the dominant chat app). naver is fighting another big 
battle in the e-commerce space.   a new company called coupang 
has exploded onto the scene,   disrupting the first generation of korean 
web giants. fueled with $2 billion from the   softbank vision fund, the company recently went 
public in the us and is valued at $60 billion. coupang has followed the amazon playbook to a tee.   they built out a fulfillment service that 
allows them to deliver products overnight.   they have their own version of amazon 
prime with a future video service. naver is fighting back with its proprietary 
properties, expanding its selection of marketplace   sellers, and positioning its smartshop site as 
the go-to place to buy anything and everything.   they have struck deals with korea's leading retail   giants to build economies of scale 
and expand their offline presence. regardless, coupang has a lot of momentum 
behind it and it goes to show just how   fierce the korean internet industry can be. 
no moat is invincible. it must be maintained. in recent years, google has been accused of 
taking a page out of the naver playbook and   promoting its own content and sites in its search 
results. these include its google shopping ads,   youtube search results, google maps listings, 
or whatever. "we want to get you out of google   and to the right place as fast as possible," 
larry page had said in 2004. not so much today. whether this is due to a desire to 
show higher quality search results,   entrap its users within its own walled garden, or 
otherwise, the trend is interesting to look at. and one last thing. learning about how powerful 
naver's proprietary knowledge base has been for it   has got me thinking about how impactful 
(and valuable) wikipedia is to the   western internet. the english and korean 
internets were way different in the 90s,   but the need was the same: reliable 
answers to the searchers' questions. naver built their own database of answers and 
it allowed them to encircle their wall around   the korean web. google never had the chance 
to own that space because wikipedia eventually   took it for themselves. their pages are often 
seen to be the most authoritative on a subject.   i know google's own principles at the time 
probably would have precluded them from trying,   but it is an interesting 
thought experiment nevertheless.