my mum has always thought that she's not 
mathematical; actually always been told by   her school, by various different people that she's 
not mathematical but there are always a few clues   that i saw throughout my life, i thought, hang on 
i actually think you might be good at maths. so   first of all she's pretty good at textiles - my mum 
once crocheted me this wonderful festive poncho,   the boundary of which is a digon; and it doesn't 
lie flat so you're crocheting in hyperbolic space.   and also on all of her letters, any like 
birthday cards, everything i get, she always draws   this little symbol. 
- everything, it's my seal.
- so this little symbol, you'll recognize this as the   3_1 knot - it's got three crossings, it is a 
closed knot, and it is the smallest non-trivial   prime knot. to seal in mum's mathematical 
abilities and embrace her into the world   of maths i thought i would give her a mathematical 
embrace. so welcome to: ayliean's guide on how to give   a mathematically interesting hug...featuring lorna. 
so let's investigate first of all normal- normal   hugs. so there's the first one here, if you're just 
holding hands, this is not a hug. this would be like   the unknot, it's just a loop not a hug at all.
if you were to look at a normal hug, so usually   one person goes over, one person goes under - i am 
the shorty of the family so i always go under -   this would be your normal hug, which is two 
linked loops. and i don't think it's great because, without unlinking, you can just- you can escape like 
that. so it's two- it's two unhugs joined together.   every so often you get a- kind of the awkward 
hug where you don't know if someone's gonna go   over or under, and you end up doing one person 
over, one person under, which looks like this. which is better because you are linked - but 
we can do- we can take that one step further, we   can do even better than that. here is your symbol 
in a hug, the trefoil knot, 3_1, as a hug. so   step number one, the person behind you're going 
to have to do the over under. so i'm going to go   left arm under, right arm over. then, you're 
going to reverse that situation - so cross   over here and you just need to hold my hands.
cool. and this, although it doesn't look like it,   is a trefoil hug. we can do a continuous 
deformation; so we do it like this,  there is the trefoil knot, that's the trefoil hug. 
i'm sure you can like draw on there to show that   it is definitely a trefoil hug. we've got three 
crossings and we're completely linked, we're all   tied together. there is something i do want to 
show you about the chirality of that hug though.   so the way that mum draws this, it just kind of 
loops all together but you can draw this as an   alternating knot. all knots which have less than 
eight crossings are alternating. so if i start here- so here it is as an alternating knot where it goes under, over, under, over, under - so it 
continues with the under, over. but there is another. so you can do this again but 
instead of starting going over   you can start going under. so if i draw the 
exact same knot but with an under to start with - this is like doing something left handed for me - hopefully i haven't drawn the same knot - nope, 
it's all good. okay, so these two knots, they   both have three crossings, they're both a trefoil 
knot but they are different, they have chirality,   which is like a handedness. so they've got 
a left-handed knot and a right-handed knot. chirality, such an interesting symmetry,
and you can see that in the hug. so back to-  back to the hugs. so if we did the one that we 
did before, where we do one over, one under, cross   it, join - you can only deform this in 
one way. so you can only do it like this   where it goes over the left hand side. you want 
to go back in? if you try and go the other way it- it doesn't work, it doesn't work because of 
the chirality, it only has one direction. so if   you wanted to do the other sided knot, rather 
than going left hand under, right hand over  i would have to go this way round and 
this one's over, so it's going to go under,   join - and then now we should 
be able to go the other way. so, chirality!
- (brady: which hug did you like best, mum?)
- umm just the plain old good   hug, yeah. 
- (she's over complicating things) 
- it's always okay to hug your mum, any way you like. i have tried - this is gonna make 
me sound like such a sad person - i've tried to do these hug knots on my own. it doesn't work.
- (how- what do you even do?)
- well so this   this trefoil knot, the 3_1 knot, 
is sometimes called the overhand knot?