- it's a fact of life
that, wherever you go, someone is always trying
to sell you something. whether it's a brand hyping up their latest 1.21 gigahertz cpu, or a so-called influencer
rubbing your face in a brand new gaming setup that you would have to
save for years to afford, for the third time this week. but i'm gonna let you
in on a little secret. come on, come over here. you don't have to buy anything. in fact, i bet the old crappy quad-core pc that you already have is good enough for anything you'd need it to do. and if it's not, you could get
one of those for much cheaper than the fancy eight or 16 core cpus that all the big players want you to buy. let me show you, after i show you today's
sponsor, glasswire. are you lagging out while gaming? use glasswire to see what apps
are wasting your bandwidth and causing your games to lag. get 25% off using offer code
linus at the link below. and yes, i appreciate the irony. (upbeat music) there have been many popular four core cpus over the...
(metal thudding) (crew laughing) there have been many
popular four-core cpus over the last 10 years, and
we can't test all of them, but we do have a handful, dating from today all the
way back to early 2013. we've used an rtx 2080 founders edition for all of our tests, and we ran our gaming tests at 1080p, so more of the burden will be on the cpu rather than the gpu. i don't wanna waste your time, so let's jump right into the
results where, whoo-whee! wow, look at that. i mean, it sure is easy to show you what a piece of crap your
old 4770k is, isn't it? the 3300x, which represents
a modern quad-core cpu, manages to beat it handily, and stepping up to six or eight cores, especially with the 5800x, which features amd's
latest zen-3 architecture, is gonna deliver a completely different
computing experience. that is, as long as you actually use any of these applications. the truth of the matter
is that the benchmarks that we and other members
of the tech press use to compare processors are not chosen for how representative they are of the typical user's daily workload. rather, they're often
chosen because they allow us to demonstrate how their
performance differs for heavy users, or in future workloads that might not be mainstream yet, but we expect them to be at
some point down the road. like, there's a pretty good
chance that you personally have never fired up v-ray or cinema 4d. there's a good chance you
don't edit or encode videos. so, if we flashed these
charts in front of you, you could easily end up
spending a lot of money for something that you might never need. even file decompression, which this is something
that we all do often when we unpack a download
from the internet and is a poster child for the
benefits of multi-core cpu's, well, it's a relatively
light workload these days, and most decompression tasks
will complete in seconds on any of the cpu's on this chart. so, does it really matter
the two or three times a week that it comes up, if it's
25 seconds or 45 seconds? it's time for the other side of this coin. while our cinebench r23
single thread, web browsing, "grand theft auto v", and
"cs:go" results demonstrate that there are certainly
benefits to modern processors, the addition of more cores
isn't the biggest one. and check this out. if we covered the legend on these "assassin's
creed: valhalla" results, you'd be hard pressed to guess which cpu's have four, six, or eight cores. go ahead and try. but hold on a second, linus, everyone knows that fps and action games are still dependent on
just a handful of threads. you need to test strategy games that can use a multi-core cpu to calculate all the possible ai moves or whatever. and yeah, someday that will
probably be a valid point, but it is not this day. and we did a quick "civilization vi" run on our zen-2 cpus to
demonstrate that point. now, with the latest gen
consoles from the big players featuring eight core, 16 thread cpus now, we are going to see developers really push to take advantage of everything they can squeeze out of them, but if history is anything to go on, it'll be a while before we see a game that was really built from the ground up for this generation of hardware, and it'll be years before we
see these many-core designs used to their fullest potential, which doesn't mean our video
is over, not even close. i haven't even mentioned lttstore.com, with its great designs and
high quality shirts yet. the thing is game consoles
do pretty much one thing: they game, but your pc could
be doing any number of things, capturing video from your webcam, removing ambient noise
from your microphone feed, encoding a stream to share
with your friends or viewers. what happens to our quad-core performance when we throw common
background tasks into the mix? so, let's fire up premiere. we're not working on it right
now, it's just sitting there. we're gonna need discord,
little bit of obs, stream that gameplay, right? and love me some background
youtube music playlist action. all right, let's do this again. despite the fact that we had all of this extra software
open in the background, none of our cpus performed in a way that i would describe as being unplayable. our older four-core chips did struggle significantly more in "cs:go" with all of these programs running, with the 4770k actually losing nearly half of its performance, but that still left it at
over 120 frames per second, and that would more than
good enough for most people, unless they're especially
competitive, in which case, guys, turn off your
background tasks, all right? and moving to our more
modern quad-core 3300x, it lost only a marginally
higher percentage of its performance when compared
to the eight-core 5800x. in "gta v", the performance
hit was even more negligible. what this tells us then is that, sure, if you have more overhead overall, there will be less to worry
about when you open extra apps if you have a many-core cpu, but as long as you're not gonna be running 30 pieces of software while
you're running your game and expecting to get the maximum fps, you're still gonna get a
completely playable experience. but there are other advantages to overbuilding a gaming rig, particularly with modern amd processors. if you allocate four of your cores exclusively to your game, and this is something you can do manually, or there are tools to help
you do it, theoretically, it could help smooth out the experience, both by removing extra
clutter from background tasks on those cores, and by having
all of the game tasks running on the same physical group of
cores for faster cache access, at least in theory. in practice, we didn't observe
nearly as much difference as we expected, but some users on reddit have reported measurable
performance improvements, particularly in "cs:go"
with first-gen ryzen chips, so your mileage may vary. the truth is, thought, that
if you don't have a fortune to spend on a gaming pc, that's okay. a chip from 2013 may come
with unpatched security flaws that have scary names
like spectre and meltdown, and microsoft warns that
older platforms experience 52% more kernel mode
crashes in windows 11, but real talk, spectre and
meltdown are only of concern to enterprise and business
customers, for the most part. and 52% more than 0.2% is 0.3%. that sounds like a risk worth taking, when a 4770k can be had for
about a hundred bucks on ebay. there is still the question
of whether it's wise to buy into aging technology like ddr3 when older ryzen 3000 chips
can be had for not much more, but that one is just gonna come down to your individual budget,
which we have no way of knowing. what we do know is that
four cores is still enough, unless you actually need
extra multi-core grunt for content creation or
for non-gaming workloads. just like you need to check
out this sponsor message. thanks, ting mobile, for
sponsoring this video. ting mobile has new rates
that make it easier than ever to see how much you can save by switching. they've got unlimited talk
and text for just $10, data plans starting at $15,
with their set 12 plan, which includes 12 gigs
of data for $35 a month and unlimited data for 45 a month. and if you liked their previous pay for only what you use
plans, they're still around. they're called ting
mobile's flex plans now, and they charge just $5 a gig. data can even be shared
if you have a family plan, so you can connect more
phones to save more. anyone who signs up for
a ting plan in september, it gets entered to win one of four ting-branded yeti prize packs, and everyone who signs
up for an unlimited plan automatically receives a
free yeti tumbler as well. so, check out the details
at linus.ting.com. oh, and you'll also get $25 in
credit towards your account. if you guys enjoyed this video, maybe check out our ryzen 5000 review, which has a bit more
detail about how tasks pinned to certain cpu cores
can have a performance benefit.