broadcom is the second largest 
ai chip company in the world. thanks to that, the company is the 
11th largest company in the world.   over $600 billion as of this writing, 
bigger than visa and just behind tsmc. it is a bit crazy considering that 
in 2009 the whole company was worth   $4 billion. 150 times growth 
in 15 years is kind of wild. but what is broadcom? how did they get 
this big? what do they do? in this video,   how a little chip division grew to 
be a $600 billion ai juggernaut. ## beginnings the company now known as broadcom 
started as a spinoff of a spinoff. in march 1999, the iconic california-based   computer-maker hewlett-packard 
decided to split into two. everything unrelated to computers,   it or printers would be put into the 
new company - agilent technologies. the new publicly-traded company covered hp's 
former test and measurement, medical products,   chemical analysis, and semiconductor businesses.   accounting for about $8 billion of 
hp's $47 billion total revenues. analysts saw this as a necessary 
re-focusing of a business that   had grown too large. in an interview at the time,   agilent's new ceo ned barnholt positioned it 
as a coming-out of sorts from the shadows. agilent's debut on the markets was one of the   biggest ipos in history up until 
then. the stock popped nearly 70%. but the new company struggled to grow in the rough 
years after the bursting of the dotcom and fiber   optic bubbles. the company's revenues 
shrank nearly 50% from 2000 to 2001. and soon they started laying people 
off and selling entire divisions to   raise money and simplify the 
business. so in june 2005,   they put up their chip division - called the 
semiconductor products group - up for sale. ## spinning off the chips
there followed a brief auction... which pe firms kkr and silver lake partners 
won for $2.65 billion in august 2005. the government of singapore also co-invested 
in the deal through their temasek and gic   sovereign wealth funds. singapore had been 
a partner with hewlett-packard since 1970,   when hp first chose to set up a factory there. it was a glorious time to be in private equity. 
some of the biggest private equity deals in   history were closed during this 2006-2007 
period before the global financial crisis. big deals included the utility company txu (bad 
deal), the financial services company first data,   and the hospital company hca. these 
regularly topped $20 billion in total value. this agilent carve-out deal was nowhere as 
large as those monsters. that same month,   kkr closed a $10 billion deal for a 
majority stake in philips semiconductor. that was later merged with motorola's internal   semiconductor division freescale 
to become what is now nxp. nevertheless, the agilent deal 
seemed like a good arrangement.   kkr and silver lake believed that the 
division had the potential to thrive. hewlett-packard's semiconductor 
division dates back to 1961 when   the electronics giant believed that it had 
to bring component production in-house. over the years, that group expanded to a 
range of industries. some of their more   prominent products were fbar rf filters used 
for mobile phones' radios (more on that later); optical transceivers; and custom chips for hp's lucrative printers 
to lock you into their ink cartridges; but the semiconductor business changed 
a great deal in the 1990s. the rise of   foundries turned the tables on the economics of 
owning your own internal semiconductor division. and despite an admirable attempt to 
diversify, the division's cyclical   nature and chronically low margins exposed 
agilent to losses when times were bad. 17%   of the semiconductor division's 2004 
revenues still depended on hp itself. in the end, agilent's management 
realized that this business was   not "core". thus in december 2005, avago 
technologies emerged into the world. it   was the largest privately-held fabless 
semiconductor company in the world. ## hock tan avago's first ceo was the division's 
original general manager dick chang. chang originally joined hewlett-packard labs and   became vice president and general manager 
of the semiconductor products division. but a few months after its founding,   avago announced that it had a new president 
and chief executive - hock eng tan (???). hock tan is of chinese descent, 
born in malaysia. at the age of',   he won a scholarship to mit, where he 
received a bachelor's degree. then he   went to harvard business school to do an 
mba. after that, he returned to malaysia. there, he worked at a number of companies. first, 
hume industries, a cement maker affiliated with a   large malaysian conglomerate. then a venture 
capital firm called pacven investment. after that, he returned to the united states. 
there, he took finance roles at pepsi and   general motors before landing at the personal 
computer company commodore international in 1992. at commodore, tan served as vice president of 
finance and then cfo during the iconic computer   company's final days as it struggled with huge 
losses and low sales. that must have been brutal. after commodore announced its bankruptcy in 1994,   hock tan left to become svp of finance at a chip 
company called integrated circuit systems or ics. ## ics ics was founded back in the late 
1970s in valley forge, pennsylvania. the company was a design house, meaning that 
they designed semiconductor products but did   not sell them. they did contract design work for 
larger companies like united technologies or ge. in the late 1980s, they developed a 
hit new product - a silicon timing   device or frequency timing generator. every 
electronic system needs a timing element,   and many older ics used to 
use crystals to do that. the silicon timer replaced those 
crystals with an all-silicon solution,   and that was a big deal. it was a huge 
success and in 1991 they went public. hock tan joined ics in 1994. then in 1995, he 
became cfo. a year after that, he became coo too. then in 1999, ics announced a leveraged buyout 
by its own management team for $257 million. the   pe firm bain capital and the bank bear stearns 
helped provide funding. hock tan became the ceo. in 2005, ics merged with another company 
producing mixed signal chips - integrated   device technology in a $1.7 billion deal. 
tan became the combined company's chairman.   it was then that he was recruited 
by silver lake to be avago's ceo. ## the franchise
bloomberg quoted kenneth hao; a partner at silver lake and now chairman 
and managing partner - saying about tan: > he starts with a point of view 
that the semiconductor industry   has matured ... the businesses must be run 
differently than when they were growing up tan really likes the idea of focusing 
on a company's core "franchises" - a   word he has used multiple times. in a 1999 
interview while he was still ceo of ics,   the silicon timer company, he 
likened ics to a franchise: > we have essentially in our business almost 
a franchise ... in the sense that anybody who   wants timing solutions ... would immediately 
think not just of crystals but of silicon,   and not just silicon but of 
integrated circuit systems > our market share in the pc space is 
extremely high, and that effectively   gives us almost a franchise ... we get to be 
selected in most situations as the first source years later, he brings up the phrase again in 
a 2018 interview with the wall street journal: > it's about putting together a very good 
portfolio of product franchises to create a   lot of value ... there's no long-term vision 
or ambition other than that ... frankly,   we overinvest to ensure we are 
way ahead of no. 2 or no. 3 the franchise metaphor is illustrative. the 
best competition is no competition. fast   food and car dealership franchises maintain 
small localized monopolies over their areas. in the old days, the industry's 
cyclical nature and early growth   motivated the old guard semiconductor 
companies like motorola and national   semiconductor to launch as many products 
in as many different fields as possible. but things have since gotten 
more complicated. designers are   now often more interested in solutions 
for their systems rather than bespoke   components. and foreign competition 
has flooded the market with options. so tan's thinking is that today's leading 
semiconductor businesses need to build   and maintain "franchises". to be the 
instinctive number one choice whenever   a designer needs a thing for their 
system. a small localized monopoly. ## strengthening the franchise when tan takes on a new business, he wants to 
strengthen that "franchise" as much as possible. that means a focus on cutting-edge products 
within the franchise as well as new verticals   and applications to expand into. when 
asked about ics's growth strategy he said: > we'll stick to our knitting, essentially, 
which is silicon timing solutions. our strategy   is to expand applications, and increase market 
share in digital consumer and communications this means cutting speculative projects 
like the ones the old guard semiconductor   companies used to do. if it does not 
help the core franchise, chuck it. this approach has more than a few critics. cuts to   r&d expenditure or sales of non-leading 
divisions have long term implications,   since these things take time to bear fruit. the 
franchises have to come from somewhere, right? tan correctly points out that he invests 
considerable resources into existing   franchises - milking the cow so to speak. 
nevertheless, a company of avago's style   must - like a hummingbird - be eating 
constantly in order to appreciably grow. ## road to ipo
avago began life as a very diverse business. at the end of 2005, the company had five 
different end markets generating over 10%   of sales. this was the convoluted legacy 
of forty years of diversification at hp. so tan and his team started organizing 
this mishmash to create a coherent   company focused on its analog, mixed 
signal, and optoelectronics franchises. in march 2006, they sold their storage 
business to pmc-sierra for about $420 million. in may 2006, they sold off their printer asic 
business to marvell for about $250 million. then in december that same year 
they sold their cmos image sensor   business to micron technology for $53 million. they did one more sale a year later 
- selling their infrared operations   to the taiwanese electronics 
company lite-on for $20 million. these sales not only raised 
money to pay down debt,   but also slimmed the company's headcount 
from 6,500 in 2005 to around 3,600 in 2008. by 2008, though avago's revenue and earnings had 
not changed all that much since the acquisition,   the company had paid off a 
billion dollars of net debt. the improvement was enough for 
kkr and silver lake to take the   company public in august 2008, two 
years after it first went private. the two pe groups would later sell down 
their shares in the years after the ipo,   eventually realizing a 5x return on their 
shares. not bad for a couple years' work. ## the mobile revolution
the ipo came about at a fortunate time. 2007 and 2008 heralded the introduction of 
the apple iphone and the subsequent smartphone   mega-boom. and avago parlayed their early work in 
fbar rf filters to make the most out of the surge. as i detailed in a prior video, rf 
filters are critical but unheralded   parts of the mobile phone. they 
help the modem separate the data   signal from noise - saving on power 
and improving the user experience. these filters are actually more like mems 
- tiny tuning forks - rather than nvidia   gpus. but they are highly specialized - 
requiring special thin film techniques   for certain unconventional 
materials like gallium arsenide. as i mentioned earlier, hp had been 
working on fbars since the 1990s. in 1999,   they released their first commercial fbar filter. two years later in 2001,   they released the first fbar filter for 
the 1900 megahertz band, a gsm band. in 2008, avago paid $30 million usd 
to acquire infineon's baw rf acoustic   filter business and their patents. 
fbars are one major subtype of baws   filter. infineon's filters 
were smrs, another sub-type. in 2010, avago was first to market with 
an rf filter for the 4g-lte bands. lte   sparked a mobile data revolution across 
the world, forcing rf filters to have   to accommodate increasingly more 
bands plus wi-fi and bluetooth. this greatly increased their complexity,   and thus their prices. the rf filter industry 
grew from about $100 million in 2004 to over a   billion in total revenues a decade later. 
avago earned a good chunk of that money. at the same time, smartphones got 
skinnier and more power efficient.   this necessitated the consolidation of 
the many various discrete components   of what we call the rf front end - 
power amplifier, filter, switches,   and antennas. everything short of the transceiver 
and modem, which is dominated by qualcomm. so the mobile smartphone and lte booms 
were good for avago throughout the late   2000s and early 2010s. but by 2013 
mobile was some 50% of their revenue,   raising concerns of over-concentration. so hock 
tan and avago went out to buy a new franchise. ## lsi & the data center in december 2013, avago announced that it 
would acquire lsi logic for $6.6 billion. i covered lsi logic and its journey in a 
prior video. what follows is a brief summary. lsi had been founded by the former 
ceo of fairchild semiconductor - a   no-nonsense brit named wilf corrigan. they raised a little money, engaged a 
japanese fab to make wafers for them,   and came out with an innovative "master 
slice" system that helped customers   replace entire circuit boards with custom chips. revenues exploded to nearly $2 billion. 
however this space had many competitors   and times got tough after the dotcom bubble burst. after corrigan retired, lsi's new ceo shifted 
to a fully fabless business model and started   developing custom silicon for running data 
centers and helping to make them more efficient. lsi logic already had a foothold in this 
business through their work on hard drive   controller chips. they then bulked it up in 2007 
with a $4 billion merger with agere systems. agere was a spin-off company from bell labs/lucent   that made semiconductors and components for 
wired and wireless communications networks. together with agere's business, 
lsi logic built up a proficiency in   enterprise storage systems - networking and 
storage hardware connected to ssds or hdds. in a time when cloud storage startups 
like box and dropbox were raising   at billion dollar valuations, this 
franchise attracted hock tan's team. and for lsi, they had been in the 
desert for a few years anyway,   a payout would be a good end for them. avago's acquisition of lsi logic was like one of   those deep sea gulper eels that try 
to swallow fish way bigger than them. in 2013, avago produced $2.5 billion in revenue. 
their market cap was just about $12 billion. only $1 billion of the $6.6 billion 
purchase price was their own cash.   their pe partner silver lake invested 
$1 billion and the rest, $4.6 billion,   was borrowed. so again, hock tan and his team 
started cutting expenses and paying off debt. in may 2014, they sold lsi's flash memory 
solutions - which includes their pci express   flash solutions as well as controller chips for 
solid state drives - to seagate for $450 million. then in november 2014, they 
sold lsi's network chip unit,   called axxia, to intel for $650 million. 
the unit's chips help internet service   providers and data centers monitor 
and manage traffic over networks. ## broadcom & brocade
a year after that, avago struck another, far larger deal - the venerable 
analog chip company broadcom. avago had tried once in late 
2014, but couldn't agree on price. but the lsi acquisition drove up avago's stock 
and gave it a richer currency to do a better deal. so in april 2016, hock tan called up broadcom's 
management again with an offer, then tried to   hash out a deal right then and there. from 
start to end, it took a month and a half. the $37 billion acquisition was the biggest 
technology deal up until then. avago paid a   nice 28% premium on broadcom's share price, 
which was then already at a 9-year high. broadcom is a storied name in semiconductor 
history. founded in 1991, they produced analog   system-on-chips for high speed communications 
equipment like cable modems and tv set-top boxes. so throughout the 1990s, they grew 
with the rise of cable operators   like comcast and broadband internet. in the 2000s,   they entered a series of other markets 
like enterprise switches and networking. broadcom was another gulper 
eel type deal. its revenues   in the prior year were nearly 
twice the size that of avago's. as part of the deal, avago agreed to take 
broadcom's name and add broadcom co-founder   henry samueli to its board. it reminds me 
of those type marriages between a new-money   family and a family that is poor but with 
a long and prestigious name plus a castle. little over a year later, broadcom acquired 
another storage networking company brocade   for about $6 billion. again the cycle restarted,   cutting expenses and paying off 
debt. we don't need to rehash this. ## qualcomm so in just a few years, avago/broadcom 
gathered a great bunch of assets. it is a big company version of buying properties 
on mortgage, fixing them up, renting them out,   and then paying down the debt aggressively. 
rinse and repeat for a few times over. the issue though was that after broadcom 
and brocade, there were not many targets   left big enough to move the needle. but 
you miss 100% of the shots you don't take,   so tan went right for the prom queen - qualcomm. i also covered this saga in a prior 
video, but this is the summary. on november 6th 2017, broadcom offered $103 
billion - an offer immediately rejected by   the qualcomm board as too low. they tried 
to engage but was rebuffed - so they went   direct to qualcomm shareholders in 
an attempt to swap out the board. in january 2018 qualcomm filed a notice 
with cfius to block the acquisition.   cfius is a committee overseeing 
national security issues on mergers. cfius highlighted concerns about 
broadcom's reputation of cutting r&d,   feeling that it would extinguish 
qualcomm's chances of competing in   5g technologies against huawei 
and other chinese companies. in response, broadcom re-domiciled itself 
out of singapore to the united states.   then-president trump held a public 
conference with hock tan on this. the re-domiciling would have presumably 
invalidated cfius's jurisdiction. but the trump   administration ended the whole kerfuffle when 
it issued an executive order blocking the deal. that happened six years ago - time really 
flies. qualcomm's market cap has since risen   to a number above broadcom's offer price due to 
surging revenues from the covid technology boom. but the stock price hasn't moved all that much 
since in part due to the post-covid hangover,   huawei competition, and what not. as of this 
writing, qualcomm's market cap is $190 billion. looking back, i feel like the 
qualcomm shareholders would have   preferred the growth from having broadcom shares. but on the other hand, cfius's 
point was that they wanted to   retain qualcomm's ability to compete 
in certain wireless markets like 5g.   broadcom would have supposedly snuffed 
that out. it wasn't a money thing. yet huawei is still dominant in 5g and qualcomm's   modem work seems to be more in the news 
for fighting apple on royalty payments. but i certainly feel that the broadcom 
acquisition would have snuffed out   qualcomm's attempts to compete in arm-flavored 
laptop chips like snapdragon x. on the whole,   i still think it's a good thing 
that qualcomm stayed independent. ## the ai boom blocked from further growth in 
silicon, hock tan and broadcom   have since turned to acquiring software companies. this includes ca technologies, symantec, and 
vmware. basically running the same processes,   pulling out the franchises, cutting expenses, and 
paying off whatever debt incurred for the buy. but until chatgpt came out, there were always 
questions of what was next. what thing can they   get next to take them to the holy land? the 
answer had been inside them all this time. when avago/broadcom acquired lsi logic in 
2013, they also acquired a small custom silicon   design division that helped external customers 
produce their own chips for the data center. when google started on the first 
iteration of their own chips - the   tensor processing unit or tpu - they did 
not need that many of them. so in 2016   they engaged avago/broadcom to help 
design and produce the chip for them. why did google do this? because custom silicon 
design teams are expensive. you not only pay a   lot for talents, but also eda tools and ip for 
them as well. unless your volumes are massive,   it is better to engage lsi or avago 
to do the design based on your spec   plus other value-adds like testing and packaging. back in 2016 when the tpu relationship presumably 
began, custom silicon was quite small for both   sides. broadcom's revenues from that year 
was estimated at about $50 million or so. but it grew over time and by 2020, broadcom's tpu 
revenues were estimated at $750 million. together,   the two companies have made several 
new tpu iterations on faster nodes. when chatgpt blew up in november 
2022, it started the current ai boom,   with everyone from startups to tech giants 
getting into generative ai. many of these   players hit compute bottlenecks, because nobody 
not even openai expected chatgpt to be such a hit. google realized that their tpu asics gave them 
a huge competitive advantage in compute over   microsoft, oracle and others. so they started 
buying more tpus, which benefits broadcom. semianalysis projects that google 
will pay broadcom far more in 2024   for tpus - something like $8.5 billion. only some   lame computational lithography company 
called nvidia makes more from ai chips. that is not counting whatever they make from their   relationship with meta or 
other giants like microsoft. but nvidia isn't going to let broadcom have 
that all to themselves. in february 2024,   reuters reported that nvidia is setting 
up their own ai chip design unit. the   idea being to leverage their ip 
and expertise to keep customers   from designing alternatives to their 
profitable h200 and b100 accelerators. good. let them fight. ## conclusion i want to thank dylan patel of 
the aforementioned semianalysis   for some clarifying comments on this video. dylan is great. he did a piece prior 
on broadcom's history that i think   would be good companion reading to this one. so what is broadcom? friend of the show 
digits to dollars lays it out pretty clear:   broadcom is a publicly traded private equity 
fund masquerading as a semiconductor company. they have a portfolio of strong technology 
franchises. they acquire new ones,   slim them down, focus them, and then leverage them   to buy new franchises. they grow 
whenever they buy something new. this time, one of their franchises has stumbled 
into the heart of the ai boom. that does not mean   they won't fight like heck to stay there like 
with the mobile and cloud booms prior. i reckon   they will invest whatever necessary to keep 
and extend their position in this gold rush.