in 1918 a graduate student named masamitsu 
oshima traveled to the then-japanese colony   of taiwan with the goal of drawing a detailed 
map of its freshwater fish population. there,   he came across an interesting red-spotted 
salmon specimen that his colleague takeo   aoki had collected out of a stream high up 
in the taiwanese mountains near taichung.   it reminded him of the trout that he 
saw back home in japan, but not quite. oshima told his doctoral advisor dr. 
david starr jordan - ichthyologist,   first stanford chancellor and infamous 
eugenicist - about this new specimen   and in november 1919 they announced the 
discovery of a new species of salmon:   the formosan landlocked salmon. 
it is one of taiwan's rarest fish. i have a deep passion for fish.   come to the asianometry youtube for analysis 
on tsmc and national semiconductor politics.   stay for the conservation efforts 
of a foot long mountain salmon. the salmon's chinese name is ????? (yinghua gou 
w?n gui), which literally means cherry hook-kiss   mouth-salmon. it is a cold water fish about 30 
centimeters long. it can be considered a sister   subspecies to the japanese salmon and can be said 
to be the southernmost natural salmon population. its body is dark turquoise or green with a 
silver-white colored belly. it has 8-12 dark   bands on its side (called parr marks 
in the fish world). along its back,   11 to 31 black spots. it has a wide, hooked mouth. the salmon is a cold water fish and can survive 
only in temperatures below 16 degrees celsius.   most of the time taiwan is quite warm. a 
river with water so cold is extremely rare   and makes it unlikely that the salmon should 
have a home here. thus, it can only survive   in streams and tributaries high up in the 
mountains over 1,500 meters above sea level. how the salmon made its way up to these 
mountains remains fiercely debated.   some 10-80 million years ago the salmon's 
ancestors migrated from the sea of japan   up taiwan's rivers. but when the glaciers 
retreated at the end of the ice age,   those salmon found themselves 
trapped on the top of the mountains. salmon have a migratory nature. they spawn and are 
born in the rivers. then they travel to the sea,   where they feed and grow to 
adulthood. soon thereafter,   they migrate back to the rivers where they 
were born so that they may breed and lay eggs. the formosan landlocked salmon has no access to 
the sea, as the water in the tachia river's lower   reaches was too warm for the fish to survive 
in. so how can the salmon continue to survive? dr. oshima theorized that the salmon would trace 
its way up and down the river - something that   the river's long, relatively flat upper reaches 
allowed. the tachia river's upper river basin   gave the fish a unique sanctuary to 
survive tens of thousands of years. as late as 1949, the salmon was widely distributed 
in streams high up in the mountains of taiwan.   an observational report in the 
early 1950s found plenty of fish: > the stream water was very clean. i could see 
lots of fish everywhere. catching a salmon was   easy because at that time only few people lived 
or visited there and trees were flourishing   along both sides of the stream. the natural 
environment was not yet destroyed then ... but throughout the 50s, 60s, and 70s, 
their range shrunk to a single 7km section   on the chichiawan stream in the 
upper reaches of the tachia river. part of the reason for this decline 
had to do with the further development   of taiwan's areas. new highways and settlements 
in the upper tachia river basin had increased   the population from 500 scattered indigenous 
to 55,000 waishengren and other settlers. new methods of fishing the salmon population 
had devastating effect on the population.   using poison, dynamite, and electricity, 
the fish rapidly declined in numbers. furthermore, a number of dams built along taiwan's 
rivers isolated and shrank the population.   the most significant of these dams was the 
techi dam, taiwan's tallest. completed in 1974,   the dam is over 778 feet high and stands as one 
of taiwan's proudest engineering achievements. the dam is indeed a beautiful sight and is worth 
a visit to the heping district in taichung.   but it and the silt-trapping dams built alongside 
the river's reaches also presented a significant   threat to the salmon by vastly limiting 
its habitat. combined with illegal logging   activities and deforestation, the salmon has lost 
a significant amount of what was once its home. along with the formosan sika deer and the mikado 
pheasant, the formosan land-locked salmon has   become a symbol of the island's natural endemic 
animal populations. it is featured prominently   on the 2000 ntd bill (which i admit is not 
all that common) along with those animals. considering that many such endemic 
species on islands like new zealand   are usually wiped out with human settlement,   that a few taiwanese animals like the salmon 
and its ilk have survived is pretty amazing.   taiwan has already lost the formosan clouded 
leopard. the salmon deserves to keep surviving. the fish's special traits have 
been recognized since antiquity.   the aboriginal tribes living in the 
mountains have fished it for over four   thousand years. they believed that the 
fish was a gift from their ancestors. in 1938, the japanese colonial government 
in taiwan declared the formosan salmon   a national treasure. it prohibited illegal logging   and imposed a fishing moratorium on 
the species during its breeding season. these protections lapsed once the republic of 
china took over from the japanese after world war   ii. the roc pursued economic development and the 
salmon's habitat deteriorated for many years.   it was not until 1976 when biologists began 
to raise the alarm about the fish's decline. in 1984, the taiwan government declared the salmon 
an endangered species and committed to preserve   it. a series of publicity events promoted 
the salmon's importance as part of nature.   on tv and national papers, the salmon would 
be referred to as a "national treasured fish"   and a symbol of taiwan's identity. 140,000 
tourists visited the wuling area each year,   taking in the natural scenery 
and learning about the fish. the government worked hard with various 
stakeholders, including the settlers and   indigenous tribes living in the area. 
local farmers started a "salmon patrol"   to watch out for illegal 
fishing. and then in 1993,   the shei-pa national park was established 
to protect the fish's entire habitat. the population rebounded for a little bit but then 
has declined from the peak of 2,000 in 1987. a   combination of human activities and natural 
disasters have contributed to this decline. soon, a debate emerged between the local residents 
living in agricultural farms near the river   and conservationists. the farmers have been there 
for decades or even longer. but their logging and   farming activities disturbed the fish's home. 
and the fish can't be moved from the river. removing the silt trapping dams along 
the tachia river would also contribute   to the fish's future but in the 
end it became clear that doing   so would certainly cause future damage 
to the valuable tachia dam downstream. eventually in 2000, five pairs 
of wild salmon were collected and   placed into captive breeding programs. 5,000 
individuals were bred through the aqua-farm   while the scientific community debated 
their release. the question was made moot   when in 2004 typhoon ariel smashed 
the farm and released a bunch of them. the result is an increase in the population that 
continues to this day, but also a corresponding   decline in genetic diversity. scientists continue 
to study this effect and its long term effects. the formosan landlocked 
salmon is a weird creature.   it is nothing like the majestic salmon that we 
see in the ocean. it's rather small and demur.   your first reaction is that it should 
be more of a trout than a real salmon. but there is something about this fish that 
just really compels me. i just wrote 1,400   words about it! maybe it has something to do with 
the microcosm that is taiwan island. in one part   of the island you got high-tech skyscrapers and 
some of the world's most sophisticated technology   companies. just a few hundred miles away, you have 
dense mountain wilderness and this little fish. or maybe it has something to do with its 
circumstances - being trapped in a single   mountain stream nearly two kilometers above 
sea level, cut off from the rest of the world.   a metaphor for taiwan itself.