there was a retro challenge back in 2014 where? bobby sir is a challenge to do something vetro computery so i decided to convert the breadboard is an 80 on to pcbs and labeled it all up astley 2014 because that was what it was about a chinese special. yes yes yep, okay, well one if you've seen the previous video it's pretty much the same kind of thing you've still got the same said it processor 32 cave am a cave bomb microsoft basic on it you communicate with it primarily over serial and yeah, you can run any any basic programs effectively? it sounds like you've got a lot of fun in building this thing but you go out and say just buy a raspberry pi or some kind of arduino sector where's the fun in that where's the funny? the this this is much more much more back to the votes this is if you if he was going to build a computer back in late seventies early eighties you would have bought the components. you would have soldered the circuit boards together you would have built it up from scratch from there, so it's it's more are you not back to the past than necessarily the future like the the pie or the arduino so just points of some of the bits you might have to solver for the uninitiated yeah, actually what those disconnected modules each of the chip sockets has to be soldered on to the pcb all of the header pins ones which got discrete components like resistors and the crystals need to be soldered on and the headers on to the backplane and other trivial stuff there was a lot to be soldered on on the back there this is one above it yeah, it's not bad though your record for building one of these at the moment is an hour and a half that's that's from from unpacking the kit getting out your soul. you know an hour and a half later. yeah up and running thank you stream. what it used to be like trying to do a new program? prior to github if he was lucky you had a computer where there was a magazine for it so every month you go down to the news a just get your magazine and read through all the comments and all the listings in there so you could actually type in the programs from scratch and the magazine finding there? if he was a bit more niche there was a lot of male groups which was literally post off the information, so yeah you'd receive a package in the post unpack it all and yeah, you can type in your program from there or you might even get floppy discs in the post? a lot of programs can be can be adapted to run on this because if once microsoft basic there's a lot of basic programs out there, and yeah, it's very safe order to get those converted across there's there's a growing community now with the rc 2014. they're also adding in their own bits of software like like the fact all programs from newell's there so yeah, which is all being shared on get help, ironically so that's best. that's the way it's done these days that's why yes yes if you still want to do the typing code to by character you can do the icky things which i decided to do with this was was modulized everything into its own individual basic component, and it all runs on a passive backplane the backplane does nothing other than join the parts together essentially yes, yes if you start from the left hand side we've got the clock module so that animates the clock signal that runs the timing of everything there next let we've got cpu that's at 80 cpu running at 7 six megahertz on this one because that's that's what the clocks running at next to that we've got the the bomb which has got microsoft basic burnt on to it after the bomb we've got 32 k of them it is possible to double up on those if you want 64 k for him quite what you do with that amount of space no idea 64 cases because he large what what sort you know keep on that perspective how many how much space is a program take up today's to do say what's going on behind you oh the the program for that is probably 1 k. maybe 1 and 1/2 k yeah, it is very very small, and then only the white hand side is the communication that's the serial adapter. there's this one here. i've got it connected to an ftdi lead so that that is a usb-to-serial lead because it speaks serial is there's so many things out there which also speak cereal like arduino is likewise beep eyes it's it's the universal language, so anything with a serial pork and connecting and control it it is very very easy to get into as long as you know which end of a sold in iron to hold you can build one of these yeah that they are. they are quite straightforward it's all nice and easy to solder stuff. so there's there's no complicated tricky surface melting zone rs. all simple through-hole so yeah, building the app is actually quite quite straightforward as long as you can plug it into the serial port you could to go there's a whole bunch of terminal emulation programs out there. yeah, things like putty or whatever term which which you're gonna use to talk through your computer serial port ok then you just connect to it and then you can start programming exactly yes yeah, as soon as you turn the power on it's it's ready to go you know 10 print computer file is called 20 co2 10 we'd like to thank audible.com for sponsoring this episode a computer file and audible are offering our viewers. that's you guys free audiobook and a 30 day free trial if you go to audible.com slash computer file this link here you'll have to use a desktop device to go up and sign up and then after that use a mobile device to view what they've got to offer and obviously listen to the books today. i'd like to recommend creativity inc by ed catmull ed couples one of the cofounders of pixar and he talks all about how pixar go about making movies, and how he was kind of deflated after they had their first success and that's all about him kind of reaching his goal so he talks a little bit about one or two of the important ingredients that pixar have and of course remember they were the ones who came out with the first feature film to be fully animated on a computer so there's a computer file angle there. thanks once again to audible for sponsoring this episode of competes val quite a tactile thing to be doing it's very very satisfied. what would you like a go?