(jazz scatting to himself) (mellow music) - i mean i wasn't ready
for that one. i was, i got to get like warmed up
and ready for mystery tech. i can't just like hop in and be like, "hey, i'm austin, and today
we got some mystery tech" whoa it's crazy. [ken] - you sound warmed
up already. i mean, - yeah that was my warm up.
i just snuck my warm-up then. - all right, this actually calls back to a video that we did
a couple of weeks ago. - okay. - also i definitely didn't forget to give this to you when, uh, we did that video. definitely not. - oh no things are falling. silent hills origins? a psp? i'm legitimately confused to
what i'm looking at right now is this from ebay. this
looks very e-bayish to me. - it is from ebay. - okay - this is not something
that you can buy at retail. - okay. - at least traditional retail. - no way that's sort of the
word traditional in there, like, like, is this black market? - i personally, i- - is this stolen property? - i'm not saying that it's stolen, - wait actually? - but it wouldn't surprise me. - is this a dev kit? a firmware subject to license agreements. (beep) i can't show that. ken where did you get this? did you get this off someone on ebay? - we, so, we tried to
build the ultimate psp and i forgot we had
this. believe it or not. (both laugh) believe it or not. - so this is meant to be an
ultimate psp video. okay. okay. okay. okay. - i forgot about this big box that we. - it wouldn't be mystery
tech if it wasn't something that had been sitting around for awhile. i mean, it's a psp from the front, and a umbilical cord on the back - oh, that's all that is, okay. - now it's missing
everything on the bottom. there's no port or anything there's just a power switch
and a couple of lights on it. - kind of cool. actually, - so there's a little switch here, which is kind of interesting so you can switch between
reading off of a umd or dvd. if you're getting close
to finalizing your game, you'll put it on an actual umd like this, it'll work no problem. but while you're doing your testing, you're not gonna want
to burn a umd everytime so you can just put an dv throw it in here and you get the same results hot, wait. oh god. how much was this? - how much do you think it is? - these things i know, dev kits
do not show up often. $800. - wow. that's actually on, spot on. - was is really? - yeah, that was a hundred
percent what it is. - wait really? - yeah. - oh. that's not crazy for what really is a piece of, of history. okay. are we ready to press the button? 3, 2, 1, whoooooo. things are happening,
things are happening. oh yeah. look at that. essentially, i'm just getting
my screen mirrored here. i mean, this does seem
like a psp debug settings. so let's try that
available, aw look at this. okay. so you can change the available memory. so this is one of those
things that dev kits often do. is that while you're first, you know, troubleshooting your game and kind of putting it all together, these dev kit's often will
have more ram available so you can kind of get
things up and running. and then once you get a little more final, you can limit it to the
actual retail model, but you'll have a little
bit more space to work with. oh, welcome to silent hill.
oh oh, don't trust her. don't trust her. it's going
to end poorly my friends. this looks really good for a psp. look, i'm at gonna play
through the whole game here. but it's clear that this works.
now, at this point, i mean, it's certainly nothing
more than a novelty. a cool little piece of
history, but i'm going to say, even though this was $800, this is a cool thing that we
should definitely keep our hands on until someone knocks
on the door and asks for their definitely, legally
purchased property back, not sus at all. like at all. thought you're going to
pull a fast one on me. abstract art. okay so today in mystery tech we're looking at abstract art. - it looks abstract, but it
probably doesn't sound abstract. - what's an abstract sound? like, is this an abstract sound? (table banging noise) - can you just unbox the thing? - smife nit, smarf nit. - use your english dude. - this is not english! - symfonisk - oh, like symphony? - yeah, yeah, yeah. - oh can you fit that big
brain through the door? i don't think so. and inside we have
cardboard. oh, it's a sonos. so this is one of the ikea sonos speakers. - yes. - wow. that's uh, hefty. - okay but real talk though,
these ikea sonos speakers. fantastic. - this is like actually like, wall-mounted - yeah - like actually it is abstract art. - yeah. it's abstract
art and it's a speaker. - oh, look, abstract art. um, so, i mean, this is pretty hefty. it also has an ethernet
jack, which is very strange. so this is wifi because you
can run an ethernet jack to it? - yeah all the ikea sonos
speakers have ethernet. - we also have acn and acl. so i guess if you want a daisy chain this with a couple of other devices. - yeah. - okay. so i'm going to
pop open some spotify. we'll just start out with a
little episode of the test drivers, as you would normally
do and see how it sounds - kind of really isn't anybody better to talk about it really. so in case you don't
know, hamas is the cheat - it's like mike's in the room with me, that's pretty decent. let's actually listen to some music, but before we do that just
needs to find its new home. so we're going to loop
it down through here. - yeah. yeah. - where's marquez when you need
him, now let's see if i can connect to it yet again. [speaker system] -
question, should you go out? - that's pretty good. considering it's all the way back here. [speaker system] - just
a little bit more money. - we need one more of these [ken] - so now imagine a full living room. - yeah. - with these, you can have the most
invisible looking speakers. - yeah. it's fine art. right? so,
uh, we'll keep this one here. we'll get another one, we'll
put it right over here. - and then we'll get
one for ken's bathroom. - we won't get one for ken's bathroom. it'll be a stereo pair. and that means that for the
next episode of mystery tech, while you're watching
these sweet b-roll shots ken will be jamming out to weed music and i'll be listening to
the new kanye or something. i mean, that's pretty on brand i think. this episode of mystery
tech is sponsored by stamps.com. stamps.com is all about bringing
these services of the us postal service and ups
right to your computer. when it comes to running a small business, it is so nice to skip
trips to the post office, but just hopping on stamps.com. you can schedule a pickup
while also saving money with exclusive discounts on postage
and shipping with both the usps and ups. stamps.com has
been a tool used by nearly 1 million businesses since 1998.
and it's incredibly simple. whether it's your office, a side hustle etsy shop or doing
full on warehouse shipping. it's as simple as using
your computer printer. and within a few minutes,
you're up and running, printing official postage
for any letter or package. cut the confusion out of
shipping to with stamps.com new rate advisor tool to
compare rates and timelines to easily find the best option. and then just schedule
a pickup or drop it off. save time and money with stamps.com. there's no risk and you get a
special offer that includes a four week trial plus free
postage and a digital scale. no long-term commitments. just go to stamps.com/austinevans never go to the post office again. (singing to self) hola you can't throw stuff where
you're throwing stuff. i'm i'm not, i, i'm doing a gag to camera, but if it's all dark and stuff. is that the brand new samsung
galaxy z fold three, five g? is that the phone that cost $1,800? [ken] - it actually only cost me 600. - you bought this phone for - sorry 500. - wait, are you using the royal we here? - yes. it's with street tech. - let's reveal the big chungus itself. i will immediately say this
feels nicer than the first one. the build quality on
this just feels nicer. the tolerances are tighter. it feels a little bit more substantial. it also feels i could be wrong here, but a touch like, maybe
a little bit thinner. - it is a, a hair bit thinner. it's not really that much noticeable, but i think probably because
the edges are finally chamfered it probably can feel a little slimmer. i actually use this in
place of like an ipad. - okay that is where i think
you and i differ my friend. - i think it gives me enough
multi-tasking capabilities in a smaller form factor where i like carrying it around like a tablet. - my problem with this phone
since day one has been the fact it's too big. like the z
flip is nice, small portable. i mean, this is a, this is a big chungus. i mean that's, i mean, is that a z flip in your
pocket or are you happy to, no, z fold! goddamn it i can't
even finish my own jokes. galaxy buds too? - i got them with my phone for free. - wait. so for $500, with
a bunch of trade-ins, you got the z-fold 3 and the buds too? - they gave me a $200 credit, which that, fell right into place. - that's pretty cool. okay. let me take a look at the galaxy buds two. - see i saved us money - sure, sure. the galaxy buds have been, some of my favorite
earbuds for a while, right? you've got the buds live, which are super unique
kind of being format, that i was all about for a while. and then the buds pro came out, but the buds two offer actually
kind of similar to the beats that i have in my pocket, which is really stuck around for a while. they've got active noise
cancellation, decent battery life. but the main claim to fame
with these, supposedly, is the comfortability. i love there's
so many, 1000 x mark fours, the pebbles, that we took
a look at on mystery tech not that long ago. great love them. terrific sound amazing
a and c. case is great. like everything's great about
them, except for the comfort. i can't really use them for
more than an hour or so at a time until my ears get
really uncomfortable. oh sheee, that's cool. i've got to say like they
gave us the wrong color on the buds, but it's a panda. all right, let me actually
just give these a try and see how they sound. [music] (upbeat music) [music] so, first impression,
literally 45 seconds in, i'm actually not that impressed. um, a little scoopy, like a lot of emphasis on the
highs. more than anything, like almost to a slightly
uncomfortable degree. i don't think they're as nice sounding as the beat studio buds. which to be fair, i mean, sound
really good for 150 bucks. and now i will just kind of
remind you to subscribe and ringaling the dingaling bell
for more future mystery tech shenanigans onto the next segment. (mimics drum roll) i will keep doing that until
editing finally leaves it in. if you just saw me do this,
(mimics drum roll) thing. i've done that for months now. and they always cut it out. - have they really not left it in? - no, they never leave it in! - good. - hello my friends it's
everything we need from wish. so, uh, i guess now we
just have to wait like, three months for this stuff to show up and see if it's any good. i don't think it will be though. (mimics drum roll) - okay, this looks, wow. holy. did you get me gold bricks? - no. this was something
that you actually know about a friend of ours sent this. - is it the keyboard? - it is the keyboard. oh, okay. all right. all right. there's a long story here. i'm going to open it up
and i'll tell the story. i'm very excited. i'm very excited. are you all ready? and, okay. that's slightly less dramatic than i thought it was going to be. (laughs) oh, i can start. i'm starting to see it.
i'm starting to see it. look at this. look at this - oh my. oh, okay, okay, okay. so the story behind this is
the other day i was watching betty from switch and
click. she did a video on, it was a collab i'm making like
the loudest and the quietest keyboards. i saw that video. i'm like, oh, what a great idea for a
video completely randomly. like a couple days later,
she emailed me saying, hey, do you want to do a video
together? i'll build a keyboard. i was like, huh, yeah, i do. and this is the result. so, okay, hang on. so let me run through what
exactly betty and jake did for this. it's been cara coded
in corvette yellow colorway with an additional paint splatter design. - remember when you asked
if we got you gold bars? - or is there like solid? - look at the back of it. - yeaaah. - that's solid brass? no wonder it's so heavy. oh my god. the switches are the boba u-40s, a tactile switch known for
its distinct bump and thunk on each keystroke. they were hand lubricated
with crytops 2 0 5 g o to improve the acoustics and feel. let me just sort of prepare
my fingers for oral bliss. - what? - oral - no! neither one of those words. (typing sounds) - i'm a changed man. i can't go back. i think i'm wrong. i think i just have to
use this keyboard now. this makes every other keyboard i've ever typed on feel terrible. this is austin's keyboard.
no one touches it. thank you very much for watching. make sure to subscribe to the channel. wrangling the ding-a-ling button. go check out switch and click. they, uh, are talented. and i like the keyboard
and i'm going to keep it. take it out bye. i'm just going to give this
right back to you here. - no, - no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. - what do you got there champ? - okay. if you have the patience of, someone from lego masters, you can build this thing. matt purchases this with company money and he's going to build it and take it home because he
wants this for his lego diorama. you know what, you can, i'm
done with this episode anyway. - so despite what austin said, i did not just buy this
just for myself. i mean, that's very true. i definitely wanted it and
i'm going to keep it, however, i do have some ideas for it. that will definitely be mystery techie. what i want to do, is i want to install
this screen inside the tv and make this actually a working emulator. and i've already gotten started
on my super basic little guy. it's a raspberry pie holder. that's held in completely with legos. - oh, that's really cool. - yeah this is kind of
a monster build. i mean, it can't be that bad, right? like. - oh, oh, whoa. oh geez. okay. - okay. remember when you said
i only buy stuff for myself. - yes, - i did that. - oh, you build the lego in yes. - yeah, but i did some
modifications to it. i put a screen in it. - wait. for what? - i put a full raspberry
pie in here as well. so this right here is
a retro gaming station. - whoa whoa whoa whoa woah - if we power this bad boy up. - oh my god. wow. - so i made a custom splash screen for it - wow you even got the
right fonts and everything? if ken put this level of work
into all of the dumb things he buys from mystery tech the
show would be even better. so i'm just going to say, like, i haven't actually looked
at this either. i mean, the nes makes sense. i would figure if you would
do something like this, you will put it inside the nes, but you basically gutted the
inside when you built it and you have the raspberry pi and
you got some kind of custom lcd as well. cause that
actually the fit is really nice on that. - and if i take the,
take the top off here, - oh, i see the screen. wow. so you really took that
whole screen apart, huh? - yeah. so originally it was in a case like this - mmm, yeah. - took it all out of the
case here to fit in here. there is nothing in here
that's not lego approved, - is it an illegal build? - it is not an legal build - wow. i'm so proud of you. - there's no glue. there's no nothing. everything in here is
held in 100% with lego. - i'm massively impressed. look, we do a lot of stuff for mystery tech, but i think you get a gold
star for effort on this one matt, and i look forward to
the next time we look at more lego stuff on mystery tech? [ken] - no, but we got, we got some ideas for custom stuff. matt,
matt is, is scheming. - look, if this is the
beginning of your scheming, consider me on board. [matt] - perfect. i already
ordered a whole bunch of stuff. - of course you did - with your credit card. - yes.