- this coolant right here can
drop your cpu and gpu temps by seven degrees celsius, or it's a scam. i actually don't know yet. the people at go chiller claim that they have a graphene
nanoparticle suspension that is 60% more thermally-conductive than just normal, everyday water. so we're gonna test it out, just like i'm gonna test out
this segue to our sponsor. thanks to our sponsor, volta. volta's new gigacharger can charge four devices simultaneously, offering either 130-watt
or 200-watt fast-charging, depending on which model you get. check it out today at the link below. (upbeat electronic dance music) graphene was first discovered
in 2004, and ever since then, it's been theorized to be able
to do basically everything. well, except leave the laboratory. but for real though, it's
a fascinating material, and it kinda smells like liquor and permanent markers. (chuckling) graphene is basically just graphite, but instead of having
a 3d crystal structure, it's two-dimensional, meaning it creates one-atom-thick
sheets of carbon atoms in a hexagonal orientation. these bonds are incredibly strong. graphene is about 200
times stronger than steel, but this arrangement also means atoms delocalize their electrons, meaning they can move around more freely. these loosey-goosey
electrons is why graphene is such an incredible electrical
and thermal conductor. it's actually the most conductive material currently in existence. so, just how conductive? well, we have sheets of
graphene, right here, and it has a thermal conductivity of 1950 watts per meter kelvin. that is 20 times more than liquid metal. so, to show you just
how thermally-conductive these graphene sheets are, i've got a little strip right here, and if i put it down onto an ice cube, i can slice into it like butter,
using the heat of my hands. it feels like i'm touching
an ice cube right now. it's so weird. can you see it on the
thermal camera, andy? yeah, it's so strange. but these sheets have a problem. because of the one-atom thickness, the thermal conductivity
is just one-directional. so, this direction, this
direction, really, really good. this way, though, through those
different sheets, super bad. so why exactly should this
stuff work for cooling your pc? wouldn't having a bunch of graphite clogging up your micro
fins be a bit of a problem? well, maybe, i guess we're gonna find out if that is an issue. but the basic principle is
that you have a whole bunch of very, very small, very
highly-conductive bits, suspended in the liquid. and so it's kind of like the
water goes over the hot bits, and the graphene rapidly
thermally conducts in, which it then disperses back to the water as it's traveling between
your hot bit and the radiator. once you get to the radiator, it very rapidly dumps all of its heat, and cools down the water around it, as it's going back to the cpu. i guess it's about time
that we just empty this out, and see if it actually works, right? - [brandon] yeah. - we're gonna empty this guy out. it has ek's cryofuel in it. so that's essentially
just water with additives to prevent moss growing
inside of it and stuff. so, i think it's a pretty good comparison. oh, that's heavy. (chuckles) what do you think the
chances are, brandon, of me leaving today with
my clothing unstained by either graphite or red dye? - [brandon] two out of 10. - two out of 10? ooh. yeah, that's pretty accurate. fortunately, ek has an easy drain port, so, draining and filling the system should, in theory, be pretty, oh geez. that's not how that was supposed to go. oh, dear. i kind of do need help. - [brandon] andy! - nope, we're fine, we're fine.
we're doing fine, brandon. - what have you done? - [brandon] she's bleeding! - [andy] ugh, it smells bad. - (chuckling) it does smell bad. i just thought of a
technology that we can use. (quiet upbeat music) there we go. it looks like below the drain
port, they have a little spot that allows the water
to get into the chassis instead of out of the chassis. i would say mostly that's my fault, but (chuckles) i thought
it would work a bit better. as i was saying, because we have a fill
port and a drain port, this is going to be exceptionally easy to (chuckling) blow out. (quiet upbeat music) (liquid splashing) (exhales forcefully) maybe we just need several
people to blow on it. so, keep on holding it
there. i'm gonna blow. - okay. (liquid splashing) - [host] is it working at all? (spits) - it kicked a little bit came out. you sure know how to make a mess here. - yeah, it's a specialty of mine. so in conclusion, the ek fluid gaming, which i said was very easy to drain, and the short circuit about it, is not. it's very difficult. (chuckles) now, our graphene coolant should be a lot more thermally-conductive, but graphene's also the most electrically-conductive
material in existence. so, (chuckling) that's not
ideal for your computer. i want to see what the
resistance actually is. so across this distance right
here, this is distilled water. so it seems to be somewhere around, i believe 10 megaohms,
is what it's reading. come over here to ek's cryofuel, two, three-ish, something like that. so, ek's cryofuel is actually
a lot more conductive than just distilled water. and we come over to our graphene solution. it's about the same as ek's cryofuel. i don't know how much
i trust these numbers. i'm gonna call in the
engineers. (chuckles) so yeah, this is exactly
what it was doing before. - and that's the normal fluid?
- it started in the same spot. yeah, so, well, this is cryofuel. - [tynan] they probably
are creating a coating. - creating a coating? oh, yeah, that would make sense. - [tynan] 'cause they're
corrosion inhibitors. - yes, okay. - [tynan] so as it
naturally sits for longer, it'll build up a coating. - so, it seems like,
in our distilled water, we put the leads in, and the resistance stays about the same. whereas when we put it in our cryofuel or a graphene solution, it
starts going up pretty fast. and we're guessing that's because of the corrosion inhibitors in here are slowly coating the leads, and increasing the
resistance between them. so, that's cool. i just
learned something. (chuckles) now, another thing that go chiller said is really great about their stuff is its anti-foaming agent. so, foam is just terrible
for your pc parts because little bubbles and stuff can form on the micro fins in your
cpu, or in your pump, and if it gets out of hand in the pump, it can run dry and kill itself,
or it can be less intense, but just little bubbles
appearing in your micro fins, and lowering the efficiency
of your whole loop. so, i'm interested to check it out. i have my highly-technical
little agitator here. normally linus is good, but
he's on vacation, unfortunately. now, i tried paintbrushes. no good. don't agitate enough. tried this right here. terrible results. probably see the security
footage of that right now. (drill buzzes) (liquid splashes)
(container clatters) but this guy right here's pretty good. so if we take a look, (drill buzzing) there's a lot of bubbles
forming right now. i'm not entirely sure that we can overcome that
with the graphene solution, but if we can, i'll be impressed. oh, now, if i had to guess, this will be pretty much
the same as the water. (drill buzzing) oh! actually, it's foaming a little bit. you can kind of see on the top there, we're getting these
bubbles that are forming, which we weren't really getting
with the distilled water. so that sort of stuff
happens in your loop, and it's gonna be not a great time. i am curious to see if
it'll behave any differently in our graphene solution. it's gonna be a bit hard to
tell exactly what's going on, given it's black, but let's give her a go. (drill buzzing) it almost seems like
it's foaming a bit more. (chuckles) we're getting
a lot of little bubbles, kind of all over the place. i would say that was worse. so, that's not a pass. (chuckles) yeah, it's like five minutes later, and there still are a
couple bubbles in this one, and nothing at all in the cryofuel. so i think their anti-foaming
agent isn't too good, but let's chuck her in. i'm actually excited. i think this is gonna look friggin' sweet. that's why i wanted to use this computer instead of another one. we could've just built a test bench. oh geez. have you watched
"fullmetal alchemist?" - [brandon] yes. - this reminds me of
the thing that was bad. (chuckles) i don't
remember what it's called. this is freaky. (chuckles) - [brandon] i know, right? - and the consistency
just isn't quite right. - [brandon] it's like a witch's pc. - yeah, ooh. - [brandon] oh yeah, that's a bad omen. - (chuckles) yeah, i've been marked. i'm going to be
graphene-possessed. i don't know. i don't even know what, it's shimmering. it looks like it's alive. it's really odd. it actually looks like it's
infecting the computer. okay brandon, can you
give us some slow-mo? i feel like this is going to be the strangest-looking pump-pull ever. (dramatic music) we're just here in the bios. i need to change all the
fans back to be full speed. this seriously looks so friggin' cool. i've seen black liquid
in computers before, but there's somewhere between a texture and just the void in this that is so sick. i can't get over it. so to test this out, we're
just doing the two big dirties. so, furmark and prime95, run
them both at the same time. about as brutal as you
can be for a computer. so, just need to record the
temperature, 22.4 degrees. so that is slightly
higher than it was before. and then wait half an hour,
and find out how we did. all right, we're back, half an hour later. temperature's gone down in the
room, actually, a little bit, but the temperature has
certainly gone up in the pc. it looks like we're gonna have
to refer to the graphs here. yeah, sorry, it looks like
it did nearly nothing. frig. it looks like, in some spots, it was maybe two degrees lower, and the room was also a degree
hotter when we ran this. so maybe a max of three
degrees difference, but that's well within
the margin of error. well, i wasn't happy
with our test results. we were within, what, one, two degrees, and our test setup was
not able to resolve that. so, here we go. different test setup. we're in linus's office, where
we have control of the hvac. we have a different motherboard that the vrms will not throttle on. the cpu is pegged at five
gigahertz, all cores. voltage is locked at 1.4, and this is gonna be
an actually good test. so, we've got distilled water in here. we're gonna run this for half an hour, come back, chuck the graphene in there, and with any luck, it's cooler. and we'll know for sure
if it works. (chuckles) i've run this twice now
with the distilled water, and we've gotten 76
degrees max both times, and the temperature in this
room is quite consistent. we're also seeing 200 watts sustained for the whole half an hour on the cpu. so, i'm pretty happy with this. let's fill her up with graphene. - whoa. - heck yeah. oh, that's so warm. feels nice. geez, brandon, why did we not
do this in the first place? - [brandon] i don't
know. this was your idea. - all right, you are no longer needed. - thank you.
- you wouldn't have to fill that complicated system. - thank you for your assistance. - you're welcome. - [brandon] that's a way
easier fill than we did. - yeah, that was super easy. (chuckles) oh, we're seeing it again. the distilled water wasn't
doing anything weird, but this is foaming at the top. their anti-foaming agent sucks. (chuckles) all right, this one's for all the marbles. 0.1 of a degree hotter than
at the start of the last test. very happy with that. this test's actually good,
so no excuses this time. so it's been half an hour, and it does look like that
we are one degree cooler on our cpu with this test setup. problem is, we're also one
degree cooler in the room. so, yeah, let's take a look at the logs, but it's not looking great. (chuckles) huh, this might've
actually done something. it's only one or two degrees difference. at first, it was even
more, but it is enough. if you look at this graph, just, i think it might've actually
done something, brandon. - [brandon] oh my gosh. - that's shocking, honestly. let's see here, let's go individual core, and see what they'd, here's core four. same thing. it is noticeably lower. and let's change, just for
fun, to our other water file, since i ran that twice. it's exactly the same. it is lower. well, yeah, i'm pretty glad
that i redid our testing, because this does show an improvement. it's not massive, but three,
four degrees is measurable, and our test setup that we have here. so it does do something. it's not complete snake oil, and it looks really friggin' cool. it's legitimately the
coolest-looking coolant i've ever seen. so, yeah, i like it. i want some more. go chiller, send us some. mostly because it looks sick, but it doesn't hurt your performance, and maybe improves it, so, awesome. and you know what's also awesome? this segue to our sponsor,
micro center. (chuckles) thanks to micro center
for sponsoring this video. get the best prices and best selection at any of one of micro
center's 25 locations across the united states. use the micro center custom pc builder to spec out the best
pc at any price point. once you're done in the pc builder, add your computer and setup to the micro center
custom builds showcase. this is a great place for people to gather and discuss each other's builds, and get inspiration for their next pc. check them out at the link
in the video description. new customers can receive
a free 240-gigabyte ssd, no purchase necessary. well, if you guys liked this video, then consider getting subscribed, and maybe check out this video, where me and linus build
a small form factor pc, and it's really difficult, bye.