there's a popular myth that i've heard about 
several bridges (including the golden gate   bridge in san francisco and the forth bridge in 
eastern scotland) that they paint the structure   continuously from end to end. once they 
finish at one end, they just start back   up on the other. it's not exactly true (at 
least for any structures i'm familiar with),   but if you drive over any steel bridges 
regularly, it might seem like the painting   never quite ends. that's because, despite 
its ease of fabrication, relatively low cost,   and incredible strength, steel has a limitation 
that we're all familiar with: rust. steel corrodes   when exposed to the elements, especially 
when the elements include salty sea air. i'm doing a deep dive series into 
corrosion engineering. we've talked   about the tremendous cost of rust and how 
different materials exhibit corrosion,   we've talked about protecting against rust 
using dissimilar metals like zinc and aluminum,   and now i want to show you the other major weapon 
in the fight against rust. if you've ever thought,   "this channel is so good, he could make 
it interesting to watch paint dry..." well,   let's test it out. i have the rustomatic 3000 set 
up for another corrosion protection shootout, plus   a bunch of other cool demos as well. i'm grady 
and this is practical engineering. on today's   episode we're talking about high performance 
coatings systems for corrosion protection. this video is   sponsored by hellofresh. more on them later. you might have noticed a word missing   from that episode headline: "paint." of course, 
paint and coatings get used interchangeably,   even within the industry, but there is a general 
distinction between the two. the former has the   sole purpose of decoration. for example, nearly 
everyone has painted the walls of a bedroom to   improve the way it looks. coatings, on the other 
hand, are used for protection. they look like   paint on the surface, but their real purpose is 
to provide a physical barrier between the metal   and the environment, reducing the chance that it 
will come into contact with oxygen and moisture   that lead to corrosion. combined with cathodic 
protection (that i covered in a previous video),   a coating system properly applied and well 
maintained can extend the lifespan of a steel   structure pretty much indefinitely. although paint 
and coatings often include similar ingredients,   are applied in the same way, and usually 
look the same in the end, there are some   huge differences as well, the biggest one 
being the consequences if things go wrong. there are definitely right ways and wrong ways 
to paint a bedroom, but generally, the risk of   messing it up is pretty small. sometimes the color 
is not quite right or the coverage isn't perfect,   but those are pretty easy to fix. in the worst 
scenario, it's only a few hundred dollars and   a couple of days' work to completely redo it. 
not true with a coating system on a major steel   structure. corrosion is the biggest threat to many 
types of infrastructure, and if the protection   system fails, the structure can fail too. it's 
not just money on the line, either. it's also   the environment and public safety. pipelines can 
leak or break, and bridges can collapse. finally,   it's often no simple matter to simply reapply 
a coating system because many structures are   difficult to access and disruptive to shut down. 
applying protective coatings is something you only   want to do once every so often (ideally every 25 
to 50 years for most types of infrastructure).   that's why the materials and methods used to 
apply them are so far beyond what we normally   associate with painting and why the systems 
are often called "high-performance" coatings. let me show you what i mean. these are the standard us federal government 
specifications used in department of defense   projects. we're in division 9, which 
is finishes, and if i scroll down,   you can see we have a totally different document 
for paints and general coatings than the one   used for high-performance coatings. there's 
even a more detailed spec used for critical   steel structures. if you take a peek into this 
specification, you'll see that a significant   portion of the work isn't the coating application 
itself, but the preparation of the steel surface   beforehand. it's estimated that surface prep 
makes up around 70% of the cost of a coating   system and that 80% of coating failures can be 
attributed to inadequate surface preparation.   that's why most coating projects on major 
steel structures start with abrasive blasting. the process of shooting abrasive media 
through a hose at high pressure, often known   as sandblasting, is usually the quickest and most 
cost efficient way to clean steel of surface rust,   old coatings, dirt, and contaminants, and 
cleanliness is essential for good adhesion   of the coating. but, abrasive blasting does 
more than just clean; it roughens. most high   performance coatings work best on steel that isn't 
perfectly smooth. the roughness, also known as the   surface profile, gives the coating additional 
surface area for stronger adhesion. in fact,   let's just take a look at a random product 
data sheet for a high-performance primer,   and you can see right there that the manufacturer 
recommends blast cleaning with a profile of 1.5   mils. that means the difference between the 
major peaks and valleys along the surface   should be around one and half thousandths 
of an inch or about 40 microns. it also   means we need a way to measure that tiny 
distance in the field (in other words,   without the help of scanning electron microscopy) 
to make sure that the steel is in the right   condition for the best performance of the 
coating, and there are a few ways to do that. one method uses a stylus with a sharp 
point that is drawn across the surface   of the steel. the trace can be stored by 
a computer and the profile is the distance   between the highest peak and lowest valley. 
another option is just to use a depth micrometer   with a sharp point that will project into the 
valleys to get a measure of the profile. finally,   you can use replica tape that has a layer of 
compressible foam. i have an example of several   grit blasted surfaces here, and i can apply 
a strip of the replica tape. when i burnish   the tape against the steel surface, the foam 
compresses to form an impression of the peaks   and valleys. here's what that looks like in a 
cross-section view. when the tape is removed,   we can measure its new thickness, subtract 
the thickness of the plastic liner,   and get a measure of the surface profile. here's 
a look at how the foam looks after burnishing on   a relatively smooth surface and a very rough one. 
i used my depth micrometer to measure a profile of   about 1 mil or 25 microns for the smooth surface 
and about 2.5 mil or 63 microns on the rough one. just to demonstrate the importance of surface 
preparation, i'm going to do a little coating   of my own here in my garage. i've got four samples 
of steel here: two i've roughened up using a flap   disc on a grinder (in lieu of sand blasting), and 
two i've sanded to a fairly smooth surface. they   aren't mirror surfaces, but the surface profile 
is much lower than that of the roughened samples.   i also have some oil and i'll spread a thin coat 
on one of the rough samples and one of the smooth   ones. i wiped the oil off with a paper towel, but 
no soap. so now we have all the phases of youth   here: smooth and clean, rough and clean, rough and 
oily, and smooth and oily. i'll coat one side of   all four samples using this epoxy product, leaving 
the other sides exposed. notice how the wet paint   doesn't even want to stick to the dirty surfaces, 
but it eventually does lay down. i put two coats   on each sample, and now it's into the rustomatic 
3000, the silliest machine i've ever built. i   go into more detail on this in the cathodic 
protection video if you want to learn more,   but essentially it's going to dip these samples 
in saltwater, let them dry, take a photo,   and do it all over again roughly every 5 minutes 
to stress test these steel samples. we'll leave   it running for a few weeks and come back to 
see how the samples hold up against corrosion. there are countless types of coating systems in 
use around the world to protect steel against   corrosion. the chemistry and availability of new 
and more effective coatings continue to evolve,   but there is somewhat of an industry standard 
system used in infrastructure projects that   consists of three coats. the first coat, called 
the primer, is used to adhere strongly to the   steel and provide the first layer of protection. 
sometimes the primer coat includes particles   of zinc metal. just like using a zinc anode to 
provide cathodic protection, a zinc-rich prime   coat can sacrifice itself to protect steel from 
corrosion if any moisture gets through. next the   midcoat provides the primary barrier to moisture 
and air. epoxy is a popular choice because it   adheres well and lasts a long time. epoxy often 
comes in two parts that you have to mix together,   like the product i used on those steel 
samples. but, epoxy has a major weakness:   uv rays. so, most coating systems use a topcoat 
of polyurethane whose main purpose is to protect   the epoxy midcoat from being damaged by the rays 
of the sun. it's often clear to visible light,   but ultraviolet light is blocked 
so it can't damage the lower coats. the coating manufacturer provides detailed 
instructions on how to apply each coating   and under what environmental conditions it 
can be done. they've tested their products   diligently and they don't want to pay 
out warranties if something goes wrong,   so coating manufacturers go to a lot of trouble to 
make sure contractors use each product correctly.   they often have to wait for clear or cool days 
before coating to make sure each layer meets the   specifications for humidity and temperature. 
even the applied thickness of the product can   affect a coating's performance. a coating that 
is too thin may not provide enough of a barrier,   and one that is too thick may shrink and crack. 
manufacturers often give a minimum and maximum   thickness of the coating, both before and 
after it dries. wet film thickness can be   measured using one of these little gauges. i 
just press it into the wet paint and i can see   the highest thickness measurement that 
picked up some of the coating. dry film   thickness can also be measured in the field 
for quality control using a magnetic probe. of course, once the coating is applied and dry, 
it has to be inspected for coverage. coatings   are particularly vulnerable to damage since they 
are so thin, and defects (called holidays) can   be hard to spot by eye. holiday detecting 
devices are used by coating inspectors to   make sure there are no uncovered areas of steel. 
most of them work just like the game of operation,   but with higher voltage and fancier probes. 
if any part of the probe touches bare metal,   an alarm will sound, notifying the inspector 
of even the tiniest pinhole or air bubble in   the coating so it can be repaired. once the 
system passes the quality control check,   the structure can be put into 
service with the confidence that   it will be protected from corrosion 
for the next several decades to come. let's check in on the rustomatic 3000 and 
see how the samples did. surprisingly,   you can't see much difference in the time lapse 
view. i let these samples run for about 3 weeks,   and the uncoated steel underwent much more 
corrosion than the coated area of each square.   i also have dried salt deposits all over 
my shop now. but, the real difference was   visible once the samples were cleaned up. i used 
a pressure washer to blast off some of the rust,   and this was enough to remove the epoxy coating 
on all the samples except the rough and clean   one. that sample took a little more effort 
to remove the coating. at first glance,   the coating appears to have protected all the 
samples against this corrosion stress test,   but if you look around the edges, 
the difference becomes obvious. the rough and clean sample had the least intrusion 
of rust getting under the edges of the coating,   and you can see that nearly the entire 
coated area is just as it was before the   test. the smooth and clean sample had much 
more rust under the edges of the coating   that you can see in these semicircular areas 
protruding into the coated area. similarly,   the roughened yet oily sample had those 
semicircular intrusions of rust all around   the perimeter of the coated area. the smooth and 
dirty sample was, as expected, the worst of them   all. lots of corrosion got under the coating on 
all sides, including a huge area along nearly   the entire bottom of the coated area. it's not a 
laboratory test, but it is a conspicuous example   of the importance of surface preparation when 
applying a coating for corrosion protection. like those samples, i'm just scratching the 
surface of high performance coating systems in   this video. even within the field of corrosion 
engineering, coatings are a major discipline   with a large body of knowledge and expertise 
spread across engineers, chemists, inspectors,   and coatings contractors, all to extend the 
lifespan and safety of our infrastructure. we're back with another attempt of me cooking 
dinner while my wife tries to capture that on   camera, but this time we have the whole family, 
including wesley the editor. we've got two little   helpers who, let's be honest, aren't that helpful 
when it comes to actually cooking the dinner,   but they sure do make the process a lot more 
fun, especially when uncle wesley is in town. hellofresh is basically a cheat code to a fun 
and memorable night in, and you get a delicious   meal at the end as a bonus. it's always fun to get 
seasonal recipes and produce straight to our front   door. we've been using it for years now and have 
honestly never had a meal that we didn't enjoy. and, now that we have picky eaters in the 
house, hellofresh's kid-friendly recipes   make it super easy for us to get a dinner on 
the table that the big brother is sure to eat. hellofresh has a bunch of different choices to 
help you reach your dietary goals or just try   something new including vegetarian, 
pescatarian, and fit & wholesome.   give a try at hellofresh dot com 
and use code practical65 for 65%   off plus free shipping! supporting our 
sponsors helps support the channel. that's hello fresh dot com and 
use code practical65. thank you   for watching and let me know what you think.