- huh, huh, huh. huh, huh, huh.
(box knocks on table) whoa! hello my friends and welcome to a very special momentous
occasion because in front of me i have one of if not the greatest
game consoles of all time, the nintendo gamecube. where did you buy this? what is all this? it's just like an ebay thing? - [ken] yeah. - okay, well it smells like an ebay thing. i get the gamecube just
a little bath here. a little tlc for this little buddy. (blower revving) - [matt] whoever taped those
(tape rustling) cables in packing tape deserves
to be shot in the face. - tell me how you really feel matt. - [matt] i was pretty clear
on how i really felt there. - oh ok. ken how much was the
ultimate nintendo gamecube? (tape rustling)
- [ken] this was about $130. (cables knocking on table)
- $130? are you trying to tell
me that like fine wine the gamecube has appreciated in value over the last almost 20 years? as this was for a time
available for only 99.99. what a bargain? (package knocks on table)
(speaker smacks lips) oh, i was about to plug in our controller, but we have a wavebird. so the gamecube was one of
if not the very first console to have a wireless controller option. this was well before the ps3, the wii-- - [ken] first party. - oh, okay. sure there was some
weird third party things. but the wavebird was really cool and i sadly was never cool enough to actually have a wavebird. ken you had a wavebird, right? - [ken] i had two. - you had two wavebirds? (matt speaking faintly)
what? - yeah.
- richy mcrich over here. - so essentially the wavebird is just a standard gamecube controller, but with all the wireless
stuff built on the bottom. this is actually in pretty good shape. how much was a newish in box wavebird? - [ken] so with the packaging, which is a probably huge
part of this pricing it was about $175. (matt laughing) if you wanted it completely
unopened it'd be 350, but this one has a little
bit of a slit in the plastic. so... - you trying to tell me that i could have bought a
brand new xbox elite controller instead of a gamecube wavebird? - no.
- seems like a great idea. i'm much more in favor of the wavebird. (package knocks on table)
(speaker smacks lips) okay, so this is something
i actually did have. this is the game boy player. so on the bottom of the gamecube there are a couple of little ports that you can take advantage of which could give you various
different accessories. and the game boy player is
the one that i really liked. so essentially this is a
full game boy built inside. ken this looks... wait. this isn't a new in box is it? - [ken] it is new in box. (package knocks on table) - look i miss my game boy player. this thing is great. but this thing being new in box, how much was a game boy
player new in box in 2020? - [ken] so this was $360. - look i actually
legitimately feel really bad about trying to open this, coz not only is this
something which is really rare and very expensive, but this
packaging is like flawless. like this looks like i could
have straight got it off the bargain bin at big
lots for $35 in 2004. i'm still gonna keep this over here. i don't want to open this
unless we really have to coz it's still nice. i'm like dead serious, i don't want to open
up the game boy player. that's so nice. (package knocks on table)
(speaker laughing) it even has the "toys r us" on it! so this is the intec
rechargeable battery pak to take your gamecube anywhere. obviously as a very
advanced modern console with a carrying handle, you could actually make this
thing somewhat portable. but with this you could
actually take it on the go. wait, so this actually we
can do all of these together. so we would have to do the battery pak instead of the game boy player. i don't want to open the game boy player is what i'm trying to say. it's okay, we'll do that later. we still gonna try to be a little careful with the packaging. (package rustling) - [ken] so these things are like, (knife knocks on table)
oh jesus christ. - [speaker] what was that? what? - [ken] you were not so
careful with the packaging. (soft music) - whoo, that's heavy. that's an old-school battery right there. so it's really pretty straightforward. so just has charging on or off. which is weird i guess for the battery. it uses the actual gamecube
power adapter to juice up. oh, look at all these other things. so we could have gotten
the geforce controller. we could have gotten the geforce2.
- i had one of those geforce controllers actually. - really?
- yeah. - ah, so we have the game screen. we also have the game sound system which is a pair of speakers
that go beside your gamecube. memory card, video cables, (package knocks on table)
gamecube link. oh, and a screen. (smacks lips) well, how convenient for me? so this is the intec
gamecube color game screen. now i know this was really
popular back in the day. in fact i feel like you
wanted to buy one of these for a mystery tech a few years ago. we didn't end up picking it up. but essentially just like
with the original ps1, not the playstation one, there was a first party a
little attachment screen that you could get for it. well, while this wasn't a
official licensed gamecube screen from nintendo, intec
actually did make this. and it sort of color matches
alongside the battery. - [ken] i also owned one of those too. - i know you were a rich kid ken. i know you had all the cool fun toys. look, not all of us were as
fancy as mr. bolido over here. - [ken] when my parents were
gambling in atlantic city and left me in the hotel
room, this is my best friend. - you know i never mind. i'm sorry for your childhood ken. so, how much was the battery
and how much was the screen? - [ken] the battery was $30. - wait, so the battery actually was $30? basically msrp.
- yeah. - okay, what about the screen? i bet that was expensive. - [ken] it was $250 because
of the whole packaging and everything that it came with. - well, at least someone
did the work for me and it's already kind of open. so i can just sort of slide it out. wait, what is going on here? oh, it's got like a weird
like adapter on the back. so essentially we just take this like so and just slide in, huh? yeah, there we go. little bit back heavy. but now we have a screen
which just nicely folds on top of our gamecube. oh, this is actually really cool. you know actually suddenly i just realized this screen has an av in. so if you didn't want
to just use this screen for your gamecube, you could
also watch videos on it. - [ken] i played my ps2 on it too. - you played your ps2
on a gamecube screen? - [ken] i did. i brought my ps2 with me to
the hotel too just in case. - okay boomer.
(polythene bag rustling) - [ken] i have a feeling
that you might be able to run the game boy player and the
battery at the same time. - ooh. do i really have to open
up the game boy player? this is so nice ken.
(beeping) (slow music)
(speaker gasps) - [matt] it's not simba. (speaker smacks lips) (slow music)
(package rustling) - okay, that's not gonna work the way i thought it was gonna work. i've to rethink that a little bit. now that i've ruined my
future retirement fund, let's take a look and see what we've got. so first of all we have the startup disk. this is essentially what
runs the game, the software. that will then... i almost said emulate. it's not really emulate though. it's actually running game
boy games on the gamecube. okay.
(package rustling) we have our game boy player. so inside this innocuous little black box is essentially an entire game boy advance, including the guts of
an original game boy. so you can see we're gonna
have our little card slot here. but interestingly this
is the same configuration as the standard game boy, which meant that even for weirder
accessories like the e-reader, that actually would fit in here. no problem. and of course you have the link cable port. so theoretically, if you were
like me and had no friends, you could take your game
boy and trade pokemon with your game boy player
on a different game. i definitely did that a lot. so this is actually
really straightforward. so there's just a little port
on the bottom of the gamecube. and i want you to do is
just lock it in here. now if i can get this to all
work together on the battery which it will ish. not a perfect fit. you know what? that's fine. that's fine. we're building our tower of power if this was the correct company. which is not. (clears throat) our tower of nintendo,
our tower of pokemon. i gotta say i'm feeling pretty good about our ultimate gamecube right now. so theoretically if i put this disc in, we're ready to fire this up, right? yeah, all right. that's on. here goes nothing. (button clicks) (gentle music) (speaker gasps) - [ken] that screen might
be a little broken though. (slow happy music) - dude this thing is pretty good. like it's loud. (soft ringtone) what a great way to play
original game boy games. - [matt] it's only slightly larger than the original game boy. - so the next step really is
going to be can we unplug this? do you think it will work? right. here goes nothing. three, two, one. (screen clicks) no, well that didn't work. (laughs) okay. there's a little bit of power. it's not enough to
actually run the gamecube. so our 20 year old battery is sadly not enough to be portable. so we can't call this the
ultimate portable game boy. we just call it the ultimate game boy. - [matt] to be fair, it said
you charge it for four hours, we gave it about 15 minutes. (soft cool music) (drums knocking on table) (soft cool music) - (smacks lips) that's not for a game boy. (package knocks on table and floor) "donkey konga" is the rhythm and you... oh, we're about to find out. (drums crackling)
(computer singing faintly) (ken and austin clapping and laughing) (drums crackling) (ken and austin clapping and laughing) (drums crackling)
(ken and austin clapping) (austin laughing)
(ken clapping) (drums crackling)
(ken and austin clapping) (drums crackling) (drums crackling)
(ken and austin clapping) (ken and austin clapping and laughing) (drums crackling)
(ken and austin clapping) - [ken and austin] aah. - this is the greatest
thing we've ever done in the entire history of the channel. - i like how we having--
- what? - fun with this
(austin laughing) so many years later.
(austin laughing) as we do it like the switch.
(austin laughing) like this game is kind of timeless it's awesome.
(austin laughing) - that's a lot of stuff.
(packages knocking on table) so this is the mclassic. now this is essentially you can run various different older consoles
to hdmi with this, right? so essentially it's processing
off, upscale, anti-alias and sharpness or retro
mode for retro games. what is this? this looks 3d printed.
(polythene bag rustling) - [ken] so that is a 3d printed
adapter. - gc plug? - yeah.
- so essentially you plug it into the gamecube and then it gives you an
hdmi directly out of it. - yes.
- oh, that's super interesting. plug this directly in here. (smacks lips) eeh, we double dongling. look at that. double dongling. so 660 by 448i. that actually is not a bad
looking picture though. so now that we're double
dongling, let's triple dongle and see if we can really get
the cleanest hdmi picture out of our double dongle gamecube. switch again carefully. dongle. well, i'm trying to dock the dongle. the dongle has landed. (laughs and speaks faintly.) that looks like a fire hazard. the dongle actually weighs so much. it is literally pulling it
out of the gamecube right now. we're just gonna mount this
on the back of the konga to keep it from falling. (gasps) okay, i'm gonna unplug
the dongle for a second and see if i can re-dongle my dongle. not sure what seems to be the problem here. (austin laughs and speaks faintly). it all seems to be in order. i'll hold the dongle.
- alright, we're good. - okay, i'm holding the dongles. so there we go.
- oh, there we go. oh, works.
- it looks like, look how great our dongle
chain of dongle town is. - so it said it was...
- no. no.
- oh, no. - okay right. okay, i'll hold it. fine. - [ken] there you go. we good. - does it look good guys? i'm on upscale mode. i can switch modes.
- you know what? that actually looks really good. - okay, so this is normal mode. - okay. - so that's not upscale.
- that's not. yeah.
- i see a noticeable difference in the text.
(screen clicks) - go.
- okay, so this is upscale mode. - [ken] oh, that is definitely sharper. - [austin] and this is retro mode. (slow cool music) - definitely not.
- no. we're gonna do upscale mode. - [ken] upscale mode is where it's at. - so through extreme precision and craftsmanship here at overclock media, we've constructed the ultimate gamecube. so now that we have the gamecube itself with this screen...
(ken speaking faintly) - it's not.
- excuse me ken. i'm talking right now. - [ken] i cannot see anything that you're doing.
- well, i'll show it to you in a minute. with our extreme precision, we have our gamecube with
our display, our wavebird, our game boy player, our battery, and then if you come around, well, i'll get out of the way. come around to the back, you'll see that we have a
very expert chain of dongles. so we have the gc plug going into hdmi, going into hdmi male to male,
into the mclassic via usb through hdmi, into the
tv and it looks great. thank you very much for
watching this episode. no, so we're not done yet. we have to play some games now. do we have another game? - [ken] smash. (button clicks)
- my body is ready. - [matt] but are your nipples ready? - you wanna see my nipples matt? another thing i've never
played melee before. (laughs) (game pad controls clicking) - [ken] the c-stick does, wait. (game pad controls clicking) the c-stick is your smash - the c-stick does not work on this. wow, that c-stick is really
(beep) delayed, why? (laughs) - that sounds like someone
who is blaming the tools. - well, i mean when--
- like you when you play f1. (game pad controls clicking)
(computer beeps) (ken speaking faintly)
(austin laughing) - realize i'm up two stock right now, right? - i know, yeah. coz i'm like trying to figure out how to use this (beep) c-stick. coz it's not working properly. (laughs) (game pad controls clicking) - okay, let's rematch. that one doesn't count. (ken speaks faintly)
- maybe you guys switch controllers? - yeah, actually though.
- that's fine. - yeah. (laughs)
- i don't use the c-stick. i'm a real professional.
(ken speaks faintly) time to "donkey konga." - [ken] there we go. okay yeah, this is working
way better. (laughs) - oh, you know what? you're right. this control is actually a little sticky. - yeah, it's not working properly. (laughs) - no, you don't.
(ken laughs) no.
(ken laughing) (game pad controls clicking) aah.
- yeah. (laughs) - alright, well played.
(pad knocks on table) (ken gasps)
- best of three? - (gasps) sure. - alright, let's go. (game pad controls clicking) - [ken] okay, there we go. that's what i don't like. (game pad controls clicking) oh.
(computer beeps) (game pad controls clicking)
- whoo- hoo. - [ken] oh, yeah. i forgot you can steal my moves. (ken laughing) - [austin] no, no, no, no, no, no. go, go, go, go, go. the bomb, the bomb! (game pad controls clicking) (ken laughing)
aaah. no.
- that was your own fault. - that was mine. - [ken] oh, damn. - [austin] aah, you know you got me. you got me by one stock. - yeah.
(game pad controls clicking) - come on, no. (laughs)
(ken laughs) aah.
(ken knocking table) so what have we learned today? we have learned that the ultimate gamecube is truly a masterpiece to behold. how much do we spend on
the ultimate gamecube? i don't know. probably several hundred dollars
more than we should have. ooh, i shouldn't have laid back on the gamecube controller. ooh. (smacks lips) - but can you put a price
on friendship and nostalgia? i don't think so.
(drums crackling) (speaker claps)