- thank you to acronis for
sponsoring today's video. oh, you're just gonna hand me the thing? (stones grinding) gentl... oh, you know what? anytime the item is gently
handed, it means it's expensive, or something that ken
and/or matt want to steal. is it both? - [ken] it is delicate. - okay. the venom sound ferrofluid music mate one. so if you're not familiar with ferrofluid, i believe it's just like iron and sorta like floating in water, and they use magnets to
basically make it do stuff. - [ken] oh, i thought i
thought it was "feral fluid." - feral fluid? - it was wild fluid, like a feral animal. - like a ferret. (descending whistle) - so the last time we took
a look at one of these, it was very cool, and was
broken out of the box. so, here's hoping this
one actually functions. "this product does not include speakers and cannot make sound." - what?
- oh wait, what? - [matt] wait, wait a minute,
wait a minute, wait a minute. - "venom sound!" okay, alright, let's see- - [matt] i thought this was a speaker! - so this is the venom sound. so it's got this like, it looks like wood, but it's
definitely like plastic, or it almost feels kinda like rubbery. so on the back we've got a mic, which is closed up so
i don't think it works, a usb-c in, and we've got an on-off switch,
so it is battery powered. now you can see that ferrofluid, so they actually include a little magnet. so we can use the magnet
to move that fluid around, kinda get it all sort of gathered up. it's literally stuck, do you see that? (magnet clicking) it's like i'm scrubbin' the toilet bowl. - [matt] what, what does
your toilet bowl look like? - like this.
(toilet flushing) oh wait, that is a mic. so, watch this. hello, it is me. i am talking. heyo.
- it looks trippy. - alright, so i guess the idea is that you can play music beside it and it will react to your music. so at least, it's fairly straightforward. (bright simple music) what do we think about this? 'cause like, this is cool. i agree, this is legitimately cool, but how much is it, do we have any idea? - [alex] we bought it for $130. - 130 united states freedom units? - [ken] yikes. - that's $100 more than
i would pay for this. - [matt] i felt a lot better about that when i thought it was
a speaker. (laughing) - [ken] yeah, i thought... same. [music] ring-a-ling, ring-a-ling [music] [music] ring-a-ling that button [music] heyo, these are... oh, these are the statuses. the between 3's. okay, this is a very competitive
segment between airpods, between samsung, and
especially between sony, which if you've watched
"mystery tech" before, you'll know that i've been
largely on the sony earbud train for the last several years, so. what's the price price point on these? - [ken] so right now, on the website, consistently 200 bucks. - okay, so very much in that
super competitive space. that's a pretty big case, you can see, compared
to my 1000x mark 5's, which to be fair, are more expensive. we're now successfully paired. let's give these a try. so the buttons on each earbud
are more so for your settings, so turning on and off
active noise canceling, calling your assistant or whatever. and then the actual touch surfaces are much more so for controlling
play, pause, and whatnot. everything so far is really
kinda leaning me more toward these are gonna need to sound really good to be worth the 200 bucks. (upbeat rhythmic music) they sound really, really nice. that audiophile grade setup is terrific. and i like the fact that
they've got the long battery, but i don't like the fact that they're not immensely comfortable. i personally prefer a
lighter weight earbud. and i also prefer the
active noise canceling and the transparency on
some of the other devices. it's not a huge difference,
but at this kinda price, you kinda need to have the whole package, and it's like 90% there. a huge thank you to the sponsor
of today's video, acronis. acronis cyber protect home office provides complete protection
for your data and digital life. it is the only personal solution
with a unique integration of cybersecurity and backup technologies. safeguard your sensitive data against all kinds of modern threats, like cutting edge cyber
attacks, accidental deletion, disc failure, or device loss. and i've experienced more than my fair share
(laughing) of most of those. sure, you can get a separate service
that backs up your data, and another service that
protects against ransomware and another antivirus,
but acronis does it all. it saves you time, money, and it's dead simple to manage everything from a single interface. back up your data to the cloud so you can access it
from just about anywhere. as long as you use acronis, you have guaranteed data recovery. a must for any student,
working professional, or anyone who has precious
data they need to protect, which should be everyone. use the code to "austinevans2023"
for a 40% discount, which can be used for
all home office products. and thank you again to acronis
for sponsoring today's video. oh, hello there. is that the oneplus open? i will say that we're recording this
in late september of 2023. ken, i know you just
went to a oneplus event. - [ken] yes. - and is this the folding phone? - [ken] yes. - okay, this is gonna be
some real "mystery tech"- (duck quacking) 'cause like, i know zero,
nada, zilch about this one. is this the actual retail box? - [ken] yup. - oh, that's neat. look, you see how the whole
thing like pulls forward? so, oh, it's a smaller phone! wait, now hold on a second. i thought it was gonna be
one of those big chunguses, the folds and whatnot. this is actually a
legitimately smaller phone. okay, initial impressions. heavy, but i do like the width. i like how they still have
the oneplus slider on it. and the flash is separate,
which is kind of interesting. can you see the phone
behind that camera bump? whew! very small like, crease. in fact, from some angles and light, that's like not even a crease. but with my finger... like matt, i know you hate creases. feel that, does that bother you? 'cause that's really minimal. - oh, okay. - that's pretty solid. - yeah, that is way better
than than like the folder- - especially when you turn it on- - yeah- - you won't see it at all. - that's impressive. - it comes pre-installed with discord, logged into ken's account? ha! interesting. was this pre-unboxed, ken? - look, you spend a lotta time setting
up phones on "mystery tech, i decided to help you- - [austin evans] interesting! - set it up. - interesting, interesting. oh, we're logged into
ken's twitter account too. let's take a little look
here, you know, just to... oh, ooh, ooh. ken, we gotta talk about this. so whoop, whoo, whoop, whoo. that's cool. see, i like that kinda stuff
because we have to consider that while folding phones have
been around for a little bit, they're still pretty new. and this is oneplus' first folding phone. a lot of brands have just
started to kinda get into it. there's a lot more optimization
and neat things you can do. okay, so we've got ourselves... let's pop open that camera. essentially, i guess what
we're looking at here is for the 3x, this is the
actual full 64-megapixel photo. i'm assuming it's being binned down, but whatever, a very,
very nice looking photo. the 6x is a crop-in, digitally. but much like the way
that the newer iphones will do 1x and 2x, it's just a crop, and you'll still get the 12 megapixels, it's a similar thing here. and i'll say even the crop here, i mean, look at those beautiful eyes. i mean, have you ever been
lost in a single eyeball? (clearing throat) what? well, sorry matt, i just- - [ken] you just fed
the internet on that one. - this is what it looks like, a little video sample
straight from the oneplus. uh, it looks decent. lemme actually go ahead
and zoom out to ultra wide. now ultra wide, i think, is
always better for vlogging. like it looks fine, it's
not particularly impressive. i'll give them points for
clearly competent hardware there. it needs some work, but some
of the fundamentals are decent. i think color's largely
pretty good in photo mode, video mode still needs some work. - so, it is $1,699. - that's not it, that's not it. - yeah, but here's the
thing, a lot of us were like, "hey, why don't you make
this a $1,500 device?" and they have a thing
on the oneplus website that they promise will be in perpetuity for as long as they're selling this thing, where they'll take any
phone in any condition and knock off $200 off the
price in addition to trading. - so i can trade in my iphone
5c that has a busted screen and no shell anymore, and
they'll gimme 200 bucks off? - [ken] yup. - (sighing) that's better,
that's certainly better. if i'm basically spending
pixel or samsung money, this needs to be not only as good, it almost kinda needs to be better. and i'm, at first glance, feeling this is a little
bit more equivalent. but ken, by the time this video goes live, the denki video will already
have been live for a while, right?
- yeah. - so, let us know if it's
actually good or not. but at first glance,
i'm curious but not sold would be the way i would describe it. it's also heavy. (austin humming echoingly)q jesus.
(package tumbling) this is the park sung game card
reader quick-changing switch. wait, wait, wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait. is this like a... (laughing) - [matt] sure is, buddy! - is this is a six-cd changer,
except for switch games? - [ken] yes! it's like the back of a lexus. - how much is this quick-changing
game card switch thing? - [matt] how much do you think it is? - 20 bucks. - [matt] $32.99. - [austin evans] i don't
understand the need, so sure. - [matt] who's got time to
switch out all your cartridges? - wait, so i need power for this, so i assume that you're gonna
have to use this docked. oh no, okay, i got it slightly wrong. so it doesn't go in the
hole, it goes over the hole. - yeah.
- oh yeah, i know what that's like. - [matt] they taught you that in school. - [ken] yeah. - [austin evans] are we
talkin' about the switch? - yeah. - okay, cool. alright, so i'm gonna
open up my game card slot and pull out the copy of "smash." okay. so i'm going to insert this into the slot so i can put my games in the bottom slots, which these are all just storage, or i can put them in the actual slots. this is one, and then
i'll put this as two. okay, so right now, it sees "smash." okay, so i'm gonna hit the button. ooh, so it straight works. so i have two games installed,
so i have the train game, and i'll just hit it again
and then it switches over. - [ken] wow. - i mean, that does just work. - [matt] okay. - [ken] that's really
impressive, holy crap. - so there's a little button on top here, we'll probably have to get a b-roll, it changes color based
on which game you're in. so i assume each slot has like
orange, red, pink, whatever. the problem is like okay, so this works, but it's only for docked mode. it also is not really designed
for more than four games. the other games are just like
there for like your storage, which is fine, but like if
i care that much about it, am i not just going to
buy some digital games? alright, so let's do this. let's see what happens
when i hit the button. okay, so the switch actually
handles it fairly gracefully. this is an interesting one because it actually does
exactly what it says on the tin. the only real complaint i have about it is the fact that the tolerances
seem less than ideal. like when i'm putting
these games in and out, there's like a point like
halfway through the click which feels like i'm like
grinding it in a little bit. it doesn't feel smooth,
nowhere near as nice as actually putting it
into the switch itself. so that's probably the main concern is that this might do some
damage to your carts long term. but if you play your
switch in docked mode, own a lot of physical games, and don't wanna get up and change them, and don't wanna buy the
digital copies, great product! queue... (package thumping) no, no, i was gonna do a ga... (package thumping) no, no, i was gonna do a gag,
where i could put my hand up and it like magically appears in my hand. - [joanna] you already did that. (package thumping) - boox note air2 plus. an e ink tablet? well that's a dumb idea, why
would you want an e ink tablet? 10.3-inch,'72x1404 display, front lit, capacitive and stylus, with an octa-core processor in android 11. alright. wow, that's a big boy. it's very thin though. whoa, whoa, whoa. okay, hold on. that thinness is actually legit. i will give this a
moment of consideration. oh, it's green, it's green. do you see that green? ooh, ooh. okay, you know what? all the things i said that
were dumb that were like, "i don't like this thing,"
it's actually kinda nice. - [ken] it's almost like you don't judge a book
by its cover. (laughing) - i judged an ebook by its box. (laughing) "dark color enhancement,"
"light color filter." so clearly, there's a lot
of custom stuff they've done with this version of android
to optimize it for e ink. okay, got it. this backlight's  actually really cool. so in a fairly dark environment like this, it is honestly brighter than
i would actually wanna run it. like, i actually would
turn it down a little bit. but if you're using any kinda
like normal ambient lighting, the actual screen is super readable. now because it's e ink, there's a lot of ghosting on the display, a lot of sort of older
images that kinda stick in. now i will say, it's not really
great for scrolling though. it's probably better for
like actual like page flips because you do still have a
little bit of the smearing, which i'm sure will eventually
clear if i keep like reading. but i will say, like this
refresh rate and responsiveness, legitimately pretty nice. - [ken] so they're pushing
this as a premium device, so it's priced like one. - okay, and what... okay, uh, 300 bucks. - [ken] nope. - 400 bucks? - [ken] nope. - 500 bucks? - [ken] bingo. - i'm sure there are many
fine people in the comments who are gonna tell me
why it's worth the money and all the cool features this has. and i agree, it's a
nice piece of hardware, it feels really cool, this
display is pretty solid. but, 500 bucks is a lot of money. - [matt] austin, you know what i haven't
told you in a while? - that i'm handsome,
and really attractive, and well worth ring-a-ling
the ding-a-ling button for. - [matt] this is gonna make
what i say now awkward. take it off, boy. - no, no, no! "glow in the dark t-shirt: draw
on your t-shirt with light"? - [ken] we're goin' to edc today. - "it's fun for festivals and
parties, all the glow vibes," yah, "and a gift for your friends." (everyone laughing) - [matt] okay. - "the designs last up to five minutes before slowly fading away," same. "draw over an object or stencil to create a cool shadow effect. you can draw using a glow
torch or your phone flashlight," and "batteries are included"
for the light, i'm assuming. it's like a screen-print t-shirt that was like a really thick design. have you ever got one that's usually like a little bit cheap, maybe you got it at the mall or something, and it's like a solid chunk of ink which almost feels like
rubber on the middle? like, that's kinda what this feels like. whoo! ooh, it's black light. oh no, i can't use that in here anymore. - [matt] why? oh, that was weird. - let's go bruh! i'm gonna party it up. who needs lights when
you got the black light? what do you... what... don't press those big red buttons, matt, don't press them big red buttons. (matt cracking knuckles) oh no, he's cookin'. (austin beat boxing) (austin sniffing) whoo! (laughing) - [ken] whoa, we don't talk about that- - oh, censor that please. it's gonna be really
hard to tell on camera, my shirt is slightly glowing, so i'm going to start drawing on it. - oh, oh, oh!
- can you see that on camera? - [matt] oh yeah. - [ken] oh shoot. oh, that's actually really clever. - can i get... what's a cool look? oh, i got it, i got it, i got it. - [matt] okay, i think we got it. - everybody ready? - [ken] yeah, go for it. - [matt] okay! - it's roboraptor, boys! - [matt] that worked slightly better than i thought it would work. - right? how much was this shirt? - [alex] $30. - honestly, kinda fun. the problem is that it
fades away really quickly. so like, for the best results, you kinda have to have the
light like directly on it. lemme try my phone flashlight
and see how that works. oh, the problem is the phone
flashlight's too like... - [alex] dull. - yeah, yeah, yeah. like here, if i put it like directly here. - [ken] oh yeah. - [matt] oh yeah, wait, yeah so- - oh, that actually does kinda work. - [ken] house music right there. - [matt] whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. - okay, hold on. no, no, i got this, i got this. can we get a little focus please? this is gonna be great,
it's gonna be so hilarious. people are gonna love this. - [ken] wait, matt? - yeah?
- i got an idea. (austin laughing) okay, so. i win. - no... oh. (everyone laughing) that, my friends, is a close look at the most tech you've
seen in this entire episode. it's "mystery tech." and don't forget to check out acronis in the link in the description, and a huge thank you to them
for sponsoring today's video.