- welcome my friends to asus'... (descending instrumental music) (onlooker in black skirt laughs) - well, why do you have a... what is this? why do
you have a photo of me? why did i not shave in this photo? - did you not?
- is it life size? - [matt] it's somehow bigger. - i don't always expect to be trolled. why is my mouth... (ken laughs) hello. welcome to today's
video. boy oh boy, i love asus. - [ken] it actually works. yeah.
(austin laughs) do the video like that.
(austin laughs) - [austin] did you just invite
me here to make fun of me? what is this for? - so this is going to
help you give those guys some kind of idea of what our spacial vision 3d oled
display does to your eyes. what it looks like. - spacial vision 3d oled. - yeah. yeah.
- okay. - you can shoot it through your mouth. (upbeat instrumental music) - okay, i would like to
thank our friends at asus for sponsoring this video and approving what's going on right now. so this is specifically
the proart studiobook 16 3d oled.
- correct. - and the idea here is that not only is it a very high end device, but it actually has a
full... oh it's doing it. oh it's already doing it. oh, okay.
- what's it? - so this is gonna
deliver glasses free 3d, which normally has been
one of those things where it's like, "oh it's kind
of all right or whatever", but that... so, okay,
what's going on right now is that there are a couple of cameras which are tracking my
eyes to essentially keep the panel oriented correctly. if i use this, it'll lock
onto this, right? okay. so now, the laptop is tracking fake austin and delivering-
- fake austin? - well, what do you wanna call it? cardboard austin. you've got 120 hertz
oled panel here, right? that makes sense to me. and you've got the eye tracking to determine exactly where i'm at, but how are you actually doing
this in the actual display? how is it actually... 'cause
as i move left and right, i can see it's tracking
and everything looks like it's still staying very,
very stable in 3d space. - right, so there's a
lenticular lens system. - lenticular. there we go.
- into the screen, so basically there's
millions of tiny lenses built into the panel that split the image into left eye and right eye so. - gotcha. - part of the screen is
going to your left eye and part of it's going to your right eye and as you move, the angle or
the image that it's showing on the left side and the right eye changes based on where you are at. - oh, okay. fine. are we actually speeding? okay. so anytime you're trying
to shoot 3d on camera, it is very, very difficult, which is why cardboard austin exists. so i'm going to show what it's
like to come through austin. - [sasha] what
the world looks like through your mouth. - oh, actually that
does a really good job. so you can see that the 3d is
actually staying very stable. it's actually tracking
up down, left, right. those items look like there's depth. i feel like i could reach a couple of feet back into the display. so this is an option on
the proart studiobook as well as on the- - [sasha] vivobook pro 16x. - essentially this is meant almost as a, not a prototype, but
this is the first wave of truly good glasses free
3d that's no downside. - because of the lens system, the brightness is slightly lower, but it's so small you can't really tell. - this is, well obviously not for everyone and everyone who's gonna be
able to take advantage... you can't just load up a
game with like valorant and immediately see it in 3d. it does have to be an
application which is specifically able to take advantage of full 3d, right? - correct. so to be able to have it 3d,
you need two render targets. the left eye and right eye.
- right. - that means vr games always do have that and they work on this.
- oh. - so any vr game.
- interesting. - that works with keyboard
and mouse or with a game pad, works with this.
- that's cool. and of course, you can
just turn this on and off. so right now we've got it in full 3d mode but if we turned off the 3d function, you would never know it was there. it's just a super high quality
120 hertz oled display. - correct.
- this is very cool. i think it's very cool. i don't know why i did that. i'm making fun of myself with the voice. - [ken] it's like "the annoying orange" but just you being more annoying. - look. it works.
(ken laughs) - (clears throat) you invite me here just to wound me, don't you? i'm gonna interview everyone
like this from now on. ken, what do you think about this? - [ken] this is the closest
my boss has ever been to me. - there's a wide range
of new asus zenbooks, but one of the things that
jumped out to me most, first of all is that oled is on almost every single device here, but also there's some
really interesting stuff that they're doing on the internal. so this is specifically
the zenbook pro 16x. very high end, you can see. you've got a bunch of
creator focused stuff, but what i actually wanna talk about is what's on the inside. so this is the motherboard
of last year's model. you can see that you've
got the graphics card here, or your gpu and you've
got your cpu and your ram. so they've got a little measurement which it's basically 60
by 50 millimeters, right? which is what you have for your ram. you have everything. it's a small package. but look at this. so this is the supernova som, and essentially what
you've got here is your cpu and your ram all on one package. now that's really cool because essentially it really shrinks the actual area. it's similar to another type of device that you could also have your memory and cpu all together (clears throat), we won't talk about that, but what it gives you is
more room on the motherboard. so you can see right
here we've got our gpu and that gives more room
for the vrm, for the memory. so it's not only just
about cooling these things, but it's about having the physical space on the motherboard to take
advantage of more power and more performance, and having that as one individual unit is really, really neat. it doesn't seem like something you would ever know on the outside, but having this stuff on
the inside of your device can actually make a big difference. i'm fired up. i'm excited. i haven't slept in 27 hours. - [ken] you're zen? - no. i'm not zen at all (laughs). oled is a big theme of a
lot of the devices here and none more so than the 14x. not only does it have that
120 hertz 2.8k display, but also has a really interesting coating. so i opened up a little bit here. you'll see that the back of
it is actually ceramic coated, so it's a little bit of a different feel and it's actually a much
more eco-friendly finish, but it definitely gives
it a interesting vibe. - like.
- i did... yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. a little bit of that. you can...
just a little bit of that. so a lot of fun goodies here, but one of the devices that i've never been able to try is this. this is the expertbook b9, specifically the new
oled model, the b9 403. i'm not gonna touch it, 'cause this laptop, i've always known it for one very specific reason. it is one of the absolute lightest laptops in the world made out of magnesium, and even though now it's got
a slightly larger display, and it's got a little bit more performance with an extra cooling fan, it still weighs less than one kilo. i've wanted to touch one
of these for three years. as long as you guys have been making them. i've never actually done it before. (laughs) it's two fingers. feel that. - [ken] oh, whoa, okay (giggles). - dude, that is ridiculous. if you are making laptops,
that are thin and light and you say you can't put ports, this laptop weighs almost nothing. we've got a full size
hdmi, two thunderbolts. we've got... did you
put mini hdmi on this? - [sasha] it is a mini hdmi plug, but it's actually for ethernet. - oh, wait, there's also a usb-a. you've got all this on a
laptop that's this thin and this light? man, no one has an excuse. be better. as i walk through the booth
to give you the best example of what asus has to offer, there's one device that
has jumped out to me in a way i was not expecting. this is the chromebook vibe cx34 flip. now, i was immediately drawn to this because the color scheme
i think is really cool. so this is a gaming chromebook. we've talked about this
before on the channel, but essentially what you've
got is a 144 hertz panel, actually good specs, so not only do you have
a touchscreen (laughs), i definitely touched it hoping
it was touchscreen (laughs), but you also have proper specs. you've got yourself wi-fi 6e which is important for cloud gaming. the other thing that i
actually like these devices for isn't necessarily just for gaming, right? chromebooks and gaming, while you can obviously
do cloud gaming on it, what i like about it, is they also are just really good laptops. you've got solid specs, really
good wi-fi, terrific screen, and i love this colorway. the white, the orange
accents, the 14 inch size, i wish i would've done my
30 days with this chromebook instead of the other one i picked. i heard you like wi-fi. how about some wi-fi 7? look, i'm intimidated being
in the same room as this one. i'm not gonna lie. look at the size of this thing. now it's got itself actually
proper specs in here. you can be running vpns on at the same time as you've got a ridiculous level of bandwidth. - [matt] that router is
more powerful than my pc. - (laughs) man, you
need a new pc (laughs). hey wait, whoa, whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, ken? ken?
- what? - [austin] what are
you... where's the camera? you're still speeding? you're trying to move stuff outta the way. did you realize what this is? this is a pci gen 5.0 ssd. you almost put this... you were getting this
outta the way of the shot. i literally know nothing
more than the fact that i've got this little piece of paper, but this is a pci gen 5.0 ssd. what's the speed on this? 13? 13 gigabytes per, 13
gigabytes per, 13 gigabytes? this might be one of the
world's fastest ssds, and you were about to get it outta the way 'cause it was in the
the middle of your shot. - [ken] yeah. it was in
the way of the cool xbox. - 13.5 gigabytes per second? something i wasn't expecting
is rog to bring out an xbox controller. so they have both the
raikiri and raikiri pro, and these jump into a little bit more of the pro controller space. so you can see this is the pro. so i'm gonna fire it up. it not only has an oled, you also have some very nice sticks, but on top of that, this
is the wireless version. so there's also a wired version which you can see is already
plugged in and connected and you've got some actual
rgb on it and whatnot, but i will say about both of these is that they feel high quality in a way that a lot of third party
controller generally don't. the build quality is there
and while the standard model which is wired, is a little
bit lightweight in my opinion, but as soon as you go over
to the wireless version, which will support bluetooth,
2.4 as well as usb-c, but you look at the way that
you've got your trigger stops, you've also got some really nice programmable buttons on the back. i've actually never tried something that has them quite in this orientation. i'm really excited to see it because you don't see a
lot of really high quality third party xbox controllers. generally you've got the elite controller and there's a couple of others, but usually you wanna go
with the elite controller, and i actually would say this might be worth considering over the elite, especially because you've got that oled. you got your profile, you got exactly how it's connected and everything. - [ken] it's pretty roggers, dude. - if you say roggers one more time... i heard that you had a new g14. - yes.
- is this true? - yes. it is. - can i try it? - of course. - excellent. - how does this sound?
- okay. - up to an rtx 4090. - 4090?
- with 125 watt tgp. - you're putting a 4090?
- yes. - in a 14 inch laptop?
- yes. - is that a good idea?
- yes. (austin laughs)
absolutely. - some of the things you'll
find on the entire range of rog 2023 laptops include
the nebula displays, which is gonna give you
500 nits of brightness, even down to the 13 inch displays, you're also getting advanced optimus. pretty much the entire line up this year has been upgraded in one way or another. why, hello. didn't see you there. i was just admiring this
tiny little gaming pc. so you know what they
say about small things? they're always better.
personal experience. this is the rog g22ch. it has an incredibly tiny chassis and yet they've got this thing loaded up. you can water cool this?
- yeah. - where?
- you can have a radiator at the top.
- oh, neat. the reason i bring this up is because this is
currently running a demo of one of the most absurdly fast gaming monitors i've ever seen. so this, it's 144 hertz. you know, if you are an old school gamer, you've got gray hair,
you're playing at 144 hertz, pff, no, no, no. all the cool kids are rocking 540 hertz. so this is the swift pro pg248gp. it has a 1080p full hd 540 hertz monitor. sorry to say you're not
gonna be able to see this on a youtube video, but 144 hertz. very, very smooth. (camera clicks)
- all right, what's that? - oh! ken, you're so smart. so ken literally just took
a photo of the displays. you can actually see the difference. the 144 is doing some ghosting. whereas the 500 essentially is not, and that's almost entirely down to the shutter speed
of this camera i bet. i'm gonna be honest with
you, i've in the past been a little bit skeptical of being able to see that much
more beyond like 120, 144. i'm gonna stare at this for a second and i'm gonna tell you if i
can tell it's not perfect. it's not even close. this is very smooth if i
didn't know any better. this is perfect. there's no way my eyes
can see more than 540. i'll be here in three years and i'll be like, "a thousand hertz?" - [ken] that's a lot of hertz. - it's gonna gigahert.
- oh god. - get it? 'cause it's a thousand?
- yeah, yeah, yeah. that was nice.
- proud of that one. oh no, megahert. no! megahert not gigahert. i ruined my joke! asus will definitely kick me out.