- sitting on these train tracks is a quarter million dollar lamborghini. and barreling down at it right now is a massive train. but before the impact, i'm
giving this lamborghini to blake. - thank you. - and on top of sending the train, i'm also gonna have these eight soldiers shoot 10,000 bullets at your lamborghini. - that's the scariest
thing i've ever seen. - yeah, it's gonna be fun. - and you have exactly 24 hours
to build whatever you want to protect your lambo from the bullets. the timer starts now. - okay, first line of defense, i'm thinking a wall of
cinder blocks, after that some shipping containers
filled with refrigerators and then basically just a wall of cars to block those bullets. - do you think
all of this is enough to stop 10,000 bullets? - i think it is, jimmy. - okay, but so
far nothing's there. you should get to building. - so blake immediately
drove to three stores where i gave him my credit card and he literally spent
$78,000 on supplies. and since i don't wanna bore
you with all that, let's skip to the part where
everything was delivered. this first round of supplies
are starting to show up. - oh my god, i can't believe
i bought all this stuff. and this isn't even everything, man. - he's got a water truck. some of his junk cars came in. he's got a conex crate over here. how did he get this much
stuff? this is crazy. don't worry about the guys
with the machine guns. just pretend they're not there. yeah, i don't even know what they're doing there, honestly. - we're five hours in and
this storage container is about to be the first line of defense against 10,000 bullets. - alright, that's probably
good. that's probably good. do you think that shipping container's gonna stop any bullets? - absolutely not. - so as of now, he's screwed. - yeah, it's not looking good for him. - oh gosh. it's been about six hours. are
you happy with your progress? - i'm very happy.
- you sure? - it wasn't until this thing got down, but now that it's down,
dude, i feel really good. - i asked him if this
would stop the bullets and they said no. and once blake realized
he had to go all out, he works not only through the night this way, mr. railroad ties. - nice, nice. yes. - really nice. really nice. - but even into the next morning, upgrading his defense- - dude, he's stuffing the
storage container with a van and a giant tube! - and once i saw it put together, i was honestly pretty impressed. run me through what you built. - so i built a whole
bunch of concrete in the front and the tallest part of the
wall is right in the center to block the crow's nest machine guns 'cause those things are big and scary. - i got all my cars in storage containers and a bunch of water. - and if you come right over here, you'll see his lamborghini
tucked away amongst everything. - there it is. nice and cozy. - do you think all of
this will stop the bullets? - yeah, i do. i think you have a 50% chance of survival. - that's the best odds i've had yet. - and before i have
them shoot 10,000 rounds, come with me to the lamborghini. not only are you competing
for this lamborghini, but for a hundred grand as well. - what?
- yes sir. - yeah, that's pretty cool, huh? - this will be enough to cover
the insurance. 24 hours is up! eight scary men, 10,000 bullets- - versus everything
that blake has built... - are you ready? - just get it over with. i'm freaking out. - we're locked and loaded.
ready to fire on you, jimmy. - sir, fire at will.
- roger that. - standby! fire! - oh!
- oh my god! - they are unloading on his fortress. - oh my god! this is crazy! - they're actually ripping through the cinder blocks now. - oh man. oh god. - oh, blake's walls
are crumbling right now! and what we haven't told
blake is these guns are only the first of four phases we've designed to destroy this lamborghini, or should i say whatever
remains after this? - they just brought up the lmg. - oh, whoa! - oh, it's melting! - no! cinder blocks are falling! - ah! - all it takes is
one bullet to penetrate and it's going in his lambo. - oh my god! - these are the last bullets. - ten thousand! - all clear? let's go. please be safe. please be safe. how is it?! - she's clean, baby! - whoo! 10,000 rounds and
not one connection baby. - there's no bullet holes
in your lamborghini. and if you don't already
know who blake is, he's actually a contestant
from our previous two videos. but today he's back for a third and final attempt to win the grand prize. - are you ready for phase two? - yes. - see that giant crane coming? - that big yellow oil rig looking thing? - that is phase two. that crane is going to lift
your car up a hundred feet and then in 24 hours drop it. and you have to catch it
without it being destroyed. - seriously? - yeah. alright, bring it over here! and while we prepared the
world's first 100 foot lamborghini free fall... - there goes your lamborghini, blake! blake began to strategize on
how he was going to catch it. - i have no idea what i'm gonna do. - chandler, come over here. - yes, i'm here. - how would you break its fall? - so you get all the pillows in the city. step two, get all the
mattresses, next, get a blanket. - chandler, you're just
making a giant bed. - then a warm glass of milk... - all right, stop. you're not helping. blake, work your magic. - i'm screwed. - alright guys, i got some
good news and bad news. we passed day one with flying colors. the bad news is the
lamborghini is airborne. okay? so anyone got any ideas? i mean, yeah, hit me,
like what do we think? - the bouncy castles.
- bouncy castles. that that's actually not that bad. just because...that's
not bad at all really. - and after being inspired by the construction worker's wisdom, blake had decided on his master plan. - i would like to move the
conexes in like a square, right here with the x in the middle. and that way i can just fill
the square up with a bunch of air mattresses, pillows, bubble wrap, and on top it all off with
a bunch of bouncy castles. just the biggest problem right
now is i have no material. everything that i bought
is hard, concrete or metal. and nothing that i bought
i can use for day two. so, i have absolutely nothing. - and so blake sent his
crew to buy every pillow and air mattress in the city. and even though he was
incredibly sleep deprived, he got to work. - i'm already at the stage
where it's like, "wait, why am i doing this again?" oh yeah, that's right. i'm in
a challenge for a lamborghini that's floating in the sky right now. - by the time his
materials had arrived, blake had been awake for over 24 hours and was in desperate need of sleep. - i'm gonna try to get some sleep 'cause i'm exhausted and
it's four in the morning. - and with how exhausted blake was, he ended up sleeping for
way longer than he planned. blake! is he serious? - what is this? he got mattresses, pillows, and blankets. but he's missing the warm milk. - yeah, that's the key to everything. - where is blake? - he's asleep. i heard. - no, he is not. - by the time blake got on site, it was already super late in the day. - that's blake's truck pulling up. alright, we need to get to work. come on! - alright, let's just
see what this looks like. oh, that bouncy house works as a big box. so i'm thinking maybe we put
that thing in the middle now and then we start blowing it up. - only four and a half hours remain and it's not looking good for blake. i don't think he has
more than a 10% chance of catching a lamborghini. - and even if he does,
there's no shot he's stopping that train later on. - start filling up the side so
that way it's high over here, takes away this wall. - so with only a
couple of hours remaining, blake did all that he could
by filling the rest of his pit with cardboard boxes and bubble wrap. - it's coming down to the wire. chandler, how much time is left? - one hour. - blake is screwed. - i have a little bit of bubble wrap left. i think i'm just gonna
get raised on this thing and just wrap my baby
up in this bubble wrap and i'm good to go. - that's definitely gonna help. - blake spent what little
time he had remaining on this crane, failing at
trying to bubble wrap his car. - it's just not gonna work. - you know what time it is? - what? - time to drop the car.
let's drop this by boy. the failed bubble wrap
makes it look majestic. blake, do you think your
lamborghini will survive? - i'm positive, jimmy. - he is more certain than me. - i'm positive about this one. i bought every air mattress at walmart. if this won't catch it,
i don't know what will. i did everything i can. - here's a feastables bar, blake. - ah, thank you mr. - that way even if you lose the car, at least you have some good chocolate. it's available at walmart. be
sure to go try our new bar. i'm so curious what you think. but anyway, you have three
bouncy castles, 150 mattresses, how many pillows?
- 150. - 150 pillows and 2,000 cardboard boxes! will it break the lamborghini's fall? - yes. yes. - that's two yeses.
- okay. - 24 hours of work, down
to this, no pun intended. - 3, 2, 1. drop the lamborghini! here we go! outta my way! - that did not sound good. - please be okay.
please be okay. please be okay. please be okay. - alright. he's moving the
conex crate out the way. - there's no way you caught that lambo. - get these boxes outta the way! - whoa!
- what? - we're about to find out
how damaged this car is. - the lights work. - ooh, the lights work. - yeah. this princess castle might have saved this entire car. - moment of truth. you might've been the
first person in history to catch a lamborghini- - if it turns on. - alright, here we go. here we
go. here we go. whoa, it works! i can't believe it! yay! that's what i'm talking
about! she's alive! - everything looks good, minus
a little crack in the bumper, which we found out via official appraiser. this was only going to reduce the price of blake's lamborghini by... - probably 10 grand. - thank you so much.
thanks for the good news. - right now's the perfect time
to mention that phase three is flaming cars. - for blake's next challenge we're bringing back his biggest nightmare. we have recreated the
flaming cars challenge that costed blake everything last time. - wow, that's a low blow. - but seeing that
he's done this before, we're gonna up the
stakes by dropping twice as many cars as last time. - i'll see you tomorrow.
- i got a lot to prove. redemption day! - blake spent the rest
of the night disassembling his defense for phase two. and after a good night
of sleep, he was ready to begin his defense for phase three. - it's eight in the morning. just woke up. we got a
lot of work to do today. so let's get started. - here's the day three plan. i'm gonna cut the bottom
out of a shipping container. i'm gonna drop it right on the car. next i'm gonna take two more containers and i'm gonna lead them up coming to a point right above the car. - and most importantly,
nothing flammable this time. - do you think that will deflect a car? - yes sir. - oh, i thought you were
gonna say no. blake then asked his crew to
remove every piece of wood that was in the container because that's what ended
his challenge last time. he then had them cut out
the bottom of the container that would surround the lamborghini. - the storage container
could put a lot of damage. - completely crush it?
- yeah. - it can? - i mean, yeah, that
thing weighs a whole lot. - and with that
being done, blake just needs to lower the container
carefully over the lamborghini without damaging it. - one scratch can
cost some thousands of dollars. you're good just like that? - it is so close
to scraping the car. - watch your fingers.
we're coming down! - yes! yes! - i cannot believe that! - next we're gonna
bring these containers together to form a "v". - what if the car gets caught in there? - yeah, that's, that can't happen, dude. that's why we're putting
this pointy thing at the top. - do you think that will
actually deflect our car? - a hundred percent. - 20 minutes remain and then
we see if that lamborghini perishes just like his 500 grand. and as usual, blake
utilized every last second. 3, 2, 1. not quite sure what
that dirt accomplished. time is up.
- no! - let's see if unlike last
time, you survive phase three. - redemption! - blake, you lost $500,000 from
this exact challenge. how are you feeling? - i feel pretty confident. - i think the viewers
wanna know one thing: did you put wood inside
of there like last time? - a little bit. no, i'm just kidding.
there's no wood in there. it was one of the biggest mistakes i've ever made in my life. - moment of truth. come on in. three shipping containers. a bunch of dirt, concrete, a weird like, pointed roof thing. versus 10 flaming cars! are you ready? - let's go dude. - light it on fire! - will blake be
one step closer to going home with the new lamborghini filled with a hundred thousand
dollars or be eliminated and go home with nothing? - we're about to find out. 3, 2, 1. drop it! - oh! - oh, oh! - oh. you did not want that. - i feel like that's exactly
what he didn't want to happen. oh no. still feeling good? - not as good. - yeah, this is giving me some flashbacks. - it's giving you some flashbacks. - alright, ready for the next one? - let's do it. let's do it. - drop it. - oh my god, the roof looks
like it's already buckling. - and just in case blake
loses the flaming cars like last time, i'm gonna take this moment and tell you about this amazing new phone. what you're currently watching on is the new samsung galaxy s24 ultra. this phone can record slow-mo in 4k. the camera on this is crazy. we're like 200 feet
away and it's nighttime. and look at that; crystal clear. - ho ho ho ho!
- and go ahead and drop it. - oh! - oh, that hurt to watch. it also has a ton of new features with galaxy ai, like photo assist. - remember the last
challenge when the bumper got cracked on the lambo? you can just circle it like this and then all you do is you
hit that eraser button. and just like that, the bumper is fixed. - now i have a new car. - for the picture you do - whenever you're ready. this phone also has
circle to search google, which makes finding
information incredibly easy. it would've helped blake
a lot in the last video to learn about the flammability
of wooden railroad ties. all he needed to do was
long press the home button, highlight the railroad ties and
ask, "is this flammable?" - as you can see, railroad
ties are flammable. - you would've learned
the answer instantly. could have just told you. i was genuinely impressed by this phone and i think you will be too. so go to samsung.com, click
the link in the description or scan this qr code to
check it out right now and let's drop the next car. - we dropped car after car, and with each one we could tell blake was getting more nervous,
but we also noticed that all of the impacts were starting to damage the crate itself. - your crate on the bottom is bowing. - at this point,
the container protecting the lambo was being crushed by the weight and heat of the cars. - i thought about this every day since the last time i saw this. - and now it's
time for the final car! - yes! - oh no! - bro, it's gotta be
a thousand degrees in there! this car's probably melting right now. - we got the fire extinguisher. - somehow he's running so
fast. be careful, blake. - i'm coming. - how is it? - it's okay. it's okay! yes! you like that? - if one more car was dropped, this crate would've collapsed. you stopped 10,000 bullets.
- easy. - you caught a car out of mid air. you've now deflected ten flaming cars. - now its time for phase four. - bring on the train. - the timer has officially started. - i gotta go. - good luck on phase four. - god speed. - what is he even running at? - blake knew that the train was going to be the most deadly attack yet, so he wasted no time in getting started. - i think the best way to
stop a train is to derail it. that's what i've tried to build here. all these railroad ties are tucked snug, and all of these are
gonna go under the train. the train's gonna hit 'em like that. and if i do that a hundred more times, i don't see the train just
blowing past all that. the railroad ties lost me
the challenge last video. this time they'll save me. i just need two inches
off the track and i win. - two inches is a lot though. - my man. and then once i have all this done, i can just put concrete on top. i think that's gonna work,
man. i think that's gonna work. - blake worked
with his crew throughout the entire night and when i
showed up the next morning, it was obvious that this
challenge had taken a toll on him. what's up, jimbo? - what happened to your voice? - i'm like dying out here. - as you guys know, he lost
$250,000 in this video. he lost half a million
dollars in this video. i think blake is sick and tired of losing. he has an army going super hard. they're currently stacking the cars that we dropped on phase
three on the train tracks. but time was still ticking down. and in order to stop this
train and take his lambo home, blake began adding a lot more objects to the tracks, like shipping
containers, mattresses to cushion the impact... - blake's worked so hard.
i'm now on his team. - and water tanks. - blake really seems to
know what he's doing. too bad, there's only 11 minutes left. at this point, blake
did everything he could to finish his build before time ran out, and it was actually
starting to look impressive. - this is it.
- three... - the final stretch, - two, one.
- last line of defense. - time's up. stop. turn it off. turn it off. time is officially up! - oh my god. - from phase one
shipping containers, phase two's mattresses, and even phase
three's burning cars. blake, you somehow used all the resources from the previous phases. - let's see if you're
driving home in a lamborghini or if i'm dropping you off at your house. - bring that train on, man. bring it on. - before we ram everything,
we need to back the train up. we're gonna go really far back. that way the train can
pick up a lot of speed before it hits everything.
sounds like a good idea? - no, that sounds awful. - be honest, blake. do you think your lamborghini will survive? - god, i hope so, jimmy. - and of course we had to
put the feastables logo on the train. it's the best chocolate on earth. do yourself a favor and
try the new formula, but for now, it's time
for the biggest moment of blake's life. let's see if he wins a lamborghini. blake, any last words? - give it all you got. - send the train. here it comes. - oh my god. oh my god. oh my god. - it's coming! - it's gonna speed up
until it hits 35 miles an hour right before impact. - dude, it is going quick! - it's just gonna
derail. it's just gonna derail. - here she comes! let's see if it was all worth it! - oh, wait, wait, wait! - blake, it derailed!
- wait, i think it stopped! - oh my god! - blake, i've never
seen someone this happy! - oh wow, you derailed it! - oh my god. oh my god. i did it! oh! oh my god! - this is your new lamborghini, blake! not only did he win the lamborghini, but he also got all this money! - yes! - congrats. - i did it! - you wanna know the best
way to end this video, blake? - what? - by them going to walmart and
buying feastables right now. it's the best tasty
chocolate on the planet. third time's the charm.
see you guys later! - yes!