in an older video, i looked at how the 
republic of china - taiwan - started tsmc. it has been a few years since. i 
recently watched that video and   cringed. i think it is time to 
try and tell this story again. today, we will again look at the origins 
of taiwan's semiconductor makers out in its   silicon valley of hsinchu. a place perhaps more 
befitting of the name today than the original. ## a troubled economy in the 1970s, taiwan faced new 
political and economic challenges. in 1971, the republic of china lost its 
seat in the united nations, replaced by   its hated rival the people's republic of 
china. soon thereafter in september 1972,   taiwan broke official diplomatic relations 
with japan, one of its critical allies. then came the oil crisis in 1973, which 
struck taiwan's economy. growth - at   the time heavily dependent on plastics 
and heavy industry - fell drastically.   it opened the government's eyes to needed changes. taiwan's electronics industry was then 
its second largest exporter. but that   industry mostly consisted of electronics assembly 
operations - essentially low value manual work. the first such factory was built by general 
instrument in 1966. then followed by philips   and texas instruments. a few local 
entrepreneurs entered the business too,   founding companies like orient semiconductor 
and lingsen precision industries. but on the whole, taiwan did not have much in 
terms of semiconductor engineering knowledge.   one notable exception was national chiao tung 
university or nctu (??????) out in hsinchu,   which started taiwan's first 
semiconductor lab in 1964. hsinchu's nctu was founded in 1957 with 
the help of alumni from the former chiao   tung university in the city of shanghai. that 
university is now shanghai jiao tong university. nctu was and is still known for recruiting 
chinese-american professors from the united   states to teach. it was a great way to infuse 
leading knowledge from abroad into young students. unfortunately at the time, many 
taiwanese educated in electrical   engineering went abroad to do their work. taiwan at the time did not have a strong 
industrial base in semiconductors. so   the best job an ee graduate could get was 
making home appliances or other components. nctu has since merged with national 
yang ming university and is now the   awkwardly-named national yang ming 
chiao tung university or nycu. it is   one of hsinchu's two big universities, the 
other being national tsing hua university.   nycu's semiconductor research center 
is now the nano facility center. ## a computer industry at the start, taiwan's policy 
goals were not semiconductors,   but rather computers and consumer electronics. in 1965, the vice minister of the ministry of 
communications walter fei received a suggestion   from a long-time rca researcher named pan 
wen-yuan (???) to fund a series of forums. scholars and industry leaders came to 
these forums from abroad to talk about   technological developments to professors, 
students, and engineers in taiwan. many   speakers came from companies like bell labs and 
ibm. they did not divulge trade secrets but did   share their excitement about the developing 
semiconductor technology industry. by 1970,   it was clear that semiconductors had a big 
role to play in electronics of all types. in the same decade, republic of china premier 
chiang ching-kuo - son of chiang kai-shek and   later to be president - kicked off his ten major 
construction projects. after this, chiang began   thinking about the next big economic development 
project. he went to his advisors for suggestions. at this time, power in taiwan was 
consolidated in a small number of   ministers with common university ties. 
they regularly met in breakfast shops,   talking about the great potential of advancing 
semiconductor technology in computers. while eating together at the "little xin xin" 
(???) breakfast shop, fei and other ministers   in the ministry of communications drew up 
plans to start an electronics research lab. the vision for this lab at the time was to build 
a consumer electronics industry using versatile   and low cost integrated circuits. these chips 
would be designed and manufactured in taiwan. ## getting started in 1973, the minister of economic 
affairs sun yun-suan (???) set up   the industrial technology 
research institute or itri. its original intent was to consolidate three 
other industrial research institutes - the   chemistry institute, the metal 
institute and mining institute. itri later found a mission to acquire, 
introduce and transfer new technologies   to taiwan's private industry. the lab 
envisioned by fei and the other members   of the ministry of communications 
would eventually be placed there. on september 1st, 1974, the electronics industrial 
research organization or erso (??????) became   itri's fourth lab. the name emphasized that 
the end industrial goal was not semiconductors,   but rather electronics products 
like computers and minicomputers. ## selecting cmos in order to get an ic industry, 
you need to learn and acquire the   technology first. but there are so 
many types. which one? to decide,   the government founded the technical 
advisory committee or tac in 1974. the committee was staffed with chinese nationals 
working for american companies like ibm or   bell labs - led by the aforementioned dr. pan 
wen-yuan. many had attended princeton university. the committee selected complementary metal oxide 
semiconductors, or cmos. this is a departure from   most american semiconductor producers, which made 
bipolar junction transistors or nmos transistors. cmos was then already known and sometimes used 
in the technologies for specific industries,   but had a reputation for being tricky to 
work with. several tac members who worked   at ibm were skeptical that it could be 
done. so tac selecting it was risky. but tac focused on the technology's low power 
consumption and potential suitability for   consumer electronics products. this again was 
their north star - this focus on eventually   building taiwanese consumer electronics. while ics 
were important to this, it was not the end goal. ## choosing rca key to taiwan's semiconductor learning efforts 
was a technology transfer agreement that erso   struck with rca for their 7/7.5 micron - sources 
vary on the exact number - cmos technology. 1974 and 1975 were down years 
for the semiconductor industry.   many american semiconductor companies found 
themselves in difficult financial straits,   so they were willing to teach what 
they knew for the right price. so there were plenty of bidders willing 
to do the transfer. but which was the   right one? some of the eager bidders 
like texas instruments did not offer   cmos. so they were out. rca on the 
other hand had been a cmos pioneer. the 7/7.5 micron cmos technology that 
rca would transfer over was not very   advanced. the leading edge node in the united 
states at the time was around 2 to 3 microns. but tac and erso did not focus on how 
advanced the technology was. rather,   they focused on how complete the information 
was being transferred over. they wanted to   know everything involved. so one of the major 
requests in the contract was that the vendor must   also train 10 semiconductor designers. this 
weeded out almost all of the seven bidders. so in the end, the government chose rca 
because they were already a major investor   in taiwan with a tv factory there, had a 
good reputation, had the right technology,   and - most importantly - were willing 
to teach the most of what they knew. ## preparing for the transfer rca originally wanted $7.5 
million for the contract,   but in the end accepted just $3 
million after some negotiating down. in order to consider the technology transfer 
to be complete, erso would build and run a   demonstration plant in taiwan, producing a 
real product designed in taiwan. only when   the yield reached a certain number 
would the job be considered done. in may 1976, taiwan sent about 30-40 
individuals to rca's plant for 6-12 months.   the selected people were well-educated. 
almost everyone had a bachelor's degree,   but many had masters and phds. many also had 
training at nctu's semiconductor laboratory. individuals were divided into one 
of three groups - each responsible   for learning one part of the 
industrial production process.   the first team learned cooperation and 
semiconductor design at rca headquarters. a second team would learn manufacturing, fab and 
quality control at rca's sites in findlay, ohio   and west palm beach, florida. and finally a third 
team covered procurement and equipment testing. rca's staff were very good teachers. they used 
a "big brother little brother" method. the   staff would show the taiwanese "little 
brother" what to do right on the line,   and then leave them alone - 
often during the night shifts. ## at rca the rca factory was unionized. so 
the taiwanese engineers needed the   union's permission to work on 
the line, which took a month   to negotiate for. the taiwanese saw 
the depth of the union's involvement. one memorable union rule was that desks can be 
moved, but an experiment table cannot. another   required there be three people to change 
a light bulb - one to hold the ladder,   one to change the bulb, and another to supervise. dr. yang ding-yuan, who prepared the team to 
go to rca, told them to record everything that   they possibly could even if they thought it 
was trivial at the time. every item down to   the toilet paper and cleaning materials in the 
factory was copied down and stored for later. ## the demo factory in 1977, itri started building the first 
3-inch wafer demonstration factory. the   group supervising the construction 
stayed at rca for a shorter time   than the others before returning 
to taiwan to oversee the build. this factory would be a complete copy of the 
original rca fab right down to purchasing the   same equipment from suppliers. for instance, an 
applicon cad system for integrated circuit design. rca took any deviations from 
the contract very seriously.   when the taiwanese wanted to swap out 
rca's ion implanter for a newer one,   rca resisted - saying that any deviation 
would not be their responsibility. there were a few things that 
rca did not have. most notably,   the ability to produce photomasks - the 
templates containing the chip designs. erso   had to find an alternative source of masks for 
their first product - a chip for a high-altitude   military propaganda balloon. they found an 
overseas chinese who sourced it for them. erso leaned heavily on consultants to 
plug in the gaps in their knowledge.   the rj siegel company was hired to design 
the clean room. a former rca supervisor   was brought on for additional color. the 
demo fab's final cost was about $9 million. one of the things the erso team focused on 
learning from rca was yield improvement. this   means maintaining very strong control over gas, 
water, pressure, and dust. equipment required   the operator's judgement, so performance 
often depended on the specific operator. rca's contract guaranteed a yield of 17%. 
the demo fab's yields started off at 70% and   then reached 81% by december - surpassing 
the original rca factory's performance. semiconductor pioneer robert tsao 
later attributed this to newer   equipment like the aforementioned 
ion implanter and better workers. many were frankly overqualified 
for what they were doing in the   factory and went on to great things 
in taiwan's semiconductor industry. and taiwan itself was already an industrial 
manufacturing powerhouse. per the us embassy,   in 1975 17% of the world's television sets were 
made in taiwan. its shipyards, auto plants,   and electronics factories were world class. 
this helped with the move into semiconductors. minister sun yun-suan later said that 
the rca project had been taiwan's only   successful comprehensive learning project. 
this is because the government was not   satisfied with a simple in-and-out turnkey 
solution. it wanted the transfer to be deep,   comprehensive, and to allow for advancement. the demo fab's success led to a pie 
chart being drawn up showing that its   80% yields correlated to a net profit rate 
of over 21% - then a very high number for   a taiwanese manufacturer. the ministry 
of economic affairs saw this pie chart,   and decided that it needed 
to be a commercial operation. ## spinning out umc itri's intention had always been to transfer 
what it acquired to private industry. so much   of taiwan's economy was state-owned at the 
time and they didn't want to add to it. the   big question was how to do it. transfer it 
to an existing company? start a new company? no existing private company wanted to run the fab. 
so in late 1979, itri set up a preparatory office   for a new company - united microelectronics 
("umc"). umc would receive a second factory   that itri built running an upgraded 3 
micron process on larger 6-inch wafers. itri also invested millions to introduce 
computer simulation programs for ic design.   they twisted various taiwanese companies 
to invest a small amount into umc,   giving them all a small stake in the project. itri even selected the products that umc 
would sell. they transferred chip design   ip for ten products including those for 
telephones, toys, timers, calculators,   and watches. one chip played a 
happy birthday melody for greeting   cards. these were items that taiwan's 
electronic industry specialized in. founded in 1980, umc officially 
began operations in 1982. after   some initial struggle, umc grew to be a 
profitable, growing business producing   chips like telephone dialers exported to the 
united states market after at&t's breakup. ultimately, the fact that umc survived and 
succeeded mattered more for the taiwanese   semiconductor industry than how it was 
founded. after two previous high-profile   failures - fine products microelectronics and 
taiwan microdevices corporation - umc proved   that taiwan can compete in ics and paved 
the way for bigger things down the line. ## hsinchu
umc had been one of the first occupants of the hsinchu science park (??????), 
taiwan's first industrial science park. america's silicon valley began with a single 
company - shockley semiconductor laboratory in   palo alto - situated next to two universities. 
taiwan's silicon valley emulated this model. as minister without portfolio, dr. 
k.t. li (???) implemented the idea,   after successfully doing a first economic 
export zone down in kaohsiung and taichung.   they chose hsinchu to host the park because 
the region also had two major universities. nctu had been very small at 
the time. the government then   expected to soon retake the mainland, 
and restore jiao tong university. ergo,   this campus wasn't given much compared to 
hsinchu's other major university, nthu. when it became clear that retaking the 
mainland was not happening anytime soon,   nctu explored relocation. one particular 
plot in kaohsiung attracted them. worried, the hsinchu local council 
appealed to premier chiang ching-kuo   himself. chiang intervened by directing 
the military to transfer 2,000 hectares   of land for nctu's new campus - allowing 
hsinchu to keep its second university. later when touring the area, chiang's only comment   was not to cut down the trees in 
order to keep it more "park-like". the park opened in december 1980, and struggled 
to find occupants. this is where itri and erso   contributed by acquiring new technologies 
- either by importing from abroad or via   partnership with foreign companies a la 
imec - and spinning them off as startups. since its founding, itri has spun off over 162 
companies. umc and tsmc are the most famous,   of course. but others include vanguard 
international, phison electronics,   and syntek - one of the first design 
houses. as the park filled up,   overseas chinese returned home 
with ideas, founding design houses. design houses were basically designers with ideas 
for products, but no fab - fabless companies   before the term came about. but these design 
houses soon found no foundry capacity available to   produce their designs. left with no choice, they 
contracted with japanese semiconductor makers. this caught the attention of itri's 
then-chairman, some guy named morris chang. and so chang proposed an idea he 
had in mind for a company that   would produce anyone's chip 
designs. this became tsmc. ## conclusion let us somersault into the end. 
taiwan did not set out with the   intention to build a semiconductor 
industry and leave it at that. they wanted to build a complete 
it industry - computers, tools,   and instruments. ics would be at that industry's 
heart - but they were the means to the goal. not   the goal itself. and interestingly, i think 
that is a major reason why it did so well. to build expertise, the taiwanese closely 
studied and emulated the american silicon   valley model. and also extensively tapped 
the networks of chinese-americans who had   previously gone abroad to the us who 
then brought their learnings back home. two things before we end. first, 
this story neglects many of the   non-semiconductor businesses expanding 
at the time in hsinchu. this includes   computer companies like acer and 
its many spinoffs including benq,   asus and wistron. i will cover taiwan's 
computer industry success in a future video. and finally, i am struck by how 
young some of the head people   running the rca and itri projects were 
at the time. hu ding-hua (???) led the   whole technology transfer project at rca 
and he was only 33 years old at the time. and dr. yang ding-yuan, who selected and trained   the team who would go to rca. he 
just turned 28 years old in 1976. none of these people were doing it for the 
money. they could earn far more elsewhere.   they did it because they believed 
that there was a great opportunity in   front of them. they truly were pioneers, 
blazing a new journey for their nation.