[sfx: waves] i had this hotel room for a week. on
the sixth day i finished it. on the seventh day i rested; and on the seventh day i tried to write a letter to my secretary to tell her how i wanted 
this to be typed up and i couldn't finish a sentence! it was gone; the muse was gone.
i would start writing and all of a sudden i'd say "now what was i going to say?" it was flowing for six days and then it stopped and so i think it's an inspiration that
i can't just turn on and turn off, either well, i understand you've been considering all kinds of numbers under the sun and probably the greatest kind of numbers, because it includes everything, is the surreal numbers. the name actually came to me in the middle of the night; i have no idea... i have a vague recollection that i saw, at one point, a french paper that talked about
'nombres sur ordinaux' i don't pronounce it well, but sort of sur- ordinal numbers i've never been able to track down that
paper and i don't know if i heard about it before or after i thought of the name
"surreal" but you'll see that it's a great name after you understand
 what surreal numbers are. john conway invented the concept,
and his first description of it was "all numbers great and small" not only big and small, 
but *inside* and everything. so people know what the real numbers are,
and i call them surreal because there are infinitely many surreal numbers 
between any two real numbers. [off-camera] i thought the numbers between 
all the other numbers already existed, so...? -yes, that's what almost everybody 
thought except conway so i learned about it... i happened to be visiting calgary in
canada at the same day that john conway was up there, and we had lunch together and he had recently discovered this concept, which we're going
to describe. during our lunch he wrote out on a napkin all the rules of... a definition of surreal numbers.
i was enchanted by this idea. of course i had lots of other stuff to do, but i kept
the napkin--i took it home with me. the basic idea: you have a new way to describe all numbers: you build up all numbers starting from nothing, and
actually nothing is kind of the representation of 0. but then you can use 0 to describe
another number which turns out to be 1. and you can use 0 and 1 to make two other numbers, one of which is 2 and one of which is 1/2. and you can
continue creating more and more numbers. it's something like the creation of
a universe. here we're creating a universe of numbers. but the numbers that you get are always... the denominator is always 2 or 4 or 8 or 16 or something... you don't get everything... you'll
never get 1/3 throughout the first part of this process, but you keep on
creating numbers until you go to infinity. then a big bang occurs and all
of a sudden you get all the real numbers. the next day after that then you create
infinity plus 1 and infinity minus 1 you also have 1 over infinity which is
a number that's bigger than 0 but it's less than any positive real
number. that's why i started calling them surreal, because there's a number like 
pi plus one over infinity this is between pi and 
every real number that's greater than pi and also we keep on going and keep on creating, 
so at some point we get 1/2 of infinity, and we get square root of infinity,
and we get infinity to the infinity. all these numbers that we get
we can add, subtract, multiply, and divide them so it goes way beyond any kind of
numbers that people ever conceived of before [off-camera] these sound like tiny slivers that we're dropping into gaps that we didn't even know were there. -we got the tiny slivers and we also have
 the reciprocal, 1 over a tiny sliver, which is a gigantic thing, larger than we've ever... people ever thought of before. so
that's why conway called them "all numbers great and small"  one night in the
middle of the night i said, "hey, i bet why don't i call them surreal numbers?" but the
the main inspiration that i had was, i said "wait a minute, this is so cool, i think maybe i ought to 
write a book for high school students that would teach them what surreal
numbers are." there was a need for a book that shows how mathematical research is
done, and how you take some simple laws and create gigantic universes
 out of simple laws. and the process of discovering is
something that's usually not taught in schools. you just are taught the facts, 
but you don't get to see the thrill of developing these facts. i woke my wife up. we were on sabbatical
year in norway and i... well maybe i didn't wake her up till the
morning, but anyway i had the idea in the middle of night and i couldn't go to
sleep and i said "wait a minute, a book like this ought to be written."
i was already years behind on books that i'd promise to write, and i'm still
not done writing... that was 50 years ago but i told my wife, you know jill, i decided i have to write another
book, but it's only gonna take me a week. she said, well you know that's actually
kind of a nice idea... ...time in your life when you can do
this, here we are in sabbatical and so we worked it out that a few weeks later 
i would rent a hotel room and downtown oslo and spend a week writing
this book. she would come visit me a couple times that week, because we
always wondered what it would be like to have an affair in a hotel room! so that
was the plan, and it actually worked out so marvelously, it was probably the
greatest week of my life. i started out every morning having a big
norwegian breakfast. my hotel was very near where ibsen used
to live so i could get some of his vibes at breakfast. there were a group of 50 american
students and i could listen to what they were saying, because i had decided to
write this book in dialogue between two characters: alice and bill. might as well show you the book.
here's the book and you can see alice and bill here. 
my wife did the illustrations. [reading] how two ex-students turned on to pure mathematics and found total happiness if you look on the web you find out that
that there's a bimodal distribution of reader comments: there are those who are looking for
beautiful mathematics and those people are rating it at five, and then there are
people who are looking for a novel and and some cool sex scenes and things like
this, and they're reading in a zero and they're saying it's the stupidest thing
i ever did and "why would anybody waste his time?"
so it's a kind of a litmus test as to what you like oh by the way, a is alice and b is
bill, but there's one line here which is said by conway and i went and
visited john conway a few months later to try to make sure that i could quote him.
so in this particular part, he's... conway says "rubbish. wait until 
you get to infinite sets." alice says "what was that? did you hear something? it sounded like thunder." bill says "i'm afraid we'll be getting into the monsoon season pretty soon." [off-camera] is that the only line from conway? or is he here multiple times?
- i believe it's the only line that conway has in here. in the book, he's the creator and he's not only j.h. conway, but he's j. h. w. h. conway, which is an
allusion to the tetragrammaton, the hebrew name for god. and the characters
in the book discover two axioms on a stone tablet and also some markings on
the stone tablet: a surreal number consists of two parts and you indicate it
by brackets and a colon.  you have a bracket on the left.  to the left of the
colon your put some number and on the right, er... some set of numbers and on the right you
put some set of numbers, and then you create more numbers. so you start out
with this number which is 0 and if you put 0 on the left, you get a number which called
1 and if you put 0 on the right you get a number which is called minus 1.
and this stone that alice and bill find has these markings on it, but they have to
decode what it means for these markings to do. even though i have 
hardly any plot in this book the fact that i do refer to nature
and have a little story going on, meant that i was watching everything in the
world much more intensely. not only was i listening to what these
students said at breakfast but i'm also seeing the colors..., the leaves
 on the trees... everything outside there was more, too, because every
morning i was actually trying to create the theory myself. conway had told me the thing and i saved the napkin on which he
wrote it down, but i lost it, somehow, in the next month, so
i had to try to remember it and then i had to try to remember how did he
prove all these marvelous things that he had told me about during the lunch? and i
purposely didn't plan that in advance, but every day i would work on it and
then the mistakes that i would make, the characters in my story would make
those mistakes. but then eventually, you know, i got further
and further and was able to develop the theory. [off-camera] had conway not published it himself and he just...? -no, he had the report: "all numbers great and small" was his report. then he was writing this book on numbers and games that came out a few years later.
but at that point it was brand new [off-camera] if you are so much pleasure from this
form of writing, why don't you do it more often? -oh no, it's too scary. it's not sustainable! [laughing] i think you...  these are moments that
come once in a lifetime. but i think also there was... it wasn't
just me, there was something... the ideas were coming to me as if they were being
dictated, by some muse. the last thing at night, i'd turn out the light the next several sentences would flow
into my head. i couldn't sleep, so i'd turn on the light, i would write down those sentences,
 but they were coming so fast, i only had time to write the first letter of
every word, so i jotted that down, turn out the light, go to sleep. the next morning
i can figure out what i was going to say and continue. but if i had been doing
that all my life, i think i'd be dead long ago!  so the characters discovered
this rock and it's covered with hebrew writing that explains two rules, and
everything flows from two rules: the first rule is: every number
corresponds to two sets of previously created numbers and furthermore, there's a left set
and a right set nothing on the left is greater than or
equal to anything on the right that's the first rule. this makes a new
number. the second rule describes what does it mean to be greater
than or equal? so this is the number that we call 0,
there's nothing on the left and nothing on the right. here we put 0 on the left and nothing on
the right, and this is a number that we now call 1, but on the stone that alice and bill discover, 
it was indicated by a vertical line. and if we put 0 on
the right and nothing on the left then we get something that on the stone 
was indicated a by horizontal line. now this sort of day zero is when we got the
number 0. the next day we got the number 1, we'll call it day one.
on day two, now we can have a set of numbers, so we
can put 0 and 1 on the left and nothing on the right, for example. and this is
actually... turns out to be 2. or we could put 0 on the left and 1 on
the right this is the number that turns out... 
is going to be 1/2. but now, there was a classical definition of real
numbers by dedekind called dedekind cuts: you have a set of
rational numbers on the left and a set of rational numbers on the right. that
defines a cut between the two and that gives real numbers. 
so conway's genius was that... keep on going and allowing, besides
rational numbers, to allow any set of surreal numbers. after i get to a
point where 0 and 1... (let me put a comma here)
and a 1 and 2, let's call it, and you get all of these here, but nothing on the right, this is
infinity. then we find out what's infinity plus 1? and that turns
out... actually got an infinity here, ... these rules might have been invented
before dedekind's rules and that everybody for 100 years had learned about this in
school, and we'd considered that this is the way numbers are. then
physicists would have said that this is actually part of the real universe,
that these numbers aren't strange but that that these are basic. and people
probably would have discovered the real numbers as a special subset of
the surreal numbers. there's no reason for us to think that the universe obeys the
laws of real numbers. people used to think that the real
world had euclidean geometry, but now people know that space bends.
the patterns that are revealed here are as mind-boggling as anything in mathematics
and are far from being explored. every year more and more converts come along
and and we find people winning prizes because they've advanced 
the theory of surreal numbers. ...which is a subtle point... so, i'd lost a napkin but it turned out that the rule that
i gave in my first draft during those six days was not his rule actually, but
it was subtly different. here, for example, is chinese translation.
[conway] ...don't like thinking of my impending death, [pauses] and you know, 
i haven't got all that many years left... i don't quite know how many