- today, i'm building a
gaming pc from craigslist where ken's got wish to determine, can a broke setup beat a pro one? high tier rgb gaming pc. problem with this one though,
it was posted a month ago. that's probably not gonna be here anymore. - [jared] that probably got sold. - all right, so let's go
try to find some pc parts. so i have the lenovo store here. oh, it actually has a
little check mark too so i can see what's verified. but, there are a lot of refurbished, pc parts from this one vendor. i could just go like the really lazy route that austin usually goes, which is buy a corporate
prebuilt from like 10 years ago. - asus gaming slash office pc, 250 bucks. 1050ti by itself, i've been seeing on
craigslist for like 150, $175. so the fact that for just a
little bit more than that, i can get a full pc, is actually not bad. unfortunately, i have texted
this person like four times and they've not gotten back to me. - okay. so they have asrock motherboards. it's verified as authentic brand products. so, unlike austin who probably doesn't
look for that check mark, i'll probably get this stuff if i buy it from these vendors. this is a ninth gen i7. wow, okay, so we got options. i mean, expensive, but we got options. - this i think is a good spot to start. ryzen 3 is okay, 16 gigs of ram is nice, it already has an ssd, but if i can find a good gpu, i think this is probably a good move. - god forbid wish.. what the, (grunting) if that's real, i'm just buying this. so i have here a lenovo legion t7, core i9 10900k, 2080 super, $1,900. this vendor seems pretty legit. you know what? i'ma risk at all, with someone
else's hard earned money. - so, this is the card
i actually wanna do. the gtx 1070 limited edition quicksilver. this one is $260 for 1070. 260 bucks is not a cheap deal, but as far as everything
i've looked at on craigslist, i think this is my move. (whimsical music) got my sad starbucks. (austin sighs) surprise, surprise,
1070 guy was a no show. guess i'm back to square
one, which is great. luckily other people did actually respond, so i have a couple of other leads but they're all complete opposite end, of southern california. so, thumbs down. - all right, it arrives. wish actually followed through. let's go take a look. that, is an actual pc. oh, this thing is massive. yeah, judging by the fact that all of my peripherals are wrapped and there's like lenovo
startup guides in here, it's making me think that this is actually
refurbished by lenovo, not by the vendor that i
bought it from on wish. woohoo, look at that. i even like that the pain of glass has a little bit of film on it. it's like they reapplied some. so, this is a proper refurbish. cable management could
use a little bit of work, after all, aesthetics will be
coming into play a little bit. first impression is this
thing is looking pretty solid. and, i personally think
that i'm probably better out with this pc than austin is with whatever he got from craigslist. austin, not exactly a good negotiator. - so it is time for redemption my friends. it is time to get our hands on the pc hardware that we deserve. now i went last time by myself. so this time, we got the whole team. griffin, if they don't give me
a graphics card (censored) them up. (laughing) (beeping) the graphics card that was
promised is here, the gtx 1060, the pinnacle of modern technology. does that look like it's
been through a mild fire, and these screws for
some reason are rusty? yeah. did i pay a lot of money for it? look, i got a gpu, okay? success. we actually got some extra stuff, 'cause i don't think this
was in the listing, right? - [jared] no, no, no. he just kinda handed that to us. - here's what we really
came for, the actual pc. so let's actually crack
it open real quick. so i briefly looked at it, we didn't actually power it on, so hopefully when we get
back to the office, it works. - [jared] i mean, that
looks like a pretty, oh, it's even got a glass side panel. - well, so that's the thing. he actually packaged
this up really nicely. i almost feel like he built
this to sell it or something. but we've got dual channel memory, we've got a 256 gig ssd, 350 board. i mean, i actually think we
did totally okay on this. - [jared] for $350, i mean, that's not, the worst deal we've ever gotten. - no, definitely not. you know what? this is a lot lighter than i
thought it was going to be. you're about to witness something that few people have seen in life. - [jared] should we be
wearing masks for this? - yes. (austin laughing) (air whooshing) i'm not sure if it is a good or bad thing, that most of this is just not blowing off. - [jared] i was gonna say,
very little actually came off, and that worries me
more than it soothes me. - okay, so i'm gonna be real, i mean, this is 100% a mining card. this poor card, has been running
24/7, 100%, for years now. and he still sold it to us for basically what he bought it for. - [jared] yeah. - you know what, this
gpu just needs to work for like a few minutes. if it works for just a
little bit, then it's fine. jared, will you please do the honors of hitting the power button
for the very first time on our craigslist pc of, excellent good vibes. did you just dab? - i don't know what i'm doing. but, - [austin] okay. - it didn't work. is it? - ooh
- whoa. - [austin] that's rgb my friends. this angle, makes this pc look good. ken actually might not have the aesthetics completely on point. - i think, we might have won
this in about every category. you being good at games i can't call on, but we'll see how that turns out. - [austin] so, the gpu is, not spinning. this is, it just needs a minute. - [jared] concerning. - [austin] this is a problem. it's a very real problem right now. what's worse, getting ghosted, or spending money and
not getting something that you actually thought you're getting. - well, my past dating experiences says i'd rather be ghosted. - what?
- what? - [austin] so we put it on our test bench, just to really confirm. so look at the fan, trying
to like stutter to life. no, it's not even trying anymore. oh my god. oh, look at that, look at that. - yo, that's terrible. so, the real question is-- - [austin] what do we do now? - now what the hell do we do? - [austin] ken's coming tomorrow, with his fully assembled pc. we don't even have any
more craigslist options now at this point, we'd have
to start from scratch again. - just trying to find a guy
that was willing to do it in the same day was hard enough as it is, let alone trying to find a second one, that's gonna have a
card that's a good deal, that's nearby, like it's not gonna happen. - this is like top five
bad things ever on camera. - top 10 anime betrayals. - we'll be back, after we
decide what we're gonna do to rectify this disaster. - all right, so this, is
my pc that i got off wish. - wish.com, that was more
than like $100 whatever, and you actually received it. - somehow.
- first glance here, i cannot tell that this is
not a brand new computer. - [ken] i did all of my
homework and research. i checked on the seller. they're based in the us, they also sell on ebay and amazon. so the specs, is a core i9 10900k. - [matt] okay. - [ken] a 2080 super, 32 gigs of ram. also have a one terabyte hard
drive and one terabyte ssd. normally i don't like
bloatware or anything with these pre-builts, but, it comes with an overclocking tool. and so it's overclocked right now. - so this is a solid computer. how much did you pay for a
refurbished lenovo on wish? - a couple of bucks over two grand. - okay, in this market
that's not horrible. so i will immediately
just say looking at it, it looks way better,
just aesthetically to me, than austin's. - excuse me?
- you mean the party city machine? - [austin] excuse me. - this is the one time that you were supposed to
judge a book by its cover. - so, starting out with the pc. this was a freshly built, ryzen 3 3200 g. 16 gigs of 3000 megahertz
memory, a 256 gig ssd and a 1.5 terabyte hard drive. yes you heard me right friends. 1.5 terabytes. how much would you pay, for
what an amazing system this is, with, a, rgb headset? i know, i know, the accessories aren't
supposed to be included, but i'm an overachiever matt. - did this not come with a gpu? - did that come with a gpu? that was this whole separate excursion. - like 700. - $350. - okay. - price performance, big
part of the game here. the thing that was missing,
was a graphics card. i'm not gonna settle
for integrated graphics, hilarious and yet not possible. so, you'll see there's a
graphics card in there. - yeah. - i borrowed a 1050 ti from the office. - no way.
- no. - [ken] oh no, no, no, no. - if ken showed up without a pc, i definitely would not be like, oh yeah, you could just go borrow one of the one from the office. - well here, you know what my thing is, is that if my pc didn't show up, i was gonna try to do the wish claim to get my money back and just start over. - yeah, you can't do that in craigslist. - can you look up what
a 1050 ti is on ebay? - [jared] i got one
for 200, 160,'0, 190. - so i'll use the 290 one. - [ken] yes let's go. (ken laughing) - we're at about 800
bucks for your system. wait, okay. this is why we round up. - [ken] what a good sport. - i think it's time to open
up the benchmarks guys. - so what i'm gonna do is i'm gonna take his multi-core score, i'm gonna divide that by
the price of his computer, which was just, we're gonna call 2100. so, we get, 7.7, we'll round it up to two. - he's got like 10 times my score and i spent half as
much as him apparently. - multicore score, you got a 3651. so you paid what? 350? - 350 plus 190. - all right, i'm gonna give
you the benefit of the doubt, and i'm gonna say 540. - wait, i get back to my original thing? - maybe. you still lose, (ken laughing) and get a score of 6.76. obviously you want a higher score. - we have gpu benchmarks. oh, no. (ken laughing) same thing, all right? so, as you can see, i have plenty of
performance with my mouse. let's see who is the supreme victor, and who's the giant loser. - [austin] this is a big map, it's gonna take us a long time to finish. - [ken] you picked it. (gun bangs) okay. seems like you, well played down. well played already. (gun bangs) ah, this is very bad. ken, where'd you go? (gun bangs) oh, either. - [matt] if you can get a
single kill, i will consider. - i hear you. where are you?
where are you? where are you? wait, where? - [matt] if we just go ahead and-- - [austin] is that one settled? - there might be an l in craigslist but there's a w in wish.