- hey guys, this is austin. after years of outdated ipads,
there are now fresh models up and down the apple
store, which of course, begs the question, should
you buy an ipad in 2019? apple got a lot right
with the first gen ipad. the overall size and form
factor, well definitely evolved, they're still actually not that far away from the ipads that we have today. for example, look at battery life. back when the ipad first launched, it had a pretty impressive
10 hours on a charge. fast forward nearly 10 years
later and surprise, surprise, every single ipad you can buy today still has that exact same 10 hour rating. things got a lot thinner with the ipad 2, where basics we expect
such as cameras were added and it wasn't until the
third generation ipad that we got the much needed retina display which was far, far
better than what you had on the original 2 ipads. beyond that though,
there really wasn't a lot of evolution on the ipad
front, that is until 2012 with the introduction of the ipad mini. this shrunk things down to the form factor that believe it or not, we
basically still have today with the current ipad mini. there were quite a few updates
over the next few years including the introduction
of the ipad air. but the big news really
was the ipad pro in 2015. this brought for the first
time, a physical keyboard, a much larger 12.9 inch screen
as well as the introduction of the apple pencil for
the very first time. now the ipad lineup is
actually the broadest that it's ever been. you have options all the way
from $330 to an eye-wateringly expensive $1,900 for the maxed
out version of the ipad pro. first of all, we have the
ipad ipad, which is i guess, the best name for the
base model of the ipad. now sure, you lose out on
some of the high-end features, but only $330, this
really is my go to answer when most people ask, what's
the ipad i should go for? next up in the line is the
newly refreshed 2019 ipad mini. now for a while, this
was still being sold, but it was way, way out of date. now thankfully, while it hasn't
seen the biggest hardware update, it has seen a
major internal upgrade, which really does bring it
back up to that 2019 spec that you expect when you're
paying $400 for an ipad. at $500, there's the ipad air. now this is also refreshed for 2019. it has very similar
specs to that ipad mini. you can really think of this as an upgrade from the ipad ipad, sure it's
a little bit more expensive, but you're getting a better display. you're getting support for
things such as the smart keyboard and you do get those more modern specs. last, but definitely not
least, we have the big guy. the ipad pro, now available
in not only an 11 inch, but a 12.9 inch size. first of all, you get the best
displays on any ipad here. and there are a lot of
other major advantages. you've got the much better
apple pencil support. you've got usb-c, you've
got great speakers. really this is the top of the line, but it definitely costs
top of the line prices. it seems like a great
time to buy an ipad right? we've got brand new options
pretty much from top to bottom. but of course, the real question is why does the ipad still exist
and which one should you even consider buying here in 2019? let's start with the $330 ipad ipad. now we did an entire video all about this when it came out last
year, but as of right now, it doesn't look like it's going to see any kind of major update for 2019. that's not exactly a bad thing though. for most people, this is the
ipad that i actually recommend. and there are a lot of reasons for that. now because i wanted to have a little bit of a bigger scope to
this video, i sat down with a few people around
the office and i asked them how they used their own ipad ipads. ipad ipads. - so far i have not run
into any limitations with using the ipad, you know,
the lower end version of it. i feel like i'm not losing anything, but it's just if i had
an ipad pro, it would be, maybe i could have more capabilities. i haven't really lost anything. - i was using that to control
the audio for the setup. it's way easier to name
the files, the inputs, routing, everything like
that on the ipad app versus the touch style on the
actual audio recording device. we also use logic to do a backup recording so there's a logic app that i can control the thing from across the room. so most of the time, i use
that ipad for just light audio control in our studio. - i've been recently using the beat making program fl studio and a lot of the plugins, the playlist and different aspects of the program get really congested on the screen, so just
being able to drag and drop one of those things onto
the screen just so i have another thing to look at, it's
really helped me out a lot. so that's i'm mainly using it,
not as the main power driver, but to assist my macbook pro. - the basics are all here. the screen is decent,
although there is a screen gap which you find on those higher end models. and the hardware itself is very similar, as well as you do have
the exact same pencil and crayon support from the
mini as well as the air. performance really is the only downside. here you'll find the apple a10 processor with two gigs of ram, as
opposed to the apple a12 with three gigs of ram
on the higher end air as well as on the higher end mini. now it sounds like a
lot on paper, however, in reality, it's not a big deal. so even if you're trying to take your ipad and turn it into a laptop replacement, unless you're doing like hardcore gaming or a lot of very memory
intensive programs, the ipad ipad actually works totally fine. and especially if you're using
it as a content consumption device, which i assume most
people are doing when they're spending $330 on an ipad, it
really works completely fine. i think a lot of people get
way wound up in all the specs. and while it's nice to have
a more powerful device, this is still absolutely no slouch. this is actually a surprisingly
straightforward decision. if you're buying an ipad, you
should pick up the base model unless you need some of the
other higher end features. so sure, if you want a bigger
display or smaller display, the mini and the pro are both available. if you want the absolute best screen, you want the absolute
best keyboard experience, then you can consider upgrading. but for most people, the basic ipad ipad is absolutely the best move. for 330 bucks, it's actually
even pretty reasonably priced. - it's been almost four
years since the ipad mini has seen an update, but now in 2019, it's finally offered
with more modern specs. powered by the a12 bionic chip found in this generation's iphone xr and xs, the mini is definitely more
capable than it's ever been. but performance only tells half the story. unsurprisingly, form
factor and size is why you'd even consider the
mini in the first place. phones have gotten bigger,
this is the iphone xs max which is the same vertical
length as the ipad mini screen. but not only that, laptops
have gotten much more powerful and thinner and tablets
like the higher end ipad pro have not improved, but have also become more expensive and niche. this new ipad mini with
its updated specs sits right in the middle of all of that. and i think it's honestly the one that people should
consider buying the most. first, while it's not as heavy
hitting or fully featured as the flagship ipad pro,
you're not compromising much with the 2019 mini, it
runs that same full tablet iteration of ios, just scaled
down to a 7.9 inch screen. it has the same multitasking
with the same app management, and even has the same
home screen and dock. it's actually comical how
small and cramped it is at points, but still very useful. the ipad mini size also
makes it easier to hold and operate than larger ipads if you tend to move around a lot in your day. hey look, i move around a lot in the day. i move from my chair to my other chair. here in the office, when
we're going over video scripts before a shoot, having
something that i can easily take around with minimal thought
and even have it fit in my back pocket has become super handy. and if you grab the lte version
like i did for $130 more, having an always connected
tiny ipad just opens up tons of use cases which also
means i'll be more inclined to keep using it instead of
shoving it in my junk drawer after three weeks like every
other ipad that i've owned. i especially like that the
ipad mini is still small enough to type with your thumbs, it's
such a little usability thing that goes a longer way than i expected. but the real icing on the cake for me, is that it is only $70
more than that ipad ipad, but with updated specs and
a better looking screen. that to me is perfect,
especially if you're down with the size or even if you're not, but are willing to compromise. - the next step up the
ladder is the new ipad air. and well new might be
a slight exaggeration, because this is essentially
a mix of a bunch of different parts from
previous generation ipads. for example, the design
is almost identical to the 10.5 inch previous
generation ipad pro. now because of this,
even though the ipad pro, the ipad air and the ipad
ipad all have very similar form factors, they have
three different screen sizes. the ipad ipad is 9.7, this is 10.5 and the ipad pro is 11 inch. the only real difference here is just how big the bezels are. while the screen size
isn't a big difference, the panel itself is nicer
here than on the ipad ipad, mostly thanks being
laminated to the glass. and it does share the
exact same pencil support. so if you plug in a first
generation apple pencil, it will work just as well,
although while i guess this is working just as well. (laughing) what is a bigger deal
is the smart connector. now with this, you can use
the exact same keyboard from the 10.5 inch ipad
pro, and what this means is that it is very easy to have a fully wired keyboard on your ipad. now sure, there are
definitely bluetooth options. and realistically, they're
going to be a lot cheaper and give you more functionality. but i like how thin this is. i like the idea that
you don't have to worry about syncing, about
charging, anything like that. the only problem though, is that $160, this very much pushes the
ipad air into pro territory. and this kinda comes down to what you actually want
to do with your ipad. if you're just using it as a
content and consumption device, the software keyboard is totally fine. but for me, i actually want to
get some more real work done. so i'm sitting around
and i wanna do email, i wanna be able to write up documents, and a keyboard is
absolutely essential here. which really does mean that
this is not a negotiable thing when it comes to me using an ipad. so, it's great to have it,
but yeah, $160 is a lot for what's essentially a smart cover with kinda basic keyboard attached. inside, the air shares the
exact same apple a12 processor from the iphone xr, the ipad mini and it is plenty powerful
for a system like this. now sure, if you put it side
by side with the ipad ipad, it is more powerful,
but in real world use, you're not really going to
notice a massive difference. even that a10 still feels
very snappy by 2019 standards. but really, all of this comes down to what you want to do with your ipad. if it is that content
consumption device, right? the extra power is always nice,
i'm never going to complain about something that is too fast, but when you're considering that this is almost $200 more expensive,
you really need to be able to get something for that and the
specs are a big part of it. and if you're not really
using those specs, it kind of makes it a
little bit of a harder sell. and that kinda comes around to my big issue with the ipad air. it is a good ipad and in
vacuum, if i don't drop it, it is a solid choice,
but on the lower end, i actually do prefer ipad
ipad and the ipad mini, and on the higher end, the
ipad pro is tough to beat. at least if you have the budget for it. now when the first version came out, i tried to replace my laptop with it and well, it definitely
wasn't quite ready. fast forward a few years though, and things have come a long way. first of all, the hardware
on the ipad pro is excellent. now sure, if you try to
jerry rig everything in it, it might not survive, i've
been using this for six months and i've had very little
of any kind of reliability or durability issues, it still feels fine. just don't try to break it in half. the screen is also a decent
step up over lower end models. a bigger difference is
with the panel itself. so the ipad pro is the
only ios device right now that does have a promotion display, which means it does run
at a full 120 hertz. that's not something you can
really see on camera too much, but in person, it makes a big difference because it runs at
double the refresh rate. not only does content look a lot smoother, but importantly it all
feels so responsive. i mean sure, the ipads are quick, but the ipad pro is in another league. another advantage of going up to the ipad pro is the addition of face id. and nothing against touch id, it's still a great way of using a device, but face id in my opinion,
just works a lot smoother. the only other side of things is a little bit more complicated. so on one hand, the ipad
pro is the only ipad model that does not come with
the headphone jack. on the other side though, it
has by far, the best speakers. what surprised me most about the ipad pro is how much i like this
second generation pencil. now the first generation
pencil is still being used on pretty much all the other ipads, but honestly, this is
such a superior design. first of all, it attaches magnetically which makes a huge difference. the old one not only was round, but it also had a stupid
little charging cap, we had to plug it into the lightning port. it just didn't make any sense. i feel like this is such
a better way of doing it. just wirelessly charging it from the ipad. and because of that, i
don't have to really think about carrying it or anything,
i actually find myself properly using the pencil a lot more. and no, there isn't that
track pad or mouse support but with the pencil, i find
i can do a lot more precision stuff like selecting text a lot easier than using my fat fleshy human finger. is that a weird way of
describing my finger? now this is very much going
to depend on who you are and what tech you already
own, but i'm a big fan of the usb-c port on the ipad pro compared to lightning on the other ipads. it really does unlock a lot
more pro level features. one of which is just that
i can use the same charger to charge my computer, charge my phone, charge my ipad, that is a huge deal. i have having to carry around a ton of different chargers in my bag. now something i actually
do a fair bit is plug this into my lg usb-c monitor back at my house. now, it's a full 4k monitor
and it will mirror the display which is nice, but on top of that, it will charge the ipad at the same time. i do have a couple of
things such as a keyboard as well as a pair of speakers
connected to the monitor. so with that single cable, just
like i can with the laptop, i can get a lot more use out of the ipad. which brings us to ios. so i actually do really
like a lot of ios, right? i think the ipad would not be
the kind of tablet that it is if it was running say like, full macos. but that being said,
when you slap a pro badge and a $700 price tag on
this, there are a lot of expectations that i have
and ios is not too far off, but there's just enough things that really drive me crazy with it. - for the most part, i would
be able to replace a laptop completely with this if it wasn't for a few caveats with apps. something like the youtube creator app, which i use a thousand times a day. i don't get the full experience on it. which is something i do need. so things like uploading
captions to videos. uploading thumbnails,
they don't quite work as well as being on a dedicated computer with the full webpage. - who need final cut? that's it, that's literally
the only bottleneck i have with this thing, is that
it doesn't have final cut. and i'm assuming that if they
ever put final cut on here, final cut pro, they'd have
to introduce mouse support, either in the app or natively on the ipad. and if i could just connect,
like keep a magic track pad in my backpack and just
connect it to this bad boy, and use it like a laptop with final cut, i'd be so set. - but a lot of things
still don't quite work on the ipad or require a third party apps and it doesn't all quite talk together. i mean, would it be that
hard to just give me like a downloads folder
and couple of tools to move files around? i mean, that would go so
far to making the ipad a proper laptop replacement. now this is the kind of
stuff i can live with on the lower end ipads, you know, it's a much cheaper device. it's not quite geared
to replace your laptop, but on ipad pro, i expect more and it's not quite delivering just yet. and it's pretty much all software because the hardware is totally here. okay, we have made it. so the conclusion here really
is that this is a great time to buy an ipad, especially if the rumors of ios 13 being a major update are true. for most people, i really do think that the $330 ipad is your best bet. it has a nice size screen,
it's powerful enough and you do have the
ability to use accessories such as a bluetooth keyboard
or that apple pencil. now you would think that the ipad air is the default answer for most people, but realistically, i feel like it's in this weird middle ground. on one hand, you've got
the cheaper ipad ipad which basically does everything the same. and on the other hand, you
have the much more expensive ipad pro which generally
is a major step up. it is definitely not for everyone, but if you want to turn an
ipad from a content consumption device to something you can
actually get real work done on, the ipad pro is a legitimate step up. especially once they add a file manager or a better browser or file
extensions that totally work.