- does the xbox series x overheat? over the last few weeks of having this console here in the office that has been my number one
question that i have received. so why don't we take a closer look? so my setup involves a thermal camera. we also have a decibel meter, as well as a microphone on the console. and i wanna just find out exactly how loud it gets and how hot it gets. so i will give a disclaimer. while the embargo has now
lifted and i can talk about all of this kind of hardware stuff, as well as a few other things that we'll talk about in a minute, this is not final xbox series x hardware. this is not a retail
unit. this is a prototype. so technically, we may see
some slight differences between this and that final retail model, but at the very least, it
should give us a very good sense for what kind of performance
the xbox series x has or doesn't have. so now that the series x is on, it's going to start warming up. but essentially, what you should see is all of that heat being
exhausted out the top. (gentle upbeat music)
(gun blasting) so, right now, i am playing "gears 5". so this has been series x optimized. so we might play some xbox
one and 360 games later, but realistically, i don't think that's
going to tax the console in the same way that a game that is fully taking advantage of this hardware. so i've been playing for a
little over five minutes now, and the series x has gotten
warmer but not by a huge amount. the exhaust is sitting at somewhere around 45 degrees celsius. and the fan noise is, at
least from where i'm sitting, is pretty much nonexistent. but i'll be quiet and let
you see the decibel meter and actually hear exactly
how loud it is at the moment. (xbox series x fan whooshing) so i think it's clear
to say that the series x is not going to overheat in
a normal circumstance, right? i think that is pretty obvious. what i really wanna see is what happens when we
start to compromise that by putting it on its side or specifically, by enclosing it in a box. well, normally you would put it in like a cabinet or something, but we're just gonna put in a box and see what happens. (laughing) so, next up, i wanna put the
xbox series x on its side. now, i'm pretty confident that this will make next to no difference because while yes, heat
rises, generally speaking, i think all that heat is
being pushed out the side, and regardless, this thing
has feet on the side of it, so it's meant to be used
in this orientation. but let's play a little while with the xbox series x on its
side and see what happens. - [man] find his office. poke around. - [man] okay. we'll go. - so satisfying. everything
with this is so satisfying. (gentle upbeat music)
(gun blasting) - [ken] plus side, the temperatures
have not changed at all. - [austin] it hasn't changed at all? - [ken] 51. - i'm not massively surprised. like, it shouldn't really
get that much warmer. so if you were concerned
at all about the series x being on its side and overheating, don't. but i think where you may
have a little bit more concern is you have it in an enclosed space because right now the
series x is wide open it can get all the cool air it wants. but generally speaking, you're
probably gonna have this in something like a tv cabinet. so to simulate the tv cabinet,
we're putting it in a box. it's okay, we'll open one side of it. so what's our baseline, right now? - [ken] 52, 53. - 53. okay, so we're starting at 53. so a little warmer for sure. after about five minutes or
so of the series x in the box, the temperatures aren't too crazy but what i can hear is a lot more noise. so if i'm quiet for a second,
you can hear where it's at. (xbox series x fan whooshing) i wouldn't say it's particularly loud. and it's still not as loud as the pc that is sitting over
to my right-hand side, but now we're getting a little bit closer to that 45 decibels,
46 or so, on the meter. now temperature-wise,
what are we at right now? - [ken] oh, temperature's 56 - 56. so 56 degrees celsius. that seems to be roughly the point at which the series x
starts to ramp up that fan. i would say that if this
was underneath my tv and i'm sitting any more
than a couple feet away, i'm probably not going
to really notice it. but you do start to hear it in a way that you haven't before, which does go to show that
the ability for the series x to get access to cool air
makes a big difference. i will just say, anecdotally, while you can obviously
see the temperature, if i put my hand near it, it's toasty. it's definitely kicking
out some real heat. i think, so far, it's okay.
i'm not super worried. but what if we take this one step farther? so, look, we've all been there, right? you're just playing
your xbox, no big deal, and your little brother comes by and tosses a playstation
game right on top. normally, that wouldn't be a problem if you're using, say, an xbox one, but because this is really
the exhaust of the console it's gonna mean to all of that hot air that is coming out of the
xbox has only one outlet, this little tiny port right here which i can already tell feels very warm. so we'll play for a few
minutes and see what happens. (upbeat music) okay, that's cool. (laughing) okay, so in the time it
took to clear this stage, what do we have going on over here? it looks like we're sitting
at about 54 degrees, so it's certainly not sort of choking. whoa, you can feel the heat
coming off of that though. i mean, all of that exhaust, we're pretty much entirely covered up, all that heat is starting
to kinda leak out here. 'cause i guess technically the
game doesn't fully cover it. that being said, it is still not dying. i'm not losing any performance. the temperatures are, while quite warm, not totally a disaster. and that fan noise, if
this is as loud as it gets? (xbox series x fan whooshing) i mean, you hear it. it's still quieter than the
pc that's sitting right here, that has 20 more fans in it. i'm gonna say i'm impressed. i actually thought that this would be a much more difficult challenge because you've gotta consider that this series x is
pulling some serious power. but there's a whole lot more to the series x than just that pure temperature. (logo whooshing) why, hello there! and welcome to austin's xbox
series x testing dungeon. so i have a few games
that i can play right now and i can give you guys a
little interface walkthrough. so the first thing i wanna do is "dirt 5". so right now, just so you're aware, i'm recording this gameplay
at 4k at 60 frames per second. however, the series x is
capable of going up to 4k 120, and "dirt 5" is one of the
few games, at least so far, that does support that resolution. the downside, though, is that
if i go into my video options, right now it's on image quality, i can switch it over to frame rate, but that does not unlock 120 because i don't have a 120 setup. and i wish that there
was some way on youtube for me to actually show that properly. instead, you'll have to kind
of look at the 60 fps gameplay and (chuckles) imagine. so the thing with "dirt 5" is that this is a game which
we'll also be launching on last-gen consoles, as well as pc. however, this version has been optimized for the xbox series x.
so as you can see the graphics are impressive on "dirt". now, again, this is not
a completely native game, so because it is sharing some components with the xbox one version
and the pc version, i assume that later games in the cycle will be able to take better
advantage of the hardware. but that being said, it does look good. now, there are a couple
of small technical issues in the build that i am playing right now. but this is very early beta stuff. the hardware isn't finished,
software's not finished, games not finished. you know, the standard sort of stuff. for what it is good enough is for at least a little bit of a look at how well the series x will perform. so one of the things that i think is also worth talking
about is the latency, or rather the lack thereof. so there are a few optimizations with the xbox series x to improve latency. so one of which is the
controller is able to timestamp and send those frames to the xbox series x to better sync things up. supposedly that helps out a little bit. so one thing to definitely keep
in mind with this generation is that while some games will
look better no matter what, to get the best advantage of it you are gonna need a
good set up around it. so that means something like a
tv which can support 120 fps. something that will support,
ideally, auto low-latency mode, so you have things like freesync
or variable refresh rate. and that's not something that
most people have right now. but this is early in the
console generation, right? you can imagine that, as time goes on, there already tvs which are
starting to come down in price that will support a lot of these features. but, importantly, as that
becomes more and more mainstream you'll be able to get better
and better performance out of the hardware that you
already have with the console. and come on, really? really, really, really? argh! i was so close. i was so close. (laughing) you know what, why don't
i actually give you a little preview of the interface. so things look very
similar to on the xbox one, which shouldn't be a surprise because the xbox series
x in a lot of ways, is an evolution of the xbox one. so when you first get your
xbox series x or series s, one of the very first things you should do is jump into the settings
and tune it for your display. so it's in general under
tv and display options. so there are a few things you should do. so if you open up the 4k tv details, you'll see that right now it
says that i can't do a lot. that's purely because i'm recording. if i have this directly
plugged into my tv, a lot of the stuff would light up. but what you can do is you can, first of all,
pick your resolution. so if you have the option of
a higher refresh rate display you will also be able to
pick that up from 60 to 120. right now it's grayed out
because it can't do that. and you also have your video modes. so a lot of this stuff will be automatically turned on by default, but if you can enable stuff
like auto low latency mode, which will allow the xbox
and tv to communicate so that it will automatically pick the best settings for you
to get into game mode, as well as stuff like
variable refresh rate, which is essentially freesync,
will allow the tv to refresh at the same time as the xbox, therefore giving you a smoother experience with fewer dropped frames,
and specifically fewer torn frames. so something else i think
is worth talking about with the xbox series x is the storage. so if i hop into my system
and take a look at my storage, you'll see that right
now i have 800 gigs free, right out of the box. so i filled up about half of that with the various different games that i've been playing with. but you also have the
storage expansion module. now, of course, this is
an optional accessory for the series s or the series x. and what does is give
you the same performance of that internal ssd. and that is important because
if you plan on installing xbox series s and series
x games to your console you will need to install it
onto one of these two devices. either internal ssd or
the expansion module. now, you can still
connect a usb hard drive. however, that will be limited to copying files back and forth and specifically running older games. so you can run an xbox one game or 360 or an original xbox
game off of a usb hard drive. but if you want to play a optimized series x or series s game, you'll need to install it into
one of these two locations. now, i will say that the
one terabyte expansion card does drop down to 920 gigs when you actually have it hooked up. and the actual storage on the series x is also significantly below one terabyte. but, obviously, you have
things like the formatting, you have the operating system,
and you also have a buffer for games to essentially hibernate. so that's what the quick
resume is all about. one example of the speed
of these next-gen consoles is just simply in loading times. so i've showed a little bit in
the backwards compatibility, but with "dirt 5", a game which is completely
optimized for the series x, let me show you just how quick
it is to jump into a game. so unlike something like
the xbox one or the ps4, which could take 30 seconds, 45 seconds, a minute, or more based on
which game you're playing, because we have that
cpu as well as the ssd, this feels very much like a high-end pc when it
comes to loading games. so it's one of those things that, like, once you get used to it, it
doesn't seem like a big deal, but as soon as you step back
down to an older console you're like, "oh my, god! what
was i thinking?" (chuckles) so what have we learned today? well, to put the title in context, the xbox series x doesn't seem to have any major overheating issue. it does a good job in
any normal circumstance. and of course, as dust and time attacks it we'll have to wait and
see, but so far so good. on a lot of the other fronts,
it's also looking promising. so while the ui might not
be a huge step forward, there's still a lot of new stuff that we're going to be waiting
on over the next few months as more games come out and
as we get a more fine look at the final version of the series x. so make sure to subscribe. check out some of our other
xbox and playstation videos. until next time, i will catch you whenever we decide to move on to the video where i'm right
in front of the camera and very uncomfortably close.