another classic puzzle if it's all right? this time 
i want your gut reaction and i encourage viewers   to note their gut reaction before you ponder 
further. it's one of those classic ones where you   should get gut reaction, park it, and then analyse 
whether it has any sense to it. and this time   i'm going to ask you a probability question. i'd 
like you to answer this question on the scale of   impossible (i.e. probability zero) up to certain; and 
i don't really care about a number. if you can give   me a number i'll be impressed. the 50/50 is there; 
let's call this very unlikely, unlikely, likely,  very likely - i think you get the idea. so that's 
your scale to use, and here comes the question:   what are the chances that there are two people in 
london with the same number of hairs on their head? remember you don't need to give me a 
number i want somewhere on this scale. (brady: very close to zero.)
- okay so i'm gonna put a brady 
bh like down here, is that- is that fair? or do   you want to be closer to zero than that?
- (no i- i'd maybe go even a shade closer but that'll do for now.)   we're talking ballparks only, but the idea 
of actually giving me a percentage answer seems   nonsense as well i think. so my claim is - which 
i will try and answer in the remainder of the   video - is that i know exactly where on the scale 
the answer is and i know to full precision,   full precision - like i can nail the absolute 
full decimal expansion if you wanted me to.   and i'm just checking the viewers have got your 
gut reactions; you may disagree with brady, you may   agree, maybe you disagree by like a fraction 
of percent - who knows? so the reason i'm asking   this question is that there's a little bit of 
background i want to explain. in the uk there's   a qualification you can take post-16, if you're 
not doing an a-level in maths you can do something called   core maths now, it's a relatively recent thing. it's 
the matter of everyday life and it's really useful   for students to take who are not going to do an a-level
 in maths but still want to keep some basic   numeracy, understand headlines. it sounds like a 
sales pitch a little bit because i think more   people should do it but the point is part of that 
course is estimation skills. like you get examined   how well you can estimate things and there's 
these classic types of questions called fermi   questions or fermi estimations where- the story 
is that enrico fermi, the physicist, estimated   this size of an atomic blast. he didn't have any 
other way of measuring it so he dropped a piece   of paper, noticed how far the blast wind blew it, 
and got the size of the blast within a factor of   2. detail didn't matter but the size estimate was 
a really useful skill and actually knowing roughly   how many things occur; maybe i don't know like the 
number of people in london or maybe the hairs on   your head, those questions are tied up with this. 
so we're going to use a bit of fermi estimation to   solve this once and for all.
- (it wasn't a trick question, you're not counting people with zero) (hairs on their head are you?)
- well if we did what's your answer? 
- (well then then it's 1 because there) (are two people with zero, but i'm not counting that.) 
- brady, inexplicably that's at the other end of the   scale from your guess, but let's say to be fair to 
you that we are not counting that and maybe we should   rephrase the question. most people are shouting at 
the screen probably i think "what about bald people?"  so if we said what are the chances of two hairy 
people - whatever that means - having the same   number of hair follicles on their head whatever we 
could have hair follicles- whatever. we're going to   do some estimation in typical core maths style. how 
many hairs are on our heads? like are we talking   10 million? are we talking 10?
- (i'm regretting my 
decision now. there aren't that many hairs on a head)    well so i had a thought about how to give 
people advice; estimating stuff is hard which is   incidentally why they use these sort of questions 
as interview questions quite often, like how many   tennis balls can you fit on a jumbo jet i've 
heard was a google interview question. no   one cares about the answer they care about how you 
think about it. so maybe you come up with your own   ways of thinking about hairs on your head; i had 
an idea which is: i had a 30 centimeter ruler in   my drawer, a nice bendy one, and i can sort of like- 
well it's it's roughly- my hair is roughly like 30   centimeters by 30 centimeters. i mean i know my 
hair is a source of contention among numberphile viewers - there's been incidences on camera 
where i had questionable hair and possibly still   do - but we're leaving that aside. 
- (you think i haven't just put them on screen? that's cute.) i talked myself into that didn't i? new 
numberphile video, new haircut - that's my motto.   and i think actually if you drill down, the size of 
my head is kind of within grasp of centimeters and   if you think about like a one centimeter squared 
patch - no close-ups right - i think we can get an   order of magnitude. so i think there's probably 
more than 10 hairs in a centimeter squared, like   it like feels like sparse. probably not as many 
as a thousand, so let's pick a hundred. i'm going   to start writing some stuff down. 100 hairs per 
centimeter squared, and then roughly let's get   the size of my head. so when- i've already waved the 
rule around, that's 30 centimeters by 30 centimeters   approximately 900 centimeters squared? 
times 100 - 90,000 hairs. how do you feel about that? (loads of people in london have the same 
number of hairs on their head.)
- are you wanting to change   your answer? i'm glad we are already acknowledging 
that there is doubt creeping into your earlier gut   reaction. so let's just settle it once and for all;
uh i don't even trust my estimation but if we went   to - let's call it 100,000 - i don't think 
many people are going to be in order of magnitude   out from that. incidentally i did do some research 
on this and apparently redhead people have   fewer hairs? quality not quantity apparently is 
the name. but roughly people are estimating between   50,00 and 150,000 so i'm 
really glad our estimate is pretty good.  how many people in london, brady?
- (what is it? is it like 12 million or 8 million?
- and anyone who was shouting the   screen earlier when i asked the question would be 
like "it depends what you define as london" right? greater london, the city of london - however you 
really do it i think we're in millions, agreed?   like even if you go small - and let's 
say greater london - i reckon about 8 million? but again i don't actually care because i'm 
just going to say 8 million. you will see that   the actual detail doesn't really matter. 
now you've already upgraded your estimate,  but let's think about why. i'm going to do what 
they call in the trade a piece of common sense,   which is the name for a mathematical theorem 
which everyone thinks is really profound and   everyone else is like - well that's just obvious. but 
this is called the pigeonhole principle and if you   have heard of it well done, you might think it's 
common sense. if you haven't heard of it it's time   you heard of it. so if there are 9 pigeon holes 
in this little grid here and i had 8 pigeons,   they could arrange themselves all through and 
there'd be a gap, they've got one pigeonhole each.   they could arrange themselves to double up, there's 
no rules against it if they're particularly cozy,   but they don't have to. my point is if i have 9 
pigeons they could have a pigeonhole each. they   might double up but they don't have to; whereas 
if i have 10 pigeons, 2 pigeons are sharing.   at least. this is known as common sense to most 
people, and other people call it the pigeonhole   principle, and it's a surprisingly profound useful 
result in very different situations. if you've   got more things than options then the people 
choosing options are going to double up. and i   think- by the velocity of your nodding you have 
seen how this might apply. let's imagine all the   people in london are choosing an amount of hairs; 
even if they're making up a number, right, they   just- i have 963 hairs and i have 900,000 whatever. 
- (they want to be unique.)
- they're trying to be but   if 8 million people try it and there's only 
roughly 100,000 or even 200,000   or even 300,000 options two of them are 
going to duplicate. there's nothing we can do about   it. i'm sorry to break it to you, not only we're 
not down here we are precisely there. it's 100% and   i said i'd do the full decimal expansion if you 
want it but it gets pretty dull pretty quickly.   so i like this question because it feels like 
our gut reaction goes wrong quickly and i think   it's because we're not very good at estimating 
without training - incidentally why core maths is   a good thing to study. and it's nice to actually 
do an exam where you're rewarded in this common   sense way of thinking.
- (i studied maths ben and i got it wrong terribly.)
- i think- i think mathematicians   particularly- you've done your share of maths, maybe 
more than the majority of people in the world,   are actually less good at the basic common sense 
estimating than other people. and people who have   to do a lot of this every day are better at it, it 
just takes practice. and actually studying maths   doesn't involve lots of it which is why there's an 
interesting qualification to talk about and a good   skill to have whatever qualifications you study. 
the art of estimation is important and in this   case what's nice is the probability question not 
only has a definitive answer; all you need is rough   ballpark estimates to nail it down completely. it 
turns out that the pigeonhole principle has lots   of important applications if you want to look at 
the possibility of things duplicating, if you make   up a random password with a certain key space and 
someone else makes it - like what are the chances   of duplication occurring? suddenly you realise it's 
the same sort of question and that's important. and   there are links to another cliche problem called 
the birthday paradox, like what are the chances two   people share a birthday? it's not quite the same 
but if you have enough people in that question, if   you have 366 people in a room, you guarantee that 
two of them share a birthday. same idea, pigeonhole   principle means at least one is going to double 
up. that's it, that's the hairy problem for you   and i think it's a good advert for estimating 
skills and this qualification called core maths. so continuing the theme of probability - have a 
look at this, it's a new subscription box from   our episode sponsor mel science. in the past 
i've shown you some of their cool chemistry   sets but they're also getting into mathematics 
and this one has me intrigued - how to never lose.   as always, everything your needs in the box. 
it's well-explained, really hands-on. i'm making my very   own bean machine here. and have a look at this: 
lovely. and some very nice normal distributions.   where was this when i was a kid? i guess it doesn't 
matter i can play with it now that i'm a slightly   bigger kid. this snazzy machine comes with handy 
lessons, other probability games - it's really   interactive which is always the best way to learn 
and have some fun along the way. you can get 50%   off your first purchase with mel science by the 
way. check out the link and details in the video   description or you can just go to melscience.com, 
have a look, see everything, it's a great website. look at that, i could watch that all day. brady, what are the chances of 2 people in london 
having exactly the same number of hairs on their head? (100% because of the pigeonhole principle.)
- well this video is really short. there we go.