formula 1 is, by many accounts, the pinnacle of 
car racing.  f1 cars are among the fastest in the world, particularly around the tight corners of the various paved tracks across the globe.   drivers can experience accelerations of 4 to 5 lateral 
gs around each lap. that's tough on a human body,   but think about the car! 5 times gravity 
is about 50 meters per second... per second,   and an f1 car weighs 800 kilograms (or 
1800 pounds). if you do a little quick   recreational math, that comes out to a force 
between the car and the track of more than 4   tons. and all that force is transferred through 
four little contact patches below the tires. traction is one of the most important parts 
of f1 racing and the biggest limitation of   how fast the cars can go. cornering and braking 
at such extreme speeds requires a lot of force,   and all of it has to come from the 
friction where the rubber meets the   road. pirelli put thousands of hours of testing 
and simulations into the current design. nearly   a hundred prototypes were whittled down to 
8 compounds: two wet tires and six slicks   of various levels of hardness that offer teams a 
balance between grip and durability during a race. and yet, when you look at another of 
the most extreme vehicles on earth   you see something completely different. a 
single modern diesel freight locomotive can   deliver upwards of 50 tons of forward force 
(called tractive effort) into the rails,   but it's somehow able to do that through the 
tiny contact patches between two smooth and   rigid surfaces. it's just slick on slick. it 
seems impossible, but it turns out there's a   lot of engineering between those steel 
wheels and steel rails. and i've set up   a couple of demonstrations in the garage to 
show how this works. i'm grady, and this is   practical engineering. in today's episode, we're 
talking about why locomotives don't need tires. in a previous episode of this series on railway 
engineering, i talked about how hard it is to   pull a train based on the various aspects 
of grade, speed, and curves. i even tried to   pull a train car myself. the whole point of 
locomotives is to overcome that resistance,   to take all the force required to pull the train 
and deliver it to the tracks to keep the whole   thing rolling. most modern freight locomotives 
use a diesel-electric drive. the engine powers   a generator, which powers electric traction 
motors that drive the wheels. there are a lot   of benefits to this arrangement, including not 
needing a super complicated gearbox to couple   the engine and wheels. but, even with electric 
traction motors, locomotives are still limited   by the power rating of those motors, and 
power is the product of force and velocity.   so if you graph the speed of a locomotive 
against the force it can exert on a train,   you get this inverse relationship. but, 
this isn't quite right. of course, there   are physical and mechanical limits on how fast 
a train can go, so the graph gets cut off there,   but there's another limitation that governs 
tractive effort on the slow side. even if the   motors could generate more force at slow speeds 
(and they usually can), the friction between the   rails and wheels limits how much of that force 
can be mobilized (called the adhesion limit). the graph makes it clear why this is 
such a major challenge for a railroad:   you can't even use the full power of the engine 
because you're limited by the friction at the   wheels. it's why dragsters do a burnout 
before the race: to warm up the tires   for more friction. i was reading this 
federal railroad administration report,   and i love that it called friction the "last 
frontier" of vehicle/track interaction; it's just   so important to nearly every aspect of railway 
engineering. the lack of friction is really the   reason railways work in the first place: it means 
the rolling resistance of enormous loads can be   overcome by relatively tiny locomotives. but, 
of course, some friction is necessary so that   trains can accelerate and brake without slipping 
and sliding on the rails. there are alternatives,   like the cog railways that carry trains up steep 
mountains, but most freight and passenger trains   use simple "adhesion" for traction; just the 
steel-on-steel friction and nothing else. the   area that's physically touching between a 
wheel and rail, called the contact patch,   is roughly the size of a us dime: maybe 2 to 
3 square centimeters or half of a square inch.   imagine gluing a dime to the wall and then hanging 
two average sized cars from it. that's a loose   approximation of the traction force below each 
wheel of a locomotive; it's a lot of friction! incredibly, friction really boils down to 
two numbers, one that's simple (weight, or   more generally, the normal force between the two 
surfaces), and a coefficient that's a little more   complicated. let me show you what i mean.  i have 
a little demonstration set up here in the garage.  it's just a sled attached to a spring scale. i can 
add a weight to the sled, and then slide different   materials underneath.  the reading on the scale is 
the kinetic friction between the materials. even  if the weight stays the same, the force changes 
because every material interacts differently   with the steel sled, and this can get super 
complicated: asperity interlocking, cold welding,   modified adhesion theory, interfacial layers, 
et cetera. i'm not going to get into all that,   but it's important to engineers who think about 
these problems. all that complexity gets boiled   down into a single, empirical value called the 
coefficient of friction. double the coefficient;   double the friction. and the same is true of the 
normal force. if i double the weight on the sled,   i get roughly double the reading on the scale 
for each of the materials i pulled underneath it. in some ways, it really is that straightforward. 
you have two knobs to manage tractive effort:   the weight of the locomotive and the friction 
coefficient. but you don't always have a lot of   control over that second knob. environmental 
contaminants like oil, grease, rust, rain,   and leaves lower the coefficient of friction, 
making it harder to keep the wheels stuck to the   track. so you kind of just have the one knob to 
turn. very generally, the math looks like this:   you look at the steepest section of track where 
the highest tractive effort is required and divide   that force by the "dispatchable adhesion," a 
complicated-sounding term which is really just   the friction coefficient that you can count 
on for the specific locomotive and operating   conditions. maybe it's 30% for a modern locomotive 
on dry rail or'% for an older model on a frosty   winter morning. now you have the total weight 
needed to develop that tractive effort. for   longer and heavier trains, you can't just use 
a single massive locomotive, because there are   limits to the weight you can put on a single 
wheel before the tracks fail or you damage a   bridge. that's why many large freight trains use 
two, three, four, or more locomotives together. but, that friction coefficient isn't set 
in stone. you do have some control there.   even since the days of steam locomotives, 
sandboxes have been used to drop sand on the   tracks to increase the friction between 
wheels and rails. if you look closely,   you can sometimes see the pipes that deliver sand 
in front of the wheels. some railways use air,   water jets, chemical mixtures, and even lasers 
to clean the rails, carry away moisture,   or just generally increase control over wheel/rail 
friction. and there's another way to turn that   knob that's a little tricky to understand, 
because there's really not a hard line between   a wheel sticking to a rail through friction and a 
wheel sliding on it from not enough. actually, all   locomotive wheels under traction exist somewhere 
in between the two! let me show you what i mean. even though both locomotive wheels and rails 
are made from hardened steel, that doesn't   mean they're infinitely stiff. everything deforms 
to some extent. but, it would be pretty tough to   show the deformation of a steel-on-steel surface 
under hundreds of thousands of pounds in a garage   demonstration, so i have the next best thing: a 
rug and a circular brush that spins on a shaft.   this brush simulates a locomotive wheel, and 
right now, it can spin freely. so, when i pull   the rug underneath it, nothing unexpected 
happens. there's essentially no traction   here. the force between the brush and the rug 
(representing a wheel on a rail) is negligible,   and there's no slip. the brush turns at the same 
rate as the rug moves. but i can change that. i have a little homemade shaft brake made 
from a camera clamp, and i can tighten the   clamp to essentially lock up the rotation of the 
brush. now when i pull the rug under the wheel,   it's noticeably more difficult. the brush is 
applying a strong traction force to the surface,   and also, it's completely slipping. the 
relative movement between the wheel and   the rail is basically infinite, since 
the wheel isn't moving at all. again,   maybe this isn't too surprising of a 
result. what's interesting, i think,   is what happens in between these two conditions. 
if i loosen the clamp so that the brush can   rotate with some resistance and pull the 
rug through again, watch what happens. the bristles deform as the brush rolls 
along. they're applying a traction force,   even as the brush rolls. if you look closely, 
the bristles stick to the rug at the front,   but at a point within the contact area, they 
lose that connection to the rug and slip   backwards. and this is exactly what happens 
to locomotive wheels as well. the surface   layer of the wheel is stretched forward by the 
rail, but toward the back of the contact area,   there's not enough adhesion, and they separate 
as the elastic stress is released. the stick   and the slip happen simultaneously. what's 
fascinating about this behavior is that the   locomotive wheels actually spin faster than the 
locomotive is moving along the rails, an effect   called creep. and the brush makes it obvious why. 
the bristles in contact with the rug are flexing,   making that part of the wheel rim essentially 
longer. so the wheel has to turn faster to make   up for the difference, or in this demo (since the 
brush is static), the rug has to travel a greater   distance for the same amount of rotation. 
i can make this clearer with a bit of tape. with the brake off and no traction, i can pull the 
rug through and mark the length the rug traveled   for half a rotation of the brush. now, with the 
brake on, i can pull the rug through again. and   you see that the rug traveled a longer distance, 
even though the brush rotated the same amount as   before. if we graph the behavior of a wheel across 
these various conditions, you get something like   this. with no traction, there's no slip, and so 
there's also no creep. but as traction goes up,   a bigger part of the contact patch is slipping, 
and so its relative motion to the track,   its creep, goes up. eventually you reach a 
point where the entire contact patch slips,   and the traction force levels off. you can spin 
and spin, but you'll never develop more force. of course, that graph is a theoretical situation 
under ideal conditions. your intuitions might be   saying that a wheel that's fully sliding 
on the rail has less traction than one   that has at least some stick, and you'd 
mostly be right. for lots of materials,   the "dynamic" friction coefficient when 
something is sliding, like my little sled demo,   is less than the coefficient of friction when 
there's no relative movement. that gives rise   to this effect called stick-slip, where 
you get oscillation between sliding and sticking.  a violin bow is a great example: 
the friction from the hairs in the bow stick,   then slide, along the string, causing it 
to vibrate and create beautiful music. on a locomotive, it's less desirable. 
stick-slip can lead to corrugation of   the rail and unwanted noise. it was a 
notorious problem for steam locomotives   because the traction force at the wheel 
rim was always fluctuating. but the other   effect this difference in static versus dynamic 
friction creates is that the traction versus   creep curve in the real world often looks 
more like this. there's a maximum in there,   and if you go past it toward greater 
slip, you get a lot less traction. and that's the trick many modern locomotives 
take advantage of. sophisticated creep control   systems can monitor each wheel individually 
and vary the tractive force to try and stay   at the peak of that curve. eeking out 
a few more percentage points on the   friction coefficient means you can take better 
advantage of your power, and sometimes even   use fewer locomotives than would otherwise be 
required, saving fuel, cost, and wear and tear. all that complexity, and you still might 
be wondering, why all the trouble when you   could just use a different material 
with a higher friction coefficient,   like the rubber tires on cars? and the answer is 
just that everything comes with a tradeoff. some   passenger rail vehicles do use rubber tires, 
and some locomotives have steel "tires" that   can be removed and replaced. but i think 
those f1 tires are a perfect analogy. you   generally use the soft sticky ones when you want 
to gain track position and switch to the harder,   more durable tires to maintain position without 
losing too much time in the pits. but pit stops   for freight trains are pretty expensive. if you 
keep following that logic to more and more durable   tires that can carry multiple tons of weight 
across hundreds of thousands of miles, you just   end up with a steel wheel on a steel rail, and you 
find other ways to get the traction that you need. hopefully, it's clear how important locomotive 
weight is in developing enough friction to pull   an entire train. but the tracks that carry 
the train have to support all that weight,   and that's made even more complicated when 
utilities like water lines have to cross   underneath. i recently spent an entire week 
on a construction site learning exactly how a   water line is installed below railroad tracks 
in a way that can withstand those incredible   forces and go in without interrupting 
any rail traffic in the process. and of course i   documented the whole thing for you. that video 
is part of my practical construction series,   where i go on location to construction sites. 
you can stay tuned for it eventually to come   out on youtube, but if you can't wait 
that long, it's live on nebula right now. i'm sure you've noticed the massive shift in video 
these days, where all the major tv networks are   just running reality shows in place of the stuff 
that used to be really good. almost everything i   watch now is being made by independent producers. 
not having to cater to a bunch of suits in a   major production house who don't care what people 
actually enjoy watching means we have more freedom   to make videos that we're passionate about. 
brian from real engineering, sam from wendover,   scotty from strange parts, integza, and a lot more 
of my favorites all have their content ad-free on   nebula, the streaming platform built by and for 
independent, thoughtful creators, including me. nebula is basically the answer to the 
question of what could happen if the   best channels on youtube didn't have to cater 
to an algorithm. it's just a different model   that changes the incentives and the rewards, 
and it's come so far. it's totally ad-free,   with tons of excellent channels and lots of 
original series and specials that just wouldn't   see the light of day if they were produced 
for youtube where you have to optimize for   clickability. my practical construction series is 
the perfect example. it's written and produced for   people who want a peek into what really happens 
on a construction site. maybe it's a small crowd,   but those are my people, and i want to make 
great videos for them! if you're with me that   independent creators are the future of great 
video, using my link below will get you 40%   off an annual subscription. that's less 
than $3 a month. you won't find any other   streaming platform that cheap, especially 
not one this good. i hope you'll consider   it. that's nebula.tv/practical engineering. thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think!