well this is, i think, possibly the best board game 
ever which is quite a bold claim. many people talk   about this as just the perfect game; it involves 
strategy and a little bit of luck as well because   of the role of the dice. it's a actually a game 
which- people play together, there's talking all   the time, there's trading going on. sometimes 
games suffer because the person playing that   particular turn is the only person really being 
involved and the others are sitting waiting for-   this one involves everyone. this is called the 
settlers of catan. it was created by a german   dentist who also loved board games and it won 
the spiel des jahres which is kind of nobel prize of   gaming in germany. it's the sort of game which 
gets a mathematician immediately excited because   just look at the layout of this board. it's 
hexagons not squares, and hexagons are just such   a beautiful shape and the tessellation of the 
plane using hexagon so as soon as i saw this   game i i was getting very excited. but you'll 
see there are also numbers on here, so let me tell   you a little bit about how you play the game. so 
you'll see there are different sorts of squares;   there's woodland here and woodland will generate a 
different resource of logs. the mine hexagons give   you ore; the pasture hexagons allow you to graze 
sheep; the fields then we can grow some wheat; and   then in the hills you can dig out stuff to make 
bricks. and each of these will allow you to build   different things. now how do you get these? well if 
you own a property and it's on say the corner of   these hexagons; we're going to see which of these 
is going to generate some resources in this turn, and i'm going to throw some dice and i've got 10.
so those areas of land which have the number 10   on them will be generating - in this case 10 
is generating a sheep, so this will generate a   sheep for anybody who's got a property on the the 
corner of this land. but unfortunately i i've not   generated anything because i wanted a 5, 4
and 11. so if i'd been here i would have got some   sheep resources. interestingly, what's the chance 
of getting - for example if i'm here - of getting a   12? unfortunately there's only one way to get a 
12 with two dice which is a 6 and a 6. and   this is what this little dot at the bottom here 
is telling me, that this is actually quite a hard   thing to generate resources from. so is it a good 
idea to put your property here? because there's   only one chance. well look at 6 for example, this 
has got five dots underneath it - why? because well   to get a 6 how many different ways can i get 
a 6? there are five because i can get a 5 and a 1, or a 4 and a 2, or 3 and 
a 3, 2 and a 4, or a 1 and a 5. so   there are five different ways to get a 6; four 
different ways to get a a 5. so these little   dots actually help you to do the probability in 
this game, because let's see. you know the if i   put a property here i've got 1 + 5, 6 plus another 
4, that's 10 kind of different ways the role of   the dice can generate things for me here. um let's 
choose somewhere else and just calculate uh; let's let   let's go here. that w as 10, so here we got 3 + 2 
+ 4 - that's only 9. so this is a less strategic   place to put your property because only 9
out of the 36 different things are going to   generate resources. so this is what you need to 
do when you're playing catan. so a little bit   of mathematical strategy here will help you to 
choose which corners to go on. because you want   to add up those dots cos that's telling you 
the probability, you're going to add up those   probabilities that you're going to generate some 
resources if you put your property there. this   is why a little bit of mathematics can help you to play this game.
- (brady: there must be more to it than)  (just who can crunch the numbers the best though 
to win this game or?)
- well there's actually a lot   of psychology involved, because once you've 
got resources you might have found you've just   generated a lot of sheep, and what are you going 
to do with all these sheep? and you need to start   trading. so that's actually why this game is so 
beautiful because it involves a lot of conversations   and "i'll give- i've got loads of sheep but i 
want some some some logs, will you trade me?"   and there's a little- and that's not determined by 
the game, that's determined by how much you need   something and how much you can see your opponent 
needs things. 
- oh do you have any clay? will you trade   a rock for a clay? 
- but let me talk about another 
mathematical aspect of the game which i think is   rather beautiful. it's not about strategy whilst 
playing the game, but it's about how you set the   game up. because if you notice this is a lot of 
hexagons placed down on the board. and i place   it down in a particular way, we've got the mines 
placed here, there are three mines here. but the   beauty of this game is each time you set it up you 
can lay the hexagons down in a new way each time.   (cos these are like- these are modular)
- they are! so you know we could have set this up such that   this was swapped over. and so actually perhaps 
there's a lot of woodland, you know we could have   a a whole great big forest here. so the numbers 
actually must stay the same, although they can   actually rotate. so i was intrigued about, you 
know, well how many different games are in this   box? you know monopoly you only get one board so 
there's only one game but there are so many games   inside this box because of the permutations you 
can do. so i thought it might be fun with your   numberphile audience just to calculate how many 
different boards there- there can be.
- (the hexagons) (can go- can they go anywhere? is there any rules 
or restrictions?)
- no there are none at all so-   (it sounds like it would be quite easy then)
- it is quite easy but there's a little bit of subtlety   here because obviously- so you'd say okay, how many 
squares are there?
- (well hexagons, how many-) oh my gosh yes, there's like-
- (how many hex-)
- how many hexagons are there?
- (okay: 3, 7, what's) (that 12, 16 - is that 19?)
- 19 and these are called 
hex numbers. so hex numbers go 1, 7, 19 and it's   the number of hexagons you need. you know we 
made- there are expansion of catan, this is the   basic version. little challenge for numberphile 
 viewers: what's the formula for you know   like the a catan board with n layers? there's a 
way you can generate these hex numbers. the hex   number for this board is 19. there are actually 
19 factorial different ways can lay the hexagons   down. so, you know, i can- let's- we can start in the 
middle; there are 19 hexagons, i can put the first   one down there then we we go around in a circle 
and then do this circle. so at first it looks   like there are 19 factorial different games you 
can play in the settlers of catan. but you have   to remember some of these hexagons are actually 
the same because i've got three different hexagons   which are mines. so actually i could have put these 
down like this and the board hasn't really changed.   it means that these three mines can be permuted 
around and i don't really get a new game. so i   need to divide that 19 factorial by 3 factorial 
for the mines. now the other resources, there are   i think 4 - oh no let's see, look, there are 
only 3 of the hills so that's another divide   by 3 factorial. the other ones are all 4
so there are 3 of those, so i need divide by   3 factorial, 3 factorial, 4 factorial, 4
factorial, 4 factorial. and that will give me   the total number of- so let's just add that 
up, make sure that 4 + 4 + 4 -- 12, plus 3,   15 + 3,' and you get- but there are 19. and that's 
because there's actually a little desert. if you   generate the number 7, you'll see that 7
isn't anywhere here, it's the most common throw of   the dice. and so that has a different function in 
the game. so that's given us our 19 hexagons, 19   factorial divided by 3 factorial squared, divided by 
4 factorial cubed. it's the total number of ways   i can lay these hexagons down.
- (what number does that give us?)
- it gives us a very large number   and i think i remember when i calculated it, if 
we played a different game each night ever since   the dinosaurs were around we'd still be playing 
on different boards. so so that's quite a lot of-   in fact let's let's look it up cos i did actually 
calculate it in my new book about games! um here we   go, my little hexagons. there are actually 244 
billion, 432 million,'8 thousand different boards in   that game. actually there is a little few more 
subtleties to this which you have to take   into account. so the way these numbers can be 
laid on the board, actually it's a fixed way but   they can be rotated in six different ways. so 
actually you- you have to multiply up by   another 6. um and then there's another subtlety 
which i haven't talked about which are little   ports that you can land in and they do different 
things in the game which also determine another   few factors more of the way that you can play 
this game. so there are a lot of games contained   in this one single box.
(is catan a game where people debate strategy or?)
- yeah there's a lot of   debate of strategy about where to place your 
properties as you're settling catan. and so   that's important to look at these numbers because 
you want to go places where you're more likely to   be generating resources because of where you've 
placed your properties. um there's also   another part of the game which is laying roads;
so you're interested in in making the longest   road and that wins you things in the game. and so 
again there's an interesting strategy about how   am i actually going to lay roads through this 
tessellation of hexagons? um what's the longest   road that's possible in the settlers of catan?
that's another nice little mathematical challenge.   (professor, you're a mathematician, and you like 
playing games. do you often play games with other mathematicians?)   uh yes because very often people 
who are not mathematicians get wise to the fact   that this guy seems to have some tricks up his 
sleeve and i often find my children stop playing   games where i have a kind of an advantage because 
of my mathematical goggles. but yeah there's   i mean a lot of mathematicians love playing games. 
but i think you'll find that many mathematicians   do not like a game which involves any element of 
chance. they like it to be pure strategy, so games   like chess or the the game of go, chinese game 
of go. intriguingly though, chess originally came   from india and it actually involved dice. so the 
early versions of chess, you would throw a dice in   order to determine which piece you were allowed 
to move. and then the use of dice and gambling   was banned in india and people had to take these 
dice away and then they thought, actually we   can just play this as a pure strategy game. so i 
think people might be surprised to learn - one   of the things i learned when writing this book 
about games - is that actually dice were part   of chess originally. 
- (have you ever played a game 
of chess using that rule? that'd be amazing) yeah i think it's a bit rubbish actually, because you 
know you're really wanting to move your knight and   the the role of the dice is forcing you to move 
the rook. and there's another interesting thing   i discovered about chess, which is it wasn't 
a 2-player game originally but 4-player   game. and actually you can see that in the game that 
survived, because your army consists of two knights,   two bishops, two rooks and the point is that you 
actually captured one of the other players armies   and it became part of your your army and that's 
why you see these doubling up of pieces in the game. (do you know what i would love to know? cos 
i'm not good at chess. i know the rules but)  (i'm not- if i played against magnus carlsen a game 
of chess, where i could move any piece and he could)   (only move pieces determined by dice, who would 
win the game?)
- i think it's a really interesting   experiment, yeah we should set that up and just see 
you know how much of a handicap is it to be forced   to play certain pieces in the game. i think for me 
as well, chess suffers a little bit because anyone   who knows their openings actually has such 
a big advantage. so they can get to a place   in the game, if you don't know your openings you're 
already weak after 11 moves. which is why sometimes   i think if you're playing somebody who's really 
good at chess it's probably good to start in mid   game and start from both armies being in a strong 
position because of a sicilian defense for example.   if you're a fan of games, check out today's 
episode sponsor jane street. they love games.   so much in fact they've even invented one, more 
about that in a sec. jane street's a quantitative   trading firm with offices all around the world,
you can see there. now obviously they're passionate   about solving high stakes, complex problems - it's 
part of their business. they're experts at machine   learning, mathematics, statistics - all that kind of 
stuff. and that problem solving passion extends to   puzzles and games. the team at jan street often 
spend free time playing each other at chess and   go and, yes, even catan! and they created this card 
game called figgie to simulate elements of markets   and trading. it looks pretty cool, something you 
might be into. you can play it online at figgie.com    so why don't you go and have a look at that. 
and while you're there check out jane street as a   place where you might like to work. as you can see 
they've got all sorts of jobs, internships, training   programs available; there's always new stuff coming 
up on the site. check it out janestreet.com or   see the links in the video description. i've 
got the link to jane street and figgie down there. check out more videos with marcus du sautoy. 
you know he's really into games, in fact he's got   a new book out at the moment called around 
the world in 80 games, i'm also going to link   to that in the video description.
- interested as a sculptor and yeah, well what about taking this   atomic shape, the tetrahedron, and and seeing 
what you can build? 
- this was mathematicians   hope that- okay there's some the weird logical 
gidillian sentences which who really cares about